If Hillary Clinton’s expansionist immigration policies were put into effect, the U. S. Muslim population could exceed France’s current Muslim population by the end of a President Clinton’s second term, according to data from Pew Research and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). [The Muslim population of France is reportedly 4. 7 million and the current U. S. Muslim population is roughly 3. 3 million, according to estimates from the Pew Research Center.  Based on the most recent DHS data available, the U. S. permanently resettled roughly 149, 000 migrants from predominantly Muslim countries on green cards in 2014. Yet Clinton has indicated that if she were elected president, she would expand Muslim migration by admitting an additional 65, 000 Syrian refugees during the course of a single fiscal year. Clinton has made no indication that she would limit her proposed Syrian refugee program to one year. Adding Clinton’s 65, 000 Syrian refugees to the approximately 149, 000 Muslim migrants the U. S. resettled on green cards in the course of one year means that Clinton could permanently resettle roughly 214, 000 Muslim migrants in her first year as president. If Clinton were to continue her Syrian refugee program throughout her presidency, she could potentially resettle roughly 1. 7 million Muslim migrants during her first two terms. These projections suggest that after seven years of a Hillary Clinton presidency, the U. S. could have a Muslim population that is larger than France’s current Muslim population of 4. 7 million. These projections are rough estimates, and the population size could be impacted by additional various factors —   including births, deaths, and conversions. Hillary Clinton’s support for open borders is shared by Republican House Speaker Paul Ryan. Ryan has championed policies to expand Muslim migration into the United States. Last year, Ryan voted to increase Muslim migration and fund visas for nearly 300, 000 (permanent and temporary) Muslim migrants in a single year. While polling data shows that his constituents overwhelmingly back proposals to temporarily pause Muslim migration, Ryan has also repeatedly ruled out the possibility of making any cuts to Muslim migration —   insisting that “that’s not who we are,” and that such a proposal is “not reflective of our principles. ” Neither Ryan nor Clinton have explained how importing hundreds of thousands of migrants that come from nations which may hold sentiments that are       tolerance, and   benefits the United States or helps to protect our Western liberal values. Many have warned if the U. S. continues at its current record pace of Muslim migration —  or if   migration politicians, such as Ryan and Clinton, further increase Muslim migration —  the U. S. risks following in Europe’s footsteps. As Sen. Jeff Sessions has previously explained, “It’s an unpleasant, but unavoidable fact that bringing in large unassimilated flows of migrants from the Muslim world creates the conditions possible for radicalisation and extremism to take hold, just like they’re seeing in Europe. ” France’s struggle to curb the spread of Islamic extremism has been well documented. As Time has reported: Some 1, 800 people left France to join ISIS and other militant groups in Iraq and Syria as of May 2015, according to the Soufan Group, a security firm based in New York, citing estimates from the French authorities  …     Jihadist groups find fertile ground for recruitment in France and Belgium due to those states’ staunch secularism “coupled with a sense of marginalization among immigrant communities, especially those from North Africa,” according to the report from the Soufan Group. Almost precisely one year ago, the Paris terror attacks killed 130 people and injured more than 360 others in what was the deadliest day of attacks on French soil since World War II. Last month, the Telegraph reported that “the majority of the ISIL extremist who carried out the November 13 Paris attacks entered Europe  …     [and] slipped through Hungary’s borders while posing as migrants. ” Similarly this summer, 84 people were killed and hundreds were injured in Nice when a Tunisian native mowed down civilians with a   truck as the civilians were watching a fireworks display to celebrate Bastille Day. Multiple reports have also documented a rise in   throughout France, which has pushed French Jews to “flee” in record numbers. As USA Today reported in September: “The number of French Jews immigrating to Israel rose from 1, 900 in 2011 to nearly 8, 000 last year, said Jacques Canet, president of La Victoire, the great synagogue of Paris. He said the country’s 500, 000 to 600, 000 French Jews  —   the third largest Jewish population in the world  —   “feel threatened. ” “Increasingly, Jews in Paris, Marseilles, Toulouse, Sarcelles feel they can’t safely wear a kippah (yarmulke, or skull cap) outside their homes or send their children to public schools, where Muslim children bully Jewish children,” Canet said. A poll by the French Institute of Public Opinion in January showed 43% of France’s Jewish Community are considering a move to Israel, and 51% said they have “been threatened” because they are Jewish. Under current federal policy, Pew projects that the number of Muslims in America will outnumber Jews by 2040 —   however, as projections based on DHS data have suggested, under a President Hillary Clinton, that date could likely come much sooner.