Porn star Kenna James has come out of the closet  —   as a conservative  —   and confirmed to Breitbart News that she is voting for Donald Trump in November. [California’s adult entertainment industry has been somewhat hostile to Trump, partly in reaction to an assertive   plank in the Republican Party’s 2016 platform, which declares porn to be a “public health crisis. ” Trump also signed an   pledge, promising to enforce obscenity laws. (Hillary Clinton did not sign it.)  James, however, is on the Trump train. “I absolutely am voting for Trump,” she said. “I am a conservative. ” James spoke to Breitbart News from her family home in the Midwest, where she is recuperating from an emergency appendectomy. She explained: “I want somebody who is not purely a politician   …     I want someone who I actually feel is going to do what they say. ” She agrees with many of Trump’s views, including low taxes  —   “everybody works for what they have”  —   and opposition to radical Islam. “Not every Muslim is a radical,” she said, “but if push comes to shove, whose side are they going to be on?” Surprisingly, James also shared Trump’s opinion on the porn industry. She said his   pledge did not change her mind about him. “It honestly reinforced my views. Because he’s right   …     He’s not trying to ban porn, he’s trying to make it harder for our youth, people that aren’t of age, to get to it. I agree 100%  —   I don’t make my scenes for    boys. I make them for consenting adults. And it is a problem that needs to be addressed, finally. And, honestly, all it will do is help the industry. ” James was not shy about her opinions about Clinton, either. “Hillary should be under a prison, in my personal opinion   …     After all her email scandals, and lying  —   that is just definitely someone I would prefer not to see in office, running our country. ” She added: “The [porn] industry was widely [for Vermont Sen. Bernie] Sanders for a long time, but I don’t know how many of them switched over   …     I know there are quite a few Trump supporters, but I really don’t hear anybody talking about how they support Hillary. ” She acknowledges that some conservatives are not quite comfortable with Trump, including social conservatives. James, who grew up Catholic but no longer practices a religion, says she is not a part of the “religious right. ” As if to emphasize the point, she confirms that all of her scenes over two years in the industry have been with other women. But James has some socially conservative views, such as on abortion, which she favors only in limited cases: “If you’re doing it as a form of birth control, I very, very much have a problem with it. ” As for Trump’s electoral prospects, James is optimistic about his chances in November  —   provided he makes a few changes in tone. “I really do think he can pull through. I think he’s got to calm down, and stop being so loud and brash   …     But I believe he’s got a really good chance at it. ” Joel B. Pollak is Senior    at Breitbart News. His new book, See No Evil: 19 Hard Truths the Left Can’t Handle, is available from Regnery through Amazon. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.