BEIRUT, Lebanon  —   For 38 straight days, the streets of the northwestern Syrian town of Maarat   had been the scene of protests against the government and the Islamic extremists of the Nusra Front. On Tuesday, they became a scene of carnage, as government warplanes attacked the town’s marketplace, killing dozens of people, according to residents and rescue workers. The attack confirmed the apparent unraveling of a fragile    agreement between Syrian government forces and some armed opposition groups. The attack in Maarat   and a similar one in the nearby town of Kafr Nabl, came several days after the start of a new insurgent offensive in a neighboring province, and a day after the main Syrian opposition group said it would no longer participate in diplomatic discussions in Geneva. The opposition has accused the government of repeatedly violating the partial   and Tuesday’s attacks were seen as a violent end to the relative respite from airstrikes that had lasted nearly two months. Some residents in Maarat   68 miles north of Homs, and in other towns in Syria that had been afforded a modicum of free space, had resumed the street protests that began the uprising against President Bashar   more than five years ago. The recent protests have signaled residents’ opposition to the government that has been bombing them and their distaste for extremists fighting among the rebel groups. As Syrians at home have again raised their voices in protest, insurgent groups have been pressing representatives of the opposition to take a harder line in talks in Geneva, which have produced little progress. The bombings Tuesday were, for many in Syria, the last straw. “We consider it the end of the truce, but we will keep demonstrating,” Anas   an antigovernment activist, said by phone from Maarat  . As the partial   and the political talks crumbled, the goals set out by the United Nations mediator, Staffan de Mistura, and the chief international sponsors of the talks, the United States and Russia, have dissipated. Aid workers have managed to visit some   areas of Syria, but most of the besieged areas have received little of the help they desperately need. The government has continued to remove medical supplies, including nutrition kits to help save people from starvation, from shipments to areas it has under siege, aid officials said. Hopes for an exchange of prisoners have gone unfulfilled. The government has not agreed to discuss a political transition, while the opposition has refused any resolution that would allow Mr. Assad to remain in office, citing the protocols governing the Geneva talks, which call for the establishment of a transitional governing body with full executive powers. Riad Hijab, the head of the High Negotiations Committee representing Syrian opposition groups in Geneva, said Tuesday that his delegation would not participate in “a political process which prolongs the life of this regime. ” The opposition’s decision to pull out of talks in Geneva could be viewed as a win for Russia, Mr. Assad’s chief international backer, which can blame the rebels for the collapse of the talks while continuing the parallel talks it has organized on its own military base in Syria with officially tolerated opposition figures. The breakdown of political negotiations could also be awkward for Saudi Arabia, the main sponsor of the Syrian opposition, as President Obama prepares to visit the Saudi capital this week. Negotiators said the bombings underscored their view that the government was not interested in seeing the talks succeed. “Our decision to postpone our participation in the Geneva talks was taken to highlight the cynicism of the regime in pretending to negotiate while escalating the violence,” Salem   the spokesman for the negotiations committee, said in a statement. “This attack is Assad’s response. The world must not ignore this challenge. ” Stephane Dujarric, the United Nations spokesman in New York, said Tuesday that there had been “an uptick in violence” and that aid agencies had not had satisfactory access to civilians trapped in besieged areas. “We’ve seen an increase in our ability to deliver humanitarian aid,” he said, adding that access was insufficient. “Obviously we need to see less violence and more humanitarian access. ” Videos and photographs that were posted online by residents and rescue workers in Maarat   and Kafr Nabl showed bodies, including some children, strewn about the twisted metal and spilled vegetables of marketplaces. More than 40 people were killed in Maarat   and several more in Kafr Nabl, a town known for its witty protest banners and cartoons. The partial   that appears all but finished did not cover the   Nusra Front or militants of the Islamic State, and the government has reserved the right to attack insurgent groups that cooperate with them. In Maarat     rebels had recently clashed with Nusra Front fighters, igniting the protests.