When Hillary Clinton described half of the Americans supporting Donald Trump as a “basket of deplorables” made up of “racist, sexist, homophobic, xenophobic, Islamophobic” people, she opened herself up to criticism about her own “deplorables”: The repressive regimes that gave millions to the Clinton Foundation, many of those   donations flooding in while Clinton was serving as Secretary of State. [From despots looking to gain legitimacy on the international stage to   oligarchs, Hillary Clinton’s family foundation took money from the worst of the worst and countries with horrific human rights records.  Below is a list of Hillary Clinton’s Deplorables. Algeria donated $250, 000 to $500, 000 to the Clintons, Gays and lesbians found guilty of “homosexual acts” can face imprisonment in Algeria. Hillary Clinton’s State Department chided the north African nation for its human rights violations, but that didn’t stop her family foundation from accepting a major donation from the Algerian Embassy. Saudi Arabia donated up to $50 million to the Clintons, Saudi Arabia’s horrid human rights is no secret. In fact, Hillary Clinton’s Sate Department criticized the Arab nation for its “lack of equal rights for women and children” and said human trafficking and violence against women are “common” in that country. Nevertheless, the Clinton Foundation has accepted tens of millions of dollars from Saudi Arabia over the years.   Russia: Bill Clinton earned $500, 000 for a speech in Moscow paid for by a   bank, As first documented in Clinton Cash, the former president bagged $500, 000 for a single Moscow speech paid for by a Russian investment bank that had ties to the Kremlin. “Why was Bill Clinton taking any money from a bank linked to the Kremlin while his wife was Secretary of State?” asks the New Yorker. Russia is renowned for it’s open hostility to LGBT people. According to Human Rights Watch, Russia’s   propaganda law, passed in 2013, “openly discriminates against LGBT people, legitimizes   violence, and seeks to erase LGBT people from the country’s public life. ” United Arab Emirates donated up to $11. 5 million to the Clintons, The tiny Arab nation was ripped by Hillary Clinton’s State Department for its many human rights abuses, including the government’s interference “with privacy and to restrict civil liberties, including usage of the Internet. ” Despite reports of public floggings and a ban on “all sexual acts outside of heterosexual marriage,” the Clinton Foundation still accepted millions from the UAB. The Nation of Brunei donated $1, 000, 000 to $5, 000, 000 to the Clintons, Hillary Clinton’s troubled charity was taking in millions of dollars in contributions from the nation of Brunei, all while her State Department was citing the tiny Asian country for a multitude of human rights abuses, including, “restrictions on religious freedom exploitation of foreign workers and limitations on freedom of speech, press, assembly   …     and discrimination against women. ” Kuwait donated $5, 000, 000 to $10, 000, 000 to the Clintons, This   nation was also reprimanded by Hillary Clinton’s State department for its various “human rights problems. ” And Kuwait’s policy to imprison gays for up to seven years notwithstanding, the Clinton Foundation still accepted its major donation. Qatar donated $1, 000, 000 to $5, 000, 000 to the Clintons, According to Qatar’s penal code, the penalty for the crime of homosexual sex is up to seven years in prison. The Arab nation also has “continuing human rights concerns,” according to a report released by Hillary Clinton’s State Department. Those human rights restrictions include “freedom of religion   …     trafficking in persons   …     legal, institutional, and cultural discrimination against women limited their participation in society. ” Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson