Dish Network wanted its MTV after all. On Thursday morning, Dish, the satellite TV provider, and Viacom announced that they had struck a multiyear agreement for Dish to continue to carry Viacom’s bundle of television networks, averting a threatened blackout. Dish’s 14 million customers will have uninterrupted access to 18 Viacom channels, including MTV, Nickelodeon and Comedy Central. In addition, select Viacom content will be added to Dish’s Sling TV streaming services, which offer a slimmer bundle of networks starting at $20 a month.   packages for specific genres of programming also are available for an additional monthly fee. Specific terms of the deal were not disclosed. Striking the agreement was especially crucial for Viacom, which has faced several business woes in recent months. The company has reported persistently weak earnings and faced questions over its management. The looming threat that Dish could drop Viacom channels from its service added to the uncertainty about the company’s fate. The announcement that Dish and Viacom had reached an agreement reassured investors, as more than 80 percent of the company’s distribution is now locked up with   deals. In the last year, Viacom has closed   domestic distribution agreements with a series of satellite and cable companies, including ATT, Charter, Frontier, Mediacom and others that represent more than 44 million total subscribers. Viacom’s stock surged with the news. By midday Thursday, Viacom shares were up nearly 10 percent. Shares in Dish Network were about flat. “Today’s renewal, together with several additional affiliate agreements announced over the past year, will enable Viacom to drive growth and deliver better, more engaging viewer experiences for years to come,” Philippe P. Dauman, Viacom’s chief executive, said in a statement. Viacom said that the various distribution deals would fuel growth in the company’s affiliate revenue  —   the money it receives from cable, satellite and other digital distributors  —   in the “solid   ” rates in 2017 and beyond. In February, Viacom set off investor concern when it cut expectations for affiliate revenue growth to the “low    range” for the 2016 fiscal year after previously stating that it would be in the high single digits. Charles W. Ergen, chief executive of Dish, said in a statement that the deal extended a nearly   relationship between the companies. “We appreciate Viacom’s willingness to continue with us on our journey as we work to deliver the best, most innovative television services available,” he said.