At a press conference held in front of Kenosha News, Wisconsin businessman Paul Nehlen demanded that House Speaker Paul Ryan take down his deceptive Wisconsin TV ads, in which Ryan claims he’s trying to keep Islamic terrorists from entering the country.[  Nehlen blasted Paul Ryan for using “open borders blood money” from his globalist donors to fund the ad, which seemed designed to “dupe” Wisconsin voters into thinking that Ryan wants to curb Muslim migration. “I’m here today to discuss Paul Ryan’s latest lie to the people of Wisconsin on behalf of furthering the interests of his donors,” Nehlen said to reporters from one of the biggest newspapers in Wisconsin’s first congressional district. “[Ryan’s] ad is a dishonest disgrace. It flies in the face of everything Ryan has done throughout his lifelong career in Washington. I am here today to call on Ryan to take the TV ad down immediately. ” Nehlen explained that far from working to keep Islamic terrorists out of the country, Ryan voted to expand Islamic migration into the United States. Ryan voted to fund visas for nearly 300, 000 permanent and temporary Muslim migrants in a single year. Nehlen said that Ryan’s decision to “lie” to Wisconsin voters with his new ad is indicative of the disdain Ryan and his donors have for Wisconsin voters. “This   TV ad embodies exactly what Paul Ryan thinks of his Wisconsin constituents. He thinks you’re stupid,” Nehlen said. “He thinks he can betray us time and time again, and we will never catch on. He and his donors share a chuckle at our expense as they spend millions crafting ads to dupe us into   a Congressman who will go right back to Washington and sell out our country and sell out our children’s futures. ” Nehlen said that Ryan’s “dishonest” ads are being paid for by his “open borders blood money”: Reports show that Paul Ryan has nearly $10 million cash on hand to spend on trying to dupe Wisconsin voters. Last week, Ryan had the audacity to send out mailers trying to pretend that he actually cares about securing our border. Make no mistake about it, these ads are funded by Paul Ryan’s open borders blood money. This is the money his donors pour into his campaign as an expression of gratitude for the decades he’s spent trying to dissolve our borders at their requests. Paul Ryan’s open borders blood money is now funding his hawkish border security ads. “I am here today to call on Paul Ryan to take the TV ad down immediately. I am here to tell Paul Ryan to stop the lies,” Nehlen added. “The only thing more disturbing than Paul Ryan’s refusal to secure the border is the extent to which he’s comfortable lying about it to his constituents. ” “If the issue of this election is about refugees, there is no doubt who you should vote for in this election,” Nehlen said. Nehlen explained: Imediately following last year’s terror attacks  …     Ryan sent President Obama a blank check to bring in Islamic refugees. Ryan pushed a proposal, which Sen. Jeff Sessions has said would allow ‘the President to continue to bring in as many refugees as he wants from anywhere in the world.’ [  …    ] The world is on fire with terrorism, yet Paul Ryan’s budget approved 300, 000 visas for migrants from the Muslim world in a single year. And now Ryan has the audacity to come into Wisconsin homes through our televisions and lie to us, and tell us he’s keeping Islamic terrorists out?” Nehlen added. “When Wisconsin voters said we wanted to curb Islamic migration, Paul Ryan smirked, looked down at us, and lectured us about how ‘that’s not who we are.’ Maybe what Ryan meant to say is, ‘that’s not who his donors are.’ “It’s easy for Paul Ryan to put your family at risk when he has an armed guard 24 hours a day,” Nehlen said. “But the average American doesn’t have   armed security, the average American doesn’t live behind walls, we don’t send our children to exclusive schools. But that doesn’t mean we aren’t entitled to live in safe communities, have a secure job, and raise our children in peace. ” Nehlen concluded by noting that “on August 9th, Wisconsin has a historic opportunity to tell Paul Ryan’s donors something they have never heard from Paul Ryan. We can tell them ‘No.’ We can tell them: ‘No, our district and our representation is not for sale.’ ‘No, we won’t hand over our country and our sovereignty to the highest bidder.’ ‘No, we will not tolerate one more death of an innocent American as a result of Paul Ryan’s relentless push for open borders.’ On August 9th, remind Paul Ryan that your one vote counts just as much as the vote of Ryan’s wealthiest globalist donor. ” The campaign provided reporters with a transcript of Nehlen’s prepared remarks, which can be read in full below: I’m Paul Nehlen and I’m running for Congress in the first Congressional District of Wisconsin to take back our district from the global special interests who control Paul Ryan, and to stop Ryan’s betrayal of Wisconsin voters. Paul Ryan is the most open borders,   Street,   member of Congress in either party. Paul Ryan has never worked as hard for his constituents as he’s worked for corporate America. I’m here today to discuss Paul Ryan’s latest lie to the people of Wisconsin on behalf of furthering the interests of his donors. Yesterday, Paul Ryan launched his first television ad for his reelection campaign. In the ad, open borders Ryan says that he is working to keep Islamic terrorists from entering the country. The ad is a dishonest disgrace. It flies in the face of everything Ryan has done throughout his lifelong career in Washington. I am here today to call on Ryan to take the TV ad down immediately. If the issue of this election is about refugees, there is no doubt who you should vote for in this election. Immediately following last year’s terror attacks, what did Speaker Ryan do? Ryan sent President Obama a blank check to bring in Islamic refugees. Ryan pushed a proposal, which Sen. Jeff Sessions has said, would allow “the President to continue to bring in as many refugees as he wants from anywhere in the world. ” And now Ryan has the audacity to come into Wisconsin homes through our televisions and lie to us, and tell us he’s keeping Islamic terrorists out? When Wisconsin voters said we wanted to curb Islamic migration, Paul Ryan smirked, looked down at us, and lectured us about how “that’s not who we are”. Maybe what Ryan meant to say is, that’s not who his donors are. The world is on fire with terrorism, yet Paul Ryan’s budget approved 300, 000 visas for migrants from Muslim world in a single year. It’s easy for Paul Ryan to put your family at risk when he has an armed guard 24 hours a day. But the average American doesn’t have   armed security, the average American doesn’t live behind walls, we don’t send our children to exclusive schools. But that doesn’t mean we aren’t entitled to live in safe communities, have a secure job, and raise our children in peace. Reports show that Paul Ryan has nearly $10 million cash on hand to spend on trying to dupe Wisconsin voters. Last week, Ryan had the audacity to send out mailers trying to pretend that he actually cares about securing our border. Make no mistake about it, these ads are funded by Paul Ryan’s open borders blood money. This is the money his donors pour into his campaign as an expression of gratitude for the decades he’s spent trying to dissolve our borders at their requests. Paul Ryan’s open borders blood money is now funding his hawkish border security ads. I am here today to call on Paul Ryan to take the TV ad down immediately. I am here to tell Paul Ryan to stop the lies. The only thing more disturbing than Paul Ryan’s refusal to secure the border is the extent to which he’s comfortable lying about it to his constituents. This   TV ad embodies exactly what Paul Ryan thinks of his Wisconsin constituents. He thinks you’re stupid. He thinks he can betray us time and time again, and we will never catch on. He and his donors share a chuckle at our expense as they spend millions crafting ads to dupe us into   a Congressman, who will go right back to Washington and sell out our country and sell out our children’s futures. On August 9th, Wisconsin has a historic opportunity to tell Paul Ryan’s donors something they have never heard from Paul Ryan. We can tell them “No. ” We can tell them: “No, our district and our representation is not for sale. ” “No, we won’t hand over our country and our sovereignty to the highest bidder. ” “No, we will not tolerate one more death of an innocent American as a result of Paul Ryan’s relentless push for open borders. ” On August 9th, remind Paul Ryan that your one vote counts just as much as the vote of Ryan’s wealthiest globalist donor.