Sen. Jeff Sessions ( ) suggests that building a wall and enforcing immigration laws are biblical concepts. [During his speech at the “Road to Majority” conference in Washington, D. C. on Friday, Sessions said, “the idea that nations don’t set laws, establish who can and can’t enter, is not biblical in my opinion. ” After joking about how there was a wall built in Jerusalem, Sessions cited the Bible, but didn’t specifically mention presumptive Republican nominee Donald Trump and his plan to build a wall along the southern border with Mexico.  The “Road to Majority” conference is a gathering for conservative activists in Washington, D. C. which is hosted by Concerned Women for America and the Faith  Freedom Coalition. “People don’t feel good about the economy. They don’t feel good about a lot of issues facing us,” Sessions told the conservative activists, referencing polls. “I think the American people are fundamentally correct and I believe it’s right and moral and just and biblical” for there to be a lawful system of immigration. Sessions said when America brings in foreign labor, the poor people have wages drop and job prospects decrease. “It’s hammering good and decent people that need to be able to raise a family,” he added about the increasing immigration numbers. “We just need to have a fair system that gives people and equal opportunity to apply. ” “Jesus talked about the poor a lot and we should think about that  …    in my view, I’ve changed. I’ve supported virtually every trade agreement that’s come forward,” but says he now believes the trade deals aren’t serving the American people effectively. “Our competitors, business allies but economic competitors, they don’t operate in the same way we do,” Sessions explained, saying it’s not a level playing field. He also talked about the importance of the court system and the right to free speech. “Our system was set up to allow public discussion,” of ideas and views, Sessions declared, stressing the need for free debate on the important issues facing the country.