NEW YORK  —   During an exclusive Breitbart News video interview, Juanita Broaddrick, the woman who accused Bill Clinton of raping her twice in a hotel room in 1978, spoke about the lasting effects she says the traumatic experience has had on her. [Watch the video here.   Asked whether she has had nightmares about the alleged rape, Broaddrick replied: “Oh yes. And I’ve had panic attacks probably for the first 15 years after the rape. I had severe panic attacks in the middle of the night. And I still have from being pinned down like that. I still have a horrible fear of being held down. Or being in a closed quarters. You know, closed space. I can’t fly except at the front of an airplane. And just many things like that. I have to sleep with a light on. ” In the newly released segment of the interview with this reporter, filmed in the presidential suite of the historic Watergate Hotel in Washington, D. C, Broaddrick also recounted the scene in the hotel room after she says that Clinton departed. With watery eyes, Broaddrick stated: “Then as soon as he went out the door I ran to the door and locked it because I was frightened that somebody was gonna come in and do something else to me. I mean, this was unheard of. Somebody of his position coming in a room and raping a woman like this. Running for governor. “So I went back and I sat down and I don’t even know how long did I sit there in the same condition trying to figure out what had just happened to me. And then I hear the knock on the door. And that frightens me. Because I think that it’s him or some of his people coming back. But it was Norma because I hadn’t showed up at the meeting. “And I opened the door and I just almost collapsed with her. I mean I just was never so happy to see somebody in all my life. A friendly face. ” Broaddrick, who was a nursing home administrator at the time of the alleged incident, was referring to Norma Rogers, a nurse who had worked for Broaddrick. Broaddrick traveled to Little Rock for an industry convention along with Rogers. The two had shared a room at the city’s Camelot Hotel. In an interview on this reporter’s talk radio program last month, Rogers described what she says she witnessed in that room at Little Rock’s Camelot Hotel 38 years ago. “She was crying,” recalled Rogers of finding Broaddrick immediately after the alleged rape. “And the thing I think I remember most is that her mouth was all swollen up. It was cut.   …     Her pantyhose were all ripped. ” Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio. ” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.