Donald Trump on Friday denied claims from fellow 2016 Republican presidential contender Ted Cruz that Trump’s friends at the National Enquirer and Trump “political henchmen” are behind a story that the Texas senator engaged in several extramarital affairs. [Trump posted a statement on Friday responding to the Cruz accusation:  I have no idea whether or not the cover story about Ted Cruz in this week’s issue of the National Enquirer is true or not, but I had absolutely nothing to do with it, did not know about it, and have not, as yet, read it. Likewise, I have nothing to do with the National Enquirer and unlike Lyin’ Ted Cruz I do not surround myself with political hacks and henchman and then pretend total innocence. Ted Cruz’s problem with the National Enquirer is his and his alone, and while they were right about O. J. Simpson, John Edwards, and many others, I certainly hope they are not right about Lyin’ Ted Cruz. I look forward to spending the week in Wisconsin, winning the Republican nomination and ultimately the Presidency in order to Make America Great Again.  —   Donald J. Trump, Cruz denied accusations of marital infidelity as “garbage” and accused Trump of enlisting “his friends at the National Enquirer and his political henchmen to do his bidding” in a statement issued Friday. Cruz also inferred nefarious timing of the National Enquirer story in a Friday press conference. Trump and Cruz have been locked in an exchange involving the two candidates’ wives since Trump responded to an ad run by Trump opposing Super PAC Make America Awesome. The ad was aimed at Utah mormon women according to PAC founder Liz Mair and used a partially nude modeling shot of Melania Trump. Trump tweeted the day of the March 22 Utah caucus accusing Cruz of running the ad using the shot of his wife. Breitbart News reported on the exchange between the two leading Republican presidential contenders. Cruz noted Friday that the National Enquirer ran it’s story the day after the Trump accusation tweet which used an anonymous source and accused Cruz of having five extramarital affairs. Trump spokeswoman Hope Hicks said of Cruz’s accusation, “There is zero truth to that,” according to Reuters. Follow Michelle Moons on Twitter @MichelleDiana 