In an event that may very well be the spark to the outbreak of Europe’s civil war, a young, beautiful social worker, Alexandra Mezher, 22, was brutally stabbed to death by Muslim migrants at the child migrant centre where she worked. [Swedish towns have become terror hubs. Lawlessness is rampant, violent crimes skyrocket. There is a   state of violence, terror and fear.  Swedish police warn that Stockholm’s main train station is now overrun by migrant teen gangs “stealing and groping girls. ” Hundreds of Muslim migrant youth are living on the streets in Stockholm. They attack security guards at the main station. Police say they sexually assault girls and “slap them in the face when they protest. ” “Gangs of young, male refugees   women and children at a train station in Stockholm, Sweden in recent days, and then robbed and groped them. Some of the migrants, who may be as young as 9, roam the streets day and night, according to Daily Mail. They have been offered help from Swedish Authorities, but have refused it, living in the streets instead. ” Swedish police warn that Stockholm’s main train station has become unsafe after being “taken over. ”  And so a group of Swedes took matters into their own hands. As I predicted for months, the Europeans will either go quietly into the dark, destructive night, or they will fight back. The weak, the scared are hiding in their homes, and then there are the fighters. Europe’s civil war could thus begin, appropriately enough, at a major train station. I say appropriately, because it was at scores of railway stations in Europe that the New Year’s Eve terror attacks took place. Mass sexual attacks, raping and robbing of   women. Christians in Sweden have been warned, in   messages, “convert or die,” with beheadings threatened “We will bomb your rotten corpses afterwards. ” The enemedia is painting it as though “far right hooligans” are going after “Moroccan” or “Somalian” “children. ” These “children” are raping, killing,   seniors, robbing and attacking on a daily basis. The Swedish police have warned that they do not have the resources to deal with the increasing level of violence. The chief of the Swedish army, General Anders Brännström, told men under his command that they could expect to be fighting a war in Europe against skilled opponents “within a few years. ” He is wrong. It will be sooner than that. In Sweden, a country that has not been at war in over 200 years. And even if the Swedish police had the resources, it would hardly matter. The EU, Germany and most Western European governments are supporting the invaders, not their citizens. Police did nothing to protect the victims or stop the attacks on New Year’s Eve. The German government erased the CCTV videos of the mass attacks. Police have fled Muslim mobs at refugee centers. Even now, on Saturday, EU leaders denied a link between the New Year’s Eve mass sexual assaults and the migrant crisis. Yet the attackers were almost all Muslim migrants. In Denmark, a    girl is facing criminal charges for protecting herself against a sexual attack by a Muslim migrant. Every day there are more stories like this  —   mindless savagery is rampant now in Europe. The denial by the media and the political elites continues. And it will continue until the unthinkable happens, when reality drops a MOAB on their fantasy. German police have been advised not to prosecute migrants for crimes. The EU, Merkel et al are blocking reports of this mass invasion of Europe. They have enlisted the clueless clown, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg. They are criminalizing criticism of the marauding Muslim hordes. Dutch cops are policing   migration comments, threatening social media users of “sedition” for opposing government policies. Once a country imposes censorship of the press and of speech, then nothing can be won without violence. What would you do?  For years, the voices of my colleagues and me  —   rational, clear voices  —   were ridiculed and silenced. Now it is too late for reason, and the worst of elements will rise.