A Muslim Twin Falls man arrested over the weekend and charged with sexually assaulting a mentally retarded woman was quoted by local media in June as representative of Muslims opposing “bad things” and bemoaning the fact that the “picture of Muslims is getting worse. ”[As reported by Breitbart News yesterday, Mohammed Hussein Ibraheim Eldai was arrested Saturday and charged Monday in an incident involving a mentally retarded woman.  As local TV station KMVT reported: Court documents say Eldai brought the woman to his house where he made her a drink. She told police Eldai touched her and exposed himself to her while he kept the victim in his bedroom. Police then made contact with Eldai who, according to court documents, admitted to touching and exposing himself to the victim with the intention of having intercourse with her. Officers placed him under arrest and transported him to the Twin Falls County Jail where he is being held on $10, 000 bond. His preliminary hearing is set for August 19th. On June 14, in the wake of the Orlando Pulse nightclub shooting  —   the deadliest Islamist terrorist incident on US soil since    —   the very same TV station KMVT did a piece aiming to put a good face on the local Muslim community. The TV segment and corresponding written piece titled “We do not agree with those people doing bad things” was an attempt to put a positive spin on the local Muslim community. The segment showed an   interview with now jailed Mohammed Hussein Ibraheim Eldai and quoted him as saying: “These bad people they do this stuff in the name of Islam, and Islam doesn’t say it like that,” said Mohammed Hussein Ibraheim Eldai. “Now the picture of Islam is getting worse because, I don’t know. I  …     hope these people are going to give up. ” The positive June piece about Muslims that quoted the now arrested Eldai was hosted by reporter Amy Reid. Reid is the same reporter who was called out by Breitbart News for her dishonest reporting branding those questioning the Muslim refugee influx as racist. Reporter Reid recently did a segment about the local activists supporting the American girl who was raped by three refugee boys in early June. Reid’s story completely ignored the actual substance of the press conference that called on Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton to come to Twin Falls to see the impact of immigration to this local community themselves. Emails to TV station KMVT from Breitbart News about their biased reporting in that story have received no response. The bad publicity resulting from these crimes by Muslims is something that the town’s political leadership clearly wishes to avoid. Activists have accused local politicians of covering up the oral and anal rape of the    girl by the refugee boys. Tuesday, the mayor of Twin Falls turned down an interview request by this reporter, claiming that Breitbart News was “ . ”