Danish police are being stretched by a migrant crime wave in capital Copenhagen as foreign outlaws “flock” to the city in ever greater numbers. [Latest crime figures for 2015 obtained by Danish newspaper MetroXpress reveal that of 2, 633 criminals who went before a judge, 2, 049 were foreigners, some four fifths. This proportion  —   78 per cent  —   is up from 65 per cent eight years ago.  Although crime is low in Denmark compared to many other European countries, it has struggled with problems imported from abroad through Europe’s open borders Schengen agreement. The very nature of migrant crime is more taxing for Danish police officers, as a spokesman for the Copenhagen force, the most   part of the country, said: “We are spending more and more time on it and we have set aside resources to take on foreigners. It’s everything from property crime to robbery, and more organised [crime]. “Every time a foreigner commits a crime, there is additional casework. A foreign shoplifter takes a lot more resources from us than a Dane”. The report states the biggest foreign groups in the crime statistics are now Nigerians and Romanians, such people can except to receive the cold shoulder from the city authorities from now on. Frank Jensen, the Lord Mayor of Copenhagen said of the migrant crime wave: “Foreigners who come to Copenhagen and are accused of crimes are not welcome in our city. It is a worrying development that I will follow in close cooperation with the Copenhagen Police”. A representative of the   migration Danish People’s Party (DF) said the figures were “insane” and that they would be calling for stricter border controls. These latest figures will add credence to the growing view that multiculturalism, and integration of foreigners into Danish society is failing, with migrants consistently being   in negative government statistics despite the best efforts of the state to give them a leg up. Breitbart London reported in March on the massive over representation of migrants in Denmark’s unemployment claimant count. Latest figures from the ministry of employment showed of dependent families in the country  —   where both adults in a relationship are unemployed  —   84 per cent were “  origin” migrants. In Denmark,   non Westerners make up eight per cent of residents. Experts called the phenomenon of migrants on benefits a “large and especially expensive problem” for the state.  