PHILADELPHIA, Pennsylvania  —   While Sen. Bernie Sanders ( ) declared Monday at the Democratic National Convention that “We have got to elect Hillary Clinton,” his supporters  —   who booed him  —   are having none of it. [They are out in force in the streets around the city, marching and demonstrating in the sweltering heat, which hit 91º F in the early afternoon but felt like 102º F with 56% humidity, according to AccuWeather.  Dozens gathered at City Hall, for example, while others marched down Broad Street, and others targeted the convention site itself. Here are the thirteen best protest signs: This sign was brought by activists from Connecticut, who were incensed at the news that thee Democratic National Committee had conspired to help Clinton defeat Sanders in the primary: This sign went into greater detail, adding a new acronym for the DNC: “Dishonest, Nefarious, Corrupt”: This gentleman summed it up with a simple equation: Many protesters felt the entire primary election had been corrupt: Likewise with this protester, who seemed to agree that votes had been stolen: What is particularly endearing about this sign, which calls for Hillary Clinton to be “Berned” (i. e. “burned”) is the slogan on the protester’s  : “peace, love, Bernie for president 2016. ” Several protesters carrying signs threatening to leave the Democratic Party, and borrowing from the recent “#Brexit” from the EU, warned of “#Demexit”: Call this the #NeverHillary faction: One protester decided to play on the “Black Lives Matter” movement to describe Hillary Clinton’s corruption: One sign referred to an actual quote by Hillary Clinton during the Democratic primary debates that “no individual should be too powerful to jail” (obviously, she didn’t mean herself): There is an effort under way among Sanders supporters to reject the nomination of Sen. Tim Kaine ( ) as Hillary Clinton’s running mate, largely because of his support for the   Partnership (TPP) free trade deal. That effort depends on delegates inside the convention hall  —   but has plenty of support beyond it.  Hillary’s hashtag is “#ImWithHer. ” Trump says “I’m with you. ” These protesters weren’t quite prepared to go that far  —   at least, not yet  —   but offered this version: This sign calls the election “rigged” and advises its audience to “give up now”  —   though it’s not clear who should give up, or what they should concede.  And  …     one bonus poster, courtesy of President (then Senator) Barack Obama: Joel B. Pollak is Senior    at Breitbart News. His new book, See No Evil: 19 Hard Truths the Left Can’t Handle, is available from Regnery through Amazon. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.