Cardinal Wilfrid Napier, the outspoken Archbishop of Durban, South Africa, is blasting the   Georgetown University for inviting Planned Parenthood president Cecile Richards to address its faculty and students next month. [Last week Breitbart News reported that Georgetown University’s Lecture Fund has invited Richards to speak on campus, followed by a   question and answer session. The event will be closed to the public, and only “invited” guests and media may attend, as well as those with a Georgetown University identification card.  During Richards’ tenure as president of Planned Parenthood Federation of America (PPFA) the abortion giant has killed more than 2. 8 million unborn babies. In his criticism of Georgetown, Cardinal Napier was responding to a Tweet by   advocate Lila Rose, who observed that by giving Richards a platform for her ideas, the university was thoroughly contradicting “the very tenets it was founded upon. ” . @Georgetown should reject any promotion of abortion, which thoroughly contradicts the very tenets it was founded upon.  —   Lila Rose (@LilaGraceRose) March 6, 2016,  Napier agreed with the critique, noting that today’s crisis in the Catholic Church stems from an unwillingness to teach the faith of the Gospel in its fullness.   @LilaGraceRose If there’s a crisis in the Catholic Church today, it’s the disjuncture between the imperative to live  teach the Gospel,  —   Cardinal Napier (@CardinalNapier) March 6, 2016,  The Cardinal went on to suggest that Georgetown has fallen for the modern secular “obsession” with being broadminded on life issues, meaning an unwillingness to adopt a firm moral position and stick with it, regardless of the consequences.    the obsession to be fair  broadminded on moral  critical life issues. Georgetown’s hosting Cecile Richards is an obvious case!  —   Cardinal Napier (@CardinalNapier) March 6, 2016,  Cardinal Napier ended the conversation by calling the Jesuit authorities at Georgetown to account, with the stinging indictment that they are more committed to “political correctness” than to the Church of Christ. @PAEasy64 That’s the point! Those in authority at Georgetown seem committed to “political correctness” rather than fidelity to the Church!  —   Cardinal Napier (@CardinalNapier) March 6, 2016,  The Catholic Church has worked to ensure that universities bearing the name “Catholic” act in conformity with their religious identity and not provide a microphone to those who stand in opposition to Christian principles. In their 2004 document, “Catholics in Political Life,” the U. S. bishops stated that Catholic institutions should not honor those “who act in defiance of our fundamental moral principles” with “awards, honors or platforms which would suggest support for their actions. ” Though Georgetown vaunts its status as “the oldest Catholic and Jesuit institute of higher learning in the United States,” it has repeatedly come under fire for having sacrificed its integrity and Catholic identity on the altars of the secularism. Follow Thomas D. Williams on Twitter   Follow @   <! [CDATA[! function( d,s, id){var js, fjs=d. getElementsByTagName( s)[0],p= ^