Hunger Games actor Jeffrey Wright praised Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton on Instagram after attending an event hosted by former President Bill Clinton in Brooklyn on Wednesday. [The actor, who played Beetee in three of the franchise’s films and routinely mocks GOP candidates on Twitter, attended a fundraiser at the Brooklyn Bowl bowling alley in Williamsburg. Wright shared an image of the former president preparing to go on stage following a performance by reggae band the Wailers.  The former president made the case for why Hillary “should be the next President of the United States,” the actor wrote of Hillary, who is trailing her rival Sen. Bernie Sanders nationally for the first time, according to a Fox News poll conducted on Monday.  President Clinton at @brooklynbowl preparing to speak as @wailersjamgram play Bob’s ”Could you be loved.” He glances at a note containing the names of others involved in the event  —   polite reminder. Once onstage, notes gone. I wish you had been there last night to hear him articulate why @HillaryClinton should be the next President of the United States. In 45 mins, he ranged from the importance of shaping SCOTUS, to unburdening young people of student loan debt, to the need for policing  prison reform, to the implications of ”establishment,” to Ahmed Hussein, a Bronx deli worker and genuine face of a Muslim in America, who thwarted a pair of   robbers because he considered that, ”I had only had the job for one year.” There were no sound bytes  —   none  —   no pat phrases, no false hopes, no bullshit. Real talk, driving down into the details, ideas launching from the stage like fireworks, while a packed house took it all in mesmerized like on July 4th. As President Obama said two days ago, the Presidency is serious work  —   if you care about our country and its future, I have little doubt that had you heard President Clinton explain, last night, why he’s with her, then you would be, too. #ImWithHer, A photo posted by Jeffrey Wright (@jfreewright) on Feb 18, 2016 at 9:09am PST,  The Fox poll shows Sanders ahead with 47 percent support to Clinton’s 44 percent support. Just a month ago, Hillary was up by 12 points. Wright also shared details from Clinton’s   speech: He glances at a note containing the names of others involved in the event  —   polite reminder. Once onstage, notes gone. I wish you had been there last night to hear him articulate why @HillaryClinton should be the next President of the United States. In 45 mins, he ranged from the importance of shaping SCOTUS, to unburdening young people of student loan debt, to the need for policing  prison reform, to the implications of “establishment  …    ” There were no sound bytes  —   none  —   no pat phrases, no false hopes, no bullshit. Real talk, driving down into the details, ideas launching from the stage like fireworks, while a packed house took it all in mesmerized like on July 4th. Wright then made reference to a statement made by President Obama on Tuesday regarding GOP frontrunner Donald Trump’s White House qualifications. “As President Obama said two days ago, the Presidency is serious work  —   if you care about our country and its future, I have little doubt that had you heard President Clinton explain, last night, why he’s with her, then you would be, too. ” Wright tagged the post “#ImWithHer. ” He also shared a short video clip of Bill Clinton preparing to speak:  President Bill Clinton backstage in Brooklyn  Bob Marley’s @wailersjamgram on stage for @HillaryClinton. #ImWithHer, A video posted by Jeffrey Wright (@jfreewright) on Feb 18, 2016 at 12:25am PST,  The former president headlined a total of three fundraising events in New York on Wednesday, according to CNN. Obama said of Trump on Tuesday, “I continue to believe that Mr. Trump will not be President because I have a lot of faith in the American people. ” Obama added that unlike “hosting a reality television show,” being president is “serious work. ” Trump quickly responded saying Obama “has done such a lousy job as president. ”