Leonardo DiCaprio, Robert De Niro, Julia Roberts and Kendall Jenner are just a few of the celebrities urging Americans to get out and vote on November 8 in a   PSA released Tuesday. [The   clip  —   part of the “Vote your Future” campaign  —   finds Hollywood celebrities asking everyday Americans about which issues are most important to them in this year’s election, and to vote to make their voices heard.   The clip features appearances from Samuel L. Jackson, Jonah Hill, Drake Bell, Rose McGowan, Eva Longoria, Rami Malek, Donald Faison, Edward Norton, Martin Sheen and Moby, who says gun control is one of the issues most important to him. “I sat down with the parents of the children who were killed in Newtown, and I saw a level of grief and emptiness and despair that I couldn’t have even imagined beforehand,” Moby says. Meanwhile, That 70s Show star Wilmer Valderrama says immigration issues is one of the main reasons he’ll be voting this year. “Our community comes here, waves the flag like everybody else, in unity,” Valderrama said. “We take the jobs that people assume don’t exist. And somehow, we’re taking those jobs from people. ” “If you agree with me, vote,” says Modern Family star Sarah Hyland. “Even if you disagree with me, vote. ” The PSA  —   reportedly conceived by Anonymous Content CEO Steve Golin and directed by   directors Alejandro Iñárritu, David O. Russell, Joss Whedon, Tom McCarthy and Armando Bo  —   is the latest in a series of   PSAs released in recent weeks in an effort to encourage Americans to get the polls on Election Day. In September, Avengers director Joss Whedon gathered much of the cast of his superhero franchise  —   including Robert Downey Jr. Scarlett Johansson and Mark Ruffalo  —   for a PSA aimed at discouraging voters from casting a ballot for Republican candidate Donald Trump. The effort was a part of the launch of Whedon’s super PAC Save the Day, which focuses on voter registration.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum