Several cast and crew members from the hit Netflix series Orange is the New Black united to send a message to Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump this weekend: “F*ck you. ”[That’s the message that series star Lea DeLaria (Big Boo) tweeted out on Friday, while she and castmates Taryn Manning (Pennsatucky) Beth Dover (Linda) Julie Lake (Angie) and Emmy Myles (Leanne) posed with several members of the show’s crew while wearing     to express their feelings about the upcoming election.  CAST  CREW OF OITNB SAYS FUCK YOU TRUMP pic. twitter.   —   Lea DeLaria (@realleadelaria) October 14, 2016,  The      read, “Vaginas Against Trump,” an apparent reference to the four women who came forward this week to accuse Trump of sexually assaulting them in the past. The hit Netflix series, currently filming its fifth season, has never shied away from political issues the end of Season 4 saw a shocking death that paid homage to the Black Lives Matter movement. Several cast members have also taken positions on this year’s presidential race. According to Complex, OITNB stars Uzo Aduba, Taylor Schilling, Lea DeLaria and Natasha Lyonne all previously appeared in an ad for the Clinton campaign, while Laverne Cox posed for a picture with the candidate earlier this year.  Very proud to stand among this crowd sharing  #thisiswhatmyrevolutionlookslike #imwithher watch the whole shebang here ” color:#c9c8cd  :   :14px  :17px  :0  :8px overflow:hidden padding:8px 0 7px  :center  :ellipsis  :nowrap”>A video posted by Taylor Schilling (@tayjschilling) on Jul 25, 2016 at 6:26pm PDT,   Get out and vote this election.  Get informed about the issues and vote for our values our future. There’s too much at stake to be silent and when we don’t vote we are silent. If you are not registered to vote.  Register!  #imwithher #hillaryclinton, A photo posted by laverne cox (@lavernecox) on Sep 10, 2016 at 7:55am PDT,  The cast and crew in the picture may have purchased their     from a website that sells them along with mugs and tote bags bearing the same slogan. “We see your sexist, racist, oppressive ways and today we say NO MORE! We stand united with those you consistently devalue and demean,” the group writes on its website. “We know our personal power  —   the power that birthed creation. This power is not to be feared, but demands your respect respect not just for women but for our planet and ALL HUMANS!”   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum