When Beyoncé’s album “Lemonade” was released late Saturday night, it was available only on Tidal, a big win for that subscription streaming service, in which Beyoncé is a part owner. But Tidal’s period of exclusivity appears to be quite short  —   just 24 hours, as the album is expected to be released for sale on iTunes at midnight on Sunday, according to two people briefed on the plans for the release, who, following the usual ironclad rules of secrecy surrounding Beyoncé’s projects, were not authorized to discuss them. Apple declined to comment. A spokeswoman for Beyoncé did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Late Sunday afternoon, Tidal announced that in addition to its streaming version of “Lemonade,” it would be selling a version for download at $17. 99. A Tidal spokesman said that the service would have the exclusive streaming version “in perpetuity. ” Amazon also confirmed that it would soon begin selling both digital and physical versions of the album. The brief window of exclusivity for Tidal reflects the growing complexity and fragmentation of the digital music market. For Beyoncé, whose every move is watched intensely by the music business, releasing an album comes with seemingly irreconcilable pressures regarding, on the one hand, managing her business interests and, on the other, reaching as wide an audience as possible. Adele declined to stream her blockbuster album “25” on any service, and Taylor Swift removed all her albums from Spotify before the release of “1989,” her latest album, which is available on Apple Music, the company’s streaming service. As a partner in Tidal  —   the service that her husband, Jay Z, bought just over a year ago for $56 million and reintroduced as an   alternative to Spotify  —   Beyoncé faced a strong incentive to release the album exclusively through that outlet, to draw attention to the service and attract subscribers to it. Yet with Tidal claiming just three million subscribers, she would risk alienating the vast majority of the online market if she were to keep the album on that service alone for too long. (Spotify has 30 million paying subscribers, and Apple Music has 11 million.) And the extremely brief window for keeping “Lemonade”  —   a   video album whose   companion film had its premiere on HBO on Saturday night  —   restricted to Tidal shows how intense the pressure is for a star of Beyoncé’s stature to reach as many fans as she can. When Tidal was reintroduced to the public last year by Jay Z, a key part of its strategy was to offer exclusive content from a tag team of superstar acts, whose fame and artistic power would draw new consumers. (Tidal also offered   audio than most streaming platforms, as well as a rich video catalog and other benefits like splashy live events.) After months of struggles, including the troubled release of Rihanna’s latest album, “Anti,” which began as a Tidal exclusive, the strategy has seemed to be paying off well lately. In February Tidal released “The Life of Pablo” by Kanye West, another partner, which the company said brought in 250 million streams in just 10 days, and held on to its exclusive for nearly two months. And the last week has been a big one for Tidal. In addition to Beyoncé’s release, the service was the only streaming outlet that had the complete catalog of Prince, who died unexpectedly on Thursday. Those two stars alone are capable of driving an enormous amount of traffic and potential subscribers to Tidal, although the company has not released details on its streaming numbers for either act. For Beyoncé, and for the business closely monitoring her moves, the effect of “Lemonade” was not immediately clear on Sunday. This Friday, a new album is expected by Drake, who has had a close relationship with Apple and for much of the last year released most of his music through Apple Music first, before releasing it more widely after about a week. Exclusivity, it seems, is as flexible as the music business, and its biggest stars, need it to be.