Democratic presidential candidate former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton stated to young voters, “[I]t can’t be just about what we’re going to give to you” and thanked “hotel and casino workers who never wavered” during her speech after winning the Nevada Democratic caucuses on Saturday.  Hillary began by thanking her supporters and volunteers and congratulating her opponent, Senator Bernie Sanders ( ). During this, she remarked, “You turned out in every corner of this state with determination and purpose, hotel and casino workers who never wavered, students with too much debt, and small business owners who never go off the clock, tens of thousands of men and women with kids to raise, bills to pay, and dreams that won’t die, this is your campaign. ” Hillary also said the “vast majority” of her donors gave under $100. She further said, “We look at our country and see so much that isn’t working the way it should. We see grandparents forced to choose between paying rent and buying medicine because a prescription drug company has increased prices 5, 000% overnight. We see   families denied mortgages at nearly three times the rate of white families. We see small towns and rural communities hollowed out by lost jobs and lost hope. We see a rising generation of young people coming of age in a world where opportunity seems out of reach. And worst of all, we see children growing up in poverty or pain or fear. Here in Nevada, a brave young girl told me how scared she is that her parents could be deported. In South Carolina, I met kids trying to learn in crumbling classrooms and neglected communities. And then there’s Flint, Michigan, where children were poisoned by toxic water, just because their governor wanted to save a little money. So, Americans are right to be angry. ” Hillary added, “The truth is, we aren’t a   country. ” And stated, “I have never believed in dividing America between us and them. ” She also said, while talking to young voters, “[I]t can’t be just about what we’re going to give to you. It has to be about what we’re going to build together. ” Follow Ian Hanchett on Twitter @IanHanchett