Target allows men to use the same restrooms as    girls and has made it clear that it would prefer   citizens to enter its stores unarmed. [On April 20, Breitbart News reported that Target released a statement in which they equated opening girls’ restrooms to men as part of “equality. ” The statement said, “Inclusivity is a core belief at Target. It’s something we celebrate. We stand for equality and equity, and strive to make our guests and team members feel accepted, respected and welcomed in our stores and workplaces every day. ”  This means that mothers who take their    daughters shopping after school will need to remember that Target’s policy allows a man to use a stall in the same bathroom as that little girl. It means the    girl washing her hands in the bathroom sink may do so while seeing a    man in the mirror, undoing his pants to use the stall she just used. On top of this, remember that Target has asked   gun owners to enter its stores unarmed. On July 2, 2014, Target interim CEO John Mulligan posted the following announcement for   citizens: As you’ve likely seen in the media, there’s been a debate about whether guests in communities that permit “open carry” should be allowed to bring firearms into Target stores. Our approach has always been to follow local laws, and of course, we will continue to do so. But starting today we will respectfully request that guests not bring firearms to Target —  even in communities where it is permitted by law. The next day, Target PR group manager Molly Snyder explained that Mulligan’s announcement was a request and not an outright prohibition. In other words, Target wants you to be unarmed, but is not demanding it. This is the same Molly Snyder who explained that Target’s new policy of allowing men into girls’ restrooms is really just a public confirmation of a longstanding policy. Snyder said, “It’s just us being very overt in stating it,” according to the Star Tribune. AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.