Tech giant Microsoft has joined fellow “progressive” Silicon Valley companies Google and Twitter, tweeting their support of “those committed to change around the world. ”[Unlike Twitter and Google, Microsoft did not specifically mention the Black Lives Matter movement, however Twitter and Google posted their tweets following the shooting of Alton Sterling and the protests that arose from the incident, Microsoft’s tweet was posted following the murder of 5 police officers in acts of     hatred.  Microsoft’s tweet can be seen below.  We join the millions mourning in Baton Rouge, Falcon Heights, and Dallas and we stand with those committed to change around the world.  —   Microsoft (@Microsoft) July 8, 2016,  Many Twitter users did not take kindly to this tweet, believing it to be extremely offensive following the murder of the police officers. One user, William Baranowski said “How about standing with the DPD officers slaughtered by cowards?” @Microsoft How about standing with the DPD officers slaughtered by cowards?  —   William Baranowski (@WBaranowski) July 8, 2016,  While other users accused Microsoft of supporting the BLM movement with this tweet, many of them criticising the movement and its supporters. @Microsoft And by ”change,” Microsoft is basically saying they still support BLM even though they have killed people tonight.  —   Casey Ryan (@Frozensword14) July 8, 2016,  @Microsoft @satyanadella then call out black lives matter. It’s a fraud https:  .  make a stand, don’t issue empty statements,  —   Joe Sanders (@joesanders33) July 8, 2016,  @Microsoft I am more on the side for Dallas. Since BLM really is not a great group.  —   Burn (@Takeo_26) July 8, 2016,  @Microsoft Are you committed to killing cops? Supporting domestic terrorists like #BLM?  —   Bastardo Verde (@Bastardo_Verde) July 8, 2016,  @Microsoft You better be careful on what ”change” you are committing too. If BLM, then you are getting in danger,  —   Bill (@mrbill665) July 8, 2016,  Perhaps it was just the timing of Microsoft’s tweet that bothered so many people, or perhaps people are tired of liberal tech companies taking stances on political issues and activist groups that they have little knowledge of or no reason to support.  Lucas Nolan is a Journalism and Media student at Dublin Business School and a regular contributor to Breitbart Tech. He can be contacted via Twitter here: @LucasNolan_