ORLANDO, FLORIDA  —   Breitbart News’ tech editor Milo Yiannopoulos isn’t the only gay conservative speaking out about the Democrats’ politicization of the recent jihadist attack on Pulse Nightclub that left at least 49 dead. [Local publisher and entrepreneur Jacob Engels  —   whose East Orlando Post broke stories such as Omar Mateen’s casing of another area gay club  —   made a statement to the press this week looking for other   Central Floridians about the hypocrisy of President Obama and Hillary Clinton. Here is Engel’s statement in full:   I come here today as a longtime Central Florida resident and member of the LGBT community to speak out against the way Sunday’s tragedy at Pulse Nightclub is being used by some in American politics for personal gain. Just as I am not ashamed to tell you that I am a gay man, I’m also not ashamed to tell you that I am a freedom loving conservative. We must place the responsibility of this heinous attack on innocent American’s on Omar Mateen and anyone who aided or abetted him in any way. As a firm believer in the 2nd Amendment, I ask Americans and Floridians to not let politicians use this senseless tragedy as an excuse to further disarm our citizens. To those who think that Hillary Clinton is an ally or friend of the gay community, I implore you to consider the fact that she has taken millions upon millions in donations and speaking fees from oppressive foreign regimes and Islamic countries that regularly commit acts of depravity and violence against gay men and women. Furthermore, her top aide, Huma Abedin, has been linked to a Saudi Arabian group that is currently listed as a funder of terrorism. If Hillary Clinton is truly a friend and ally of the gay community, we call on her to return the millions she and her husband have received from Islamic regimes that perpetrate senseless acts of violence against the gay community each and every day. Finally, I’d like to thank Americans for their show of love and support for the Orlando and Central Florida community. Through this tragedy, we will rise above the turmoil and show the world the resilience and love we have for one another in Central Florida.