One man was killed and three other people were wounded after gunshots broke out Wednesday at a New York City concert venue where rapper T. I. was set to perform. [Police and emergency vehicles rushed to what was a chaotic scene at Irving Plaza in New York City’s Union Square, where a total of four people were shot, one man fatally.  The    man later died at Beth Israel Hospital, NYPD Chief of Detectives William Aubry told NBC New York. Several witnesses posted pictures and video showing the frantic scene inside the club as shot rang out. Gunshots just went off at the T. I concert, never been so scared in my life pic. twitter.   —   Marco (@markygeezy) May 26, 2016,  Among the wounded was    Roland Collins, better known as   rapper Troy Ave. He was on stage performing when a bullet reportedly struck him in the leg. The rapper was rushed to New York Medical Center and is expected to survive. Troy Ave was warming up for the     T. I. who reportedly never took the stage. Representatives for T. I. whose real name is Clifford Joseph Harris Jr. said they were referring all inquiries about the shooting to the NYPD. One bystander,    Liv Hoffman, said she was standing on the balcony in the VIP area when the young lady she was talking to was shot. “The girl next to me was shot point blank, and men picked her up and carried her out,” Hoffman told the AP. “For two to three minutes we still heard firing, still heard shots, we were clutching each other making sure no one was getting hit. ” The shooting reportedly began at around 10:30p. m. Three people shot at 17 Irving Place in Manhattan. Scene safe at this time. Please stay clear of area. More details to follow.  —   NYPD NEWS (@NYPDnews) May 26, 2016,  One man was critically injured, according to Deputy Commissioner Stephen Davis. Video taken by residents in an apartment building across the street from Irving Plaza shows panicked concert goers running out of the front door. “So people escaped after a shootout in the show in New York Irving Plaza,” the caption read in Spanish: URGENTE  —   Así escapaban las personas luego de un tiroteo en pleno show en Nueva York Irving Plaza  pic. twitter.   —   Urgente y Alerta (@urgenteyalerta) May 26, 2016,  Police have not made any arrests have been made in the shooting. An investigation into the incident is ongoing. Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson