Welcome to Breitbart News’s live updates of the 2016 horse race.   —   All times eastern. 9:40: Trump in Wisconsin: Marco Rubio was supposed to be the future of the Republican Party and I beat him by 20 points in Florida. Pretty soon, they are going to say “Trump is the future of the Republican Party. ” 9:35: Trump plans to announce   judges he will potentially appoint to the Supreme Court. 9:30: Clinton reportedly “confident” there will be another debate but says she’s “not negotiating. ” . @chucktodd: Sanders has proposed Sunday evening, April 17th. Are you in? @HillaryClinton: ”I’m not negotiating.” https:  .   —   Monica Alba (@albamonica) April 3, 2016,  Hillary Clinton says she’s ”confident” there will be a debate before the NY primary. Full interview on @MTP tomorrow https:  .   —   Monica Alba (@albamonica) April 3, 2016,  9:06: Trump also says he will be extremely boring as president: “My natural inclination is to win,” Trump said. “And after I win, I will be so presidential that you won’t even recognize me. You’ll be falling asleep, you’ll be so bored. ” 9:05: He also tells the Post that America is headed for a “massive recession” and it’s a “terrible time” to put money in stocks right now: Donald Trump said in an interview that economic conditions are so perilous that the country is headed for a “very massive recession” and that “it’s a terrible time right now” to invest in the stock market, embracing a distinctly gloomy view of the economy that counters mainstream economic forecasts. 9:03: Trump also says he will eliminate the debt in eight years and have top federal employees sign   agreements: Were he to be elected president, Trump said he would want   employees of the federal government to sign legally binding nondisclosure agreements so that staffers couldn’t write insider accounts of what it’s like inside a Trump White House. “When people are chosen by a man to go into government at high levels and then they leave government and they write a book about a man and say a lot of things that were really guarded and personal, I don’t like that,” Trump said. 9:01: In an interview with the Washington Post, Trump refers to himself as the “Lone Ranger. ” Trump said that everyone close to him  —   family, friends, Republican leaders  —   have been urging him to tone down his attacks and reach out to former rivals, both to reassure wary voters and to begin the difficult process of unifying a party in which many have sworn to never back him. Trump does not intend to take the advice. He said such overtures are “overrated. ” [  …    ] “Sometimes you have to break an egg,” Trump said, and Cruz and Kasich were the two remaining eggs. 8:59: Trump to hold Long Island rally at Bethpage. Donald Trump is planning a campaign rally this Wednesday in Bethpage  —   his first on Long Island. The Republican presidential candidate has requested a permit to hold the rally at 6 p. m. Wednesday at Grumman Studios, Nassau County spokesman Brian Nevin said Saturday night. 8:54: Trump says Iraq is the “Harvard” for terrorists after Clinton’s foreign policy at his final Saturday rally in Eau Claire, Wisconsin. He also says he is not a “NATO expert. ” 8:52: Cruz in Wisconsin: He’s got his popcorn @tedcruz is watching #GodsNotDead2 with supporters #WIPrimary #JSPolitics pic. twitter.   —   Karen Herzog (@HerzogJS) April 3, 2016,  8:50: Trump optimistic about North Dakota: Trump adv. Barry Bennett said campaign ”loves” the NDGOP slate, predicts they could nab as many as half, at least 10.  —   Alexandra Jaffe (@ajjaffe) April 2, 2016,  8:45: Sanders campaign wants to debate Clinton on April 17. Scooplet: Sanders campaign is now pushing the morning of Sunday, April 17 for a debate https:  .   —   Sam Frizell (@Sam_Frizell) April 2, 2016,  6:07: Trump asks kids in the audience to raise their hands and promise to never take drugs and “take it easy on alcohol” and “no cigarettes. ” Trump says “you’ll never get hooked” if you never take drugs, alcohol. Trump just asked a group of kids pledge not to take drugs or alcohol. Saying ”that might be the most important thing I did today.” #wielex,  —   WSAW (@WSAW) April 2, 2016,  Trump making kids pledge to never take drugs and ”take it easy on the alcohol.” pic. twitter.   —   Ben Jacobs (@Bencjacobs) April 2, 2016,  6:05: Race is played on Trump’s home turf after Wisconsin: Going to be a real temptation to say Trump is in trouble after Wisconsin. Fact is he’ll likely crush in NY two weeks later.  —   Harry Enten (@ForecasterEnten) April 2, 2016,  6:00: Cruz with six CO delegates: BREAKING: @tedcruz sweeps in CO CD6, now has all 6 of CO’s #RNC2016 delegates allocated so far (37 total incl 3 @cologop) #copolitics,  —   Ernest Lee Luning (@eluning) April 2, 2016,  5:55: Trump says it would be a terrible thing if North Korea and South Korea go to war but “if they do, they do. ” 5:50: Trump says it’s time for people to stop looking at the United States as a place with “stupid leaders. ” 5:32: Trump says he’s running because the country has given him so much and in the good years that he last left, he wants to give something back. 5:30: Trump calls   radio host Charlie Sykes a “whack job” who is neither “smart” nor “talented. ” in Racine Trump notes his weakness in MKE area, says people are getting misinformation from ”these crazy talk show hosts”  —   Craig Gilbert (@WisVoter) April 2, 2016,  5:25: Trump says we are the policemen for the world and many of the countries we protect are “very, very rich” like the Saudis. 5:19: In between campaign stops, Trump caught a segment on Fox News and promptly slammed the network on Twitter: . @FoxNews should be ashamed for allowing experts to explain how to make a nuclear attack!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 2, 2016,  5:17: Trump says “I don’t owe anybody anything” because he is   his campaign. 5:16: Bernie Sanders: ”I don’t eat pizza with a fork, but I eat ice cream with a spoon,”  —   @BernieSanders at Kopp’s Frozen Custard in WI. pic. twitter.   —   Danny Freeman (@DannyEFreeman) April 2, 2016,  5:14: After saying voters should tell candidates to “show me” their   Clinton takes another swipe at Sanders: HRC takes a swipe at Sanders, boasts that she’s been a  Democrat all her life: ”I think that’s kind of important” for choosing a Dem nominee,  —   Monica Alba (@albamonica) April 2, 2016,  5:12: Trump said he met Vince Lombardi once at a restaurant when he was young.  Trump says Lombardi got away with toughness because he won. And that is why “big, strong powerful players” feared him and respected him. Trump says the United States doesn’t win anymore. Trump says we don’t win at war, trade. 5:10: Trump wall shirts behind Trump: Look at the TRUMP WALL   behind Donald Trump! pic. twitter.   —   ** TRUMP ** (@HouseCracka) April 2, 2016,  5:08: In Wausau, Wisconsin, Trump tells supporters to tell the protesters, “we love you over there. ” 5:05: Kasich plays a Bieber song at the end of his rally: ”I happen to like this song, ’Sorry’ by @justinbieber. So everybody take a listen, ok? Here it is!”  —   @JohnKasich https:  .   —   Kailani Koenig (@kailanikm) April 2, 2016,  Kasich keeps his promise and plays Bieber’s ”Sorry” at the end of his rally pic. twitter.   —   Ines de La Cuetara (@InesdLC) April 2, 2016,  4:35: Good news for Cruz in Colorado: News: Ted Cruz sweeps all three delegates elected in CO’s 1st congressional district.  —   Eli Stokols (@EliStokols) April 2, 2016,  4:02: Sanders taking on credit card companies: We have got to stop credit card companies from ripping off the American people by charging   interest rates of 20 or 30 percent.  —   Bernie Sanders (@BernieSanders) April 2, 2016,  3:58: Carson says an open convention where someone other than the person a majority of Republican voters have chosen gets the nomination would be a “holiday” for Democrats because it will be “very hard to consolidate” the party and fracture it. 3:57: On CNN, Dr. Ben Carson says Trump needs to be better at “political speak” on complex issues like abortion. 3:50: Kasich also says an open convention will help Americans learn civics again: Kasich: “When we go to a convention it’s going to be very cool. You’re going to be spending less time with the Biebs”  —   Zeke Miller (@ZekeJMiller) April 2, 2016,  3:20: Palin: “Three reasons to vote for him Wisconsin: 1) Jobs 2) Jobs 3) Jobs. ” 3:15: Trump Admits to Maureen Dowd (Why is he giving her an interview during the primary season? ): It ‘Was a Mistake’ to     Pic: “Yeah, it was a mistake,” he said, sounding a bit chastened. “If I had to do it again, I wouldn’t have sent it. ” Republicans (especially women) really didn’t like Trump’s tweet about Heidi Cruz. pic. twitter.   —   Sahil Kapur (@sahilkapur) April 2, 2016,  3:00: Clinton, who claimed Benghazi occurred because of a Muhammed video, says she doesn’t trust Trump with the military: . @BusinessInsider: “Do you trust Donald Trump with our military?” Hillary: “Of course not. ” https:  . :  .   —   Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) April 2, 2016,  2:45: Trump talks about bringing good jobs back to America and getting companies like Apple making products in the United States again. “Believe me. ” 2:43: Trump on his “cheapo” Wisconsin radio ad: Trump describes the radio ad he cut for Wisconsin as ”a cheapo,” says a guy came to his office, he recorded it there,  —   Jill Colvin (@colvinj) April 2, 2016,  2:40: Trump says the press is doing everything they can to stop his movement. “They hate it” because it’s not the establishment. 2:37: Trump on  : Trump on Europe: “Either they have to pay up for past deficiencies or they have to get out. If it breaks up NATO, it breaks up NATO. ”  —   Reid J. Epstein (@reidepstein) April 2, 2016,  2:35: Melania heading to Wisconsin on Monday: Trump says Melania is coming to Wisconsin Monday to campaign with him.  —   Reid J. Epstein (@reidepstein) April 2, 2016,  2:30: Trump says he can do what’s best for the country because he is not beholden to lobbyists. He says a pollster didn’t give him the idea of a temporary Muslim ban. He says it was just “common sense. ” 2:25: Cruz in North Dakota: ”I am here asking you to stand with us,” @tedcruz tells #NDGOP16 saying the delegates here could decide the outcome of the pres race.  —   Katherine Faulders (@KFaulders) April 2, 2016,  @tedcruz ”I will rein in the EPA  regulators that have descended like locusts upon  …    American business.”  #NDGOP16 pic. twitter.   —   Geoff Simon (@GeoffSimonSays) April 2, 2016,  . @tedcruz says he can imagine Clinton ”tossing and turning” in her jail cell as she worries about @CarlyFiorina.  —   Katherine Faulders (@KFaulders) April 2, 2016,  Sen. Ted Cruz at the North Dakota GOP State Convention. pic. twitter.   —   Chas Neff (@MarisSHS) April 2, 2016,  . @tedcruz Addresses the delegation. #NDGOP16 pic. twitter.   —   ND Republican Party (@NDGOP) April 2, 2016,  Cruz arrives to a standing O pic. twitter.   —   Alexandra Jaffe (@ajjaffe) April 2, 2016,  2:22: Trump is outraged that illegal immigrants are taken care of better than illegal immigrants. 2:20: “Trump’s Angels. ” A    former chainsaw artist started a group called Bikers for Trump to defend him from protesters. https:  .   —   Gideon Resnick (@GideonResnick) April 2, 2016,  2:18: Trump says Christianity is being “chipped at” and we’re being “chipped away. ” He says America has the infrastructure of a   country. 2:15: Cruz now speaking at North Dakota GOP convention: Ted Cruz speaking at the 2016 NDGOP state convention #NDGOP16 #ndpol pic. twitter.   —   Christopher Olson (@chrisolsonnd) April 2, 2016,  2:14: Fiorina in North Dakota for Cruz: ”We need someone to challenge the status quo bc our govt is incompetent and corrupt.” @CarlyFiorina #NDGOP16 pic. twitter.   —   Sarah Isgur Flores (@whignewtons) April 2, 2016,  Cruz does Fargo pic. twitter.   —   Shane Goldmacher (@ShaneGoldmacher) April 2, 2016,  2:07: Trump says his abortion comments to Face the Nation were “so good” and “so perfect. ” He says there is a double standard the media have for him but he is not going to complain. 2:00: Trump says Cruz “totally supports” the   Partnership. He says the worst thing about the deals is that they don’t talk about currency manipulation. 2:00: Trump campaign accusing TN GOP of trying “to steal your vote. ” CALL THE TENNESSEE CHAIRMAIN, RYAN HAYNES at   ! Let him know you support the TRUMP delegates! #Trump2016 pic. twitter.   —   Dan Scavino (@DanScavino) April 2, 2016,  1:59: Trump supporters fighting back against TN GOP establishment over delegate flap: ‘Trust me, there will be a war.’ Dozens of outraged Donald Trump supporters are protesting the state’s Republican Party Saturday, accusing party leaders of attempting to tamp down on support for the GOP presidential   as they move to finalize Tennessee’s delegation to the national convention. The protest comes one day after the Trump campaign accused the party of trying to “steal” delegates, even after he handily won the state’s primary last month. On Saturday, Trump’s backers flocked to the party’s executive committee meeting in Nashville, doubling down on the allegations that officials are trying to stack the Tennessee’s delegation with members likely to vote for another candidate if given the chance. WE ARE BEING LOCKED OUT AT RULES COMITTEE IN NASHVILLE! pic. twitter.   —   TNforTRUMP (@tnfortrump) April 2, 2016,  1:56: Trump says he told Palin he is now realizing how “dishonest” of a business politics is. 1:53: Trump whacks “Lyin’ Ted” for dirty tricks against Ben Carson. 1:52: Trump talks about getting “earned media” and “ ” his campaign. He says he’s controlled by the people and quips that he’s also controlled by Sarah Palin. 1:51: Like at Camp Randall Stadium: RACINE, Wisc.  —   Trump takes the stage to House of Pain’s “Jump Around.”  —   Ashley Parker (@AshleyRParker) April 2, 2016,  1:42: Palin now stumping for Trump in Wisconsin. She says Trump will “win for America” and “will make America great again” because “he’s going to put it in our hands. ” Trump adviser Stephen Miller introducing Palin to the stage calls her the ”incomparable Sarah Palin.”  —   Vaughn Hillyard (@VaughnHillyard) April 2, 2016,  1:40: Miller says this election is a     opportunity to stand up for American jobs and sovereignty. 1:35: Miller blasts politicians for surrendering manufacturing jobs to China, Mexico because “they don’t care about you. ” He says there is no man who has pushed harder to send your jobs overseas than Ted Cruz. He says Cruz will sign the “death warrant” for Wisconsin’s middle class. He blasts Cruz for wanting to give up America’s soul —  its sovereignty —  to support TPP. 1:30: Trump Campaign: Cruz Wanted to Replicate in U. S. Same Conditions in Europe with Uncontrolled Middle East, In Wisconsin, Trump’s Senior Policy Adviser Stephen Miller, a former top aide to Sen. Jeff Sessions ( ) says in 2012, we had an “epic battle over immigration” and Cruz introduced an amendment to increase by 500% the number of   foreign workers coming into America to compete against Americans. Miller says Cruz also introduced an amendment to double the number of Muslim migrants coming into the United States without any regard for how that would affect the security of Americans. Miller says he was happy to “replicate here in the United States the same conditions we have in Germany and Belgium and across Europe with uncontrolled migration from the Middle East. ” “That is the real legacy of Ted Cruz,” Miller says, adding that Trump is the only candidate in the race saying “let’s pause these programs to protect the American people. ” 1:20: Sanders vows his campaign will be honest and will always tell the truth. Gets endorsement from Bon Iver’s Justin Vernon: Justin Vernon of Bon Iver endorses and introduces @BernieSanders in his native Eau Claire, #Wisconsin pic. twitter.   —   MaryAlice Parks (@maryaliceparks) April 2, 2016,  Meanwhile, the cross over between Seinfeld fans and Sanders fans on display in Eau Claire, WI. pic. twitter.   —   Danny Freeman (@DannyEFreeman) April 2, 2016,  1:05: Trump campaign telling supporters to not engage with   agitators in Racine, Wisconsin: Trump campaign tells supporters at Racine rally not to engage with protesters but to notify police @WISN12News pic. twitter.   —   Terry Sater (@noozdude1) April 2, 2016, 