SAN FRANCISCO  —   For over a year and a half, Yahoo has been tormented by a prominent activist investor who has criticized virtually everything about the company, from its business strategy to its efforts to sell major assets. Now that hedge fund, Starboard Value, is finally getting a seat at the embattled Internet company’s table, heading off a potentially distracting fight and perhaps easing the way for a potential sale of its core business. Yahoo said on Wednesday that it had given four director seats to Starboard, ending the activist investor’s campaign to unseat the company’s entire board. One of those seats will go to Starboard’s chief executive, Jeffrey C. Smith, who will also join a special board committee overseeing the company’s sale process. “We look forward to getting started right away and working closely with management and our fellow board members with the common goal of maximizing value for all shareholders,” Mr. Smith said in a statement. The move may let Yahoo focus more on its sales efforts while also quieting one of the company’s biggest and most persistent gadflies, since Starboard must now refrain from public criticism. The company had engaged two sets of bankers over the last several months: some to run defense against Starboard, others to supervise the auction. Giving those seats to Starboard may also remove some additional doubts about the seriousness of Yahoo’s intent in exploring a sale, a process that several people involved have described as messy and confusing. The hedge fund had latched on to those concerns as part of its activism campaign. As part of the settlement, two existing directors will step down, leaving the board at 11 members. Coupled with the two new directors appointed by Yahoo last month, more than half of the company’s board will be new this year. The other new additions to the board are Tor R. Braham, a former technology investment banker at Deutsche Bank Eddy W. Hartenstein, a director of Tribune Publishing and former chief executive of The Los Angeles Times and Richard S. Hill, chairman of Tessera Technologies. At the same time that a settlement has been reached, Yahoo and its board are still combing through the preliminary bids received last week. Among them were proposals from Verizon Communications, seen as the early leader in the sales process, and from investment firms like TPG Capital, Silver Lake and a consortium led by Bain Capital and Vista Equity Partners. Removing Starboard’s threat of a board fight might mean that Yahoo no longer feels compelled to complete its sales process before its next annual shareholder meeting. The agreement with Starboard says Yahoo must hold its meeting by June 30. Still, company executives have expressed confidence in the speed of the process, and Mr. Smith is likely to keep pressing for a timely conclusion. Hopes for a deal have helped lift Yahoo’s stock price more than 11 percent so far this year. But investors largely shrugged off the agreement on Wednesday, and shares closed down 0. 43 percent. For investors, little matters more now than whether Yahoo can find a buyer for its core Internet business, including its huge sports, finance and mail arms. A weak quarterly earnings report last week, in which sales fell 11 percent, underscored the continuing troubles that have plagued the company. Despite its huge presence in the early days of the web, Yahoo has steadily lost ground to newer competitors like Google and Facebook, leaving it to grasp for solutions to turn around its business. A succession of chief executives, the latest being the Google veteran Marissa Mayer, have failed to find an effective answer. That has drawn a number of activist investors over the years that have sought to shake up the company. Before Starboard it was Third Point, the firm run by the billionaire Daniel S. Loeb, who successfully ousted Ms. Mayer’s predecessor and called for the hiring of the Google engineer. But Ms. Mayer’s various initiatives have not panned out. In September 2014, Starboard  —   a roughly    firm with a growing reputation as a successful activist investor  —   emerged, leading with criticism of the company’s strategy. Starboard and Mr. Smith later added criticism of how Yahoo planned to sell its remaining stake in the Alibaba Group of China and, eventually, Ms. Mayer’s overall performance, to their complaints. Little love has been lost between the two sides in the last year and a half, with Ms. Mayer believing Starboard to be a nuisance and disrespectful and Mr. Smith publicly calling for the ouster of Yahoo’s board. The relationship took a further hit last month when Yahoo filled two board seats hours before the company was set to sit down with Starboard. But both sides continued to work on reaching a settlement, which has become more and more common in corporate America as companies and activists alike seek to avoid the expense and uncertainty of running a   proxy fight. While corporate boards initially viewed such   as threats to be fought, they have increasingly opened up and offered director seats to end hostilities. Starboard won seats on Wednesday not only at Yahoo but also at Marvell Technologies, a chip maker that the hedge fund had fought against for only a few months. At Marvell, the activist investor won four board seats and will have a say in the selection of the company’s next chief executive. Some on the receiving end of Starboard’s campaigns have eventually formed cordial relationships with the hedge fund. One of the new Yahoo directors who had been proposed by Starboard, Mr. Hill, was on Tessera’s board when that company battled against the activist investor three years ago. The alternative could be far worse. Starboard, for instance, ousted the entire board of Darden Restaurants, the parent of the Olive Garden chain, after rallying fellow investors unhappy with the company’s financial performance. “This constructive resolution will allow management and the board to keep our focus on our extremely important objectives,” Ms. Mayer said in a statement on Wednesday. “Management is looking forward to working with the entire board, including the new directors, to maximize shareholder value. ” Giving activist investors a role in the boardroom also helps to silence them, since such settlements  —   like the one at Yahoo  —   include nondisparagement clauses that prohibit these firms from publicly criticizing their companies.