A    boy linked to the Islamic State (  ) attempted a “lone cub” attack, trying to kidnap a woman at a mall in Malaysia. [The boy wore an Islamic State head cover as he marched into the mall. Armed with a knife and fake pistol, he attacked a    woman. The Star reports:  Intelligence sources revealed that the young militant, a student at a private religious school, had intended to kidnap her. “He held the woman at knifepoint and initially planned to kidnap her, to show that the terror group truly has a presence in Malaysia. “In the middle of the attack, the suspect surprisingly told the victim to alert the police,” the source said yesterday. The boy had Islamic State books and papers, along with robes, caps, a head cover, and newspaper clippings about the terrorist group. The source said the teenager did not even attempt to escape when the police arrived at the scene. He was arrested and taken to the Kuala Muda district police headquarters. The Islamic State has “influenced” the boy since  . One source said the adolescent wanted to kill   and while he did not succeed, his actions should be taken seriously. “The suspect just wanted to prove a point. What the police have been preparing for and staying vigilant about has finally happened,” explained the source. “Lone wolf attacks can be carried out anywhere and at any time. Thus, it is important to always be prepared with proper intelligence and information. ” Two days ago, the police reported that eight Malaysian children reside in Islamic State training camps across Iraq and Syria. “It is not known where they are being placed right now,” explained Comm Datuk Seri Mohamad Fuzi Harun, the director of the Bukit Aman Special Branch. “Maybe some are in Syria and some are in Iraq. These children were brought in to the   countries by their parents, who are raising them to be IS fighters. ” The Islamic State boasts at least 47 Malaysians among their ranks. “Out of the that figure, 12 are women,” he continued. “Before this, there were 55 of them, but eight have either returned, been arrested or charged accordingly. ” However, Inspector General of Police Tan Sri Khalid Abu Bakar announced there are no Islamic State training camps in Malaysia. “The militant group training camp is not Isis’s training camp but it is found to have expressed its open support for the Isis and this is seen as dangerous,” he declared.