A second student with ties to Texas AM University’s Panhellenic community has been found dead in a fraternity house over the past week. [Medical student Andrew Sutter, 23, was reportedly found dead on a living room couch by a friend, according to reports made available Monday. The Houston Chronicle notes that the student suffered from a   medical condition and was not apparently healthy three days prior to the discovery of the body.  The College Station Police Department’s Criminal Investigation Division ordered an autopsy and has remained mum in the interim. The department did, however, confirm that Sutter was not a member of any specific Greek organization. Sutter’s is the second case this week regarding bodies being found dead on the major Texas university’s Greek row located on North Graham Road. Breitbart Texas previously reported on the death of    Matthew Hayes in the house belonging to Sigma Phi Epsilon on December 7: Members of the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity house called 911 Tuesday evening at about 5:45 p. m. When Brazos County sheriff’s deputies arrived, they found Matthew Hayes   in his bedroom, according to The Eagle. Hayes, a sophomore at Texas AM, was reported to be an engineering student, the local paper noted. Students in the house told deputies they last saw him when he returned from a party the night before around midnight. They believed he had spent the day sleeping. No cause of death was apparent and an autopsy has been ordered. The autopsy was scheduled to be performed by the Travis County Medical Examiner’s Office on Wednesday. Breitbart Texas additionally reported that this was the third student death in the Texas AM Greek community this fall semester: Sigma Nu member Anton Gridnev, 19, was found unresponsive after celebrating his birthday in August. An autopsy later confirmed a drug overdose as the cause of death, according to the local newspaper. An investigation after his death led to the arrest of nine other Sigma Nu members on drug charges. That fraternity has since been suspended by the national Sigma Nu office. The university has not yet released an official statement on the latest matter. Logan Churchwell is the Assistant Editor and a founding member of the Breitbart Texas team. You can follow him on Twitter @LCChurchwell.