NEW YORK, New York  —   Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton failed to show up at her own victory party at the Jacob K. Javits center, while campaign chairman John Podesta spoke after 2:00 a. m. and declined to concede the election. [Despite trailing to Trump   and with the Associated Press already calling Pennsylvania for Donald Trump, Podesta struck a defiant posture, urging Hillary Clinton’s supporters to go home and “get some sleep,” insisting that every vote be counted.  During the third presidential debate, Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump was challenged as to whether he would accept the results of the election if he lost. (He had already answered that question in the affirmative in the first debate.) When he left the question open, Democrats and media critics suggested that his position was a threat to American democracy. Clinton campaign communications director Jennifer Palmieri said at the time: “”How dangerous and frightening is that? It’s certainly unprecedented. It’s certainly disturbing. ” Now, however, the tables have been turned. With virtually no path to victory, Clinton not only refused to concede, but refused to appear. At the Trump victory party at the New York Midtown Hilton, supporters of the Republican nominee booed Podesta and chanted, “Lock her up!” They also chanted “Call it!” at the television screens showing Fox News coverage, as the network waited before declaring Trump the winner of several outstanding states, including Pennsylvania and Michigan. Some sang “God Bless America,” and others jeered, “Na na na na, na na na na, hey hey hey, goodbye!” at the Fox News anchors. While Clinton fans filed out of the Javits Center, there was no sign from the Hilton that Trump supporters would go home before hearing a declaration of victory, and a speech from their presumed  . Joel B. Pollak is Senior    at Breitbart News. His new book, See No Evil: 19 Hard Truths the Left Can’t Handle, is available from Regnery through Amazon. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.