Ntokozo Qwabe, one of the loony, #    behind Oxford University’s Rhodes Must Fall campaign, is causing trouble again. [This time, he invaded a law lecture at University of Cape Town with a bunch of dancing, chanting activists, whipped a smartphone from the hands of a white student who was trying to film him, and then rounded off by complaining about “white violence. ”  Watch the video here. Afterwards he said on his Facebook page: ‘It is NOT true that I ‘assaulted’ and ‘whipped with a stick’ a white student during our shutdown of the arrogant UCT Law Faculty yesterday! Although I wish I’d actually not been a good law abiding citizen  whipped the white apartheid settler colonial entitlement out of the bastard  —   who continued to video record us without our consent  —   this is not what happened as the media is reporting.’ ‘Otherwise, people must please stop annoying us about this petty   invented by the media. While word has it that the instruction to video record us came from the Dean of Law (a whole womxn of colour!) we are klear that we will not be subjected to such white violence. The violent anthropologising of articulations of black pain without black people’s consent is as old as settler colonial domination itself. We refuse to continue operating under the white gaze!’   Earlier this year, Qwabe got similarly excited over another incident in which he’d trampled on white privilege  —   this time by causing a white waitress to cry. To cut the long story short, we are out at Obz Cafe with the said activist, and the time for the bill comes. Our waitress is a white woman. I ask the said activist what the going rate for   is in these shores. They look at me very reluctantly and they say ‘give me the slip, I’ll sort that out’. I give them the slip. They take a pen  slip in a note where the   amount is supposed to be entered. The note reads in bold: “WE WILL GIVE TIP WHEN YOU RETURN THE LAND”. The waitress comes to us with a card machine for the bill to be sorted out. She sees the note  starts shaking. She leaves us  bursts into typical white tears (like why are you crying when all we’ve done is make a kind request? lol! ). Anyways, so this white woman goes to her colleagues who are furious. She exits to cry at the back  a white male colleague of hers reluctantly comes out to address us  to annoy us more with his own white tears telling us that he finds our act “racist”. Before that, he was lucky enough to win a Rhodes Scholarship to study law at Oxford University. Qwabe showed his gratitude for this opportunity by leading a protest campaign to have a statue of Cecil Rhodes  —   the scholarship’s benefactor  —   removed from Oriel College. Though the campaign was unsuccessful, it cost the college millions of pounds in lost donations: former alumni were so disappointed by the college authorities’ pusillanimous response to the   antics of Qwabe and his SJW chums that they could no longer bear to leave bequests to their alma mater. Qwabe has since left Oxford and returned to the University of Cape Town (UCT) where he has made himself extremely unpopular with his fellow students  —   black and white  —   by closing down lectures, destroying and defacing property and terrorising the university authorities. He has caused so much disruption that a local newspaper speculated that his move from Oxford to UCT may be the reason why Oxford recently rose to the top of the international university league tables while UCT dropped 28 places. This would be funnier if Qwabe were not such a dangerous character. Though his views are a minority one, even among black students, his period at Oxford will have given him credibility and cachet, and a career almost certainly beckons at the more radical end of South Africa’s politics. If he ever ends up in government, just imagine the damage that will have been done by whichever idiots   —   almost certainly white liberals  —   were responsible for granting him his Rhodes Scholarship and indulging his vile antics at Oxford.