The nominations for the 23rd annual Screen Actors Guild (SAG) Awards were announced on Wednesday morning, and, as usual, there are some notable snubs and surprises. [Leading the pack across all film categories with four nominations is Manchester by the Sea, further bolstering its steady awards season push. The Kenneth   drama scored three SAG nominations for actors Casey Affleck, Michelle Williams, and Lucas Hedges, and one for the night’s most prestigous prize, Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture (or Best Ensemble).  Barry Jenkins’s gay    drama Moonlight snagged three nominations along with Denzel Washington’s Fences, which earned Washington a Best Actor nomination and his   Viola Davis, a Best Actress nod. Martin Scorsese’s historical drama Silence was completely shut out, following its snubbing earlier this week by the Golden Globes. The   film  —   which stars Andrew Garfield, Adam Driver, and Liam Neeson  —   could still earn awards consideration when Oscar nominations are announced in January. Meanwhile, Captain Fantastic, Florence Foster Jenkins, Hacksaw Ridge, Hidden Figures and La La Land each scored two nominations from the nearly 200, 000 SAG voters, comprised of film, television and other commercial media professionals. The 23rd annual SAG Awards, which will air live on Sunday, January 29 on TNT and TBS at 8:00 p. m. is the first major guild to announce its nods before Oscar nominations balloting begins on January 5. Below is a full list of this year’s nominations, courtesy of Variety. Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Leading Role, Casey Affleck, “Manchester by the Sea” Andrew Garfield, “Hacksaw Ridge” Ryan Gosling, “La La Land” Viggo Mortensen, “Captain Fantastic” Denzel Washington, “Fences” Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Leading Role, Amy Adams, “Arrival” Emily Blunt, “The Girl on the Train” Natalie Portman, “Jackie” Emma Stone, “La La Land” Meryl Streep, “Florence Foster Jenkins” Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Supporting Role, Mahershala Ali, “Moonlight” Jeff Bridges, “Hell or High Water” Hugh Grant, “Florence Foster Jenkins” Lucas Hedges, “Manchester by the Sea” Dev Patel, “Lion” Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Supporting Role, Viola Davis, “Fences” Naomie Harris, “Moonlight” Nicole Kidman, “Lion” Octavia Spencer, “Hidden Figures” Michelle Williams, “Manchester by the Sea” Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture, “Captain Fantastic” “Fences” “Hidden Figures” “Manchester by the Sea” “Moonlight” Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Television Movie or Miniseries, Riz Ahmed, “The Night Of” Sterling K. Brown, “The People v. O. J. Simpson” Bryan Cranston, “All the Way” John Turturro, “The Night Of” Courtney B. Vance, “The People v. O. J. Simpson” Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Television Movie or Miniseries, Bryce Dallas Howard, “Black Mirror” Felicity Huffman, “American Crime” Audra McDonald, “Lady Day at Emerson’s Bar and Grill” Sarah Paulson, “The People v. O. J. Simpson” Kerry Washington, “Confirmation” Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Drama Series, Sterling K. Brown, “This Is Us” Peter Dinklage, “Game of Thrones” John Lithgow, “The Crown” Rami Malek, “Mr. Robot” Kevin Spacey, “House of Cards” Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Drama Series, Millie Bobby Brown, “Stranger Things” Claire Foy, “The Crown” Thandie Newton, “Westworld” Winona Ryder, “Stranger Things” Robin Wright, “House of Cards” Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Comedy Series, Anthony Anderson, “ ” Tituss Burgess, “Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt” Ty Burrell, “Modern Family” William H. Macy, “Shameless” Jeffrey Tambor, “Transparent” Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Comedy Series, Uzo Aduba, “Orange is the New Black” Jane Fonda, “Grace and Frankie” Ellie Kemper, “Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt” Julia   “Veep” Lily Tomlin, “Grace and Frankie” Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Drama Series, “The Crown” “Downton Abbey” “Game of Thrones” “Stranger Things” “Westworld” Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Comedy Series, “The Big Bang Theory” “ ” “Modern Family” “Orange is the New Black” “Veep” Outstanding Action Performance by a Stunt Ensemble in a Comedy or Drama Series, “Game of Thrones” “Marvel’s Daredevil” “Marvel’s Luke Cage” “The Walking Dead” “Westworld” Outstanding Action Performance by a Stunt Ensemble in a Motion Picture, “Captain America: Civil War” “Doctor Strange” “Hacksaw Ridge” “Jason Bourne” “Nocturnal Animals”   Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter @jeromeehudson