A previously deported illegal alien is now facing federal charges after he allegedly killed a Texas fire captain and two of his children. [Following the Texas death of Nevada Volunteer Fire Department Captain Peter Hacking and his two children in a car crash, Margarito Quintero adds a federal charge of illegally   the United States after being deported to his list of state charges, according to a CBSDFW report by L. P. Phillips.  Quintero was charged with criminally negligent homicide in connection with the fatal crash, Breitbart Texas Lana Shadwick reported. The illegal alien who had previously been deported and did not have a license to drive, allegedly crossed the center line of the highway and struck Kacking’s vehicle   killing the fire captain and his children. North Texas John Ratcliffe heard about the case and contacted U. S. Attorney General Loretta Lunch and Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Director Sara Saldana requesting ICE take action against Quintero. “I immediately contacted the Attorney General Loretta Lynch and the ICE Director Sara Saldana and requested that ICE exercise their discretion in placing an immediate detainer on Mr. Quintero” Congressman Ratcliffe told the CBSDFW reporter who first broke the news of Quintero’s illegal status. Quintero now faces a federal charge of illegal reentry according to federal court records obtained by Breitbart Texas. Quintero had been deported from the United States in 2008 after facing criminal charges. It is not known exactly when he   the U. S. Quintero is just one of many criminal illegal aliens who routinely   the U. S. after deportation because our border with Mexico is not secure. On Thursday, Breitbart News’ Katie McHugh reported on another previously deported illegal alien who was charged with murder and kidnapping in New Jersey. Salvadoran national Salomon Rosendo   23, allegedly stabbed a man outside a nightclub and kidnapped a woman following an argument. He was deported from Arizona in 2012, McHugh reported. Earlier this week, Border Patrol agents captured a previously deported sex offender who had been convicted of lewd acts with a child under the age of 14, Breitbart Texas reported. The unidentified Mexican national had been deported in 2009. In March, McHugh reported on the murders of five Missourians who were allegedly killed by Pablo Antonio   a Mexican national who had previously been deported in 2004. In January, Breitbart Texas also reported the arrest of other illegal aliens. One, Efrain   45, was convicted in 1995 in Dallas, Texas on a murder charge and was subsequently deported in 2012. The other, Octavio Mendoza, 42, was a rapist who had been deported in 2005. Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas and is a member of the original Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX.