On March 24th, Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton put in an appearance in Los Angeles that perfectly captured one of the most problematic facets of her checkered public service. Seated next to a prominent Islamic supremacist with longstanding ties to the Muslim Brotherhood, she nodded like a   doll as he dissembled about Islam, fraudulently professed a commitment to “partnership” with law enforcement to prevent radicalization, and criticized those who know better. [Unfortunately, Mrs. Clinton has    been an enthusiastic supporter of those like Muslim Public Affairs Council president Salam   as they seek to dominate their fellow Muslims (notably in places like Egypt, Libya and Syria) and subvert the United States and the rest of the Free World with what the Brothers call “civilization jihad. ”  This serious betrayal of U. S. national interests has surely been encouraged by Clinton’s association with and reliance upon Huma Abedin, a woman with her own,   personal and family ties to the Muslim Brotherhood. Huma’s involvement as a chief lieutenant to Mrs. Clinton going back to Hillary’s days as First Lady has undoubtedly contributed to the latter’s affinity for the organization. The following are illustrative examples of how that affinity translated into action during Mrs. Clinton’s tenure as Secretary of State  —   a period in which she and President Obama sought serially to embrace, legitimate and empower the Muslim Brotherhood:   and his organization have also been closely associated with the Muslim Brotherhood and its “civilization jihad” aimed at promoting sharia in the United States. MPAC was founded by two top Brothers, Hassan and Maher Hathout, and it has worked closely ever since with the   Council on American Islamic Relations, the Islamic Society of North America and other Brotherhood fronts. In the course of the roundtable with Mrs. Clinton and LA’s mayor,   demonstrated his true, Islamic supremacist colors by engaging in classic taqiyya  —   the Islamists’   practice of dissembling for the faith. For example, he selectively quoted from the Quran to differentiate between the teachings of Islam and the practices of the Islamic State. He also promoted such favorite Brotherhood themes as “the mosques are not the centers of radicalization” and that “violent extremism” is the threat, not Islam’s jihadism. For her part, Hillary Clinton used the roundtable to propound the myth that Muslims like   are not given enough “platforms” to disavow jihadism. The real problem, though, is that organizations like MPAC and their spokesmen are given plenty of outlets  —   by the government and the U. S. media  —   but choose not to use them for the purpose of disassociating their community from those who faithfully adhere to sharia and seek to impose it on the rest of us. Of course, given their true purpose  —   Islamic supremacism  —   the   and MPACs cannot authentically do that. After all, like Islamists the world over, they actually share that agenda and are working, albeit through stealthy, “civilization jihadist” means, to secure its triumph here. No    actual or prospective, should be “partnering” with those advancing such a purpose.  