At a Tuesday editorial meeting, CNN president Jeff Zucker exploded on now former CNN contributor Donna Brazile for the “unethical” and “disgusting” secret collusion with the Clinton campaign that got her fired as a CNN contributor, an insider reports. [According to someone familiar with the meeting, Zucker told CNN editors that Brazile’s collusion with the Clinton camp “hurts all of us. ” he went on to add, “I have no tolerance for her behavior or that kind of behavior,” Huffington Post reported.  Brazile’s backdoor collusion was revealed by documents published by WikiLeaks showing the former CNN analyst and then vice chair of the Democrat National Committee had been quietly communicating with Hillary’s staffers to supply them with questions that would be asked of the candidates at some of the Democrat primary debates and CNN town hall events. In one of the emails Brazile sent to the Clinton campaign she noted, “From time to time I get the questions in advance. ” After several such documents were made public, CNN eventually cut ties with the now Democrat National Committee chair. In an October 31 statement, CNN lamented, “We are completely uncomfortable with what we have learned about her interactions with the Clinton campaign while she was a CNN contributor. ” The behind the scenes collusion was so blatant it drove GOP nominee Donald Trump to say he would be sent “to the electric chair” if he had been caught cheating so obviously. However, despite the revelations and the lack of any evidence that the emails revealing Brazile’s actions are false, the DNC operative has continued to deny the charge of collusion. Despite being fired by CNN, in an interview with Fox News, Brazile even insisted, “[A]s far as I know, that, CNN has never provided me with questions, absolutely, ever. ” Brazile also hyperbolically proclaimed that any questions about her behavior is like “Christian persecution. ” And even after the latest revelations, Brazile tried to spin the discussion by criticizing the source of the leaked documents and disparaging them as “stolen” in an effort to discredit the actual charge that she supplied the Clinton campaign with insider information. I did not expect to come out of this unscathed. But I am surprised at the amount of scathing based on stolen hacked emails.  —   Donna Brazile (@donnabrazile) November 1, 2016, None of these denials, though, seem to square with Jeff Zucker’s criticism of Brazile or the fact that CNN has cut all ties with her. Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston or email the author at igcolonel@hotmail. com.