A group called the Black Power Political Organization is apparently taking credit for the Dallas police massacre that has left five officers dead and seven wounded, according to the UK paper The Mirror:[“More Will Be Assassinated In The Coming Days! Do You Like The Work Of Our Assassins? Get Your Own Sniper” read a post on the Black Power Political Organisation Facebook account, It should be stressed that it can not be confirmed whether this group or the Facebook account is actually connected to the Dallas massacre.  The Facebook page of the Black Power Political Organization has been removed, but a cached copy of the page shows that it mentions a number of black liberation groups including the New Black Panther Party, and the Huey P Newton Gun Club, a paramilitary organization that has been doing training in Dallas for several years. One section posted on February 10 reads: Black Power Political Organization  —   BPPO #‎BlackPower! #‎BlackKnights! Our Mission Is To Free Africa And All Black Based Countries From Non Black Control! And Give Black People The Opportunity They Need To Develop Themselves And Reach Their Full Potential! We Are A Powerful Political Group Of Patriotic, Pro Black, Pan African Leaders! Who’s Job Is To Rule And Control Africa, And All Black Based Countries! So To Avoid Corruption, Bribery, Exploitation, Non Black Control And Every Form Of Ailments Preventing Black People And Africa From Reaching It’s Full Potential! To Accomplish Our Goal! We Will Be Working With (Black People Protection Agency AKA “BLACK KNIGHTS”)! A Powerful Group Of Well Trained Professional Sniper Assassins, With Tens Of Thousands Of Assassins Located All Over The World, In Every Country! Who’s Job Is To Hold Government Leaders And Other Powerful People All Over The World Responsible When They Fail To Give Black People Equal Rights And Justice In Their Countries. By Relentlessly Target And Assassinate Government Leaders And Other Powerful Influential People And Their Families, When They Refuse To Do Right By Us Black People! Another entry mentions the Huey P Newton Gun Club, the New Black Panther Party and Minister Louis Farrakhan. While it is unclear where the shootings have anything specifically to do with the groups who are named, the groups seem to share a militant black power ideology that Breitbart News has been covering in detail. Earlier this year, Breitbart News covered an event where members of the Huey P Newton Gun Club showed up carrying long guns to protest against an   group. A standoff between the two groups ended quickly when Dallas police shut down the event after black counter protesters broke through a barricade and tried to attack the group. The New Black Panther Party is a nationally known black power group headed by Dr. Malika Zulu Shabazz that is been involved in protest against the George Zimmerman verdict, was involved in organizing the Ferguson protest, and did it to rallies after the Charleston, South Carolina shooting of nine black church attendees. Just as there are different terrorist groups such as Al Qaeda, ISIS and the Taliban that share a common ideology the various black power groups have different organizations but all share a far left,   ideology that considers the United States a restless, imperialist oppressors state that must be destroyed in order to give minorities “freedom. ” Some of this ideology is embodied by groups such as the Freedom Road Socialist Organization, a group that is in favor of both Chicano   and black determination. One of the founders of Black Lives Matter, Alicia Garza is connected to the Freedom Road Group. Another Black Lives Matter founder, Patrice colors, was mentored under 1960s Weather Underground radical Eric man, who shares the same far left “ ” ideology. The Black Power Political Organization’s website links to the PBS film the Vanguard of the Revolution, a   film that Breitbart News has previously exposed as being full of lies and mythology about the 1960s Black Panther party. The Black Panthers remained a powerful influence on current day black liberation movements and groups such as Black Lives Matter. Among the organizations “liked” by the Black Power Political Organization is George Soros’s Open Societies Foundation.