The “deranged” progressive protesters who attacked GOP presidential candidate Donald Trump’s motorcade and targeted Trump supporters in Minneapolis on Friday night are being protected by Hillary Rodham Clinton, the Democratic nominee for president, former Rep. Michele Bachmann ( ) told Breitbart News exclusively. [Bachmann, who ran for president herself in 2012 and was one of the top conservatives in the U. S. House of Representatives for years before her retirement after last Congress, is a Trump supporter and was at the Trump event in Minneapolis. Bachmann said the protesters were using profanity to verbally harass Trump supporters, spitting on them, and were so much a threat to the community that police officers advised people that they needed to leave through alternative exits.  Bachmann told Breitbart News via text message about the Friday night event: The deranged left was on hand at the Trump event last night in Minneapolis looking for   predictably choreographed trouble. They were swearing at attendees as we arrived, spitting at whomever they could reach. They weren’t protesting as much as they were looking to beat people up. After Donald Trump had our wildly enthusiastic crowd riled up and on our feet with multiple standing ovations, the crowd tried leaving the building. Police officers told us protesters had physically attacked people as they were leaving the building and we were instructed to leave through alternative exits. It was so bad, she said, the   “protesters” were really in her view “  ” who turned into “  . ” She went on: The ‘protestors’ morphed into    and then they became ‘  ’ looking for a  . It was nothing more than  ’s lawlessness and disrespect for decency playing out on the streets of Minneapolis. The only idea the left seems to understand is physical violence used to intimidate political opposition. These brute thugs who attacked Donald Trump’s vehicle demonstrate exactly why we need to elect Donald Trump as our next President of the United States, so we can see respect for the rule of law return again in this country. At one point, too, she saw protesters yelling profanities at police officers —  and she said the experience was “frightening” to those ordinary Americans supporting Donald Trump for president. “The media probably didn’t report it, but these   were running wild back and forth in a frenzy shouting, ‘F —   the police!  F —   the police,’” Bachmann said. “For normal, happy Trump supporting people, it was frightening. Welcome to Hillary’s America. These are the people she protects and rewards. ” Hillary Clinton’s campaign has not responded to a request for comment on whether or not she disavows the actions of the violent protesters in Minneapolis on Friday night. 