WASHINGTON  —   The capital region’s subway system has failed to adequately learn from a series of dangerous and sometimes fatal episodes in recent years, making “little or no progress” toward instituting a culture of safety, the National Transportation Safety Board concluded on Tuesday. The assessment came as the board discussed the findings of a more than yearlong investigation into a fatal instance of smoke filling a tunnel in January 2015. Its conclusion painted the most complete picture to date of the how the aging infrastructure, flawed safety response and inadequate local and federal oversight combined to cause the event, which killed one person and injured 91 others. But the investigation also allowed the board members to express concerns about how the nation’s second busiest subway system has acted  —   or not acted  —   to address prominent safety lapses. “When the N. T. S. B. finds itself issuing a continuous stream of accident reports to address the basic safety management of a single transit rail system, something is fundamentally flawed,” Christopher A. Hart, the board’s chairman, said. “Here, that something is safety oversight. ” The report came as the newly installed managers of the transit agency, known here as Metro, grapple with several   setbacks and continuing funding woes facing the system. The N. T. S. B. members acknowledged that Metro, under that leadership, appeared now to be taking steps in the right direction and offered more than 30 recommendations to the authorities involved in the incident, primarily involving maintenance and safety training. They also renewed their criticism of the Federal Transit Administration, which has overseen the system’s safety since October, arguing that it does not have the ability, the experience or the disciplinary authority to do its job adequately. Instead, Mr. Hart and other board members said, Metro should be reclassified as a commuter rail system and its oversight moved to the   Federal Railroad Administration until authorities here conclude their   efforts to create a federally approved local safety oversight body. That suggestion prompted a response after the meeting from Secretary of Transportation Anthony Foxx, who defended the F. T. A. in a letter released to the board and said it should continue its oversight of Metro. Though many of the investigation’s findings were forecast in a preliminary report in the days after the smoke event and during investigative hearings last June, the final report gave a    account of what went wrong and who was to blame. Investigators concluded that the Jan. 12, 2015, episode was caused by “a prolonged short circuit that consumed power system components” that had been allowed to lapse under “ineffective inspection and maintenance practices. ” Water that contaminated the faulted cable, a dearth of smoke detectors in Metro’s tunnels, ventilation fans that did not work properly, and staff that was not trained in how to use them exacerbated the problem, the N. T. S. B. said. The board also said that city fire and emergency services were not prepared to respond to such an event. “Whatever could go wrong that afternoon did go wrong,” Robert L. Sumwalt, a member of the board, said, while questioning N. T. S. B. investigators. “To quote a Shakespearean play, it was a comedy of errors. Except, it was not funny. ” N. T. S. B. members made frequent comparisons to conclusions reached in a similar investigation after a 2009 train collision that killed nine people near the city’s outskirts. Top Metro officials attended Tuesday’s meeting. Paul J. Wiedefeld, its new general manager, is expected to announce a systemwide maintenance plan in the coming weeks. And on Monday, in advance of the safety board’s report, Metro took steps to address at least one of its concerns, announcing that it would station a fire department official at its operations control center at all times to help coordinate emergency responses.