A baby girl was found in a storm drain after she was ejected from a rollover car crash Friday night. She survived the incident with a small scratch. [Firefighters were shocked to find the    infant in the storm drain after she was ejected from a crash involving an  . The infant’s family was traveling on   near Texarkana, Arkansas, on Friday when the sedan was clipped by the truck causing the vehicle to flip, according to a report by KSLA. The infant was not properly secured in the vehicle.  “There had to be some kind of divine intervention for her to end up being okay,” Texarkana firefighter Josh Moore told the local CBS affiliate. When rescue crews arrived at the scene, they were told the little girl could not be found. They immediately initiated a search —  expecting the worst. “We immediately began searching in the hay,” Moore explained. “A Good Samaritan was already out here searching in the hay and he claimed he heard something in this general direction. ” Eventually the search team moved a layer of hay covering a drain and they discovered the missing child. The infant girl was sitting up on the grate “looking up at us waiting for us to pull her out. ” “She wasn’t screaming, she wasn’t crying, was just sitting there waiting for us,” Texarkana Fire Captain Charlie Smith recalled. He said they found the child sitting up with her hands raised like she was asking to be picked up. “It took three of us to work her around the grate and get her back up through,” the fire captain stated. After being extracted from the drain, the little girl was handed to emergency medical personnel for examination. They were shocked and grateful to find she sustained only a small scratch on her forehead from the incident. “There had to be some kind of divine intervention for her to end up being okay the way she was,” Moore acknowledged. It appears the little girl was thrown about 25 feet through the air after being ejected from the car. “Yeah, a good 25 feet away from this grate right here and end up being okay is just simply amazing,” Moore said. “Up until we heard her, I was just worried about it being more of a recovery rather than a rescue, but once we heard her, it was just a sigh of relief. ” The infant was not the only lucky person in the crash. None of the other four occupants of the car were seriously injured in the rollover crash. All of the occupants were transported to a local hospital for examination. The family had a car seat for the infant, but firefighters confirmed it was not properly installed. They also confirmed the infant was not restrained in the seat at the time of the crash. No citations were issued in connection with the child’s ejection. The driver of the   that reportedly clipped the car causing the crash was cited for an improper and unsafe lane change. Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas. He is a founding member of the Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX.