Pop superstar John Legend showered Michelle and Barack Obama in praise and offered his two cents on the 2016 presidential race in an interview, insisting that GOP White House hopefully Donald Trump has “made it abundantly clear that he’s utterly unqualified to be president. ”[In an interview with the Daily Beast to promote his upcoming film Southside With You  —   about President Obama’s courtship of eventual First Lady Michelle Robinson  —   Legend said that the real estate magnate turned Republican presidential nominee has “made it very clear how his temperament is, how his personality is, what his level of intellectual depth is when it comes to policy, and he’s made it abundantly clear that he’s utterly unqualified to be president  —   no matter what your political views are. ”  “Trump’s been a public personality forever and that’s fine if you want him to be a   host, but if you want him to be president there’s a different standard,” Legend added. “And remember, his entry into being a Republican was questioning the citizenship of the first black president. We know who he is, he’s made it clear who he is, and now it’s time to show up and vote. He never was a winning candidate. ” The     singer served as executive producer on Southside With You. The film, set in the summer of 1989, centers on the story of how    Harvard Law student Barack Obama went about asking Michelle Robinson out on their first date.  Legend, who was an early supporter of President Obama’s White House bid in 2008, celebrated the First Couple, saying, “Just as people, as parents, and as a family, they’ve been a great example —  and an aspirational one for not just people in this country, but people all over the world. ” “For us all to be privy to a film about how that started is pretty cool,” he added. In June, the “Love in the Future” singer compared Trump supporters to those who supported slavery in the 19th century. So, needless to say, Legend is “with” Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton. “I’ve fundraised for Hillary, and I’ll be voting for her,” the musician told the Daily Beast. “I don’t think we should be electing Donald Trump as president and I’m supportive of Hillary’s campaign. ” Southside With You stars Tika Sumpter (Ride Along 2) as Michelle Robinson and Parker Sawyers (Zero Dark Thirty) as Barack Obama. Written and directed by Richard Tanne, the film is set to open in theaters August 25.   Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter @jeromeehudson