U. S. Border Patrol agents arrested a previously deported registered sex offender in southern California after he illegally   the United States. [Agents assigned to the Calexico Station found the illegal alien about seven miles east of the Calexico Port of Entry on Sunday night. The agents observed the man walking northbound from the International Border fence, according to a statement obtained by Breitbart Texas. The agents made contact with the man and determined he had illegally entered the country.  A subsequent records check found the illegal alien, a    Mexican national that Border Patrol officials did not name, had previously been convicted of lewd acts with a child under the age of 14. The statement reported the illegal alien was sentenced to only 270 days in jail for his sexual acts with the child. He was subsequently deported less than 8 months ago on September 30, 2015. “Whether it’s being good members of our community or arresting criminals who pose a threat to our nation’s youth. I am grateful for the work our Border Patrol agents do every day to keep our communities safe,” Assistant Chief Patrol Agent David S. Kim said through the written statement. The previously deported child molester will be criminally prosecuted for illegal   into the U. S. He is being held at the Imperial County jail in El Centro, California. Breitbart Texas reached out to Border Patrol officials to obtain the previously convicted sex offender’s name. Border Patrol spokesman Eduardo Jacobo responded that headquarters policies prohibit the release of that information. Another Mexican national wanted for sexual assault of a child was arrested when he turned himself in to U. S. Customs and Border Protection officers in southern New Mexico over the weekend, Breitbart Texas reported on Monday. Officials confirmed the active warrant for sexual assault of a child and turned the man over to New Mexico State Police who will coordinate extradition to Washington. Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas and is a member of the original Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX.