HAMMOND, Louisiana  —   A Louisiana resident’s response to President Obama’s nondiscrimination memo to flood victims in the region, where he lectured to victims on the issue of racism, is now going viral. [Ben Husser of Hammond, Louisiana, which is about an hour out of Baton Rouge, posted an open letter to Obama on the issue of race, sarcastically saying “Had you not reminded us of this I don’t know what we would have done. ”   “See we rode around in a boat saving people and well race or religion never entered my mind,” Husser wrote. “Not once. It didn’t enter my buddies mind or my wife’s. Just saving people. ” “I understand you may be miss informed because of all the race baiting that the media did a couple months ago here in South Louisiana,” Husser continued. “But I assure you that’s not what we stand for in South Louisiana. We love each other when the times get hard. We look out for our own. Now I know this doesn’t fit your agenda. But facts are facts. ” Husser then asked that Obama remain in Washington, D. C. playing golf and enjoying his last few months in office before lighting into Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton, writing “Let ya buddy Ms Clinton know we don’t need her either. ” “Lord knows she needs rest more then the residents of South Louisiana do,” Husser wrote. “She may could put some of that Clinton foundation blood money to good use down here helping others. ” “If this was a state she needed she would have been on the boat with me. But that’s OK we got this we are strong here in Louisiana,” Husser ended the letter. “Something you will never understand. ” Obama’s Justice Department memo asked flood victims and residents in Louisiana to not be racist in hiring   crews. The memo sparked outrage by Louisiana residents, with U. S. Senate candidate Rob Maness telling Breitbart News “We’re just livid about it. The man ought to apologize to the people of this great state. ” John Binder is a contributor for Breitbart Texas. Follow him on Twitter at @JxhnBinder.