While there was plenty to celebrate artistically this season at the Metropolitan Opera  —   with several acclaimed new productions and memorable star turns  —   the company’s worrying   slump continued. The Met was on track to take in only 66 percent of its potential   revenue through the end of the season on Saturday, company officials said, down slightly from the previous season. (Since some seats are discounted, attendance is projected to be 72 percent.) Some weakness stemmed from factors beyond the Met’s control: Jonas Kaufmann, one of the last bankable stars in opera, withdrew from all his appearances this season, citing illness, and other opera companies are facing struggles of their own. But it is becoming a pattern. It is a daunting house to fill. With 3, 800 seats and 200   places, the Met is far bigger than most European houses, and it gave 225 opera performances this season, more than almost all of its peers. It sold an average of 2, 869 seats per performance  —   more than enough to fill the 2, 256 seats of the Royal Opera House in London or the Vienna State Opera, which can hold 2, 284. What to do? Channeling their inner impresarios, critics and reporters for The New York Times engaged in a little operatic spitballing, throwing out ideas  —   including some that the Met is experimenting with and others it might find off the wall  —   that could help fill the house again. MICHAEL COOPER Court the young, even more. Give operagoers in their teens and twenties not just the best seats at cheap prices but also steep discounts at the intermission bar. Create a club that offers exclusive access to rehearsals, meetings with directors and singers, and trips to performances elsewhere. Give them perks you don’t give your biggest donors. CORINNA da   Granted, this Met season has been unusually narrow: In   71 percent of performances have been of operas by Puccini, Verdi, Donizetti or Rossini. Heavier doses of Gounod, Massenet, Wagner and Strauss make   appear somewhat better balanced, but not enough. While unusual repertory can be a tough sell,   offerings are essential to a sustainable future. The Met should start by edging more often into Eastern Europe: Janacek should appear every year, and Mussorgsky, Prokofiev and Shostakovich deserve more than occasional outings. Then there’s the matter of time. The cavernous theater is a hindrance, admittedly, but Gluck and Handel ought to be mainstays, not rarities. And occasional forays into John Adams, alongside some Muhly and Adès commissions, aren’t nearly enough contemporary work. DAVID ALLEN A few years ago, the president of an opera club at Columbia Law School asked if I would join members for one of their regular lunchtime meetings. When I showed up, to my amazement, there were some 150 students in attendance and an enormous stack of pizzas. The Met should actively assist and encourage clubs for opera lovers with shared interests. The Met could arrange discounted tickets for designated performances and even host receptions for the clubs with special guests, like singers from the young artists program who might perform a couple of arias. ANTHONY TOMMASINI One seemingly simple way to draw bigger crowds: perform when it’s convenient for audiences. While other major opera houses, ballet companies and Broadway shows find that Sunday performances are among their most popular, the Met retains a longstanding    schedule that dates back to the days of strict blue laws. Many operagoers find weeknight performances difficult, especially for operas that last three hours or longer. An 8 p. m. start can be too late for older patrons and suburbanites who face long commutes after the final curtain. But earlier starts are tough for the many people who typically work much later than 5 p. m.  —   especially if they want to be able to eat dinner. Sunday matinees would be simpler for people in both groups and could appeal to operagoers from further afield. Peter Gelb, the Met’s general manager, has suggested adding some Sunday performances, but he will need to win the agreement of the Met’s unions, whose workers often have punishing schedules and who agreed to concessions in their last contracts. And going dark on a weekday would cut into the Met’s   rehearsal schedules. MICHAEL COOPER Every orchestra, it seems, has an artist in residence: In fact, the New York Philharmonic’s this season has been the   Eric Owens. Why not the Met? Planning is tough, of course, but with enough lead time, why couldn’t a singer participate in three (or four, or five) productions over a season, as well as concerts, recitals, lectures? The more audiences know (and love) a performer, the more eager they’ll be to buy tickets to see her. ZACHARY WOOLFE There’s much to be said for the stagione system in use in many European opera houses, in which only one production runs at a time. This makes it easier to instill a sense of urgency in the public: Your chance to see a show is now or never. As a magnet for cultural tourists, some of whom travel to New York to see multiple operas over a few days, the Met is understandably reluctant to do this, and the house is set up to run several productions at once. But it would still make sense to link thematically related works into   that encourage   like a “Lulu”  “Lucia” showdown of madwomen. CORINNA da   One “festival” is already offered by the Met, although it’s a summer of HD screenings on Lincoln Center Plaza. And, admittedly, festivals can be used as tools for both progress and reaction: The New York Philharmonic has its   biennial, but also its Dvorak and Rachmaninoff celebrations. Even so, a festival during the main season  —   done properly  —   would let the Met draw attention to new productions while trotting out old ones, help it build excitement for unusual repertoire and give it an opportunity for collaboration with other,   institutions. Imagine a series looking at the Orpheus myth over time, from Monteverdi to Birtwistle. Or treatments of Shakespeare, balancing Verdi with Barber, Reimann and Adès. Think what could be done for the forgotten Romantics, like Korngold and Schreker. One could even contemplate a pageant of American operas. DAVID ALLEN The holiday presentations of   operas  —   shorter, and in English  —   should be expanded across the season. Consider marketing the occasional matinee of a   opera to families, too, with     rules and affordable snacks at intermission. While you’re at it, take a hint from the New Jersey Symphony Orchestra, which has players hang out at the front of the stage during intermission to take questions from audience members. Send choristers in costume out to the lobbies to pose for selfies. CORINNA da   New Yorkers like to dress up: Get in on the game. The Met should mark the dates of Fashion Week and throw open its doors with gala performances that enforce a strict dress code. Invite a runway star to dress the entire cast of one production, with apologies to the regular costume designer, then auction off the clothes. Don’t let the other Met and its Costume Institute steal all the paparazzi attention. CORINNA da   Why is it that audiences linger after performances at, say, the Park Avenue Armory, while they rush out of the Met? It’s because there’s no comfortable, exciting space at the opera house to sit down, chat, have unexpected  . My idea? Throw out the overpriced, mediocre Grand Tier Restaurant and replace it with something like the Smith, across Broadway: Moderately priced, a little rambunctious and open (including after the opera) for food (that includes both filet mignon and burgers) drinks (that includes both Champagne and beer) and good coffee. ZACHARY WOOLFE The company might select a couple of offerings each season and turn them into citywide cultural collaborations. It’s moving a bit in this direction next season for the company premiere of Kaija Saariaho’s “L’Amour de Loin. ” The Philharmonic will tie performances of Saariaho works at the Park Avenue Armory to the Met run. But couldn’t the two Mets (opera and museum) have worked on an exhibition on Christian troubadours from Aquitaine and religious art from Tripoli, the two locales this   story shifts between? How about asking early music ensembles to perform troubadour songs? How about Verdi’s “Otello,” which returned this spring in time for the 400th anniversary of Shakespeare’s death? Imagine high school English teachers in the city, with the support of the Met, using this run as a chance to compare Shakespeare’s tragedy with Verdi’s opera and then taking students to the free dress rehearsal. ANTHONY TOMMASINI Even in the higher altitudes of the opera house, tickets are still quite expensive  —   especially when it comes to enticing new generations who may be iffy on the whole idea of giving opera a try. On many nights this season, the house seemed to sell out from the top down, with the least expensive tickets disappearing first. Prices currently range from $25 to $480, but the average is $158. 50. The company does have more discounted options than ever  —   there are $25 rush tickets, student ticket offers, “Fridays Under 40” discounts  —   but many of them place the onus on operagoers to figure them out, and some, like rush tickets, require a degree of   flexibility that is hard for people who need to, say, engage babysitters or plan ahead. And costly tickets make it harder for opera fanatics  —   people who not only want to see many different operas each year but also often want to see the same opera more than once, to revel in a favorite singer or compare alternate casts. What to do? Ticket revenues account for an increasingly small percentage of the cost of actually mounting operas. In a perfect world, perhaps a very   donor could be enticed to make a transformational gift that would allow the Met to cut its prices across the board. That would allow fanatics to go more often. More realistically, the Met could use the information available in most ticket purchases  —   perhaps the credit card numbers and email addresses people use when they buy tickets online  —   to offer   operagoers the chance to purchase, say,   tickets anywhere in the house. That could help groom future fanatics. MICHAEL COOPER Create a loyalty app that allows users to check in every time they visit. Add in a   quiz element that rewards close attention  —   to a detail of a character’s costume, a witty translation in the Met titles or a line in the program notes. Award bonus points for arcane trivia, frequent visits and thorny or new works. Make participation the entry requirement for lotteries that offer lavish prizes, like a parterre box for a night, a private dress fitting in the costume department or a chance to shadow a director for a day. CORINNA da   One option that would offend many   opera fans but might entice more newcomers: a little judicious cutting of operas, to make things flow a bit faster onstage and make it easier for audiences with too few hours in the day to find time for opera. Shakespeare’s plays are rarely performed uncut. But in opera, the trend in recent decades has been toward fewer cuts and treating scores as sacrosanct. To get people out at a reasonable hour, many opera companies, including the Met, now have fewer intermissions. Another option would be to cut the operas. The Met sometimes does this for its shortened,   holiday presentations aimed at families, which whittle down works like Mozart’s “The Magic Flute” and Rossini’s “The Barber of Seville” to two hours or less. While some gorgeous music gets left on the   floor, the shortened operas are often among the most popular offerings of the year  —   and draw quite a few adults who are unaccompanied by children. MICHAEL COOPER After years of illness and cancellations, James Levine, the Met’s longtime music director, has finally retired. Now, the company has a chance to nab a vibrant replacement who has technical chops, intriguing ideas about repertory, a taste for the new and a connection to the city and its cultural life. I’m thinking of the kind of leader you might see on a night off at National Sawdust or even Terminal 5. ZACHARY WOOLFE