Leftist students at Clemson University have set up an ‘  Event Committee’ in anticipation of Milo Yiannopoulos’s talk at the university next Tuesday as part of his Dangerous Faggot Tour, according to audio evidence obtained by an undercover student reporter. [The undercover student reporter, Caleb Ecarma, embedded himself in the group for several weeks, getting to know the key players who he names in his piece for Breitbart here.  According to the audio recordings, the committee is composed of students as well as a university philosophy professor, Todd May, whilst organisers behind the committee are rather ironically named “The Clemson Chapter of Students for a Democratic Society. ” The alleged objective of the committee is to coordinate a large protest against Milo’s talk at the university, with undercover audio recorded suggesting the chapter are enlisting the support of university communications professor Chenjerai Kumanyika, who is also the  leader of a Black Lives Matter   movement, to organise the protest.  “Okay, so we’re going to have, like, an event planning committee that’s just going to, like, organize around this Milo thing, so we can work together,” a girl can be heard saying in the recording. “I don’t think anyone likes Milo, except conservatives who want to use him as their token gay person,” she claims. Some of the groups invited to participate in the protest include the Black Lives Matter   movement See The Stripes, the Clemson Feminist Club, as well as the Sexuality and Gender Alliance. However, students at Clemson University have been planning protests since August, with students demanding that the event be “shut down,” as it is nothing more than a “white power rally. ” “We don’t need any more racist, sexist, xenophobic bigots here at Clemson. We already have enough. I’ve already begun the protest planning —  drums, whistles, posters, and chants,” another person said at the time. You can follow Ben Kew on Facebook, on Twitter at @ben_kew, or email him at bkew@breitbart. com 