An abortionist who was found last October to have containers of human tissue, abortion equipment, and narcotics in his car is being formally charged following a police investigation that hypothesized Michael Arthur Roth, 74, was performing illegal abortions. [According to a press release from the office of Michigan Attorney General Bill Schuette, Roth  —   a West Bloomfield abortionist  —   has been formally charged with, “intent to deliver schedule 2 narcotic Fentanyl, and 6 counts of identity theft in the 48th District Court. In the 38th District Court in Eastpointe, Roth also faces 3 counts of Larceny in a Building. ”  “The charges follow a September 2015 car accident where the drugs, as well as   material, were discovered in Roth’s vehicle,” the press release states. “Dr. Roth’s actions jeopardized the safety of Michigan’s healthcare system,” said Schuette. “His attempt to break the law at the expense of his patient’s safety is not only illegal, but goes against the code he took upon becoming a doctor. ” Schuette’s office states Roth was arraigned in 48th District Court in Oakland County and assigned a $10, 000 personal recognizance bond. He must appear next for a   conference in front of Judge Marc Barron on July 7. Additionally, Roth was arraigned in the 38th District Court in Eastpointe and assigned a $10, 000 personal recognizance bond and must next appear in court on July 12 for a   conference. As Breitbart News reported in October of 2015, when police investigators discovered the contents of Roth’s car, they hypothesized he had been performing illegal abortions in the trunk. The discovery of the contents of Roth’s trunk came about haphazardly. Roth had hit a child with special needs, who was critically injured in the accident. After police impounded and searched his car they found evidence of “six prescriptions for Ciprofloxacin, a common antibiotic used with abortion procedures, which was allegedly written by Dr. Angel Ojeda, a doctor who runs the Eastland Women’s Center in Eastpointe, Michigan,” the press release states. “The clinic’s primary focus is terminating pregnancies. Officers also found vials of Fentanyl, a drug commonly used as a sedative during termination procedures, as well as containers of   material. ” The statement continues: Medical records indicate that Roth sometimes worked out of Dr. Ojeda’s clinic. Dr. Ojeda and the women whose names were listed on the prescriptions alleged they had no knowledge of the prescriptions. Dr. Ojeda also stated that a large amount of Fentanyl was stolen from his office in December 2014. When interviewed, Ojeda stated he had never given Roth permission to have Fentanyl or Ciprofloxacin from his clinic, a statement which was corroborated by a clinic employee. A separate medical assistant employed at the Eastland Women’s Center allegedly admitted to stealing medical equipment and medications used in abortions from the clinic for Roth and that he was fully aware the materials were stolen. A search warrant was completed on Roth’s home and office. Additional vials of Fentanyl were found at the home. Both the Fentanyl found in the car and in the house were matched to the Fentanyl that was allegedly stolen from the women’s clinic. The search warrant also revealed a large amount of cash with names and what is believed to be pregnancy information attached to each bundle of cash, medical materials such as syringes, disposable scalpels and empty containers similar to the ones filled with   material found in Roth’s car. Investigators from the attorney general’s office spoke “with a woman who alleged that in the late 1990’s Dr. Roth performed an abortion on two separate occasions in her residence,” the statement adds. According to AbortionDocs. org, Roth’s abortion business is called the Novi Laser and Aesthetic Center.