Following the November arson attack against a black church in Mississippi, several mainstream media outlets attempted to paint the crime as a   attack by a Donald Trump supporter.  The perpetrators who set the Hopewell M. B. Church in MS on fire must be brought to justice. This kind of hate has no place in America.    —   Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) November 3, 2016,  “Burning a black church is a political act”  —   Vox, Vox Media, the same news outlet which has officially banned employees from “mansplaining,” falsely labelled popular Trump supporters as   and whose popular   commentator Ezra Klein was seen by the Clinton Campaign as an attack dog to “hold journalists accountable,” pulled out all the stops in their attempt to make the Mississippi church arson attack seem like a racist crime from the right. “The message   on the burned bricks is drawing attention to a history of racist violence that has been amplified over the course of the 2016 presidential campaign,” claimed Vox’s Victoria M. Massie in her piece. “Black churches have always been about more than spirituality. For generations, black churches have served as sources of refuge from and resistance to the racism pervading America’s Christian pulpits. ” Adding that the “Threat of violent voter intimidation has become a cornerstone of the 2016 election,” and “Trump’s supporters are welcoming the confrontation,” Massie concluded by claiming that though a suspect was yet unidentified, “it’s still clear that this small church in Mississippi is the latest symbol of some of the country’s worst fears about the threats of violence looming over this year’s presidential election. ” The article has not been updated following the recent revelation that the attack was not political. “Authorities Suspect Voter Intimidation in Burning, Vandalism of Mississippi Church”  —   Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC) The SPLC, a   hate crime watchdog, posted the incident in their “hatewatch” section despite the lack of details surrounding the suspect and his motive. “A black church in the Mississippi Delta was burned and vandalized with   graffiti in what law enforcement is now calling an attempt at voter intimidation,” wrote the SPLC in their filed case, though it was the comments section that really showed the dangerous effect of narrative manipulation in the mainstream media. The SPLC is the same group that features the American Family Association, Info Wars’ Alex Jones, and Breitbart contributors David Horowitz and Pamela Geller in their list of “extremists” alongside the Aryan Brotherhood, Black Panthers, and the Ku Klux Klan. This isn’t the SPLC’s first example of promoting fake news. It’s most recent failure was when it labeled Black Lives   assassinations of police officers and jihadist terrorist attacks as “  terrorist plots. ”