Christian Rickers, executive director of the Trumpocrats PAC, joined SiriusXM host Alex Marlow on Monday’s Breitbart News Daily to talk about Donald Trump’s election and the future of his movement. [“We said all along that turnout among the black community was going to be less than it was for Obama. The same thing with young people, saying it was going to be less than Obama,” Rickers said. “The intensity was very high on our side, and we were having a lot of Democrats switch over. So I thought that was a recipe all along for him pulling it out, and nobody else said it. ”  He noted the mainstream media were not particularly interested when he said it, either, thanking Breitbart News for the kind of coverage the Trumpocrats could not get from MSM outlets. When Marlow asked where the Trumpocrats go from here, Rickers replied, “We’re gonna keep it going, We’re gonna give Democrats a place to support and organize around policies that Donald Trump supports. ”  “We’re looking forward to the first hundred days, and we’re going to try to push for Donald Trump releasing the tourniquet on the coal and oil industries, starting maybe an infrastructure bill to improve the roads, highways, airports, schools in the country, and, I hope, push for him to go ahead and start renegotiating on these trade deals, so we can bring our jobs back, and bring some of these companies that are parking their assets overseas and moving their companies to Mexico, hopefully we can stop that from continuing and bring some of them back,” he continued. Rickers was not surprised that the economically devastated Rust Belt states gave Trump the support he needed to defeat Hillary Clinton. “Well, I mean, if people aren’t able to provide for their families like they used to  —   my dad worked for 34 years as an engineer for Norfolk Southern, driving coal trains in Virginia. He put both myself, and my brother, and my sister  —   all three  —   through college, and everything was good. Those jobs don’t really exist any more, and you know he has a pension, most people who are working hard now have lost their benefits. They’ve lost their pensions. A lot of them are underemployed. They are now contract workers. And they are just pissed that we can’t do the things we used to do,” he said. “That has been bubbling up for many, many years, and it came to a head November 8. ” Rickers laughed when Marlow observed that the media were still running the same   playbook about how Trump supporters are a fringe movement motivated primarily by racism. “Well, they were completely wrong all along,” he pointed out. “They were popping the champagne corks early in the day on Tuesday. I was watching Morning Joe and some of the other cable shows, and they were just as excited as they could be. By the end of the day, they were all looking at each other and didn’t have anything to say. And then the next day, and the next day, they were making every excuse in the book and blaming it on racism. I mean, who believes that half the people in this country are just pure racists? This is just insane. ”  “They’re mad about the policies in this country,” he said of Trump voters. “They’re mad that they’re not able to provide for their families like they used to. I don’t know how that translates into racism. It’s really unsightly, unseemly, and we need to start talking about positive things that we’re going to do for this country, and not make up excuses every time something doesn’t go their way. ” Rickers predicted that Democrats would “go off and double down and say, ‘We’re going to elect Nancy Pelosi to lead the Democrats again in Congress. ’” “I mean, what in the heck is going on? The definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting a different result,” he said. “It’s just laughable. Where are they going? What is their vision for the future? They’re still looking in the rear view mirror. ” Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00 a. m. to 9:00 a. m. Eastern. LISTEN: 