Many of Bill Clinton’s alleged female sex assault victims are no longer afraid to speak out and feel more empowered by the change in societal attitudes regarding sexual crimes, declared Breitbart’s Aaron Klein on Thursday. [“These female victims  …    finally more empowered. They are not as afraid. They are not as intimidated,” said Klein. The reporter was speaking on Breitbart News Daily, the morning radio program.  Klein continued on Hillary and Bill: She’s used to shutting down conversation, which is what she tried to at the town hall meeting but clearly it didn’t work. And she’s tried to shut down conversation for a long time. And in fact, Bill is not used to this, by the way. He’s used to having a wife (who) has been accused of being an enabler  …     Remember, the point here is not simply that Bill Clinton allegedly sexually assaulted women. The other aspect to this is that Hillary allegedly silenced it, according to the women. Click below to listen to Klein’s interview on Breitbart News Daily.  Klein, Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief, is also host of a popular weekend talk radio program that has been spotlighted by the news media in recent days for exclusively interviewing Bill Clinton’s famous sex accusers, including Juanita Broaddrick, Paula Jones and Kathleen Willey. Gennifer Flowers, who had consensual relations with Clinton, also warned about a Hillary presidency on Klein’s show. The interviews helped to spark the current debate about Bill’s alleged female victims, a topic that has been engulfing Hillary’s frontrunner campaign. The Washington Post on Thursday cited a Breitbart article in which Klein described how his radio program had become “a support center of sorts” for Bill Clinton’s female accusers  —   “a   for these women to sound off about the way they were allegedly treated by both Bill and Hillary. ” Clinton has been called out for allegedly attempting to silence some of her husband’s accusers while the Democratic frontrunner insisted in a recent campaign ad that women have a right to be believed if they accuse men of sexual assault. Earlier this week, Clinton was repeatedly heckled about Broaddrick at a town hall event in Derry, New Hampshire by Katherine Prudhomme O’Brien, a GOP state representative from Rockingham. Click below to hear a summary of Klein’s interviews with Bill’s female accusers.  Yesterday, Broaddrick told Klein she is revisiting her rape allegations against Bill Clinton in hopes of educating a generation of young Americans on the former president’s sordid history with women. In a newsmaking interview, conducted on Klein’s radio show Sunday night, Paula Jones, the former Arkansas state employee who notoriously sued President Bill Clinton for sexual harassment, warned about Hillary making it to the White House. During the interview, Jones demanded that Hillary Clinton personally apologize for “allowing” her husband to “abuse” and “sexually harass” women. Jones slammed Hillary as a “ ” “liar” who waged a war on women by trying to discredit “predator” Bill’s sexual accusers. She further accused the media of practicing a double standard by “protecting” the Clintons while deservedly scrutinizing Bill Cosby’s alleged sexual assaults. In November, Broaddrick, the woman who famously accused Bill Clinton of rape, spoke out against Hillary’s candidacy on Klein’s show. “I think she has always known everything about him. I think they have this evil compact between the two of them that they each know what the other does and overlook it. And go right on. And cover one for the other,” she said. Kathleen Willey was a Democratic activist who, along with her husband Ed, founded Virginians for Clinton, which supported Bill Clinton’s successful 1992 White House bid. Willey became a White House volunteer during Clinton’s first term. She says she was facing a tough financial situation, so she personally approached Bill about the possibility of a paid position. Instead of offering to help her, Willey says she became the victim of “nothing short of serious sexual harassment. ” Since Hillary’s campaign announcement in April, Willey has repeatedly come on Klein’s show to speak out against the Democratic  . “This woman wrote the book on terrorizing women, on terrorism,” Willey exclaimed in one of those interviews. Willey refuses to watch as Hillary’s campaign accuses Republican candidates like Trump of waging a   war on women.  In August, Willey announced the launch of a new   website called A Scandal a Day.  A section of the site asks women who may have been sexually assaulted by Bill Clinton to come forward. Willey also wrote the forward to a recently released book by bestselling author Roger Stone, titled The Clintons’ War on Women. Gennifer Flowers, who says she was Bill Clinton’s consensual mistress for more than 12 years, told Klein she fears a Hillary Clinton presidency. In her only interview since Clinton announced her candidacy, Flowers in October accused Hillary of being “an enabler that has encouraged him (Bill) to go out and do whatever he does with women. ” Clinton admitted in a deposition to one sexual encounter with Flowers. Rape allegations. Bloody lip. Broaddrick’s story begins when she was a nursing home administrator volunteering for   Attorney General Bill Clinton’s 1978 gubernatorial bid. She said Clinton singled her out during a campaign stop at her nursing home. “He would just sort of insinuate, you know when you are in Little Rock let’s get together. Let’s talk about the industry. Let’s talk about the needs of the nursing homes, and I was very excited about that. ” Broaddrick said she finally took Clinton up on that offer in the spring of 1978 when she traveled to Little Rock for an industry convention along with her friend and nursing employee, Norma Rogers. The two shared a room at the city’s Camelot Hotel. Broaddrick phoned Clinton’s campaign headquarters to inform him of her arrival and was told by a receptionist that Clinton had left instructions for her to reach him at his private apartment. “I called his apartment and he answered,” she recounted. “And he said ‘Well, why don’t we meet in the Camelot Hotel coffee room and we can get together there and talk. And I said ‘That would be fine. ’” Clinton then changed the meeting location from the hotel coffee shop to Broaddrick’s room. “A time later and I’m not sure how long it was, he called my room, which he said he would do when he got to the coffee shop. And he said ‘There are too many people down here. It’s too crowded. There’s reporters and can we just meet in your room? ’” “And it sort of took me back a little bit, Aaron,” she said of Clinton’s request. “But I did say okay, I’ll order coffee to the room, which I did and that’s when things sort of got out of hand. And it was very unexpected. It was, you might even say, brutal. With the biting of my lip. ” Broaddrick said she did not want to rehash the alleged rape scene, explaining those painful details are fully available in previous news reports. She told NBC’s Dateline in 1999 that she resisted when Clinton suddenly kissed her: Then he tries to kiss me again. And the second time he tries to kiss me he starts biting my lip   …     He starts to, um, bite on my top lip and I tried to pull away from him. And then he forces me down on the bed. And I just was very frightened, and I tried to get away from him and I told him ‘No,’ that I didn’t want this to happen but he wouldn’t listen to me.   …     It was a real panicky, panicky situation. I was even to the point where I was getting very noisy, you know, yelling to ‘Please stop.’ And that’s when he pressed down on my right shoulder and he would bite my lip.   …     When everything was over with, he got up and straightened himself, and I was crying at the moment and he walks to the door, and calmly puts on his sunglasses. And before he goes out the door he says ‘You better get some ice on that.’ And he turned and went out the door. In her interview with Klein, Broaddrick recounted the aftermath of the incident, when her friend Rogers came back to the room after Broaddrick failed to show up to the convention. “I was in a state of shock afterwards,” an emotional Broaddrick said, clearly still impacted by the event.  “And I know my nurse came back to the room to check on me because she hadn’t heard from me   …    She came up and it was devastating to her and to me to find me in the condition that I was in. ” “We really did not know what to do. We sat and talked and she got ice for my mouth.   …    It was four times the size that it should be. And she got ice for me and we decided then I just wanted to go home. I just wanted to get out of there, which we did. ” The detail about Clinton allegedly biting her lip is instructive. One woman who would later say she had a consensual affair with Clinton, former Miss America pageant winner Elizabeth Ward Gracen, would also reveal Clinton bit her lip when a tryst became rough. Broaddrick initially said that she shouldered the blame, since she allowed Clinton up to her room. Three weeks after the incident, Broaddrick says she was still in a state of shock and denial about what she said had transpired. She said she attended a private Clinton fundraiser at the home of a local dentist, where she had an encounter with the Clintons and was directly approached by Hillary. Broaddrick said a friend of hers who had driven the Clintons to the fundraiser from a local airport informed her that “the whole conversation was about you coming from the airport. Mostly from Mrs. Clinton. ” She recalled: “And so then about that time, I see them coming through the kitchen area. And some people there are pointing to me. He goes one direction and she comes directly to me. Then panic sort of starting to set in with me. And I thought, ‘Oh my God, what do I do now? ’” Broaddrick told Klein that Hillary approached her “and said ‘It’s so nice to meet you’ and all of the niceties she was trying to say at the time. ” “And said, ‘I just want you to know how much Bill and I appreciate the things you do for him.’ And I just stood there, Aaron. I was sort of you might say  . ” “And she said, ‘Do you understand. Everything you do. ’’’ “She tried to take a hold of my hand and I left. I told the girls I can’t take this. I’m leaving. So I immediately left. ” Broaddrick said that “what really went through my mind at that time is ‘She knows. She knew. She’s covering it up and she expects me to do the very same thing. ”