Comedian Louis C. K. is set to host a birthday fundraiser for Bill de Blasio this month in Brooklyn, as the New York City Mayor remains at the center of an investigation into alleged violations of state election fundraising law. [The    comedian and star of FX’s Louie will be the featured guest at the May 12 fundraising bash at Brooklyn Bowl, the swanky bowling   music venue in Williamsburg. De Blasio’s 55th birthday is May 8.  “I’m excited to share the news that Louis C. K. is introducing the Mayor at our next fundraiser on May 12th at Brooklyn Bowl,” the de Blasio campaign wrote in an email to supporters. “As a generous supporter of the Mayor’s past campaigns, we’d love to invite you to join the host committee for the event. It’s a great opportunity to support the mayor at one of the most fun venues in NYC. ” Tickets for the event start at $100, while a $1, 750 donation will get supporters a “Host” tag and $2, 500 a “Chair” tag. The event comes as top aides to de Blasio were hit with subpoenas from investigators last week over the mayor’s alleged violations of New York state fundraising law in 2014. An explosive leaked memo from Board of Elections investigators charged de Blasio with “willful and flagrant” violations of state election law in an allegedly illegal scheme to get Democrats elected to the state Senate that year. “There is considerable evidence in this case that New York City mayor William de Blasio organized a team dedicated to getting a sufficient number of Democratic New York State senators elected in 2014 to achieve a Democratic majority in the senate. The evidence indicates that de Blasio established a structure, both within and outside City Hall, and entered into an agreement with powerful unions  …     and political consultants  …     to raise and spend money to influence senate races,” BOE enforcement chief Risa Sugarman wrote in the memo, according to the New York Post. “The evidence demonstrates that the de Blasio team coordinated its fundraising activities with and intentionally solicited contributions for these candidates   …     in order to evade contribution limits and to disguise the true names of the contributors, conduct which may violate [two election laws],” Sugarman added. The   Brooklyn fundraiser is the comedian’s latest show of support for the embattled mayor. In August, CK followed the mayor around New York City for several days for a potential film or television project. Earlier last year, the comedian playfully roasted de Blasio at the annual charity fundraiser Inner Circle show.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum,  