Barbara Walters is retired, Oprah Winfrey is running a network and Megyn Kelly sees an opening. “It’s there for the taking right now,” she said in a recent interview. And what is there for the taking? What those famous hosts had accomplished: conducting the sort of interviews that could transfix a nation. “Those were the biggest spots to go for an interview if you had something you wanted to get off your chest, if you were in the middle of a scandal or a major news story and you wanted to do a     to get past it or to go on the record,” she said. She quickly added: “And I’m here!” Making the Oprah or Barbara Walters leap is a remarkably tricky business. Many have tried before, with daytime shows or   specials, only to run into a wall and return to a more comfortable corner of television. And the interview special is a relic from a time on television when what was broadcast on the Big Four networks was what mattered most. But on Tuesday, Ms. Kelly, the Fox News anchor and host of “The Kelly File,” will take her first crack at a   special on Fox  —   the broadcast network, not the cable news station  —   with “Megyn Kelly Presents. ” There is certainly one big hook to draw viewers: She will confront the likely Republican presidential nominee, Donald J. Trump, a man who over the last nine months has kept Ms. Kelly in the middle of a running news story by relentlessly attacking her. And though Mr. Trump represents the   get, she will also interview two actors (Michael Douglas and Laverne Cox) and a lawyer (Robert Shapiro) who is back in the news after the successful O. J. Simpson anthology “American Crime Story” on FX. Mr. Trump aside, it is with those interviews that Ms. Kelly hopes to accomplish something new: prove that she can do much more than simply host a nightly news show. If all goes well, she will display range and versatility at a convenient time. Her contract with Fox News is set to expire in a little more than a year. “I would like to prove to myself that I have these other muscles,” she said, as she sat in her cramped office on Sixth Avenue. “It doesn’t all have to be   level of difficulty. It can be other kinds of questioning where you get more to somebody’s humanity and tell their story. ” She said that one of her benchmarks for success was if viewers said: “I saw Megyn in a new light. ” Her Fox News show, “The Kelly File,” has been a hit for more than two years, but Ms. Kelly, who is 45, is in the middle of a big moment in her career. Since Mr. Trump began attacking her after the first Republican debate in August, Ms. Kelly has approached something close to genuine celebrity status. She was on the cover of Vanity Fair in February, she has made the rounds of the   circuit over the last three months. She also made her first appearance at the Met Gala in early May, the lavish Manhattan event that effectively serves as the year’s social register for the rich and famous. There is also a book in the works  —   she is handing in the manuscript to her editor at HarperCollins later this month and spent the last week writing the Trump section. It comes out the week after Election Day in November, and Tuesday will bring her the first   special. There are real questions whether the   “special” can attract a meaningful audience and lift a career. Long gone are the days when Ms. Walters could attract an audience of about 50 million people, as her exclusive interview with Monica Lewinsky did in 1999. But even in a fragmented TV landscape, they can occasionally break through. Last year, Caitlyn Jenner’s revelation that she was transgender in an interview with Diane Sawyer drew nearly 17 million viewers, which qualifies as a huge hit these days. Ms. Kelly was reluctant to discuss a ratings goal. The producer for “Megyn Kelly Presents,” the veteran TV newsman Bill Geddie, pointed out that Fox did not ordinarily run these type of news specials and that expectations should be managed accordingly. “Megyn said it right: We’re looking for a single here,” he said. The special can accomplish other goals for her instead. The news cycle has been relentlessly focused on politics and Ms. Kelly said she was more than happy to take a break from that. She is not a political junkie. “That’s not all I am,” she said “I love covering the news, but I’m not a political person, so I don’t know that I get the jones out of immersing myself in politics all day, every day the way some others do. ” She added, “You look out at the news landscape, and there isn’t the one perfect job that would service the soul. ” If that turn of phrase makes her sound a little like Oprah, it is probably not by accident. She pointed to Ms. Winfrey and Charlie Rose to illustrate her broader goals. “Oprah’s a bit more spiritual and helps improve people’s lives, which I also would like to do,” she said. “Charlie has a thing that I don’t have. He will sit down with Brian Dennehy, who’s got an amazing show on Broadway, and talk to him about it. He’ll sit down with business executives like Tim Cook and talk to him about what’s happening in his life. ” And if Ms. Kelly wants to be part Oprah, part Charlie Rose and also fill the Barbara Walters vacuum (“Who in their right mind would reject that?” she said of Ms. Walters) she got the right producer. Mr. Geddie produced more than 100 of Ms. Walters’s   specials. “Megyn Kelly Presents” will be quite a departure from her regular   show: Say goodbye to the talking heads and   cuts, and cue a gauzier look, with two comfortable chairs and a contemplative head nod. “It’s nice to step outside of it every once in a while and try out the Louis Vuitton luggage,” she said. This is, of course, leads to the   question: What will happen when her contract expires next year? Whether or not the special is a success, she will have plenty of suitors lined up. And Fox News is keen to keep her. The special was the brainchild of the Fox News chairman, Roger Ailes, Ms. Kelly said. And she expressed loyalty to Mr. Ailes when asked about her future. “The number of times he’s had my back, given me opportunities, stuck his own neck out there to protect me, I feel very grateful to him. ” She continued: “Having said that, this is a fickle business, and you never say never. Every time I’ve been up for a contract negotiation I’ve been   to what possibilities exist. ” Though the special may show how adept she is at interviewing a celebrity, much of the attention on Tuesday night will ultimately be on Mr. Trump, who made her his No. 1 media nemesis with his famous description of “blood coming out of her   …     wherever. ” Ms. Kelly said she planned to contact him for months but the attacks on her kept coming (Mr. Trump tweeted regularly about her, calling her “Crazy Megyn,” and he skipped the second Fox News debate in late January because of Ms. Kelly’s involvement). She wanted him for this special, but it was not an easy assignment. Even Mr. Geddie, who has known Mr. Trump for 20 years, reached out and was given a flat no. It was not until April that Ms. Kelly reached out to Mr. Trump for the first time since the debate in August. She later met him alone at the Trump Tower to discuss the interview. Less than two weeks later, he was in. Though she concedes that Mr. Trump has made her “name better known,” she also refers to the last year as a dark one. There have been security concerns, and the stream of tweets from Mr. Trump and his supporters has been unpleasant. “This is one of the things that I get into with Trump in the interview,” she said. “Not about me but about whether he realizes the power his words have on the lives of his targets. Not just Megyn Kelly. ” In a campaign cycle in which the news media has been roundly criticized for kowtowing to Mr. Trump, Ms. Kelly has mostly been above it all. She even said on a March show: “I’m the    show in all of cable news and I haven’t had Trump on in seven months. It can be done without him too. ” With the apparent rapprochement, is Ms. Kelly worried about the perception that she, too, is doing whatever needs to be done to get him for an interview? “Listen, if I weren’t a journalist, would I have called up Trump and said ‘Let’s meet’? No, I would not,” she said. “But it’s because I’m a journalist he was attacking me to begin with. So, no, you cannot compare me trying to put an end to his   barrage so that I can cover him like a normal journalist with the    obsessive coverage we have seen of his candidacy. ” Ms. Kelly expressed some frustration that she had been in the news for so long. Asked whether she thought Mr. Trump’s attacks would end after the special was broadcast, she took a long pause, and said, without a great deal of confidence: “I hope so. One never knows. ”