Breitbart Tech   Milo Yiannopoulos joined Breitbart News Daily with host Breitbart News    Alex Marlow to discuss how progressives and social media networks are manipulating and censoring discussions and the news. [“Where do you think this is going to take the news world and the world in general, where are we getting our information, how is the landscape changing from your vantage point?” Marlow asked in reference to the media’s covering of stories.  “It’s not a hugely positive outlook, I’m sorry to say,” Yiannopoulos replied. “The mainstream media continues to move in this bizarre, sort of   distortion field direction, insisting on covering things up. And then when it becomes impossible to deny that, for example, marauding gangs of sexual molestation and rapists are from a particular place or a particular religion or arrived in the country in a particular way, then the story becomes about, ‘Oh it was the police covering it up, not us, not the media. ’” “They think people are so stupid, so idiotic,” he continued. “And the problem of course is that when you look at the means through which people can circumvent that system, social media, sharing information with each other about what actually happens as the press isn’t doing its job properly, you discover that almost every social network is in cahoots with national governments or is simply ideologically aligned with the progressive media to cover that stuff up. ” Yiannopoulos noted that discussion of the alleged mass sexual assaults in Cologne on New Year’s Eve had been censored on Reddit. “Until it became impossible to ignore, you weren’t really allowed to talk about the ethnicity and origins of the assailants,” he explained. “Twitter does many of the same things. Facebook is possibly the worst offender. It announced, proudly in fact, that it had teamed up with the German government to remove what they referred to as ‘hate speech’  …     about immigration,” Yiannopoulos continued. “What of course they actually mean is criticism and ridicule of the government’s immigration policies and the government’s refugee policies. ” “Your options to find information and to discuss what’s going on, to express your concerns, your anxieties, your options online are actually pretty limited. There aren’t many places you can go to tell the truth,” Yiannopolous stated. “Disaffected liberals, liberals who are so frustrated with their own side, with their own media  …     are coming over in their droves to sites like Breitbart because we actually tell the truth about things. ” Marlow noted that many social media sites are “putting their thumb on the scale away from the direction of free speech” and that Breitbart is becoming a “free speech central home for people who are disaffected” by outlets that are shutting down discussion from users for challenging the established news narrative. “Progressives have invented this new way of shutting down discussion they don’t like by calling it ‘harassment,’ by calling it ‘threats,’ by calling it ‘abuse,’” Yiannopoulos concurred. “What they do is they mischaracterize criticism and ridicule of the establishment consensus. ” “You’re going to be hearing a lot, if you haven’t already, over the next year or two about   abuse and harassment on the Internet. And what these journalists really mean is, ‘Someone caught me telling a lie,’” he continued. “You’ll see on news sites, whether it’s the Daily Beast or CNN, all kinds of huge, supposedly mainstream,     news organizations, they’re all closing their comments sections. Why? Because readers are smarter, more honest, and more ruthless about the truth than journalists are these days. ” In closing, Yiannopoulos pointed out how absurd this tactic has become by highlighting comments from Ralf Jaeger, interior minister for North   who said, “What happens on the   platforms and in chatrooms is at least as awful as the acts of those assaulting the women,” in reference to reports of mass sexual assaults on New Year’s Eve across Germany by suspected migrants. “Just to be completely crystal clear to listeners, he is saying that words on the internet, people expressing their frustration with their communities changing, with mass Muslim immigration, mass Syrian refugee immigration, words on the internet are as bad as rape,” he stated. “That’s what an elected politician in Germany said. ” Noah Dulis is the Deputy Managing Editor of Breitbart News and   of Breitbart Tech. Follow him on Twitter @Marshal_Dov.