Hillary Clinton raised more than one million dollars over the weekend at a Martha’s Vineyard house party given by top supporter Lynn Forester de Rothschild (pictured). [Unmentioned in major media coverage of the fundraising event is that de Rothschild is a member of the Economist Group and also owns a major stake in the group, which has controlling ownership of the Economist magazine. The Economist has played a leading role in attacking the foreign policy credentials of Donald Trump.  De Rothschild is a top Clinton supporter, donor, and fundraiser, and has done work with the Clinton Foundation and donated to it. The Los Angeles Times reported on de Rothschild’s weekend fundraiser: Hillary Clinton dropped by the resort island of Martha’s Vineyard over the weekend to pick up more than $1 million in campaign contributions during an elegant party at the summer home of one of her most devoted supporters. Thirty people contributed $50, 000 apiece to attend the Saturday night function at the home of Lynn Forester de Rothschild, a wealthy investment manager so committed to Clinton that she couldn’t bring herself to vote for  . Barack Obama after he defeated her candidate in 2008. Only last month, an article published by the Economist warned that an America governed by “ ” will be “poorer and more dangerous,” while urging Republicans to support Clinton instead of Trump, who, the magazine claims, has “sucked confidence out of global institutions. ” The Economist and its subsidiaries have repeatedly warned against a Trump presidency. In her speeches, Clinton has often repeated a claim from a British research organization that ranked Trump as the third greatest threat to the global economy. Clinton did not tell her audiences that the firm in question  —   the Economist Intelligence Unit  —   is a division of the Economist Group, led by the   activist de Rothschild. The Economist’s Intelligence Unit’s assessment made headlines in June. It reportedly marked the first time the firm rated a U. S. presidential candidate’s election as a global risk. The Rothschilds, led by de Rothschild, have long been shareholders in the Economist Group. In 2015, they reportedly purchased a 21 percent controlling stake in the group. In 2015, she traveled with Bill and Chelsea Clinton to visit five of the Clinton Foundation’s initiatives in Africa. She is a Clinton Foundation donor. Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio. ” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook. With research by Joshua Klein.