Transgender reality TV star and former Olympian athlete Bruce “Caitlyn” Jenner used the women’s restroom at Trump International Hotel and Tower in New York on Wednesday, and took a shot at Sen. Ted Cruz on the way out. [“Oh my God, a trans woman in New York, I gotta take a pee,” Jenner, 66, said in a video posted on Facebook. “Oh my God, Trump International Hotel, I love this. ”  Speaking to the camera, Jenner added: “OK, last week Donald Trump said I could take a pee anywhere in a Trump facility, so I am gonna go take a pee in the ladies’ room. ” Pausing at a men’s room inside Trump Tower, Jenner then said, “Not anymore,” before making his way into the ladies’ room. After exiting the ladies’ room, Jenner said: “Thank you, Donald. I really appreciate it. And by the way, Ted, nobody got molested. ” Watch: When asked about North Carolina’s controversial Public Facilities Privacy and Security Act  —   which requires individuals to use the public restroom that corresponds with their biological gender  —   Trump said on The Today Show last Thursday that the law is causing the state unnecessary problems. “You leave it the way it is  …     There have been very few complaints the way it is. People go, they use the bathroom that they feel is appropriate,” he said. “There has been so little trouble. ” When asked if Jenner could use whichever restroom he identified with at Trump Tower, Trump replied: “That is correct. ” Sen. Ted Cruz, meanwhile, supports the North Carolina law and used Trump’s statement saying legislation on the matter is unneeded to compare Trump to Hillary Clinton and President Obama. “Donald agreed with Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama in attacking the state of North Carolina for passing their bathroom ordinance,” Cruz told his supporters at a rally in Maryland following Trump’s statements on Today. “And Donald, on television this morning, said, gosh, he thought that men should be able to go into the girls’ bathroom if they want to. Now let me ask you, have we gone stark raving nuts? This is the political correctness. ” Referring to economic pressure over the North Carolina “bathroom law,” Trump stated later in the day the law is “causing them some problems” and that “We have to take care of everybody” during a conversation with Sean Hannity on the Fox News Channel. He said that “local communities and states should make the decision. ” Jenner, who identifies as conservative despite his prominent standing inside the LGBT community, has voiced supported for Cruz in recent months. In March, Jenner offered to become Ted Cruz’s “trans ambassador” if he becomes president. Jenner later said he felt Trump “would be very good for women’s issues. ” Only about one in every 2, 400 American adults have changed their names from one sex to the other, according to a study of the 2010 census. A recent poll shows a rapid rise in public opposition to   bathrooms.