Hillary Clinton’s campaign chairman John Podesta’s membership on the executive board of an energy company, Joule Unlimited, which received millions from a   Russian government fund, also included “75, 000 common shares,” according to an email exchange uncovered by the Wikileaks hacks. [In the   email exchanged under the subject “Podesta Outstanding Docs for Joule,” Eryn Sepp, who was an assistant to Podesta at the Center for American Progress, forwarded a message to Podesta from Mark C. Solakian, who was Senior Vice President and General Counsel at Joule Unlimited Technologies, Inc.  “It is my understanding that John transferred the resulting 75, 000 common shares from the option exercise to the Leonidio LLC. ,” Slovakian wrote in a January 2014 email, referencing the   holding company. “As such, we would need to edit the Transfer of Share Agreement to reflect the transfer of 75, 000 common shares to the LLC. ” Podesta’s membership on the board of directors of Joule Unlimited was first revealed in research from Breitbart News Senior    and Government Accountability Institute (GAI) President Peter Schweizer. In the report, tilted, “From Russia with Money: Hillary Clinton, the Russian Reset, and Cronyism,” it’s revealed that Podesta joined the Joule Unlimited board in June 2011. “The disclosure that Clinton Chair John Podesta transferred his shares in   Joule Unlimited to an anonymous holding company when he joined the Obama Administration is extremely concerning,” said Donald Trump Senior Communications Advisor Jason Miller in a statement. Podesta failed to fully disclose his position on Joule Unlimited’s board of directors and include it in his federal financial disclosures, as required by law, before he became President Obama’s senior adviser. “Because the holding company is completely anonymous, we do not know whether or not he still has deep financial ties to Vladimir Putin and his regime,” Trump advisor Jason Miller wrote. “As such, Mr. Podesta needs to either reveal who is behind the holding company or he must resign from the Clinton campaign immediately. ” Podesta also wrote to Slovakian about the “transfer of Joule shares” in a January 3, 2014 letter. Transfer of Joule Shares by Breitbart News on Scribd,  The GAI report also included a timeline, which details the specifics surrounding Podesta’s membership on the executive board of Joule Unlimited. The revelations linking Podesta to   companies found in the hacked email exchanges come as Podesta claims Russian spies hacked his email to influence the presidential election. Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson