The campaign of 2016 GOP presidential candidate Sen. Ted Cruz ( ) has pulled an ad off the air after it was reported that one of the actresses is a softcore porn star. [The ad opens with people sitting in a circle at what appears to be a therapy group. They discuss how they have been lied to by Republican presidential candidate Sen. Marco Rubio ( ).  The actress, Amy Lindsay, tells one of the people in the group: “Maybe you should vote for more than just a pretty face next time. ” Lindsay has appeared in many softcore porn films, including Erotic Confessions, Carnal Wishes, Secrets of a Chambermaid, and Insatiable Desires. Cruz spokesman Rick Tyler told Breitbart News that the actress responded to an open casting call. “The actress responded to an open casting call. She passed her audition and got the job. Unfortunately, she was not vetted by the production company. Had the campaign known of her full filmography, we obviously would not have let her appear in the ad,” Tyler said in an email. The actress told BuzzFeed News that she is a conservative. Prior to the Cruz campaign pulling the ad, Lindsay told BuzzFeed News in a phone interview on Thursday that she’s a Christian conservative and a Republican. While she emphasized that she did not do hardcore porn and that she also appeared in   films, Lindsay said she thinks it is cool that an actress who has appeared in softcore porn could also appear in Cruz’s ad. “In a cool way, then hey, then it’s not just some old, white Christian bigot that people want to say, ‘It could be, maybe, a cool kind of   woman like me,’” she said of people supporting Cruz. Male porn star Ron Jeremy, with whom Lindsay has appeared in photographs, told The Daily Caller —  whose reporter Steve Guest broke the story —  that he “thinks it’s great” an adult film star was featured in a Cruz ad, since most in the porn industry are liberals. “Porn stars are liberal in nature,” Jeremy told The Daily Caller, adding it was “kind of exciting” one made it into a Republican campaign ad. “Cruz shouldn’t be embarrassed” by the porn star’s appearance in his campaign ad, Jeremy added.