On July 9, two days after the heinous ambush on Dallas police officers, citizens armed with   stood guard outside various police departments in Texas. [According to the Montgomery County Police Reporter, James Evans, Roger Tarrant, and Paul Wilson went to the Patton Village Police Department with “their   in hand” and stood guard. They also stood outside the City of Splendora Police Department (SPD) where passing drivers “honked their horns in approval, while others stopped for photos, selfies, and to personally thank them for what they were doing. ”  In fact, the men garnered so much support in the form of food and bottled water that they began stacking the food on the hoods of their pickup trucks so   could see they already had more than they could handle. Traffic outside SPD became so bad that the department used a Facebook post to urge drivers to keep moving. The post said: Citizens of the City of Splendora, SPD is aware of the individuals in the front of city hall today. A SPD officer along with outside law enforcement agency officers have already made contact with them. They were not viewed commiting [sic] any criminal offenses. They were very cooperative and understanding when discussed of firearms safety. They showed no danger to any persons when we made contact with them. They are showing support for local law enforcement agencies which is appreciated in this hard time for the State of Texas and the country is going through. For the safety of drivers on roadway, we ask citizens driving by taking pictures to not stop in roadway due to it can cause a traffic hazard or wreck. Thank you to our great city and east Montgomery county for the positive support. Evans said he just “wanted to show police that civilians stood by them, that they aren’t alone. ” He added, “I am tired of seeing officers slain for doing their job. ” AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.