Speaking with host and Breitbart News Executive Chairman Stephen K. Bannon on Breitbart News Daily on SiriusXM Patriot Ch. 125, Breitbart Tech editor Milo Yiannopoulos discussed Apple’s refusal to unlock San Bernadino terrorist Syed Farook’s iPhone and national security issues concerning technology as a whole. [“What do you believe about this whole Apple situation with getting into the terrorists phones and being able to unlock them?” asked Bannon. “What is your position on that, what’s your initial thoughts?”  “I think a lot of people accept that there has to be some suspension of our usual principles to keep us safe from terrorism” replied Yiannopoulos. “Islamic terrorism is one of those things where I think most citizens are prepared to accept some degree of intrusion into their private lives, some degree of compromise to their freedom to stop   happening again. Now nobody sincerely believes that Apple doesn’t have a way into its own devices, no one seriously believes that they wouldn’t build that in, but they like to posture in public about protecting their customers data. ” “These things you hear all the time: ‘There’s no way through encryption. There’s no way in these devices. It’s not technologically possible.’ That’s never true,” Yiannopoulos claimed. “There’s always ways in, there’s always ways to build in, you know trap doors and back doors, and things that people are never going to see. Whether it’s in encryption services or any other service bought by any corporation, it’s just never true. ” Upon being asked by   and Breitbart Editor in Chief Alex Marlow about whether Apple was just being defensive about their product, Yiannopoulos responded: “I think it’s certainly part of it. Some people forget sometimes how big how powerful and how rich Apple is but because there’s so much good feeling towards Apple. People feel nice about the company. They like it. They like Apple’s products. Apple generally doesn’t get into trouble for trust or security violations for etc, you know?” “It’s not the constant subject of stories about privacy and about data and free speech in the way that Facebook and Twitter are. It doesn’t have that sort of reputation,” he continued. “I think it gets a big free pass, and it’s got a free pass for a variety of reasons. ” “Steve Jobs got a free pass because of his personality and his visionary product brain. Tim Cook got a free pass before he came out as gay. He’s probably the most   on CEO in America’s history, if you think about how powerful he is,” Yiannopoulos said. “Do we even know much about this man? No. Why? Because reporters are scared of going near the gay thing. Apples executives have been some of the most secretive and   on people in American corporate history relative to their power, and the company’s the same too because most people like it. ” “Most people like Apple. As a result, the company has been able to, despite its size and its power, to sort of get away with murder without really being subjected to the same level of scrutiny as other technology companies. ” You can follow Charlie Nash on Twitter @MrNashington.