Dr. Sebastian Gorka, National Security Editor for Breitbart News and author of the   Defeating Jihad: The Winnable War, appeared on Fox News’ “Hannity” with guest host Tucker Carlson on Friday night to discuss the way terrorism was downplayed at the Democratic National Convention. [Carlson observed that ISIS and terrorism were scarcely mentioned during the convention, and wondered if it was a matter of Democrats not understanding the threat of Islamic terrorism, or being unwilling to acknowledge it for political reasons.   “If you look at the last seven and a half years, I think it has to be the latter,” said Gorka. “I want to be careful here, Tucker,” he continued. “I don’t want to lambaste all Democratic voters in America. The DNC is really a function of the   machine. It’s part of a Party that’s been captured by the radicals. ” “Just look at what happened. The convocation was booed. The serviceman with a Medal of Honor, trying to read the names of his fellow servicemen killed in combat was booed. The female police officer who asked for a moment of silence for fallen police officers was heckled by the Black Lives Matter. This is unbelievable, and clearly the thing that they’re most concerned about isn’t ISIS, it’s Donald Trump and global warming,” Gorka said. Carlson asked what it was about ISIS and Islamic terrorism that Democrats are so reluctant to acknowledge. “I think the trouble with ISIS, or with radical Islam, is that its existence, its bare existence, countermands the   kumbaya moral relativism and multiculturalism that the Democrat Party has been ramming down our throats for 30 years,” Gorka replied. “If all cultures are equal, if everybody has the same values, then how does this thing called jihadism exist, and why do people shout ‘Allahu akbar’ as they’re running out of the church in Normandy, having beheaded a Catholic priest in front of the altar?” “It’s too much of a smoking gun that disproves the whole argument of cultural equivalency and moral relativism,” he declared. When Carlson suggested the response to ISIS terrorism would be different if they were a Christian group, Gorka rolled his eyes and said, “Oh, my God, could you imagine? Could you imagine if there was a threat of this equivalence? Imagine if there were white Christians beheading imams in mosques in America. What would be the reaction then? Would it be about all cultures being equal, and that this person was unemployed, and bullied at school, or a   taking out revenge?” “None of the narratives we see today, that actually make excuses for the perpetrators, none of those would be permitted if a Caucasian Christian was doing the same kind of horrific acts,” he asserted. Gorka said it was “the greatest irony of all” that Western liberals are loathed by Islamist terrorists, whose grim values are the diametric opposite of everything that could be described as “liberal” in either the classical or modern sense. “If the Caliphate expands  —   let’s have the horror story that ISIS, the Islamic State, expands and expands, there’s lack of leadership, they acquire weapons of mass destruction, and they take over America, or they take over the West. Guess who’s going to be lined up against the wall first? Not you and I, not   monotheists. We’ll be killed or enslaved later. The first people to be killed, to be crucified, to be beheaded, will be the liberals, the atheists, the homosexuals,” Gorka said. As Carlson put it, “when feminism collides with multiculturalism, the Left takes the side of multiculturalism. ” “And if you’re into women’s rights, where are the protests in America on female genital mutilation, or the laws in Iran that allow you to marry a    girl?” Gorka agreed. “I missed those demonstrations at the DNC. Did you see those demonstrations?” 