A music video for a new song by Marilyn Manson released this week sees the rocker ripping pages out of a Bible as he stands over the lifeless body of a man resembling Donald Trump. [“Either way tomorrow goes, the visuals are meant to create contemplation. Because it’s obviously bigger than just tomorrow,” Manson told the Daily Beast in an interview just hours before Election Day. “It’s about the desperate acts of people who believe something that is preached by an unbeliever. ”  Trump ultimately won Tuesday night’s election Manson had released a sneak preview of the graphic video Tuesday morning. (Warning: Graphic Content) The video sees Manson sitting on a kind of throne while tearing pages out of a Bible, and later, holding a bloody knife in his hand. In a flash, a man wearing a suit and a red tie  —   a    allusion to Trump  —   is seen decapitated on the ground in a pool of blood. “Cash is the poor man’s money,” the singer roars before launching into the chorus. “Right now we’re in such a state of confusion when it comes to religion, politics, sexuality, and how they all tie together, and it’s being turned into a circus and a sideshow —  and that’s something that I’ve been described as a ringleader of,” the singer told the Daily Beast. “It seems like a time for me as an artist, and as an American artist, to make something that causes a new set of questions to arise that aren’t simply statements. ” “SAY10,” is the title tune from Manson’s forthcoming 10th studio album. The    shock rocker says he has more faith that his music could make a political impact, rather than his vote. “I don’t think that, as an artist, I can make as much of a difference voting as I can the commentaries I make in music on my next record, Say10,” he said. Manson previously told the Daily Beast he would not vote for either Clinton or Trump this year. “That doesn’t make me a coward or make me a failure as an American because I don’t want to make a choice I want to be a part of not choosing on this one,” he said. “I just don’t agree with either pile of sh*t that’s on the menu. ”   Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson