A left wing activist has bared all to a Norwegian documentary crew about his rape at the hands of a Somalian migrant, and his despair at seeing the man deported. [An active member of the Norwegian Socialist Left Party (SV) who described himself as an ardent “feminist and  ” explained the difficulty he experienced accepting that he had been anally raped by a male migrant. He said he didn’t blame the man for the attack, and regretted the fact he had been sent back to Somalia.  Describing the process of reconciling his personally held beliefs, young SV activist Karsten Nordal Hauken said the experience left him “feeling nothing” reports Norwegian state broadcaster NRK. Attacked as a young man, his rapist was convicted six months after the fact with DNA evidence removed from Mr. Hauken’s body at the time of his rape, and fingerprints taken from his bedroom. The Somalian male was later caught when he was found to be carrying a knife in public and his fingerprints were a match. Although he protested his innocence and claimed he had been enjoying a consensual relationship with Mr. Hauken, the migrant was sentenced to four and a half years in prison. After the completion of his jail term, the man was deported back to Somalia, something which his victim greeted with mixed emotions. Speaking to NRK ahead of a new documentary series about young people in Norway dealing with mental illness, Mr. Hauken said of the moment when he was told by telephone at work that his attacker was to be deported: “I was a bit taken by surprise by this message. “But I remained calm enough to tell the manager that I had to go. The tears, they came the moment I sat in the car. I felt a relief and joy that he was going away forever. I felt that the Norwegian government took on the responsibility to exercise the ultimate revenge, like an angry father who confronts a child abuser. “But I also got a strong sense of guilt and responsibility. I was the reason why he should not have to leave Norway, and heading for a very uncertain future in Somalia. He had already served his sentence in prison. Should he now be punished again? And this time much harder?” Mr. Hauken found himself unable to blame his attacker, saying “he is not responsible for his actions”. Rather than the rapist being in charge of his own destiny, he said he was merely “a product of an unjust world. A product of an upbringing marked by war and deprivation” and said that rather than the attack being sexually motivated, it was all about “exerting power” over him. The attack had not in any way dulled his   politics, either. Mr. Hauken said: “I stand rock solid in my opinion that people like him need our help. I want us to continue to help refugees with such a background  …     For I am a human being first, and not a Norwegian. No, I’m part of the world, and the world is unfortunately unfair”. This is not the first example of leftist political activists allowing their close proximity to the migrant communities which they strive so hard to defend to cause them harm. Breitbart London reported last year on the   stabbing of an open borders, pro mass migration activist in Dresden. Standing outside a   the student was jumped and stabbed in the back by a gang of North Africans. He said that the event had left him feeling “very sad” and he hoped it wouldn’t be used to demonise migrants. Another young activist fallen victim to their own politics was one woman volunteering at a migrant camp on the   border. While the migrants living at the facility held a party, she was cornered in a   and gang raped by a group of African males, her screams unheard over the music. Concious that her attack could be used to damage the peaceful reputation of migrants, she decided to cover up her own rape. 