With   Railroad service expected to be disrupted for several days after a fire damaged a stretch of track in East Harlem, government officials on Wednesday questioned why a garden center under the tracks was using flammable substances. The fire on Tuesday at the Urban Garden Center on Park Avenue was caused by a fuel spill when workers were refilling a generator, fire officials said. The blaze then tore through an area filled with combustible materials, said Jim Long, a Fire Department spokesman. “Everything in there was pretty much incinerated,” he said. Firefighters removed propane tanks from the business, Mr. Long said, but it was unclear whether any had exploded in the fire. The business had not been issued any permits for the handling or storage of fuel or propane, Mr. Long said. Asked about the propane tanks in an interview on NY1, Thomas F. Prendergast, the chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, said the matter demanded investigation. “Should we have material like that stored under such a vital, critical piece of infrastructure?” he said. “That’s a question that needs to be asked and answered. ” The fire damaged the railroad’s elevated structure, causing train service to be suspended during the evening rush. On Wednesday, trains were running on a limited Saturday schedule, creating arduous delays for commuters. Full service was not likely to resume until Friday, officials said. While workers made repairs on Wednesday, trains were running on two outer tracks, and two inner tracks were closed. New York City owns the property under the tracks, and the city’s Economic Development Corporation manages a lease held by the Urban Garden Center. Tenants must adhere to “all relevant laws and regulations,” the agency’s senior vice president, Anthony Hogrebe, said in a statement. “If anything is found to have been in violation, we will take swift and appropriate action,” he said. Senator Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut, a Democrat, echoed Mr. Prendergast’s concerns and called on federal safety officials to investigate the fire. Mayor Bill de Blasio said on Wednesday that he had not known that the Economic Development Corporation managed the property, but said that it was appropriate for businesses to be located under the tracks and praised the row of shops along Park Avenue, known as La Marqueta. He said the city would examine safety precautions there. “If there is anything we need to strengthen, we will,” Mr. de Blasio told reporters. At the garden center on Wednesday morning, workers loaded wooden planks and charred debris into a demolition truck to be crushed. A separate part of the garden center remained operational, with nearly a dozen chickens clucking in a coop and an array of trees and flowers crowded between bags of concrete mix and mulch. Workers declined to comment on the fire. Dwayne Thomas, an emergency medical worker who has lived in East Harlem for 10 years, said he had been wary of the garden center for some time, especially since a deadly gas explosion nearby in 2014. The explosion, which destroyed two apartment buildings and killed eight people, occurred on Park Avenue near 116th Street, a short distance from where the fire broke out on Tuesday. The Urban Garden Center was heavily damaged in that blast. “Why would you put a bunch of flammable items below a train track?” said Mr. Thomas, 55. “The whole thing is a recipe for disaster. ” Luis Diaz said he was flipping burgers at Kyle Restaurant and Grill on Park Avenue on Tuesday evening when he heard a loud explosion followed by a series of smaller blasts. He rushed outside to see plumes of black smoke billowing from the train tracks between 117th and 118th Streets. Mr. Diaz said he had gone to get a fire extinguisher but soon realized the extent of the inferno. “It was terrifying,” he said. “We were all caught by surprise. It just got worse and worse. ” The  ’s Harlem, Hudson and New Haven lines were running with delays of 60 to 80 minutes on Wednesday. On Thursday, the railroad planned to run additional trains to provide about 75 percent of its usual weekday service, officials said. At Grand Central Terminal on Wednesday morning, Adam Vaughn said his typical   commute had taken three hours on Tuesday night. Mr. Vaughn, who lives in the East Village and works in Stamford, Conn. was not optimistic about the days ahead. “I’m not even close to getting to work on time today,” he said. “I might work from home for the rest of the week. ”