NEW YORK CITY, New York  —   Despite the fact that terrorism has torn New York City, London and especially Paris apart, all three cities’ mayors argued for bringing in more unscreened “refugees” in a joint oped in the New York Times as the United Nations General Assembly meets here this week. [New York’s Bill De Blasio, London’s Sadiq Khan and Paris’s Anne Hidalgo wrote the joint oped pushing for western cities to take in more refugees, and it was published just days after terror incidents both here and in Minnesota.  “World leaders are gathering in New York this week for the United Nations General Assembly, and at the top of their agenda sits a refugee crisis that has reached a level of urgency not seen since World War II,” De Blasio, Khan and Hidalgo wrote. “The United Nations Summit for Refugees and Migrants and President Obama’s Leaders’ Summit on Refugees represent a watershed moment that is putting a global spotlight on the need for an effective response to a growing humanitarian crisis. ” Amazingly, as first noted by LifeZette, the three mayors claim that   “violence” among immigrants and refugees is “vanishingly rare. ” They then proceed to attack anyone who questions their globalist agenda as promoting “xenophobic language. ” “Our shared perspective is informed by the sober awareness of the dangers we face. In the aftermath of an explosive device going off in the Chelsea neighborhood of New York last weekend, and other attacks in cities throughout the world, we recognize that the security of all our residents is paramount in large, open, democratic societies,” they wrote. “But it is wrong to characterize immigrant and refugee communities as radical and dangerous in our experience, militant violence is vanishingly rare. Therefore, we must continue to pursue an inclusive approach to resettlement in order to combat the growing tide of xenophobic language around the globe. Such language will lead only to the increased marginalization of our immigrant communities, and without making us any safer. ” De Blasio’s New York City is just coming off another terror attack, with bombings raising serious concerns about immigration and connections to terrorism according to USA Today. Not only has GOP presidential nominee Donald J. Trump raised concerns about the matter in his address in Florida on Monday, but he’s been joined now by Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and Sen. Marco Rubio ( ) and Reps. Jeff Duncan ( ) Steve King ( ) and Mike McCaul ( ) the chairman of the House’s Homeland Security Committee —  among others —  according to a piece from USA Today’s Alan Gomez. Duncan, a conservative from South Carolina, said that the United States should “indefinitely suspend” immigration of any kind from any country classified by the State Department as terrorist safe havens. Paris —  and other parts of France —  have been ravaged over the past year by radical Islamic terrorism, including one of the deadliest attacks in recent history in November 2015 that claimed 130 lives. Just last year in London, meanwhile, an Islamic   man targeted passengers on the tube in Leytonstone with a knife. Just this month, British authorities foiled a suspected Islamic State plot in west London. That’s not to mention a potential terrorism incident in Russell Square in early August.  This oped comes after Khan warned New Yorkers this week that terror attacks are “part and parcel” to regular life in the West now, and that Americans should just get used to it.