Integration into the job market for migrants has become a major ongoing task for the German government but in one town migrants are refusing to work entirely. [One of the major issues of the migrant crisis is Germany and elsewhere has been the economic impact the massive wave of  migrants will have in Europe. While some experts initially were optimistic about a potential vast new source of skilled labour, most economists have come to the conclusion that the migrants who have arrived are for the most part unskilled and poorly educated.  Yet in own Saxon town, they have moved past the usual barriers but the migrants have declared they don’t want to work anyway, reports OE24. Bernd Pohlers, mayor of the town of Waldenburg told of how he thought creating jobs for the migrants who resided at the asylum home in his town would help alleviate their boredom in waiting for their claims to be processed. The mayor expressed his disappointment that having gone to the trouble of creating seven job opportunities they had been rejected outright by the migrants. The migrants had claimed that they did not have to work at all because they were “guests” of German Chancellor Angela Merkel who many say invited them to Germany last year. “It was subsequently argued by these people that they are guests of Mrs. Merkel and guests do not have to work,” Pohlers said. The town had created the seven jobs to be 20 hours per week and were part of the controversial   an hour job programs for migrants that have been pushed by the Federal government. According to Pohlers the municipality was even willing to split the difference and make sure the migrants were being paid the German minimum wage so they could have extra cash in their pockets. Many German government officials have claimed that the long term effects of mass migration will be a benefit to the German economy, though more economists are arguing it will have the opposite effects. Large corporations in Germany have hired hardly any migrants since the start of the migrant crisis, many arguing that even if migrants have the skills for complex professions, they lack basic German language skills which relegate them to simpler labour and retail positions. Many migrants have expressed a desire to work in Germany but many others have used German hospitality to commit crimes and live a life of luxury that would not be possible in their homelands.