Sex orgies, drug use and other questionable activities are alleged to have taken place at an Islamic kindergarten in Vienna. [The allegations surround a network of Islamic kindergartens run by a man known only as “Abdullah P” who is currently under investigation on suspected charges of fraud.  One of the kindergartens, which are all subsidised by the Austrian tax payer, is said to have housed sex parties and has also been used as a front for selling and manufacturing drugs, as reported by Austrian paper Kronen Zeitung. The kindergarten, located in the Brigittenau suburb of Vienna, is considered the operational “headquarters” of Abdullah P. Information was handed to the police by witnesses of the sex parties and drug use.   Abdullah, who claims to be a “businessman” has been at the centre of controversy before over the   education and integration centres he has ran in the past. Several other Islamic kindergartens he currently runs have also been linked to the teaching of radical Islamist beliefs. The elementary school in Vienna was shut down last year by authorities who said it posed an “imminent danger. ” It is unclear if these are the same schools that employed a Muslim woman who tried to join the Islamic State. The rise in links to radical Islam in Austrian kindergartens had led at least one Austrian academic to say that parallel societies are starting to emerge. The 26   witness who blew the whistle on the sex parties and drugs told prosecutors he learned about them via an online dating site. He said he became friends with one of Abdullah’s colleagues who told him about the wild   parties. The colleague told the witness that he regularly celebrated with Abdullah by having sex parties at the kindergarten on Romano alley, and that they also consumed large quantities of various drugs. The witness also gave names and descriptions of other participants and told how a cleaning lady accidentally discovered “white powder” in a drawer at the facility where children were daily. The facility may also play a role in the drug scene in the area according to police. Police say that a huge cache of 970 marijuana plants, discovered in a Vienna warehouse in January, may have been grown in an adjacent building to the Romano alley kindergarten. Abdullah took over the building shortly after the last tenant went bankrupt in December 2015. Abdullah had told authorities he acquired the building in order to create an Islamic school. The Muslim network of integration centres and faith schools, which Abdullah is the head of, are funded by Viennese tax payers to the tune of five million euros. The initial case against Abdullah revolves around his application for government money by creating false charities and forging documents in order to secure more cash from the taxpayer. Bogus registrations and false invoices led to him lining his own pockets with money that was meant to train kindergarten teachers and care for children. The total loss to the city is projected to amount to millions of euros. Abdullah’s organization collected at least 1. 8 million euros over two years to May 2015.