WASHINGTON, D. C. —  Hillary Clinton knew that the Chinese and Russians were breaking into her Blackberry all the time. [A Clinton campaign staffer sent an email to Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta listing numerous “flags” from Clinton’s paid speeches, many of which occurred behind closed doors with firms like Goldman Sachs. The staffer flagged comments that Clinton made in an April 23, 2014 speech at the University of Connecticut, according to new emails that Wikileaks published from Podesta’s email archive:  CLINTON: But, at the State Department we were attacked every hour, more than once an hour by incoming efforts to penetrate everything we had. And that was true across the U. S. government. And we knew it was going on when I would go to China, or I would go to Russia, we would leave all of our electronic equipment on the plane, with the batteries out, because this is a new frontier. And they’re trying to find out not just about what we do in our government. They’re trying to find out about what a lot of companies do and they were going after the personal emails of people who worked in the State Department. Breitbart News reported that Clinton knew her Blackberry was insecure. The State Department warned her about a security “vulnerability” with her Blackberry on her first official trip as Secretary of State, when she visited China and other Asian countries. Clinton was investigated by the FBI for violating the Espionage Act by allegedly allowing national defense information to be “lost, stolen, abstracted, or destroyed” through gross negligence. In another speech to the Goldman Sachs Builders and Innovators Summt, Clinton complained that State Department rules involving “security issues” were preventing her from using cool technologies: “We have a lot of difficulties in getting —  when I got to the State Department, we were so far behind in technology, it was embarrassing. And, you know, people were not even allowed to use mobile devices because of security issues and cost issues, and we really had to try to push into the last part of the 20th Century in order to get people functioning in 2009 and ‘10. ”