Wednesday on HLN’s “Dr. Drew,” while discussing  a video in which a Floridian TV personalty said she felt guilty because she did not feel bad for the officers who were shot, psychologist Spirit compared the reaction to the ambush murder of five Dallas police officers to kids on a playground feeling relief that a playground bully was punched.  Partial transcript as follows: ABRAMS: “We are talking to the woman who made a controversial Facebook video after two fatal shootings by cops and the ambush executions of five Dallas police officers. I’m Dan Abrams in for Dr. drew tonight. Spirit, you wanted to get in before. I apologize not letting you in before. What do you make of it? SPIRIT: Dan, you’re an attorney so what you do is exactly what you did. You just grilled that young lady and put her in the hot seat. I’m a mental health professional. What I do, I would say is wrongly so. From a mental health perspective was a woman grappling with coming to terms with feeling something that she wasn’t comfortable with feeling. She is losing her humanity and it disturbed her. Wait, Dan. I listened to that whole segment. I want to put this in terms of the youngest person in your audience can understand. Pretend this is day care or elementary school. There is a bully that is kicking your butt every single day that you go to class. Finally, after you get your butt kicked  so many times, someone rushes in and knocks that bully down. ABRAMS: Spirit, you realize what you just did? You’re comparing this guy who ambushed the police officers to someone who rescues from a bully?  You are going to end up like Kalyn. SPIRIT: Hear me. listened to what I’m saying. You can only get slapped around but so many times and turn the other cheek. We only have four. Black people in this country have been smacked on all four over and over againABRAMS: Spirit, you’re digging deeper here. Let me see if I’m the youngest person in the room and I actually understood, I want to understand what you just said. You’re saying after you’ve been kicked around, young black men, black children, black women  …    . Spirit, please. Bottom line is you’re saying that black men, children, women are being mistreated in this country and then they are the ones being bullied. The hero who pushes the bully ambushes five police officers? Can’t you understand? SPIRIT:  You missed it again. Imagine that you are the person that has been bullied. Okay? Now imagine someone comes in and and smacks the bully down.   …    you’re missing the point again. I’m not talking about the bully. You on the ground. Would you have empathy for the bully or would you feel relief that someone had helped you? (  Mediaite) Follow Pam Key On Twitter @pamkeyNEN