On Wednesday’s edition of Breitbart News Daily on SiriusXM, Clinton Cash author and Government Accountability Institute (GAI) President Peter Schweizer discussed the latest GAI report about the Obama Justice Department’s funneling of money to   groups using fines levied against financial institutions. [Breitbart    and SiriusXM host Alex Marlow described the report as exposing the Justice Department of “quite literally extorting companies to fund   activists. ”  “When I first joined Breitbart,” Schweizer recalled, “There was a scandal called Pigford where the federal government was basically taking taxpayer money and giving it to people who were claiming to be victims who were not victims and giving them billions of dollars. This is in that tradition. ” He explained: What’s really happening here is simple. You’ve got large financial institutions on Wall Street, you’ve got banks like Bank of America, who have in some cases committed financial crimes. I think some of them are real, some of them may not be, but set that aside for a minute. The Department of Justice has gone after them and basically said, ‘You committed these offenses, you’ve got to pay restitution in the form of billions of dollars.’ Okay, they committed the crime, they ought to pay that. Now, ostensibly that money, those billions of dollars, are supposed to go to the victims of their financial crimes. If your Wall Street broker committed fraud, you’re supposed to be made whole with this money, and the rest of it is supposed to go to taxpayers. The problem is the Obama Justice Department has been diverting literally more than $650 million to   groups. They do it under the guise of, “Well, you know, if this bank discriminated against lenders racially, we’re going to give this money to these     housing groups to help deal with the problem. ” But that’s not what’s going on. These housing groups are advocacy groups. They’re   organizations. They are registering voters and getting voters out to the voting booth. And they specifically target what they call   progressive voters. So this is taking the Department of Justice, which we’ve experienced so much in recent years has been politicized by this Administration, even further to where now the Department of Justice is transferring money to   groups  —   in an effort, frankly I think, to influence this election. Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00 a. m. to 9:00 a. m. Eastern. LISTEN: 