CLEVELAND, OH  —   Medea Benjamin,   of the infamous Code Pink leftwing antiwar activist group, admitted in an interview with this reporter that her organization will attempt to infiltrate the Republican National Convention here this week with the goal of disrupting the event. [Code Pink has a history of infiltrating and briefly disrupting events, including the confirmation hearing for CIA Director John Brennan a Senate hearing at which Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel was testifying about the threat posed by the Islamic State Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s 2011 address to Congress, and many others.  Benjamin and Code Pink activists were protesting against the   one percent on the streets of Cleveland today. Asked if her group will try to infiltrate the RNC to disrupt it, Benjamin replied, “Well, we always try to get into the conventions. We never know if we are successful or not. But for us a disruption is holding out a banner. ” “Are you going to try to get in?” I asked. “Yeah,” Benjamin replied. Bumped into my friend Medea Benjamin of @codepink outside RNC hall. pic. twitter.   —   Aaron Klein (@AaronKleinShow) July 18, 2016,  Benjamin explained why she says her group was protesting in Cleveland: Well, we are in Cleveland just like we are going to Philadelphia to both the Democrat and Republican conventions. We are part of this nation that feels very dissatisfied with our political system. With the corruption of money and politics. With the direction that this country is going in. We are a peace group and so we have been protesting the endless wars that the US has been in. And we feel like these are not stopping extremism, but actually spreading it and helping the weapons manufacturers more than anyone else. And so we are on the streets here. Sometimes satirical like today we are dressed as the   saying that we support corporations because they are people too. And sometimes serious. But our message is stop the endless wars and we need to have a country that really represents the best interests of the majority of people. Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio. ” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.