During a recent interview with the FOX Business Network’s Stuart Varney, Academy   actor and vocal Donald Trump supporter Jon Voight shared his thoughts on the 2016 presidential campaign and what it’s like to be a conservative working in Hollywood. [Voight, who spoke in support of Trump last Friday at the Values Voter Summit in Washington, D. C. says the candidate is a “problem solver” who’s “used to taking on impossible jobs. ”  “I’m a Trump supporter for quite a long time,” the actor told Varney Wednesday morning. “I’ve seen him a couple of times on the road, and he’s got a tremendous amount of energy. I see him at the end of a day when he jumps through three states, and at 11 o’clock at night he looks exactly the same he started at 7 o’clock in the morning. ” Asked about Trump’s chances of winning the state of California, Voight relied: “I don’t think there’s any place Donald Trump can’t win. ” “He loves people and he’s very, very considerate and his heart goes out to people,” Voight said. “He’s not making it up when he sits with somebody who’s suffering something and you can see him feeling for them. This is not an act. ” When he’s not out campaigning for Trump, Voight is busy fulfilling his   duties on Showtime’s hit crime drama Ray Donovan. The interview quickly shifted from presidential politics to what life is like for an openly conservative actor in Hollywood. “I have many friends in Hollywood, people know I come to work, I don’t proselytize,” Voight said, adding: “There are, by the way, many, many conservatives in Hollywood, they just aren’t very vocal. ” A skeptical Varney asked, “Is that accurate? I mean we don’t hear from them very often  —   I can name a couple, here and there. ” “Well, they kind of keep their heads down a little bit, but there are a whole lot of them,” Voight responded. Voight was an early supporter of Trump’s White House run. The    star formally endorsed Trump in March in an exclusive interview with Breitbart News. In June, Voight told the Daily Beast that he “would like to support [Trump] in any way” that he can, adding that he’s been “in touch” with the candidate’s campaign.   Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @JeromeEHudson