According to the rules of modern marketing, every company, like every   superhero or extreme villain, must be able to communicate an origin story. Among   origin stories, while meant to lend distinction, tend instead to achieve a blurring sameness. Someone  —   a visionary  —   experiences or observes a material privation that prompts an epiphany. This typically happens while on a sofa, or in a bar or a dorm room or on a hilltop in Bhutan, after which the visionary, instead of merely saying “huh,” wondering about the next episode of “Vanderpump Rules,” and never giving the revelation another thought, begins the task of mounting an empire. The story of Warby Parker more or less conforms to this narrative: One of the young   lost his glasses on a backpacking trip, discovered that they were too expensive to replace, squinted for months and then, with friends who could relate, built a company in 2010 with the goal of producing   glasses that didn’t cost many hundreds of dollars. Warby Parker has done very well, opening stores across the country that evoke libraries (another, most recently in Cobble Hill, Brooklyn) and generally distilling   branding to its essence. Each pair of glasses seems to say, “I don’t know anyone who has ever met anyone who has ever thought about voting for Donald Trump. ” Imagine how you would feel, though, if you had been selling eyewear for decades, and your origin story dated not to the era of Malia Obama’s   years but to the period of Ellis Island arrivals and mass emigration from Minsk. Both Moscot and Cohen’s Fashion Optical are New York institutions that began as pushcart businesses, with immigrant founders  —   Hyman Moscot and Abe Cohen  —   selling eyeglasses on the Lower East Side of Manhattan in the early 20th century. Their flagship stores are   from each other on Orchard and Delancey Streets. Moscots and Cohens still run the businesses, and they have been forced to respond to Warby Parker’s Occupy Eyewear agenda. This month, Gary Gerber, the host of the Internet radio program “The Power Hour,” which bills itself as “optometry’s only live radio show,” interviewed Harvey Moscot, who explained to listeners outside New York that as a purveyor of eyewear in Manhattan, “you are at the center of optical chaos. ” Moscot has responded to the feverish competition by outstylizing everyone else, remodeling its Lower East Side store three years ago to look like a steampunk fantasy island. The vibe is so steeped in history and authenticity that it makes Warby Parker look like a T. G. I. Friday’s. Moscot has also expanded internationally, opening a branch in London in December. Cohen’s faces the challenge of trying to seem hip as a franchise business with 130 stores. Cohen’s, unlike Moscot and Warby Parker, sells brands that are not its own (Gucci, Tom Ford and so on). A few weeks ago, however, it began selling a house line called the Collective simple frames that are meant to look as if they come with a free Smith Corona, and sell for under $100. Cohen’s also remodeled its flagship store, outfitting it with subway tiles and making it look like the kind of place a recent graduate of a   liberal arts college might come to shop. Recently, I sat down with Bob Cohen, who runs Cohen’s, at Katz’s Delicatessen on the Lower East Side. The place was packed at lunchtime and has thrived by not changing anything, not recalibrating, not making vegan pastrami. In the 1970s, the neighborhood was excluded from laws that kept many stores closed on Sundays, and Cohen’s made the most of it. People would come from Westchester County and New Jersey and Long Island to shop, and Cohen’s began offering   service so that customers could go home with their glasses the same afternoon. So how can a business like Cohen’s distinguish itself in this particular moment? It is Mr. Cohen’s view that his company can prevail. “You don’t go to Warby Parker for fashion,” he said. “It’s a very basic product. ” This, of course, misreads the extent to which antifashion is fashion. As an aesthetic, antifashion as fashion is annoying and alienating, as many people who are over 40, not particularly slender or less prestigiously schooled can attest when visiting a Warby Parker outlet. There is democracy in a relatively low price, but a sense of exclusion is woven into the gestalt. Are you really smart enough to be shopping at Warby Parker? Have you read even a fraction of the books displayed? It’s dispiriting in a way to see   chain stores feel as if they must contort themselves to stay vital in what is becoming an ever more polarized retail culture. A store like Cohen’s never makes you feel like a loser. Maybe it should post that outside of every branch, and declare a social victory.