The Islamic State is pushing a new video through its propaganda channels that celebrates the Brussels bombing, urges jihadis to “rise up” and “claim your victory,” and among several other media clips quotes Donald Trump describing Brussels as “one of the most beautiful cities in the world 20 years ago,” but now “it’s an absolute horror show. ”[The UK Mirror relates the full Trump quote as, “Brussels was one of the great cities, it was one of the most beautiful cities of the world 20 years ago, it was amazing actually, and safe. Now it’s a horror show, it’s an absolute horror show. ”  The UK Express translates the title of the video as “The Exile of Islam And The Brussels Attacks,” and notes it is similar to a video posted to ISIS social media after the Paris massacre. After the snippets from Western media at the beginning of the video, it segues into footage of the Brussels attack and its aftermath, with narration in Arabic.  The Mirror translates this as follows: “The regulations of Jihad in the cause of Allah are clear and there are no reasonable doubts about it. And Quran has decided waging Jihad against the disbelievers until they give the jizyah willingly while they are humbled and the Islamic State has asked them to give it but they refused. ” “Yet the Crusade jets including the Belgian are still bombing the Muslims in Iraq, killing children, women, old, and destroying mosques and schools. ” “But the calamity is the exile that the people of Islam live at tip most of them managed to deny jihad against the disbelievers and deny the blessed forays in Crusade Europe and other places, including the last foray of Brussels. ” The Express notes the English subtitles appearing on the screen are a translation of the song playing in the background: “Brothers rise up! Claim your victory! Haha! Let’s go for jihad!” International Business Times notes that the presence of   ISIS militants “practicing their shooting skills in the desert,” and the onscreen translations provided in the video, suggest it is “meant for recruitment purposes. ”