I was 26 and   on the platform of the uptown 6 train in New York. My messenger bag had flipped over my head. A constellation of trampled, blackened gum wads hovered inches from my face. My hands and feet: numb. I hadn’t tripped. No one had pushed me. I’d been moving through the human flow of rush hour like everyone else, heading from my day job at an educational publisher to my night job writing copy for a marketing firm. I’d been   it for a year while my wife was in graduate school, balancing two sets of deadlines and workloads, coming home close to midnight for most of each week. As strangers helped me to a nearby bench, then pointed out the line of blood running from my elbow, I knew what had happened. I’d been warned. Two years earlier, I had walked into an emergency room with what I thought was a migraine, and discovered that a benign tumor had ruptured on my pituitary gland, which sends signals to the body’s other glands to brew hormones. As a result, my body was no longer making any hormones, including adrenocorticotropic hormone, or ACTH. That in particular has worried my specialists. My body no longer responds to stress like everyone else’s. It fails to send ACTH into the bloodstream to battle the adrenaline gusts that fuel   situations. Basically, I don’t have a    response, and stress can trigger sharp fatigue, low blood pressure, deranged cognition or an “adrenal crisis,” which, in its worst cases, can wash over my body like a stroke, and can even be fatal. I was ordered to take cortisol pills at strategic times each day, and to never, ever break that schedule. Every few weeks I went to my endocrinologist for hormone tuneup sessions, and at the start of each one she asked, “How’s your stress?” The lies I told her (“Not a problem! ”) were noble, I thought, and I even came to believe them myself. I was fine. Stress was fine. Stress was everywhere  —   how could it not be? At my day job, I took smoke breaks with   on our building’s rooftop and rushed through   conversations made of almost nothing but stress comparisons: the creeping deadlines, the tasks we juggled, all of us proud of our ability to spread ourselves ever thinner. At my moonlighting job, my   were struggling actors, filmmakers and writers who used their days to audition, or pitch magazines, or assemble their reels. The stress we compared there was more about what we didn’t have, and what we were suffering through to get it. I convinced myself that I was good at stress. I knew its rhythms (I thought) and I liked the exhaustion it produced, whether or not it was healthy. Stress was seductive in that way  —   a currency that proved my worth far more than my low paychecks did. But that subway platform fall shook something in me. It drew a boundary I couldn’t unsee. In the weeks and months afterward, I had more episodes like that one. They were more pointed, and nearly as debilitating. A misstep in an email to clients, a break from a project plan, even the tiniest workplace realities triggered a similar paralysis. I typed emails with numb hands, grew unable to track the simplest details, then grew anxious at the mistakes I’d caused, frozen in a high, swampy anxiety that I had created and couldn’t escape. I was exhausted and confused. I couldn’t sleep. “Take more cortisol when you know stress is coming,” my doctor said. But who can truly know that? Stress’s most insidious power is its ability, like water, to find the cracks and then flood right through them. I had to make a change, but to what? Stress seemed to be the lifeblood of a productive career. What did it mean, now, to have to avoid it at all costs? The best answer I could find: Quit everything. In the eight years after that platform fall, I quit 12 jobs. Freelance jobs, staff jobs, administrative jobs, management jobs. Some I hated, some I loved, but I became a serial quitter, working hard until the stress snowballed enough to pose a serious threat, and then I was gone. I became a master of the   notice. I took a perverse pride in it  —   I’m the best quitter in the game nobody quits jobs better than I  —   while I knew my reputation was being irreparably damaged. I gained a reputation among friends as a career flake, and I felt myself acquiring a new label  —   one I had never had before: lazy. By my   the constant shifts from job to job were hard on my finances, my résumé and ultimately my marriage. I’d taken that poisonous job stress and relocated it to my home, and it flooded through the cracks there, too. My wife began to lose trust in my explanations for why I needed to leave every job, and soon I did as well. My hormone condition was below the skin, and so hard to track. It turned me timid and unsure in a way I hadn’t been before. Was my illness the real problem, or was it me? “Find something easy that you don’t mind being bad at,” my wife said. It made a brilliant kind of sense, so I took a   coordinator gig at a nonprofit with a tiny staff and a simple focus. Maybe it was a case of busted confidence, or knowing my health’s boundaries and the danger of crossing them, but the results at that job were the same as what had come before. By the time my wife woke, at 3 a. m. to my pacing at the foot of our bed, thinking aloud through a thick, adrenal fog about some minor detail I’d forgotten to handle for an event the next day, we both began, sadly, to consider that my most productive career choice might be to chase no career at all. One resignation and one transition document later, I was back on another search, weary and defeated, when job No. 13 came my way: developing tests for a   education center. The work reminded me of the kind I had done in my 20s, at the educational publisher and the TV marketing company. But the people here were calm and quiet and tended to leave at 5 p. m. My boss was a former college Spanish teacher who ended each conversation by saying, “It is what it is,” or, “That’s my story, and I’m sticking to it. ” She said she’d train me on everything, that she had a good feeling. Still, I feared letting her down. So when, weeks in, I found I had formatted some specs incorrectly on a very large product delivery, I fell at once into a spell of anxiety and inner fracture.   and nauseated (again) I rushed to her office to confess my errors, then prepared to quit (again). She took a deep breath. “Do you know what my husband does for work?” she said. “He’s a military surgeon. He sees people die. Every single day. ” “Here it comes,” I thought, and braced for an implication about my work ethic, or my toughness. “Stress is a part of life. Deal with it,” she would say, as though I hadn’t spent the last eight years doing exactly that. “This job? Nobody dies at this job,” she said. “Everything can be fixed. ” After that, she and I calmly worked out a plan. We did the same thing the next day, and the day after that, until soon my work became what proved to be the rarest of all career currencies: just a job. Nothing more, nothing less, and I hung on to it like grim death.