Donald Trump was caught on video making some naughty remarks, and the political and media elites are in an uproar  —   an orgy of hypocrisy. [This is much ado about nothing. It’s how guys talk. Nevertheless, the Washington Post crowed: “With less than a month to go, a major party is walking away from its nominee. ” No, the people are walking away from the party. If the GOP abandons Donald Trump now  —   a month before the election  —   there will be no coming back from that. One month to go and these vicious cowards jump ship?  John McCain, Mark Kirk, Kelly Ayotte, George Pataki  —   RINOs who never stood up for conservative principles are the Republicans disavowing Trump now. The GOP will not recover from this. We had to swallow their failures  —   RINO McCain, spineless weak sister Mitt Romney  —   and we did. We worked hard to elect them, but they were and are failures. The people picked Trump over the objections of the elites. And the elites would rather set our house on fire than back the people’s candidate. If the elite right went after the opposition the way they’ve gone after Trump, they wouldn’t be limping their way to oblivion. The uproar over Trump’s remarks is manufactured and opportunistic outrage. For example, I was actually surprised by the decorum in Trump’s conversation. He was respectful of the married woman’s refusal. He was surprised that if you’re famous, you can get all the sex you want. He was unashamedly heterosexual in his desires. He wanted to grab p —  y, not force someone’s head “down” a la Bill Clinton. He appreciates “beautiful” and wants to kiss her face, not have her immediately perform oral sex a la Bill Clinton, and he wants to be pleasing to her with Tic Tacs for his breath  —   very considerate. A pass, a kiss, is not rape. For that, you’d have to ask Juanita Broaddrick. The gross betrayal is not Trump’s alpha male banter, but these turncoats in the party. Did they ever take such a defiant stand against the treasonous actions of Obama and his running dogs? Trump is an alpha male. Gutless, weak metrosexuals like Barack Obama have almost destroyed America, and now the world is in chaos because of their actions. Trump was quite right  —   this is all a diversion from the real issues. He said in his statement: Let’s be honest  —   we’re living in the real world. This is nothing more than a distraction from the important issues we’re facing today. We are losing our jobs, we’re less safe than we were eight years ago, and Washington is totally broken. Hillary Clinton and her kind have run our country into the ground. I’ve said some foolish things, but there’s a big difference between the words and actions of other people. Bill Clinton has actually abused women, and Hillary has bullied, attacked, shamed and intimidated his victims. There is no comparison between Trump and the Clintons. None. Not only has Bill Clinton abused women. Hillary Clinton routinely abuses her secret service detail, once screaming at an agent: “If you want to remain on this detail, get your f***ing ass over here and grab those bags!” When one said to her, “Good morning, ma’am,” she replied: “F**k off! It’s enough that I have to see you ****  every day, Just do your G*damn job and keep your mouth shut. ” The selective outrage is astonishing. The liberals corrupted the culture. No one cares. Trump looks cool. They live by the sword and they will die by the sword. All of a sudden the liberals are prudish? Barack Obama says, “Gotta have them ribs and p —  y too,” and crickets don’t even bother to chirp. On the same day that the “shocked” Washington Post released the naughty Trump video, they ran a     news story how   hurts prostitutes. Hollywood, too? Who stood by and did nothing why child actors were raped and trafficked? Hollywood actors and their sexcapades make Donald Trump look like a choirboy. Then there are the rappers, the darlings of the establishment that are shocked at what Trump said. “Got that super soaker, p*ssy pop like cola   it’s tighter than a choka, got ’em smilin’ like the Joka”  —  Trump just got the Nicki Minaj voters. “Imagine if I did that with your pearly on my tongue   I make that p*ssy talk to me   I could make it jump”  —   Trump will attract Lil Wayne voters. “She make that assclap dancing like she on d —  Bring it back I thru a stack, that’s a lucky bitch”  —   Trump gets the Juicy J featuring, 2 Chainz and Lil Wayne vote. Kanye West said: “I feel like Taylor Swift still owe me sex   Why? I made that bitch famous. ” The Trump video will attract the Kimye vote. Trump must prevail. Trump has stood against Muslim migration. The consequences for American women if uncontrolled migration continues to take place will be far worse than Trump’s macho talk. It’s the end of us  —   the end of freedom  —   if Hillary Clinton becomes President. Pamela Geller is the President of the American Freedom Defense Initiative (AFDI) publisher of PamelaGeller. com and author of The   Presidency: The Obama Administration’s War on America and Stop the Islamization of America: A Practical Guide to the Resistance. Follow her on Twitter here. Like her on Facebook here.