WASHINGTON, D. C.  —   Trumpocrats PAC’s executive director, Christian Rickers, is demanding that Hillary Clinton, the Democratic nominee for president, offer an unconditional apology to the millions of Americans she insulted on Friday night —  including Democrats like himself —  when she called them a “basket of deplorables. ”[“Trumpocrats PAC demands that Hillary Clinton offer a clear, unequivocal apology to the hundreds of thousands of Democrats, independents and other voters who are supporting Donald Trump,” Rickers said in a statement that will be released shortly, and was provided to Breitbart News ahead of its public release.   He added: Her insulting, elitist   is directed at those who disagree with her globalist policies which have laid waste on vast areas of our country. From the mills and mines of Pennsylvania to rusting auto manufacturing facilities in Ohio to the shuttered factories in Virginia and North Carolina, Clinton’s policies have stripped workers of their dignity and destroyed families by exporting jobs and leaving communities with no hope for the future. Millions of Americans have valid reasons to oppose her candidacy and her globalist policies. They are not deplorable. They are the Trumpocrats. Rickers’ statement comes in response to Hillary Clinton’s attack on at least “half” of Donald Trump supporters —  millions of people —  whom she labeled “irredeemable” and in the “basket of deplorables” who are “racist, sexist, homophobic, xenophobic, Islamophobic, you name it. ”  Rickers runs an organization —  Trumpocrats —  representing hundreds of thousands, perhaps millions, of Democrats nationwide who are leaving their party en masse to, instead, vote for Donald Trump, the Republican nominee for president. Rickers is a lifelong Democrat and voted for Sen. Bernie Sanders in the Democratic primary in Virginia, and, like many other Trumpocrats, has not supported a Republican until Hillary Clinton became the Democratic nominee and Trump offered such disaffected Democrats a way out of their party. The PAC is leading efforts in key swing states like Pennsylvania, Ohio, Virginia, Michigan, Wisconsin, and others to free Democrats from the Democratic Party under Clinton and to encourage them to vote for Trump for president. In addition to calling out Hillary Clinton for her “deplorables” comment —  for which she has still not apologized, only saying she “regrets” saying it about half of Trump’s supporters, while declining to specify exactly how many Americans she thinks are “deplorables” —  Rickers’ team has also released a video going after her husband, former President Bill Clinton, for attacking the “coal people” across America. WATCH TRUMPOCRATS’ PAC AD ON THE CLINTON WAR ON COAL: “The United States has lost over 100, 000 coal mining jobs in the past 30 years,” Rickers said in his statement, adding: According to The Washington Post, 25 years ago 1 out of every 14 jobs in West Virginia was a coal mining job. Today, it’s 1 in 28. Communities have been crushed, families destroyed. During the same 30 year period, manufacturing has declined over 50 percent. That’s why working people, Democrats, independents, and thousands who have never even voted before, are rallying together to support Donald Trump as Trumpocrats. Trumpocrats 527 SuperPAC is targeting key voting blocs in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Florida, Virginia, and North Carolina. Many pundits and campaign experts agree that Trumpocrats in these swing states will determine the outcome of the 2016 election.