Visitors to the gorilla exhibit at the Cincinnati Zoo were screaming, panicked. Somehow, a    boy had slipped through the exhibit’s barrier on Saturday afternoon and was now being dragged around like a toy by a hulking silverback gorilla. In videos of the encounter posted to Twitter, a woman can be heard calling to the sobbing child: “Mommy loves you! I’m right here!” After about 10 excruciating minutes, witnesses said, zoo workers shot and killed the animal, named Harambe. The boy, who was hurt but not severely, was taken to a hospital and released on Saturday night, zoo officials said. “It was pure panic,” said Brittany Nicely, 29, who was there with her two children. Ms. Nicely said that out of the corner of her eye she spotted the boy on the wrong side of wooden and wire barriers along the edge of the enclosure. She reached for him, she said, but not in time, and he fell about 10 feet into a shallow moat. Harambe, a teenage western lowland gorilla, then grabbed the child, but his intentions were not clear. At times, he stood over the boy in what appeared to be a protective posture. But then he darted across the water, dragging the child roughly behind him. “He wasn’t throwing him around,” Ms. Nicely said. “He wasn’t mauling him to death, which is what I thought was going to happen. ” The gorilla could have easily crushed the boy at any moment, however, if only by carelessness, she said. Cincinnati Fire Department personnel responding to the scene witnessed the gorilla “violently dragging and throwing the child,” according to an incident report. The department said a zoo employee shot Harambe as the boy was positioned between his legs with a single round from a long rifle. The zoo said in a statement that the decision to use lethal force had been a difficult one. A tranquilizer would have taken several minutes to neutralize the animal, prolonging the risk. The dart could also agitate the animal, the zoo said, and cause a violent reaction. “The zoo security team’s quick response saved the child’s life,” the zoo’s director, Thane Maynard, said. “We are all devastated that this tragic accident resulted in the death of a critically endangered gorilla. This is a huge loss for the zoo family and the gorilla population worldwide. ” The breach raised concerns about the apparent ease with which the boy was able to get into the arms of such a powerful animal. The zoo said in a Facebook post on Sunday that the Gorilla World exhibit met safety guidelines and had experienced no other breach since its opening in 1978. “The barrier that we have in place has been effective for 38 years,” Mr. Maynard said. “Nevertheless, we will study this incident as we work toward continuous improvement for the safety of our visitors and animals. ” Mr. Maynard did not return messages seeking additional comment. The incident also led hundreds of people on social media to question the mother’s culpability, but Ms. Nicely said it would be unfair to judge the mother too harshly. “I don’t feel like it was neglectful,” she said. “She had three other kids that she was with. She had a baby in her arms. It was literally the blink of an eye. ” She added: “I saw it, and I couldn’t even prevent it. It happened so fast. ” Western lowland gorillas are threatened by habitat destruction, disease and poachers, with fewer than 175, 000 left in the wild in Africa, according to the zoo. The zoo described Harambe, who was born in captivity, as an intelligent and curious animal who was on his way to becoming a group leader. On Friday, the day before his death, the zoo celebrated his 17th birthday. On Sunday, visitors left flowers at a gorilla statue inside the zoo.