A Fox News report says Bill Clinton flew with convicted sex offender Jeffrey Epstein in 2002 without any record of a Secret Service detail  —   or any paperwork dismissing those agents from accompanying him. [From Fox News:  Former President Bill Clinton was a much more frequent flyer on a registered sex offender’s infamous jet than previously reported, with flight logs showing the former president taking at least 26 trips aboard the “Lolita Express”  —   even apparently ditching his Secret Service detail for at least five of the flights, according to records obtained by FoxNews. com. Clinton’s presence aboard Jeffrey Epstein’s Boeing 727 on 11 occasions has been reported, but flight logs show the number is more than double that, and trips between 2001 and 2003 included extended junkets around the world with Epstein and fellow passengers identified on manifests by their initials or first names, including “Tatiana. ” The   jet earned its   nickname because it was reportedly outfitted with a bed where passengers had group sex with young girls. “Bill Clinton   …     associated with a man like Jeffrey Epstein, who everyone in New York, certainly within his inner circles, knew was a pedophile,” said Conchita Sarnoff, of the Washington, D. C. based   Alliance to Rescue Victims of Trafficking, and author of an upcoming book on the Epstein case called “TrafficKing. ” “Why would a former president associate with a man like that?”   …     Official flight logs filed with the Federal Aviation Administration show Clinton traveled on some of the trips with as many as 10 U. S. Secret Service agents. However, on a   Asia trip between May 22 and May 25, 2002, not a single Secret Service agent is listed. The U. S. Secret Service has declined to answer multiple Freedom of Information Act requests filed by FoxNews. com seeking information on these trips. Clinton would have been required to file a form to dismiss the agent detail, a former Secret Service agent told FoxNews. com. In response to a separate FOIA request from FoxNews. com, the U. S. Secret Service said it has no records showing agents were ever on the island with Clinton. Read the rest of the story here.