A Santa Barbara County Sheriff’s Department police report taken from a 2003 search at Michael Jackson’s Neverland Ranch residence turned up a cache of photos of naked men and women, animal sex videos and child pornography, all allegedly used to seduce young boys. [Jackson’s alleged,    porn stockpile was the result of a search that was part of an ongoing child sex abuse investigation against the pop singer, according to Radar Online.  “The detectives’ report cites Michael even used sexy photos of his own nephews, who were in the band 3T, in their underwear to excite young boys. ” a private investigator said, according to Radar. At the behest of Santa Barbara County Sheriff’s Detective Craig Bonner, an additional warrant was granted and investigators also searched a rented storage space. In it, police found audio and video tapes, photos, dairies, and several computer hard drives. “The documents collected by the Santa Barbara County Sheriff’s Department paint a dark and frightening picture of Jackson,” one anonymous investigator working on Jackson’s case told Radar. “The documents exposed Jackson as a manipulative,     predator who used blood, gore, sexually explicit images of animal sacrifice and perverse adult sex acts to bend children to his will. ” “He also had disgusting and downright shocking images of child torture, adult and child nudity, female bondage and sadomasochism,” the investigator added. Jackson was accused of molesting a    boy in 1993. The singer settled that case in January 1994. In 2005, Jackson was tried and acquitted of child sex abuse charges. The LAPD and the Los Angeles County Department of Children and Family Services both launched a confidential investigation into Jackson in 2003 and concluded that allegations of child sex abuse brought against the singer were “unfounded. ” In the   report, investigators go into specific detail to describe photos of children being tortured and bleeding. “There is one particularly sick photo of a child holding what appears to be a dead goose bludgeoned to death,” said an insider familiar with the report. “In a book Jackson called Room to Play, there is a deeply disturbing photo of a [murdered child beauty queen] JonBenet Ramsey   with a noose around her neck,” one source told Radar. “There were also photos and videos featuring sadomasochistic sex, bondage, transsexuals  —   chicks with d —  ks. ” Ron Zonen, a former Santa Barbara D. A. who worked on the Michael Jackson prosecution team, told Radar: “A lot of this stuff was used to desensitize the children. ” “We identified five different boys, who all made allegations of sexual abuse,” Zonen continued. “There’s not much question in my mind that Michael was guilty of child molestation. ” Jackson overdosed on propofol and benzodiazepine on June 25, 2009 and died of cardiac arrest.   Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter @jeromeehudson