Here we go again. Muslims in America feign worry and persecution over something that has not even happened, and the enemedia is only too happy to provide a platform for their supremacist whine. [The Huffington Post last week published a piece titled, “Muslim Students Fear They’d Get Deported, Incarcerated Under A President Trump. ” The subtitle: “They could keep us right here and put us all in the same place and make us suffer. ”  That’s rich. Suffer? Real suffering is to be   in a Muslim country living under Islamic law and denied basic human rights. Sam Stein of HuffPo “reports”: “No policy of Donald Trump’s has been as widely divisive and immediately harmful as his proposal to ban Muslims from entering the United States for a temporary period of time. In the abstract, it has prompted immense political backlash, to the point that Trump has muddied the proposal in several telling ways over the past few weeks. ” Backlash? There’s that word again. Backlash for whom, exactly? The jihadists. Halting immigration from jihad regions is common sense. ISIS has been sending an army of jihad soldiers to the West via the recent migration. It would be reckless and suicidal to permit the invaders to immigrate. Back in 2012 our organization, the American Freedom Defense Initiative (AFDI) recommended the following: It made sense then, and it makes sense now. Of course Muslims oppose this  —   which begs the question: whose side are they on? Stein, HuffPo’s senior politics editor, continued: “But more directly, the presumptive Republican nominee’s plank has also affected the lives of numerous Muslim students, families and communities. There have been reports of shootings at mosques, harassment incidents at cafes and bullying in schools ― all directed at American Muslims. ” More myths and lies in order to advance the Islamic agenda. The Huffington Post runs this propaganda on a daily basis, despite the fact that there is little there. The fact is that the most common victims of hate crimes in the U. S. are Jews. Yet we never read about that from the enemedia. Worldwide, antisemitism is at record levels, but we never read that in the enemedia. A good number of these attacks are committed by Muslims. We never read about that, either. Muslim kids bully other children at school (particularly Jewish kids)  —   we never read about that. But Stein plows on with more nonsense: “Those are just the physical and verbal forms of abuse. There are   ones too. Last month, the Huffington Post convened a roundtable with Muslim students and educators at the Mastery Shoemaker Charter School in Philadelphia. During the course of the conversation, the group was asked: How many believe that if Trump were elected president, they would end up having to leave the country, either voluntarily or forcefully?”   abuse. There’s a fresh one. Now the left is beating us with imaginary abuse. It’s insane  —   but this is the Orwellian era the rise of the left has ushered in. At this point, Stein moves in for the kill: More than half of the room raised a hand. After a bit of explanation, a student named Husnaa, who had been sitting quietly in her chair, spoke up. “I see it differently, because I think about Japanese internment camps,” she responded, her words measured and precise. “They could keep us right here and put us all in the same place and make us suffer. I see that as a lot more plausible than shipping us out into the ocean. Round up all the Muslims, start with where,” she trails off a bit. “I don’t like to think about that. ” This insidious piece of propaganda is proof that the indoctrination and brainwashing is working. These Muslim kids should be concerned about the wholesale slaughter being perpetrated in the cause of Islam. These Muslim kids should be calling for programs to expunge from Islamic law the supremacism, hate, violence, and apartheid codified in Islamic texts and teachings. Stein repeats two words from Husnaa’s statement in their own paragraph: “Internment camps. ” “Internment camps,” all by itself, its own paragraph: queue the scary music. This tripe has been drummed into the public by   groups such as Council on   Relations (CAIR) since the mass Islamic slaughter of  . Talk about bogeymen and scaring little children. It’s abuse  —   and this inculcation only creates more isolation and distance from the idea of Americanism, supporting instead the supremacy of Islam. Stein quotes another student saying: “I fear he is going to send us back to Muslim countries outside the U. S. ” And he adds: “These aren’t concerns unique to Philadelphia’s young Muslim community. The Southern Poverty Law Center released a report showing that more than   of teachers reported that their Muslim and immigrant children were worried about what could happen to them and their families after the November election. ” The Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC) is a hate group working furiously to advance the Islamic agenda. They profile patriots, tea party groups, even presidential candidates as hate groups and hate leaders, but not jihad groups. You have to wonder how much Islamic money they get. Stein says of the Muslim students with whom he is speaking that “some had recently converted. Many were just growing comfortable with being Muslim. Trump has disrupted that delicate balance adding genuine fears on top of the occasional bigotry they confront in their lives and those of their families as well. ” Trump is trying to protect this country. Why wouldn’t they embrace that? And why does the Huffington Post think that is such a threat? Stein quotes another student: “I know my parents have a lot of immigration problems, so if Trump does become elected I know they’re probably going to be   …     Well, my dad for example is probably going to be deported if that ever, if he ever becomes president. ” “I know my parents have a lot of immigration problems”  —   HuffPo lets that slide and instead makes a victim of the family. I am more interested in what kind of immigration problems these people have. So are millions of other Americans  —   that’s why they want Trump. Pamela Geller is the President of the American Freedom Defense Initiative (AFDI) publisher of PamelaGeller. com and author of The   Presidency: The Obama Administration’s War on America and Stop the Islamization of America: A Practical Guide to the Resistance. Follow her on Twitter here. Like her on Facebook here.