Dozens of fans of Breitbart Tech editor Milo Yiannopoulos have shown up to offer their support during his press conference currently taking place near the Pulse dance club in Orlando, Florida. [One man could be seen waving a rainbow version of the libertarian Gadsden flag, while a mixture of gay conservatives and male and female fans stood amongst the press, waiting for the event to start.  Milo supporters #OrlandoShooting pic. twitter.   —   Lee Stranahan (@stranahan) June 15, 2016,  The @nero effect pic. twitter.   —   Brandon Darby (@brandondarby) June 15, 2016,  “My views are so out of sync [with others my age] that I’ve lost a few friends just because they’ve called me racist, homophobic, and islamophobic  …     Most of my friends are just stuck to the narrative and everything, and they’re just not willing to look at the facts of things” said one female attendee in a Donald Trump “MAGA” hat, speaking to Breitbart’s Lee Stranahan.  “I would think that a lot of   people who are people of faith, Christian, Catholic, whatever you wanna call it, but since Milo doesn’t fit that exact paradigm of what a person of faith is, he’s gay, he’s fabulous, he’s very flamboyant in what he believes in, I think for me being a Christian and also thinking gay people should have rights is out of the box in some regards to my other very conservative friends. I think that Milo lets us know that you can be   but also have   characteristics and that’s okay”. Many attendees announced that they will be supporting Republican   Donald Trump in the upcoming Presidential elections, and numerous people could be seen wearing his signature “Make America Great Again” hats. On the scene at #PulseNightclub waiting for Milo to speak with a crowd of supporters #OrlandoShooting pic. twitter.   —   Lee Stranahan (@stranahan) June 15, 2016,  This is what the mainstream media does NOT want you to see. @Nero @cnn @MSNBC @realDonaldTrump pic. twitter.   —   Lee Stranahan (@stranahan) June 15, 2016,  Waiting for @Nero to speak #OrlandoShooting pic. twitter.   —   Lee Stranahan (@stranahan) June 15, 2016,  The talk was supposed to have taken place yesterday at the University of Central Florida, however it was shut down by campus police despite the fact that the University’s Muslim Student Association were allowed to invite extreme Islamist Siraj Wahhaj in 2011. Yiannopoulos’ talk was moved to the Ground Zero of the Orlando shootings instead. You can watch the event below: 