Fox News reveals that Donald Trump’s transition team is discussing whether or not they should make Mitt Romney apologize for his personal attacks speech against Trump during the Republican primary season. [“There are conversations going on whether Mitt Romney has to issue some kind of public apology” to Trump, Fox News reporter Ed Henry says.  During a speech in March, Romney criticized Trump’s proposed trade policies, his businesses and called him a “con man,” and “a fraud” and “a phony. ” “His promises are as worthless as a degree from Trump University,” Romney said at the time. “He’s playing the members of the American public for suckers. He gets a free ride to the White House and all we get is a lousy hat. ” But since Trump won the election, Romney is singing a different tune. Romney traveled to Trump’s golf course in New Jersey to meet with Trump last week, raising speculations that he could serve in the administration, even as a possible Secretary of State. After the meeting, Trump said it went “great” while Romney said that he had a “very thorough and   discussion” about the United States and its place in the world. The New York Times reports that there is a debate in Trump’s circle about whether Romney should serve as Secretary of State. “Mr. Trump himself has told aides that he believes Mr. Romney ‘looks the part’ and would make a fine secretary of state,” a senior Trump official told the Times. That’s high praise for the man that Trump ridiculed for walking like a penguin and choking like a dog when he failed to beat Obama in 2012. Asked about the report of dissent within the Trump team over Romney, Trump transition officials dismissed it as “palace intrigue” that “gets a little bit overblown. ” “The president elect is meeting with a number of well qualified potential selections for this important position to share his   foreign policy, some of whom have been made public and others who have not,” transition team spokesperson Jason Miller told reporters.    