Former Texas State Senator Wendy Davis made a final desperate attempt to turn Texas blue in 2016. [Davis, who failed in her own effort to turn Texas blue when she ran for governor in 2014, has been trying to rally the state’s Democrat voters again this election season. In an Election Day message, Davis tweeted a cartoonish “SuperUterus” Hillary Clinton figure with the message “Who’s ready to elect the first woman president today? ?? #ImWitHer #ElectionDay”  Who’s ready to elect the first woman president today? ?? #ImWitHer #ElectionDay pic. twitter.   —   Wendy Davis (@wendydavis) November 8, 2016,  Despite having more than 182, 000 followers on her @wendydavis Twitter account, Davis’ lack of influence showed in her tweet which received less than 700 retweets as of the time of this publication. Breitbart Texas reported on Davis’ prior attempts to stir up the base for Democrats in this election cycle. In September Davis proclaimed the historically red state of Texas as being in jeopardy of turning blue. Davis made a weak attempt to lure dejected Bernie Sanders supporters. “There are some lingering disappointments there,” she said. “But now is the time for all of us to pull together. ” Sanders defeated Clinton in Austin’s Travis County by a   margin. Clinton did manage to carry the entire state of Texas by a larger margin. Sanders carried 13 counties in the Lone Star State, The New York Times reported. In October, Breitbart Texas reported it appeared she was beginning to accept the reality that her efforts had yet again failed. The 2014 Democrat gubernatorial candidate seemed to concede defeat by the Democrats this year by making a “wait till next year” kind of statement. “A lot of people in Texas who are considering running statewide in the future are going to be closely watching what the indications are coming out of this election and   the possibilities of when it makes sense to try to launch again a statewide race in Texas,” she said. Despite her efforts, the latest Real Clear Politics polling average shows Donald Trump with a 12 point lead over Davis “SuperUterus” candidate Hillary Clinton. Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas. He is a founding member of the Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX.