A new poll reveals that a majority of Americans disagree with the   national anthem protests started by San Francisco 49ers player Colin Kaepernick. But there is a racial divide with more African Americans than whites approving of the protests. [The new poll from Quinnipiac University found that a majority of American adults disapprove of the NFL protests by a 54 to 38 percent margin. Yet a major racial divide was seen among African Americans, who at a four to one margin agreed with the protests.  Quinnipiac asked specifically about the protests in the NFL: “As you may know,” the poll asked respondents, “some athletes and sports teams have begun not standing during the national anthem in order to protest police violence against the black community in the United States. Do you approve or disapprove of this form of protest?” Overall, 54 percent disagreed with the protests. But a split became more obvious when Democrat respondents were quizzed and 63 percent were found to approve the protest while only nine percent of Republicans agree with them. As to independents, only 36 percent agreed with the protests. But the racial divide was seen again as a full 74 percent of black respondents felt the protests were a good thing. The poll highlighted a generational split. Whereas 52 percent of people under 34 approved of the   protests, only 40 percent of those up to age 49, 33 percent of those up to age 64, and only 25 percent of those over 65 agree with the protests. The poll also found that 70 percent of whites said they feel police in the U. S. are properly doing their job while 68 percent of blacks disapprove of the way police are doing their job. Among all Americans, 50 percent said they see police as a friend of the public while only a tiny 6 percent feel police are the enemy. But the racial split is seen again on this with 59 percent of whites saying police are a force for good while only 27 percent of blacks feel that way. Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston or email the author at igcolonel@hotmail. com.