Staff at an Austrian swimming pool have been told to “pay attention” after a horrified mother caught a migrant sexually assaulting her three year old son in the children’s pool. [The latest migrant sex violence outrage took place at the Linz baths, where a 36 year old mother of three identified only as ‘Sandra F’ by Austrian paper Kronen Zeitung was paddling with her children, a ten year old daughter and two sons aged three and six. She told the paper: “I had noticed six foreigners aged between 30 and 40 years old in the indoor pool. Two were sitting on the edge of the children’s pool.  “One of them sidled up next to my youngest, and had his hands in his underwear”. The woman told the paper she witnessed performing a sex act next to her young son. The woman removed her children from the facility and informed a lifeguard, who threw the migrant man touching himself out of the pool. The police were not called, the report suggests. Promising to keep an eye out for migrant molesters in future but promising no change in policy otherwise the city director of swimming pools said of the incident: “We immediately gave our staff the instruction to may more attention for such incidents”. This is not by far the first sex attack in a European public pool in recent months, although many more are now being reported in the wake of the Cologne sex attacks, the scale of which has given courage to many more to come forward. Kronen Zeitung also notes the minimal reporting of a similar attack in Vienna during December of last year, which only merited limited press attention at the timewhen a ten year old boy was “abused” by an Iraqi male. Over a month later the Vienna bath has now enacted a ban of their own this week, after a group of migrant males found their way into the ladies changing rooms. Vienna Online reports   “refugees” will now only be admitted when accompanied with their social workers. Breitbart London has also reported on other more recent swimming bath assaults, and the measures enacted to prevent them. The Bornheim bath in Germany were proactive after migrants from three local asylum camps visited the pool and made obscene gestures towards women there, banning all migrants until further notice. Under pressure from   campaign groups and global media attention, the ban lasted just six days before being lifted this week. A spokesman said he “hopes there will be no more sexual harassment” now the ban had been lifted.  