Supporters of   Donald Trump gathered to celebrate early Wednesday morning at his star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame, chanting “  !” and wearing “Make America Great Again” hats. [The star had been defaced several times over the course of the election. Once, it was   with a swastika. People also urinated on the star and encouraged their dogs to defecate on it. The star was physically destroyed last month, requiring it to be replaced. A homeless woman who later tried to protect the star with her body was physically attacked by   protesters.  On Election Night, however, Trump’s star became the site of a victory party. The Los Angeles Times reports: “This is our president,” they cheered as they tried to shout down a small band of  . The crowd, many of them wearing the candidate’s signature “Make America Great Again” hats, chanted “USA” several times. Trump shocked the media and Hollywood elite with his surprise victory. At least 16 celebrities had pledged to leave the country if Trump won. At least one   Hollywood personality had anticipated the Trump victory, however. Filmmaker Michael Moore had warned his fellow liberals that a Trump victory could be “the biggest ‘F*ck you’ ever recorded in human history. ” As quoted by Breitbart News last month: “Whether Trump means it or not is kind of irrelevant because he’s saying the things to people who are hurting. And it’s why every   nameless, forgotten working stiff who used to be part of what was called the middle class loves Trump,” Moore told an audience in an Ohio theater during the   show that served as the basis for Michael Moore in TrumpLand. “He is the human Molotov cocktail that they’ve been waiting for,” Moore added. “The human hand grenade that they can legally throw into the system that stole their lives from them. ” On Hollywood’s Walk of Fame, however, there were no Molotov cocktails  —   only smiles and cheers among Trump’s Los Angeles fans. Photo: File, Joel B. Pollak is Senior    at Breitbart News. His new book, See No Evil: 19 Hard Truths the Left Can’t Handle, is available from Regnery through Amazon. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.