The State Department’s Inspector General reportedly subpoenaed the Clinton Foundation last fall to investigate the foundation’s projects that may have required government approval while Clinton was Secretary of State, according to a Washington Post report.  The subpoena also sought records concerning longtime Hillary Clinton confidante and aide Huma Abedin, who, as the Post noted, “was employed simultaneously by the State Department, the foundation, Clinton’s personal office, and a private consulting firm with ties to the Clintons. ” Lawmakers like Rep. Chuck Grassley ( ) have questioned Abedin’s “special government employee status” and “alleged that Abedin’s role at the center of overlapping public and private Clinton worlds created the potential for conflicts of interest. ” The Post noted that the State Department’s Inspector General investigated Abedin last year and “concluded she was overpaid nearly $10, 000 because of violations of sick leave and vacation policies, a finding that Abedin and her attorneys have contested. ” The Clinton Foundation —  and Clinton’s campaign —  came under fire after mainstream media outlets like the New York Times, the Washington Post, the Daily Beast, the New Yorker, and Bloomberg confirmed Breitbart News Senior    and Government Accountability Institute President Peter Schweizer’s reporting in his   book, Clinton Cash, about mega donors to the Clinton Foundation getting favorable deals from Clinton’s State Department. The Post pointed out that Clinton denied a report last month that indicated that the “FBI had expanded its probe to include ties between the foundation and the State Department,” saying the report was “an unsourced, irresponsible” claim with “no basis. ” Though Clinton has also brushed off the broader FBI investigation into her emails, recently saying that she was “absolutely” confident nothing would come of it, author Ed Klein told Breitbart News Daily last week that Abedin, along with two other Clinton aides —  Cheryl Mills and Jake Sullivan —  have lawyered up because they face potential jail time due to Clinton’s email scandal. Klein said FBI Director James Comey is taking the investigation very seriously because he thinks it will define his legacy and mentioned that the agency is trying to get one of Clinton’s allies to “turn on Hillary  …     in order to save their own skin. ” According to the Post, “the full scope and status of the inquiry” of the State Department’s investigation “were not clear from the material correspondence” that it reviewed. The State Department and representatives of Hillary Clinton’s campaign and Huma Abedin did not comment for the report.