The Democrat Party’s 2016 platform draft makes one thing clear: they are coming for your guns. [The draft not only contains the usual rhetoric about gun shows and “dangerous loopholes” —  most of which do not exist —  but also calls for outright bans on the private ownership of certain types of firearms.  Gun control is introduced on Page 25 of the party platform draft: With 33, 000 Americans dying every year, Democrats believe that we must finally take sensible action to address gun violence. While gun ownership is part of the fabric of many communities, too many families in America have suffered from gun violence. We can respect the rights of responsible gun owners while keeping our communities safe. Breitbart News reported that the 33, 000 figure is actually a 66 percent inflation of the number of Americans who die via “gun violence” each year. The accurate number is 10, 000 to 11, 000 people annually. The Democrats and their surrogates in the media arrive at 33, 000 by adding in   suicides, which total approximately 20, 000 to 21, 000 annually, and accidental firearm deaths, which total approximately 500 a year. By lumping them together and claiming they are all the result of gun violence, Democrats are able to reach 33, 000. After presenting people with the inflated numbers for gun violence, the draft of the Democrat party platform presents their plan to take an entire category of guns away from you, punish Federal Firearms License holders and gun makers for crimes committed with guns, and expand background checks so that every   gun buyer has to pass the same check the Orlando gunman, Aurora movie theater gunman, and Gabby Giffords’ attacker passed to acquire their guns. The platform draft says: We will expand background checks and close dangerous loopholes in our current laws, hold irresponsible dealers and manufacturers accountable, keep weapons of war —  such as assault weapons —  off our streets, and ensure guns do not fall into the hands of terrorists, domestic abusers, other violent criminals, and those with severe mental health issues. The   observes, “Notice that the plank does not mention the Second Amendment, or recognize the fact that it protects an individual right to keep and bear arms. ” AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.