Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump is tied with Democratic opponent Hillary Clinton in the   western battleground state of Colorado, a new Breitbart News   Marketing survey from the state shows. [In the poll of 1, 246 registered voters in Colorado conducted on Oct. 3 and Oct. 4, Trump and Clinton both received 40 percent of support from those surveyed. Libertarian Gary Johnson got 10 percent, and Green Party candidate Dr. Jill Stein got 3 percent, while 6 percent were unsure. The poll has a margin of error of 2. 8 percent at the 95 percent confidence level and was conducted using a combination of automated telephone calls and an internet panel of cell phone users. The results have been weighted by voting demographics.    percent described the country as going in the wrong direction, while 36 percent described it as going in the right direction and 8 percent didn’t know. A total of 50 percent either strongly or somewhat approved of the job President Barack Obama is doing —  32 percent strongly and 18 percent somewhat —  while 49 percent total disagreed, with 10 percent somewhat and 39 percent strongly. Both Trump and Clinton have high unfavorables, but Trump’s were higher among those polled.   percent of those surveyed viewed Trump as strongly unfavorable and 7 percent considered him somewhat unfavorable, with just 38 percent —  22 percent strongly and 16 percent somewhat —  considering him favorable. Clinton’s numbers are similarly bad, with 50 percent considering her strongly unfavorable, 6 percent somewhat unfavorable, 18 percent somewhat favorable, and 25 percent strongly favorable. On issues, Trump seems to fare better than Clinton. A whopping 65 percent considered it a bad idea for President Obama and Hillary Clinton to hand over U. S. control of the internet to an international body, and only 8 percent considered it a good idea, while 13 percent don’t know enough about the issue and 14 percent were unsure.   percent said they agreed with Donald Trump that NAFTA —  the North American Free Trade Agreement that Bill Clinton signed into law in the 1990s and is supported by his wife Hillary Clinton —  is the worst trade deal in modern history and that the   Trans Pacific Partnership is almost as bad. Only 33 percent didn’t agree with Trump on the issue, while 22 percent didn’t know. A majority, 53 percent, said Obamacare was not a success, while just 35 percent said it was a success. When asked about refugees, voters were aligned in a significant majority against Hillary Clinton’s plans to bring in more. “Hillary Clinton’s supporters at the Refugee Council want to increase the number of refugees coming into the United States in 2017 even more, to 200, 000, and Hillary wants to increase the number of Syrian refugees in that total from 10, 000 in 2016 to 65, 000 in 2017. Do you approve or disapprove of this increase?” the respondents were asked. 60 percent —  a solid majority —  said they disapproved of Hillary Clinton’s efforts on this front. Only 30 percent approved of Clinton’s refugee plan, and 11 percent were unsure. This poll is the second in as many weeks from Breitbart News and Gravis Marketing that shows a close race in Colorado, which has 9   electoral votes that could decide the election. The previous poll had Trump leading Clinton by 4 points, just outside that survey’s margin of error. Trump, on Monday of this week, held a pair of events in Colorado —  and this poll was conducted while he was doing those events and in the immediate aftermath. Combined with current polling in other battleground states —  where Trump is ahead in states like Nevada, Ohio, Iowa, and Maine’s second congressional district, and polling even with Clinton in North Carolina, Florida, and Pennsylvania among other states —  Trump would have enough electoral votes to win the election were it held now if current polling were correct. At Trump’s Colorado events earlier this week, as Breitbart News reported from on site, he had thousands upon thousands of people attend. CO v4a by breitbartnews on Scribd, 