Pop singer Aaron Carter was met with an onslaught of vicious personal attacks on Twitter after he endorsed Republican presidential frontrunner Donald Trump on Saturday. [“I am   my campaign and am therefore not controlled by the lobbyists and special interests like lightweight Rubio or Ted Cruz!” wrote Trump on Saturday morning.  I am   my campaign and am therefore not controlled by the lobbyists and special interests like lightweight Rubio or Ted Cruz!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 27, 2016,  A short time later, Carter, who is the younger brother of Backstreet Boys singer Nick Carter, posted his support for Trump, by asking his 500 thousand followers, “Does America want to have a president who FOLLOWS or someone who leads? I vote For @realdonaldtrump. ” @realDonaldTrump Does America want to have a president who FOLLOWS or someone who leads? I vote For @realdonaldtrump,  —   Aaron Carter (@aaroncarter) February 27, 2016,  In typical fashion, leftwing Twitter trolls and social justice warriors quickly pounced on Carter, and designated the    as a an   closet “racist” who hates the poor. Aaron Carter is Crazy Little Republican Party Racist ☹️ https:  .   —   Andy (@andyetc) February 27, 2016,  #aaroncarter is a #trump supporter. He may hold the same xenophobic racist sexist extreme views making him a hate preaching sympathiser,  —   Anderson (@Andy8006Hill) February 28, 2016,  FYI Donald Trump doesn’t like poor people, so you better reevaluate your decision @aaroncarter LOL,  —   LAWLZ 4 Dayz (@BKLYN_BSB_BABE) February 27, 2016,  @aaroncarter Which parts do you agree with? The part where he loves rich people and hates immigrants, the poor and women? #justwondering,  —   Nikki Irish (@Nikki_Irish) February 27, 2016,  The singer was also inundated with responses describing him as “sexist,” “broke,” “irrelevant,” and  . Carter spent most of Saturday warding off the attacks. One Twitter user also asked others to contact the singer’s management team to request he be dropped for supporting “bigotry. ” Carter responded to the request: You have NO RIGHT to bully me and do this over my political views you need to stop I said the things I don’t condone https:  .   —   Aaron Carter (@aaroncarter) February 27, 2016,   