Jason Richwine, a Harvard PhD who specializes in how the demographics of mass immigration impact societies, says the lifetime cost of an immigration amnesty would be over $6 Trillion. [Yet Richwine tells Breitbart News Daily host Stephen K. Bannon that in some ways, that’s not even the most important issue.  Not only would it lower wages for workers, but the cultural impacts are beyond significant and could also mean the complete end of conservatism in America, while a more liberal Republican Party carries on just fine. “It’s not just fiscal,” said Richwine, speaking of the impact of mass immigration. He pointed out that many of the recent terrorist attacks across Europe were perpetrated by second generation immigrants, indicating that the talk about assimilation is overhyped by   forces. Richwine credited Donald Trump for bring up these issues and forcing them into the mainstream political discussion and also cited a recent ad by Ted Cruz as extremely effective on the issue. “I understand that when the mainstream media covers immigration, it doesn’t often see it as an economic issue,” Cruz says, using audio from the   debate in Milwaukee where he made this point, in the ad. But, I can tell you for millions  —   of Americans at home watching this, it is a very personal economic issue. And, I will say the politics of it will be very, very different if a bunch of lawyers or bankers were crossing the Rio Grande. Or if a bunch of people with journalism degrees were coming over and driving down the wages in the press. Then, we would see stories about the economic calamity that is befalling our nation. As for Conservatism, said Richwine: We hear how the Republican Party needs to adjust, change and so on, or get the votes of new immigrants, or second generation immigrants. But I think what people forget is, immigrants and their children today tend to be on the Left. They tend to support Big Government. They sometimes express socially conservative views but they don’t often vote on those views. Sure, the Republican Party will survive. It will just become more liberal. But will conservatism survive a major demographic change? I really doubt it. The entire interview can be heard below.