Pop star Miley Cyrus will go    in Virginia this weekend to persuade voters to cast their ballots for Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton in November. [The    “Wrecking Ball” singer will knock on doors at George Mason University in Northern Virginia on Saturday in a     effort aimed at millennials, the Clinton campaign announced Thursday.  While there, Cyrus will outline for young voters Clinton’s “vision for an America that is stronger together,” and will urge George Mason students to visit iwillvote. com, a   voter information website. The young singer  —   voted the worst celebrity role model for children by parents in a   company survey last year  —    has not shied away from expressing her political opinions in this election cycle. In March, the Voice   vowed to move out of the United States if Republican candidate Donald Trump wins the presidency. “Donald Trump is a f*cking nightmare,” Cyrus wrote on Instagram then, adding that the billionaire real estate mogul makes her “vom. ” The singer has also become a vocal surrogate for the Clinton campaign in recent weeks, though she described herself in a recent interview as “a really big Bernie supporter” when Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders was still vying for the Democratic nomination earlier this year. In an interview with Variety this week, Cyrus said that Sanders supporters who would not vote for Clinton over Trump  —   those in the   “NeverHillary” camp  —   are “f*cking crazy. ” The announcement of Cyrus’s involvement on behalf of Clinton comes as the Clinton campaign has ramped up efforts to persuade millennial voters ahead of Election Day on November 8. Earlier this week, the campaign announced that Katy Perry and Jennifer Lopez would headline a “Love Trumps Hate” concert series along with veteran rockers Bon Jovi. Comedian and actor Aziz Ansari also got involved on Clinton’s behalf earlier this week, urging millennials to vote for the Democratic candidate because Trump “hates brown people. ”   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum