Welcome to Breitbart News’s live update of the 2016 horse race.   —   All times eastern. 9:00: Mitt Romney’s niece (Michigan GOP Chairwoman Ronna Romney McDaniel) tells the Detroit News that she intends to support Trump after the first ballot at a potential contested convention: Romney McDaniel told The News she and Berden will go to the national convention as Trump delegates. Agema is expected to pledge his vote to Cruz. Asked Friday if she plans to support Trump’s nomination beyond the first ballot, McDaniel told The Detroit News she intends to do so.     7:40: Cruz on his way to big win in Colorado: Per the Colorado GOP, @TedCruz is up to 14 bound delegates in the state, five away from being able to claim victory: https:  .   —   Patrick Svitek (@PatrickSvitek) April 8, 2016,  7:35: Kasich marvels at Sanders’s success: Kasich marvels at where Bernie Sanders is in the race. ”Can you believe whats happening with Bernie?” Then gives his Ben  Jerry’s joke.  —   Kailani Koenig (@kailanikm) April 8, 2016,  7:29: Clinton surrogate refers to Clinton as the “real Democrat” in the race. ”You know what we’re gonna do?” Rep. Louise Slaughter says at @HillaryClinton event in Rochester. ”We’re gonna vote for the real Democrat.”  —   erica orden (@eorden) April 8, 2016,  7:17: Clinton again blasts Trump as a “flamboyant” speechmaker who incites and blasts him for his “amateur hour” statements on the stump. She also mocks his plans to build a border wall: Hillary Clinton, in Rochester: ”Building a wall and having Mexico pay for it, is like a Saturday Night Live skit.”  —   Liz Kreutz (@ABCLiz) April 8, 2016,  7:10: Clinton’s response when asked if her husband should apologize to Black Lives  Matter activists: Asked Hillary Clinton if Bill Clinton should apologize to the BLM protesters. She didn’t answer, but said this: pic. twitter.   —   Liz Kreutz (@ABCLiz) April 8, 2016,  7:06: Clinton seems to be getting more hoarse and says students should not have to pay off their debt after 20 years. She wants “national service options” to allow people to go to college. 7:05: Clinton continuing Upstate New York tour to win back voters who supported her during her Senate run: Hillary Clinton says she’s happy to be back in Rochester. She says it’s a place she ”grew to admire” during her time as senator.  —   Lynette Adams (@whec_ladams) April 8, 2016,  7:03: Kasich getting strong reception in New York: After months+months of this, this eve might be biggest regular town hall crowd I’ve seen for Kasich. More than 1500. pic. twitter.   —   Kailani Koenig (@kailanikm) April 8, 2016,  7:00: Dr. Ben Carson’s advice to Trump campaign: “I would say read the Bible and pray, and learn how to put yourself in other people’s shoes. ”   6:55:   Super PAC attacks “crazy”  : 5:33: Sanders vows local police reform and to “redo the War on Drugs. ” He says we can argue about the “plusses and minuses” of marijuana but it is not a killer drug like heroin and that is why marijuana use should not be a federal crime. 5:25: Sanders calls for a political revolution where millions stand up and tell the “billionaire class that they can’t have it all. ” He continues to blasts the “rich” after talking about the Panama Papers. Sanders shouts out the #panamapapers: ’just one more scam’ by the rich ’to avoid paying their fair share’  —   Alan Yuhas (@AlanYuhas) April 8, 2016,  5:18: Sanders surrogate Sarandon says he is not bought and the Iraq War Clinton supported did “psychic damage. ” Sarandon: Sanders has never been bought, that crowd had done its research. Says Iraq war did ’psychic damage, to US pic. twitter.   —   Alan Yuhas (@AlanYuhas) April 8, 2016,  5:17: Sanders supporter screaming about “systemic racism” at Brooklyn rally: Girl in front of me screaming abt systemic racism on the phone. But at least it’s finally sunny! pic. twitter.   —   Inae Oh (@eenayo) April 8, 2016,  5:11:   voter guide attacking Trump for being “ . ” Our Principles PAC had an   voter guide that attacks him for being   pic. twitter.   —   Ben Jacobs (@Bencjacobs) April 8, 2016,  5:09: Clinton continues to go after Sanders for saying she was not qualified to be president: Clinton on Sanders’ qualified comment: ”It was completely a misrepresentation  …     I don’t know why he made them in the first place.”  —   Dan Merica (@danmericaCNN) April 8, 2016,  4:32: Sen. Mike Lee ( ) says Cruz has the advantage because of his delegate recruitment efforts and Trump’s ceiling in the polls.  Lee has said he would be surprised if Cruz did not win on the second ballot at a contested convention. 4:25: Trump campaign really downplaying expectations in Colorado: Patrick Davis, leading Trump’s CO delegate op, again downplays expectations: ”We don’t expect even 1 delegate. If we get one, that’s a win.”  —   Alexandra Jaffe (@ajjaffe) April 8, 2016,  4:22: Huffington Post Blasting Bill Clinton for Defending Welfare Reform: “C’mon Man. ” Huffington Post raking Bill Clinton over the coals on Welfare Reform comments. https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Alex   (@aseitzwald) April 8, 2016,  4:20: When asked about Clinton’s remarks to Black Lives Matter agitators, Devine says the Clintons need to realize that the Black Lives Matter movement is important and the activists have “real grievances that they are trying to air” and the Clintons don’t realize they do have real grievances. 4:15: On CNN, Tad Devine, Sanders’s top strategist, says Sanders didn’t go too far in insisting that Clinton wasn’t qualified to be president. He has “no regret” about it at all. Devine says Krugman could not be more wrong for saying that Sanders is acting like a “Bernie Bro. ” 4:05: Clinton at another Buffalo event: Hillary Clinton now making a stop at Golden Coffee Up in Buffalo. (She ordered the ”Buffalo Roast. ”) pic. twitter.   —   Liz Kreutz (@ABCLiz) April 8, 2016,  4:00: Ice Cube also says he has met Trump in the past and said the GOP frontrunner was “cool. ” 3:35: Cruz racking up delegates in Colorado as Trump focuses all of his efforts in New York: Ted Cruz wins three more delegates in Colorado, raising total to 12: https:  .  via @denverpost @ByJohnFrank #copolitics,  —   Chuck Plunkett (@chuckplunkett) April 8, 2016,  Cruz slate sweeps in Colorado’s second district pic. twitter.   —   Ben Jacobs (@Bencjacobs) April 8, 2016,  CD2 goes to Cruz. One pledged to Cruz, but the two unbounds are Cruz supporters. Now has 15 delegates, 11 bound. pic. twitter.   —   Katherine Faulders (@KFaulders) April 8, 2016,  3:30: Clinton may have broken NY MTA rules: JUST IN: Clinton’s subway ride broke NY rules https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   The Hill (@thehill) April 8, 2016,  3:20: Trump mocks Clinton’s “sad” attempt at “pandering” by riding subway: 3:15: Clinton Library releasing 464 documents related to Donald Trump: Trump’s at center of Clinton Library  ”document dump” set for April 12. Can’t imagine @tedcruz won’t be paying attn. pic. twitter.   —   Hallie Jackson (@HallieJackson) April 7, 2016,  3:13: She says Trump hates it when she says this but she has gotten a million more votes than Trump during this election cycle. 3:11: Clinton, in Buffalo, says the New York primary will “decide what happens in this nominating race” and insists she is taking nothing for granted. 3:00: Protesters outside of Clinton’s Buffalo event: Protestors against Hillary Clinton gather outside her rally at Pierce Arrow Museum in Buffalo. @WKBW pic. twitter.   —   7 Eyewitness News (@WKBW) April 8, 2016,    3:57: Clinton learning about aneurysms in Buffalo: Hillary Clinton, at the @JacobsInstitute in Buffalo, learning how to treat a brain aneurism. pic. twitter.   —   Liz Kreutz (@ABCLiz) April 8, 2016,  2:55: Cruz issues statement on Lackland Air Force Base shooting: . @SenTedCruz issues a statement on the shooting at Lackland Air Force Base: pic. twitter.   —   Patrick Svitek (@PatrickSvitek) April 8, 2016,  2:50: Bernie Sanders holds campaign event in front of his old Brooklyn home: This @BernieSanders event taking place in front of his old home in Brooklyn. Apartment 2C, per campaign. pic. twitter.   —   Danny Freeman (@DannyEFreeman) April 8, 2016, 