Hours after the suspect in the attack on Ohio State University was killed, OSU Emergency Management confirmed that the suspect was Abdul Razak Ali Artan. [The suspect was killed by OSU police officer Alan Horujko:  The @OSUPolice confirm Officer Alan Horujko shot and killedthe suspect, Abdul Razak Ali Artan, Monday morning. (OFFICER PHOTO ATTACHED) pic. twitter.   —   OSU Emergency Mngmnt (@OSU_EMFP) November 28, 2016,  OSU Director of Public Safety Monica Moll said it was around 9:52 a. m. when “the emergency dispatch center got a report that a vehicle had struck pedestrians. ” Roughly a minute later, an officer called to say shots had been fired he had killed the suspect. We now know that the officer was Horujko and the suspect was Artan. A butcher knife was recovered from the scene after Artan was killed. NBC News reports that Artan was “a Somali refugee who left his homeland with his family in 2007, lived in Pakistan and then came to the United States in 2014 as a legal permanent resident of the United States. ” The International Business Times reports that he transferred from Columbus State to OSU, where he was a   student in logistics management. In August, Artan was interviewed by OSU’s school newspaper —  The Latern —  and he talked about feeling trepidation over exercising his Muslim faith on campus. He intimated that he was concerned about what people would think once they ascertained he was a Muslim and how they would view him. Artan said: I wanted to pray in the open, but I was kind of scared with everything going on in the media. I’m a Muslim, it’s not what the media portrays me to be. If people look at me, a Muslim praying, I don’t know what they’re going to think, what’s going to happen. But, I don’t blame them. It’s the media that put that picture in their heads so they’re just going to have it and it, it’s going to make them feel uncomfortable. I was kind of scared right now. But I just did it. I relied on God. I went over to the corner and just prayed. NBC News reports a total of 10 people were sent to the hospital as the result of the November 28 “ambush” attack. AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and host of “Bullets with AWR Hawkins,” a Breitbart News podcast. He is also the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.