Swedish authorities have been forced to admit that poor school performance and mass migration are directly linked. [The declining level of the Scandinavian country’s schooling system and the huge influx of migrants are directly correlated according to the shocking report. The education authority made a statement Monday saying there is up to an 85 per cent waste of resources in the schooling system, and that the proportion of students coming to Swedish schools who are above the enrolment age is climbing rapidly, reports Die Welt.  The study, which was conducted by the Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA) showed that the university level education in Sweden between 2006 and 2012 had plummeted in quality and did so far more than any of the other countries studied. During the same period, pupils coming from foreign countries increased from 14 to 22 per cent. Also recorded was the share of students who failed their studies, which went from 37 per cent to a significant 50 per cent. The average age of minors first entering the school system rose sharply from seven to   . The board of education said, “many students have so much less time to catch up,” compared to native Swedes who typically start school at the age of six. The board also noted that many of the migrant children were coming from countries with weak educational systems, meaning that even if school had been attended for many years they would not have the same basic foundations as Swedes and lag far behind. The apparent answer to the problem for the Swedish educational authorities is not to integrate children better to the Swedish culture, but rather to do the opposite. The board said, “we need new teachers who speak their respective mother tongues and more interpreters,” in order for migrant children to catch up in the learning process. They pointed out that there was a lack of teachers who could interpret for   origin students and that hardly any Swedish teachers could speak languages like Arabic or Pashtun. Educational experts in Germany have recorded similar experiences to the Swedes in bringing their newly arrived residents up to an educational standard that would render them potentially productive members of society. Breitbart London reported this week on the remarks of senior academic and president of Hamburg University Professor Dieter Lenzen, who said that two thirds of migrants arriving in the country were basically illiterate, even in their own languages. Just teaching many of these newcomers basic reading, writing, and maths skills so they could then embark on   training would take years, the professor warned, and would be extremely expensive. Just one classroom of migrants would cost taxpayers €80, 000 a year, he said. 43 per cent of the 163, 000 applicants who came to Sweden seeking asylum in the past year have been registered as minors, and 43 per cent of those were from Afghanistan. The Swedish government has had a tough time being able to tell the actual age of many migrants who have flooded into the country in the last year. One infamous case involving a migrant who murdered a worker at an asylum home for   migrants illustrated this problem, as it transpired he was in fact an adult masquerading as a child. Sweden has since come under pressure to verify the age of migrants, many of them Afghanis.