Candy Carson, wife of retired neurosurgeon Dr. Ben Carson, says: “Yes, we are going to continue this fight” when asked by Breitbart News Daily host Stephen K. Bannon if her husband will remain in the race for the long haul. [Added, Carson:  We’re going forward. There have been rumors since Iowa saying we’re dropping out. Even before Iowa, they were saying we’re dropping out because our political climate has degenerated to the point where people feel it’s okay to do that sort of thing. And it’s really sad that the Iowans weren’t really even able to execute their Constitutional rights. They did not have their true information. so, they were basing their decisions on falsehoods. Carson was referring to accusations that the campaign of Sen. Ted Cruz disseminated disinformation about Dr. Carson dropping out on the day of the Iowa caucuses. She also bemoaned the tone of politics in general. “It’s sad that we have degenerated to the point where it’s more about what he said, or she said, and that’s the main thing that’s out there in the news. What we need to do is wake our people up. There are still a lot of people out there who aren’t aware that we have a nineteen trillion dollar debt,” she said, pointing out that it would take $10 million a day every day for 5, 000 years to pay off that debt. As for her husband’s campaign, she insisted it will stick to the high road. “It’s amazing how many people come up to us and say keep the high road. Don’t get in the mud with them. I don’t think it’s hurting his character at all. He’s going to stay true to God,” Carson said of her husband Ben. When asked if he would be ready for that 3 AM phone call, a common question about candidates for president, she said, “He’s been taking more 2 AM, 3 AM calls than anybody else that were life and death situations. And it was all about trying to help people to be the best they can be. Helping children that had no kind of hope at all. And finding solutions to those problems. ” Carson also highlighted her husband’s reliance on small donors, “This is someone who is an out of the box political thinking problem solver and he doesn’t have any political chains. he hasn’t made promises to any donors because he won’t. The entire interview can be heard below. Breitbart News Daily airs from   EST on Sirius XM Patriot channel 125. 