Fox News anchor Megyn Kelly has been selected along with four other female entertainment industry leaders to receive Lifetime Impact honors at Variety‘s annual Power of Women: New York event next month. [Kelly will join actresses Lupita Nyong’o and Julianne Moore, fashion designer Vera Wang and renowned ballet dancer Misty Copeland at the April 8 luncheon in New York, where the five women will be honored for their philanthropic endeavors.  “We are honored to provide a platform that celebrates the outstanding women in entertainment who support and promote philanthropic causes making the world a better place to live,” Variety publisher Michelle Sobrino said in a statement announcing the honorees. Kelly will be recognized for her work with Childhelp, a   organization that aids victims of child abuse with education treatment and prevention programs. Kelly has worked with the nonprofit for years and has promoted them on Fox News on several occasions.  Meanwhile, Moore will be honored for her work for gun control organization Everytown for Gun Safety, and Nyong’o will be honored for her work with Mother Health International, which provides services to pregnant women and children in need. Wang will be feted for her work with the Youth Anxiety Center, while Copeland will be recognized for her support for the American Ballet Theatre’s diversity initiative, Project Plie. In addition to being honored at the April luncheon, the five women will appear on the cover of Variety‘s special New York Women’s issue, on newsstands April 5. Comedian Billy Eichner is set to host the April 8 luncheon in New York. Kelly has become increasingly visible in the Hollywood scene in recent months. Last month, the anchor was photographed attending Vanity Fair‘s   and   parties alongside celebrities including Leonardo DiCaprio, Chris Rock, Jessica Alba, Judd Apatow, Sarah Silverman and The Revenant director Alejandro G. Inarritu. Last year’s Power of Women event honored Lena Dunham, Kim Kardashian, Whoopi Goldberg, Glenn Close and Rachel Weisz.