A portion of Michael Moore’s secret TrumpLand documentary has gone viral online  —   but it’s probably not the segment of the film that the liberal documentary filmmaker would have liked to see praised and passed around. [In the roughly   clip posted to YouTube taken from the film  —   which Moore released with no advance warning last week  —   the filmmaker explains Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump’s appeal to   voters and says his successful election will serve as “the biggest ‘F*ck you’ ever recorded in human history. ”  “Whether Trump means it or not is kind of irrelevant because he’s saying the things to people who are hurting. And it’s why every   nameless, forgotten working stiff who used to be part of what was called the middle class loves Trump,” Moore told an audience in an Ohio theater during the   show that served as the basis for Michael Moore in TrumpLand. “He is the human Molotov cocktail that they’ve been waiting for,” Moore added. “The human hand grenade that they can legally throw into the system that stole their lives from them. ” [Warning: Strong Language] Moore continued by saying that disenfranchised   working Americans have essentially lost everything but the one thing guaranteed to them by the United State Constitution: the right to vote. “So on November 8th, the dispossessed will walk into the voting booth, be handed a ballot, close the curtain and take that lever, or felt pen, or touch screen and put a big f*cking X in the box by the name of the man who has threatened to upend and overturn the very system that has ruined their lives: Donald J. Trump. “They see that the elites, who ruined their lives, hate Trump. Corporate America hates Trump. Wall Street hates Trump. The career politicians hate Trump. The media hate Trump, after they loved him and created him and now hate him. Thank you, media. The enemy of my enemy is who I’m voting for on November 8th. “Trump’s election is going to be the biggest ‘F*ck you’ ever recorded in human history,” Moore adds. “And it will feel good. ” The clip of Moore’s discussion of Trump from the film has gone viral on YouTube, with various versions of it garnering hundreds of thousands of views online in just a few days. While Moore does criticize (or praise, as it were) Trump in the clip, the majority of the   film focuses on Moore’s efforts to persuade Americans to vote for Hillary Clinton in November. As the New York Times wrote in its review earlier this month, TrumpLand is less a blistering attack on the Republican nominee and more an “earnest but not very entertaining   campaign film. ” As for his prediction that Trump will win the election, the filmmaker has been saying as much since at least July.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum