With Hillary Clinton now favored to win the White House, attention turns to her likely policies, appointments, and aides. Her   assistant and adviser, Huma Abedin, may be moving into the White House, according to one unsubstantiated report last year. [That raises the question: what will her husband, former U. S. Representative and New York mayoral candidate Anthony Weiner, do? Will he live at the White House  —   and what role might he have in a potential Clinton administration?  Since we are told by the   media that Russian president Vladimir Putin would be President Donald Trump’s   lover, such questions seem long overdue. Weiner was the subject of an infamous 2011 scandal, first broken by Andrew Breitbart, involving his habit of sending racy pictures of himself to women he met online. The story might have died after a few days had Weiner not alleged that he had been “hacked,” which implied that Breitbart had done the hacking. Then, in 2013, Weiner abandoned his mayoral campaign  —   which had some real prospect of succeeding  —   when new allegations that he had not quite kicked his social media habits. The ups and downs of Weiner’s life  —   and Abedin’s  —   were documented in a recent documentary, Weiner, which somehow managed to leave out any reference to Andrew Breitbart. (Likewise, an episode of the HBO series Newsroom, written by Aaron Sorkin,   the Weinergate story to blame one of the women who came forward.) Despite his struggles, he remains a sharp wit and an insightful political observer  —   suggesting his political talents are not to be wasted, some 2017. Given his proximity to power, however, some questions have yet to be asked. Will Weiner have an official role in the White House? (Director of Social Media, perhaps?) Will he, in fact, be living at the White House with Huma Abedin? One can only imagine the   hijinks of First Man Bill Clinton and his junior sidekick. Joel B. Pollak is Senior    at Breitbart News. His new book, See No Evil: 19 Hard Truths the Left Can’t Handle, is available from Regnery through Amazon. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.