On Friday’s Breitbart News Daily with SiriusXM host Alex Marlow, Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump talked about the difficulty of getting his message out through a media clearly biased in favor of his opponent. He described media bias as one element of a corrupt system, which had to be heavily rigged merely to keep Hillary Clinton on the campaign trail, instead of answering indictments in a federal court. [“So we have some things that are  —   we have the right points, and the press has been unbelievably unfair to us,” Trump said. “You know, when you talk about different things, a lot of things they just make up. You’ll make a statement that is a perfect statement, and they’ll find a way to take that statement, chop it up, and make it bad. It’s incredible, actually. It’s incredible. ”  He noted the press has given very little coverage to scandals like Clinton’s involvement in the sale of twenty percent of America’s uranium to Russia, even though Trump said that “there has never been anything like it. ” “To me, that’s one of the worst things, and I don’t know, it just doesn’t seem to get picked up by anybody,” he observed. “They don’t pick up a lot of things. They won’t pick up all the things that came out yesterday. Now, one thing I will say: the WikiLeaks seem to be getting worse and worse. Do you agree with that? I mean, it seems like the initial ones were bad, but they seem to be getting worse and worse. ”  “You know, one that you may disagree with me, but to me it was very important: when Donna Brazile had the answers to the debate, or the questions to the debate, and she gave them to Hillary Clinton. And Hillary Clinton used them, and didn’t turn them in. I thought that was incredible,” Trump exclaimed.  “That was, in terms of honor  —   so Donna Brazile got the questions to the debate, and she gave the questions to Hillary Clinton  —   this came out in WikiLeaks also, as you know  —   and Hillary Clinton, instead of saying, ‘I’m sorry, I can’t use these’ and turning them in, Hillary Clinton used them and only got caught because of WikiLeaks. I thought that was a terrible one, to be honest with you,” he said. Trump said media collusion and Clinton cheating are part of his complaint about a “rigged election. ” “It’s voter fraud, too. But it’s also the media. And it’s also the fact that she’s even allowed to run,” he argued. “Hey, look: the FBI looked at many, many criminal events, including the deletion of 33, 000 emails after she got a subpoena. She got a subpoena. She got a subpoena from the United States Congress, and then after getting the subpoena, she probably said, ‘Oh, we gotta get rid of this stuff.’ They deleted 33, 000 emails. I mean, if you look at nothing else, I usually use that because it’s so simple. You know, that’s like, simple. ” “Nobody’s allowed to do that,” Trump pointed out. “And the private server, that came off the private server. I’ll tell you what: those emails contained boffo information. Those emails, they have got things on there that are  —   for them to do that, and then ‘bleach’ the emails, a very expensive process, on top of it. Get rid of her iPhones with a hammer   …     even getting rid of the phones, and they smashed them with a hammer. ” Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00 a. m. to 9:00 a. m. Eastern. LISTEN: 