The W. K. Kellogg Foundation, the namesake nonprofit arm of the Kellogg Company, has given $310, 000 to the   community organizing group Causa Justa :: Just Cause, an open border   immigration group. Causa Justa :: Just Cause also has connections to a group called the Freedom Road Socialist Organization that promotes breaking the United States up into   nation states. [The W. K. Kellogg Foundation gave $10, 000 to Causa Justa :: Just Cause in   to “enable the organization to achieve its mission by providing general operating support. ”  Later, the Foundation gave $300, 000 to Causa Justa :: Just Cause in a grant slated to last from 2012 to 2014 that was designed to: Engage communities in   racial healing in order to mobilize for foreclosure prevention creating neighborhood stabilization for   and Latino families, The terms “engage” and “mobilize” are often leftist doublespeak for the sort of disruptive community organizing agitation and protests that groups like Causa Justa :: Just Cause engage in. A basic search of Causa Justa :: Just Cause’s history makes clear the sort of “mission” to which the W. K. Kellogg’s Foundation’s grant was providing “operating support. ” In 2011, Causa Justa :: Just Cause partnered with the radical Oakland chapter of the Occupy Wall Street movement to protest and “occupy” houses. As David Bacon wrote at LaborPress. org in 2011: Activists from Causa Justa :: Just Cause and Occupy Oakland protested foreclosures, and demanded that banks stop foreclosures and allow families to move into foreclosed and vacant homes in Oakland. The action was one of over two dozen carried out by Occupy activists and supporters across the country to protest foreclosures and the refusal of banks to renegotiate loans. After a march, people occupied a home owned by Fannie Mae, and announced they would make it a community center, as part of an effort to force Fannie Mae to allow people to live in the many vacant homes it owns as a result of foreclosures. In front of the occupied home, poets recited, activists made speeches, and neighbors poured through the gates. Causa Justa :: Just Cause also worked to expand San Francisco’s “Sanctuary City” law in the wake of the death of Kate Steinle, a young woman killed in July 2015 by   deportee illegal alien Francisco  . Steinle’s death led to condemnation of San Francisco’s sanctuary city policy, but Causa Justa :: Just Cause was a leader in pushing the San Francisco city council to actually expand its sanctuary city policies. Last May, a woman with Causa Justa :: Just Cause tried to block this reporter from filming the group’s members as they violated the rules at a San Francisco Board of Supervisors meeting. They then caused my illegal removal from the public meeting. One member of the Causa Justa’s Board of Directors is Michelle Foy, a prominent member of the Freedom Road Socialist Organization, a   group of “ ” who believe that capitalism “is inherently a system of inequality, injustice, and war. ” Here is how they describe their intellectual and ideological role models: The primary theoreticians of   are Marx, Engels, Lenin, Stalin, and Mao. We also value the contributions of other socialists such as Amilcar Cabral, Fidel Castro, and Ho Chi Minh who applied Marxism to their own conditions. We seek to learn from   in the United States, such as William Z. Foster and Harry Haywood. Communists can also learn from revolutionary nationalists such as Malcolm X. Theory derives from social practice. We seek to grow from every new lesson our activism in all social movements teaches us. The Freedom Road Socialist Organization also chimed in on the murder of Kate Steinle. An essay on their website by Joe Navarro claimed that the death of Kate Steinle gave “a soap box for Trump and his supporters to promote an   agenda. ” Navarro urged his fellow activists to counter efforts to end San Francisco’s sanctuary city policy. He wrote: People must demand that this incident be treated as a criminal investigation, and that Francisco   be given his right to a fair and impartial investigation and followed up with a fair trial. Additionally, the sanctuary cities policies should not be undermined or eliminated. Local police agencies should not automatically hand over undocumented immigrants to Immigration and Customs Enforcement (I. C. E. aka La Migra) to be detained for deportation. It is not the duty of local police agencies to act as immigration agents. Lastly, people should demand a just immigration policy that allows honest working people to live and work in the U. S. with a path to citizenship. The Freedom Road Socialist Organization also actively supports splitting up America into separate nations based on race. Under their plan, black people would get the southeastern USA while Chicanos would get the southwestern states. They write on their website: We support   for the   nation. As this struggle gains momentum, this may eventually include the establishment of an independent   nation based in the South. We defend the right to independent   organization necessary to achieve this liberation, including the right to separate   revolutionary parties. As a result of historical developments since the annexation of Mexican land by the United States, there emerged an oppressed   nation of Aztlan. Since annexation, there has been a continuous struggle for land and justice (tierra y libertad). We support the right to   up to and including secession for that nation. We defend the right to independent   organization necessary to achieve this liberation, including the right to separate   parties. We support struggles of national liberation for all other nations brutalized by imperialist oppression whose homelands are within the borders of the United States, such as the Native American nations of the US, the Hawai’ian nation and the Puerto Rican struggle for national independence. Maria Poblet is Causa Justa :: Just Cause’s executive director. Earlier this year, Poblet retweeted a “Make America Mexico Again” hat on two separate days on her Twitter feed. Get your hat: https:  .    All proceeds go to @ConMijente @jorgeramosnews @joseiswriting #NeverTrump pic. twitter.   —   Jeronimo Saldaña (@JeronimoSaldana) May 5, 2016,  The “Make America Mexico Again” meme is a dig at Donald Trump’s strong   and   immigration stance. The Kellogg Company, which is connected to its namesake nonprofit the W. K. Kellogg Foundation, announced last week that it was pulling advertising from Breitbart News, stating that it did not share Breitbart’s “values. ” This is a developing story  …     Follow Breitbart News investigative reporter and Citizen Journalism School founder Lee Stranahan on Twitter at @Stranahan.