Actor and model Antonio Sabato Jr. took the stage at the Republican National Convention Monday night in support of presumptive party nominee Donald Trump, whom the actor immediately predicted would defeat Democrat Hillary Clinton in November’s general election. [“I know I’m not your typical convention speaker. You might be wondering why I chose to speak,” the    soap star and Calvin Klein model began his brief speech.  “The truth is, I’ve never considered myself very political, or spoken out politically before,” he went on. “But my belief in this country, my faith in Jesus Christ, have compelled me to speak now. ” “I am concerned about our country’s future. I’m concerned about my children’s future. And I believe we need Donald Trump, who shares my beliefs, and my faith, to get this country back on track, ” an enthusiastic Sabato said. He continued: “In the past eight years, failed policies have caused our country to deteriorate. Our rights have been trampled, and our security threatened. We are weaker by almost every measure. We are on the wrong path. That is clear even to someone who was not even born here. I came to the United States from Rome, Italy in 1985. I followed all the rules, and finally became a naturalized citizen in 1996. Others who want to come to the U. S. to live and work should follow the same rules. We are a nation of laws for a reason. There should be no shortcuts for those who don’t want to pay or wait. ” Sabato said his mother was born in Communist Prague before escaping to the Czech Republic and meeting his father in Italy. “I know what socialism looks like. I don’t want that for my children,” he said. “Not at all. But that’s the path that we’re headed down with the leader we’ve had and the candidate he endorses. ” “Donald Trump is for unity,” he added. “Donald Trump believes in one America, with liberty and justice for all. Having secure borders, protecting our citizens, none of this is hateful. This is the responsibility of the government. And it’s the right thing to do. Donald Trump will get it done and get back on the right track. ” “We can no longer afford to be silent,” he concluded. Our country needs Donald Trump to make us great again. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. ” Watch Sabato’s full speech above.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum