Democratic nominee for president Hillary R. Clinton and her GOP rival Donald J. Trump are all   in the battle for Pennsylvania’s 20 electoral votes, according to the   poll conducted Nov. 1 and Nov. 2 with 1, 016 registered voters in the state. [“Clinton is at 47 percent and Trump is 45 percent, inside our margin of error, but really the swing is towards Trump,” said Doug Kaplan, the managing director of Gravis Marketing, the   polling company that executed the poll. The poll carries a 3. 1 percent margin of error with a 95 percent level of confidence.  Libertarian Gary Johnson and Green Party nominee Dr. Jill Stein were each the choice of two percent of the respondents, Kaplan said. In the Senate race, Republican Sen. Patrick J. Toomey is also in a statistical tie with his Democratic challenger Katie McGinty, 45 percent for McGinty and 47 percent for Toomey, he said. The Pennsylvania voters were asked a series of questions to gauge the mood of the electorate in the Keystone State.   percent of the voters said that Obamacare was not a success, while 33 percent said President Barack Obama’s healthcare reform law was a success.   percent of the voters said that the country is going in the “Wrong Direction,” compared to 33 percent who said the country is going in the “Right Direction. ”   percent said that the next president should “change the direction and pursue new policies,” but 40 percent said they want the next president to “continue the policies of Barack Obama. ” Asked: Why do you think FBI Director James Comey chose to reopen the investigation into Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server while Secretary of State after the agency recently uncovered thousands of emails on the laptop used by Clinton’s closest adviser?   percent of respondents said Comey believed he found a significant development and 43 percent said they believe Comey was trying to influence the outcome of the election. Twenty percent of voters said the news regarding the reboot of the FBI investigation into Clinton’s private emails was “More Likely” to affect their vote, 21 percent said it was “Less Likely,” but 59 percent of the respondents said it would have no impact on their decision. The poll participants were asked about the effect on Clinton: How concerned are you that if Hillary Clinton were elected President her current controversies and scandals will continue to be a central focus of her Presidency and detract from her ability to lead the country?   percent of the respondents said they were “Very Concerned” with 14 percent “Concerned,” for a combined for a total of 62 percent. Seventeen percent said they were “Not Concerned” and 20 percent said they were “Not Very Concerned. ” The poll was conducted using a combination of interactive voice response polling and an internet panel of cell phone users with results weighted to match a proprietary turnout model. Pennsylvania (November 3, 2016) v2 (1) by Breitbart News on Scribd, 