Welcome to Breitbart News’s live updates of the 2016 Republican National Convention. Donald Trump accepts his party’s nomination tonight as he delivers his   address. Ivanka Trump, Jerry Falwell Jr. RNC Chair Reince Priebus, Oklahoma Gov. Mary Fallin, and Rep. Marsha Blackburn ( ) will also be featured.  ***LISTEN   BREITBART NEWS’S LIVE COVERAGE OF THE REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTION HERE*** Call in:   . All times eastern.  —     4:45: Tom Brokaw, who covered the 1976 GOP convention, on MSNBC: Absolutely no comparison between Ted Cruz and Ronald Reagan. 4:25: End of an era. Start of a new?: Roger Ailes resigns:   RUPERT MURDOCH:  AILES STEPS DOWN FROM FOXNEWS STAYS ON AS CONSULTANT TO 21ST CENTURY UNTIL 2018  …      —   MATT DRUDGE (@DRUDGE) July 21, 2016,  MURDOCH AND SONS TO ADDRESS NEWSROOM THIS HOUR ABOUT THE CHANGES  …      —   MATT DRUDGE (@DRUDGE) July 21, 2016,  EXCLUSIVE:  LETTER TO RUPERT MURDOCH FROM AILES  …    https:  .   —   MATT DRUDGE (@DRUDGE) July 21, 2016,  4:05: Chair of Texas delegation: Texans “disappointed” about Cruz’s speech: Chair of Texas’ RNC delegation just told me ”people are very disappointed” about Cruz’s   of Trump. https:  .   —   Jacob Soboroff (@jacobsoboroff) July 21, 2016,  4:00: Donald Trump Jr. tells NBC’s Lester Holt that Trump has succeeded because he has resonated with and given a voice to Americans who have felt that their voices have been “suppressed. ” 3:57: Trump touts movement: This is a MOVEMENT! #RNCinCLE pic. twitter.   —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 21, 2016,  3:50: Sad! . @Jacobnbc, live outside #RNCinCLE, reports many groups expecting thousands for planned protests have seen only few hundred show up this week,  —   Kate Snow (@tvkatesnow) July 21, 2016,  2:42: . @KatyTurNBC has learned from a sr source close to Trump that his speech will be run through plagiarism software prior to delivery tonight.  —   Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) July 21, 2016,  2:35: Agitators in Cleveland: Protesters just marched over Hope Memorial Bridge and into fenced area getting as close as they can to the Q. pic. twitter.   —   Yamiche Alcindor (@Yamiche) July 21, 2016,  2:30: Dems. release list of speakers for next week’s convention: Just in: here are a bunch of the speakers that’ll be up in Philadelphia next week. Some big names  …     pic. twitter.   —   Gabriel Debenedetti (@gdebenedetti) July 21, 2016,  1:45: Trump closing in on Clinton in another national poll.  1:30: Report: Trump considering Harold Hamm as Energy Secretary. Reuters Select: Trump is considering fracking magnate Harold Hamm as energy secretary: https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Reuters Business (@ReutersBiz) July 21, 2016,  1:23: Stage getting prepped for Trump dry run: Trump about to do a dry run for tonight. #RNCinCLE pic. twitter.   —   Ryan Parker (@TheRyanParker) July 21, 2016,  1:15: Gary Johnson on Cruz: “Vote  your conscience” means vote for me. 1:05: CNN’s Sunlen Serfaty: Reaction from National Review and Weekly Standard on Cruz’s speech: “glowing praise” 12:55: Rudy addressing delegates: Great hearing from such a great Republican leader today. Mayor Rudy Giuliani. #RNCinCLE #RNC2016 pic. twitter.   —   Sen. Jason Rapert (@jasonrapert) July 21, 2016,  12:50: Interesting: On CNN, Maggie Haberman says that Democrats worry that Clinton may be underestimating Trump’s chances of winning in November. 11:55: Even the Texas Tribune mocks George Will: . @GeorgeWill says Texas could soon be purple or blue. Man, c’mon https:  .   —   Evan Smith (@evanasmith) July 21, 2016,  11:37: Donald Trump Jr. says he heard last night from donors who wrote Cruz big checks that they will never write him checks ever again. He says Cruz tries to be “ ” but wanted to be with the Bushes. He says Cruz only became “ ” when he couldn’t get into the establishment because nobody liked him. Trump Jr. points out that Trump doesn’t lecture to people like Ted Cruz. 11:35: Donald Trump Jr. says on CNN that Cruz galvanized people behind Trump. He mocks people for throwing their credentials on the floor in front of cameras to get publicity. 11:30: Spicer says the pledge has gone back several election cycles. When asked if Cruz was “selfish” and “reneged” on the pledge, Spicer says yes to both. He accuses Cruz of siding with Hillary Clinton because it’s a binary choice. He says if you’re not with   you’re with Clinton. Spicer says Cruz may have a problem with Trump, but Pence is the strongest conservative vice presidential pick the GOP has had in a long time. And it says a lot about Cruz that he doesn’t realize that. [Why are the media assuming Trump will lose and talking about 2020 stories? And why are Republican folks on TV not correcting them and saying, ‘don’t you mean 2024? ’”] 11:25: RNC’s Chief Strategist Sean Spicer says Cruz understands the importance of the Supreme Court and it’s important to understand the “greater good” when you come the convention. He says you shouldn’t come to somebody’s event and not support Trump. [Not sure if he would ever take the position or if it would be offered, but Spicer would make a great White House Comms.   Secretary if Trump wins. During the 2012 election, he was more effective vouching for Romney than Romney’s spokespeople.] 11:13: Omarosa in Cleveland for Trump:   . @OMAROSA with the best breakfast staff of the RNC! #RNCinCLE pic. twitter.   —   DC GOP (@DCGOP) July 21, 2016,  11:07: Coulter: Voters should get news from Breitbart News, Coulter, commenting about Fox News, says Fox News (like “telling a diabetic we’re giving you insulin when we’re giving you salt and sugar”) was often worse than MSNBC because they were pushing “amnesty” and horrible trade deals as the “conservative” network. She says people should just get their news from Breitbart News, which has covered issues that Fox News has been ignoring. 11:03: On Breitbart News’s live broadcast, Breitbart News    makes a great point in his interview with Ann Coulter that Cruz blamed Trump for the violent Chicago but Cruz can’t get over a  . Coulter says you don’t see either of them on mainstream TV because they were the only two who got Trump right from the beginning of the primary season. 11:00: Interesting. Ken Cuccinelli changing his tune. Ken Cuccinelli says VA delegation is one team  he’ll be on floor tonight to support #TrumpPence #RNCinCLE #NBC4DC pic. twitter.   —   Chris Lawrence (@clawrencenbc) July 21, 2016,  Ken Cuccinelli tells me he wishes he could have vetted #TedCruz speech, not used ’vote your conscience’ #NBC4DC pic. twitter.   —   Chris Lawrence (@clawrencenbc) July 21, 2016,  10: 39: Pence vows to win Pennsylvania: . @mike_pence promises #Pennsylvania delegation @realDonaldTrump and him will ”turn state red” #RNCinCLE pic. twitter.   —   Chris Snyder (@ChrisSnyderFox) July 21, 2016,  10:15: Ted Cruz talks about the Constitution but doesn’t say that if the Dems win the Presidency, the new JUSTICES appointed will destroy us all!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 21, 2016,  10:11: On MSNBC, Hugh Hewitt claims Ted Cruz “hit a home run” last night. He claims Cruz “set the bar very high for Donald Trump tonight. ” [Memo to Hewitt: voters don’t care about how “well” someone sounds while litigating cases before the Supreme Court. Sounding “well” probably means a candidate will have a tough time connecting with regular people who don’t speak like lawyers.] 10:10 Duck Dynasty’s Phil Robertson and Willie Robertson both slam Cruz. 10:05: Palin to Cruz: ”Delete your career” https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   The Hill (@thehill) July 21, 2016,  Former Gov. Sarah Palin ( ) says Sen. Ted Cruz ( ) has no political future after refusing to endorse Donald Trump. “Cruz’s broken pledge to support the will of the people tonight was one of those   ‘read my lips’ moments,” she said late Wednesday in a statement to Breitbart News. 10:00: When Esquire’s vile Charles Pierce lavishes praise on you, you may be doing something wrong. Boo all you want. Ted Cruz will leave Cleveland with dignity. https:  .  #RNCinCLE pic. twitter.   —   Charles P. Pierce (@ESQPolitics) July 21, 2016,  9:47: The Texas delegate who confronted Cruz at today’s breakfast tells CNN that she is “very upset about Sen. Cruz. ” When asked about Cruz’s comments, Geraldine Sam, a former black mayor of La Marque, Texas, says she was called the   etc. but she still loves her city and there are some things that you just have to “get over. ” She accuses Cruz of lying to her. She says she came into the convention as a Cruz delegate and she expected Cruz to support the party’s nominee. She says she grew up believing that your word is your bond. She says Cruz lost credibility and says he should not have made that promise if he was not going to honor it. 9:45: Manafort tells reporters in Cleveland the Cruz’s speech was the only that was poorly receive. Manafort says Cruz, a “strict constructionist,” choose not to accept the pledge. 9:25: When Cruz is challenged about not honoring the pledge, he says the pledge was not a “blanket commitment” and he will not be a “servile puppy dog” and endorse someone after maligned his wife and father. A Texas delegate screams at him, “Your word is your bond. ” 9:20: Cruz says he saw a word cloud and the dominant word in his speech was “freedom. ” He says Republicans will lose if the dominant word in November is “Hillary” or “email server. ” [Cruz thinks the electorate only consists of “Smart Set” philosophers.] 9:17: More proof that Cruz sounds like a programmed robot at times on the campaign trail, he rails against Speaker Boehner and Majority Leader McConnell. [Memo to Cruz: Boehner is no longer in Congress.] 9:15: Cruz says the way to win is to talk about freedom and not about Clinton and Trump. Cruz makes a false comparison re: Republicans asking him to support David Dewhurst. [That was before the election. Cruz defeated Dewhurst in the primary and Dewhurst supported him in the general election.] Texas delegate yells as Cruz, “the party has spoken. ” 9:13: Cruz says he’s not voting for Hillary but won’t say if he is voting for Trump. He says he’s going to be listening to Trump’s speech and watching how he and is campaign to conduct themselves to make the decision whether to vote for Trump. He again says he doesn’t “intend” to criticize and throw rocks at Trump. He says every one of us has to “follow our conscience. ” 9:11: Cruz is asked why he didn’t endorse Trump while speaking to Texas delegates. He says what he wanted to do last night is lay out the principles we should stand for as Republicans. He says he didn’t say a single negative word about Trump. He says he doesn’t “INTEND” to say negative things about Donald Trump.