Chuck Dixon, the acclaimed Marvel and DC author, appeared on The Milo Yiannopoulos Show to discuss the state of modern comic books and the legacy a writer leaves behind. [“Are you worried about your legacy as an artist as a creator, are you worried that you’re gonna wake up one day and they’re going to turn The Punisher into a Black Lives Matter activist, I mean do you care about that? Does that offend you as an artist, the fact that some of the work you have done in the past might be gerrymandered for these unnecessary petty political reasons?” asked Breitbart Tech editor Milo Yiannopoulos.  “Well I mean most of them already have been. I’ve seen my characters morphed into PC cyphers. But the thing is once I’m done working on them, it’s like watching your kids go off with another guy. The new daddy is here, I just don’t pay attention to it otherwise I’d be crying myself to sleep every night, so I just walk away from it and go on to new work, move forward. ” replied Dixon, referencing Marvels latest attempts to make their comic books more SJW friendly.  In recent months Iron Man has become a 15 year old black girl and The Hulk is now a Korean teenager. And as Milo himself has said, female Thor is the result of progressive   and   ruining a cherished art form. As comic books become more mainstream following the success of many of Marvels films, their attempts to pander to the liberal masses are entirely unsurprising.  “But if you did pay attention to it, presumably it would be quite upsetting” continues Milo. “Sorry, I feel like I’m asking you to relive childhood trauma, like some sort of horrible therapy sessions where I’m dredging up these horrible false memories or something, I’m sorry I don’t mean to press the issue, just if it was me it would be like someone going back and rewriting my columns with like new politics and crapper jokes, I’d be horrified. ” Dixon jokingly replied, “I feel like I’m at a convention now because I always get questions like ‘how do you feel about what they’ve done to your characters’ and I mean I had a character that I had created that I really liked and had an affinity for and DC, they had her raped, tortured and murdered in the most gruesome fashion and I’m like what the hell. And then even more cynically they brought her back a couple of years later. It’s hard not to take it personal, I did a book called Nightwing for years and when I left it they killed every single supporting character and then nuked the city. ” Chuck Dixon has recently written a   adaptation of Peter Schweizer’s bombshell book, Clinton Cash. The graphic novel is set to be released on August 8th on Amazon. com  Listen to Dixon on The Milo Yiannopoulos Show below. 