In an interview this weekend to promote his latest film, Michael Moore in TrumpLand, the liberal documentary filmmaker says that anyone voting for Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump is a “legal terrorist” who wants to “blow up the old way,” and contends that Americans need to be protected from Trump as if he were a pedophile. [Moore told Rolling Stone on Friday that those disaffected with Washington and the political system in America have a unique opportunity to “blow up” that system on November 8, but he urged those people to think of the “damage” they could do by being a “legal terrorist. ”  “You get to get back at the system now and blow it up and this is the only day you can do it legally,” Moore told the outlet of the act of voting for Trump. “He’s told everybody that’s what he’s going to do. He’s the outsider who is going to ride into town and blow up the old way. So you, as a voter, get to participate in the detonation. He’s going to get a lot of votes from people who actually just want to sit back and watch the thing blow up. ” Moore adds that he does not want to “pick on” Trump anymore, because, he says, the candidate has a “mental illness” and he would like for him to “get help. ” “At the same time, you have to protect the population from him like you do with a pedophile,” he said. “A pedophile doesn’t need to be in prison they’re sick. They have to be separated from us so they don’t hurt children. But you have to treat it that way. ” Moore has been a consistent commentator in the   to the 2016 election. Last year, the filmmaker stood outside of Trump Tower in Manhattan with a placard reading, “We Are All Muslim,” while earlier this year, he called on Trump’s daughter Ivanka to give her father an “intervention” and urge him to drop out of the race. Still, Moore has predicted several times that Trump will win the presidency in November. In his interview with Rolling Stone, the filmmaker said he doesn’t trust polls that show Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton with a comfortable lead. “I saw what happened in the [Michigan Democratic] primary in March, where Hillary was ahead in every national poll by eight to 20 points ahead of Bernie [Sanders] in Michigan. How did she go from that to losing 12 hours later?” Moore told Rolling Stone. “I do not believe the polls. ” The filmmaker added that he wants to see Clinton pull off a “  sweep” that also sees Democrats   control of both the House and the Senate. “First of all, be for Hillary. But secondly, we need to defeat not just Trump, but whatever it is he springs from the dying dinosaurs that exist in this country who miss the old way where the white man was going to run the show,” Moore said. “Last month, we just got the second year in a row where the majority of kindergarteners in school in this country were not white. So welcome to the new America. ” Read Moore’s full interview with Rolling Stone here.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum