During a radio interview on Sunday, legendary standup comic and staunch Israel supporter Jackie Mason took issue with Sen. Ted Cruz’s attacks on opponent Donald Trump concerning the billionaire’s positions on Iran and Israel during the most recent debate. [“I’m in shock that Cruz has the nerve to look him in the eye and accuse him of the exact opposite of what he said,” stated Mason, speaking during his regular segment on “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio,” the popular weekend talk radio program. Continued Mason:  Trump has been saying a hundred times, at every debate and on the street corners, every place you go and every time you say hello to him, he tells you how much he loves Israel. Israel is his favorite thing. His daughter married a Jew. She even converted to Judaism, and he himself is miserable that he isn’t Jewish. He spends all of his life worshiping Judaism. He forgot he was a gentile thirty years ago. At last Thursday’s debate, Cruz said of Trump: “On Israel, Donald has said he wants to be neutral between Israel and the Palestinians. As president, I will not be neutral. ” Mason further criticized Cruz for claiming Trump didn’t want to nix the international nuclear accord with Iran. “One concern I have with Donald is, although his language is quite incendiary, when you look at his substantive policies on Iran, he has said that he would not rip up this Iranian nuclear deal, I think that’s a mistake,” Cruz exclaimed at the debate. Mason poked fun at Cruz, claiming the senator was essentially complaining to Trump that: You said you would destroy it, but you didn’t say what I said. I said I would shred the deal. Shredding is a lot stronger. With destroying, you could destroy it and it could still be there, but if you shred it, it would never exist again. That’s why I said you are exactly the person I would never trust with the Iranian deal. If you don’t shred the deal, the deal could come back. Klein’s show is broadcast on New York’s AM 970 The Answer and NewsTalk 990 AM in Philadelphia. Klein doubles as Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter.