It was at Coney Island’s Freak Bar, in the summer of 2010, where I last thought that riding a roller coaster was a good idea. What followed would forever be known as “the Cyclone incident,” at least to my loved ones and me, including the friend who, after we shared a steady stream of sangria, convinced me that Coney Island’s creaky landmark was the perfect “beginner’s coaster. ” It wasn’t. At Nathan’s Famous, after the most terrifying one minute and 50 seconds of my life, nauseated and strangely sore, I conceded: Roller coasters were not for me. It’s something I always knew to be true but could never fully admit. I still wanted to believe that I could have fun at an amusement park, because what’s the point of going if I couldn’t get my thrill on? After all, I could enjoy a Nathan’s hot dog elsewhere minus the nausea, embarrassment and price of admission. It still pains me to think of my high school senior class trip to Universal Orlando in 1999, where I was the only member of my class who refused to ride. An empathetic friend kept me company, and we tried to replace the coaster experience with   rides featuring the likes of   and the Terminator, but the   vibe took much of the fun out of that. But as a recent trip to Hersheypark to reclaim some lost childhood joy confirmed, amusement parks, and theme parks in particular, can still be fulfilling, especially if you can shed the shame that often accompanies those of us who prefer both feet on the ground. I always assumed that coasters were the main draw at amusement parks, but it turns out that having an appealing theme may be the most important factor in a park’s success. “While, maybe, roller coasters are the single most popular type of attraction, they’re really not the things that drive attendance to the top parks in the country,” said Robert Niles, the editor of ThemeParkInsider. com. “It’s more the characters, the brand names, it’s the stuff you go to Disney and Universal to see. ” The resulting focus on noncoaster activities is an obvious boon to folks like me. While Disney has Mickey and Universal Studios has Harry Potter, Hersheypark and its related attractions have a common thread with even more widespread appeal: chocolate. I just happen to really like chocolate, as does my wife, who joined me on this trip, so you can imagine our joy in being able to build our own custom chocolate bars, right down to the label’s design, at Hershey’s Chocolate World. If you must know, I went with classic milk chocolate with pretzel bits and chocolate cookie bits (no sprinkles). Parks that can offer these types of   experiences, along with an assortment of other engaging activities, are the ones to look for. “We’re really three parks in one,” said Kathleen McGraw, director of communication for Hershey Entertainment and Resorts, referring to Hersheypark, its Boardwalk section’s water attractions and the ZooAmerica North American Wildlife Park. In addition, just outside the park, in Hershey, Pa. is the   Chocolate World, which also offers a   tour, a tasting session and a huge gift shop. Also nearby is the Hershey Story museum, which offers a chocolate lab class, and the   Hershey Gardens, which, in addition to its botanical offerings, has a great view overlooking the town. The most surprising activity available? The Falconry Experience, and it has absolutely nothing to do with chocolate. One does not have to scream to have a good time at an amusement park. “Screaming is usually associated with horror films and roller coasters. This is why I usually look like I’ve just watched a horror film on a roller coaster,” the comedian Jim Gaffigan wrote in his book “Dad Is Fat. ” I do enjoy horror films, but the great thing there is I don’t have to have an actual encounter with, say, a demonic clown to get a rush. With coasters, watching a clip of others scream while dropping 300 feet at over 100 miles per hour is enough to get my blood flowing. Our trip to Hersheypark was the first time that I felt   heading into an   experience, because I have since accepted that people are just wired differently, and not liking roller coasters is nothing to be ashamed of. The old me would have come up with excuses like: “Kim   apparently loves roller coasters, and that kind of bothers me. ” The new me approached the park’s other attractions with fresh eyes. I was able to enjoy lovely views from the park’s    Kissing Tower and Ferris wheel, rides that used to feel like a lame consolation prize. I also indulged in mild thrills at the Boardwalk, like a leisurely float down the Intercoastal Waterway, and traditional park games like   and Pro Shot satisfied the kid in me (though the giant stuffed animal prizes still eluded me). It certainly helped that there was zero peer pressure from my wife to reconsider coasters. Mr. Niles, the expert from ThemeParkInsider, has visited about 40 parks around the world and doesn’t pressure his friends or family either, though he does encourage people who have never ridden a coaster to try at least once. “If they’ve done coasters before and they say, ‘no, I just don’t like them,’ I respect that and then point them toward something else,” Mr. Niles said. “That’s why good parks have a variety of things to do. ”  Some things you will always be able to get at an amusement park: cotton candy hot dogs fried dough a really bad stomachache. In fact, chicken tenders remain one of the most popular orders at Hersheypark, ice cream being the most popular, according to Ms. McGraw. But many parks have also responded to the continuing popularity of   restaurants by offering   options. “Most parks, at this point, have really tried to upgrade food over the years,” Mr. Niles said. “You can still get a lousy, cheap meal at any theme park if that’s what you’re looking for. But if you’re looking for something nice, it’s there at the major theme parks. ” Along these same lines, parks have continued to work in popular local brands and area specialties. For example, Coney Island added a Grimaldi’s Pizza in 2012, and last year, Carowinds in Charlotte, N. C. introduced Carolina staples like shrimp and grits to its menus. “We’re always looking at incorporating chocolate, but also local and regional favorites,“ said Kathy Burrows, a manager of public relations for Hersheypark. Among the highlights there are the crabfries (seasoned   fries with a cheese dipping sauce) from Chickie’s  Pete’s, a popular sports bar chain based in Philadelphia that opened its second stand this year. The whoopie pie, which nearby Lancaster County claims among its creations, is another park fixture. It traditionally consists of two   chocolate cakes brought together like a sandwich by a   filling. But starting this season, customers can get them with ice cream filling, or create their own, choosing from 12 fillings and eight cake shells. This allowed us to try what I am calling the “inverted whoopie pie,” which has vanilla shells and chocolate filling. Mr. Niles said that themed food was another trend, thanks to the success of Universal’s Wizarding World of Harry Potter and its Three Broomsticks restaurant. The most chocolately dining option at Hersheypark is Simply Chocolate, where you can eat all kinds of things that are dipped in chocolate, from Twizzlers to bacon, or overindulge with one of its     Shakes. While I am at peace with the fact that I will most likely never again ride a coaster, I could change my mind. Maybe something less traumatic than the Cyclone would yield different results? I could also run for president, but I probably won’t. But for those considering another try, there are tips that can help. “Don’t close your eyes,” Mr. Niles said. “Your eyes can help your body to be balanced. If you’re closing your eyes, you’re losing all of that input that your body needs to adapt. ” You can also pretend you’re driving a car  —   one that’s really long and extremely fast. “Put your hands on that grab bar and put your foot down like you’re pressing the gas,” Mr. Niles said. “Because you’re just trying to create the feeling that you have control. ” I passed this advice on to my wife, who also does not like coasters but has yet to give up on them, and she said it worked. What also helped is that she chose a coaster, the Trail Blazer, which is on the lower end of the thrill meter. Hersheypark conveniently rates its adult rides on a scale from “mild” to “aggressive thrill,” so we were able to easily identify a coaster that was less likely to overwhelm. My wife’s success gave me a little bit of hope. But for now, I’m still rating every coaster I see a 0, as in: there is a zero chance I’m getting on that thing. But the   bacon? Easily a 10. The closest airport is Harrisburg International Airport, roughly a   drive to Hersheypark. We drove from New York City, which took three hours. Parking is $15. Hersheypark, 100 West Hersheypark Drive, Hershey, Pa.   . com $62. 95 for regular   admission. Hershey’s Chocolate World Attraction, 251 Park Boulevard, Hershey    hersheys. . The Hershey Story, 63 West Chocolate Avenue, Hershey   . org. $10 for Museum Experience, $10 for Chocolate Lab class, $17. 50 for both. Hershey Gardens, 170 Hotel Road, Hershey    hersheygardens. org $10. 50, $7. 50 for children 12 and under. The Falconry Experience, Hersheypark,   .   $75 ($65 for Hershey Resorts guests),$25 for ages 15 and under The Hotel Hershey, 100 Hotel Road, Hershey,   . com rooms from $279. Hershey Lodge, 325 University Drive, Hershey,    hersheylodge. com rooms from $249.