Donald Trump’s spokesman Jason Miller indicates that the   is working with lawyers on transitioning his business over to his children. [Miller was asked during a phone call with reporters about something Trump posted on Twitter on Monday, where he referenced his business interests across the world, charging that only the “crooked media” thinks it is a “big deal. ”  Prior to the election it was well known that I have interests in properties all over the world. Only the crooked media makes this a big deal!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 22, 2016,  This tweet sparked the Huffington Post to write an article titled, “Trump Says Any Conflicts Of Interest Were Priced Into Your Vote. ” The New York Times detailed Trump’s potential conflicts of interest with his business on Monday: Mr. Trump’s companies do business with entities controlled by foreign governments and people with ties to them. The ventures include   real estate arrangements  —   with Mr. Trump’s companies either as a full owner or a “branding” partner  —   in Ireland and Uruguay. The Bank of China is a tenant in Trump Tower and a lender for another building in Midtown Manhattan where Mr. Trump has a significant partnership interest. Experts in legal ethics say those kinds of arrangements could easily run afoul of the Emoluments Clause if they continue after Mr. Trump takes office. “I’ll go ahead and let the   speak for that directly, but obviously, we’re all working and preparing for this transition in advance of him being sworn in on January 20 and as updates become available we will go and share those with you,” Miller told reporters on Tuesday. Politico reports that Trump’s lawyer said his three children, Don Jr. Eric and Ivanka, will oversee the Trump Organization through a blind trust. Miller was asked by the press on Tuesday if the transition team can share a schedule on the timeline and transition of the business to Trump’s children. “There’s no schedule that is ready for public distribution  …     but as soon as lawyers work through that  …    with all parties involved, we will go ahead and get that out,” Miller promised.