Tuesday on MSNBC’s “Morning Joe,” while discussing both presidential candidates reactions to The New York Times report on Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump suggesting that he could have legally avoided paying federal income taxes for the last 18 years,   Mika Brzezinski warned Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton to “get off your high horse about this tax thing”  Brzezinski said,”So I noticed a confidence here that I don’t think should be there among the campaign. Sorry. I mean, you think about this tax thing and were laws broken? Did The New York Times find any laws were broken? He talks about brilliantly using that system. Great. Hillary Clinton could have had that same reaction to her speech money. That say she is going to change Wall Street but ‘you know what I used to system to made millions of dollars,’ but instead she hides it. Donald Trump just doesn’t hid it. He is very comfortable he followed the law and made a lot of money. She also followed the law and made a lot of money and it’s okay to look at that speech money and somehow we let it go because she’s  —   her campaign keeps it kinda under  —   it’s the same thing and that’s what people see. People see somebody being honest about it and somebody kind of like, not mentioning it and still doing it. What is the difference? Does anybody want to explain to me, because I think voters like what they saw from Donald Trump and I’m worried about that. ” She added, “I think the reaction to The New York Times story on Donald Trump’s part was brilliant, and the thing is he didn’t even think twice about it. He just went there. While she has been hiding the speech money, hiding this foundation stuff, hiding this   stuff and trying to get around it. Mistakes were made and I’m telling you people don’t  —   they are not feeling a complete connection with her and this doesn’t help to get all high and mighty. Get off your high horse about this tax thing. Unless laws were broken, it’s not an issue. You guys cancel each other out. ” &gtFollow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNEN