An Hispanic construction worker in Canada hung a Mexican flag from the Trump International Hotel in Vancouver, Canada.  Diego Saul Reyna took the demonstrative action to take a stand against Republican presidential frontrunner Donald Trump’s policies on border security and illegal immigration. The flag was draped from the top of Trump’s hotel on Saturday, ABC news reported. Reyna made the move “because from the concrete pouring, finishing, drywall, taping, wood forming and general labor, Mexicans were there, building it, doing good work,” ABC News quoted from his Facebook page. “Mr. Trump, we did our best work, your tower here in Vancouver is premium quality, and we were a crucial part of it, not just Mexicans but immigrants as a whole, like your ancestors were, you are not native american,” Reyna continued, “the insults you have said about us, have not changed our work ethics, while working on your tower Mexicans didn’t steal anything nor raped anyone, we just did the best work we could possibly do, for my ourselves, our families and the future tenants in your building. ” Reyna, who recently became a Canadian citizen has received a lot of supportive comments on this Facebook page. Unfortunately, Reyna seems to have taken the media’s distortion of Trump’s comments about some Mexicans being rapists or criminals to heart. Trump was actually speaking about the impact of criminal illegal aliens on our country and not about Mexicans as a whole. Reyna also posted about the rampant violence in Mexico. He posted a graph showing the numbers of killings in Mexico since 2007, as compared to Iraq and Afghanistan. The graphic shows 21, 415 killed in Afghanistan, 81, 636 killed in Iraq, and 164, 345 in Mexico. Mexico had more civilian deaths than both of the   countries combined. Breitbart Texas has reported extensively about the Mexican drug cartel violence that has led to meany of these killings and a virtual civil war on parts of northern Mexico. The message that Reyna posted about the flag on the Trump hotel in Vancouver has been shared nearly 9, 000 times and has over 13, 000 “likes. ” The Trump International Hotel is still under construction. ABC News reported it is scheduled to open in the fall of 2016. It is designed with 147 guest rooms, 218 private residences, a champagne lounge and what the Trump website called “Vancouver’s first pool bar nightclub. ” This article has been updated. Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas and is a member of the original Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter@BobPriceBBTX.