CHARLESTON, S. C.  —   A year ago, the nation was transfixed by a different horrific crime, the shooting deaths of nine church members during Bible study at the Emanuel A. M. E. Church here. With the backdrop of the Orlando shootings, survivors and family members of the victims of the Charleston slayings on June 17, 2015, sat down to reflect on forgiveness, race relations, gun violence and the suspect, Dylann S. Roof, called Prime Evil by some of the survivors. On Friday, they joined parishioners from Emanuel A. M. E. Church, political leaders and congregations from around the region for a memorial service at the TD Arena in Charleston, where a year earlier President Obama delivered a eulogy that culminated with his singing “Amazing Grace. ” The conversation, led by Michael Schwirtz and Chris Dixon of The New York Times, included: Felicia and Tyrone Sanders, the parents of Tywanza Sanders, 26, who was killed. Felicia Sanders was present at the shooting, shielding her    granddaughter from the assailant. Polly Sheppard, a retired nurse who survived the attack. The children of Ethel Lance, who was killed. They are the Rev. Sharon Risher, Esther Lance, Nadine Collier and Gary Washington Daniel Simmons Jr. the son of the Rev. Daniel L. Simmons, who was killed. Michael Schwirtz: Nadine, you gained some fame and notoriety when you stood up in court during the bond hearing and publicly forgave Dylann Roof. Do you have any regrets about that statement? Nadine Collier: I stand behind it. All the way. I don’t have no regrets at all. I just believe in God. And didn’t have that hatred in my heart. Esther Lance: I don’t forgive him because my heart ain’t there. It ain’t going to be no time soon. I can’t forgive him. The Rev. Sharon Risher: Forgiveness is a personal journey for everybody. I have not gotten to that point where I could forgive Dylann Roof. That’s just me. Being in clergy, I’m mandated to forgive, yet I understand that God is a loving god and that he gives everybody an opportunity to reach that path of forgiveness. Felicia Sanders: Forgiveness is not for the person. The person doesn’t care whether you forgive him or not. Forgiveness is for you. Forgiveness is growth. If you don’t have any forgiveness in you, it makes you stagnate. You will never grow. You’re giving the individual the power over you, so that means you’re still a victim to the person. I want to say that we refuse to be a victim. I want him to know, Prime Evil to know, that just because you took our loved ones, you don’t have us. I believe we can get more done now than before. Tyrone Sanders: I want to put on the record that I’m not there yet. I don’t know if I’ll ever forgive. Mr. Schwirtz: Is there any wisdom or insight you have gained over the last year and what challenges are you still trying to overcome? Daniel Simmons: Over the past year, there are a lot of things that transpired positive and negative for all of us. One of the things that happens out of tragedy  —   as people we have a choice of whether we’re going to be active or how we’re going to respond. So one of the great things, and I’m so proud of my daughter, is that we began a nonprofit, the Hate Won’t Win movement. It’s a nonprofit that’s going to provide opportunity, services programs, initiatives about   crimes, violent crimes, gun control and empowerment initiatives. Everybody is doing something, whether it’s going back to school with their children, providing scholarships, whether it’s changing their lifestyles to have an opportunity to give back, to speak in different places, to travel to talk about their personal experiences, to sit down and do an interview with The New York Times. God chose the right place, the right families and the right individuals and most importantly the time. God does what he hates to accomplish what he loves. Mr. Schwirtz: Reverend Risher, what has it been like to be directly involved with the gun issue, pressing for legislation. Have you felt any frustration? Ms. Risher: Right after June 17, I became very vocal and involved in   advocacy groups on gun control. So I’ve been on Capitol Hill, I testified before the judiciary committee in Oregon. I have lent my voice to different bills. This is what that year has brought for me, an opportunity and a platform to beg our American people to look at the gun laws, look at background checks. It’s long hard frustrating work, the results aren’t something tangible that you can put your hands on, but laws are being changed and the attention to gun reform is out there. I’m always optimistic. Mr. Schwirtz: The shooting prompted fierce debate over the issue of race in South Carolina and culminated with the removal of the Confederate battle flag from the State House grounds. How has the issue evolved over the last year? Ms. Risher: The racial tension and history of Charleston is there. It took hundreds of years to build it it will probably take hundreds of years for people to look at Charleston, South Carolina, as a different place. Mr. Sanders: I had a Confederate flag, like about 10 doors down from me. I was tempted to go on the porch and ask them to take it down. But I said, ‘No I’m going to go ahead and leave them alone just like Ms. Polly says.’ If you leave them alone they’ll eventually settle down. And they took it down. They’ve got the state flag up now. Chris Dixon: Did you expect the Confederate battle flag at the State House to come down? Mr. Sanders: I was in awe because I didn’t expect it to happen. But that flag coming down won’t bring my son back. Or my aunt or the other seven. Mr. Dixon: How has the shooting changed Charleston and the way people relate or interact with each other? Mr. Sanders: If they know who I am, they’re a little kinder. When I went back to work, it seemed I got a lot of embracing from the white guys. Ms. Sanders: I still think that there is a lot of unity. I’ve met so many people within this year that I would have never met. So many people still coming giving their condolences. That’s unity right there. I see a lot more smiles. Ms.  Sheppard: The same. People are a little kinder to each other. Ms.  Sanders: June 17, 2015, was the first racism I’ve ever encountered. And I got it all at once. Ms. Sheppard: There’s unity in more ways than one. If you look on Sunday you’ll see about seven or eight of those trucks with those Confederate flags going across the bridge. So they’re unifying, too. Mr. Schwirtz: Can you speak about your relationship with Emanuel? Are any of you still active in the church? Ms. Sanders: I’ve been trying to go. It’s not easy. It’s a preparation for me. When I go there, I have to not eat at night or drink anything in the morning so that I won’t have to go downstairs to the bathroom. Emanuel is not Emanuel no more. Emanuel is the new Emanuel. The church for some reason thinks it’s about the church. The fellowship hall, where it all happened at, they didn’t give it no respect. I was in line to go into my son’s funeral. And I heard somebody say, ‘Oh, you should go downstairs now, it smells like blood.’ How do you think that made me feel? Ms. Sheppard: This happened on Wednesday and they were back in church on Sunday, which I thought was terrible. Ms. Simmons: I don’t feel the church should have been opened that soon. Because when I went to the church a couple of days after, I could still sense and smell blood. So it wasn’t a good feeling for me. It was one of my weakest moments I’ve experienced throughout this whole process. Ms. Collier: The last time I was there was Aug. 30, 2015, my mother’s birthday. And I haven’t been back since. Growing up I was on choir at the church. Since this happened, it’s like, everything, my whole life changed. My mom was assassinated for the church. My momma when she was not ushering, we got a little seat we sit at, two three rows from the back. I’d come around and sit on the side of her. Can you imagine me coming in and sitting in the front? It just freaks me out. Took everything out of my body just to do that on her birthday. I haven’t been back.