Hillary Clinton just let the cat out of a bag. She thinks supporters of Donald Trump belong in a “basket of deplorables. ”[Hillary was talking about me and my friends. I’m Exhibit A for her rant. I’m the author of the new book, Angry White Male. It’s my testimony about exactly what millions of angry white males who support Donald Trump believe in  —   and exactly what liberals like Hillary and Obama think of us  —   and how they are trying to target us, muzzle us, punish us, and destroy us.  Thanks, Hillary. At least now the   elephant is out in the open. Now we know what you think of us. Now we know how much you despise us. Now it’s clear as day. Hillary and her socialist cabal just showed their true colors. They hate anyone who loves God, country, family, and the Constitution. That’s the entire point of my book. Everything I love  —   and millions of conservatives, Christians, and patriots love  —   is under attack from Hillary and Democrats. They hate us. They want to destroy us. They want to silence us. Millions of Trump supporters believe the things that made America great are simple: Faith in God, family, patriotism, American exceptionalism, capitalism,   values, the Constitution, military, and police. Hillary and Democrats despise those symbols. To them, belief in those symbols makes you “deplorable. ” To them, belief in those symbols is     and crass. To them, to say you actually believe America is exceptional brands you as a “racist. ” To them, to say you love God, country, and capitalism makes you a bigot, sexist, homophobe, and Islamophobe. This isn’t an isolated incident or a slip of the tongue. Ask Obama. In 2008 he said conservatives and Christians are “bitter” and “cling to guns or religion . ” Or look at the targets and victims of the IRS scandal of four years ago. Was it a coincidence that Obama’s IRS targeted, intimidated, and persecuted only specific groups that happen to fall into Hillary’s “basket of deplorables”? The IRS went after conservative groups Christians groups groups that believe in the U. S. Constitution groups that support Israel and Tea Party groups that support patriotism and American exceptionalism. And don’t forget Obama’s IRS also targeted and persecuted individual critics of the president  —   like me. I spent three years and countless dollars fighting off    IRS attacks, only to be cleared twice (without owing one cent). It’s pretty clear Hillary and Obama don’t like angry white males who speak up, or speak out. Why should that surprise anyone? The most important chapter in my book Angry White Male is about my days at Columbia University, Class of ’83 with my classmate Barack Obama. I spent four long years getting to know my classmates at Columbia. I spent four years listening to what they really believed in. This was before any of them got famous. No cameras were rolling. They were free to tell the truth. They poured their hearts out. And what did I witness? It was exactly what we heard from Hillary Clinton on Thursday  —   word for word. My classmates were almost 100% white,   and pathetically guilty at having been born with silver spoons in their mouths. They ranted just like Hillary every day. They made it clear they despised conservatives. They despised patriots. They despised people of faith. They despised America and called it a “racist nation. ” They vowed to bring this country down. They despised anyone with wealth, or who owned a business. They constantly talked about “white privilege” and their hatred for “the white power structure. ” They despised Israel and supported the Palestinians. But most of all, they despised white, straight, Christian males. To them, we were the symbol of everything wrong about America. Why is this important? Because I read “Columbia College Today. ” It tells me all about the success and career achievements of my classmates. Guess where they all work? Many of them are either in the Obama administration, working on Hillary’s campaign, or in positions of power in the media. In short, these people with hatred in their hearts are today the most powerful people in America. From Hillary’s speech it’s clear nothing has changed. My classmates have all grown up. But their hatred for America, American exceptionalism, faith, family, capitalism and of course their favorite scapegoats  —   white, straight, Christian males  —   has never changed, or faded. It’s as strong as ever. Yes, they hate us. We’re just “a basket of deplorables. ” Hillary made that all clear on Thursday.