Former Secret Service officer Gary J. Byrne, author of Crisis of Character: A White House Secret Service Officer Discloses His Firsthand Experience with Hillary, Bill, and How They Operate, joined SiriusXM host Alex Marlow on Tuesday’s Breitbart News Daily to discuss the state of the presidential race after the second debate. [Byrne began by saying he “couldn’t disagree with Glenn Beck more” about the radio host’s proclamation that voting for Hillary Clinton was a more moral choice than voting for Donald Trump.  “Voting for Hillary Clinton is, to me, a complete mistake, and here’s why: I started out in the U. S. Air Force. I had to pass a battery of tests to get to the point where, in the U. S. Air Force, I was allowed to protect our nuclear arsenal. I then went on to become a Secret Service uniformed division officer for 12 years, where I had to take a polygraph test. In eight out of those twelve years, I protected the Clintons, and the Hillary Clinton I know is a complete pathological liar,” he said. “Really, if you’re honest with yourself and you pay attention to some of the politics that goes on, you’ve seen this yourself,” said Byrne. “She never displays any kind of leadership. I cite many examples in my book where she gets so angry, she has the people that work for her, they’re terrified of her. ” He recounted a story from Crisis of Character about “these three women who came up from Arkansas with her. They knew the Clintons. The one lady worked with her at the Rose Law Firm, and she knew that Mrs. Clinton’s anger became so ferocious that she immediately started demanding people would get fired. ” “In the incident that I’m talking about, these women made a mistake ordering some stationery, and I saw them talking about it,” he continued. “They really looked like they were afraid of something. I thought something was wrong, somebody was sick. And they explained to me what happened, that they had inadvertently allowed an intern to order some stationery, and the girl had made a mistake, so they had tens of thousands of copies of these invitations to the White House that were worth a lot of money, that were useless. And they weren’t worried about the wasted taxpayer dollars. They were worried about who was gonna tell Hillary Clinton because they knew somebody was getting fired and sent back to Arkansas. ” “That’s just one example of her incredible anger toward people,” said Byrne. “She got so angry one time, she hit a Secret Service agent in the back of the head with a bible, sitting in a limousine. You just can’t explain that away. And when you put that together with what we’ve seen today, she is completely inept when it comes to leadership. ” “One day, I was standing at my post outside the Oval Office. It was during Christmastime, and they were decorating,” he recalled. “There was a group of women that had come up from Arkansas, volunteers to help decorate the White House. This is common, people come from all over the world. Mrs. Clinton was going to have a meeting with them over in the mansion, and they were going to come over to the Oval Office, and she was going to give them a tour and let them take pictures in the Oval Office. The President wasn’t there at the time. So her staff member comes over, and tells me what they’re gonna do, and she says, ‘When we’re done, we’ll be leaving them here, and Mrs. Clinton and I will be leaving and going to do something else. ’” “I said, ‘Someone else is going to have to escort them out of here they can’t stay here.’ She said, ‘Oh, no, they’ll be staying here until we come back and get them.’ And I said, ‘You can’t do that.’ Now, these aren’t Gary’s rules. These aren’t the Secret Service’s rules. These are rules based on national security law. This is very important for your listeners to understand,” Byrne stressed. “She had started shirking these rules about national security way before the email server. She didn’t want to hear anything about what the rules and the laws were, to protect the President’s Oval Office and the information in it. ” “So I got in a discussion, the assistant called me an   and a little while later, the first lady came up, and she walked right up to me  —   and you know, she’s about    I’m about    —   and she walked right up to me and she starts berating me. She calls me an   she refers to the uniformed division as an   and then she says  —   and she said this a couple of times, I talk about it in the book  —   ‘We should have fired you all when we got here.’ She wanted to fire a thousand federal police officers that protect her,   hours a day,” he said incredulously. “She got so wrapped around the axle. And if she had just taken a breath  —   and, you know, I had already figured out a compromise because that’s my job there   …     to try to make things work. If they had just taken the people over across the hallway to the Roosevelt Room, and leave them there, and have somebody come down from her staff and sit with them, it would be fine. But then she threatened to call the director, and she did. A little while later, I got a phone call from an inspector, who said, ‘Be prepared: you’re going to get a phone call from the director’s office.’ I said,  ‘Okay.’ The assistant director called my post and said, ‘Tell me what’s going on.’ I explained it to him, and he said, ‘You’re doing the right thing. Thanks for making it work,’” said Byrne. He said he wanted listeners to understand that “when the American people voted Bill Clinton into office in the early nineties, they got Bill and Hillary, and if she gets elected, you’re going to get Hillary and Bill. ” “Here’s the truth about that,” Byrne continued. “The things that made the economy decent were put into place before Bill Clinton got there, and he wasn’t responsible for the things that they did. I mean, those ideals came from Mr. [Erskine] Bowles and Bob Rubin, who eventually became the secretary of the treasury. Those were their financial ideals, not Bill Clinton’s. Listen, all Bill Clinton, in my experience, used those eight years as president to keep his perverted lifestyle and dating up. That’s the only reason I see  —   and this is my take, after protecting him for eight years. That’s the only reason he got into politics, is because he didn’t have to get his hands dirty, and he used it to manipulate women and keep up his bizarre sex life. And that’s no exaggeration, believe me. If your listeners get a chance to read my book, or do some research on the Internet, you’ll see that that rings true. ” “When it comes to Mrs. Clinton, she is involved in everything,” he said. “When a woman would surface and accuse him of doing something wrong, she was in charge of, they call it ‘slut shaming.’ They would berate these women. How is it that when a woman accuses Bill Clinton  —   they used this term one time it drove me crazy: ‘That’s what you get when you drag a   bill through a trailer park.’ Well, what’s at the other end of that string? The other end of that string is Bill Clinton. Why does he get a pass and all these women get   and he gets away with it every time. It’s incredible. ”  “And she’s in charge of it. She’s the one that hammers these women, and they talk about it,” Byrne said of Hillary Clinton. “When you see these women like Juanita Broaddrick and Kathleen Willey tell their stories, if you can’t understand what they’re saying, and you can’t believe them, then how is it that anybody else that’s ever been assaulted, how come their stories are true, but these women are not?” Byrne referenced Eleanor Holmes Norton, congressional delegate from the District of Columbia, and her callous dismissal of Bill Clinton’s accusers as “   women” who were “not looking their best, perhaps looking much better, you know, 40 years ago. ” “They have Eleanor Holmes Norton come out and say that. They talk about their appearances. But let you and I say something about somebody’s appearance, especially a woman, and they would try to hang us out to dry,” he observed. “What they do is, they say whatever they have to to distract you at the time. It may be negative. And because it’s Eleanor Holmes Norton  —   you and I, most people, you don’t expect any better out of her. So she can say whatever she wants, and then the Clinton machine mentality is, and this comes back from when Bill Clinton first started running from Arkansas, ‘So what?’ No matter what it is, they say, ‘So what?’ and they push forward. ” “For instance, when you hear Hillary Clinton talking about Donald Trump’s behavior, and the way he acts? What she’s talking about, she’s talking about herself. It’s like she read my book, I swear. It’s like she’s channeling what I wrote about her in my book, and she’s flipping it on him,” Byrne declared. “That’s what they do. And the reason it’s working is because the mainstream media buys into it. They don’t call them on anything. They’re really helping them get elected. They’re doing more to get her elected than the people that are running her campaign. ” Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00 a. m. to 9:00 a. m. Eastern. LISTEN: 