Students at the Maggie L. Walker Governor’s School for Government and International Studies (MLWGS) are launching a “Planned Parenthood Club,” according to a recent Facebook post. [The public school for advanced students  —   located in the Richmond, Virginia area  —   was ranked in 2014 by   Daily Beast as the “12th best public high school,” states the school on its website.  According to the post: Maggie Walker’s new club “Planned Parenthood Generation Action” is holding its first meeting on Monday, September 19th in room 206. Whether you are interested in health, education, or getting community service hours this election season this club is for you. While the Planned Parenthood “club” does not appear on the school’s list of clubs and activities, the website notes the list provided is “not an exhaustive list. ” According to the school’s “Club Constitution  ” the Planned Parenthood club’s faculty sponsor is Dr. Janet Spencer, and the purpose of the club is “to provide education, outreach, and advocacy opportunities at Maggie Walker to support the goals of Planned Parenthood,” to “create a network with other students who support Planned Parenthood,” and to “engage in the political process to win elections and pass pro reproductive freedom legislation. ” Regarding its “clubs and activities,” MLWGS states its students are “involved in an amazing number and variety of clubs. The school has a single lunch period, which facilitates club meetings and events with guest speakers. ” “Many clubs and activities will have a community service component, including all honor societies,” notes the school’s website. As Live Action News reports, the school’s news site  —   called MLWGS Jabberwock  —   observed in September that Planned Parenthood Generation Action chapters are usually launched only on college campuses, but that “this month the Maggie Walker community will welcome its very own chapter to the school thanks to Kiera Goddu (’17) Amanda Mier (’17) and Naomi Vickers (’17). ” Jabberwock continues: Goddu, Mier, and Vickers are more than enthused to bring a new experience to the student body of Maggie Walker. Goddu explained that Generation Action chapters operate by advocating for reproductive rights, keeping Planned Parenthood clinics open, offering a wide range of publicly available education services, and lobbying to remove targeted restrictions such as those imposed on abortion providers. Maggie Walker’s Generation Action club plans to meet the goals of its founders and of the Planned Parenthood organization through three primary branches. Goddu is completing a mentorship at Planned Parenthood and says she hopes that the Planned Parenthood club can be an extension of her work into school. She is critical of her middle school, where she claims sex education had an emphasis on abstinence from sex. “They said that the only definition of abstinence was that it was abstaining from sex until marriage between a man and a woman,” she said. “And I was like  —   abstinence can be applied to many things  —   like abstaining from doing basically anything!” Mier says the school’s new Planned Parenthood club will provide “inclusive sex education that’s not just about  …    what’s between a man and a woman, but also is LGBTQ inclusive  …    ” Vickers explains that “choice” is a primary talking point of the Planned Parenthood club’s education program. “A choice in any type of good society should be  …    the choice to abort if she wants to or [the woman] should have the choice to have the child if she wants to and feel like the government places enough value on the life of all people that they will support her and her child in every way possible,” she said. “That is a choice, and that’s what I want people to know. ” The Jabberwock notes that Vickers views a lack of reproductive justice in the black community as a critical issue for her as well. “It’s really about justice for all people and what they need and deserve,” she said. According to Planned Parenthood, Planned Parenthood Generation Action is a network of young community organizers who “mobilize advocates for reproductive freedom” and “raise public awareness about reproductive health and rights. ” Planned Parenthood leaders say that, as they have travelled the country meeting with their political Action Fund leaders during this election year, they discovered that what’s most important to their Generation Action young people is “abortion, sexuality, and  . ” “For 2016 and beyond, these leaders will be driving the program that will result in real change for sexual and reproductive health, rights, and freedom,” Planned Parenthood says. “That will change the nature of power in this country. ” Planned Parenthood is the nation’s largest provider of abortions. The group receives more than a half billion dollars of taxpayer funds each year and performs over 300, 000 abortions annually as well. For over a year, Planned Parenthood has been under congressional investigation stemming from allegations that it illegally sells the body parts of aborted babies for a profit. We must defund @PPact #100yearsofabuse https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Students for Life (@Students4LifeHQ) October 17, 2016,  “I think Planned Parenthood has been spending too much time trying to copy the   Generation with their    messaging of the ‘Planned Parenthood Generation’ and now their entrance into the realm of high school clubs,” Kristan Hawkins, president of Students for Life of America, tells Breitbart News. “They boast 200 college groups while Students for Life of America passed the 1, 000 group mark for high school and college   groups earlier this year. ” Hawkins explains Planned Parenthood’s drive to appeal to more young people in the country. “Planned Parenthood is desperately seeking new clients so they are relying on their predatory business model of getting young women to trust them for their faulty birth control, and then when they get pregnant, to get abortions at Planned Parenthood,” Hawkins adds. “High schoolers are smarter than that and we’ve been educating them for years already about Planned Parenthood’s sleazy business plans. ” “Honestly, imitation is the sincerest form of flattery, but good luck, Planned Parenthood,” Hawkins says. “This is a   generation, not the Planned Parenthood generation. ” Breitbart News reached out for comment to Maggie Walker but received no immediate response prior to publication.