The European Union (EU) has attacked the bathroom privacy bills in Mississippi, North Carolina and Tennessee, claiming they violate an international human rights treaty the U. S. is subject to. [In a forthright statement release this week, the undemocratic supranational organisation asserts its own “commitment to equality,” and demands the democratic laws are “reconsidered” and “religious values” disregarded.  The attack by the European External Action Service (EEAS) chimes with those made by U. S. president Barack Obama. “The recently adopted laws, including in the states of Mississippi, North Carolina and Tennessee, discriminate against lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex persons in the United States  …    ” they claim.  The EEAS is the EU’s Foreign  Security Policy Service, and its statement on the democratically made federal laws puts the issue alongside other “human rights issues” they have condemned in the past weeks including Boko Haram terrorists, the civil war in Syria, and labor camps in North Korea. They claim the laws “contravene the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, to which the U. S. is a State party, and which states that the law shall prohibit any discrimination and guarantee to all persons equal and effective protection. ” Continuing: “As a consequence, cultural, traditional or religious values cannot be invoked to justify any form of discrimination, including discrimination against LGBTI persons. These laws should be reconsidered as soon as possible. “The European Union reaffirms its commitment to the equality and dignity of all human beings irrespective of their sexual orientation and gender identity. We will continue to work to end all forms of discrimination and to counter attempts to embed or enhance discrimination wherever it occurs around the world. ” The EU and the European Court of Human Rights routinely imposed social policies upon member states  —   such a forcing the UK to allow prisoners to vote, and making smacking children illegal. The EU is also an enthusiastic supporter of transgender ideology. The institution recently indicated its intensions to increasingly interfere in   states’ social policies, appointing a man tasked with imposing “European values’” on the entire globe. On the 23rd of June British citizens will have the chance to vote to leave the EU, and regain their national sovereignty over such issues. However, the EU intervention follows the British government itself  issuing a warning last month to “LGBT travellers” to North Carolina and Mississippi, also claiming their “human rights” will be affected. The Foreign Office instructed citizens to go to Human Rights Campaign (HRC) a group endorsing Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign, who are also campaigning against the “disgraceful” bill, for more information of the issue. The   “bathroom privacy bill” passed in North Carolina this March, and has been widely misrepresented and demonised in the mainstream media. The law aims to stop men posing as women from entering women’s toilets, potential to molest them. It also makes it harder for municipalities to advance a transsexual ideological agenda and seeks to protect the rights of private businesses to uphold a religious ethos. The bill does not openly discriminate against any one group. Governor Pat McCrory of North Carolina has said that, in terms of equality, the bill “is tougher than the federal government’s,” and that “the law neither requires nor prohibits” genuinely transgendered people from using toilets. He pointed out that those who have undergone “ ” surgery and have had their birth certificate changed may use a restroom that corresponds with the sex listed on their birth certificate.