Welcome to Breitbart News’s daily live updates of the 2016 horse race.[ —    11. 20: Even if Donald Trump wins the GOP nomination, the general election is going to be tough: New @NBCNews poll: 51% of voters “scared” of Trump nomination. @chucktodd joins us now #NBCNightlyNews pic. twitter.   —   NBC Nightly News (@NBCNightlyNews) February 26, 2016,  10:26: Mexico’s former president is being driven up the wall by Donald Trump, who now says Trump reminds him of Adolf Hitler. New @NBCNews poll: 51% of voters “scared” of Trump nomination. @chucktodd joins us now #NBCNightlyNews pic. twitter.   —   NBC Nightly News (@NBCNightlyNews) February 26, 2016,  8:00: Trump says, “how about if I don’t do the next debate?” He says he will, though. The next debate is Fox News’  Kelly’s. Trump says the networks should donate some of the proceeds to vets. He also says that because of him, the debates are ridiculous and have become the “Super Bowl of cable television. ” Trump says he can recite what everyone is going to say and even jokes that he knows Carson will justifiably complain that he is not getting enough air time.   7:55: After it takes a bit of time for a protester to be removed, Trump says “in the good old days, law enforcement acted a lot quicker. ” Trump says he loves the police but “they are afraid to move” because they want to keep their jobs and not lose their pensions. He says “everybody is politically correct” and “our country is going to hell. ” He says America is becoming a “frightened country and it’s very, very sad. ”   Trump says waterboarding is “just fine” and “if you want to go a step above —  or two or three steps above —  “then that’s fine too. ”   7:42: Trump also says Rubio had a “credit card problem” in Florida. This may be the first time Trump has brought up Rubio’s  “credit card problem” after vowing last week that he would hit back at Rubio if Rubio started to attack him. He says Rubio was “taking from the Republican Party” and “having his driveway done and all of this” on the Florida GOP’s credit card. Trump says “the man doing the investigation is furious” because “they are not listening to him” and maybe Trump should interview him. Trump says it will be “embarrassing” if he beats Cruz in Texas and Rubio in Florida. 7:37: Trump says he is   his campaign and blasts Rubio for buying a house for having $178, 000 and selling it to a lobbyists for $389, 000 while he had legislation before him. 7:35: In Oklahoma, Trump blasts “little Marco” for for “sweating” profusely and not being “presidential. ” Trump is trying to make the “choker” label stick and stories like this won’t help Rubio: But to those who have known him longest, Rubio’s flustered performance Saturday night fit perfectly with an    strain of his personality, one that his handlers and   have labored for years to keep out of public view. Though generally seen as   and quick on his feet, Rubio is known to friends, allies, and advisers for a kind of incurable anxiousness  —   and an occasional propensity to panic in moments of crisis, both real and imagined. This jittery restlessness has manifested itself throughout Rubio’s life, from high school football games in Miami to   policy fights in Washington  —   and in some ways, it’s been the driving force in his rapid political rise. 6:37: Trump dominant in Super Tuesday states: . @marcorubio: ”[@realDonaldTrump’s] been exploiting working Americans for forty years.” @BretBaier pic. twitter.   —   Fox News (@FoxNews) February 26, 2016,  6:30: Top Christie backer Ken Langone tells the Wall Street Journal that he thinks Trump will change things for the better as president. Ken Langone, the billionaire Home Depot founder who was Mr. Christie’s top fundraiser, said Mr. Trump would be a great president, even though he personally was backing Ohio Gov. John Kasich. “I think if Trump is going to become president, things are going to change and for the better,” he said. “I’m not concerned in the least. For Chrissake, we had eight years of this guy [President Barack Obama]. If I was going to be concerned, I should have been concerned eight years ago. [President George W.] Bush was no prize either. ” 6:25: GOP establishment   Fred Malek ‘disappointed’ Christie endorsed Trump: “I have a high regard of Gov. Christie and always thought he was a straight shooter. But I have a sharp difference of opinion with him. I’m disappointed,” Malek told Mashable. “It changes the narrative very quickly and suddenly and certainly not in a direction that I think is a good idea. ” 6:22: Fox News chyron: Rubio: Trump Is a Clown, . @marcorubio: ”[@realDonaldTrump’s] been exploiting working Americans for forty years.” @BretBaier pic. twitter.   —   Fox News (@FoxNews) February 26, 2016,  6:20: Rubio trailing Trump in Rubio’s home state on all important issues: Candidate support by most important issue among #Florida Republican likely primary voters #Election2016 #FLpoll pic. twitter.   —   Quinnipiac Poll (@QuinnipiacPoll) February 26, 2016,  6:13: Christie Endorsement Hurt Rubio in betting markets, Political Prediction Market: Marco Rubio’s odds drop 10% after Christie endorsement   https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Heather Long (@byHeatherLong) February 26, 2016,  6:05: Rapper Killer Mike introducing Sanders at South Carolina rally: Killer Mike introducing Bernie Sanders: ”That goddamn firewall got a crack in it.”  —   Alex   (@aseitzwald) February 26, 2016,  5:45: On MSNBC,   communications Tyler said Cruz was right and “he had to do what he had to do. ” Regarding spreading around the video that falsely depicted Rubio mocking the Bible, says he made an “error” and apologized for it. Chuck Todd thinks that Tyler may have been a victim of the “fast news cycle. ” Tyler says he’s not “mad about it” and the campaign was “one of the greatest experiences of his life. ” He says Cruz is a “remarkably gifted guy” and Tyler loves his family. He says Cruz has a path to victory but that has narrowed. Tyler says Cruz can be the   alternative if Cruz wins two super Tuesday states and Rubio doesn’t win a state. Tyler says Rubio’s campaign will “unravel” if he loses Florida. Tyler says Trump has been succeeding because “he’s taking it to Washington. People are really hurting out there. ” He says they are tired of the politicians. Tyler doubts that Trump can change things in Washington but Americans who are tired of politics and have been “hammered” believe he can. 5:15: Maine Gov. LePage, who made illegal immigration a big issue in his reelection campaign and opposed accepting Syrian refugees, endorses Trump. “I’m just a schmuck from the streets,” Gov. LePage says after endorsing Trump,  —   Ben Terris (@bterris) February 26, 2016,  “Many people in the media, whether its television radio or print  …     are really haters of the American people,” says LePage,  —   Ben Terris (@bterris) February 26, 2016,  “I think he could be one of the greatest presidents ever,” LePage says about Trump. Suggests that he reads “Team of Rivals”  —   Ben Terris (@bterris) February 26, 2016,  “I think he could be one of the greatest presidents ever,” LePage says about Trump. Suggests that he reads “Team of Rivals”  —   Ben Terris (@bterris) February 26, 2016,  ”I was Donald Trump before Donald trump became popular,”  . LePage,  —   Ben Terris (@bterris) February 26, 2016,  5:05: More good poll numbers for Trump: JUST IN: @realDonaldTrump leads the GOP national race by   according to new our new online poll. #MTPDaily pic. twitter.   —   Meet the Press (@meetthepress) February 26, 2016,  5:02: Cruz: Christie’s Trump endorsement “troubling” for Rubio: Ted Cruz calls Chris Christie’s endorsement of Donald Trump ”No doubt troubling news for the Rubio campaign.”  —   Frank Thorp V (@frankthorpNBC) February 26, 2016,  5:00: Trump trying to make “chocker” label stick to Rubio like “ ” did to Jeb!: Never let them see you sweat! pic. twitter.   —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 26, 2016,  4:55: Rubio’s team criticizing Trump for not being “articulate. ” ’@dtoddharris gaggling en route —  not surprised Trump had to bring in Christie   he’s ”articulate,” Trump’s not pic. twitter.   —   Alexandra Jaffe (@ajjaffe) February 26, 2016,  4:45: Cruz says a Hillary v. Trump will be a race between “two rich New Yorkers. ” And he rips Trump for hiring foreign workers instead of Americans at his Florida resort and claiming that there were Americans who did not want to be waiters and waitresses. Cruz points out that is an “astonishing statement” to make to millions who have worked at places like TGI Fridays. Cruz says he is the only person who has consistently stood up for working men and women against the corrupt politicians. Cruz says on @CNN that Trump vs. Clinton would be “two rich New York liberals. ” I get attacking liberals. Cool! Attacking the rich? What?  —   Joel Pollak (@joelpollak) February 26, 2016,    4:05:  [Tony Lee] Rubio Misfired When He Tried to Attack Trump for His Twitter Typos: For arguably the first time in this campaign cycle, Rubio received live coverage from all the cable networks. And he may have inadvertently blown it. Rubio allies are praising him for ripping Trump this morning and afternoon, but his attacks may backfire on him in three ways. First, nobody cares about typos on Twitter because everybody has made them while Tweeting quickly. Second, Rubio repeated Trump’s criticisms of him —  that he is a lightweight and a choker who melts down —  on national television and it will be replayed over and over again. Guess what? Voters may start to think that he is a choker. At the very least, Rubio ensured that more voters became aware of Trump’s criticisms of him as a “chocker. ” All he did was give those criticisms more airtime. Genius. Third, when a politician’s actions do not line up with the image that he has tried to project to voters, he comes across as a phony in an election cycle when voters are craving   “authenticity. ” And that’s what happened to Rubio when he implied that foreigners can’t spell while criticizing Trump: So how does this guy, not one tweet, but three tweets misspell words so badly? I only reach two conclusions. Number one, that’s how they spell those words at the Wharton School of Business where he went. Or number two, just like Trump Tower, he must have hired a foreign worker to do his own tweets. Trump can make such comments because he has presented himself to voters as someone who is unapologetic, brash, and politically incorrect. Rubio, on the other hand, can’t because he is presenting himself as Mr. “   Correct” so attacks like that make him seem more like a phony and goes against the core of his brand. Rubio and his allies may be cheering his debate performance and “cute soundbites,” but they may not realize he is coming across as “that guy” who desperately hurls insult after insult at the guy who is dating the girl he has always wanted. It’s funny that Rubio’s allies in the permanent   class seem way more like “that guy” than the guy who gets the girl, and that is why they are myopically   each other over Rubio’s performance. The joke may be on Rubio and his “smart set” of “experts” in the end. 4:05: Drudge Report Headline: Trump Campaign Juggernaut:   too. Very significant  . Rubio offering catnip to get in coverage ahead of Super Tuesday. https:  .   —   Shane Goldmacher (@ShaneGoldmacher) February 26, 2016,  Marco Rubio, for one of the first times of the campaign, is getting LIVE coverage on CNN of his OKC rally as he attacks Donald Trump.  —   Shane Goldmacher (@ShaneGoldmacher) February 26, 2016,  3:59: Team Rubio mocking Trump’s ties: ”If you buy a Trump tie, you’re not just getting a tacky tie —  you’re getting a tie that was made in China or Mexico,” Rubio says,  —   Alexandra Jaffe (@ajjaffe) February 26, 2016,  Can we talk about the symbolism of their ties last night?   = Red = Republican. Trump = Blue = Democrat. pic. twitter.   —   Team Marco West PA (@TeamMarcoWestPA) February 26, 2016,  3:55: Cruz jokes about Trump’s hair: To which Cruz replies: ”I was told that Donald’s hair was on the grassy knoll.”  —   Vaughn Hillyard (@VaughnHillyard) February 26, 2016,  Moderator suggests investigation into Trump’s hair would make investigation into JFK assassination look like nothing.  —   Vaughn Hillyard (@VaughnHillyard) February 26, 2016,  Cruz about Trump’s hair says there are some things ”really just too big to uncover.” But says he’s had ”urge” to ”ruffle” the hair on stage.  —   Vaughn Hillyard (@VaughnHillyard) February 26, 2016,  Moderator then opens up right off the top on Trump, asking ”you’ve been close, within inches” of Trump’s hair. Launch investigation into it?  —   Vaughn Hillyard (@VaughnHillyard) February 26, 2016,  . @tedcruz speaking to about 200 at the National Religious Broadcasters Annual Convention in Nashville and  …     pic. twitter.   —   Vaughn Hillyard (@VaughnHillyard) February 26, 2016,  3:49: The Washington Post’s    residence dunce mocks Christie’s  : Maybe the thinking was that Trump would look svelte in comparison,  —   Jennifer Rubin (@JRubinBlogger) February 26, 2016,  3:45: Interesting observation: Fun fact: one of Christie’s top strategists, @rschriefer, is business partners with @stuartpstevens, who has been demonstrably  .  —   Robert Draper (@DraperRobert) February 26, 2016,  3:39: Joel Pollak on double standards as disgruntled GOP donors do research on a potential independent presidential bid: Are loyalty oaths only for @realDonaldTrump? The rest of the party takes their marbles and goes home? What’s that https:  .   —   Joel Pollak (@joelpollak) February 26, 2016,  If I heard correctly, @marcorubio is threatening to split the GOP if @realDonaldTrump is the nominee  —   @jpodhoretz suggested similar earlier,  —   Joel Pollak (@joelpollak) February 26, 2016,  3:31: Trump up in Virginia: I get hitting @realDonaldTrump with everything you’ve got. I don’t get waiting to do it until he’s almost the nominee. Hurts @GOP general.  —   Joel Pollak (@joelpollak) February 26, 2016,  New VA poll  —   Trump +23.  T at 38% to Rubio’s 23%. Cruz at 15%. https:  .   —   John Nolte (@NolteNC) February 26, 2016,  3:30: Team Kasich thinks Putin would be a great running mate for Trump : Doesn’t everyone know? Donald Trump already found his running mate.   :  .   —   John Kasich (@JohnKasich) February 26, 2016,  3:28: Huh? Stump for Trump Sisters: “Marco Rubio told us to Google Donald Trump, but I did one better, I Googled him,” Lynette “Diamond” Hardaway told CNN on Friday morning. “And when I Googled him  —   you know, he owes America and the gay community an apology, because it sounds like that he may have had a gay lifestyle in his past. So you have to be cautious when you tell people to Google people. Stuff will come up. ” WATCH: ”Stump for Trump” girls accuse Rubio of ”gay lifestyle” on live TV: https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   The Hill (@thehill) February 26, 2016,  3:25: Failed Jeb! campaign manager on Christie endorsement: “Fat Kid” Gave Lunch Money to Bully, New lesson kids: sometimes, the best option for the fat kid is to just hand his lunch money over to the bully! #TrumpChristie2016,  —   David Kochel (@ddkochel) February 26, 2016,  3:15: Rubio, in Oklahoma City, says Trump won’t be the nominee and Republicans cannot allow the Party of Reagan to be taken over by a “con man. ” He concedes that Trump is the “frontrunner” and that is why there is a “sense of urgency” to stop him. He says the GOP is built on “optimism” and “limited government. ” He blasts Trump for praising Planned Parenthood and accuses Trump of not wanting to take sides re:  . He says, “we will win Florida. ” He says “the time or action is now” and says Trump is “pulling the ultimate con job” on Americans. He blasts Trump for sticking it to the working man and hiring foreign workers when he is defending working men and railing against illegal immigration on the stump. 3:00: American Future Fund Launching Ads Ripping Trump for Trump Univ.: NEWS: Conservative group @AmFutureFund launching ad campaign on TRUMP U, starring people who say they were defrauded https:  .   —   Alex Burns (@alexburnsNYT) February 26, 2016,  2:55: After getting fired (thrown under the bus) by the Cruz campaign, Rick Tyler is now an MSNBC contributor: i’ll be on Meet the Press Daily with @chucktodd for the first time as an @MSNBC contributor.  I hope you’ll watch.  —   Rick Tyler (@rickwtyler) February 26, 2016,  2:50: [Tony Lee] In a wacky election cycle [Trump supporters who hated Christie now like him and   establishment Republicans who gushed over Christie for years now hate him] it is interesting that Trump, minus the David Duke endorsement that he disavowed, has gotten the endorsement from across the GOP spectrum (Sarah Palin, Chris Christie, Scott Brown, etc. ). In the 2014 election cycle, Joni Ernst, whose top consultant is Rubio’s top strategist, got praised as a “unifier” for getting the support of Mitt Romney and Sarah Palin. Silence from the establishment after Trump gets the endorsements from people at the opposite ends of the GOP spectrum like  . 2:47: No unified establishment front against Trump with Christie’s endorsement: CHRIS CHRISTIE endorses Trump. Yooge, significant crack in establishment unity against the Donald.  —   Sahil Kapur (@sahilkapur) February 26, 2016,  2:45: Bill Kristol: Christie endorsement is kind of thing conventional pols hurry to roll out when feeling desperate. Doesn’t work for them, won’t for Trump.  —   Bill Kristol (@BillKristol) February 26, 2016,  Flashback:   Sticking with my prediction: Trump will win no caucuses or primaries, and will run behind Ron Paul 2012 in IA and NH.  —   Bill Kristol (@BillKristol) December 8, 2015,  2:42: Interesting team of rivals to say the least: Trump endorsed today by David Duke, Dennis Rodman, and Chris Christie.  —   Tony Fratto (@TonyFratto) February 26, 2016,  2:40: Paster Jeffers appears at Trump’s rally and says Trump has 100 billion reasons not to run for President, but he wants to make American great again. Jeffers says Trump is   and people like Hillary Clinton do not have   conversion stories. Jeffers also says Trump love Evangelicals and “we who are Evangelical Christians will have a true friend in the White House” if Trump is elected. Trump says Christianity is “under siege” and every year it gets “weaker and weaker and weaker. ” He said pastors told him months ago that they were afraid of endorsing him because they may lose their   status. Trump says he is going to “work like hell” to get rid of that prohibition and “we’re going to have the strongest Christian lobby. It’s going to happen. ” 2:39: Trump praises Sarah Palin’s endorsement and the impact it has had. Earlier, he said Arizona Sheriff Joe Arpaio endorsed him because he is the toughest on the border. 2:37: Ingraham called Christie’s endorsement: Told ya, @ByronYork! ”@ChrisChristie endorses @realDonaldTrump!” Predicted the day he got out that he would endorse Trump.  —   Laura Ingraham (@IngrahamAngle) February 26, 2016,  2:35: Coulter thrilled that Christie has endorsed Trump: CHRIS CHRISTIE ENDORSES TRUMP!  He’s finally cut the cord with Wall St.  The old Christie is back!  —   Ann Coulter (@AnnCoulter) February 26, 2016,  2:33: Romney in Coulter’s dog house: Meanwhile, the ”bombshell” in Trump’s tax returns appears to be his paying for Mitt Romney’s sex change operation.  —   Ann Coulter (@AnnCoulter) February 26, 2016,  2:25: Trump Attacks Fox Again: Former Mexican President Vicente Fox is the gift that keeps on giving for Trump. It is worth noting that Fox was President George W. Bush’s first State dinner guest as they tried to work out an    deal. Then the   terrorist attacks occurred, and their   agenda got derailed. In response to Fox’s comments about not paying for that “fu*cking wall” [worth noting that Fox seems to have accepted the reality that Trump will follow through on his campaign promise and actually build the wall if he gets elected president] Trump says, “that’s the way other countries are used to talking to the United States. No more. He couldn’t believe that somebody would say Mexico would have to do something” Trump says it’s that way with Japan, China, Vietnam, India. He says these countries want to be treated with “tremendous respect” even though they don’t treat America with any respect. WATCH: @realDonaldTrump delivers a message to former Mexican president Vicente Fox in classic Trump style. https:  .   —   FOX Business (@FoxBusiness) February 26, 2016,  2:22: Trump also says he will “open up” those libel laws to sue papers like the New York Times and the Washington Post for hit pieces like “you’ve never been sued before” in order to make “lots of money. ” 2:20: Trump also says that Cruz is “tougher” and “smarter” than Rubio. He says Cruz’s lies are at least “reasonable” while Rubio is just a “lightweight” and a “ . ” 2:19: Trump says he would not accept Romney’s endorsement even if Romney wanted to endorse him. He says Romney and Jeb! are likely to endorse Rubio. Earlier, Trump Rubio will not be his running mate. 2:17: At Trump’s rally in Texas, he ridicules Mitt Romney for walking like a Penguin: . @realDonaldTrump says @MittRomney walks ”like a penguin” https:  .  https:  .   —   CNN Politics (@CNNPolitics) February 26, 2016,  2:14: At Trump’s Texas rally, he mocks Rubio for gulping water during his State of the Union response. He says Rubio is a “choker” and that may stick to him like “ ” did to Jeb! because there is a pattern: Donald Trump just gave his best Rubio impression at a Texas rally, complete with a water bottle: pic. twitter.   —   Mashable News (@MashableNews) February 26, 2016,  Donald Trump just gave his best Rubio impression at a Texas rally, complete with a water bottle: pic. twitter.   —   Mashable News (@MashableNews) February 26, 2016,  1:59 pm  —   Trump warms on Cruz —  just a little. Strange to hear @tedcruz booed in Texas. Just happened during @realDonaldTrump rally. Trump says Cruz is liar but smarter than @marcorubio,  —   Gromer M. Jeffers (@gromerjeffers) February 26, 2016,  1:50   Whaaa? Kasich in the spin room last night: 1:49 pm  —   Trump goes tit for tat, reprises Rubio “makeup” story: . @realdonaldtrump on @marcorubio backstage debate makeup:” I am not going to say he was trying to cover  up his ears.”  —   Fin Gomez (@finnygo) February 26, 2016,  1:48 pm  —   Rubio senior adviser says the attacks are meant to drive attention to Marco’s policy positions: @marcorubio senior advisor @dtoddharris on whether personal brawl underway  @realDonaldTrump will hurt eventual nom pic. twitter.   —   Sean Gallitz (@seangallitz) February 26, 2016,  1:38 pm  —   Christie stumps for Trump: Chris Christie now introducing Donald Trump at a campaign rally.  —   Jackson Proskow (@JProskowGlobal) February 26, 2016,  1:34 pm  —   HuffPo’s home page gets some blasphemy in their hot take: 1:34 pm  —   Jeb Bush’s comms director: Like Trump, Chris Christie is a pathetic, corrupt man with a tiny ego. I’m sure they bonded discussing their  insecurities over a big meal.  —   Tim Miller (@Timodc) February 26, 2016,  1:29 pm  —   Fox News anchor Judge Jeanine Pirro: @realDonaldTrump pulled the rug out from under @marcorubio, changed the narrative  with @ChrisChristie just got into Rubio’s head.  —   Jeanine Pirro (@JudgeJeanine) February 26, 2016,  1:27 pm  —   This   teamup could strengthen Cruz in Texas re: the “New York liberal” line of attack: New Jersey bully Chris Christie endorses New York bully Donald Trump: https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   New York Magazine (@NYMag) February 26, 2016,  1:24 pm  —   Gingrich: Christie may have opened up the establishment lane for Trump. This Chris Christie endorsement of Trump is real signal to GOP establishment that they had better begin thinking about Trump as the future,  —   Newt Gingrich (@newtgingrich) February 26, 2016,  1:20 pm  —   John Kasich reveals endorsement of former NJ Gov. Christine Todd Whitman. Bold time to roll out a (former) New Jersey Governor endorsement, John Kasich. pic. twitter.   —   DJ Judd (@juddzeez) February 26, 2016,  1:17 pm  —   Trump repeats attacks on Rubio, condensed: “He doesn’t have the talent, he doesn’t have the temperament, he can never make us great. ” 1:16 pm  —   Trump: “I used to call Ted Cruz a liar, but now I’ll call Marco Rubio [one]. ” 1:13 pm  —   Trump says “every single year I am audited” and my wealthy friends barely ever are. 1:10 pm  —   Trump says Rubio “abandoned Florida” and, in contrast, he has “invested hundreds of millions” into the state. 1:07 pm  —   Another   candidate says Christie isn’t being principled: https:  .    [looks like Santorum quickly deleted] 1:06 pm  —   Christie keeps hammering at the Senator candidates: “Turn away from the amateur acts from Washington, DC. ” 1:02 pm  —   Reporter asks Donald Trump about David Duke’s endorsement. “I disavow it,” Trump responds. 1:01 pm  —   Christie says Rubio is “wholly unprepared” for job of presidency and Trump has lots of experience putting together budgets and making “executive decisions. ” 1:00 pm  —   Christie said he made final decision to endorse Trump yesterday. 12:57 pm  —   Trump tells reporters he’ll win the “Trump University” civil lawsuit. Reporter tries to compare that to Hillary Clinton’s classified email investigation Christie gets in the reporter’s grill and calls it “ridiculous. ” 12:56 pm  —   Trump brings up his own backstage debate anecdote to mock Rubio —  that he was putting on too much makeup, had to use a “trowel. ” 12:55 pm  —   Christie sounding a bit more natural, less rehearsed as he pivots to trashing Rubio’s campaign speech from this morning. 12:52 pm  —   Trump, Christie call Rubio “desperate” because he’s down in Florida polls. 12:52 pm  —   Christie says Trump has the best chance against Hillary Clinton, not “junior Senators. ” Trump is “rewriting the playbook,” he says. 12:50 pm  —   Chris Christie: “I am proud to be here to endorse Donald Trump to be President of the United States. ” 12:49 pm  —   Whoa. CHRIS CHRISTIE is here with @realDonaldTrump at the press conference,  —   Jeremy Diamond (@JDiamond1) February 26, 2016,  NOW: Gov Chris Christie to endorse Donald Trump,  —   Jesse Rodriguez (@JesseRodriguez) February 26, 2016,  12:48 pm  —   Hm? Trump announcement actually will be major,  —   Maggie Haberman (@maggieNYT) February 26, 2016,  12:36 pm  —   Fluff, fluff, fluff: Hillary Clinton after crashing a bachelor party: ”I love having men at my feet” https:  .   —   Sam Levine (@srl) February 26, 2016,  12:34 pm  —   Whoa. The winner of last night’s     debate: Donald Trump, per @InJo poll https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Hunter Schwarz (@hunterschwarz) February 26, 2016,  12:29 pm  —   Cruz takes aim at Trump’s populist image: . @tedcruz: ”Donald Trump is adopting the rhetoric of a populist. Donald Trump, like Hillary Clinton, is a rich New York liberal.”  —   Phil Mattingly (@Phil_Mattingly) February 26, 2016,  12:27 pm  —   Via Charlie Spiering, a montage of Rubio’s “con artist” talking point: 12:25 pm  —   Cruz rally right now: says Trump had a tough night but goes with a more positive message. ”If you don’t want to see Donald Trump as the nominee, we need to unite,” Cruz says  —   makes pitch that he’s the guy to unite behind.  —   Phil Mattingly (@Phil_Mattingly) February 26, 2016,  Cruz says last night’s debate provided clarity  distinction. He says Donald Trump had a tough one. pic. twitter.   —   Hayley Mason (@WSMVHayleyMason) February 26, 2016,  Cruz, in his pitch to voters: The candidate running    with Donald Trump across Super Tuesday is me.  —   Tom Benning (@tombenning) February 26, 2016,  12:22 pm  —   Our National Security Editor Frances Martel remarks: Somebody’s looking to be ambassador to Pyongyang! Yes @tedcruz @realdonaldtrump did fire me on Celebrity Apprentice. But he’s about to fire your ass too! #MakeAmericaGreatAgain,  —   Dennis Rodman (@dennisrodman) February 26, 2016,  12:13 pm  —   Dave Weigel with the bantz! Rubio: ”Donald Trump has never punched anyone in the face.” We rate this claim PANTS ON FIREhttps:  .   —   daveweigel (@daveweigel) February 26, 2016,  12:09 pm  —   Breitbart’s Charlie Spiering’s full report on Rubio’s   stump speech: Rubio pulled out his smartphone and read Trump’s multiple tweets that called him a “chocker” to a raucous crowd of supporters who cheered him on for taking on the billionaire candidate. He also mocked Trump, alleging he was “having a meltdown” during the debate, accusing him of putting makeup on his “sweat mustache” and asking for a full length mirror during the break. 12:08 pm  —   Trump spox Katrina Pierson floats a response to Rubio’s new tough tone: Wouldn’t it have been awesome if Reps running scorched earth campaign against @realDonaldTrump would have done the same against Obama in 08?  —   Katrina Pierson (@KatrinaPierson) February 26, 2016,  12:04 pm  —   Trump Facebook video —  what I would do on my first day in office: 12:02 pm  —   Can I get a “Why We Lose,” @NolteNC? Lindsey Graham jokes about murder of Ted Cruz https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   WMTW TV (@WMTWTV) February 26, 2016,  12:00 pm  —   Kasich is feeling good in LaHood. Fmr Transportation Sec. Ray LaHood now backing John Kasich,  —   Kathleen Ronayne (@kronayne) February 26, 2016,  11:58 am  —   Whoa! Report claims Hillary Clinton still isn’t on the primary ballot for Delaware. Signature deadline is TODAY: @HillaryClinton, according to the state of Delaware, you haven’t filed papers to run for president here. #NetDE https:  .   —   delawareonline (@delawareonline) February 26, 2016,  11:53 am  —   The liberal magazine Newsweek isn’t impressed with Rubio’s debate performance: “Like a hormonal teenager with control issues, Rubio blurted [his Trump attacks] out so quickly that the fusillade fell flat. ” 11:34 am  —   Trump has fixed and reposted the misspelled tweets after Rubio mocked them in his stump speech. Lying Ted Cruz and lightweight choker  Marco Rubio teamed up last night in a last ditch effort to stop our great movement. They failed!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 26, 2016,  Lightweight choker Marco Rubio looks like a little boy on stage. Not presidential material!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 26, 2016,  Wow, every poll said I won the debate last night. Great honor!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 26, 2016,  11:32 am  —   Rubio’s web page starts a “Stop Donald Trump” campaign: Friends don’t let friends vote for con artists. https:  .   —   Marco Rubio (@marcorubio) February 26, 2016,  11:29 am  —   Marco gets savage! . @MarcoRubio in Dallas, on Trump: ”Just like Trump Towers, maybe he hires foreign workers to do his tweets.”  —   Patrick Svitek (@PatrickSvitek) February 26, 2016,  . @MarcoRubio tells Dallas crowd Trump had   mirror in commercial breaks last night, ”Maybe to make sure his pants weren’t wet.”  —   Willie Geist (@WillieGeist) February 26, 2016,  11:25 am  —   “Donald Trump has never punched anyone in the face. ” . @marcorubio breathing fire in Dallas: “Tough guy?   …     Donald Trump has never punched anyone in the face. ” Says he “begged” for SS protection,  —   Tal Kopan (@TalKopan) February 26, 2016,  11:19 am  —   Glenn Beck on Rubio’s chances. . @glennbeck: There is no mathematical way for @marcorubio to win at this point. https:  .   —   TheBlaze Radio (@TheBlazeRadio) February 26, 2016,  11:15 am  —   Rubio rally in Texas —  slamming Trump, quiet so far on Cruz. Now @MarcoRubio, who shied away for so long, calls @realDonaldTrump campaign ”a circus act”  —   John Harwood (@JohnJHarwood) February 26, 2016,  . @marcorubio in TX: ” @realDonaldTrump did a better job of defending Planned Parenthood than Harry Reid  …    it is time to open our eyes!”  —   Fin Gomez (@finnygo) February 26, 2016,  . @marcorubio spent the 1st part of his remarks in Dallas picking up where he left off last night  —   attacking Trump pic. twitter.   —   Sean Gallitz (@seangallitz) February 26, 2016,  . @marcorubio: ”My mother was a maid, the kind of people Donald Trump hires from other countries.”  —   Patrick Svitek (@PatrickSvitek) February 26, 2016,  . @marcorubio opens his Dallas rally piling on Trump. ”It’s time to pull his mask off so the people can see what we’re dealing with”  —   Gabe Gutierrez (@gabegutierrez) February 26, 2016,  . @marcorubio has yet to mention Sen. Ted Cruz in his own state @NBCDFW #Decision2016 pic. twitter.   —   Julie Fine (@JulieFineNBC5) February 26, 2016,  CNN anchor as they pull away from @marcorubio rally: ”All we can say right now is: Oh. My. God.”  —   Patrick Brennan (@ptbrennan11) February 26, 2016,  11:13 am  —   Someone was gonna do it at some point. ”Stump for Trump” sisters suggest to @CarolCNN that @marcorubio has a gay past. #Trump2016 #Marcomentum @CNNnewsroom,  —   Lindsey Leake (@NewsyLindsey) February 26, 2016,  11:10 am  —   Big ratings for last night’s debate. 10:50 am  —   Media mocks Trump’s Twitter typos. Politico wonders if Trump is intentionally trolling.  —   Leightweight chocker Marco Rubio looks like a little boy on stage. Not presidential material!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 26, 2016,   —   Lying Ted Cruz and leightweight chocker Marco Rubio teamed up last night in a last ditch effort to stop our great movement. They failed!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 26, 2016,  —   Trump’s typos are like chaff throwing off a   missile. He wants everyone to talk about them, not Trump U, etc.  —   Blake Hounshell (@blakehounshell) February 26, 2016,   —   10:31 am  —   Another poll shows Trump has a new ceiling over 40%  —   Rhode Island #Trump 41% Rubio 14% Kasich 12% Cruz 8% Carson 4% Brown University #MakeAmericaGreatAgain #Trump2016,  —   Dan Scavino (@DanScavino) February 25, 2016,   —   8:47 am  —   Trump calls it an “honer” that he won all the   polls:  —   Wow, every poll said I won the debate last night. Great honer!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 26, 2016,   —   8:28 am  —   Trump rips Rubio as a “choker” and “lightweight”    —   Lightweight Marco Rubio was working hard last night. The problem is, he is a choker, and once a choker, always a chocker! Mr. Meltdown.  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 26, 2016,   —   8:07 am  —   Rubio’s fans are complaining about Trump dominating all the   coverage but Rubio always disappears after these debates. He’s never around to be interviewed.  —   8:01 am  —   Seven Reasons Democrats Should Be Terrified of Donald Trump,  —   7:44 am  —   Trump dominates in Friday’s new round of polls, Mass: Trump +21  —   Trump 40, Rubio 19, Cruz 10, Mich: Trump +24  —   Trump 41, Rubio 17, Cruz 14, Florida: Trump +20  —   Trump 45, Rubio 25, Cruz 10, Virginia: Trump +14  —   Trump 41, Rubio  27, Cruz  14, Georgia: Trump +26  —   Trump 45, Rubio 19, Cruz 16,  —   7:31 am  —   RubioRobot calls Trump a “con man’ 5 times on CBS morning show.  —   . @marcorubio just called @realdonaldtrump a “con artist” at least 5 times during our @CBSThisMorning interview pic. twitter.   —   CBS This Morning (@CBSThisMorning) February 26, 2016,  —    —   