An agreement between the State of Texas and groups that attempted to strike down the state’s photo voter identification law came to an agreement Wednesday that will keep the election integrity policy largely in place for the November elections and thereafter. [Under the deal, voters with valid forms of photo ID or ones “expired by no more than four years” will be allowed to vote a regular ballot, according to court documents obtained by Breitbart Texas. In trade, individuals presenting a valid “voter registration certificate, certified birth certificate, a current utility bill, a bank statement, a government check, a paycheck, or any other government document that displays the voter’s name and an address and complete and sign a reasonable impediment declaration shall be permitted” to vote a regular ballot as well.  The agreement also specifies that voters declaring an inability to acquire proper photo ID in time for the election cannot be questioned by election officials unless “conclusive evidence” is presented to demonstrate that an identity is being falsified. Further, identifying documents provided at   do not have to match addresses shown in the registry of voters. As always, poll watchers will not be allowed to communicate with voters directly. Texas has agreed to spend at least $2. 5 million for a public outreach campaign to educate voters about the new procedures by no later than August 15. The State is also required to develop election worker trainings by the same date. “Reasonable impediment declarations” shall be translated into Spanish, Chinese and Vietnamese in Texas counties required to do so in accordance with Section 203 of the Voting Rights Act. A copy of the order entered at the U. S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas, Corpus Christi Division has been provided below. Logan Churchwell is the Assistant Editor and a founding member of the Breitbart Texas team. You can follow him on Twitter @LCChurchwell. Texas Voter ID Agreement by Logan Churchwell on Scribd,  Editor’s note: Logan Churchwell serves as the Communications Director for   True the Vote  —   a nonprofit that attempted to intervene in defense of the voter ID law in 2013.