House Speaker Paul Ryan took aim at Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton during a speech to college Republicans in Madison, Wisconsin. While acknowledging “this election has taken some dark —  sometimes very dark —  turns,” Ryan ignored for the most part Republican nominee Donald Trump and the controversies surrounding him. Instead Ryan focused on the failures of liberal progressivism. [“The last eight years has been one long liberal progressive experiment,” Ryan said Friday. “Time and again, we have been told if we just spend more money, create more programs to live under and more rules to live by, put one more wing on the great palace of government, this will solve all of our problems. ”   “Yet after all that, we feel less safe and less secure. Less free and less prosperous. As government grows more unaccountable and unresponsive, there is less faith and less trust. And that is because liberal progressivism simply does not work,” he continued. “It is the longest con. ”  The Wisconsin Republican went on to ask, directing his sights on this election, “What vision do Hillary Clinton and her party offer the people?”  “The America they want does not stand out. It is ordinary. There is a gloom and a grayness to things,” he continued, saying: In the America they want, the driving force is the state. It is a place where government is taken away from the people, and we are ruled by our betters  …    by a cold and unfeeling bureaucracy that replaces original thinking. It is a place where the government twists the law —  and the Constitution itself —  to suit its purposes. A place where liberty is always under assault, where passion —  the very stuff of life —  is extinguished. As for what Republicans alternatively offer for the future of America, Ryan says, “We want an America that values disruption and innovation. Because in a time when you can customize your life, right down to the channels you want,     designs [referring to Democratic policies] are creaky and worn out. ” This is what liberal progressivism does. Even in an age of diversity, it demands conformity and sameness.    …     It traps people. It traps people in health care ‘exchanges’ you can’t navigate, rules you can’t understand or afford, and a tax code you can’t make heads or tails out of unless you hire an army of lawyers. It is not about freeing you —  it is about limiting you. There is no room to run, no chance to grow, or to fail for that matter. People are not needed, they are counted and sorted. This is how you can so casually classify whole groups of people as a ‘basket of deplorables,’ as Hillary Clinton did.