Securitas, the United States subsidiary of the Swedish based   security services powerhouse Securitas AB, has confirmed that Dahir Adan, the Somali refugee who attacked nine people at a mall in St. Cloud, Minnesota Saturday before he was shot and killed by an   police officer, was a “former   employee. ”[In a statement released Monday, the company said:  Securitas confirms that Dahir Adan was a former,   Securitas employee who resigned in June 2016. Adan was hired in accordance with Minnesota State law and company policy. We confirm that Adan was assigned to Electrolux. Securitas has not been contacted by law enforcement in this matter but will cooperate fully if contacted. Adan was not employed by Securitas at the time of the incident and Securitas does not provided security services at the Crossroads Center Mall. On behalf of our 330, 000 employees, Securitas wishes to extend our thoughts and prayers to those affected by the events on Saturday in Minnesota and New York City. Eloise Hale, Vice President of Communications at Electrolux, released this emailed statement to Breitbart News on Monday morning: First, the media coverage is inaccurate and Electrolux is uninvolved in this story. Mr. Adan was an employee of Securitas, a security provider. He was not an Electrolux employee. For a few months, Securitas assigned him as a temporary weekend security guard, which ended last June, at Electrolux Home Products in St. Cloud. Several early stories in other media outlets on Monday incorrectly reported that Dahir Adan “was temporarily assigned to the Electrolux store in St. Cloud’s Crossroads Center mall. ” Electrolux does not have a store in the Crossroads Center Mall. It does, however, have a manufacturing facility in St. Cloud. According to eyewitness accounts, Adan wore a security guard uniform on Saturday night when he attacked nine people with a knife at the mall in St. Cloud. Breitbart News asked Securitas if the company required Adan to return his security guard uniform when he resigned in June but did not receive a response.   ***UPDATE***