After years of Muslim immigration to Europe, nations including France, Germany, the UK, and Belgium are seeing the effects of radical Islamic terrorism. [According to Fox News, the Islamic State claims responsibility for the Brussels bombings that have thus far killed 34 people and injured dozens others.  “There is only one difference between us and them,” writes Ann Corcoran at Refugee Resettlement Watch. “They have been seeing the colonization longer and the percentage of the Muslim population is higher than ours is here in America. How can our ‘leaders’ possibly not see the same future for us if we allow the Muslim population to continue to grow exponentially?” Europe allowed more than a million migrants and refugees to enter the continent in 2015, up from 280, 000 in 2014. President Barack Obama intends to bring in 10, 000 Syrian refugees to the U. S. in fiscal year 2016  —   five times the number resettled in the past four years. About 98 percent of the Syrian refugees are Muslim. While Corcoran observes President George W. Bush admitted Muslim refugees into the U. S. as well, she states the number totaled 154, 160 since the fall of 2008 and the election of Obama. “Those numbers do not include all the Muslims who came in through the Diversity Visa Lottery, those who are here in Temporary Protected Status, Student visa holders and the list goes on,” she adds. “And, it doesn’t include all of those who have entered the US illegally and then applied for asylum!” As Breitbart London reported last September, five of the wealthiest Muslim countries have refused to accept Syrian refugees, citing that doing so would invite the risk of terrorism. The attack in Brussels comes as the state of Michigan is expected to take in another 5, 100 Syrian refugees in 2016 alone  —   the highest number since 2002. The influx will occur even as intelligence officials warn that radical Islamic extremists posing as refugees will launch an attack in the U. S. this year, reports the Detroit News. Below is a tweet from a Pakistani member of parliament following the attack in Brussels, stating ultimately the West is reaping what is has sown: My sympathies wd #Brussels  bombing victims! What west did to others, now time to reap Europe caught in it wd innocent people getting killed,  —   Maiza Hameed (@MaizaHameed) March 22, 2016,  Since October 1, 141 Syrian refugees have entered the U. S. with Michigan having accepted 148  —   the most during that time. Since the start of the Syrian Civil War in 2011, Michigan has resettled 335 Syrian refugees  —   also the most in the U. S. Lt. Gen. Vincent Stewart, director of the Defense Intelligence Agency, warned Congress last month members of the Islamic State presenting as refugees “will probably attempt to   …     direct attacks on the U. S. homeland in 2016. ” Lutheran Social Services of Michigan’s Refugee Resettlement and Repatriation Services, however, is sponsoring the Syrian refugees and dismissing concerns. “In the past, Detroit has had a welcoming spirit, and the melting pot that has been established in our area reflects that,” said Mihaela Mitrofan, program manager of the Lutheran program. “We want to continue to keep that spirit going. ” Department of Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson admitted in testimony last week before the House Homeland Security Committee that accepting Syrian refugees escaping their country’s civil war could present a security threat to the United States and added that security has been enhanced. “Given the prospect of the   attack in the homeland, we have intensified our work with state and local law enforcement,” Johnson said. “Almost every day, DHS and the FBI share intelligence and information with Joint Terrorism Task Forces, fusion centers, local police chiefs and sheriffs. ” “This has placed us in a situation where we need to talk to more people and continue the advocacy work,” Mitrofan said, nevertheless. “To generalize the entire refugee population as terrorists is a sad thing. ” Oakland County Executive L. Brooks Patterson said welcoming more refugees into the U. S. is “opening ourselves up for a tragedy. ” “I’m just parroting what (intelligence officials) have said: That they expect terrorists to imbed with refugees and carry out an attack here, and that we can’t vet them,” he said.