Miley Cyrus will star in Woody Allen’s new television series for Amazon. [According to Deadline, the pop star will star alongside Elaine May and Allen himself in the      TV series that Allen is developing for the streaming service.  Little else is known about the series, other than that it takes place in the 1960s and Allen is writing and directing all six episodes. The series reportedly begins shooting in March. May last worked with Allen in the 2000 caper comedy Small Time Crooks. At the Television Critics Association summer press tour in August, Amazon Studios executives were forced to defend their collaboration with Allen in the wake of sexual abuse allegations leveled against him in 2014 by his adopted daughter, Dylan Farrow. In an open letter published in February 2014, Farrow detailed her allegations of sexual abuse against her adoptive father, which she wrote happened “routinely” and were “skillfully hidden. ” She wrote: “[W]hen I was seven years old, Woody Allen took me by the hand and led me into a dim,   attic on the second floor of our house,” Farrow wrote. “He told me to lay on my stomach and play with my brother’s electric train set. Then he sexually assaulted me. He talked to me while he did it, whispering that I was a good girl, that this was our secret, promising that we’d go to Paris and I’d be a star in his movies. I remember staring at that toy train, focusing on it as it traveled in its circle around the attic. To this day, I find it difficult to look at toy trains. ” When Amazon executives at TCA press tour were asked whether they’d taken the sexual assault allegations into consideration before asking Allen to collaborate on a show, Amazon Studios head Roy Price batted the question away. “I think you have to look at the whole picture, but  …     yeah, take everything into account, but our focus is on the fact that he is a great filmmaker and storyteller,” Price said at the time. “And so we look forward to the show in 2016. ” In an interview with Deadline last year, Allen said he “regretted every second” since he agreed to collaborate on the television series with Amazon.