Liberal filmmaker Michael Moore recently released a surprise   Trump documentary, Michael Moore in TrumpLand, that seeks to persuade Americans to vote for Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton in November  —   but one segment of the film features Moore describing the Republican candidate’s appeal, and Trump posted the audio from the segment on Twitter Thursday in an apparent dig at Moore. [“I agree, [Michael Moore]  To all Americans, I see you  I hear you. I am your voice,” Trump posted on Twitter, along with a link to audio of a portion of Moore’s new   film.  I agree, @MMFlint —   To all Americans, I see you  I hear you. I am your voice. Vote to #DrainTheSwamp   me on  . https:  .   —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 27, 2016,  The   segment from Moore’s film has gone viral online. In it, Moore delivers a   monologue in which he explains why he believes Trump’s victorious election will serve as “the biggest ‘F*ck you’ ever recorded in human history. ” “They see that the elites, who ruined their lives, hate Trump,” Moore says in the film about the motivation driving the candidate’s supporters. “Corporate America hates Trump. Wall Street hates Trump. The career politicians hate Trump. The media hate Trump, after they loved him and created him and now hate him. Thank you, media. The enemy of my enemy is who I’m voting for on November 8th. ” Michael Moore in TrumpLand was based on a   play the filmmaker performed over two nights at a small theater in a heavily Republican corner of Ohio. The film is playing in two theaters in Los Angeles and New York through this week and was also released on iTunes. Moore has previously expressed hope that “millions” of Americans would see the film before Election Day. While the rest of the   TrumpLand is described by the New York Times as a “not very entertaining   campaign film,” Moore has repeatedly predicted that Trump will win the presidential election. In June, Moore told Business Insider in a separate interview that Trump has an “excellent chance” to become president.   Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @JeromeEHudson