From the sophisticated Dadaism of “Atlanta” to the solemn mind games of “Westworld,” the television season just past featured shows that were good for us. Heading into 2017, the   season offers a batch of shows that promise to be good fun, from the   dramedy “Sneaky Pete” to the new adventures of Archie and the gang in “Riverdale” to the continued adventures of Diane Lockhart in “The Good Fight. ” (Though seriousness isn’t lacking  —   “The Americans” returns, and some viewers may find the bleak future of “The Handmaid’s Tale” a little too close to home.) Here’s a look at 15 shows worth keeping an eye out for. SNEAKY PETE (Amazon, Jan. 13) The most promising Amazon pilot of the last few years finally comes to fruition, a year and a half after the entertaining first episode was posted. Bryan Cranston and Graham Yost (“Justified”) are behind this series about a con man (Giovanni Ribisi) who is released from prison and stumbles into an opportunity: pretending to be his former cellmate, whose family is in the   business. (David Shore, creator of “House M. D.,” wrote the pilot but was replaced as showrunner by Mr. Yost.) The cast includes Margo Martindale, Peter Gerety and Marin Ireland, and the storytelling is light but soulful. A SERIES OF UNFORTUNATE EVENTS (Netflix, Jan. 13) This adaptation of Daniel Handler’s “Lemony Snicket” books, written by Mr. Handler and executive produced by him and Barry Sonnenfeld, has a Wes Anderson look and feel. Patrick Warburton narrates as Lemony Snicket, and Neil Patrick Harris, in heavy prosthetic makeup, plays Count Olaf, the malevolent guardian of the Baudelaire children. HOMELAND (Showtime, Jan. 15) The setting, for the first time, is New York, where Carrie Mathison lives with her now chatty daughter and defends Muslim Americans accused of terrorism. Saul and Dar brief a liberal female   (oops) and scramble to take care of spy business before the inauguration. But in the early going, at least, it’s really all about Carrie and Quinn. If you’re a Quarrie believer, prepare yourself for Week 2. RIVERDALE (CW, Jan. 26) Betty’s on Adderall, Archie’s having sex with a teacher, and Josie and the Pussycats are rehearsing down the hall. Roberto   and Greg Berlanti’s adaptation of the Archie Comics characters adds a dash of “Twin Peaks”   weirdness to a main course of “Gossip Girl” teenage   complete with G. G.  narration by Jughead. (Madchen Amick, who was in “Twin Peaks” and “Gossip Girl,” plays Betty’s mother.) THE QUAD (BET, Jan. 31) Your desire for a glossy, sprawling melodrama with a serious edge could be satisfied by this new series set at a fictional historically black college in Georgia. Anika Noni Rose plays the embattled new president and Ruben   the leader of the school’s famous marching band, which eats up a disproportionate chunk of the academic budget. SANTA CLARITA DIET (Netflix, Feb. 3) Victor Fresco, creator of “Better Off Ted” and “Andy Richter Controls the Universe,” gets to take his brand of   even further in this sometimes    Netflix comedy that leavens sitcom formulas with copious gore. Drew Barrymore stars as a sitcom mom whose sudden zombification draws her family together and noticeably improves her sex life Timothy Olyphant plays her   husband. LEGION (FX, Feb. 8) The writer and producer Noah Hawley (“Fargo” on FX) lets his inner Terry Gilliam off the leash in this series featuring a Marvel Comics mutant whose power is to absorb others’ powers. The early episodes are frenetic and hard to follow, but there’s promise in the casting: Dan Stevens (“Downton Abbey”) a more subtle and interesting actor than we usually get in superhero roles. PLANET EARTH II (BBC America, Feb. 18) A decade after the original “Planet Earth,” David Attenborough and the BBC Natural History Unit are back with another seven hours of gorgeous nature porn, shot over the course of three years in 40 countries. BIG LITTLE LIES (HBO, Feb. 19). This   HBO drama looks a lot lighter than recent offerings like “The Night Of,” “Westworld” or even “The Young Pope. ” Based on a novel by Liane Moriarty, it’s about the marital and criminal misadventures of women whose children attend the same school, and the trailer promises beaches and   sex. The real story here, though, is pedigree: The   was created by the Gandalf of TV writers, David E. Kelley directed by   Vallée (“Dallas Buyers Club”) and boasts a   cast that includes Reese Witherspoon, Nicole Kidman, Shailene Woodley, Alexander Skarsgard and Laura Dern. THE GOOD FIGHT (CBS All Access, Feb. 19) This much anticipated spinoff of the   legal drama “The Good Wife”  —   in which Christine Baranski reprises her role as the regal Diane Lockhart  —   makes its premiere on CBS’s fledgling streaming service. THE AMERICANS (FX, March) Television’s best hourlong show returns, and we trust that the plot strands introduced in the   premiere will cohere into gripping and subtle drama. The Soviet embeds Elizabeth and Philip have a new target, their daughter Paige keeps maturing into a deadly problem, the F. B. I. agent Stan Beeman remains wonderfully obtuse, and before the first hour is over, someone we like dies. Spy business as usual. NATIONAL TREASURE (Hulu, March 1) This BBC    —   based on the police investigation that resulted, most notably, in the posthumous   revelations about the television and radio personality Jimmy Savile  —   has a great central duo: Robbie Coltrane (“Cracker,” the Harry Potter movies) plays a revered British comedian accused of pedophilia, and Julie Walters (“Educating Rita,” “Billy Elliot”) plays his wife. TRIAL  ERROR (NBC, March 7) There’s no reason to think that this series, about a young New York lawyer who travels to the South to defend a wacky poetry professor accused of murder, won’t be an entirely conventional network sitcom. But the professor is played by John Lithgow, 16 years out from “3rd Rock From the Sun,” so it might be worth a look. HARLOTS (Hulu, March 29) Among the season’s British costume dramas, this one  —   a satirical dramedy starring Samantha Morton and Lesley Manville as dueling brothel owners in   London  —   is my pick over “Victoria” and “Taboo. ” THE HANDMAID’S TALE (Hulu, April 26) Elisabeth Moss (“Mad Men”) plays a handmaid, or sex slave and childbearer, in this adaptation of Margaret Atwood’s novel about a   America (renamed Gilead) ruled by religious extremists. The pilot gives promise that the series will emphasize science fiction over philosophy, which wouldn’t be a bad thing.