The Los Angeles Police Department responded to the home of Chris Brown early Tuesday morning after a woman claimed the singer pointed a gun at her and threatened her in a violent rage. [Police were dispatched to Brown’s Tarzana home at around 3 a. m. Tuesday, according to the Los Angeles Times.  TMZ identified the woman who called the police as Miss California Regional Baylee Curran. Curran told the gossip outlet that she had been admiring a piece of jewelry at Brown’s home when the singer lost his temper, allegedly pointed a gun at her and ordered her to leave. The woman added that members of Brown’s entourage tried to get her to sign a nondisclosure agreement, though she reportedly left without signing. As of 12 p. m. PT, police were still outside Brown’s home, reportedly waiting to obtain a warrant to search the premises for the weapon. Brown posted several videos to Instagram during the standoff, in which he cursed the police and made reference to the Black Lives Matter movement. “I ain’t did sh*t, I ain’t gonna do sh*t, and it’s always going to be f*ck the police. Black lives matter,” Brown said in the second of three videos posted to the social media platform. “Good luck, when you get the warrant or whatever you need to do, you’re gonna walk right up in here, and you’re gonna see nothing, you idiots. I’m tired of f*cking dealing with y’all. ” (Warning: Graphic Language) A video posted by 1 YOU ❤️ 2 HATE (@chrisbrownofficial) on Aug 30, 2016 at 9:07am PDT,  A video posted by 1 YOU ❤️ 2 HATE (@chrisbrownofficial) on Aug 30, 2016 at 9:16am PDT,  A video posted by 1 YOU ❤️ 2 HATE (@chrisbrownofficial) on Aug 30, 2016 at 9:22am PDT,  “Y’all are the worst gang in the world, the police. And I said it, f*ck you,” he added. According to TMZ, police have retrieved at least one gun, other weapons and drugs after the singer allegedly threw a duffel bag out of the window of his home. Brown has a history of   with Los Angeles police. The   singer was sentenced to six years of probation and 1, 000 hours of community service after a violent assault on   Rihanna in 2009. Brown has also previously made inflammatory statements about police on social media. In March, the singer posted a video to Instagram urging those protesting at Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump’s rallies to travel in large groups so as not to be thwarted. He captioned the video, “F*ck Trump and f*ck the pigs. ” Update: Sources on the ground reportedly tell TMZ that Brown will be arrested shortly. Update 2 (2:15 p. m. PT): The Associated Press reports that police served a search warrant at Brown’s house and the singer came out of his house peacefully. No arrests have been made. Update 3 (6:00 p. m. PT): Brown has been arrested for felony assault with a deadly weapon, according to TMZ.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum,  