Actor Ashton Kutcher thinks supporters of Republican presidential frontrunner Donald Trump are being punk’d. [“It hurts me inside to watch people rally behind someone that stands in that way,” said Kutcher this week.  While not naming Trump directly, Kutcher sat next to his former That ‘70s Show, and current The Ranch   Danny Masterson for an interview on CNN’s website to complain about attitudes toward immigration in the U. S. “It will not succeed, that pursuit will not succeed in our country” said Kutcher, as Masterson sat quietly. The actor added: And the people that are rallying behind this individual are people that are being bamboozled and they’re actually just so disenfranchised with a government that has been in gridlock for so long that they want to support something that they feel is different, not something they feel is right. It’s my belief that people that have a greater enlightenment about the fact that this world is only held up by the notion that we’re all in it together  …     That ideology will be the ideology that wins. Kutcher has been   and   on Twitter over the years. Check out this #selfie supporting immigration reform! #Selfies4Reform #TimeIsNow https:  .  via @FWD_us pic. twitter.   —   ashton kutcher (@aplusk) May 8, 2014,  interesting data: immigrants earn about $240 billion a yr, pay about $90 billion a yr in taxes, and use about $5 billion in public benefits,  —   ashton kutcher (@aplusk) December 20, 2015,  I’m participating in @FWD_us Day of Action by telling my senators to vote for #immigration reform. Join me: ”https:  .  ? src=hash”>#MoveFWD,  —   ashton kutcher (@aplusk) June 26, 2013,  Why do I get the feeling that the best hedge against a Sanders or Trump nomination may be buying bitcoin?  —   ashton kutcher (@aplusk) January 29, 2016,  The actor has also posted in support of the U. S. allowing in Syrian refugees. Not sure how you feel about the Syrian refugee debate? Here’s some interesting info to chew on. https:  .   —   ashton kutcher (@aplusk) November 19, 2015,  In January, Kucther wrote that he was “fascinated” by the prospect of former New York City mayor Michael Bloomberg launching an independent presidential bid. Fascinated by the potential of @MikeBloomberg running for president.  —   ashton kutcher (@aplusk) January 24, 2016, 