For the second time this week, presumptive GOP presidential nominee Donald Trump’s senior policy adviser, Stephen Miller, read straight from the pages of Peter Schweizer’s book, Clinton Cash, at a Trump campaign rally. [Miller told the packed crowd that Bill and Hillary Clinton’s   global scheme of trading political favors for financial kickbacks is “documented in Clinton Cash —  which everybody should get a copy of —  and it documents a simple premiss of how government operates under Hillary. ”  “Give money to Bill, get favors from Hill,” Miller said, while holding up a copy of the book and laughing along with the cheering crowd of Trump devotees. Miller, as he did Tuesday in Albuquerque, New Mexico, took the stage in Fresno, California, Friday and slammed Hillary Clinton as “the most completely     human being in God’s United States of America. ” “Listen to this,” Miller said before reading an excerpt from Clinton Cash that explains how Hillary Clinton’s State Department approved the sale of   of America’s uranium assets to Russia after interested investors donated $145 million in donations to the Clinton Foundation. WATCH THE VIDEO OF MILLER’S SPEECH: “So Hill helps Russians get control of American uranium assets because they give money to Bill,” Miller said as the crowd booed the revelation in unison. Miller said of   of State Hillary Clinton, “She sold our government’s security to the highest bidder. ” At Tuesday’s Trump rally in Albuquerque, New Mexico, Miller launched a similar line of attack against the Clinton campaign, calling Hillary and Bill Clinton’s   graft a “money laundering scheme. ” “I’m here today with a very important mission, which is to talk about this very important book here it’s called Clinton Cash,” Miller said at the rally. “Has anybody heard of it?” he asked the crowd of 10, 000 people, while holding up a copy of The New York Times   book. Miller wrapped up his speech Friday in Fresno by warning the crowd that a President Hillary Clinton would gladly “grind” hardworking Americans “under her hill as they get poorer and poorer and poorer, while she gets richer and richer and richer. ” “We’re not going to have a government where you just give money to Bill to get favors from Hill,” Miller said, adding: We’re going to have a government, folks, where the people who make the decisions are the people in this room today —  the people who follow the rules, the people who go to work every day, the patriotic loyal citizens of this country, who are the heartbeat of the nation, the pulse of this country, the lifeblood of the United States of America. Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson.