Actor Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson says he hasn’t ruled out running for president of the United States when his days in the entertainment business are over. [The   heavyweight world wrestling   Hollywood   told British GQ that he’s “not being coy” when he says that he hasn’t “ruled politics out. ”  “I can’t deny that the thought of being governor, the thought of being president, is alluring,” the    Central Intelligence star told the magazine. He said running for office “would be an opportunity to make a real impact on people’s lives on a global scale. ” “But there are a lot of other things I want to do first,” Johnson was quick to add. Johnson spent nearly 20 years   his way to superstar status with the World Wrestling Federation. His first real feature film role came in 2001’s The Mummy Returns, in which he played the villainous Scorpion King. Since then, the    phenom has racked up more than 30 acting credits in some of Hollywood’s biggest blockbusters. After landing starring roles in the hit Fast and Furious franchise, the G. I. Joe films and the upcoming Baywatch and Jumanji remakes, Johnson is now one of Hollywood’s   movie stars. In his interview with GQ, Johnson said the role he played as “The Rock” in the WWF was his favorite one to date, but after a while he felt it was time to try other things. “”The Rock was  —   still is in fact    the best role I will ever get to play. I was being me, but me turned all the way up to ten,” he said. “I could say anything, do anything and I would wink and everyone was in on the joke. They got it, I was connecting, it was perfect. But I couldn’t help feeling like I had achieved everything I had wanted to in wrestling. By the end of 1998 I was the youngest world champion and making a lot of money, but I wanted to know what was next. ” Of course, Johnson has flirted with the idea of running for political office before. “One day, and that day will come, I can impact the world through politics,” he told Moviefone in a 2012 interview, In March, he tweeted a link to an article about his political popularity. “Maybe one day,” he tweeted. “Surely the White House has a spot for my pick up truck. ” Cool piece on why I should run for President. Maybe one day. Surely the White House has a spot for my pick up truck. .https:  .   —   Dwayne Johnson (@TheRock) March 25, 2016,  Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson