Hillary Clinton’s political allies bribed a top FBI official to bury the investigation of her illegal handling of government information, according to a tweet from Jill Stein’s Green Party. [The tweet reads:  How much does it cost for the FBI to drop an investigation? If you’re a Clinton, $467, 500, apparently. https:  .   —   Green Party US (@GreenPartyUS) October 24, 2016,  In recent days, Stein has hammered Hillary Clinton on her corruption —   even employing an adjective Clinton previously used to describe Trump supporters —  by denouncing Clinton as “deplorable” for helping “her cronies” profit “off Haiti’s suffering”: RT if you agree it’s deplorable HRC claims Clinton Foundation helped Haiti after her cronies profited off Haiti’s suffering. #InvestYourVote,  —   Dr. Jill Stein (@DrJillStein) October 25, 2016,  HRC gave special attention to ”friends of Bill” who wanted Haiti contracts. Others were sent to a generic website. https:  .   —   Dr. Jill Stein (@DrJillStein) October 25, 2016,  Stein is a Harvard Medical School graduate, a mother to two sons, and a practicing physician, who became an   activist and organizer in the late 1990s. As the Green Party’s 2012 presidential candidate, Stein holds the record for the most votes ever received by a female candidate for president in a general election. While third party Libertarian nominee Gary Johnson has received quite a bit of media attention throughout this election, Stein says she has experienced a virtual media blackout. She also says that the reason for the media blackout is that, unlike Johnson, she is an effective messenger against Washington’s   “ . ” She has previously argued that the reason “corporate media prop up Hillary and smear her opponents” is “because they’re huge donors to [Clinton’s] foundation. ” Stein, who has urged her supporters to help her “#BreakTheBlackout from corporate media,” has put members of corporate media, who have failed to cover her own “  campaign,” on notice, declaring, “Your silence to our voices speaks volumes. ”