The Justice Department announced on Thursday that it had reached an agreement with a Mississippi county that, for the first time, requires a local government to provide an array of options intended to reduce mass incarceration. It includes programs offering alternatives to jail,   services for inmates leaving incarceration and the prohibition of some jail sentences for failure to pay   fines and fees. The settlement agreement with Hinds County, home to Jackson, Mississippi’s largest city and the state capital, comes after the Justice Department issued a letter of findings last year, having concluded that the county’s jails regularly violated the constitutional rights of inmates by keeping prisoners past their release dates, and that it failed to protect prisoners from violence inflicted by guards and other inmates. Vanita Gupta, principal deputy assistant attorney general and chief of the Justice Department’s Civil Rights Division, said the agreement incorporated measures, discussed by the Obama administration and by police and prison officials in the past three years, seeking to moderate the growth of a criminal justice system in which 2. 2 million people are in prisons and jails, and 4. 7 million are on probation or parole. The measures include a shift away from the use of solitary confinement, strategies seeking to reduce recidivism, and an effort to keep juveniles and the mentally ill out of jail through the use of early intervention programs. Ms. Gupta said that the kinds of problems uncovered by the Justice Department in Hinds County, including pervasive violence by guards and inmates alike, and an overreliance on solitary confinement, were similar to those in jails and prisons across the nation. “This is the first time we’ve been able to incorporate a spectrum of reform,” Ms. Gupta said. “Every jail is going to have its own specific issues, but the creativity and innovation in this is something that could be promoted in other jurisdictions. ” Carmen Y. Davis, the administrator of Hinds County, did not immediately return a phone call or email Thursday. The county sheriff, Victor Mason, did not immediately return a telephone call. The agreement was reached as police chiefs, corrections officials, judges and prosecutors joined calls for substantial reductions in prison and jail populations, to match reductions in crime rates. It also comes as Congress debates a  bill to overhaul the criminal justice system that would alter mandatory minimum sentencing laws, which have played a significant role in increasing the length of time served, leading to crowding. The Justice Department found last year that Hinds County officials had regularly violated the rights of inmates at the Hinds County Adult Detention Center and the Jackson City Detention Center. Among the findings in the Justice Department’s May 2015 report was that Hinds County routinely held inmates beyond their   release dates. For example, the report found that a    had served 173 days without an indictment  —   including 70 days beyond his mandatory release date. The county’s jails were also the scene of three major riots, which led to the death of an inmate, the Justice Department found. Investigators also uncovered rampant and unnecessary violence by guards, the lack of basic equipment such as functioning radios, cases of the jail losing track of inmates, staff shortages, and inadequate safeguards and care for juvenile and mentally ill prisoners. Hinds County officials eventually agreed to cooperate with the Justice Department, which allowed the county to avoid the imposition of a   federal consent decree. The settlement agreement is subject to the approval of a federal court judge, who will appoint a monitor to ensure that the changes are carried out. “For too long, the conditions in the jail have posed a serious challenge to law enforcement and the safety of our community,” George K. Davis, United States attorney for the southern district of Mississippi, said in a statement. “I appreciate the commitment made by Hinds County officials to turn the page and begin making necessary reforms. ” The settlement agreement includes a provision that prohibits the county from jailing people for failing to pay court fines and fees unless it first determines that the individual can afford to pay. The fees, which could include everything from traffic citations to the cost of a prisoner’s incarceration, have been found to fall disproportionately on minorities. The prevalence of such fines and fees  —   and subsequent jail stints for lack of payment  —   has been the source of frustration among the unemployed and the working poor, including in Ferguson, Mo. where protests broke out after the death of Michael Brown in a police shooting in 2014. But the centerpiece of the deal is a mandate to form a criminal justice coordinating committee, made up of local officials including judges, the county sheriff and members of the Board of Supervisors, as well as mental health professionals and other local residents. The committee will be guided in part by a consultant, who will be hired by the county. The Justice Department said the committee would be tasked with coming up with alternatives to incarceration  —   including developing strategies and changing policies to decrease the number of arrests in the county through diversion programs  —   many of which will focus on the mentally ill, who make up a significant share of inmates in Hinds County jails. “The coordinating committee will prioritize enhancing coordination with local behavioral health systems, with the goal of connecting individuals experiencing mental health crisis, including juveniles, with available services to avoid unnecessary arrest, detention, and incarceration,” the settlement agreement between the Justice Department and the county said. The committee will also be responsible for easing the transition to freedom after inmates are released from jail, which could include providing help with housing and job training or ensuring that those with mental illnesses receive adequate care. Criminologists have said that gaps in such services can lead to high recidivism rates because former inmates often do not the skills to find decent work and are sometimes barred from certain types of housing, as well as from loans for education and job training. The county will be required to pay for the changes, but the Justice Department said it intended to work with county officials on funding. “We are going to be helping them support the innovations,” Ms. Gupta said.