Comedian Nick Offerman heaped praise on Hillary Clinton in an interview this week, calling the Democratic candidate the “sane” and “moral choice” for president and said that the “election would be over already” if Clinton “were not a woman. ”[“I think unfortunately, for the democratic process, there’s no logical or sane or moral choice to be made other than voting for Hillary Clinton,” the former Parks and Recreation star told Esquire in an interview. “But I also think that if she were not a woman, we would not be in this boat. I think the election would be over already. ”  The    actor said that he’s “incredibly excited” for the possibility of America’s first female president, but believes Americans distrust Clinton because they “are very reluctant to see the patriarchy topple. ” “I am incredibly excited that the glass ceiling will be shattered,” he said. “I mean, we’ve had our first black president and we’ll probably have our first woman president. And of course we’re going to go kicking and screaming as a nation into that, we would have it no other way. At the end of the day, we’re all a bunch of big babies. But what an exciting accomplishment. ” Last May, while hosting the 20th annual Webby Awards, Offerman cracked jokes about Clinton and lamented the fact that “grandma” won’t be as   as President Obama. Obama will “be replaced by a grandpa who is a racist or a grandma who doesn’t understand how ‘reply all’ works,” he joked. Offerman told the magazine that “it’s usually easy for me to vote because one party usually offends me by being indecent. And that usually has to do with taking away the rights of some group. ” Sharing his thoughts to Esquire about Donald Trump, Offerman says he understands “the dissatisfaction that has led to his selection,” but contends that if the America people were attempting to “make a statement with your dissatisfaction, you really should’ve found a better representative of your desires. ” Read Offerman’s full interview with Esquire here.   Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter @jeromeehudson