Ten  —   mostly Muslim men  —   who committed a string of sexual offences against a vulnerable teenage girl in Rochdale have been jailed for up to 25 years each. [The girl, who has learning disabilities, contacted the police in 2012 about the assaults, which took place while she was aged between 14 and 18.  She claimed that “hundreds” of men would call her, asking her to go out and have sex with them, between 2005 and 2010. The offences also involved other   victims. The BBC reports that nine defendants, all but one of whom are of Pakistani and Bangladeshi heritage, were sentenced at Manchester Minshull Street Crown Court today, while another man was sentenced last year. Prosecutors said the white girl was an “extremely vulnerable young woman” who had “a very difficult home life”. The girl gave evidence in two separate trials that lasted a total of 15 weeks, while seven other complainants, aged 13 to 22 at the time of the attacks, also came forward to testify. Afraz Ahmed, 30, was jailed for 25 years for various offences including rape and sexual activity with a child. Choudry Ikhalaq Hussein, 38, was jailed for 19 years in absentia for sexual activity with a child and conspiracy to rape. He is currently believed to be on the run in Pakistan. Rehan Ali, 27, was jailed for seven years for rape and sexual activity with a child. Kutab Miah, 35, was jailed for nine years for the same offences. Abid Khan, 39, was sentenced to     years for sexual activity with a child. Mohammed Zahid, 55, was jailed for five years for sexual activity with a child. Mohammed Dauood, 38, was sentenced to 16 years for rape, sexual assault and sexual activity with a child. A    man who cannot be named for legal reasons was sentenced to 23 years in prison after he was convicted of rape and attempting to abduct a child in relation to three victims. David Law, 46, was jailed for 11 years for conspiracy to rape. Mahfuz Rahman, 29, had pleaded guilty to three counts of sexual activity with a child at an earlier hearing. He was sentenced to     years last September. Judge John Potter said: “Each of the victims of this offending gave evidence at one trial or the other. “They were subjected to   which suggested they were not telling the truth. Each dealt with this ordeal impressively. “I have little doubt that each of the victims have been affected by your abuse of them to some degree, some far more than others. ” Richard Scorer of Slater and Gordon, who represented one of the victims, said: “In 20 years of acting for victims in cases of this nature, these are some of the most appalling, sadistic and vile crimes that I have ever encountered. “These men systematically groomed, abused and raped vulnerable teenage girls to satiate their sexual desires. “We welcome the sentences that have been imposed. They reflect the horrific nature of their crimes and show that men who perpetrate these appalling offences will be hunted down, prosecuted and jailed. “I believe there are many more victims of these sorts of crimes and I hope they will come forward in the knowledge that men who commit these crimes will be brought to book. ”