Police Chief Craig Kingsbury of Twin Falls, Idaho, confirmed Monday that three Sudanese and Iraqi boys allegedly sexually assaulted a    girl, and that two of them have been sent to a detention center after allegedly brutalizing the American child. [The suspects  —   two of whom are 10 and 14 years old  —   have been in Twin Falls for less than two years, he said, according to an Idaho TV station,   ABC 6. The news site used the word “rape” while the police chief said “sexual assault. ”  The news site also rushed to say no Syrian refugees were involved in the case without explaining why or how Iraqis and Sudanese came to live in the Idaho city, or why it’s in the interests of Americans to invite foreigners’ alien culture into their communities. Because both the alleged predators and the victim are minors, court records have been sealed. Public uproar and highly contentious city council meetings appeared to have forced authorities to address the child’s assault  —   which never would have occurred if the   migrants weren’t resettled in their community in the first place: Two boys from Middle Eastern immigrant families are in custody in relation to a sexual assault on a    girl that, authorities say, happened at the Fawnbrook Apartments on June 2. Several people came to the City Council a week ago calling on city officials to release more information. Police and Loebs’ office were saying little last week, but the story blew up over the weekend after the boys were taken into custody. County prosecutor Grant Loebs emphasized that no “gang rape” took place, nor did the alleged attackers pull a knife on the little girl. But a retired nurse, Jolene Payne, witnessed the attack, and she described what the immigrant suspects did to their victim to World Net Daily: This happened three weeks ago around 3:30. I was sitting on my porch patio and I looked over and saw this boy taking pictures with a camera. He was from Africa or somewhere overseas, standing outside the laundry room taking pictures of kids in the laundry room  …     I found them in there. I knew there was something going on because the boy [with the phone camera] was acting funny. He was taking pictures but he was telling the two younger boys what to do  …     The door was cracked enough for him to see the pictures he was taking. I opened that door and I almost fainted when I saw what was going on and here I’m a nurse. What a pitiful thing for a poor little girl to go through. Both the “little tiny white girl” and the two younger suspects were naked, Payne continued: The police came and then the next day detectives came and talked to me alone  …     All I know is what I told them. The worst thing was the way they peed all over her clothes and on her too, and I thought that was one of the meanest things I’ve ever saw done. And we know those kids must know a lot more than the kids in America of that age. I’ve never seen any of them do anything like that to little girls, and we have a lot of children around here. The little girl had no clothes on. The boys took them off. The littlest boy said: ‘We didn’t do it. He told us to,’ pointing to the older boy. They’re just kids that have a mother and they moved here from overseas. The women don’t even talk any English, some of them do, but others don’t. They wear long dresses and long black things on their heads. I saw two boys and one little girl scared to death  …     I told them boys you better get your clothes on. She was scared to death, crying ‘Grandma Jo, Grandma Jo, help me.’ I’m not her grandmother but that’s what all the kids around here call me. “They stripped her naked and urinated in her mouth,” community resident David Odell told Fox News.