”There’s no evidence he’s a white supremacist” @andersoncooper challenges @SenWarren’s charge against @StephenBannon https:  .  Last week on CNN’s “Anderson Cooper 360,” Sen. Elizabeth Warren ( ) took a shot at   Donald Trump by accusing him of doubling down on “racism and bigotry” with the selection of former Breitbart News executive chairman Stephen K. Bannon as his chief strategist.  However, host Anderson Cooper pushed back against Warren’s claim by stating there was “no evidence” Bannon was a white supremacist. Partial transcript as follows: COOPER: Do you approve of any of the  ’s cabinet picks today? WARREN: Well, you know, I don’t know. Today he just talked about having the U. S. attorney, Preet Bharara, down, and I think Preet is a pretty terrific guy. So, maybe it will turn out that he’ll have one of these appointments. I don’t know at this point. COOPER: But no one he’s selected so far? WARREN: Well, look, so far, what we have seen is that Donald Trump has doubled down on racism and bigotry. He’s got as his strategic adviser, a person who is a white supremacist and he’s now doubling down  —   COOPER: Wait a minute. There’s no evidence he’s a white supremacist. He obviously  —   you know, there’s people who are white supremacists who support Donald Trump and who support like Breitbart or Steve Bannon. But  —   WARREN: Come on. COOPER: Well, I mean  —   WARREN: Are we really  —   I mean, Steve Bannon has certainly associated himself with white supremacists. Will you go that far? COOPER: I mean, I don’t know that you can say, though, he’s a white supremacist. WARREN: Well, he has associated himself with white supremacists, is that close enough? I mean, this is a guy whose appointment is applauded by the KKK. I mean, what Donald Trump is doing is he’s putting, so far, he has said that he’s going to go forward on bigotry and that he’s going to go forward on wall street insiders. And I think this is a real problem for the American people. I don’t think this is where the American people want to go. You know  —   Follow Breitbart. tv on Twitter @BreitbartVideo