Stephen Miller, a senior policy adviser for Donald Trump, tells Breitbart News Daily host Stephen K. Bannon: “The important thing is that Donald Trump has changed the political debate in this country and won on the issues that are fueling his candidacy, that are going to translate, of course, into huge wins in New York, Pennsylvania and New Jersey and all across the rest of the map. ”[Added Miller, “Those issues, of course, are trade and immigration, as well as the underlying fact that voters feel betrayed by their party. ”  Miller denied that there was any disconnect between Wisconsin exit polls showing voters agree with Trump on issues, however many voted for Ted Cruz. “There isn’t any disconnect at all. Republican voters in every single state in the country are going to agree on those issues. The Republican Party donor class has lost on the issues. And so we’re going to win those issues in every single state that there is. Period. ” Miller basically defended the Wisconsin loss by saying the entire GOP establishment, including Gov. Scott Walker, threw its weight behind Cruz and no one can expect to win every state. “But the fact is, if you’re winning on the issues, you’re going to win the nomination and that’s the bottom line,” said Miller. “The reality is, if you’re winning on the substance of the issues, which we have been, then you’re going to continue to win most of the states and most of the delegates and you’re going to get to 1, 237 and that’s what’s been happening. ” Asked if the Trump campaign might come up short on getting to the 1, 237 number, Miller denied it. “I’ve not seen any math along those lines. I mean our internal math has us getting to 1, 237, as does a lot of the other analysis that I’ve seen out there. ” Miller also dismissed Ohio Gov. John kasich as a threat. “I think Kasich’s campaign is becoming more and more irrelevant by the day. ” Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00AM to 9:00AM EST. You can listen to the full interview with Stephen Miller below: 