Former Navy SEAL and former Blackwater CEO Erik Prince addressed the controversy surrounding President Obama’s secret $400 million payment to Iran on Monday’s edition of Breitbart News Daily with SiriusXM host Stephen K. Bannon. [“For the administration to deny that it was a ransom payment is a complete lie,” said Prince, adding:  When you have the aircraft holding on the deck in Iran  —   pilots there, crew there, flight plan filed, everything waiting until the fee arrives  —   and of course, the administration doesn’t do it in dollars because that would be another violation of federal law, so they did it in euros and Swiss francs, once again with America paying off Iran. “The thousands of U. S. troops that have been killed or damaged by roadside bombs, especially the explosive foreign penetrators in Iraq, that was directly the responsibility of Iran, as the Marine barracks bombing was in 1983,” said Prince. “They’ve done ten times or 100 times as bad in Iraq to our own troops. Once again, the administration literally gets away with breaking the law, paying a terrorist nation the largest ransom payment I’ve ever heard of. ” Bannon asked if Hillary Clinton should be considered complicit in the execution of Iranian nuclear physicist Shahram Amiri, on charges of spying for the United States, who was discussed in some of the emails on Clinton’s unsecured private server. “The physicist that came out, he defected, he was a treasure trove of information, but the CIA and the Clinton State Department botched it while he was in the States, left him pretty much unsupported,” Prince replied, calling it a major mistake to leave Amiri’s family in Iran. “The second time he calls home, the Iranian intelligence service answers the phone. Undoubtedly, they leveraged him. When the guy talks about psychological trauma here in the United States, I’m sure it’s because the Iranians were telling him all the things they were going to do to his family if he didn’t come home,” said Prince. “Once again, the administration screwed it up. He goes home of course, he’s arrested. And then Hillary’s emails, which were in the open, certainly readable by foreign powers, were talking about Hillary’s   friend, who was a defection, and not an abduction, as the guy was claiming,” he added. Prince said that if the American people want to break through what Bannon described as “the media Praetorian Guard” around Clinton and Obama, to get some real coverage of the Amiri story, they should understand that “Hillary’s emails, playing fast and loose with national security matters, very likely caused this guy to die. ” “He’d been sentenced to prison, but after the release of these emails, he was taken out and executed,” said Prince. He continued: When he went back to Iran, there was no talk of him being executed. Once her emails were released, he was executed. What does it mean? It means, once again, America does not take care of the people that help America. This guy was a treasure trove of information on the Iranian nuclear program. He’s dead. We leave the Pakistani doctor who helped us find bin Laden, still in Pakistani prison. “This administration, particularly Hillary Clinton, plays fast and loose with classified information, and doesn’t really care about the people who help America, and they suffer, and our national security will suffer for it yet again in the long term,” Prince concluded. Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00 a. m. to 9:00 a. m. Eastern. LISTEN: 