A heavily tattooed Texas man sits in the Bexar County jail in San Antonio after being charged with indecency with a child. The man who appears to have gang related tattoos reportedly grabbed the buttocks of a young girl and then reportedly masturbated in front of the girl while he mother sat nearby. [Ray A. Ortega, 27,  checked into the Bibliotech Library in San Antonio on Tuesday of this week and began to use a computer terminal where he was assigned by library staff. A little while later, Fox29 in San Antonio reported, a woman and her child were assigned to an adjacent computer terminal.  While the mother was focused on the computer, Ortega allegedly grabbed the young girl’s buttocks, according to the arrest affidavit. The child was startled and moved away but her mother did not appear to notice. Fox29 reported that Ortega began to “touch himself” a short time later and repeated the behavior several times. He reportedly attempted to make eye contact with the little girl each time he touched himself. His exposure was reportedly in the view of several children. He allegedly tried to conceal his actions by hiding his “private parts” under the counter. The offensive actions were reported to be captured on the library’s video surveillance system. Breitbart Texas spoke with officials of the Bexar County jail on Sunday morning. Officials reported that Ortega has a valid Texas Driver License. While not conclusive, this indicates it is likely the man is an American citizen. The jail officials had no information confirming that or indicating any other status. The jail official also confirmed that Ortega has a criminal record that is “a mile long. ” A search of court records by Breitbart Texas revealed at least two felony convictions including one for burglary of a habitation with intent to commit assault. Jail officials said the man also had a previous parole violation. The jail officials confirmed that Ortega remains in custody under a $75, 000 bond. Library officials told Fox29 that Ortega is a regular patron at the library. Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas and is a member of the original Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX.  