Speaking on ABC’s The View Wednesday, Whoopi Goldberg voiced her support of divorce as a good and important option for many Christians, since it is found “nowhere in the Bible. ”[Apparently, Goldberg never read as far as Matthew, Mark or Luke’s gospel accounts, which all report that Jesus taught that “whoever divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery against her. ”  Goldberg was adamant that God had no opinion whatsoever on divorce, saying that He had handed down ten, and not twelve, Commandments, and none of them outlawed divorce. “I live the Ten Commandments,” Goldberg said. “Those are the words of God and, to me, that  —   that doesn’t cover divorce. ” All of the   except one, in fact, took Goldberg’s side, leaving one lone voice —  that of   Sunny Hostin —  to defend the permanence of marriage, for which she was called “crazy. ” “When you get married, you go into it knowing that divorce  —   or you should go into it, in my opinion, knowing that divorce is not an option,” Hostin said. Despite the arguments thrown at her, Hostin stuck to her guns, insisting that Christians shouldn’t enter marriage thinking there is an escape hatch. “I don’t want to get preachy but God is a loving God, a forgiving God,” she said, “but when you talk about marriage, the Church believes that God is the author of marriage and establishes it as a permanent union forming an unbreakable bond. ” Commenting on Khloe Kardashian’s split with husband Lamar Odom, Goldberg said that despite her theoretical Christian opposition to divorce, Kardashian “had to do it for her own mental and emotional   and thinks God’s okay with that. ” “I mean, why wouldn’t God be okay with that?” Goldberg asked. “It’s nowhere in the Bible. ” Joy Behar tried to force Hostin into admitting that there are many cases where divorce is simply necessary. “You’re a young woman and you realize you made a huge mistake. So you’re going to spend the next 50 years with the same dog?” she asked. “Yes,” Hostin responded. “Because you made  —   you made the commitment. ” Exasperated, Behar said, “I don’t mean to be judgmental but that’s crazy. ” Follow Thomas D. Williams on Twitter   Follow @   <! [CDATA[! function( d,s, id){var js, fjs=d. getElementsByTagName( s)[0],p= ^