The German Federal Police have released new statistics that show that the massive increase in crime in Germany was a result of Merkel’s open door policy during the migrant crisis. [The report, whose release was delayed from July, and again in September, was finally published in November. It records a total of 436, 387 crimes over the past year  —   a dramatic 31. 6 per cent increase on the year before, reports Die Welt.  The German Federal Police are tasked primarily with the protection of railway stations, airports, and borders. Most of the recorded thefts occurred at either railway stations or on trains with 44, 800 cases reported  —   up 25 per cent from the year before. In total, thefts have risen 11. 9 per cent to 57, 146 cases. The report blames much of the crime on organised migrant gangs, many of them originating from the Balkans. The largest increase in crime by far, however, involves migrants and the violation of asylum laws including illegal immigration and people smuggling, with an increase of 151. 6 per cent totally 171, 477 violations over the past year. Police President Dieter Romann has been a vocal critic of the border and migrant policies of German Chancellor Angela Merkel. Mr. Romann highlighted the fact that 865, 374 migrants illegally entered Germany’s borders in the past year, the majority coming after Ms. Merkel invited the migrants at the beginning of September 2015. Many of those who came illegally did so via people smugglers. The report states the majority of smugglers to be Syrian with 390 of them arrested in the past year. This was followed by Romanians, at 370, and Hungarians, at 362. Minister of the Interior Thomas de Maizière has said the government will use covert methods to crack down on the huge smuggling trade, which some have said are helping to finance Islamic State. Using statistics published by the German Interior Ministry earlier this year, Breitbart London exposed how migrants were committing a disproportionate number of crimes compared to native Germans. Germany’s media meanwhile has attempted to pin a rise in crimes on   extremists. But statistics show that it is   violence and extremism that is on the rise in Germany, and that many fires in asylum homes often turn out to have been set by migrants themselves.