Ed Klein, author of “UNLIKEABLE: The Problem With Hillary,” joined Breitbart News Daily on SiriusXM with host Alex Marlow to shed more light on Democrat frontrunner Hillary Clinton’s discrediting of female victims of her husband as well as her health problems. [“Hillary is always in trouble  …    she’s rolled out Bill Clinton, which she had no intention of doing,” Klein said to Marlow, explaining that Clinton was planning to save him for the general election, but had to bring him out now because the race in New Hampshire and Iowa is so tight. “That in turn, rolled out all our memories and all the stories about abuse of women that goes all the way back to not just the White House, but to Arkansas in the 1970s. ”  Speaking of Se. Bernie Sanders, Klein said: “Bernie is Jewish. He’s from Brooklyn originally. ” Klein cited Sanders’ socialist beliefs and says that any other year he would have absolutely no possibility or chance of being a serious presidential candidate, especially against the Clinton machine, but in an election about insurgency, people want something else. “This is all news to them,” Klein said about young voters who are just now hearing about Bill Clinton’s abuse of women. Klein said that in his 1996 book “The Truth About Hillary” he details how Hillary Clinton was “intrinsically part of the effort to discredit these women and threaten these women. ” Klein said he thinks the young voters are “going to be shocked by a lot of this stuff,” referencing Bill’s “bimbo eruptions. ” Marlow commented that today’s culture stresses that society shouldn’t blame the victim, but that’s not what Hillary did in the 1990s. “Hillary was stand by your man, don’t take the victim seriously,” Marlow added. “It goes all the way back to from her original arrival in Little Rock, Arkansas,” Klein responded to Marlow. “When she went there to marry Bill Clinton, she was instantly made aware of the fact that he was abusing women left right and center. ” Klein said Clinton called her father and brother to come down from Chicago and keep and eye on her husband. They told her in 1975 what he was doing with women, and then Clinton hired private investigators on these women  —   not on her husband  —   “to discredit them  …    and she did. ” He said Hillary Clinton chaired all the “let’s get Monica effort in the White House” meetings in order to discredit Monica Lewinsky, an intern who had sexual relations with then President Bill Clinton. Klein then moved to the topic of Hillary Clinton’s health issues. “I’ve read the Breitbart report entirely and you guys did a fantastic job,” he said. “I want to congratulate Breitbart for that. ” Klein was referencing a Breitbart News report from Thursday that reveals security officials and medical professionals have expressed concern over the former Secretary of State’s potential   health problems stemming from a 2012 concussion and blood clot. Klein said this is a very key issue and that mainstream media operations are being fed stories that Hillary Clinton is a “happy warrior” and energized. “My sources, like your sources, tell a completely different story,” he adds. Klein said he has been told that Clinton has “ her own personal physician all the time” travels with her because the Clintons are concerned she will faint again or “lose it in front of a large audience  …     [have] insomnia  …    [or] may have another blood clot. ” “We need more information about Hillary Clinton’s health,” Klein charges. “I would suggest that she is nowhere near as healthy as she claims to be or as any candidate should be running for president. ” He said the Clinton’s “have to, first of all, answer the question of whether she is physically capable of holding down the job as President of the United States. ” Klein adds, they also need to answer what she really has accomplished. “History is important and we have a history of the Clintons back in the 1990s in which the White House was scandal central. It will happen again if the Clintons are back in the White House,” Klein warns, adding that he’s heard even President Barack Obama has said that to friends. Hear the interview: 