On Friday, HBO’s “Real Time” host Bill Maher mocked claims that the meeting between Attorney General Loretta Lynch and former President Bill Clinton only discussed weather and grandkids and said, “to spend 30 minutes, that’s a long time to be talking about your grandchildren. ”  Maher said Hillary “had some trouble at the airport with her baggage, and when I say her baggage, I mean her husband. ” He continued, “Attorney General Loretta Lynch, who was at the airport in Phoenix, who was part of a national tour on  —   to promote community policing, and Bill Clinton was at the airport because that’s near where all the strip clubs are. And Clinton saw the attorney general’s plane across the tarmac, so he boarded her plane to talk, as one does. We all jump off our planes onto the tarmac to say hello to friends on other planes, right? I mean, so, now it’s a big scandal, because Attorney General Lynch, of course, is the person deciding whether to indict Hillary Clinton for the ongoing email investigation. So of all the planes to pop onto, this was the wrong one for Bill Clinton. ” Maher further stated, “Now, Bill says that the conversation with Attorney General Lynch was very innocent. It was just about grandkids, and the weather, and how neither will exist if Trump is elected. But hey, very innocent. No, Attorney General Lynch, you do what you want. I’m just hear to talk about the grandkids, who will all be dead if Hillary doesn’t win, but do whatever you want. And today, Attorney General Lynch said she regrets very much the private encounter with Bill Clinton. And Monica Lewinsky said, been there, girlfriend, at least you didn’t ruin a dress. ” Later in the show, when the meeting came up, and MSNBC Chief Legal Correspondent Ari Melber said there was no “real scandal,” Maher responded, “Really?” And “[T]hat sounds like real MSNBC boilerplate, Ari. ” Maher further pushed back against an attempt by Representative Barbara Lee ( ) to bring up the Benghazi Select Committee, stating that this was an entirely separate matter. Maher also said, in response to Melber arguing that Clinton put Lynch in “a tight spot” by wanting to come on her plane, “OK. How about saying, I’m the attorney general. I’m looking into your wife. I’m about to indict her or not. Get off my plane.   …     I mean, and to spend 30 minutes, that’s a long time to be talking about your grandchildren. And now, by the way, he screwed Hillary because  —   he probably never did that, because now, when it comes to her desk, now she’s like under a microscope like she never would have been before. ” Follow Ian Hanchett on Twitter @IanHanchett