German police union chief Rainer Wendt has blamed the mass migration policies of German Chancellor Angela Merkel for the death of Maria Landenburger who was killed by an Afghani migrant. [Mr. Wendt said, “This and many other victims would not exist if our country would have been prepared for the dangers that are always associated with massive immigration,” Die Welt reports.  Wendt also spoke of   supporters criticising their attitudes toward mass migration saying “while relatives mourn and victims experience unspeakable suffering, the representatives of the ‘welcome culture’ are silent” adding that they had “not a word of compassion, nowhere there is   only arrogant insistence on one’s own noble disposition”. He then said that the harsh realities of the migrant policy of Angela Merkel was being “passed over to the victims and to a police and judiciary, which had been spared for years. And so the dangers for our country are constantly growing” he noted. Several other politicians and public figures have weighed in after the announcement over the weekend that the perpetrator of the rape and murder was an underage Afghan migrant who had come during the migrant crisis.  Former Socialist Party mayor of   Heinz Buschkowsky said: “The perpetrator came from a brutal, patriarchal society and behaved towards women as if they were always available. It will take generations to change this attitude so people will learn our central European world of values. ” However, many other politicians decided to use the opportunity to claim that not all migrants should be held under suspicion despite the huge wave of crime associated with the migrant crisis over the past year. Socialist Party leader Sigmar Gabriel said: “We must not allow this abominable act to be abused for agitation and conspiracy propaganda. It is clear to all: Refugees can commit just as terrible crimes as people born in Germany. ” The murder of Maria echoes that of Alexandra Mezher in Sweden earlier this year. Both Alexandra and Maria worked in asylum homes and while both wanted to help migrants they ended up the victims of   violence. Police in Freiburg continue to investigate the case and some question whether or not the Afghan migrant suspected of the crime was also involved in a similar case in  the nearby town of Endingen in which a female jogger, Carolin G. was also murdered.  