Fox mogul Rupert Murdoch is partnered in multiple media ventures with Saudi Arabian Prince Alwaweed Bin Talal, including an Arabic religious TV network with a direct tie to Hillary Clinton’s top aide Huma Abedin. [Both Prince Alwaweed Bin Talal and Murdoch’s Fox News network have become vocal critics of GOP Presidential frontrunner Donald Trump. On December 11, 2015 Bin Tala took to Twitter to savage Trump:  . @realDonaldTrumpYou are a disgrace not only to the GOP but to all America. Withdraw from the U. S presidential race as you will never win.  —   الوليد بن طلال (@Alwaleed_Talal) December 11, 2015,  The   TV network is a venture created by Alwaleed in association with Rupert Murdoch. As The Guardian reported in 2010: A company headed by the Saudi billionaire Prince Alwaleed bin Talal says it plans to launch a new Arabic television news channel in partnership with Rupert Murdoch’s Fox network. The prince said the Kingdom Holding company’s   channel “will be an addition and alternative” for Arab viewers. It will compete with   and  .   TV’s stated goal is to “present true Islam” but the network’s programming has been often been radical. As The Sun reported in 2006: [M]uch of the content on his TV channel is overtly  . On March 31, the   of   Sheik Tareq   gave a speech at Dialogue between Europe and Muslims, a convention in Copenhagen that the channel was covering. “The West have done strategic mistakes   …     they underestimate the power of Islam,” he said. Sheik Suweidan praised the election of Hamas and Egypt’s Muslim Brotherhood, warning: “The West have no chance but to deal with Islam, and we are extending our hands in peace and dialogue  —   you have slapped it. We do not accept insults. ” According to the official website of Prince Alaweed, one of the members of the Supreme Advisory board for his   TV network is “Dr. Abdullah Naseef, President of World Muslim Congress and President of Forum For Social Studies (FFSS). ” As Breitbart News has extensively documented,   TV  board member Dr. Naseef is the longtime benefactor of top Hillary Clinton aide Huma Abedin’s family business, the Journal of Muslim Minority Affairs. As Vanity Fair reported: When (Huma) Abedin was two years old, the family moved to Jidda, Saudi Arabia, where, with the backing of Abdullah Omar Nasseef, then the president of King Abdulaziz University, her father founded the Institute of Muslim Minority Affairs, a think tank, and became the first editor of its Journal of Muslim Minority Affairs, which stated its mission as “shedding light” on minority Muslim communities around the world in the hope of “securing the legitimate rights of these communities. ”   …     It turns out the Journal of Muslim Minority Affairs is an Abedin family business. Huma was an assistant editor there between 1996 and 2008. Her brother, Hassan, 45, is a   editor at the Journal and was a fellow at the Oxford Center for Islamic Studies, where Nasseef is chairman of the board of trustees. Huma’s sister, Heba, 26, is an assistant editor at the Journal.   …     In his early years as the patron of the Abedins’ journal, Nasseef was the   of the Muslim World League, which Andrew McCarthy () claims “has long been the Muslim Brotherhood’s principal vehicle for the international propagation of Islamic supremacist ideology. ” The Muslim World League was the mother organization of two groups the U. S. government thinks was involved in funneling money to terrorists —  the Rabita Trust and the International Islamic Relief Organization (IIRO). Both groups are listed on the Treasury department’s website of terrorist organizations. Naseef’s Rabita Trust   Wa’el Hamza Julaidan was one of the founders of Al Qaeda. These connections have been hidden by the mainstream media. Breitbart News demonstrated attempted to muddy the connection between Saudi Arabian raised Huma Abedin and Nassef when questions about Abedin were raised by a group of Congress members in 2012. It’s been widely reported that Bin Talal is a large investor in Murdoch’s Fox News, but much less attention has been paid to  . In early 2015, Bin Talal’s Kingdom Holding Company reduced his stake in Murdoch’s News Corp to 1 percent but maintains a 6. 6 percent interest in 21st Century Fox, which controls Fox News. As CNN Money reported: News Corp. is Murdoch’s publishing operation, made up of the New York Post and the Wall Street Journal as well as the book publisher HarperCollins. The more valuable 21st Century Fox is home to a host of television and film properties such as Fox Searchlight, the Fox broadcasting network and Fox News.   …     “We have a strategic alliance with Rupert Murdoch for sure and I have been with him for the last 15 or 20 years,” Alwaleed said. “My backing of Rupert Murdoch is definitely unwavering. ” The connection between Alwaleed, Murdoch, Abedin, Hillary Clinton and Saudi Arabia are troubling given a number of recent events. Prince Alwaleed is boasting about his role in impacting U. S. elections. As Breitbart News Network’s Aaron Klein reported, the Saudi Arabian news site Sabq claims that “Alwaweed Bin Talal caused a decline in Trump’s popularity. ”  CNN reported in 2008 that “donations to the William J. Clinton Foundation include amounts of $10 million to $25 million from the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. ” Huma Abedin was hired as a consultant to the William J. Clinton Foundation after Clinton left her role as Secretary of State. Abedin is also at the center of Hillary Clinton’s private email server scandal. Huma Abedin’s mother currently lives in Saudi Arabia and runs the Journal for Muslim Minority Affairs and is also a dean at a woman’s college there.