Police in Auburn, Massachusetts, are searching for a suspect after a local police officer was shot in the chest, multiple times, and killed. The shooting occurred during a traffic stop in the   hours on Sunday. [Auburn Police Officer Ronald Tarentino stopped a vehicle on a residential street at about 12:30 a. m. Sunday morning. The occupant of the vehicle shot the officer multiple times in the chest and fled the scene, the Associated Press reported.  Tarentino, 42, was transported to UMass Medical Center in Worcester for treatment. He was pronounced dead at the hospital. Auburn Police Chief Andrew Sluckis declined to provide any information about the shooter at this time, the AP reported. “We will leave no stone unturned in our investigation to determine who was involved,” Sluckis said. The officer is a   veteran of the department. His chief called him a “dedicated and brave public servant. ” Tarentino leaves behind a grieving widow and three children. Following his death at the hospital, officers and fire fighters lined up to honor the fallen police officer and pay their respect. His body was escorted by a convoy of police vehicles while being transported to the medical examiners office. WCVB ABC5 in Boston reported that a neighbor overheard the shooting. “I didn’t see anything, but I heard rapid fire,” the neighbor told the local news outlet. “Initially, I thought it was fireworks. ” Tarentino was the third officer shot and killed nationwide this month, according to the Officer Down Memorial Page (ODMP). He was the nineteenth officer to be shot and killed in the line of duty this year. In total, 38 officers have been killed or have died in the line of duty since January 1. On May 19, Phoenix Police Officer David Glasser was shot and killed while responding to a home burglary in progress. He was reportedly shot and killed by the suspect, who was the son of the homeowner. The father had reported their son was stealing items from their home, the ODMP reported. On May 9, Kansas City, Kansas, Police Detective Brad Lancaster was shot and killed while responding to assist other officers during a “suspicious person” call. The ODMP reported the suspect shot the detective after being found. The suspect shot Lancaster twice and then stole his police vehicle and fled the scene. He later carjacked another vehicle and kidnapped two children who were in the back seat. The suspect was later taken into custody but not before he allegedly shot another person and crashed the stolen car. Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas and is a member of the original Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX.