Dozens of Black Lives Matter and   supporters, including an editor for ThinkProgress have taken to Twitter after the murder of three Baton Rouge police officers earlier today. [Zack Foster, an editor for ThinkProgress, said it was “no surprise” that some people were “taking justice into their own hands. ”   “DJ Niyo Davinci,” a DJ and producer who claims to have worked with   rappers including Lil Wayne joked that he was “riding around Baton Rouge Wit A Big Pistol” and said that it “feels good to see N***as knocking these pigs off. ” Feels Good To See Niggas Knocking These Pigs Off.  —   DJ Niyo Davinci (@FSNIYO) July 17, 2016,  “Sorry not sorry to hear about officers being shot in Baton Rouge. It was only a matter of time you pigs had it coming” posted one user on Twitter along with a series of pig emojis, before deleting the tweets after heavy backlash. “If police won’t get their shit together, civilians will continue to take matters into their own hands. Don’t blame em either. Fire away”. Three more pigs killed in baton rouge.  —   larry rush (@rushljr) July 17, 2016,    “Loling at the fact that they shot the Baton Rouge police” posted another user. “That is the only police department that I know deserved it aside from dpd”. Loling at the fact that they shot the Baton Rouge police. That is the only police department that I know deserved it aside from dpd,  —   mister literal (@SachtlebenReal) July 17, 2016,  “My thoughts on the recent police killings in #BatonRouge. FUCK THE POLICE. FUCK THE POLICE. FUCK THE POLICE. ” wrote one user who displayed the #BlackLivesMatter hashtag in their account description. My thoughts on the recent police killings in #BatonRouge  FUCK THE POLICE. FUCK THE POLICE. FUCK THE POLICE. pic. twitter.   —   ️ (@rihIigious) July 17, 2016,  “Pigs eat dust in baton rouge #fuckthepolice” declared another. Pigs eat dust in baton rouge #fuckthepolice https:  .   —   Ida B Wells KC (@IdaBWellsKC) July 17, 2016,  Some users attempted to justify the shootings, claiming that the police officers “deserved” to be killed. Fuck all those police men too!! They deserve everything coming to them! Fucking pigs! #FBIThat,  —   Migo Gonzo! (@IGnzo) July 17, 2016,  Yea y’all damn near asked for it don’t feel sorry for them pigs now,  —   p♚ (@KodakLetItSpray) July 17, 2016,  “This is what happens when you put people in a cage and poke at them for centuries” wrote one girl who received heavy backlash after tagging the #BatonRouge hashtag in her post. This is what happens when you put people in a cage and poke at them for centuries #BatonRouge,  —   Team Instinct (@_CoolStoryCori) July 17, 2016,  “Not saying they deserved it, but the police in Baton Rouge certainly weren’t discouraging violence between protesters and police” posted another user, who used both the Black Lives Matter and a Deport Trump hashtags on his account. Not saying they deserved it, but the police in Baton Rouge certainly weren’t discouraging violence between protesters and police.  —   BlaiseSchaefer (@blaiseschaefer) July 17, 2016,  #BatonRouge  shooting has nothing to do with #BlackLivesMatter https:  .   —   Harriet Garner (@hbg1x48) July 17, 2016,  “fuck dem cops itll never be no justice when killing US is legal” wrote one user under the name of iSmokebroccoli, before deleting his post. “Alton Sterling still dead remember dat. ” [ three dead pigs  …    who cares? ]  —   [ Uproar Division ] (@uproardivision) July 17, 2016,  Speaking of 12. They went in on the pigs in baton rouge. #blacklivesmatter,  —   TRILL COSBY (@b_blizzle) July 17, 2016,  Some one just told me Three Pigs are dead! Is that True#BatonRouge,  —   Human  ω̶R̶i̶g̶h̶t̶s (@khawajaatteeq) July 17, 2016,  Black Lives Matter and   supporters previously took to Twitter in celebration earlier this month after the shooting of more than ten police officers in Dallas, Texas. “Put them pigs in a blanket” wrote one user along with the #Dallas hashtag and two emojis depicting a police officer with a gun to his head. “Aw it’s unfortunate it wasn’t more” posted another. Despite Twitter’s policy against the promotion of violence, terrorism, and other illegal activities, the social network has failed to respond to many of the inflammatory tweets made by users on their platform, whilst prominent conservatives are both frequently and swiftly punished on the site for having the wrong political opinion. Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey has been spotted with Black Lives Matter leader Deray Mckesson on numerous occasions, with the two recently even seen wearing the same Twitter “Stay Woke”   furthering rumors that the pair might be in a romantic relationship. Charlie Nash is a reporter for Breitbart Tech. You can follow him on Twitter @MrNashington or like his page at Facebook.