Last week, we brought you the story of how Colin Kaepernick declined to vote in this year’s presidential election. Well, it turns out he has never even registered to vote, anywhere. [According to the Sacramento Bee, “Kaepernick, who was raised in Turlock, (California) turned 18 in 2005, but he has not registered to vote in California at any point in the last decade, according to records maintained by the California Secretary of State. He also did not register in Nevada while he attended the University of Nevada, Reno, from 2006 to 2010, according to the Washoe County Registrar of Voters. That means he missed presidential elections in 2008 and 2012  —   when Democrat Barack Obama was elected president  —   in addition to a variety of state and local elections in other years. ”  The ballot in California this year alone was four pages long. To put this in perspective, if you mark 2006 for the start of Colin Kaepernick’s legal voting lifetime and factor in an average of three pages of ballots a year, he missed at least five elections and at least 15 pages worth of referendums, propositions, and ballot initiatives that could have effected issues he claims to care about. For anyone who views those pesky California ballots, referendums, and initiatives as inconsequential, remember that California voters once removed a sitting governor at the ballot box. The Gray Davis recall occurred before Kaepernick reached voting age, but based on his track record he probably wouldn’t have shown up for that, either. Kaepernick not voting in any of the Obama elections stands out as the real offense here. He claimed this election as nothing more than a contest to see “who’s less racist,” calling both Trump and Clinton racist. Given that, wouldn’t it have made a lot of sense to vote for the first black president in history, the one man Kapernick believes is not a racist? It would have made a lot of sense, but as we’ve come to understand about Colin Kaepernick, when something makes a lot of sense he does the other thing. Follow Dylan Gwinn on Twitter: @themightygwinn