On Friday, the Federal Bureau of Investigation released its interview with Hillary Clinton regarding the former Secretary of State’s handling of classified information. [In addition to the heavily redacted 58 pages, the FBI released a memorandum summarizing their probe into Clinton’s use of a   email server that for months has plagued the Democratic presidential nominee’s campaign.  The documents reveal that, during her time in office, Clinton lost several mobile telephones carrying   from her private server. Clinton’s   Huma Abedin and former Clinton aide Monica Hanley indicated, according to the report, that “the whereabouts of Clinton’s [mobile] devices would frequently become unknown once she transitioned to a new device. ” Abedin also admitted that the former Secretary of State was accustomed to using the 8th floor balcony of the State Department building to check her emails  —   despite knowing she was not allowed to use her mobile devices in her office, the files reveal. As Breitbart News’ Joel Pollak reports: Presumably, anyone watching the movements of the Secretary of State would have known that she was about to use her mobile devices, either to access her email or perhaps to make telephone calls, as soon as she appeared on the balcony. Read further coverage on this story from Breitbart News: FBI: Hillary Clinton Could Not Remember Briefings Due to Concussion, Hillary Clinton ‘Could Not Recall’ Dozens of Email Details for FBI, Hillary Clinton’s ‘Oh S**t’ Moment: Emails Wiped With BleachBit After Secret Server Discovered, Trump Campaign: FBI Notes Prove Hillary Clinton’s ‘Bad Judgment and Dishonesty’ Hillary Clinton Jeopardized President’s Email with Direct Contact Overseas, Hillary Clinton’s Head Trauma Only Allowed Her to Work ‘A Few Hours a Day’ Hillary Clinton Told FBI That State Dept. Did Not Train Her on Protecting Classified Information, Read the released document below: Hillary R. Clinton Part 01 of 02,  Hillary R. Clinton Part 02 of 02,  This is a developing story.