Forty minutes after the explosion in Chelsea Saturday night, Donald Trump told a crowd in Colorado that a bomb had gone off in New York and said, “We better get very tough, folks. We better get very, very tough. ”  For the next 48 hours, the media denounced Trump for jumping to conclusions about a “bomb”  —   and especially for the wild suggestion that government policy had had anything to do with it. (How about our policy of naturalizing 858 people from   countries who were still under orders of deportation? Is it deplorable to ask about that policy?) That night, CNN boasted that it placed “numerous requests” to the Trump campaign, demanding his evidence that it was a bomb. This   device with a detonator that blew up in a dumpster  —   what makes you think it was a bomb? Hoping to get a snappy riposte from the pouty pantsuit on Trump’s wild leap from an explosion in a dumpster to a “bomb,” the press asked her to comment on Trump’s “conclusion”  —   as they termed his statement of the blindingly obvious. Hillary referred to the bombing as a “bombing,” then snipped, “I think it’s important to know the facts about any incident like this   …     I think it’s always wiser to wait until you have information before making conclusions. ” True, there was a bombing, but that doesn’t mean there was a bomb. Let’s not fly off the handle. It could have been an exploding Edible Arrangement. Even after the dumbest mammal in North America, New York Mayor Bill de Blasio, had admitted it was a bomb, journalists were indignant that Trump had called a bomb a “bomb” before they said so. On CNN’s “Inside Politics” on Sunday, The New York Times’ Maggie Haberman said that even Trump’s supporters worry that “he often gets ahead of information” and that Democrats would make it an issue of his not being “careful, that he doesn’t wait for facts. That he just goes off and talks. ” Hey, Maggie? I’m a Trump supporter and I know lots of Trump supporters. None of us ever worry about Trump “getting ahead of the facts. ” CNN’s Sara Murray complained that Trump “seizes on these moments so instantly before we have the facts. ” Instead of instantly seizing on this moment to assume Trump was wrong, shouldn’t Sara have waited until all the facts were in? On CBS’ “Face the Nation,” The Washington Post’s Ruth Marcus announced, “I’m a facts girl”  —   thanks for sharing your OKCupid profile with us, Ruth!  —   “so I think the response, ‘I’d like to wait for the facts until I comment,’ is always a good idea. ” The media was enraged that Trump was sensible enough to realize what had happened. HE COULD HAVE BEEN WRONG! Yeah, but he wasn’t. As Trump said, “I should be a newscaster because I called it before the news. ” By Monday morning, Hillary was doing PR work for Islam, calling the culprits “bad guys,” but stressing that “we’re not going to go after an entire religion. ” No one had suggested “going after an entire religion,” but I guess you can never be too careful when dealing with all those deplorable, irredeemable Americans. A few hours later, New Jersey police caught the suspect, an Irish Catholic altar boy from Teaneck named Seamus Patrick O’Sullivan. Just kidding! He was an immigrant from Afghanistan named Ahmad Khan Rahami. This is the doubletalk the public has been forced to endure after every terrorist attack. As described in In Trump We Trust: E Pluribus Awesome! our media and politicians are pretty quick to jump to the conclusion that terrorist attacks have absolutely nothing to do with Islam. The night a truck bomb was found smoldering in Times Square, Mayor Michael Bloomberg went on “CBS Evening News” and said he thought it was somebody “homegrown,” maybe “somebody with a political agenda that doesn’t like the health care bill or something. ” The morning after the massacre at a gay nightclub in Orlando, NBC’s law enforcement analyst, Jim Cavanaugh, said that his best guess was that the shooter was a person “rooted in white hate movements,” and had picked the club “because it’s a diverse club and he hates diverse people. ” (By which I think he means yours truly! I have the perfect alibi, of course. If I ever found myself in a gay nightclub, I’d be too busy signing autographs to shoot anybody.) The fact that the shooter was a   Muslim immigrant named Omar Mateen, who had repeatedly pledged his allegiance to ISIS during the attack, was treated by our media as one of many strands of evidence, not nearly as important as the possibility that Mateen might be gay and had been scarred by America’s endemic homophobia. After the 2009 Fort Hood attack by a Major Nidal Hasan yelling, “Allahu Akbar!” Obama warned Americans not to “jump to conclusions. ” (Deplorable, irredeemable Americans are always jumping to unwarranted conclusions!) He proceeded to label the jihadist attack an act of “workplace violence. ” To Obama’s credit, his policies have reduced workplace violence considerably by putting so many Americans out of work. The media and Obama administration officials took weeks to settle on a motive for the San Bernardino terrorists, despite their having pledged allegiance to ISIS while committing the attack. That night, the Los Angeles Times falsely reported that an office dispute had preceded the slaughter. The Times won a Pulitzer for the reporting that included this intentional misdirection. The left has apparently decided that white America is a declining demographic and they are going to treat Muslim grievance groups like NARAL: We are with you on everything. It’s probably just a coincidence that Muslim immigrants are advantageous to the Democrats’ electoral prospects. Even the terrorists have been getting impatient with the American left’s refusal to give them due credit. Major Hasan’s spiritual adviser, Anwar   denounced the Obama administration for denying that the Fort Hood shooting was a glorious act of Islamic terrorism. After Orlando,  ’s   magazine, Inspire, ordered jihadists in America to concentrate on killing   Americans to avoid confusing the U. S. media. When American settlers sent scouts to ride ahead and look for Indians, if the scouts returned saying there were 6, 000 Sioux on the other side of the ridge, no one cared about their horsemanship or the language they used. Trump is the only politician in 50 years to say, “Immigration security is national security. ” The media won’t listen. But the voters are listening. COPYRIGHT 2016 ANN COULTER DISTRIBUTED BY UNIVERSAL UCLICK