TEL AVIV  —   President Obama “seems more in support of Muslims than Israel,” Donald Trump stated in the wake of the Orlando terrorist massacre. [Trump made the comments in a statement to Bloomberg News to clarify what he meant when he told Fox News on Monday that when it comes to President Obama’s grasp of Islamic terrorism, “He doesn’t get it or he gets it better than anybody understands  —   it’s one or the other, and either one is unacceptable. ”  He further told Fox News: Look, we’re led by a man that either is not tough, not smart, or he’s got something else in mind. And the something else in mind  —   you know, people can’t believe it. People cannot, they cannot believe that President Obama is acting the way he acts and can’t even mention the words “radical Islamic terrorism. ” There’s something going on. It’s inconceivable. There’s something going on. The Washington Post claimed that Trump’s statements about Obama getting Islamic terrorism “better than anybody understands” seems to be an accusation that, as the newspaper put it, Obama is “identifying with radicalized Muslims who have carried out terrorist attacks in the United States and   …     complicit in the mass shooting at a gay nightclub in Orlando over the weekend. ” In response, Trump spokeswoman Hope Hicks sent a statement to Bloomberg saying that the billionaire meant “President Obama seems more in support of Muslims than Israel. ” The statement continued: For example the Iran deal, which was one of the worst deals in history, gave $150 billion dollars to a radical regime, which will allow them to fund terrorist activities as well as pursue their stated goal of “full annihilation and destruction” of Israel. It is great for Iran and bad for Israel and the United States. Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio. ” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.