In a rare exclusive interview, Gennifer Flowers, who says she had a   affair with Bill Clinton, revealed details of what she says was her sex life with the former president. [Flowers said that while Clinton was the governor of Arkansas, she and the politician made love in the governor’s mansion where he lived with Hillary as well as in his state office, including in the conference room while there were people outside.  Asked whether Clinton was nervous that others might catch them in the alleged sex acts, Flowers replied: “I was nervous. He wasn’t nervous. He never seemed to care. I seemed to care more about people finding out or in some cases even Hillary and Chelsea then he did. I would bring it up to him. And he [would] vow, ‘No everything is going to be fine. Don’t worry about it. ’” Flowers was speaking in an interview set to air Sunday night on this reporter’s talk radio program broadcast on New York’s AM 970 The Answer and NewsTalk 990 AM. Listen to audio here: Flowers said that she and Clinton also often engaged in phone sex and she claimed that the two had sex in numerous places. “I had sex in the office when he was governor,” she said. “In the mansion, in his office, and in the conference room. With people outside. ” “We had a lot of fun together. We were two consenting adults,” she added. The issue of   locker room talk has dominated the news cycle after a 2005 audio and video recording was leaked of Donald Trump making controversial comments about women. Flowers was asked whether she ever heard Clinton engaged in “locker room talk. ” “So, you know, sometimes we had phone sex,” she stated. “So yeah. We were engaged in a lot of locker room talk. And he did with his friends and his associates like Roger Perry. ” Perry was a former State Trooper who gave interviews and later a deposition in which he stated that he used to help Clinton manage his alleged extramarital affairs. In our interview, Flowers identified Perry as the state trooper who “drive Bill around and brought him to my home often. ” She said she heard that Perry was “told by Bill that I could suck a tennis ball through a garden hose. ” That salacious anecdote was mentioned in a 1996 New York Times bestselling book by R. Emmett Tyrrell Jr. titled, Boy Clinton: The Political Biography. Page 278 states:   …    Bill later told his close aide, Arkansas state trooper Roger Perry, that Gennifer “could suck a tennis ball through a garden hose. ” In a recent interview with this reporter, Flowers stated that Hillary “absolutely” knew about the alleged affair as early as 1977, when Flowers says the affair began. She stated: “I know she did because there was a security guard at the mansion. Back then we didn’t have cell phones. So he (Bill Clinton) would have key people  —   whether it be Betsy Wright or a security guard at the mansion  —   for me to call and ask for and then that person would get a message to him to call me back. “And one day he came in and the security guard told him that I had called and gave him the message. And what he didn’t know was that she (Hillary) was actually there and was walking up to meet him and heard the guard say my name. And that I had called. And so she had a conversation with him a little bit later that she was getting real tired of hearing that name. And that she wanted it to stop. And he told her it wasn’t gonna stop. And she said, ‘Well, Just at least don’t embarrass me.’ Well of course he went on to embarrass her. Many, many times. “They had only been married about three months when he and I started our affair. You know, they didn’t have Chelsea. It started early on in their relationship as well. ” Flowers never sought to go public. Her name was put out there against her will when former Clinton insider Larry Nichols, who claimed he was improperly dismissed by Clinton from a state job, mentioned Flowers in court documents. In a lawsuit, Nichols alleged that Clinton diverted state funds to engage in extramarital affairs with five women, and he named Flowers, and four others, including former Miss America Elizabeth Ward Gracen and former Miss Arkansas Lencola Sullivan. Nichols would later drop his lawsuit, but the charges helped form the basis for tabloid stories alleging that Clinton had extramarital affairs, including with Flowers. Three days after Star magazine mentioned Flowers as Clinton’s alleged mistress, Bill and Hillary Clinton appeared in January 1992 side by side on 60 Minutes, where Bill denied a relationship with Flowers. To protect her reputation, Flowers held a press conference the next day where she played excerpts from tape recordings she had made of private phone calls with Clinton. In a deposition in 1998, Bill Clinton admitted he had a sexual encounter with Flowers. Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio. ” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.