Police in Baytown, Texas, arrested two individuals who were chasing people around a public park while donned in black clothing, wearing clown masks. Witnesses said they were chasing individuals around the park with a stick. One of the masked men was holding a large tree limb in each hand. [“It was scary. I’d heard of it happening but I never thought I’d see it in my city,” Mayci Henderson told KPRC. She was in the park with her    son and recorded the arrest.   In a statement obtained from the Baytown Police Department, Breitbart Texas learned that officers with the department responded to a call at approximately 6:07 p. m. at Jenkins Park in Baytown on Monday night. When law enforcement officials arrived, the two men ran into the woods. Officers were able to locate the    and the    males. Both of the teenagers are from Baytown. The pair was arrested and charged with making terroristic threats. They were released into the custody of their parents. The press statement from Lieutenant Steve Dorris, public information officer with the Baytown Police Department said: While these reports are often found to be false and more of an urban legend that has been around for several years, the Baytown Police Department takes each one seriously and will investigate these reports. Those found to be engaging in any alarming or threatening behavior will be subject to arrest in accordance with the law. The Baytown Police Department takes the safety and security of our citizens very seriously and will not tolerate attempts to cause alarm to our citizens or any negative influence in their overall quality of life. We encourage anyone wishing to report these types of incidents to contact the Baytown Police Department at   . As reported by Breitbart Texas, a student in Texas was also arrested early Tuesday after posting “clown threats” against school districts and campuses on Monday. He was taken into custody early Tuesday and charged with making terroristic threats, a third degree felony. Authorities at the Livingston Police Department investigated posts made by a “Larry Brown” on Facebook and the teenager was taken into custody around 12:57 a. m. reported the Houston ABC affiliate. The Houston Independent School District had several high schools and a middle school targeted and other school districts in the Houston area were also highlighted, including Alief ISD. The threats mentioned killing teachers as they were walking to their cars. Creepy   threats have been an issue in recent weeks. A    girl in Philadelphia made clown threats against local schools, reported the ABC affiliate. The girl told investigators that she and a friend were just committing a “prank” and they never intending to hurt anyone. Police in Washington Township, New Jersey arrested two teenagers in connection with two separate threats. The ABC affiliate reported that disturbing photos were posted on Instagram that included the caption, “hello we are in the Philadelphia area today. ” The post included the ominous warning that children would be kidnapped at 5 p. m. Many of those who are alive today can remember the “Killer Clown,” John Wayne Gacy. The serial murderer and rapist sexually assaulted and killed at least 33 teenage boys and young men in the 1970s. Gacy was reported to have a pleasant personality and entertained children as “Pogo the Clown. ” He was a Democratic Party precinct chair. He buried most of his victims under his home in Norwood Park, Illinois after he killed them there. Gacy was executed by lethal injection in 1994 after being convicted of the 33 murders. Lana Shadwick is a contributing writer and legal analyst for Breitbart Texas. She has served as a prosecutor and associate judge in Texas. Follow her on Twitter @LanaShadwick2.