Thursday on Fox Business Network’s “Varney  Company,” Breitbart editor at large and “Clinton Cash” author Peter Schweizer said he was “shocked” networks like CNN and NBC will not investigate presumptive Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton receiving millions for the Clinton Foundation.  Schweizer said, “I think everybody gets money and politics is a problem and whether you talk about Wall Street or big oil, and they give money to politicians because they are expecting something in return. With the Clintons it’s not any different. The problem with the Clintons is the amounts are larger because you have speaking fees, and the foundation, which other politicians don’t have, but second of all it’s foreign money. It’s not Americans trying to get favors or beneficial action from the American government. It’s now foreign entities. If they want us to all suspend belief and say people are giving them hundreds of millions of dollars and not getting nothing in return, I guess they can make that argument. The American people are more sophisticated than that. ” He added, “I did two chapters in the book on this Russia uranium deal. Donald Trump talked about in his speech. The New York Times actually took our reporting and did a 4, 000 word   piece confirming all of it. You’re talking about $145 million from shareholders in a very small Canadian uranium company that needed Hillary Clinton’s State Department to approve the sale of their company to the Russian government. What the Clintons want to say is there was just this spontaneous outpouring of benevolent donations by these shareholders and had no effect on her. My point is, look, we would like to find out what kind of communication might have taken place. She deleted her dozen emails. But the point is, this needs to be investigated and I’m really frankly shocked that a lot of news outlets  —    I would name them, CNN, NBC for example  —   are not interested in pursuing the story. This story came out again,   New York Times a year ago, it was in the book. Hillary Clinton has been on those networks numerous times and she was not asked one single question about this transaction. An amazing lack of curiosity. ”