All but one of the nation’s largest banks earned an unconditional passing grade from federal regulators on their annual stress tests, which measure their preparedness to weather a financial crisis. The one   institution that did not pass unconditionally was Morgan Stanley, a Wall Street bank that has been struggling to regain its footing after the financial crisis of 2008. Regulators raised concerns over the company’s internal controls and processes. The Federal Reserve gave failing grades to the American subsidiaries of two European banks, Deutsche Bank and Santander, which both failed in previous years. The banking stress tests  —   which measure whether banks have enough capital and liquidity, management controls and other necessary safeguards to survive various   situations  —   have been required of banks with more than $50 billion in assets since the passage of the   Act, which took effect in 2010. The passing grades mean that all of the big banks  —   even Morgan Stanley  —   will be able to pay dividends and buy back stock from shareholders. The results, announced by the Fed on Wednesday afternoon, are the second part of the annual stress tests, which compel each institution to run a simulation of how it would bear up under various catastrophic conditions, like an abrupt rise in interest rates or unemployment, or a big crash in equity markets. Last week, the Fed said that all the big banks would be able to make it through a recession and still maintain adequate financial buffers. On Wednesday, a Fed official said that even with the concerns raised, the stress test results suggest that banks would be able to withstand an event like Britain’s exit from the European Union, which has rocked bank stocks over the last week. Since the financial crisis, banks have been required to create large capital barriers to cushion against losses from a recession or market shock. While the financial system has not encountered any problems close to the mortgage losses of 2008, banks have been able to withstand more recent challenges like the steep drop in oil prices and the turmoil in Europe. While tougher capital requirements may be helping to stabilize the banks, they are hampering profitability. The stock prices of many large banks have languished as investors question whether these companies can increase their profits substantially in such a stringent new regulatory environment. The stress test results announced Wednesday are no doubt a welcome relief, in particular, to Bank of America and Citigroup, which have had difficulty passing the test unconditionally in past years. Both banks have spent tens of millions of dollars and assigned some of their top executives to the task of ensuring that they gain the Fed’s approval. Shortly after the results were made public, Citigroup announced that it would more than triple its dividend, to 16 cents from 5 cents, and buy back as much as $8. 6 billion of stock. Bank of America said it would increase its dividend to 7. 5 cents from 5 cents and purchase $5 billion in shares. Even Morgan Stanley came forward to say that it planned to raise its dividend to 20 cents from 15 cents and increase its share buyback program to $3. 5 billion for the four quarters beginning July 1, from $2. 5 billion in the previous period. The three banks that were called out by the Fed on Wednesday all had big enough financial buffers, the regulators said. Rather, the criticism was with more qualitative aspects of the way the three banks operate internally. At Morgan Stanley, the Fed said, the problems “include shortcomings in the firm’s scenario design practices, which do not adequately reflect risks and vulnerabilities specific to the firm, weaknesses in some aspects of the firm’s modeling practices, and weaknesses in governance and controls around both scenario design and modeling practices. ” Morgan Stanley will be able to return money to shareholders, as planned, but it will need to improve its internal processes by the end of the year. If the bank does not make those improvements, the Fed could halt the bank’s payouts. The results are an unhappy hiccup for Morgan Stanley, which has been struggling to raise its profits to the level of its competitors’ and is in the middle of a significant   campaign. In a statement, the chief executive of Morgan Stanley, James P. Gorman, said, “We are committed to addressing the Fed’s concerns about our capital planning process and fully expect to meet their requirements within the established time frame. ” For Deutsche Bank and Santander, the failing grades raise bigger concerns about their ability to satisfy American regulators. The Deutsche Bank unit in the United States has failed twice in a row, and Santander three times. In this and previous years, the Fed has applied its tests only to parts of Santander and Deutsche Bank. These two banks, as well as other foreign banks, like Barclays, UBS and Credit Suisse, have large operations in the United States that have not undergone stress tests. But that will soon change. The large foreign banks now have to organize their American operations into a single “intermediate holding company. ” Next year, the Fed will do a trial test of these entities and keep the results private. But in 2018, these large holding companies will be subjected to   tests, and the results will be made public. Failing those stress tests would be much more of a blow to Deutsche Bank and Santander than the hit they took on Wednesday. A Fed official said on Wednesday that all the big banks had been making progress but that Deutsche Bank and Santander still needed to make significant improvements. In a statement, Scott Powell, the chief executive of Santander Holdings USA, said, “We are financially sound. These results do not affect our ability to serve our customers. ” Deutsche Bank also emphasized that even though its American unit had failed the test, it still had adequate capital. “We appreciate the Federal Reserve’s recognition of our progress, and we will implement the lessons learned this year in order to strengthen our capital planning process,” Bill Woodley, deputy chief executive of Deutsche Bank Americas said in a statement.