Four hundred and eleven refugees have been resettled in the United States each of the first five days of the fiscal year that began on October 1. At this rate, the country is on track to resettle more than 150, 000 refugees in the fiscal year, a rate almost double the 84, 995 resettled in FY 2016, and more than 40, 000 greater than the 110, 000 the Obama administration has proposed for FY 2017. [A total of 2, 058 refugees from all countries have been resettled in the United States during the first five days of FY 2017, according to the Department of State’s interactive website.  As a point of comparison, only 65 refugees from all countries were resettled in the United States during the first five days of FY 2016.   percent of the FY 2017    or 921 out of 2, 058, were Muslim. “My post from last week shows the monthly admissions of refugees since 2006. The October average is traditionally the lowest resettlement month of the year. One October, 2006, we only brought in 1, 009 refugees, more than 1, 000 fewer than President Obama has brought in over the first five days of October 2017,” Ann Corcoran, who founded the Refugee Resettlement Watch blog in 2007, tells Breitbart News. “They build in August and September because they are usually desperate to hit their fiscal year ceiling by then. So to have this extraordinarily high rate this October, it confirms our greatest fear that President Obama will pour as many refugees as he can  before he leaves office, and before a potential Trump administration takes the reins,” she adds. “This explains why the State Department is on a quiet mission to open as many new resettlement sites in the country as they can,” she says. In the eleven fiscal years between FY 2006 and FY 2016, the October monthly admission of refugees to the United States averaged 3, 704. (40, 749 refugees were admitted during the month of October during these eleven years). Until this year, the highest monthly total of refugees resettled during the month of October was 6, 352, the number that came in during October 2014, the first month of FY 2015. This October, the Obama administration is on a record path to double that number. At a rate of 411 refugees per day, 12, 741 refugees will be resettled in October 2016, the first month of FY 2017. “If Hillary Clinton is elected, she will be on a glide path to reach 200, 000 refugees in FY 2017 easily,” Corcoran adds. “She can use emergency power under the Refugee Act to bring in more refugees than the 110, 000 ceiling Obama presented to Congress. ” “A Donald Trump administration could turn off the refugee spigot,” she says. News of President Obama’s  rush to resettle refugees during the final month of his administration confirms their statements that, if elected, Hillary Clinton is likely to resettle more than 200, 000 refugees annually, critics of the federal refugee resettlement program tell Breitbart News. It also highlights a major issue that divides the presidential election between Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton and running mate Virginia Sen. Tim Kaine, on the one hand, and Republican nominee Donald Trump and running mate Indiana Gov. Mike Pence on the other. Clinton and Kaine have publicly embraced bringing in 65, 000 Syrian refugees annually, and have not rejected calls by the Refugee Council USA, the lobbying arm of the lucrative refugee resettlement industry, to resettle 200, 000 refugees annually in the United States. In contrast, as Pence said in the   debate on Tuesday, “Donald Trump and I are committed to suspending the Syrian refugee program and programs and immigration from areas of the world that have been compromised by terrorism. ” As Breitbart News reported, “according to the new   poll released on Wednesday, voters overwhelmingly agree with Trump and Pence on the Syrian refugees issue. ” In the  national poll of 1, 690 registered  voters conducted on October 3,   percent oppose increasing Syrian refugees, while 54 percent said they do not believe the claim by President Barack Obama that Syrian refugees have been subjected to the most rigorous security vetting. At least one member of Congress says it’s time for the bureaucrats who run the resettlement program to listen to the voice of the people. “We are losing our country whose sole premise is that we are a nation under the law and that we the people are the true Sovereign we are not ruled from a distant palace,” Virginia Republican Rep. Dave Brat tells Breitbart News. “This refugee crisis response has not ever been put before the American people and our Congress has also given up any semblance of oversight as we voluntarily cede our control over the entire budget process to the new Sovereign in the executive branch,”Brat adds. “On the technical side it is true we have the most sophisticated vetting system in the world the system is just phenomenal but the only problem is that there are no data to use in this super system so we are allowing refugees in with no knowledge of who they are and who has sent them and where their true allegiance lies,” Brat adds. Texas leads the way with 220 refugees resettled in the five days between October 1 and October 5, followed by California (159) Arizona (152) Michigan (118)  New York  (96)  Ohio (96) North Carolina (78)  Pennsylvania (78) Minnesota (77)  Illinois (67)  Georgia (62)  Kentucky (59) Nevada (49) Idaho (45) Maryland (42)  Missouri (41)  Massachusetts (41)  and Colorado (40).   refugees from South Sudan, Iraq, Burma, the Democratic Republic of Congo, and Afghanistan were resettled in the small city of Twin Falls, Idaho (population 78, 000) alone, more than were resettled in two dozen states over the five day period. Fed up with the federal government’s failure to guarantee that the thousands of refugees brought in to the state meet security vetting standards, Gov. Greg Abbott announced last month that the state of Texas is withdrawing from the federal refugee resettlement program in January. The Obama administration resettled 265 Syrian refugees in the United States during the first five days of Fiscal Year 2017 according to the Department of State’s interactive website, putting it on a pace to resettle 19, 345 annually. In FY 2016, more than 12, 500 Syrian refugees were resettled in the United States. In the previous four fiscal years, about 2, 300 Syrian refugees were resettled in the country. California led the way with 40 Syrian refugees resettled in the first five days of FY 2017, followed by Michigan (39) Texas (33) Arizona (3O) Maryland (21) and New York (20) Georgia (14) and Nevada (12). Oakland County, Michigan continued to be a favorite destination selected by the Department of State, with 12 resettled refugees, more than 42 states. Oakland County Executive L. Brooks Patterson said last month Oakland County will sue the federal government for placing refugees in the county without complying with the “consultation clause” of the Refugee Act of 1980. One local citizens group, Secure Michigan, opposes the continuation of the federal refugee resettlement program in the state. “We the people of Michigan just lost a massive legal case to the DOJ and CAIR that will pay mosque developers $1. 7 Million and allow them to build a brand new “Shariahville:  —   houses, mosque, school, etc. in a residential area. These explosive refugee numbers from   countries warn us that Oakland County and the rest of Michigan will likely become infested with a collection of   Shariahvilles, where women are treated as property, unless some brave person can put stop to the invasion,” a spokesperson for Secure Michigan tells Breitbart News. Though Congress has not passed a full year’s budget for FY 2017 or acted on Obama’s proposal to bring in 110, 000 refugees in FY 2017, the interim ten week budget passed by Congress to cover expenditures between October 1 and December 9 provides the Department of State and the Office of Refugee Resettlement more than enough funding to front load the process and bring in refugees at the accelerated rate of 150, 000 per year. “Republicans in Congress went along with funding refugee resettlement at least at the FY16 levels at least through December so really, all the VOLAGs [voluntary agencies, also referred to as resettlement agencies] need to be concerned about is whether they can get the refugee per capita payment (taxpayer money). They get their cut and then the refugee individual gets their share,” an attorney familiar with the refugee resettlement program tells Breitbart News. The short and long term costs are shifted to state and local governments.  Welfare expenditures operate like a bottomless pit and regardless of the tall tales being told about refugee “economic ” the data on sustained refugee welfare usage speaks for itself. The refugee resettlement agencies located in our cities and towns are obligated at most to a 90 day commitment to the refugees they import into a community, so as long as they can get the per capita, they can keep the pipeline running. For Brat, the solution to the problem is evident, and in the hands of the American people. “On November 8, we can choose to make our country great again,” he tells Breitbart News.