On Friday’s broadcast of HBO’s “Real Time,” host Bill Maher said, GOP presidential nominee Donald Trump’s supporters “don’t really have problems. ” And Trump “is your voice, because you’re a whiny little b*tch!”  Maher said, “Eight years ago we were losing 800, 000 jobs a month. Now we’ve added 14 million. The stock market went from under 7000 to over 18. Consumer sentiment is as high as it was in the 80’s under Saint Reagan. The economy today is actually better than the one Mitt Romney promised in 2012, when he said he would get unemployment under six. Trump says, you have great economists that will tell you the unemployment rate is 30, 32. No, every economist knows it’s five, because they get their numbers from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, not from the Department of I’m hearing. If Mitt Romney were running on this economy, the people with the Make America Great hats would have   Romney stickers on their Rascal scooters, but the president isn’t a white man with an R next to his name, so it’s Flight 93. You know, I’ve read so much crap about how Trump voters are hurting and we should respect their anger and their pain. It’s a myth that the media swallowed whole. The average Trump primary voter makes 72, 000 a year, no more likely to be hurt by immigration or trade, or to be out work. Donald Trump doesn’t really have solutions and his supporters don’t really have problems. The only thing poor about them is their judgment. They’re hysterics, and they think President Tupac spent eight years turning the American Dream into nightmare on black street, and Hillary’s going to finish the job. The reason why Trump is so popular with a certain type of voter is because they’re kindred spirits, these white men sitting at the end of the bar, nursing a gin and tonic because their dick doesn’t work anymore, and life didn’t pan out the way they wanted. So they sit there crabbing about how the system’s rigged against them and America’s not winning anymore, and we’re getting pushed around by everybody, China and Mexico and women and blacks, who have so many advantages over white people. At the convention, Trump said I am your voice. For once he wasn’t lying, he is your voice, because you’re a whiny little b*tch!” Follow Ian Hanchett on Twitter @IanHanchett