Send your workplace conundrums to workologist@nytimes. com, including your name and contact information (even if you want it withheld for publication). The Workologist is a guy with   opinions, not a professional career adviser. Letters may be edited. How can I tell my boss to leave me alone when I take a vacation day? I work a lot of nights and weekends beyond the usual workday hours as it is, so I truly need time off to recharge. But she repeatedly pings me with “Sorry to bother you, but   …    ” emails  —   often with issues that she or someone else could handle. Ignoring these messages seems risky and unkind. Any suggestions? SAN FRANCISCO Is it really unkind to disregard an unnecessary intrusion into your personal time? I wouldn’t think so. You shouldn’t feel remotely guilty about wanting your off days to be   …     off. It’s possible that if your boss expects you to be totally responsive no matter what, there might be some risk in suddenly ignoring her. It sounds as though by now you may have in effect trained her to expect you to be constantly available. You might now need to go through the process of untraining her. Next time you’re taking a day off, warn her in advance that you’ll be away from email. You don’t have to get into detail it doesn’t matter whether you’re hang gliding, attending a funeral or just taking a personal digital sabbatical  —   everybody is unreachable sometimes. You might suggest others she could contact if issues about specific projects arise in your absence. Consider setting up an   on your email: You’re out until Monday (or whatever) and not checking messages. When you get back to the office, make a point of noting how energizing it was to take a   break, and how ready you are to dive back into work as a result. And I suppose this will sound crazy, but you could also ignore your email for a day. (Apart from being genuinely refreshing, this will test whether, without quite realizing it, you secretly enjoy your boss’s dependence on you.) At the very least, do not respond instantly if she emails despite your warning. Maybe she’ll try other options instead of waiting. If and when you do reply, try to point her to someone else, maybe looping in that person directly. Gradually, you should be able to train her that bugging you on your day off isn’t the most effective way to get her problem solved. About a year ago, a new staff member, “Jeff,” was hired in our small office. It quickly became clear that he was a huge mistake: He disappears for hours at a time, has lengthy personal phone conversations and has a demonstrably poor work output. In short, he is a disaster.  The boss has been oblivious to this (and other matters) and has actually praised Jeff. When one of us went to him to point out the problems, he claimed ignorance and promised to look into it. Nothing happened. Later he said he was taking the matter tohuman resources. He didn’t.  We are hesitant to report the situation to   as we worry about the consequences for our jobs. Is there a strategy that you would advise? N. D. A Workologist rule of thumb applies: Getting management to pay attention to a problem often depends on how you frame it. Anything that comes across as a complaint about a worker’s attitude is easy to shrug off as a personality conflict. Specific evidence of a negative effect on the organization is harder to ignore. So rather than saying, “Jeff is a lazy jerk,” you want the phrasing to go something like this: “This project is going to be late because Jeff is behind and has been out most of the day. ” Take notes on instances of problematic behaviors (like the unauthorized absenteeism) and link them as directly as possible to their consequences. When you go to the boss, stick to facts and avoid personal judgments. Bosses, like everybody else, often have plenty to deal with already, and (consciously or not) find it easier to let things slide until convinced that life will be easier in the long run if action is taken now. If you’re worried about going over the boss’s head, consider expanding  —   rather than just switching  —   the audience for your concern. You can go to him and human resources with the same message and inform each what you’ve told the other. And that   explanation can go to your boss and   at the same time. Finally, of course, there’s “Jeff. ” Is it possible that if you framed the issue to him in terms of its consequences (as opposed to his character) that he might shape up? Either way, it’s important to be   that he can be reformed. You may not believe this is possible, but giving him the benefit of the doubt will help you stay focused on the facts that affect the whole office, not on a personal dislike that’s hard to quantify. Regarding a reader’s difficulty over being a nondrinker at work events where peers are expected to share the wine and cocktails, I’ve found two responses helpful in my 28 years of sobriety: “Sorry, but I’m over my lifetime limit,” and “I’m allergic to alcohol  —   when I drink it I break out in handcuffs. ” These are not appropriate for every situation, of course, but one or the other usually gets the job done. EMILE, SAN DIEGO While this approach may not work for everyone, it’s not a bad idea if you can pull it off. A little humor can help smooth over any potential awkwardness, for both sides of the conversation: It sends a firm message and avoids getting personal, yet keeps the tone light. One caveat: If you try this, make sure you have a reasonable sense of what your audience will find appropriate.