Hillary Clinton responded to a popular Internet meme which suggests that the Democratic presidential candidate’s debate wardrobe was highly influenced by the   recording label Death Row Records in an interview on radio program The Breakfast Club this week. [“I think Death Row and a lot of other fashion sources have influenced my look, don’t you?” Clinton said.  . @HillaryClinton has seen the Death Row Records meme! Watch the full interview here: https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   The Breakfast Club (@breakfastclubam) October 26, 2016,  The question became relevant after a photo of Clinton wearing nearly identical outfits as Death Row Records founder Suge Knight and rappers Tupac Shakur and Snoop Dogg went viral online. We gone sit here and act like Hillary Clinton ain’t been representing Death Row Records at all 3 debates? pic. twitter.   —   BlackGoldLuxury. com (@double_cupp_me) October 20, 2016,  Clinton admitted that she does take time to pay attention to Internet memes, like the one above. When asked how to best “get guns off the streets,” Clinton said gun violence is a “public health epidemic” and the “number one cause of death for young   men. ” Clinton also said that dealing with police brutality has been her “highest priory through this campaign. ” “We have to face up to systemic racism we see it in jobs, we see it in education, we see it in housing,” Clinton said. “But let’s be really clear, it’s a big part of what where’s facing in the criminal justice system. ” Clinton also took a few jabs at Trump supporters while explaining how she plans to “heal all these divides. ” “What Trump has done is to make it possible for people who have racist and sexist and all kinds of prejudices and bigotry to put them right out there,” Clinton said. “But what he’s done really [is] unleashed a lot of darkness and divisiveness. ” The interview occurred on Clinton’s 69th birthday. Legendary singer Stevie Wonder also appeared during the interview. Wearing a black jacket with white letters that said “1st ♀ president,” Wonder endorsed Clinton’s candidacy and sang her a special rendition of “Happy Birthday. ” In an April interview on the same New York radio show, Clinton admitted to pandering to black voters by feigning affinity for   culture. As Breitbart News reporter Charlie Spiering notes, Clinton spent the interview celebrating singer Beyoncé but admitting that she couldn’t pronounce her name Clinton apologized for using the term “ ” to describe   black people she praised Steve Harvey’s fashion sense, and talked about playing dominos in Harlem, among other things. Watch the full interview below.    Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @JeromeEHudson