President Barack Obama has been quietly pushing new plans to bring thousands of additional Syrian refugees into the country, despite the concerns of state and county officials and the outrages committed by   migrants in Europe. [Obama’s special assistant to the president for immigration policy, Felicia Escobar, recently announced plans to increase America’s intake of migrants, according to the Washington Examiner.  “We want to make sure that we can increase our numbers of refugees that are able to settle here,” Escobar said. “The need globally is so, so, so massive right now, given all the displacement and conflict around the world, but we also know that we have to do it in a way that’s smart. ” Federal law already allows the administration to bring in 10, 000 Syrian refugees a year, but many states and local county administrations have complained that once the Obama administration places refugees among them, few resources are available to deal with them. The influx is very unpopular, according to polls. Also, nearly all immigrants from the Middle East are dependent on welfare. Some migrant and some   Muslim Americans also embrace jihad. A lack of communication on the placement of migrants also exists. In Greeley, Colorado, Weld County Commissioner Sean Conway recently noted, “Many times we don’t even know that relocation is taking place until it’s going on. ” A chart made earlier this year with information culled from the Refugee Processing Center, an agency of the U. S. Department of State, shows where Syrian refugees have already been placed in the U. S. Thus far, more than 76, 000 refugees have already been placed in over 180 cities. The chart shows 3, 103 refugees were sent to San Diego, California 1, 056 were dropped off in Miami, Florida 2, 100 in Atlanta, Georgia 1, 595 in Chicago, Illinois and 1, 255 in Nashville, Tennessee. Obama’s move to increase the inflow of Muslims comes only two months after hundreds of refugees coursed through Cologne, Germany on New Year’s Day attacking women, beating citizens, destroying and stealing private property, and committing rape. Similar incidents have been happening in Calais, France, where thousands of refugees have filled a camp near town this has become so bad, it has been called “the jungle. ” Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston or email the author at igcolonel@hotmail. com.