On Sept. 29, 1973, Peter Schjeldahl and Brooke Alderson, who had met the previous spring at an opening at the Whitney Museum, moved into an apartment on the top floor of a   at 53 St. Marks Place. It was the day W. H. Auden died, a fact that seemed to portend the lush bohemian life that followed. Mr. Schjeldahl, a poet and art critic, would go on to write for The Village Voice and for The New Yorker, where he has remained for two decades Ms. Alderson was an actress and comic. They had a daughter, Ada Calhoun, who grew up to be a writer herself. She dedicated her recent book, “St. Marks Is Dead,” a history of the street where she grew up, to them: “To my parents, who looked at the apocalyptic 1970s East Village and thought, What a great place to raise a kid. ” That chaos found counterbalance in a rural idyll. In the 1980s, Mr. Schjeldahl and his wife purchased many acres of mountainous land in the town of Bovina, a little more than three hours north of Midtown Manhattan. For more than a   the property served as the site of a Fourth of July celebration that has maintained a singular place in New York’s social history, drawing friends, and friends of friends, from the city  —   artists, writers, musicians, academics, gallery owners, movie stars  —   and a considerable segment of the surrounding population of Delaware County. At its most constrained, the event attracted as many as 300 people, who gathered not only for the kind of ecumenical fellowship rarely found in the modern world outside an A. A. meeting, but, above all, to experience Mr. Schjeldahl’s mythic, untamed fireworks. “We were strictly illegal, until the end,” Mr. Schjeldahl told me recently. “The cops and firemen brought their families. This is libertarian country. ” Last year, the pyrotechnics hewed more closely to legitimacy  —   a technical supervisor was even on the premises  —   but that party turned out to be the last, after approximately 2, 000 people showed up, word of it having reached a vast universe of Brooklyn millennials via social media, a means of communication Mr. Schjeldahl and his wife have never employed. “It was 300 hipsters from Bushwick coming down the driveway, and I nearly died,” Ms. Alderson said. Last year, guests, most of them not known to their hosts, could be overheard arguing about whether the property was a state park or a municipal park. One generation’s utopia had encroached upon another’s. Ominous signs began to present themselves a few years ago. Ms. Calhoun recalls entering a bedroom at the Bovina house to find a young woman she had never seen before changing into a bathing suit. On another occasion, her husband and young son were at a florist in Williamsburg where they learned that the young saleswoman behind the counter had become a regular at the party, even though she had no idea who actually held it. Even back in its more tightly circumscribed days, the party was so enormous that its hosts were hardly able to speak to everyone. One year, Mr. Schjeldahl received a warm note of thanks from Louis Menand, the literary critic and Harvard professor, who described the party as a spectacular aesthetic experience. The men had never met, not at The New Yorker, where they are colleagues, nor at the Fourth of July event. Over the years, the artists Brice and Helen Marden came, as did Steve Martin, the poet Susan Wheeler and Adam Horovitz of the Beastie Boys, who eventually brought Ben Stiller. The year Mr. Stiller came, he was assigned to the “front line,” an assemblage of guests tasked with lighting fireworks by hand. Carmine Covelli, the drummer for a band called the Julie Ruin, was dispatched to watch over him. Mr. Stiller looked terrified, Mr. Covelli said he noted that the actor never returned. Mesmerized by Mr. Schjeldahl’s obsession  —   one year, he said, he strapped explosives to trees because he’d seen fireworks shot horizontally from the Eiffel Tower, and grew jealous of French ingenuity  —   Mr. Covelli and Mr. Horovitz began filming a documentary about the annual event. The food was the other hallmark of the party. Everyone brought something. There were maybe a hundred pies once a hunter brought bear meat. Another distinctive element was an exercise in making uptight urban parents nervous. During the day, a huge basket of bottle rockets was made available to the children who were old enough to shoot away. “I know what I want when I grow up,” one little boy announced to his parents as they were leaving the party, Mr. Schjeldahl recounted. “A lighter. ” With the money they saved by calling off the party this year, Mr. Schjeldahl and Ms. Alderson went to Rome in the spring. They had a good time. This weekend, they will have two people posted on their front porch telling anyone who might not have heard that the era has ended. When Ms. Alderson realized she would need something to fill the time that months of party planning had consumed, she decided to build a miniature golf course with a Rip Van Winkle theme, a work still in progress. This weekend the couple will eat out, and they will mourn what was lost  —   a sense of inclusion and ultimately a tent that just got too big.    