January 5, 2017, Welcome to our very first production of CNN 10! Our international coverage explains the latest rift between the U. S. and Russia as well as the reasons for tensions between the U. S. and Israel. After 10 seconds of trivia, we’re showing you what it’s like to be a freshman in the new Congress, and after a report on the social media ”filter bubble,” we’re showing you a walking robot that’s truly 10 out of 10. On this page you will find today’s show Transcript. TRANSCRIPT, CARL AZUZ, CNN TEN ANCHOR:  We are thrilled to bring you are our first ever  production of CNN TEN, a new   program that explains global news to  our global audience.  My name is Carl Azuz. And we are starting today by explaining the latest rift in the strain  relations between the U. S. and Russia. For months, the Obama administration has accused Russia of interfering in  last year`s U. S. presidential election.  More recently, it said Russia did  this to help incoming President Donald Trump get elected.   So, over the holidays, the U. S. government sanctioned, it penalized some  Russian intelligence services, some officers that work for them and three  companies that helped support Russian intelligence.  America also closed  two Russian compounds and expelled 35 Russian diplomats from the U. S. So, how did Russia respond?  Its president, Vladimir Putin, has repeatedly  denied interfering in the American election.  He said he would not, quote,  ”stoop to the level of irresponsible diplomacy” that he`d allow American  diplomats to stay in Russia and that he`d be working to rebuild relations  with the U. S. after   Trump is inaugurated. A lot of different perspectives on all this.  The head of WikiLeaks, which  published millions of hacked U. S. documents, said they did not come from  the Russian government.  Critics, including   Trump, have  said there`s not enough proof the Russian government was behind the hacks.   U. S. House Speaker Paul Ryan called the U. S. sanctions on Russia overdue  but said they were an appropriate way to end eight years of failed policy  with Russia.  And Senators John McCain and Lindsey Graham said the  sanctions don`t punish Russia enough. There`s also trouble in the relationship between the U. S. and Israel, an  American ally in the Middle East.  On December 23rd, the United Nations  Security Council passed a resolution.  It says that Israel is breaking the  law by building settlements on land it captured and claimed as its own  during a war in 1967.   The U. S. usually vetoes resolutions like this because it sees them as  overly critical of Israel.  But in this case, the U. S. abstained.  It  didn`t vote.  That allowed the U. N. resolution to pass when 14 other  members of the council voted for it. The resolution itself is mostly symbolic.  It doesn`t penalized  international trade or cooperation with Israel.  But it makes a statement  that infuriated Israel, which has accuses the Obama administration of  secretly supporting the resolution.  The U. S. government denies, but all  this has deepened the divide between America and Israel. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SARA SIDNER, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  As a rule, settlements are    communities that are on Israel occupied land that the Palestinians had  hoped to use as a future state.  And one of the sticking points here is  that the Palestinians feel like their land as been stolen and also that it  stops them from having a contiguous or continuous area to call their own  state.   The Israelis say, ”Look, some of this land is historically ours.  Some of  this land is politically ours.”  And also, they`re using some of the land  for security purposes. All in all, this is one of the sticking points in the process and one of  the things that Secretary Kerry has tried to undo.  But now, the gloves are  off.  Because of this U. N. resolution in particular, the Security Council  resolution 2334, you are seeing the reaction from Israel, especially Prime  Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who was furious over this resolution and  basically slapped Israel`s hand and said that they are breaking  international law by putting those settlements in place. And then we heard from Secretary John Kerry who talked about the fact that  he believes that this is a real sticking point, a real problem in trying to  go forward in a peace process. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ ( ):    trivia.  What part of the U. S. Constitution  says congressional terms start on January 3rd?  Article IV, the 14th  Amendment or the 20th Amendment? It`s the 20th Amendment that sets January 3rd as Congress` start date  unless the Congress changes the date by law. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  And it was the 115th U. S. Congress that was sworn in on Tuesday.   Of the   Senate, 52 are Republicans, 48 are Democrats, that  includes two independents who vote with the Democrats.   Of the 435 voting members of the House of Representatives, 241 are  Republicans, 194 are Democrats. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) REP. PAUL RYAN ( ) SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE:  Do you solemnly swear that  you will support and defend the Constitution of the United States against  all enemies, foreign and domestic, that you will bear true faith and  allegiance to the same, that you take this obligation freely without any  mental reservation or purpose of evasion, and that you will well and  faithfully discharge the duties of the office in which you are about to  enter, so help you God? MEMBER OF THE U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES:  I do. RYAN:  Congratulations.  You are all now members of the 115th Congress. (APPLAUSE) (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  That`s what`s like to be sworn in to Congress.   Now for a look at what it`s like to be there for the first time.  There are  seven freshmen senators this term and 55 freshmen representatives.  Here  are two of them, along with their mutual hopes to work together. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) REP. JACK BERGMAN (R) MICHIGAN:  I am Jack Bergman, and I am the new  freshman congressman from the first district of Michigan.   REP. VAL BUTLER DEMINGS (D) FLORIDA:  I am Val Butler Demings,  representing Florida`s 10th congressional district, from Orlando.  And I am  a new member of Congress. SUBTITLE:  One Republican, one Democrat, one mission. There are 54 new ”freshmen” members of the House who started work on  January 3rd. The two are also   presidents.  Val Demings is a retired police  chief, and Jack Bergman, a retired lieutenant general in the Marine Corps. BERGMAN:  People like us are sitting here today in these new freshmen  congressmen roles, because the people who vote said they want to see  something happen, different than what has been happening here in  Washington, D. C. in the recent past.  I believe that`s why folks like Val  and I got elected. DEMINGS:  Many times, we only focus on our differences, and not our  similarities.  And I believe it was a major moment for us to begin there,  not leading with our party.  I didn`t go through what I went through the  last two years and did put my family through it to get here and do nothing.   The only way we`re going to be able to get some things done is to work  together. BERGMAN:  Together, that`s how the Founding Fathers imagined it and that`s  how it needs to be. We`re only going to be a freshman once, and if we don`t take advantage as a  freshmen class, Dems and Republicans, to begin to make our mark in this  115th Congress, then we have missed an opportunity. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  Strictly defined, an echo chamber is a room where the walls reflect  sound, giving it echoing sound effects.  Figuratively defined, it`s when  someone surrounds himself with ideas like his own and doesn`t get other  perspectives on a specific idea or issue.   This is what a lot of people have set up for themselves on social media,  though some may not even know it or have intended to create their own echo  chamber. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) REPORTER:  It`s human nature.  We surround ourselves with people we agree  with, and the Internet has only made it easier.   For many, Twitter is the place to have existing views reinforced.  Often  without realizing it, a lot of us chose to live in an echo chamber, a place  where it can seem like everyone on earth is just like us. And Facebook, well, Facebook takes it even further.  Of course, you can  hide those posts from the group you`re on, but Facebook actually does a lot  of that work for you, behind the scenes.  It knows what you like and what  you comment on, what brands you follow, what ads grabbed your attention,  events you`re attending and publications you read.  Facebook uses all that  data to feed its algorithms.  And those algorithms choose what you see.  And if you know where to look, you can actually see what Facebook thinks  you like, your interest, your hobbies, and even your political views.  The  result is what`s become known as the filter bubble, where your timeline is  filled with opinions you share. Facebook actually makes money off knowing those things.  They sell you and  your filtered bubble to advertisers.  Those advertisers will pay more to  get their products in front of people that are likely to buy them.  And if  you`re seeing things you like, you`ll spend more time on Facebook, seeing  more ads and making the company more money. But does the bubble keep us  ?  It`s a tough question to  answer, especially while the technology is still changing so fast.  But one  thing is for sure, that technology has the power to make us more connected  or more isolated than ever. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  Now for ”10 out of 10”.  Our last minute today goes to a robot  designed by a man who worked on movies like ”Transformers”.  You can pretty  much see that in the   a manned machine developed by a lab in South  Korea.  It`s taken more than two years and $200 million to bring the idea  to life.   It`s not finished.  The designer compares it to a baby taking its first  steps and they`re big ones.  The   weighs more than 1   tons.   So, there is the man in the machine and he`s got to love heavy metal.  Some  think it`s just a prototype to play Robocop, so you can keep your  mechanized field for that.  It`s certain there is a method to the madness  and that is ”10 out of 10” for CNN TEN, where the puns are intended and  automatic. I`m Carl Azuz.  Thank you so much for watching.  We hope you`ll take TEN  again tomorrow. Click for printable transcript. Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published. CNN 10 serves a growing audience interested in compact   news broadcasts ideal for explanation seekers on the go or in the classroom. The show’s priority is to identify stories of international significance and then clearly describe why they’re making news, who is affected, and how the events fit into a complex, international society. Thank you for using CNN 10!