There was the breadcrumb dropped on Valentine’s Day, by the   of my friend. The two women hadn’t spoken in months, after a prolonged breakup, and the ex was now seeing somebody new. Yet there she was, on the day of   romance, “liking” my friend’s Instagram photo   …     from three weeks ago. Which meant she had to have been scrolling through her feed. There was the friend, a digital strategist who, every few days, would receive a “sup” from a recruiter, except that the recruiter would never set up a time to meet. Once, my friend returned to his desk to find a “failed Google hangout” notification from this person, to which the recruiter later messaged to apologize for the “butt dial. ” My friend Victor Pineiro asked: “Was this a new recruiting tactic? Or just specific to this guy?” I’ve had my own share of breadcrumbers: the editor at the publication where I was vying for a job who repeatedly viewed my LinkedIn page (which I could see) but never messaged me the guy I went out with a couple of times who continued to text me every few weeks to “check in” months after we stopped seeing each other. Alicia Winokur, a recent graduate of Mount Holyoke College, said: “The worst type of breadcrumber is the one who resurfaces every six months, and like the Loch Ness monster, you almost can’t believe this creature has come back into your life. But there he is, saying, ‘Hey, I was just thinking about you. ’” “It’s like a meerkat poking its head up,” she added. “But not nearly as cute. ” For anyone who’s ever dated, or maintained any kind of relationship, in the digital age, you have probably known a breadcrumber. They communicate via sporadic noncommittal, but repeated messages  —   or breadcrumbs  —   that are just enough to keep you wondering but not enough to seal the deal (whatever that deal may be). Breadcrumbers check in consistently with a romantic prospect, but never set up a date. They pique your interest, of that prospective job, perhaps, by reminding you repeatedly that it exists, but never set up the interview. Breadcrumbers are one step shy of ghosters, who disappear without a trace, but are in more frequent contact than a person giving you the fade. On the hierarchy of digital communication, the breadcrumber is the lowest form. “It really is a cousin of the ‘friend zone,’” said Rachel Simmons, an author and leadership coach at Smith College. “It’s about relegating a person to a particular dead end, but one that still keeps them hanging on in some way. ” One can presume that the term breadcrumbing came from the fairy tale of Hansel and Gretel, at least according to Urban Dictionary. In the tale, Hansel snags a slice of bread in order to leave a trail of breadcrumbs so he and his sister, Gretel, can find their way home. Hansel’s breadcrumbs were a bust (a bird ate them) but the term was adopted by early computer programmers to describe those little navigation tabs that lead you back to home. The breadcrumbs we’re talking about do the opposite. They lead you astray. Among the different types of breadcrumbers:   who try to entice you with a text message of a URL, but without providing any context or setup bitmojiers, or their cousins, snapchatters, who, rather than communicate with actual words, prefer to remain ambiguous with an exaggerated cartoon of themselves holding up a sign that says, “LOL. ” (LOL to what, though?) “God forbid you say ‘How are you? ’” said Hilary Campbell, an illustrator in Brooklyn and the victim of a Bitmoji breadcrumber. There are creepers, who peep your social media pages but never make contact, even when they know that you know they have viewed your page there are zombies, who   from the dead, so to speak, after months of no correspondence and there are text bubblers, or those who type a message, stop, begin typing again and then stop, creating a specific kind of digital hell. “My brother breadcrumbs me constantly,” said Libby Leffler, a graduate student in Boston. “He’ll send me random links on Reddit and then disappear. Sometimes in response I am like, ‘Did you die?’ ‘Do I need to file a missing person’s report? ’” Like most of today’s torturous microcommunications, we have technology to thank for breadcrumbs. Sure, they may have existed a decade ago (a nod on the street, a “what’s up” in the hallway  —   these were technically breadcrumbs, right?) but they didn’t have quite the same “desperate wondering about what someone means,” Ms. Simmons said. “These are connections, not conversations,” said Sherry Turkle, a professor at M. I. T. who studies how technology shapes modern relationships. “They can have the paradoxical effect of making the person who receives them feel let down rather than gratified, but then, confused: Is one asking for too much? Should one feel satisfied with a smiley face or a series of exclamation marks or a string of emojis? What constitutes being recognized?” In a dating context, this can be particularly complex. There’s breadcrumbing when you’ve broken up with someone but you don’t want to let them go there’s breadcrumbing as a way of keeping a dating prospect on “hold” (what Ms. Turkle calls “activated but not active”). Or there’s breadcrumbing as a kind of game: when a person is “not interested in you, but interested in themselves staying relevant to you,” as Ms. Campbell said. “I had a breadcrumber who I’m convinced deliberately tried to use as few characters as possible in his messages so as to not seem too interested,” said Jordana Narin, a rising college senior who wrote a Modern Love column about her generation’s inability to commit. “So a sample text from him would be ‘wht are ur plans tmro’ or ‘are u in city,’ abbreviating some words and writing others out fully. It was like a game of how little effort could he put into it. ” Rest assured, though, there are ways to beat breadcrumbers at their own game. Sara Wilson, who works in social media marketing in Los Angeles, said she has developed a methodology for identifying a breadcrumber. It’s centered upon a few key phrases she calls “lazy to the power of 100,” which include: “Yo” “Fun night?” “Ha” “Sup” “Nice” “hey stranger” “It’s like the digital equivalent of a sneeze,” she said. Or, one may take the approach of Ms. Leffler. “Whenever people are breadcrumbish to me, I always reply to them with less words than they send me,” she said. “So if they were like, ‘sounds good,’ I would respond with ‘thumbs up. ’”