The most memorable thing about the   Game on Tuesday night might have been what happened before the first pitch was even thrown: A member of a Canadian quartet singing the country’s national anthem altered some lyrics and held up a sign that said “All Lives Matter. ” The group, the Tenors, which is based in British Columbia, drew heavy criticism on Twitter after one of its members, Remigio Pereira, inserted the political statement while singing “O Canada” before the game at Petco Park in San Diego. Mr. Pereira pulled out the sign from his suit jacket and, during a solo portion of the song, sang: “We’re all brothers and sisters. All lives matter to the great. ” The traditional lyrics at that point in the anthem are: “With glowing hearts we see thee rise. The True North strong and free. ” The other members of the group  —   Clifton Murray, Fraser Walters and Victor Micallef  —   said later they were “shocked and embarrassed” by the actions of Mr. Pereira, whom they described in a statement as being a “lone wolf. ” They added that his stunt was “extremely selfish” and that he would not be performing with the group until further notice. “Our sincere apologies and regrets go out to everybody who witnessed this shameful act, to our fellow Canadians, to Major League Baseball, to our friends, families, fans and to all those affected,” the statement said. “United We Stand” was written on the back of Mr. Pereira’s sign, The Associated Press reported. Major League Baseball had no idea Mr. Pereira planned to make a political statement, a spokesman, Matt Bourne, said. The episode happened against a backdrop of heightened racial tensions in the United States. Last week, two black men were killed in separate police   shootings and five police officers in Dallas were shot and killed by a black man who the authorities said was targeting white officers in retribution. “All Lives Matter” is a statement frequently delivered in response to “Black Lives Matter,” which has been used by activists to call attention to police shootings. The Canadian anthem was not broadcast live on American television, but it aired in Canada. At the stadium, fans reacted with surprise when Mr. Pereira’s sign was broadcast on the scoreboard. But that was nothing compared with the fury that appeared on Twitter: The Tenors were formed in 2007 and have performed more than 500 concerts on five continents and have made over 150 television appearances, according to the group’s biography. The singers appeared at the 2010 Olympic opening ceremony in Vancouver and with artists including Andrea Bocelli, Sting and Elton John. While the change in the anthem’s lyrics was widely criticized, some on Twitter found room for humor: