The impact of falling oil prices in Alaska, which has seemed for many residents like a distant worry until now, is about to land. The turning point came on Friday, when the State House of Representatives, meeting at the Capitol in Juneau in the fifth special session since last summer, failed to override a   veto of the budget by Gov. Bill Walker. That means the $1. 3 billion in spending cuts imposed last month by Mr. Walker, a political independent, will almost certainly take effect on top of cuts that lawmakers in the   Legislature had already agreed on. And those effects will ripple far and wide across the state, from public schools and the University of Alaska, which will see steep declines in state aid to individual households, in the form of reduced state oil investment dividend checks to the state court system, which began closing at noon on Fridays to save money. Tiny airports that connect the state’s vast rural areas may have to close. Leaders in both parties said that positions were too entrenched and bitter to even bring up an override attempt to the floor, where it would have required a   supermajority to succeed, or to consider any of the taxes that Mr. Walker proposed to keep programs from being cut. Although the State Senate plans to continue meetings next week, the legal deadline for trying to roll back Mr. Walker’s dramatic   restructuring passed on Friday with the close of business. “Staying here for another 30 days is not going to resolve the revenue issues before us,” said Mike Chenault, the House Speaker, a Republican. Taxes paid by oil and gas companies, from the fields at Prudhoe Bay to Cook Inlet near Anchorage, make up about 90 percent of the state’s general fund revenues in Alaska, which has no statewide sales tax or income tax. But with the price of crude down by more than 50 percent from its high a few years ago, and production in   decline, those tax collections have dried up, exposing a deep dependence, and vulnerability. Anger is swirling, too. A petition drive has begun, seeking a ballot vote to recall Mr. Walker, a former Republican who was elected in 2014. Lawmakers in both parties could face voter anger in November, if only for being ineffectual in doing anything about the governor’s cuts. “I think it is likely that someone will file a lawsuit  —   highly likely,” said Senator Bill Wielechowski, a Democrat who said he thought Mr. Walker’s actions in unilaterally reducing dividend payments were illegal. “I’ve been getting calls from people who want to file a lawsuit, want to be a part of a lawsuit, people who have been around for a long long time, very well known politically in Alaska. ” In Mr. Walker’s veto, he also slashed tax credits that oil companies can get for exploration, which many Republicans objected to, saying it could hamper incentives to bring in new energy fields. But he also made some Democrats wince, in cutting education spending and the dividend fund paid to residents, which budget analysts at the University of Alaska said would hit poorer residents hardest because a state check is a bigger part of their income. Residents will still get a dividend from investment income earned by the state’s $54 billion Permanent Fund, but Mr. Walker ordered it capped at $1, 000 per person, down from just over $2, 000 last year. In Alaska  —   where many things, from food to energy, are expensive  —   the dividend has become entwined into the economic system. Police departments and social services agencies, for example, routinely garnish the dividend checks of people who owe fines or delinquent child support payments they have begun calculating the costs of what cannot be collected or distributed. Mr. Walker, who proposed a raft of new taxes to keep state programs afloat, including the reintroduction of an income tax, repealed in 1980 after the oil boom hit, said in his veto message that inaction by the Legislature had become a threat to Alaska’s future, requiring a response from the executive branch. He also said that the Legislature’s plan to rely on borrowing from a savings fund to keep programs afloat  —   and the refusal by a majority of lawmakers to consider any significant increase in taxes paid by residents  —   meant that problems will grow worse. “My team and I introduced a balanced plan in December that fairly distributed the burden across all demographics. Not a single measure of that plan was passed by the Legislature, nor was another plan even introduced,” Mr. Walker said. On Thursday, at a news conference before the Legislature’s adjournment, his exasperation was clear. “How bad does it have to get before we actually do something?” he asked. Budget pressures have pushed Alaska to make structural changes that people in both parties say will ultimately be good for the state. An overhaul of the criminal justice system, for example, that was signed into law by Mr. Walker on Monday and supported by lawmakers in both parties, aims to reduce the prison population by 13 percent over the next eight years partly by reducing penalties for nonviolent offenses like drug possession, saving the state $380 million. Some of those savings will be reinvested into drug treatment services,   support for offenders returning home from prison, violence prevention programming and crime victims’ services. Mr. Walker, a former energy lawyer and mayor of Valdez in southern Alaska, has said that his unaffiliated political status has given him greater latitude to push for changes like justice reform and fiscal overhaul. But as his allies have pointed out, Mr. Walker has constructed his administration in a way that could now divide or confound the governor’s enemies. A former Republican candidate for the United States Senate, Joe Miller, is leading the recall drive to kick Mr. Walker out. But if Mr. Miller’s efforts are successful, they would propel a Democrat, Lt. Gov. Byron I. Mallott, into office.