 (CNN) Here’s a look at the March 2004 bombings of commuter trains in Spain, which killed 191 people and injured more than 1, 800. The bombings were the deadliest terrorist attack in Spain’s history. Facts:On March 11, 2004, ten bombs in backpacks and other small bags, such as gym bags, exploded on four commuter trains. One bomb did not explode and was defused. The police did controlled explosions on three other bombs. Investigators found an intact bomb in a gym bag they presumed was aboard one of the trains. The bag, with the bomb in it, was actually discovered at a police station, after it had been taken to the large temporary morgue at Madrid’s main convention center fairgrounds. Inside they found a   explosive, a detonator with a cell phone and a timer. The cell phone opened up ”new lines of investigation.” The explosive found in the bag was not of the type usually used by ETA, but was instead a more ”modern” version of ETA’s usual dynamite. ETA, a Basque group labeled a terrorist organization by the United States and the European Union, and al Qaeda were the original suspects cited by the Spanish government. Through anonymous phone calls to Basque media outlets, ETA vehemently denied involvement. Islamic militants who were based in Spain but inspired by al Qaeda were designated later as the prime suspects. Timeline:March 11, 2004   Beginning at 7:37 am CET, coordinated attacks including 10 bombs on four commuter trains at three different stations, kill 191 people and wound more than 1, 800. March 11, 2004   Spanish Interior Minister Angel Acebes states that authorities can’t rule out the possibility the bombings ”might be linked with the Arab world.” Al Qaeda is known for large, coordinated attacks. March 13, 2004   An al Qaeda claim of responsibility is made via video tape by a man speaking in Arabic with a Moroccan accent. March 13, 2004   Five people are arrested in connection to the case 60 hours after the bombings. Three of those arrested are Moroccans, and two are Indian. Prepaid phone cards and a cell phone from backpacks found at the bombing site link the five to the investigation. March 14, 2004   The Spanish Interior Ministry releases the names of five people detained in connection with the attacks. The men are identified as Jamal Zougam, Mohamed Bekkali, Mohamed Cahoui, Vinay Kohly and Sureh Komar. March 18, 2004   Spanish authorities arrest four North Africans in connection with the terror bombings in Madrid. The radio report says three were arrested in the Madrid suburb of Alcala de Henares and the other North African was arrested in northern Spain. They are: Abderrahim Zbakh, Farid Oulad Ali and Mohamed El Hadi Chedadi, about 38. His brother, Said Chedadi, was indicted last September by a Spanish judge for links to al Qaeda.    The fourth suspect is not identified but is described as being of Arab descent.  The fifth suspect is a Spanish citizen who goes by the name of Jose Emilio Suarez Trashorras. He is arrested in northern Spain.  March 19, 2004   Spain’s National Court charges five suspects in connection with the bombings and remands them into custody after an   court session. The Court also releases Ali Amrous, an Algerian man held in connection with the Madrid terror attacks and suspected of being an al Qaeda member. March 22, 2004   Spanish state radio reports four new arrests in the   Madrid bombings. March 24, 2004   A Spanish judge charges two more suspects, Naima Oulad and Rafa Zouhier, in the March 11 commuter train bombings around Madrid, bringing the total number of people charged in the attacks to 11.   March 25, 2004   A Spanish judge charges a Moroccan man, Faisal Alluch, with collaborating with a terrorist group in connection with the Madrid train bombings, boosting the number to 12 suspects who have been charged in the case.  March 30, 2004   Spanish Interior Minister Angel Acebes names a Moroccan terrorist group, Moroccan Islamist Combat Group (GICM) as the principal focus in the investigation of the Madrid train bombings. March 30, 2004   Moroccan Fouad El Morabit, who had been released without charges, is   hours later.  Court sources also confirm the latest arrest in the case, a man identified as Otman el Gnaout.    March 30, 2004   Basel Ghayoun, a Syrian man, is charged in the bombings. Hamid Ahmidan of Morocco is charged with collaborating with a terrorist group and a count of drug possession. Three other men are released. March 31, 2004   A Spanish National Court judge issues international arrest warrants for six more suspects in the Madrid train bombings as the investigation focuses on the Moroccan Islamic Combatant Group (GICM). The Interior Ministry also releases their names and photographs to the public. The Interior Ministry said five of the men sought are Moroccans. They include two brothers and a man who is related to other Moroccans previously arrested. The sixth man sought is a Tunisian. March 31, 2004   Arraignments begin for two men, Antonio Toro Castro of Spain and Mustafa Ahmidam from Morocco.   April 2, 2004   A bomb found under   rail tracks between Madrid and Seville appears to be made of the same explosives used in the March 11 attacks.  April 2, 2004   A Spanish judge releases without charges two Syrian men who had been detained in connection with the March 11 Madrid train bombings. He also frees a Moroccan man but orders him to report daily to police until further notice. April 3, 2004   Seven suspected terrorists kill themselves and a policeman when they set off an explosion in a suburb of Madrid as police attempt to enter the building. The suspects are presumed to be involved in the Madrid train bombings on March 11. Fingerprints at the scene later resulted in more arrests, including Saswan Sabagh. April 3, 2004   Spanish authorities arrest two more people but the identities of the two are not released. April 7, 2004   A National Court judge charges two more Moroccan suspects, Abdelilah El Fuad and Rachid Adli, in the March 11 Madrid train bombings.   April 12, 2004   Spanish police arrest three more suspects. One of the three was identified as Fouad El Morabit, who has now been detained three times. The other two are not identified. May 6, 2004   Brandon Mayfield, an American attorney, is taken into custody by the FBI in connection with the attacks. His fingerprints were found on a bag containing detonators of the kind used in the attacks, in close proximity to the blast site. The Spanish Interior Ministry spokesman said the plastic bag was found inside a stolen van left near the Alcala train station, from which the three bombed trains departed. US sources are calling him a material witness, not formally charging him with a crime as of yet, and state that he is a follower of Islam.   November, 2004   Spanish lawmakers launch an inquiry into the train bombings.  January 2005   Spain’s interior minister says Spanish officials have made 66 arrests in the train bombing investigation.  April 11, 2006     people are indicted in a Spanish court in connection with the bombings. Five men are charged with planning and carrying out the plot, and a sixth is named as a ”necessary collaborator.” The rest are charged with supporting roles. February 15, 2007   Start date of trial for 29 defendants. Seven defendants are considered prime suspects, and they each could face sentences of about 38, 000 years in prison for mass murder, if convicted. June 4, 2007   One of the 29 defendants in the Madrid train bombings trial, Brahim Moussaten, has been cleared of all charges and is now a free man, a court spokeswoman tells CNN. October 31, 2007   Verdicts are read for the remaining 28 defendants. Three men are found guilty of the most serious charges and sentenced to thousands of years in prison. However, under Spanish law, they will serve only 40 years. Eighteen defendants are found guilty of lesser charges. Seven defendants are acquitted, including alleged mastermind Rabei Osman. July 17, 2008   Four defendants, Basel Ghalyoun, Mouhannad Almallah Dabas, Abdelilah     and Raúl González, have their convictions overturned. The acquittal of Rabei Osman is also upheld. December 18, 2008   A criminal court in Morocco convicts Abdelilah Ahriz of belonging to a terrorist group involved in the train bombings and sentences him to 20 years in prison. Prosecutors originally requested that Ahriz be given a life sentence, saying DNA sampling proved his involvement in preparing the train bombings. May 12, 2009   Ten of the 14 suspected Islamic militants accused of assisting the three suspects are acquitted by Spain’s   court. The ruling gives the remaining four sentences between two and nine years for falsifying documents or being part of a terrorist group. January 13, 2010   A Spanish court convicts five men accused of Islamic terrorist activities, including aiding fugitives from the Madrid train bombings of 2004 and planning other attacks. Their sentences, on charges of collaborating or belonging to an Islamic terrorist group, range from five to nine years in prison. February 2011   Spain’s Supreme Court overturns the lower court’s conviction of the five men convicted in January 2010 for Islamic terrorist activities that included aiding fugitives from the Madrid train bombings and planning other attacks.