MORRISON, Colo.  —   Surrounded by the   geological formations that cradle Red Rocks Amphitheater here, Jemaine Clement and Bret McKenzie could not help but contemplate the passage of time. On a cool July evening, these two comedians and musicians from New Zealand, who perform together as Flight of the Conchords, told more than 9, 000 gathered fans that they were sorry for having grown older since their last tour of the United States three years ago. As they age, Mr. Clement said, “It ultimately reminds you of your mortality, and for that, we apologize. ” Their advancing years are showing, too. “In that time,” Mr. McKenzie said, “we’ve come to like jazz music. ” For the 18 years that this band has existed, Flight of the Conchords has been distinguished by its subtlety: songs, jokes and stage banter so understated, you could be forgiven for not realizing when the two men performing them are joking. “There’s a very blurred line between the material and us just talking about things,” Mr. McKenzie, 40, said earlier that afternoon as he sat beside Mr. Clement, 42, on a   couch. “The audience thinks everything is a bit,” Mr. McKenzie continued. “But often it’s not a bit  —   it’s just us figuring something out. ” There was a time, about 10 years ago, when this unassuming pair seemed to have it all figured out in their own quiet way. They had a   HBO series and two Top 20 albums, as well as a Grammy for an earlier EP. They also had (and still have) a bluntness about their careers  —   a lack of interest in familiar enticements like wealth and fame, if not an outright cynicism about the entertainment industry  —   that can be mistaken for their authentically   demeanors. So it was a shock to fans when, in 2009, Mr. Clement and Mr. McKenzie boldly walked away from their HBO series, “Flight of the Conchords,” which they produced in New York and starred in for two seasons. They put their partnership on pause and returned home to Wellington, New Zealand. “It basically stopped being fun,” Mr. McKenzie said. “It really wasn’t a decision about money. It was definitely a decision about enjoying our lives. ” Even in its absence, Flight of the Conchords continued to have an impact. The bohemian ethos of the HBO series has been carried forward in comedies like “Girls” and “Broad City” the homegrown   videos they specialized in have helped spawn a viral internet culture and become staples of   talk shows. Seven years later, the bandmates neither take credit for these developments nor feel that they missed out on them, and they say they are happy with their solo trajectories. Along with the gray hairs in their beards, they each now have wives and children. Mr. Clement has starred in movies like “Men in Black 3” and “The BFG,” and Mr. McKenzie won an Academy Award for a song he wrote for “The Muppets. ” On their present itinerary, they have nothing to figure out (except a few new songs) and nothing to promote (except themselves). They find themselves playing in bigger spaces than they wished to more admirers than they thought they had. “We wanted it to be a tour of small venues,” Mr. Clement said. “We thought interest would have dwindled enough that that’s all we’d be able to do. Then the management put us in places like this. ” (Their coming dates include Forest Hills Stadium in Queens, N. Y. on July 20, and SummerStage in Central Park on July 24.) While they are flattered to still have a following, they point out that Flight of the Conchords was intended, as Mr. Clement put it, “as a hobby and a side thing”  —   something to do, to help them reach the things they really wanted to be doing. “This was just our   project,” he said. “And then we had two songs. And then three. ” While Mr. Clement strummed absently at a guitar on his lap, Mr. McKenzie explained that the tour was a good way to get them to focus on writing new songs and spare them the mild indignity of relying on past hits. “Working at our own pace is not one of our strengths,” he said. “Louis C. K. goes off and makes something. We wouldn’t get ’round to it. ” This summer they have been trying out tunes about partying as tepid, timid   a duet that imagines Mr. Clement and Mr. McKenzie as a dysfunctional father and son and a   ballad about a   hombre who meets his doppelgänger. (Their repertoire still includes favorites like the dystopian death anthem “Robots” and the domestic sex jam “Business Time,” on which Mr. Clement whispers that Tuesday night is when “we go and visit your mother, but Wednesday night we make sweet, weekly love. ”) There are no immediate plans to record the new numbers for an album. “If someone wants to convince me to do it,” Mr. Clement said, “it would be from the angle of, ‘People want to hear it, and it would be selfish not to let them. ’” With a laugh, he added: “Even doing this interview, I was like, ‘Why are we doing an interview? ’” (They said they were told the Forest Hills show needed some extra promotion. “Pride is a good way to go,” Mr. McKenzie said. “That’s our weakness. ”) From the outset, when they met as students at Victoria University of Wellington and performed in a variety of comedy groups, Mr. Clement and Mr. McKenzie have walked a line between caring just enough about their work to do a good job and not caring at all. When Flight of the Conchords broke through in the early 2000s, at events like the Edinburgh Festival Fringe and the (now defunct) U. S. Comedy Arts Festival, it tapped into a sensibility seen in comedies like Larry David’s “Curb Your Enthusiasm” and Ricky Gervais’s “The Office. ” “There was this new wave of cringe humor, awkward humor, and stepping through that doorway were two of the most awkward people you’ve ever met,” said Rhys Darby, a New   comedian who often works with Mr. Clement and Mr. McKenzie. Where the spirit of Flight of the Conchords differed, Mr. Darby said, was: “There was no pessimism about it. It was more of a naïve happiness. They were from another world. ” A BBC radio program led to the HBO series, in which Mr. McKenzie and Mr. Clement played versions of themselves, two unsophisticated New Zealanders adrift in New York, and Mr. Darby played their hapless manager. But producing the HBO series, they said, was grueling  —   Mr. McKenzie said he counted a period of 110 days without a day off  —   even when they split their duties so Mr. Clement could rewrite scripts while Mr. McKenzie composed music. Having previously instructed their agents not to tell them how much HBO was offering them for renewals, they simply walked away from a potential third season. (Now they joke that they should have copied Dave Chappelle, who exited his popular “Chappelle’s Show” in  . “We should have done the third season, just taken the money and gone to Africa like Chappelle,” Mr. McKenzie said.) Friends of the band mates say they approached their hiatus with an intentional aimlessness. The humorist John Hodgman, who often performs with Flight of the Conchords, said, “The feeling I got was not that they were itching to see what else was out there for them, but they wanted to see how much less was available. ” The comedian Eugene Mirman, a frequent collaborator, said their individual successes had validated these explorations. “It’s not like they formed two solo bands  —   it’s more that they now do a variety of things,” Mr. Mirman said. “Bret won an Oscar. If that’s not enough, I don’t know what you believe someone’s solo career is supposed to be. ” This time out, Mr. Hodgman said, “They seem to be having a really good time. But for them to say they’re having a good time, in their weird New Zealand minds, would be bragging. So they would never say it. ” Mr. Clement and Mr. McKenzie each have a slate of personal assignments to keep busy: Mr. McKenzie is writing a film adaptation of the Neil Gaiman children’s book “Fortunately, the Milk,” and Mr. Clement is working on an unspecified TV project, happy not to be writing more music. “I just can’t handle being in a studio,” Mr. Clement said. “I like playing music live and not hearing the mistakes I’m making. ” (Mr. McKenzie, who has written songs for two   Muppet movies, said, “I’ve loved coming back and working on songs where you can swear. ”) Perhaps when the tour is over, Flight of the Conchords will be persuaded to play a   HBO concert special. Mr. Clement said, “Someone will come to us at the end and say either, ‘This is almost ready for the special,’ or ‘This is ready for the special. ’” But the band does not aspire to anything more ambitious. “We’re definitely not trying to get a TV show,” he said, with the most emphasis he’d used in the conversation. For now they were satisfied to be playing a show that can be as loose and   as they want, and nostalgic only for a time when they could play it smaller, sloppier and to fewer people. “There’s bits that we know don’t work, that we just haven’t gotten ’round to fixing,” Mr. McKenzie said. Mr. Clement added: “It’s hard to tell now. It’s easier in a small bar than it is here. Silence is more obvious in a small crowd. ”