United States prosecutors said on Friday that they had charged three executives at Takata, the Japanese auto parts maker, with fabricating test data to mask a fatal airbag defect, a striking turn in a case that set off the largest automotive recall in United States history. Prosecutors also announced that Takata had agreed to plead guilty to charges of wire fraud for providing the false data, a rare outcome for businesses accused of wrongdoing. The company, based in Tokyo, was also fined $1 billion. The guilty plea and fine had been widely expected, but the charges against the executives intensified a scandal that has roiled regulators, led to congressional hearings and brought the Japanese manufacturer to the brink of bankruptcy. The airbags, which can rupture violently when they deploy, have been linked to at least 11 deaths and more than 180 injuries in the United States. “They falsified and manipulated data because they wanted to make profits on their airbags, knowing they were creating risk for the   who are soccer moms like me,” Barbara L. McQuade, a United States attorney for the Eastern District of Michigan, said at a news conference in Detroit. “The risk they allowed is really reprehensible,” she said. “We want auto suppliers to know they have to put safety ahead of profits. Cheaters will not be allowed to gain a competitive advantage. ” The indictments are the latest moves by the outgoing Obama administration to come down harder on   crime, including guilty pleas from companies and charges against individual managers and executives. Federal prosecutors this week also charged six Volkswagen executives for their roles in an   scandal, and the automaker pleaded guilty to charges of conspiracy and other crimes. The efforts are seen as a departure from the years following the 2008 financial crisis, when not a single top bank executive went to prison, fueling a public outcry over the perception that Wall Street giants were “too big to jail. ” Takata’s executives are accused of especially egregious conduct. According to the indictment, the executives were at the center of efforts to manipulate airbag safety data that continued for as long as 15 years. They knew as early as 2000 that the airbags’ metal inflaters could explode, prosecutors said. But over the years, they routinely discussed falsifying those test results, discarding damaging information, an action referred to internally at Takata as “ ” the data, the indictment said. The New York Times has reported extensively, since 2014, on Takata’s tampering with its test results, as well as its early failure, along with its largest client, Honda, to alert regulators to the deadly defect. The Times also quoted former Takata engineers as saying that cost considerations drove some risky decisions about the airbags. “Ammonium nitrate was a highly combustible and unstable chemical compound,” the indictment said. “Takata, however, created and distributed its inflaters as a purportedly safe and stable variation. ” The executives, Shinichi Tanaka, Hideo Nakajima and Tsuneo Chikaraishi, were indicted by a grand jury in December. The accusations were unsealed on Friday. All three had worked for Takata in the United States and Japan until around 2015, prosecutors said. In one email, dated June 2005, Mr. Nakajima explained to colleagues, including Mr. Tanaka and Mr. Chikaraishi, that they had no choice but to manipulate test data and that they needed to “cross the bridge together,” the indictment said. “Takata will continue to cooperate fully with D. O. J. in connection with its ongoing investigation,” the company said in a statement, referring to the Justice Department. The three executives could not be reached for comment, and it was unclear who was acting as their legal representative. Neither the Justice Department nor Takata would provide any contact information. Mr. Nakajima’s name appears on various internal documents that have been unsealed as part of litigation against Takata, and he is often described as a liaison between Takata’s Japanese and American operations. He was formerly director of engineering at Takata’s research lab in Farmington Hills, Mich. Mr. Tanaka, the highest ranking of the three men, was formerly listed as an executive officer at Takata headquarters and the company’s chief director of procurement, as well as executive vice president of Takata’s global inflater operations. Mr. Chikaraishi also held various executive positions, including chief of airbag inflater operations for Japan and Asia. His name appears on numerous patent applications related to airbag technology filed in the United States. Ms. McQuade stressed that investigations were still underway. “We will continue to investigate and if we are able to identify additional individuals, we will charge them as well,” she said. In recent months, Takata has cooperated with the investigation, Ms. McQuade said, including identifying culpable individuals. Prosecutors took that cooperation into account in pursuing penalties, she said. Prosecutors said the three indicted executives were thought to live in Japan. If so, it is unclear whether they will face a court in the United States. Japan has an extradition treaty with the United States, but in practice the Japanese government has discretion over whether to comply with any extradition requests from the United States. Takata, however, has previously cooperated with authorities in this regard. In 2013, three other Takata executives agreed to plead guilty for their roles in a conspiracy to fix the prices of seatbelts sold in the United States. The executives also agreed to serve time in a United States prison. Pointing to that precedent, Ms. McQuade said she thought that the chances for an extradition were “pretty good. ” She added, “It’s not an automatic, but we’re going to work hard at it in this case. ” Even with the current administration’s newfound interest in going after corporate executives, criminal charges against individuals in a case involving automotive safety defects are rare. Prosecutors can struggle to surmount high legal standards and gaps in the oversight of carmakers  —   gaps that stem from nearly five decades of hard lobbying from the auto industry to beat back efforts to strengthen criminal penalties. These gaps do not exist in some other industries like pharmaceuticals or food. Senators Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut and Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts, Democrats who led congressional efforts to investigate Takata, called the Justice Department’s effort to hold executives accountable overdue. They also urged regulators to speed up efforts to fix affected cars. “The effort to protect drivers from Takata’s wrongdoing does not stop here,” they said in a joint statement. “We must recall every single vehicle with a Takata airbag,” they said, and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration “must accelerate the recall of these dangerous airbags to prevent yet another unnecessary and tragic death. ” Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx said regulators would “keep the pressure on Takata and the auto industry” to make sure recalls were carried out “quickly and efficiently as possible. ” Takata’s airbag recall in the United States has affected nearly 70 million airbags in 42 million vehicles. Takata also faces a   lawsuit filed by owners of cars fitted with Takata airbags, among other litigation. “It’s about time somebody is being held accountable,” said Corey Burdick, 28, a Florida father of two who was injured in an airbag explosion in a Honda Civic in 2014. He had been driving to his job as a forklift operator when he collided with another car, triggering his airbag, which exploded and sent a metal shard into his right eye. Mr. Burdick was left blind in that eye. He settled with Takata and Honda a year ago for an undisclosed sum. He questioned, however, why only Takata was taking the fall for a defect the car companies also knew about years ago. “I bought my car from Honda,” he said. “But I’m not going to be too harsh and hasty in my judgment. I’m just trying to live life the best that I can. ”