After a plodding program on Tuesday, the hall at the Republican National Convention was finally electric with energy on Wednesday night. But it wasn’t always the kind of energy a presidential nominee wants at the outset of a general election. Republican divisions were on colorful display and threatened to overshadow Mike Pence, the   nominee, who is well liked on the right. Our takeaways (and some of Wednesday’s best photos): He stuck to the script, reusing familiar lines and boiling down the Trump campaign’s message into a neat sales pitch. There was no swearing and no attacking other Republicans. In other words, Mr. Pence, the governor of Indiana, gave his speech like a career politician  —   and it worked. Mr. Pence, overshadowed by Donald J. Trump throughout the   rollout, used his first prominent solo performance to describe the 2016 election as a choice between a candidate of change (Mr. Trump) and “a stale agenda and the most predictable of names” in Hillary Clinton. He vouched for Mr. Trump’s moral character, calling him “the right man for these times. ” After two days of meandering speeches from obscure politicians and minor celebrities, Mr. Pence brought roars of enthusiasm from the crowd and set a high bar for Mr. Trump to clear, with his more freewheeling approach, on Thursday. The   in the Republican primaries, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, did not endorse Mr. Trump for president. He congratulated him on winning the Republican nomination but urged Americans only to vote their conscience in the fall. At one point, Mr. Cruz explicitly looked past the 2016 election. “We’re fighting not for one particular candidate or one campaign,” he said, but rather to tell the next generation, “We did our best for our future and our country. ” His speech earned rounds of angry booing in the room from the   crowd and only scattered chants of support from friendly delegations. But with a soaring address that touched on traditional   themes and praised the Republican Party’s historical role in ending slavery, Mr. Cruz staked out a position for himself as a premier torchbearer for conservative ideology  —   even in defiance of an unorthodox nominee. As Mr. Cruz gave a cold shoulder to Mr. Trump, other   speakers tried a range of rhetorical strategies to persuade skeptics to back him. Rick Scott, the governor of Florida, noted Mr. Trump’s shortcomings  —   “He can be a little rough”  —   before defending him as a friend. Scott Walker, the governor of Wisconsin, said that failing to support Mr. Trump was equivalent to endorsing Mrs. Clinton. Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, even repurposed Mr. Cruz’s words into a plea for unity. “Ted Cruz said you can vote your conscience for anyone who will uphold the Constitution,” he said. “In this election, there is only one candidate who will uphold the Constitution. ” In a united party, these exhortations would be unnecessary. And every minute of airtime devoted to cajoling reluctant conservatives was a minute not aimed at winning over swing voters for the general election. Trump advisers promised that the gathering in Cleveland would not be standard fare, but rather a “Trump convention. ” More precisely, it has been a Trump family convention. Traditional leaders like Mr. Walker and the House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, have been confined to earlier time slots. Leading off the crucial 10 p. m. hour have been members of Mr. Trump’s family: Donald Jr. regaled the audience on Tuesday with tales of his father’s business feats. On Wednesday, another son, Eric Trump, spoke of the   rehabilitation of Wollman Rink in Manhattan. The   schedule reflects Mr. Trump’s narrow comfort zone and his conviction that the best surrogates are blood relatives. But it also has the effect of playing down the support he has earned from establishment Republicans just when his circle of allies needs to grow.