We are domed. Or will be, at any rate, very soon. In case you have not heard, a   weather phenomenon called a “heat dome” is creeping across the country and is due to arrive in New York City just in time for the weekend. On paper, the heat dome will not be much different from “a stretch of hot, sticky days. ” It will be in the low 90s or the   on Friday, depending on which forecast you believe, and definitely muggy. It will be slightly hotter than that on Saturday, and then very slightly cooler during the week but still humid. But the weather people are calling it a dome. And domes are almost always bad. There’s Mad Max’s Thunderdome, where gladiators died. There’s the Houston Astrodome, one of the nation’s largest abandoned buildings  —   too big and expensive to be blown up. No one can figure out what to do with it. In   England, there was the Domesday Book, compiled by order of William the Conqueror. It was basically a gigantic  ’s list. His subjects hated it. And there’s the Public Enemy song “Welcome to the Terrordome,” which is a good song but it’s about a pretty   situation. A heat wave is just passing through. Wave hi! A dome sits there. And unless it is a stately   you probably do not want to be stuck inside it. Look what happened to the people in the Stephen King novel and resulting TV series “Under the Dome. ” In New York, “heat dome” brings to mind the steel climbing domes that were   installed in Brooklyn Bridge Park in 2010. They heated up in the sun. A lot. Toddlers got burned. There were lawsuits. The whole thing was a disaster. With this heat dome, the city is actually escaping the worst of it. The country’s midsection is getting domed something fierce. The heat index could hit the    in places like St. Louis and Oklahoma City, part of an area covering 40 million people that was under a heat alert on Wednesday. That is no joke. There have been further reports of a   mass stalled over Cleveland all week. That is a joke. So what, exactly, is a heat dome? It is essentially a bubble of high pressure that sits in the   to upper atmosphere and pushes warm air down toward the ground. The approaching one is notable for its size. Another thing you should know about the dome: Because it is a   mass, the air flows clockwise around it, so at the back of the air mass  —   like from 6 to 9 on a clock  —   the air flow is from south to north. So as the heat dome moves east across the country, it brings up hot, humid air from the Gulf of Mexico. In the Midwest, the heat dome’s effects will be compounded by an     phenomenon called “corn sweat. ” Corn sweat is the release of water from plant leaves into the air, also known as transpiration. That makes it even muggier. Like a jungle, except it’s a corn field. New York City has only a couple of very small corn fields, so we’re good on that. But we are an urban heat island, a place where   streets and buildings, and pollution, and all the people jammed together, can make it feel even hotter. Domed if you do, domed if you don’t. There’s no escape.