PHILADELPHIA  —   Follow along with our coverage of the Democratic National Convention. For all the noise, demonstrations, walkouts and silent protests, the divisions on display here as Democrats nominated Hillary Clinton for president do not appear to present a major threat to her candidacy, paling in contrast to intramural battles that have doomed nominees in the past and that threaten Donald J. Trump today. Even as Mr. Trump, the Republican presidential nominee, has sought to take advantage of the acrimony by appealing directly to the supporters of Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, Mrs. Clinton’s campaign has methodically used the first three days of this convention to win over those supporters. Almost on the hour, the lights in the convention hall have dimmed to present “Trump in His Own Words,” a series of short video clips that show Mr. Trump offering contentious views on, for example, women and pregnancy in the workplace, advertisements clearly aimed at Sanders backers at the gathering. “I don’t think it’s going to be a permanent division,” said Gov. Jerry Brown of California, a Democrat who lost his own bitter primary campaign for president against Bill Clinton in 1992 and whose state delegation has been a hotbed of Sanders support. “The stakes are high. The issues are very sharp. There will be a real convergence around the core ideas of the campaign. ” Despite a modest walkout after the roll call and a march on the convention hall by Sanders supporters as Mr. Clinton spoke on Tuesday, the convention has offered each night a broad   of the party leadership that has allied behind Mrs. Clinton: speeches of support from President Obama, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts and Howard Dean, whose 2004 candidacy for president recalls the one Mr. Sanders ran. “The Sanders people walked out last night  —   there were less than 100 of them!” Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Senate minority leader, said. Mr. Sanders was given a   speech to make the case to his supporters that it was time to rally behind Mrs. Clinton. At the behest of the Clinton campaign, he moved to nominate her by acclamation to make it appear unanimous, just as she had done for Barack Obama in 2008. Even before the convention began, polls showed that a substantial majority of Mr. Sanders’s backers said they would vote for Mrs. Clinton over Mr. Trump, and if history is any guide, those numbers will only grow as Election Day approaches. Todd Gitlin, a historian, said both parties have over the years faced divisions that were deeper and that festered through Election Day, including when Hubert Humphrey emerged from a Democratic primary contest with Eugene McCarthy and Robert F. Kennedy to lose to Richard M. Nixon in 1968, as well as when Barry Goldwater, after a divided Republican convention four years earlier, lost to Lyndon B. Johnson. The current Republican Party may also fall into that category, given how many powerful Republicans have refused to back Mr. Trump. “In 1968, the cleavage in the party was far deeper than it is now,” Mr. Gitlin said. “The hatred in the streets between the Humphrey supporters and the supporters of Kennedy and McCarthy was so intense. People like me didn’t vote. I don’t think we are looking at anything like that today. ” Which is not to say that this is going to be an easy walk down the aisle. In interviews, Democrats said they worried less about Sanders supporters voting for Mr. Trump than about them not turning out at all, or casting votes for, say, the Libertarian Party or Green Party candidates. “I think there will be some loss of votes to   candidates,” Stanley Greenberg, a Democratic pollster, said. Former President George Bush has long blamed his   defeat in 1992 on the   candidacy of Ross Perot. Ralph Nader, who ran for president in 2000 on a   line, cost Al Gore, a Democrat, the election against Mr. Bush’s son, in the view of many party members. Mr. Sanders’s support for Mrs. Clinton crystallized only recently. Well into the summer, he was still making a vigorous case against her  —   on issues like trade and what he described as her sympathies to Wall Street  —   drawing loud cheers and hardening opposition to Mrs. Clinton at his rallies. “Long after it was clear he was not going to be a nominee, he was attacking her as an instrument of Wall Street,” Mr. Greenberg said. The reconciliation was no doubt complicated even more this week when Gov. Terry McAuliffe of Virginia, a longtime adviser to the Clintons, strongly suggested to an interviewer that Mrs. Clinton would change her position again on the   Partnership Treaty and try to put it in effect once she was in the White House. Mr. Sanders has made opposition to the treaty, a pact with the United States and 11 other Pacific Rim nations, a central part of his campaign, forcing Mrs. Clinton, who once supported the treaty, to publicly disavow it. In this context, even a plea from Mr. Sanders to his supporters to embrace Mrs. Clinton may not be enough, at least for some of them. “She really needs to do actual concrete things to show that she recognizes what a dire situation our country and world is in,” said Lisa Flythe, a Sanders delegate from Brooklyn who works as a   representative. “She needs to take concrete actions to enact a progressive agenda from workers’ rights to eliminating T. P. P. ” At one point on Wednesday night, Sanders supporters, wearing green shirts and scattered across the hall, broke into loud chants of “No more war,” drowning out Leon E. Panetta, who was the director of the Central Intelligence Agency and the defense secretary under Mr. Obama, as he praised Mrs. Clinton’s foreign policy credentials. Still, some of Mr. Sanders’s supporters said that given the choice, they were ready to support her. “I think it’s appropriate to tell the Bernie supporters to support Hillary because of the alternative,” said Taz Tally, a Democratic delegate from Homer, Alaska, “and in my view, if you choose not to vote, it’s basically a vote for Mr. Trump, which is scary. ” Governor Brown, who endorsed Mrs. Clinton in the final days of the Democratic primary in California, said he did not think people who voted for Mr. Sanders would support Mr. Trump. “Trump is too antithetical to anything that Sanders people talk about,” he said. “There’s a similarity on trade, but immigration, the N. R. A. Trump is a real outlier. And while he picked up the nomination of the Republican Party, he’s not close to the mainstream that would make crossover likely from Democrats to Republicans. ” In the end, the party divisions appear to be, as they have been through much of the campaign, as generational as they are ideological. “There will continue to be a hard left, some of whom are naïve,” Mr. Gitlin, the historian, said, referring to Sanders backers. “They are young. This is their first crusade. They feel betrayed. They were true believers: They believed that Bernie was the man and Bernie was transformative. They were in this for victory. The feeling of betrayal is very real. ”