PHILADELPHIA  —   Hillary Clinton stepped into history. Her daughter, Chelsea, lent a hand. And supporters of Bernie Sanders packed up their signs, some of his admirers still unmoved by Mrs. Clinton as the clock ran out on the Democratic National Convention. Our takeaways from the convention’s final night: Bill Clinton took pains this week to cast his wife as a “change maker. ” You will not hear Mrs. Clinton object. But under the brightest spotlight of an election brimming with outsider fervor  —   powering Donald J. Trump to the Republican nomination and Mr. Sanders to unexpected success  —   Mrs. Clinton presented herself as something different. She is a creature of the system and unapologetic about her résumé. “Sometimes the people at this podium are new to the national stage,” she said, preparing to tick off her many titles. “I am not one of those people. ” It is a gambit premised in part on her atypical Republican opponent  —   and a hope that promises of incremental change might sound more palatable when the alternative is viewed as truly dangerous. “I sweat the details,” Mrs. Clinton said. Voters might not. But she is betting, at least, that they think someone should. Demonstrations inside and outside the convention hall this week made clear that Mrs. Clinton had some work to do to persuade at least some   supporters of Mr. Sanders. On Thursday, she seemed to acknowledge as much, quickly addressing them directly with a simple message: I hear you. “Your cause is our cause,” she said, thanking Mr. Sanders for placing issues of economic and social justice “front and center, where they belong. ” Total unity has been elusive, and could remain so. As Mrs. Clinton accepted the nomination, some Sanders delegates stood   occasionally booing or silently protesting. During the Republican primary race, Mr. Trump’s proposed ban on Muslim immigration appeared to do nothing but help at the polls, even as rivals objected with varying degrees of outrage. Democrats appear convinced they can win the argument among the wider electorate. And they may have found their most potent voice: Khizr Khan, an American Muslim whose son, Humayun S. M. Khan, was killed in Iraq. In a stirring address, his stoicism building to a controlled simmer, Mr. Khan challenged Mr. Trump on behalf of “patriotic American Muslims” everywhere. “You have sacrificed nothing,” Mr. Khan said, his wife standing silently beside him, “and no one. ” For organizers, the choice to showcase Mr. Khan amounted to a pointed dare: Are these people not American enough for you, Mr. Trump? Mr. Trump has presented himself as something of a     plan, arguing that he is the lone force standing between the United States and   dystopia. Republican leaders have accused Democrats of giving terrorism issues short shrift in Philadelphia. But as Thursday’s slate made clear, Mrs. Clinton’s team believes that Mr. Trump, with his scattershot defense policies and often erratic statements, has supplied an opportunity. For much of the evening, matters of public safety took center stage, with testimony from a retired Marine general  —   to chants of “U. S. A. !”  —   a Texas sheriff and the relatives of fallen officers. It was consistent with a theme of the week: No presumed Republican motif  —   from an emphasis on national defense to conspicuous invocations of faith to warm quotations of Ronald Reagan  —   is safe from Democratic encroachment in the age of Trump. In her presidential runs, Mrs. Clinton has at times struggled with how, and how often, to highlight her gender. No more. First Chelsea Clinton paid tribute to her maternal compassion, saying that Mrs. Clinton’s own mother would be proud. Then Mrs. Clinton, calling herself “my mother’s daughter and my daughter’s mother,” stopped to cheer her nomination as “a milestone in our nation’s march toward a more perfect union. ” There is a risk in turning off male voters, with whom she has fared poorly in surveys. Mrs. Clinton argued explicitly that they, too, had a stake in her success, whether or not they recognized it. “When any barrier falls in America,” she said, “it clears the way for everyone. ”