The bipartisan commission responsible for arranging presidential debates on Sunday rebuffed Donald J. Trump’s complaints that two of the three debates were scheduled to take place during pro football games, after Mr. Trump hedged about whether he would still participate. The Commission on Presidential Debates made the schedule last September after consulting with officials in both parties. The first two debates conflict with National Football League games: on Monday, Sept. 26 (Atlanta Falcons vs. New Orleans Saints) and Sunday, Oct. 9 (Giants vs. Green Bay Packers). A third presidential debate is scheduled for Wednesday, Oct. 19, and a   debate is set for Tuesday, Oct. 4. The commission stood by its decision, saying it “selects the debate dates a year in advance in order for the television networks to have maximum lead time and predictability in scheduling these extremely important civic education forums,” and added that it “believes the dates for the 2016 debates will serve the American public well. ” In an interview with ABC’s “This Week” shown on Sunday, Mr. Trump accused Hillary Clinton of wanting to minimize the audience for the debates, saying her campaign had tried to do the same for debates with Senator Bernie Sanders during the Democratic primaries  —   and suggested that football fans should view her skeptically. “Hillary Clinton wants to be against the N. F. L. ,” Mr. Trump said. Separately, Reince Priebus, the chairman of the Republican National Committee, expressed support on Sunday for Mr. Trump’s position, despite the party having agreed to the debate schedule last fall. “Certainly, we’re not going to agree with anything that our nominee doesn’t agree with,” Mr. Priebus said on CBS’s “Face the Nation. ” And Paul Manafort, the Trump campaign chairman, said on “Face the Nation” that he planned to “sit down with the commission in the next week or so” to make sure the debates “have a broad audience. ” But in a statement issued a short time later, the Commission on Presidential Debates said it had started planning the schedule 18 months ago and had worked to pick dates that would avoid holidays, baseball playoff games, N. F. L. games and other events that would compete for voters’ attention. “It is impossible to avoid all sporting events, and there have been nights on which debates and games occurred in most election cycles,” it said in a statement. “A debate has never been rescheduled as a result. ” The Clinton campaign, when asked for a statement on Sunday, directed reporters to a tweet sent by John Podesta, the campaign chairman. “This is just more Trump debate malarkey,” Mr. Podesta wrote. “We will be at the debates set by the bipartisan debate commission and expect he will too. ”