Washington (CNN) The House of Representatives will not vote on health care this week, despite a White House attempt to revive a health care reform package ahead of President Donald Trump’s 100th day in office. ”We are not voting on health care this week,” House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy told reporters late Thursday. Hours before a Friday deadline, Congress was working to pass a   spending bill to avoid a government shutdown while they worked on a broader deal to fund agencies through September. Republicans were readying to pass the   funding bill on their own after Democrats, who tend to back these   bills, threatened to oppose it if Republicans did in fact move a fresh Obamacare repeal bill. A top Democrat    House Minority Whip Steny Hoyer    issued a statement Thursday morning saying he would advise his fellow Democrats to oppose the   bill if Republicans tried to pass their latest version of health care reform. On Thursday, Republicans had reached new agreements within their own caucus to improve their chances of passing their health care bill    but ultimately decided against bringing it to the floor this week. The   government funding bill, planned for a vote Friday, must be passed by midnight to keep federal agencies open through May 5.  House Speaker Paul Ryan said at a news conference that the House would act when Republicans feel they ”have the votes” to pass their bill, though he gave no indication of a time frame. House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi wouldn’t directly confirm whether there was a Democratic strategy underway to block the   bill. She said her party was still pushing to resolve ”outstanding areas of concern” in the   bill, but she insisted Democrats ”don’t even have the power” to shut down the government. The uncertainty has spread renewed alarm on Capitol Hill after tensions had already eased earlier in the week. Following President Donald Trump’s decision to scrap certain demands over health care spending and the proposed border wall, progress appeared to be in the works. In anticipation of the   spending bill from the House, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell tried to get unanimous consent agreement Thursday night to pass it ahead of time.  But, playing some hardball, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer objected.   He said Republicans must first agree to remove ”poison pill” riders    or amendments that have    bipartisan support    in the   bill before getting an agreement to pass a   bill.  He did this to try to put pressure on GOP negotiators to cut a deal, according to a Democratic leadership aide. While talks will continue, senators who wanted to leave town for the weekend will have to stay in Washington Friday and possibly vote on this   bill sometime before the midnight deadline. In the meantime, negotiators in both parties are close to an agreement on a much larger,   spending package that would wrap several funding measures for different agencies into one giant bill. The goal is to pass the omnibus bill during the   extension, but differences remain and leaders of the House and Senate Appropriations Committees are still haggling over the final points    with input from bipartisan leadership and the White House.  Ryan said Thursday he was ”confident” the government would keep running, but placed any threat of a shutdown on Democrats. ”I would be shocked that they’d want to see a government shutdown,” Ryan said referring to Democrats during a news conference when asked about Hoyer’s comments. The speaker blamed Democrats for the lack of a spending deal, saying they were ”dragging their feet” and in some cases failed to show up for meetings about the spending bill. At about the same time Hoyer made his threat, Schumer was on the floor praising the talks and vowing to work to keep the government open. ”There are a few remaining issues to be settled,” he said. ”But I believe that there we are close to a final agreement.  Our side will continue to work in good faith to see that an agreement is reached to keep the government open by tomorrow’s deadline.” Like Pelosi, Schumer also wouldn’t say whether he was pushing the same threat as Hoyer. He said he doesn’t believe Republicans should try to rush ”through a health care bill in the dark of night,” but when pressed whether he’d urge Senate Democrats to try to block the   bill, he demurred. ”We’re not up to that yet,” he said in a press conference, holding his hand up. At the same time, Trump unleashed a tweetstorm Thursday putting pressure on Democrats and blasting them for what he described as untenable demands on a range of issues from national parks to health benefits for coal miners. While waiting for a deal to be struck, Republican senators munched on lazy lobster and Maine potatoes with blueberry pie for dessert at a luncheon in the Capitol put on by Maine’s Susan Collins.  Republican senators rotate sponsoring a lunch for their colleagues    each with food themes from their states    and Collins’ lobster offering is considered one of the most popular.   of the 52 Republican senators were on hand.