For months, Chief James P. O’Neill was the man in the blue uniform with four gold stars standing, shoulders square, just behind Police Commissioner William J. Bratton in his pressed suits and Hermès ties. On Tuesday, Chief O’Neill stepped to the center: Mayor Bill de Blasio announced that he would become the next commissioner of the New York Police Department after Mr. Bratton steps down next month. The   uniformed officer in the department, Chief O’Neill, 58, has become an increasingly familiar face on the local news, around the city and at City Hall, ready at news conferences and in private meetings with answers for his boss or the mayor. They often summon him with a familiar call, using just his first name. “I always call him Jimmy,” Mr. de Blasio, a Democrat, said while inviting him to the lectern on Tuesday. Chief O’Neill began his career in 1983, in the old Transit Police, and is steeped in the city’s policing culture. Yet as Mr. de Blasio took office vowing to reform many embattled and longstanding police practices, such as stop, question and frisk, Chief O’Neill was also among those eager to embrace change, spearheading the department’s effort at a new incarnation of neighborhood policing. “I know exactly how valuable and how fragile it is at times, this relationship between law enforcement and the community actually is,” he said on Tuesday at the City Hall announcement. “This is truly a shared effort and shared responsibility. ” It was Chief O’Neill who sent a team of officers to Los Angeles to study that city’s community policing program, which influenced the plans the New York Police Department was developing to foster better   relations. He has been at the helm in overseeing security planning for major events, like the annual session of the United Nations General Assembly and the visit last year of Pope Francis. For months, Chief O’Neill’s public profile has been growing as Mr. Bratton appeared to be grooming him to be the face of the department. The two men met in 1990, when Mr. Bratton came to New York from Boston to take over the Transit Police and Mr. O’Neill was a young supervisor running its video unit. Mr. Bratton used the unit to hone his image within the department, producing videos for the rank and file, and producing commercials and public service messages for the public. When Mr. Bratton returned and was reunited with Mr. O’Neill, it was a reunion of mutual benefit. After languishing for nearly a decade as a deputy chief under Raymond W. Kelly, the commissioner at the time, Chief O’Neill was promoted twice in short order by Mr. Bratton, first to chief of patrol and then to chief of department. It was a remarkable career turn for Chief O’Neill, who had been pushed out of his post as the commander of the department’s narcotics operations after an internal sting operation found officers paying informants with drugs. Chief O’Neill was one of several commanders transferred amid the scandal, which led prosecutors to dismiss many cases involving the officers implicated. The last two years have been quite different. Commissioner Bratton and Chief O’Neill have enjoyed a warm relationship, with Mr. Bratton occasionally teasing Chief O’Neill at news conferences. Those lighter moments  —   including on Tuesday when Mr. Bratton ribbed Chief O’Neill about his baldness  —   elicit the friendlier side of a chief who can seem, with his starched uniform and military bearing, to be distant and cool. Some elected officials have said that they worked well with Chief O’Neill as chief of department. Representative Hakeem Jeffries, an advocate of criminal justice reform, described the chief as “very qualified, personable and  . ” “Chief O’Neill is a good man, who has always had an   relationship with leaders of diverse backgrounds throughout the city,” Mr. Jeffries, a Brooklyn Democrat, said on Tuesday. Late last month, when Mr. Bratton said in an interview with The New York Times that he would be leaving the department before the start of a potential second term for Mr. de Blasio, he talked openly about his admiration for Chief O’Neill and suggested that the chief would be a worthy successor. On Tuesday, the mayor made that a reality. In an earlier interview, Chief O’Neill also said he admired Mr. Bratton’s touch  —   making officers feel that they are being listened to and trusted. “Obviously, he wants cops to do a great job. But he also wants them to feel good about themselves and to have that sense of fulfillment,” Chief O’Neill said of Mr. Bratton in January. “That is different from the prior administration. ” As the news came out on Tuesday morning, a group of uniformed officers from various Bronx precincts who had assembled at an outdoor   session greeted the shift with enthusiasm. “He rose through the ranks, that’s for sure,” Officer Dan Conti, of the 47th Precinct, said as he stood with colleagues near the Grand Concourse. Others nodded. “He’s a pretty good boss,” Officer Conti added. Chief O’Neill’s ascension is unusual. Thomas Repetto, author of a history of the department, said a chief of department had not been promoted to commissioner in more than four decades. Rather, mayors have typically reached further down in the leadership, or more often outside the department, for new commissioners. Before moving into senior posts, Chief O’Neill served as a commander of three precincts: the 25th in East Harlem, the 44th in the Bronx and Central Park. He knows what it is like to face high crime and thousands of homicides a year. But now, with crime boiled down to much lower levels, he has embraced the shifts the administration has wrought: focusing on people, places and conditions that drive crime. “Fighting crime is what we get paid to do,” Chief O’Neill said in January. “But we can’t do that unless we have the backing of the community. Unless we have that connectivity, it’s not going to work. ” As he spoke on Tuesday in City Hall’s Blue Room, Chief O’Neill, who is separated and has two sons in their 20s, faced his mother, who sat in the front row. He choked up, recalling the advice she gave while he was growing up, one of seven siblings in the East Flatbush neighborhood of Brooklyn. “To be a sound and moral man,” his mother, Helen O’Neill, told reporters afterward. “And to always do the right thing, and he has. ” Ms. O’Neill said she was in awe of her son, who likes Irish soda bread,   motorcycle rides and discussing with her the books he has read. “He’s more than what you see,” she said.