Since its release last month, “Ghostbusters,” the reboot of the 1984 action comedy updated with a cast of female leads, has conjured up a series of heated debates about how women are depicted in movies and how they are treated online and in social media. The film has also shined a spotlight on Kate McKinnon, the comic actress who plays the “Ghostbusters” team member Dr. Jillian Holtzmann, a   scientist and technology whiz who hides a mischievous sense of humor behind a pair of goggle glasses, a trench coat and a deadpan delivery. Playing off celebrated   like Melissa McCarthy and Kristen Wiig, she is able to steal even the scenes in which she has no dialogue with just a gaudy grimace or a roll of her eyes. As Manohla Dargis wrote in her review of “Ghostbusters” for The New York Times, Ms. McKinnon “makes for a sublime nerd goddess,” bringing “a dash of the young Jerry Lewis to the role with a glint of Amy Poehler. ” Like her cinematic counterpart, Ms. McKinnon, 32, seems to have been hiding in plain sight. A Long Island native and Columbia University graduate, she has become an integral cast member at “Saturday Night Live,” where, over five seasons, she has delivered reliably eccentric impersonations of Hillary Clinton, Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Angela Merkel, as well as a roster of oddball celebrities, foreigners and barflies. She received her fourth Emmy nomination in July and is poised for the kind of career breakout enjoyed by her “S. N. L. ” predecessors and personal heroes like Tina Fey, Ms. Poehler and Ms. Wiig. Not that Ms. McKinnon thinks of herself this way. “I pride myself on being tragically uncool,” she explained in an interview on Tuesday. “I’m wearing cat socks right now,” she said in her dry,   drawl. “But I’m wearing them just for the utilitarian purpose of wearing socks. ” Over lunch at a vegan restaurant in Manhattan, she spoke about her “Ghostbusters” experience and the distinctions she draws between her characters and herself. These are edited excerpts from the conversation. You made such specific choices in your portrayal of Holtzmann. How did you approach the role? I just wanted to make a character who was very alien but so joyful and earnest and fascinated by the world that you would relate to her anyway. In the script, there were these moments where she would be talking so lackadaisically about an extraordinarily lethal piece of equipment. I thought, what sort of a person could let that terror slide off her shoulders? But I noticed that I underreact in a similar way, in a lot of situations. How so? In most combat scenarios, I find that I’m pretty steady. [laughs] No, seriously. “S. N. L. ” can be a stressful environment, and I am panicking constantly, but I guess I keep it pretty internal. Because I’ve been told that I seem  . Did you consult with any   scientists? I’ve been a big astrophysics nut since I was 12. I have always had a real soft spot for the bizarreness of quantum mechanics. But I gave up on being a scientist in high school  —   I’m just not that good at math. So that ticks me off, that I’ve limited myself and my life choices in that way. I will never be a theoretical physicist. Who devised her wardrobe and hairstyle?  The costume designer, Jeffrey Kurland, had gotten all these wacky things, and when I saw them initially, I thought, this is way too cool. I wanted to be the plainest of the plain. But then I rationalized it by saying that, to her, it’s not even cool. She just has these objects and throws them on. The hair was a collaboration between me and Brenda McNally, my hairstylist. I was like, what hair would a person who doesn’t care about an exploding nuclear reactor have? Probably Tilda Swinton’s hair. Some people who have seen the movie believe that Holtzmann is gay. Do you have any thoughts on her sexuality? No. I’m so sorry. Do you think it’s significant that moviegoers who don’t see themselves represented onscreen are identifying with her? I wanted Holtzmann to be a general champion for the disenfranchised and the other. And I hope that she appeals to anyone who feels like that. Leslie Jones, your “Ghostbusters” and “S. N. L. ”   nearly quit Twitter after she became the target of intense online abuse. Did you speak to her during this period? She did text, and she was deeply, deeply disturbed and upset. As anyone would be. I said that I love her and she’s gorgeous. And she should get off Twitter. [chuckles] But that’s not a solution. “Just don’t read it” is not a solution. You don’t have a social media presence  —   I imagine that didn’t change your mind? Even when Facebook came out and I was in college, I found myself never putting anything on it. It just feels unnatural to me to broadcast anything other than the character I’ve created. You’re very modest in person, yet you play many    characters. Where do they come from, I wonder? You and my therapist. [laughs] There must be some exhibitionist tendency that I funnel into these other people. I think it comes from wanting to share and to connect, to offer up for display something that I find delightful and fascinating. I hope that if other people feel the same way then we’ve made a connection. That’s the way I feel most comfortable connecting. Are you paying close attention to the presidential election to gather more material on Hillary Clinton? I’m following it because we’re at a real moment right now. But also because I feel very connected to her, in a strange way. I spend so many hours studying her and imagining her inner life that I feel like we’re very close. Even though I don’t have her phone number. Did you feel that when you appeared in an “S. N. L. ” sketch with her last season? She was very warm and charming and sincere. And I liked being around her, and I felt a similarity to her, in that I am a very accomplished legal scholar and have spent my life crusading for the middle class. Have you ever met Justice Ginsburg?  No, ay yi yi. What I wouldn’t do. I’d crawl in that robe and never leave. Are you already thinking about “S. N. L. ” starting up in the fall? Yes, I think it’s a good time to be a comedian. Some people look at movies and think, oh my gosh, that’s so amazing. But to me, I look at a politician or a scientist and think, they’re creating the content of humanity. I can’t believe I get to even comment on this in some small way. This whole year, with Larry [David] as Bernie [Sanders] and me getting to play Hillary was, like, the closest I’ll ever come to being involved in something that’s as important as politics or science. Comedy has become, I think, a very important branch of public intellectualism. But it still ain’t Washington. Will you go back to “S. N. L. ” with more visibility because of all the praise you’ve received this summer? That would be hellish. What makes this current cast so strong is that there’s fairly equitable distribution of real estate within the show, and everyone has such a different voice and really gets to use that. It feels like a real ensemble. Before getting hired there, I did mostly   shows, and I liked being the only weird one onstage. But that gets old real fast, not just for me but for people watching. Has there been any talk of a “Ghostbusters” sequel? I haven’t heard. I haven’t been doing that much. I literally don’t know what I did the last two weeks. I know that I had a consultation about window dressings with a lady who was very knowledgeable. That took up a big part of my psychic energy. What would be your dream role to play? My manager asks me this every day, and I don’t quite have the answer. What I want is to play as many as possible. I really like collections of things. I love antique botanical prints with a bunch of different weeds and seeds. I love the produce section at the grocery store. A panoply of gorgeous, fascinating distinct objects with a common theme, is what I would love to build for the rest of my career, as long as they’ll have me.