PORTLAND, Me.  —   Facing urgent calls to stabilize his candidacy and declining poll numbers, Donald J. Trump struggled on Thursday to refocus his message after threatening to withhold his endorsement from top Republican officeholders, including Paul D. Ryan, the speaker of the House. Snarling Mr. Trump’s efforts to move past the controversy, he and his running mate, Gov. Mike Pence of Indiana, broke ranks for the second time in two days on questions of party unity. Having already split with Mr. Trump over his refusal to endorse Mr. Ryan, Mr. Pence went his own way again Thursday, telling WTKR, a television news station in Norfolk, Va. that he supported senators running for   whom Mr. Trump had snubbed, John McCain of Arizona and Kelly Ayotte of New Hampshire. Mr. Pence at first gave an equivocal answer on Thursday regarding the senators. But when asked by the television station to clarify whether he supported them, he said, “Well of course I support John McCain and Kelly Ayotte and all of our Republican incumbents. ” In his own travels, Mr. Trump was frustrated in his effort to go back on the offensive with an audacious foray into Maine, a solidly Democratic state in presidential elections. Visiting Portland, a liberal downstate city, Mr. Trump was repeatedly interrupted by young demonstrators brandishing   copies of the Constitution  —   a reference to Khizr Khan, the father of an American soldier killed in Iraq, who charged during the Democratic National Convention last week that Mr. Trump had never read the document. Mr. Trump’s campaign has been in crisis for a full week, since his criticism of the Khan family set off a war of words between Mr. Trump and a host of Republicans who have repudiated his comments. There were only scattered signs of healing on Thursday between Mr. Trump and the party he nominally leads. There is mounting pressure on Mr. Trump to regain his footing in the race and repair some of the damage he has sustained in swing states. Trailing Hillary Clinton in national polls, Mr. Trump has also fallen badly behind in a battery of   surveys released over the course of the week. He trailed Mrs. Clinton by 6 percentage points in Florida, according to a Suffolk University poll, and by 11 points in Pennsylvania in a poll taken by Franklin  Marshall College. Polls by local television stations in New Hampshire and Michigan found Mr. Trump well behind Mrs. Clinton in both states. This dire polling may further undermine Mr. Trump’s deteriorating relationship with Republicans in Washington. Mr. Trump played down the friction between him and Mr. Ryan at a campaign stop here on Thursday, calling Mr. Ryan a “good guy” and discouraging a supportive crowd from booing Mr. Ryan’s name. In turn, Mr. Ryan said he continued to support Mr. Trump, calling it a matter of respect for the will of the voters. Mr. Trump also projected feisty optimism during the visit to Maine, one of two states with the practice of awarding their Electoral College votes based on the popular vote in each congressional district. Mr. Trump said that some people believed that he could pick up a single Electoral College vote in the northernmost of the state’s two districts. But in an auditorium in Portland’s City Hall, Mr. Trump said he was hopeful about turning the whole state red for the first time since 1988. “We have such incredible people up here,” he said. “We have people that like Donald Trump. ” He drew rounds of applause with   riffs about keeping dangerous refugees out of the United States and building a wall on the border with Mexico. Attacking President Obama for arranging a large financial payment to Iran, Mr. Trump described seeing a video of a plane landing in Iran bearing cash in several currencies  —   even though there is no evidence that such a video exists. (At a news conference shortly after, Mr. Obama denounced criticism by Mr. Trump and others of the payments.) Mr. Trump told supporters that Mr. Pence had come to seek his permission before endorsing Mr. Ryan. “He said, ‘I like him, he’s a friend of mine, would you mind if I endorsed him, and I will not do it if you say no,’” Mr. Trump said. “I say, ‘Mike, you like him? Yes. Go ahead and do it. ” Yet Mr. Trump found a turbulent reception inside and outside the hall, where a crowd of demonstrators assembled. Several held up signs describing Mr. Trump as a fascist, and a few women held placards quoting Margaret Chase Smith, a Maine senator who vocally opposed Joseph McCarthy in the 1950s. During his remarks, Mr. Trump drew interruptions from the demonstrators who silently held up miniature copies of the Constitution, some of them with the logo of the American Civil Liberties Union on the back. As they were escorted out, the protesters faced jeers from Mr. Trump’s supporters several said they had been jostled or had their pocket Constitutions snatched away. Julia Legler, one of more than a dozen demonstrators, said the group objected to “Islamophobic,   garbage” emanating from the Trump campaign. She said their inspiration was Mr. Khan. “The goal was to make a statement, support Khizr Khan and, honestly, expose that Trump supporters have no ideas what they are talking about,” said Ms. Legler, 24. Mr. Trump was dismissive of the protest, calling it “sort of rude. ” As the crowd chanted over the demonstrators, Mr. Trump said several times in a weary tone, “Do whatever you want. ” As Mr. Trump’s candidacy has come under intensifying strain this week, he has sharpened his attacks on Mrs. Clinton, at times wielding unusually barbed language, even by the standards of his campaign. In Pennsylvania on Monday, Mr. Trump described the Democratic nominee as “the devil. ” And in Maine, Mr. Trump responded with approval when his top supporter in the state, Gov. Paul LePage, whipped up the crowd in a speech branding Mrs. Clinton “the queen of corruption. ” “We need to reject corrupt politicians,” Mr. LePage said. “We need to reject  . We need to make sure that we, the people of this country, defeat the queen of corruption. ” Joining Mr. LePage onstage, Mr. Trump responded enthusiastically. “I think,” he said, “we are going to have to use that. ”