Collin Bond had no intention of buying a $1, 400 Thermador warming drawer when he and his wife, Ashley, popped into the Habitat for Humanity ReStore in New Rochelle, N. Y. in the spring of 2015. But when he spotted one at the nonprofit   store for the   price of $50, he immediately scooped it up. No matter that the couple were living in a rental in Downtown Brooklyn and had only just begun their search for a Westchester County   in earnest. “I didn’t have a place to put it at the time, but I took it,” said Mr. Bond, 36, an associate broker at Douglas Elliman in Manhattan, who had an idea of how expensive the drawer normally was from his work in the industry. “Fifty dollars, that’s crazy!” he said, recalling his thoughts at the time. “I wonder what else I can do?” Ms. Bond, 31, who works in public relations for the home and design industry, approved. “I honestly didn’t see the need for a warming drawer, but liked the way he was thinking. ” And so, with his wife’s blessing and a warming drawer in the trunk of his car, Mr. Bond began his quest for a   kitchen on the cheap. It wasn’t long before he spotted a Wolf microwave, normally at least $1, 000, for $200 on Craigslist and found himself at the warehouse of the seller, a contractor in New Jersey who works on luxury developments. In chatting with the contractor, Mr. Bond learned that many of the   developers he worked with would replace all the appliances in model apartments with new ones once the apartments had sold  —   even though the “old” ones may have been used just to boil tea or store bottled water for visitors to the building. “He was basically telling me, ‘I’m paying an assistant to list these,’” Mr. Bond said. “I told him, ‘Just give me a call next time. ’” About a month later, Mr. Bond’s phone rang and he was back in New Jersey with a rented   and a hand truck, picking up an $7, 400   wine refrigerator for $1, 000 from the same man. Mr. Bond paid some members of the contractor’s construction crew $20 each to help him load it. With his collection of discount kitchen appliances growing, Mr. Bond invested in a small storage unit, paying around $150 a month. Now his search became strategic. To match his newly acquired wine refrigerator, a    integrated model, Mr. Bond created alerts on Craigslist for a corresponding       with the same width, depth and height, normally $7, 540. Soon, he had a Craigslist ad in his inbox posted by a contractor who was renovating a house in Westchester for clients who wanted a change in style. “It was a relatively new kitchen,” Mr. Bond said. But according to the contractor, he added, “The people who had bought it were like, ‘We don’t like this kitchen we just want a new kitchen. ’” Mr. Bond showed up with cash in hand,   in tow. “I went in there for one fridge and ended up negotiating and getting two fridges and the dishwasher,” he said. He paid $2, 400 for the lot, down from about $3, 000. To ensure that the appliances worked, he asked the sellers to have them up and running before he arrived. “I’d make sure I’d call them and say, ‘I’m going to meet you at 2 p. m. on Wednesday. Can you please make sure it’s plugged in and at temperature when I get there? ’” Not everything went flawlessly. After being transported to the storage unit, the wine refrigerator wouldn’t hold the proper temperature in one of its zones. “Something had become disconnected,” said Mr. Bond, who paid a local repairman $200 to fix it. But with   refrigerators normally selling for as much as $8, 000, he figured, “If I’m buying it for $1, 000 and I put another $1, 500 into it  —   that’s still an incredible savings. ” But there was still the matter of finding a new home to house all the fancy appliances. “We really wanted something that we could make our own,” said Mr. Bond, who worked in carpentry in high school and as a general contractor during summers between college. “We were looking for something we could put some sweat equity into. ” That summer, they found their  : a     prewar apartment in Scarsdale, N. Y. “The place was    white carpet, which was horrendous,” Mr. Bond said. “I think it had actually been a pink carpet that had just gotten bleached over the years, because when we moved the dining room table, there was a pink ring under it. ” Mirrored wall panels in the living room had been painted over, and the appliances hadn’t been upgraded since the 1980s. “We just saw a lot of potential,” Mr. Bond said. Underneath the old carpet, there were beautiful oak floors, and the walls that boxed off the kitchen, living and dining rooms could come down. Not to mention that the place cost about a quarter of what it would have in Brooklyn. They closed on the apartment in July 2015, paying about $240, 000, and immediately began renovating the kitchen, a process that took about five months. Mr. Bond acted as the general contractor, filing for permits and finding subcontractors to build out their vision. A family friend drew up the plans based on the appliances Mr. Bond had in storage. But his obsession with Craigslist did not end. In search of an elusive Miele espresso maker and Viking range, he checked his emails nightly. He admitted he was getting a little carried away when he decided they should buy a   range he found online, although they had already agreed on a   model. “My wife was like, ‘We don’t need that big of a stove in our kitchen. As it is, we have three refrigerators. This is not a commercial kitchen. ’” Putting it more mildly, she added: “He had the best of intentions, but I had to reel him in on the   range, because it just didn’t fit and we would have had to rework all of our cabinet sizes. ” Mr. Bond ended up buying a   Viking (normally $5, 000) for $1, 500, even though it was set up for propane and their apartment uses natural gas. To salvage the deal, he picked up a conversion kit for about $50 at a local hardware store and did the installation himself after watching a video on YouTube. Then, just as he had resigned himself to drinking regular coffee, a Craigslist alert landed in his inbox for a Miele espresso maker that normally sold for $3, 500. “A really, really sweet couple” who happened to live nearby were selling it for $500, he said. To find out if it worked, Mr. Bond asked them to make him a cup of coffee, but an error message kept popping up on the espresso maker’s display. Mr. Bond left without the machine, but called a few repair shops and learned that it could be fixed for $300. He returned, offered the couple $200 and it was his. In all, the Bonds paid about $6, 000 for their kitchen appliances, including repairs. Purchased new, the same appliances would have cost roughly $35, 000. Dinner parties are a regular event in their new home, and all three refrigerators are put to use. Although, Mr. Bond admitted, “It’s all a little overkill  —   I feel like a food hoarder. ” And the warming drawer that started the whole thing? It was one of the best purchases they made, Ms. Bond said. “We use it every time we have a group of people over. ”