Three prominent universities were sued on Tuesday, accused of allowing their employees to be charged excessive fees on their retirement savings. The universities  —   the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, New York University and Yale  —   each have retirement plans holding more than $3 billion in assets and are being individually sued by a number of their employees in cases seeking   status. The lawyer representing the three groups of plaintiffs, Jerome J. Schlichter, is a pioneer in retirement plan litigation. Over the last decade, he has filed more than 20 lawsuits on behalf of workers in 401( k) retirement plans and has been widely credited with lowering plan fees across corporate America. With the suits filed in federal courts on Tuesday, the focus has turned to a   corner of the retirement savings market, 403( b) plans, which are named for a section of the tax code. The accounts are similar to 401( k) plans, but are offered by public schools and nonprofit institutions like universities and hospitals. The complaints allege that the universities, as the plan sponsors, failed to monitor excessive fees paid to administer the plans and did not replace more expensive,   investments with cheaper ones. Had the plans eliminated their long lists of investment options and used their bargaining power to cut costs, the complaints argue, participants could have collectively saved tens of millions of dollars. “It is important for retirees and employees of universities to have the same rights and ability to build their retirement assets as employees of   companies,” said Mr. Schlichter, a founding partner of Schlichter Bogard  Denton in St. Louis. “They shouldn’t be penalized. ” In a statement, New York University said that it took the welfare of its faculty and employees seriously, including a dignified retirement. “The retirement plans offered to them are chosen and administered carefully and prudently. We will litigate this case vigorously and expect to prevail,” said John Beckman, a university spokesman. A spokeswoman for M. I. T. said it did not comment on pending litigation, while Yale said it was “cautious and careful” in administering its plans and would defend itself vigorously. More attention is being paid to investment costs shouldered by American workers, who are less likely today to have pension plans. With the strong support of the Obama administration, the Labor Department introduced new rules in April to strengthen investor protections, requiring a broader group of financial professionals to act in customers’ best interest when handling their retirement money. The aim is to reduce conflicts of interest and the fees consumers pay. Even modest reductions in costs can have a significant effect on retirees’ savings. An   example from the Labor Department: Paying one percentage point more in fees over a   career  —   say 1. 5 percent instead of 0. 5 percent  —   could leave a worker with 28 percent less at retirement. An account with $25, 000  —   and no further contributions for those 35 years  —   would rise to only $163, 000 instead of $227, 000, at an annual rate of 7 percent. Mr. Schlichter said the three universities’ plans were targeted because more people were asking questions about their retirement accounts and “these involve clear breaches of the law. ” The complaint against N. Y. U.  —   which involves two 403( b) plans covering faculty, research administration and the medical school  —   centers largely on costs. The complaint said that participants were offered too many investment choices (there were more than 100 options for faculty) and that many of them were too expensive. The suit, filed in Federal District Court for the Southern District of New York, singles out several investments, including the TIAA Traditional Annuity, which it said has severe restrictions and penalties for withdrawal, as well as variable annuities that have several layers of fees and have historically underperformed. A spokesman for TIAA said it offered   plans and   investments that provide lifetime income. The suit also argues that even the cheapest funds offered could have been provided for less, given the enormous size and bargaining power of the faculty and medical school plans, which together held $4. 2 billion in assets for more than 24, 000 participants at the end of 2014. The complaint alleges that the university did not use its negotiating powers to select a single   record keeper for administrative tasks such as sending statements to employees. It said it also overpaid for these services for many years. The issues concerning Yale’s 403( b) retirement plan  —   which held nearly $3. 6 billion in assets in the spring of 2014  —   follow a similar pattern: multiple record keepers with excessive fees, costing participants millions of dollars over the last six years too many investments of the same style and the use of   funds instead of identical but   ones. That case was filed in Federal District Court in Connecticut. Yale eventually consolidated to one provider, TIAA, in April 2015, and swapped in some   investments, but the suit claims that the changes did not go far enough to fully protect the interests of its employees. Mr. Schlichter said participants were still burdened with sorting through more than 100 options, many of which were too expensive. The complaints lodged against M. I. T. ’s retirement plan (unusually, it is a 401( k) like those used by corporations) are similar but with a twist. The suit alleges that the university, because of its longstanding relationship with nearby Fidelity, did not conduct a thorough search for a plan provider, which might have provided better service for less. The retirement plan offered more than 340 investment options  —   including 180 Fidelity funds  —   until July 2015, when M. I. T. reduced the lineup to 37 options but still retained Fidelity as the record keeper. The complaint said that Fidelity had donated “hundreds of thousands of dollars” to M. I. T. while Abigail Johnson, Fidelity’s chief executive, has served as a member of M. I. T. ’s board of trustees, giving her influence over the institution’s  . Had the plan reduced its options to those on the menu it adopted last year, “participants would have saved over $8 million in fees in 2014 alone, and many millions more since 2010,” according to the complaint, filed in Federal District Court in Massachusetts. M. I. T. recognized that the plan structure was inefficient, the filing said, since that was part of the reason it said it made the changes. But even after the overhaul, the suit alleges, investment costs could be further reduced. Fidelity, which noted that it was not a defendant in the case, declined to comment. Mr. Schlichter’s firm has settled about half of his 20 cases over the last 10 years. His first case involving a 403( b) was against Novant Health, a nonprofit hospital system, which settled last year for $32 million. In a landmark case he argued last year before the Supreme Court, the justices, in a unanimous decision, agreed that plan sponsors had a “continuing duty to monitor investments and remove imprudent ones. ” A series of suits, from Mr. Schlichter’s firm and others, continue to be filed in the corporate world: Several asset managers, including Neuberger Berman and Franklin Resources, among others, have recently been sued for putting their own investments in their employees’ 401( k) plans. Some of the more prominent cases against 401( k) plans settled by Mr. Schlichter include a $62 million settlement against Lockheed Martin, $57 million from Boeing and $27. 5 million from Ameriprise, all in 2015. He also settled cases with Cigna, International Paper, Caterpillar, General Dynamics, Bechtel and Kraft. Mr. Schlichter said his firm, which works on a contingency basis, typically collects up to a third of the settlement, while the remainder goes to the plaintiffs and members of the class. He said that his settlements also required employers to make changes to their plans to ensure fees were reasonable in the future.