 (CNN) Taylor Swift and Calvin Harris seem to want to erase their shared past. Just after ”The Sun” published pictures of Swift kissing actor Tom Hiddleston, we discovered something else: Swift, the queen of Instagram with more than 81 million followers, has deleted all traces of her former boyfriend, deejay Calvin Harris, from her account. He has done the same.  Related Link: Taylor Swift photographed kissing Tom Hiddleston, Swift and Harris announced their breakup just two weeks ago. They kept their relationship private for the most part, but occasionally shared moments of their time together on social media. The picture Swift posted on March 6 of a locket Harris gave her with their    date inscribed? Deleted. The photos the two posted from their romantic getaway in the Bahamas last March are gone too. Representatives for Swift and Harris are not commenting. But in an age of oversharing on social media with carefully curated imagery, severing digital ties speaks volumes. Harris, who currently follows over 4, 000 people on Twitter, officially unfollowed Swift. He also deleted a tweet he wrote earlier this month about his breakup with Swift that read, ”The only truth here is that a relationship came to an end and what remains is a tremendous amount of love and respect.” Swift had retweeted it, and has also since deleted it, but she still follows Harris on Twitter. When social media entanglements are this complicated, it seems erasing one’s past is practically impossible. If Swift and Hiddleston really are a new couple, perhaps her fans have a new album to look forward to. Swift has achieved remarkable success with her narrative songwriting style. Her 2010 hit ”Dear John,” is thought to be about her tumultuous relationship with John Mayer. Her catchy 2012 chart topper, ”We Are Never Ever Getting Back Together,” is allegedly about her   romance with Jake Gyllenhaal.  ”Look, it’s not like it was written somewhere in the fine print that I write songs about my life,” Swift told ”The New York Times Magazine” in 2012. ”If we break up, I’m going to write about it. But I’m probably also going to write about when I fell in love with you. So there’s an upside.” 