 (CNN) From March 19 show: For more on the previously classified maps discussed in our Last Look, you can visit the CIA Flickr account here. From October 2 show: Joseph Lelyveld’s ”His Final Battle: The Last Months of Franklin Roosevelt” is Fareed’s book of the week. ”Lelyveld tells the gripping story of a man at the peak of his power, literally running the world, but whose heart was steadily collapsing. You know how it ends, but because of the intelligence and empathy of the author and very good writing, you will not be able to put this book down.” From September 25 show: Fareed’s book of the week is Jonathan Tepperman’s ”The Fix: How Nations Survive and Thrive in a World of Decline.” From August 7 show: Fareed’s book of the week is ”ISIS: A History,” by Fawaz Gerges. Fareed says: ”This is quite simply the definitive book on the group by a very smart,   guide to the region.” From July 10 show: Fareed’s book of the week is Bryan Stevenson’s ”Just Mercy: A Story of Justice and Redemption.” From June 19 show: Fyodor Dostoyevsky’s ”Crime and Punishment” is Fareed’s book of the week. From June 5 show: Fareed’s book of the week is Ruchir Sharma’s ”The Rise and Fall of Nations.” From May 22 show: ”The American President,” by William E. Leuchtenburg, is Fareed’s book of the week. From May 15 show: The book of the week is Rana Foroohar’s ”Makers and Takers: The Rise of Finance and the Fall of American Business.” From May 8 show: This week’s book of the week is Joshua Cooper Ramo’s ”The Seventh Sense.” From August 30 show: Make a rhino, save a species? For more information on efforts by Robert Breare and Jan Stejskal to ”develop the IVF techniques needed for a new generation of northern white rhino,” visit their GoFundMe page here. From July 26 show: Fareed speaks with climate scientist James Hansen, former director of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies about his new paper on climate change and an article in the Washington Post featuring some analysts skeptical of his predictions. From July 19 show: Fareed discusses the escape of Joaquim Guzman, better known as ”El Chapo,” with the New Yorker’s Patrick Radden Keefe, who wrote about the issue for the New Yorker this month. ”That this escape involved a tunnel is shocking but not surprising. Chapo, famously, has a thing for tunnels: he invented the narco tunnel, decades ago, and his cartel has dug hundreds of these passages under the U. S.  border to transport drugs. When Mexican marines raided the Culiacan safe house where he was holed up last February, Guzmán narrowly escaped by plunging into a secret tunnel that was hidden beneath a bathtub. As a drug trafficker, Guzmán has always been nimble and innovative. But in escaping from prison a second time, he opted not to devise some     new stratagem, but to stick with his predictable, and effective, M. O.” Read the full article, From June 14 show: Though Baby Boomers may criticize Millennials for being   careerist, and politically dispassionate, they are really just adapting to the world they live in today, writes Fareed Zakaria in ’The Atlantic’. ”I will grant that on American campuses today, there is a pervasive culture of achievement, often in a narrow   sense. But it’s strange to blame the students for something that is largely beyond their control. After all, they did not devise the intense system of tests that comprise the gateway to American higher education, nor did they create the highly competitive job market in anxious economic times. Admissions offices now prize nothing less than perfection. And the pressure doesn’t stop once students get into college.  ”The race continues with markers set up to point them toward summer jobs, internships, fellowships, and finally   jobs. The process of getting hired at a prestigious bank or consulting firm now involves a marathon of interviews and examinations, with thousands often applying for the few positions on offer. The critics seem to feel that in confronting this grueling system of rewards, kids should take it easy, relax, follow their bliss, and search for their souls. Apparently, Goldman Sachs will understand.” Read the full article