RIO DE JANEIRO  —   Running late after arriving for the Olympics last week, the mother of the United States volleyball player Carli Lloyd dropped her suitcase at the cruise ship where she is staying during the Games. She and her family then rushed to see her daughter’s first match. When the group returned a few hours later, the mother, Cindy Lloyd, was pulled into an interrogation room and shown the charred and unrecognizable remains of her suitcase. It had been blown up because, the authorities told her, they suspected it was a bomb. “The handle was nowhere,” said Ms. Lloyd, who is traveling with her brother and two grown children. “It was completely blown up. There was some clothing. They use some sort of wet bomb, I think, because everything was wet. Some of the clothes were salvageable, but some were melted. Some had holes. My American flag was melted. And all the toiletries with caps had their caps blown off. ” The authorities in Brazil have blown up several suspicious bags since the Olympics began, including an unattended one near the finish line of a cycling race. But the case of Ms. Lloyd’s suitcase may be the most curious of all. Ms. Lloyd, whose daughter is often confused with the American soccer star with the same name, had reservations to stay on a Norwegian Cruise Line ship, docked in Rio next to the luxury liner housing the United States basketball teams. A series of canceled and missed flights from Southern California led the family to connections in Peru and Chile  —   and all the security checkpoints between  —   on the way to Brazil. Finally in Rio, they took a taxi to the cruise terminal to check in. They gave their names, had their passports checked and handed over their luggage, like everyone else in line. They presumed that their bags would be in their cabin when they returned. When they came back, the others were checked in quickly. Ms. Lloyd was stopped. “They took me back to this room, and there were some really scary people,” she said. “They started interrogating me. I don’t know who they were, but there were five or six of them, all in uniform. And after about 10 minutes, they told me they blew up my bag. ” Ms. Lloyd said that she was told, in accented English, that two   dogs had stopped at her suitcase. She was shown a photo of the contents, presumably from an   machine. Asked to explain what different things were, she pointed to something that looked like the extra cellphone she packed, a phone charger and a bottle of shampoo. “Maybe they thought it was something wired to a bottle, I suppose,” she said. What she could not understand was why the authorities handed her the phone. They had opened the bag and retrieved the phone yet still proceeded to blow up the bag. And she could not figure out how a bag that had gone through several cities on different airlines without any suspicion was suddenly in pieces in front of her. “Looking back at it, it was really bizarre,” Ms. Lloyd said. Norwegian Cruise Line, she said, has been extremely apologetic and helpful. It brought her sparkling wine, provided free meals and told Ms. Lloyd that it would reimburse her for the cost of replacing all the ruined items. The cruise line also said that it would get her a new suitcase for the way home. Ms. Lloyd remained   about the episode. As she spoke, she wore a shirt with holes in it because she had not had time to go shopping. If nothing else, she has an interesting story to tell back home. “But I didn’t want to have a story,” she said. “Watching your daughter at the Olympics was a good enough story for me. ”