Heidelberg’s only Mark Twain impersonator takes his work seriously. His eyebrows and mustache are unruly, and his long gray hair overlaps his ears. He wears a white suit that is too warm in summer and not warm enough in winter. The only obvious problem with Klaus Mombrei’s performance, as he leads tour groups through the city, is something Twain himself would have found amusing: He speaks not   English but his native German. “Surely there is not another language that is so slipshod and systemless and so slippery and elusive to the grasp,” Twain fumed in his 1880 European travelogue “A Tramp Abroad. ” And yet, despite his problems with German, Twain was smitten with the country. “Germany, in the summer, is the perfection of the beautiful,” he gushed. He was especially fond of Heidelberg, where he lived with his family in the summer of 1878. The city was “the last possibility of the beautiful,” he wrote, straining to surpass the superlative he had lavished on the country. Heidelberg curls up against the Neckar River in a narrow pass between a pair of mountains, like a flower preserved between two books. As Mr. Mombrei leads tours of visitors (mostly Germans) over the cobblestone streets, he likes to share a popular local legend. “I tell my groups Twain got the idea for the ‘Adventures of Huckleberry Finn’ from the Neckar,” he said. “A Tramp Abroad” includes the story of a raft journey down the river and was published several years before “Adventures of Huckleberry Finn. ” Many people in Heidelberg believe, therefore, that the Neckar was the creative headwater to Twain’s Mississippi. In fact, the fictional river trip was already racing through his mind. Twain had started the novel before he went to Germany, but the draft was stalled shortly after Huck and Jim destroyed their raft in a collision with a steamship. No wonder, then, that Twain watched timber rafts rushing down the Neckar, “hoping to see one of them hit the   and wreck itself. ” He was in a creative crisis. This crucial chapter in Twain’s career is often overlooked. So I set out to understand it better by retracing his footsteps in the region. Heidelberg survived World War II with only minor damage, so visitors today can still experience the romantic charm Twain found. Church towers crane above the red roofs, while the medieval main street, Hauptstrasse, meanders through the center of the city. The famous castle ruins loom high on the mountainside, a   mosaic caulked with moss and tiny plants. In the afternoon, Twain and his family would gather in the castle park for beer and music. When I visited, a theater troupe was rehearsing “Kiss Me, Kate. ” Twain stayed at the Schloss hotel, the finest lodging in Heidelberg at the time. The building was on a bluff even higher than the castle, so that Twain could stand on his balcony and drink in the entire city. “I have never enjoyed a view which had such a serene and satisfying charm,” he wrote in “A Tramp Abroad. ” In the evening, Heidelberg became “a fallen Milky Way   …     its intricate cobweb of streets jeweled with twinkling lights. ” Today, the Schloss hotel has been rebuilt as private residences, a boring beige box floating like a Mario Block on its perch above the city. I stayed across the river at the Hirschgasse, a former student pub that Twain could see from his hotel window. In Twain’s time, the Hirschgasse was the battleground for Heidelberg University’s fencing fraternities, whose members were identifiable by their caps and facial scars. Today the Hirschgasse features two of Heidelberg’s best restaurants: the upscale French restaurant Le Gourmet and the German Mensurstube, where the tables are scratched with the signatures of former students and the walls decorated with fencing caps, sabers and old photographs. Other fraternity watering holes from Twain’s time are still in business. On the Hauptstrasse, Zum Seppl and Zum Roten Ochsen both serve German comfort food: bratwurst, cheese spaetzle and white asparagus  —   a springtime specialty whose nutritional value Germans like to obliterate with Hollandaise sauce and ham. The fencing duels fascinated Twain. At the Hirschgasse, he saw “the heads and faces of ten youths gashed in every direction. ” You might have expected him to foil such pointless violence with common sense and wit, but he thought the ritual deserved “a considerable degree of respect. ” Throughout “A Tramp Abroad,” Twain’s critical faculties seem somewhat dulled. He describes the German people with cliché after cliché. Twain’s Germans are orderly, clean, punctual and brave. In his letters, he praises the country’s “genuine freedom” and “superb government” at a time of political and social upheaval. The emperor was nearly assassinated twice during Twain’s visit. Twain cultivated his ignorance intentionally. “I don’t read any newspapers,” he wrote to a friend. “Ah, I have such a deep, grateful, unutterable sense of being ‘out of it all.’ ” When Twain arrived in Germany, his writer’s block had hamstrung not only “Huckleberry Finn” but also several other books, including “Life on the Mississippi” and “The Prince and the Pauper. ” And he had humiliated himself in December 1877 with an irreverent speech in Boston before some of America’s greatest literary figures: Ralph Waldo Emerson, Henry Wadsworth Longfellow and Oliver Wendell Holmes. “I feel that my misfortune has injured me all over the country,” he wrote to a friend. He told his mother that he needed to “fly to some little corner of Europe. ” I arrived in Heidelberg in June with some sense of Twain’s restlessness. When I told a friend that I was having trouble concentrating, he said I should stay present: open my senses to whatever was happening at the moment, and exist in the world instead of in my head. As I reread “A Tramp Abroad,” knowing that Twain had arrived in Germany under a cloud of shame and failure, it seemed to me that he had faced a similar challenge. His goal was not so much to penetrate Heidelberg and the Neckar Valley but to soak his senses in those places, to dissolve his insecurity in the scenery and to rediscover his pride and purpose. This comes through clearest in Twain’s Neckar narrative, so I followed him upriver. From Heidelberg, I took a boat to Neckarsteinach, an old town with a quartet of castle ruins. The river winds between hills like a lazy cursive signature. Time has worked slowly on its banks: The terrain is still mainly field and forest the mountains robed in thick green foliage. Every few miles our boat passed a village with   teenagers and rows of simple white homes. After sundown, the buildings glowed like votive candles in the dark. The inns where Twain stayed along the Neckar have closed, but some of his favorite castle ruins are now connected with hotels. Burg Hornberg is a mountaintop fortress surrounded by terraced vineyards, with a tower so high that surely, at some point, someone must have locked a princess in it. The hotel’s impressive view of the Neckar is marred only slightly by an industrial plant. Farther downstream, you can stay at the Schlosshotel Hirschhorn, whose ruins were one of Twain’s favorite Neckar sights. “The clustered brown towers perched on the green hilltop, and the old battlemented stone wall, stretching up and over the grassy ridge and disappearing in the leafy sea beyond, make a picture whose grace and beauty entirely satisfy the eye,” he wrote in “A Tramp Abroad. ” Twain’s Neckar story is filled with these moments of sensory immersion. He luxuriates in the “green and fragrant banks,” the vineyards, the poppy fields. In these sensual descriptions, Twain’s language often turns therapeutic. The raft, he wrote, “soothes to sleep all nervous hurry and impatience under its restful influence all the troubles and vexations and sorrows that harass the mind vanish away. ” In Germany, Twain was finding the equilibrium that had deserted him at home. Writing “A Tramp Abroad” would frustrate Twain immensely: His writer’s block had not yet lifted. But in the Neckar journey, one can detect the shoots of creative rejuvenation. He spins the legend of a German knight named Sir Wissenschaft, who slays a dragon not with a sword but with a fire extinguisher  —   a precursor to the   hero of “A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur’s Court. ” The greatest sign of Twain’s revival is the Neckar raft itself. Twain never rafted down the river: He traveled the region by boat, foot and train and invented the raft only later as a narrative device. It had emerged from his subconscious and back into his active imagination. And when he picked up the draft of “Adventures of Huckleberry Finn” in 1879, the raft was still afloat: He found a way forward by repairing Huck and Jim’s raft after the steamship accident and continuing their journey down the Mississippi. As my boat pushed upstream, I tried to absorb the greenery, the   breeze, the sound of water breaking on the hull. By tuning his senses to this place, Twain started to clear his mind, and his inspiration began to flow more freely. After “A Tramp Abroad,” he would have the greatest decade of his career, publishing “The Prince and the Pauper,” “Life on the Mississippi,” “Adventures of Huckleberry Finn” and “A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur’s Court. ” And when he got stuck or frustrated with the writing process, perhaps he remembered the quiet music of the Neckar, that narrow river whose sound “bears up the thread of one’s imaginings as an accompaniment bears up a song. ” The Hirschgasse The former dueling ground of Heidelberg University’s fencing fraternities, it is now a small luxury hotel with two of the city’s best restaurants. (Hirschgasse 3, Heidelberg hirschgasse. ). Double rooms start at 155 euros, or about $170. Burg Hornberg This ruined castle of a famous German knight is surrounded by vineyards whose wines can be tasted at the hotel restaurant. (Burg Hornberg 1, Neckarzimmern   . ). Double rooms start at €110. Schlosshotel Hirschhorn One of Twain’s favorite sites, the castle ruin and hotel sit on a mountain above a medieval German village. (Schlossstrasse   Hirschhorn  . ). Double rooms start at €96. Zum Seppl This former fraternity watering hole serves classic German dishes like bratwurst and schnitzel. (Hauptstrasse 213, Heidelberg  . ). Dinner for two with drinks, about €60. Zum Roten Ochsen This    German pub displays a photo of Twain. (Hauptstrasse 217, Heidelberg roterochsen. .) Dinner for two with drinks, about €52.