 (CNN) The popular new game ”Pokemon Go” has officially made its way onto the 2016 campaign trail    literally.  The Clinton campaign announced it will hold an official event on Saturday to register voters at the ”Madison Park Pokestop  PokeGYM” in Lakewood, Ohio.  ”Join us as we go to the Pokestop in Madison Park and put up a lure module, get free pokemon,  battle each other while you register voters and learn more about Sec. Hillary Clinton! !!” the event page reads.  Clinton also referred to the app at a campaign rally in Virginia on Thursday.  ”I don’t know who created Pokemon Go, but I’d try to figure out how to get them to have Pokemon go to the polls,” she said.  And it doesn’t stop with Clinton    Trump Tower is a ”Pokemon Go” hot spot, and so is the White House    but sadly for Donald Trump, he says he doesn’t have time for the viral video game sensation, wherever he ends up after the 2016 election. The Trump campaign released a video with its own, edited version of the app titled ”Crooked Hillary NO” that shows Hillary Clinton with a description as if she were a Pokemon character, labeled as ”Crooked Hillary” that is ”often found lying to the American people, rigging the system, and sharing TOP SECRET emails.” The description goes on to list her next evolution as unemployed.  Trump told the Washington Examiner in an interview preview out Thursday that he’s heard of the game (like everyone else) but that he’s just been too busy to check it out.  ”I don’t, but people are playing it. No question about it. I do not    I wish I had time,” Trump told the Examiner when asked if he’d ever played. For the uninitiated, ”Pokemon Go” is an app that merges features of the classic   video game with modern smartphone technology, allowing players to visit landmarks all over the country where they can spot and try to capture the virtual creatures. The video game uses smartphone cameras to make seem as if players are catching the pixelated monsters in actual locations.  Unfortunately, it’s not clear from the interview if Trump is a Charmander, Squirtle or Bulbasaur kind of guy. 