BATON ROUGE, La.  —   Few can appreciate the scale of devastation and loss here quite like the tow truck driver. Since before dawn, Terrance Carter was up, first getting a flooded Cadillac out of Zachary, a town where more than two feet of rain had fallen in 72 hours. Soon after, he was hooking up a pickup truck abandoned by its driver during the floods in a neighborhood of North Baton Rouge, where nearly every house had the telltale brown stain up past the windowsills. Two hours later, he was taking a minivan through the charmingly named and thoroughly devastated   subdivisions in the eastern part of the city. On this tour of destruction, he pointed to familiar neighborhoods that looked utterly wrecked and nearly deserted, and to ruined houses of friends he was just now seeing. But he was quiet passing the Triple S convenience store. It was there, on July 5, that his uncle Alton B. Sterling was killed. “It’s very hard to pass by that store,” said Mr. Carter, a    father of four who like thousands here is now homeless. He drove on in silence for some blocks. Then he pointed: “All this flooded. ” It had already been a long, painful summer in Baton Rouge. What was once a sleepy college and government town was hit in July with successive crises that seemed, at the time, to be the crises of a decade: citywide protests over the police shooting of Mr. Sterling and the gunning down of three officers 12 days later. What followed were weeks of talk about coming together as a community after a crisis. Then came the worst flooding in memory. By Wednesday morning, about 7, 000 people were spread among 37 shelters across   southern Louisiana, the Federal Emergency Management Agency said. Later in the day, the death toll reached 13, and state officials said they were still searching homes and businesses after a flood that the American Red Cross described as “the worst natural disaster to strike the United States since Superstorm Sandy. ” In Ascension Parish, southeast of Baton Rouge, the local emergency preparedness director compared rescue operations to those that followed Hurricane Katrina in 2005. “The sheltering effort is actually greater than what we saw for Hurricane Katrina,” the director, Richard A. Webre, said. The White House said that President Obama, who was vacationing in Massachusetts, had received a briefing on Wednesday morning from the FEMA administrator, W. Craig Fugate, who visited Louisiana this week. More than 70, 000 people had registered for federal assistance, the White House said. Nearly everyone here has been affected by one of the crises this summer, some by two and some by all three. Police officers in Baton Rouge have been working extended shifts of 12 hours each, even though, according to a department spokesman, the flooding affected “a large number” of officers. “We’re out there and we’re doing what we can,” said Sgt. Don Coppola Jr. of the Baton Rouge Police Department. In Livingston Parish, the Sheriff’s Office said that at least 60 deputies had had to deal with flood damage. “Some have nowhere to go,” the agency said on its Facebook page. The homes of the families of the three law enforcement officers killed on July 17  —   Cpl. Montrell L. Jackson and Officer Matthew Gerald of the Baton Rouge police, and Deputy Brad Garafola of the East Baton Rouge Sheriff’s Office  —   had made it through the floods, officials said, some damaged but none ruined. Mr. Carter had been asleep early on July 5 when his mother called and told him that her brother, Mr. Sterling, had been shot by an officer at the Triple S. The days unfolded and exploded. Mr. Carter’s employer saw him on television talking about the shooting and fired him, Mr. Carter said. A baby daughter was born a week later. Three days after that, Mr. Carter stood before hundreds at his uncle’s funeral service and recited a poem he had written, “Kiss From Your Nephew. ” Two days afterward, the three officers were shot dead by a man from Missouri angered about Mr. Sterling’s death. Mr. Carter emphasized to the reporters who asked: He did not condone violence at all he has relatives on the police force. The summer quieted until the rains came this past weekend. He had to spend Saturday and Sunday nights in a shelter in Baton Rouge with his four young children, from 5 weeks to 7 years, and Bessia Moore, the mother of the two youngest. On Monday, he moved everyone to his sisters’ small house, joining nine other people and two dogs. On Tuesday, he went to the house where he, his children, his mother and stepfather had been living, and found it and everything in it ruined. On Wednesday, he was back at work. “Somebody gave me the clothes I have on now,” he said Wednesday, sitting in the truck cab equipped with a pack of cigarettes and the last of his insulin shots. “Nothing I have on is mine. Even the shoes. ” This part of his story is not so different from many others in south Louisiana. It has similarities with Michelle Monistere, who had the minivan in Lakeview Estates, which like so many subdivisions in the eastern part of the city was congested with piles of ruined mattresses, carpeting, wallboard and furniture. It is familiar to Tasha Butler, who was taking everything out of the house where she had lived for 35 out of the last 40 years. “It was bad,” she said through a dust mask. “It’s everything. ” Mr. Carter was in North Baton Rouge, a struggling and often overlooked part of the city where he has lived most of his life, to retrieve the pickup. Discarded cars littered the streets. Mr. Carter recognized Ms. Butler’s house, having helped paint it when he was 10. “In time, it will be better,” said Ms. Butler, throwing another garbage bag on the enormous pile on her lawn. After hours on the road, Mr. Carter finally stopped for something to eat: fried shrimp and fish at the V  P Seafood and Deli. A local news channel was playing, and the police chief of a small flooded Louisiana city was talking of the coffins that had floated up from graveyards. “Even the dead can’t rest,” the chief was saying. Mr. Carter watched. He had feared this possibility when he was in the shelter over the weekend, he said. So he had walked from the shelter to his uncle’s grave. It had not been disturbed.