August is generally considered   among book people. The big summer blockbusters have already come out. Publishing people are out of the office. Everyone’s biding his or her time for the big books of fall. Not this year. August has been pretty amazing so far. Lots of ambitious and exciting books have just been released. Colson Whitehead’s big new novel was moved up from a   release date to early August. And there are more to come. Publishing industry wisdom seems to be Avoid the Election at All Costs. For readers, the happy results are some great books that might otherwise have been held until the weather cools. Enjoy, early birds. Pamela PaulEditor of The New York Times Book Review THE UNDERGROUND RAILROAD, by Colson Whitehead. (Doubleday, $26. 95.) Everyone I know is reading or has just read this book, for good reason. Colson Whitehead’s   stunningly daring novel turns the historical freedom network from metaphor to reality, complete with tracks, locomotives and platforms. AMERICAN HEIRESS: The Wild Saga of the Kidnapping, Crimes and Trial of Patty Hearst, by Jeffrey Toobin. (Doubleday, $28. 95.)  Jeffrey Toobin, author of “The Run of His Life: The People v. O. J. Simpson,” knows how to tell a good crime story. In his riveting account of the Patty Hearst affair, even the S. L. A. is shown some compassion. COUSIN JOSEPH: A Graphic Novel, by Jules Feiffer. (Liveright, $25. 95.) Jules Feiffer’s long, incredible career has included everything from plays to political cartoons, and lately   graphic novels. In this   noir, America turns its baleful attention toward Hollywood, Jews, unionists and Communists. KNOWN AND STRANGE THINGS: Essays, by Teju Cole. (Random House, paper, $17.) The novelist Teju Cole (“Open City,” “Every Day Is for the Thief”) has his first collection of nonfiction, in which he journeys through all the landscapes he has access to: international, personal, cultural, technological and emotional. THE FIRE THIS TIME: A New Generation Speaks About Race, edited by Jesmyn Ward. (Scribner, $25.) Building on James Baldwin, Jesmyn Ward’s anthology looks at the joy and pain of being black in America. An   list of contributors includes Rachel Kaadzi Ghansah, Kevin Young, Mitchell Jackson and Edwidge Danticat. MAX GATE, by Damien Wilkins. (Aardvark Bureau, paper, $14. 95.) Told from the perspective of a housemaid, Damien Wilkins’s novel offers a splendid portrait of Thomas Hardy’s last days, and a descent into the loveless prison of his marriage. Full of dark humor and wit. PARADISE LODGE, by Nina Stibbe. (Little, Brown, $26.) Since her debut memoir, “Love, Nina,” one of the most charming books of 2014, Nina Stibbe has published two novels in quick order. Her latest features a moody British teenager who finds her calling at an unorthodox nursing home. CHANCE DEVELOPMENTS, by Alexander McCall Smith. (Pantheon, $26.) This book offers a very interesting premise: What stories might you create out of a series of found photographs? Alexander McCall Smith uses anonymous photos as windows into the past. STILL HERE, by Lara Vapnyar. (Hogarth, $26.) The author of two story collections and two previous novels, Lara Vapnyar is poised to break out big with her latest. In this   novel, four Russian friends try to make their way in New York.