A   artist you love makes a new recording  —   say, the   group Clipping or the Chicago punk band Mace or the electronic composer Kaitlyn Aurelia Smith. You feel you have to graft it onto your life. How does that go for you these days? Does streaming from Spotify, Apple Music or Tidal answer your needs in terms of audio quality and how well the artist is paid? Do you have a good record store nearby, and does it sell cassettes and vinyl, too? Do you only buy new records directly from artists, with a cash transaction and a handshake? Do you love spending time on iTunes? If you answered no to all these questions, you probably know about Bandcamp, the online music site known for its equitable treatment of artists, and one of the greatest   bazaars of our time. From it, you can stream music to the extent each artist allows, or buy songs at a price set by the artist  —   which is sometimes “pay what you wish”  —   or order physical products from the site. The artist gets 85 percent. Always, the artist gets to know who’s buying, without a third party in the way. There’s also a   application on the site that lets the consumer know who else is buying and what else they’ve bought in the past. That is significant: You can triangulate your taste with other people, whom you don’t know, but whom you might come to trust. All of which makes Bandcamp a strange categorical combination of Spotify, iTunes  —   though it is much smaller than either  —   a big independent record store and a small band’s merch table after a gig. I often buy music on Bandcamp, because I know I’m putting a sandwich in someone’s mouth. But a lot more often, I just listen. All of the time I’ve spent there has felt beautifully unmediated, and mostly dedicated to one kind of music. Which has been, until recently, punk, the noisier the better. That is a conscious limitation  —   I only have so much time  —   but also because Bandcamp has become something like punk’s central agency. It’s the right medium for it ergo, nearly all of it is there. I’m not sure there’s ever been anything like that in the past for punk culture, which is   international and inherently suspicious of commercialism. To punk bands, Bandcamp may represent a fair business model, and a reasonably direct link between artist and audience. To me, it has represented a fantasy of being left alone with valuable information that I can make sense of however I like. I’ve got the raw data: collections of charged, grimy,   songs with uncharismatic titles like “  Demo” and   art, by little bands from Chicago and the Czech Republic and Japan. Bandcamp, which started in 2008 and is run out of a number of small offices in San Francisco, Brooklyn and elsewhere, became profitable in 2012 and sells a record every five seconds. It grew 35 percent last year and has paid $169 million to artists, according to its website. Its chief executive, Ethan Diamond, mentioned in an interview that “plenty of artists” have made more than $100, 000 each through it, and all of them get the same deal: The site keeps 15 percent of each sale. (By comparison, iTunes takes about 30 percent, and going that route also requires being on a label or working with an independent distributor, which takes another cut.) Bandcamp’s basic business model is not changing. But the experience of spending time at the site and listening to music through it might be. A sign of a new phase came early this summer. Bandcamp hired a smart staff to create about 20 times the amount of editorial content that had been there previously, writing about music that had just been posted as well as parts of its deep and woolly catalog, in a feature called “Bandcamp Daily. ” A June  article surveyed the current rock scene in Bangkok, with embedded musical examples of six different bands. Before, those bands had just made their records available on the site. You knew about the scene, or you randomly found your way to them, or more likely, you didn’t Mr. Diamond told me that the company has never spent money on promotion. Now those bands are being organized,   by employees with knowledge and taste, into history. My own reaction, not just as a fan of specific bands but as a fan of the weirdly oceanic Bandcamp experience, is perfectly divided: grateful and wary. The Bangkok piece was soon followed by an interview with the young American   Julien Baker, in which she picked her favorite “Bandcamp bands. ” (They were passionate fledglings, like her they included Our Lady, Hodera and Ratboys, all new to me.) That piece, too, included streamable tracks. Very helpful. But: Bandcamp bands? Are there such things? What seems like a great bazaar from a distance can become a much more focused and private experience up close, especially when you narrow down your search to a single genre. When I’m looking through the site’s pages for individual punk bands, Bandcamp suddenly becomes more like a box of punk 45s, individually sleeved and glued, at the foot of a driveway on a rural route, with a     sign and a record player. (An invisible hand replenishes the box every day.) The extreme neutrality of the experience has been part of the attraction, and part of the reason I have spent so much time looking. Punk bands are skeptical about being objectified, categorized, rated so am I. Looking without help was how I first found G. L. O. S. S. the trans and queer punk band from Olympia, Wash. which recently had a best seller on the site with its EP “Trans Day of Revenge. ” And Torso and Replica, from Oakland, Calif. and JJ Doll, from Brooklyn and Good Throb, from London and on and on. But now there are experts to guide me. I don’t see the isolated box of 45s anymore. Now I see something with a cultural weight and aura, something  —   I do not like this word  —   curated. Bandcamp has an   identity because of practicalities: Independent artists from   subcultures need it most. Punk is one of them, but some of the most consistently   music on the site is video game soundtrack music, like the one for the game Undertale or the ambient hipster kitsch of about five years ago known as vaporwave. Some   artists, like Car Seat Headrest and Sufjan Stevens, have been able to grow careers with Bandcamp. Part of Bandcamp’s attraction has been the   of some of the    creators who upload music to it. The online magazine Fact, since early 2014, has been publishing monthly columns by the writers Laurent Fintoni and Miles Bowe of the best discoveries on Bandcamp, and they’ve been great: sightings in the wild, basically. (A   record by Prince Metropolis Known that included surreal takedowns of Bill O’Reilly. An album of   field recordings and found sounds by a Belgian artist named Dolphins Into the Future. Et cetera, forever.) The columns weren’t looking for influence or significance they were looking for strangeness and surprise. Bandcamp’s own editorial framing of the music it hosts tends to be more serious, and it’s done, presumably, with some knowledge of what sells and what doesn’t. Are my favorite punk bands now Bandcamp bands? Are they suddenly wanting to conform to a kind of Bandcamp aesthetic? I don’t think so. Not yet. But if that does happen, something might be lost  —   a sense of these bands defining themselves as they want to, which is sort of the Bandcamp promise in the first place. People can use help navigating the riches of Bandcamp. But its estimable editorial project opens an interesting question: When does help turn into tastemaking?