Zika transmission has been confirmed in two neighborhoods in the Miami area, and pregnant women have been advised to avoid both locations. Federal health officials have also suggested that pregnant women and their sexual partners consider avoiding the entire Miami area. Zika infections are also occurring in Puerto Rico and in Latin American and Caribbean countries. • The vast majority of Americans have little to fear from the Zika virus. For almost everyone, including older adults, young children and people with compromised immune systems, it is a mild disease that usually causes nothing more serious than a low fever and an itchy rash. But because it can cross the placenta and attack fetal brain cells, it is dangerous to unborn children. Health officials have emphatically advised pregnant women to do everything they can to avoid it. • Although thousands of Americans have returned from Latin America and the Caribbean with the virus, almost all have recovered within a week or two. A few have passed it to sexual partners, but in nearly all cases, those partners have also recovered quickly. • Once people have had Zika, they are immune to the virus. They cannot get it again or pass it to their child. It is not yet known whether this immunity is for life, but it appears to be  . • People can also pass the virus to Aedes aegypti mosquitoes, which can spread it to other people. So far, that type of transmission has been found only in one small area of the continental United States, in   County. How far it will spread is unknown, but   diseases in that region normally begin to decline only when cold weather kills mosquitoes or makes them dormant. • Although Aedes aegypti mosquitoes have been found in 30 states in the past, it is unusual to find them in large numbers or for long periods anywhere except along the Gulf Coast and in parts of Hawaii. Mosquitoes can pick the virus up from a human during the roughly   period that it is in a person’s blood. •   people in southern Florida are believed to have caught the Zika virus from local mosquitoes. Of those, health officials believe 25 were bitten in or near Miami’s Wynwood neighborhood and five were bitten in or near the South Beach section of Miami Beach. In the remaining cases, some of them as far as 70 miles away, it is unclear where the patients were infected. Most of the   cases were found in local residents, but some were not detected until visitors had returned home to New York, Texas or Taiwan. • Intense   efforts, including aerial spraying, truck and backpack foggers, water treatments to kill larvae and requests to homeowners to empty   containers, have been conducted in the Wynwood area since July. Aedes aegypti mosquito populations there have been reduced, but not eliminated. Control efforts will be intensified in Miami Beach, but aerial spraying cannot be included because the area has too many tall buildings and too much wind. Tourists and residents will be asked to wear repellent, but officials acknowledge that avoiding bites will be difficult because people there often wear shorts and bathing suits. • The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have advised pregnant women to avoid both affected neighborhoods, and also suggested that pregnant women and their sexual partners stay away from all of   County. • Obstetricians in the area have been asked to distribute “Zika prevention kits” to pregnant women. They contain insect repellent, condoms, mosquito nets and other items to help prevent   and sexual transmissions. • No cases of   syndrome, or other immediate but rare consequences of Zika infection, have been detected. Studies from other areas suggest that   syndrome occurs in about one out of 4, 000 infections. The syndrome, a form of ascending paralysis that is usually temporary, can strike anyone but is more common in men and people over 50. • How much of southern Florida now has mosquitoes transmitting Zika is undetermined. There can be long delays between the time transmission starts and when it is detected. Most victims have silent infections and are never tested. When symptoms do occur, they can take three to 10 days to appear. Testing can take another two weeks and then, to confirm local transmission, officials must interview people about their travel histories. The state has many kinds of mosquitoes and only a fraction of the relevant species, Aedes aegypti, need to be infected to sustain an epidemic. In fact, no mosquitoes containing the virus have been found in Florida, but officials said they are not surprised. Finding an infected mosquito is like finding “a needle in a haystack,” officials have said. • How long cases will continue to occur is also unknown. The C. D. C. has said it expects Zika outbreaks to resemble those of similar viruses, like dengue and chikungunya, because they are carried by the same mosquito. In 2009, three dengue cases were found in Key West, the first occurrence of dengue in Florida since 1934. Although the Florida Keys Mosquito Control District rolled out a huge campaign, employing helicopter sprayers, backpack foggers, larvicide and teams of officers, the outbreak lasted two years. During that outbreak, 90 symptomatic cases were confirmed and blood samples showed that 5 percent of Key West had been infected. Key West is a small vacation island with a wealthy, highly educated population.   County has a population of 2. 7 million. • How many of the Florida cases are in pregnant women.