Washington (CNN) Eric Trump said Tuesday his sister, Ivanka, is ”strong” and ”powerful” and would never allow herself to be sexually harassed by her boss. ”Ivanka is a strong, powerful woman, she wouldn’t allow herself to be [subjected] to it, and by the way, you should take it up with Human Resources, and I think she would as a strong person, at the same time, I don’t think she would allow herself to be subjected to that,” he told CBS’s Charlie Rose on ”CBS This Morning” while discussing former Fox News head Roger Ailes alleged sexual harassment of women employees. Eric Trump says father apologized to Khans (but he hasn’t)  Fox News host Megyn Kelly, who it’s been reported was harassed years ago by Ailes, tweeted one word about Eric Trump’s comments: ”Sigh.” Donald Trump stirred controversy this week when he said that Ivanka would ”find another career or find another company” if she were subjected to sexual harassment.  Eric Trump also said that the Trump Organization treats sexual harassment in the work place as ”an absolute  .” ”We all run a company, my father runs a company, we take this    that is an absolute   anywhere, and that’s very much the case,” he said.  Eric Trump later reiterated that sexual harassment is a ” ” in response to a Twitter user with the handle @ErickaAnderson who said: ”I don’t think @EricTrump understands sexual harassment.” ”I said sexual harassment is a ”no go” and should be addressed by Human Resources. It’s totally unacceptable behavior,” he tweeted. Later on Tuesday, Ivanka Trump told Fox News: ”I think harassment in general, regardless, sexual or otherwise, is totally inexcusable and if it transpires it needs to be reported and it needs to be dealt with on a company level.”  ”We have a very strong HR team at the Trump Organization, who is equipped to deal with these issues if they arise and you hope they never arise, you hope you have a culture in which they don’t arise, but when they do it needs to be dealt with swiftly,” she said during a    interview with Fox News’ Greta Van Susteren on ”On The Record.” This story has been updated.