June 3, 2016, Our last daily program of the   academic year features reports on extensive flooding in Texas and the aftermath of a massive wildfire in Alberta, Canada. We’re also discussing the world’s longest and deepest tunnel, which was recently completed in Switzerland, and we’re showing you how scientists can track the quality of air by flying right through it. Our daily program will resume on Monday, August 15. Thank you for an extraordinary year! On this page you will find today’s show Transcript and a place for you to request to be on the CNN Student News Roll Call. TRANSCRIPT, Click here to access the transcript of today’s CNN Student News program. Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published. END OF YEAR NEWSQUIZ, Click here for a printable version of the End of Year Newsquiz (PDF). 1. What is the name of the average of 30 significant U. S. stocks that give an indication of how the overall market is doing? 2. Between what two countries would you find the Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) which is actually one of the most militarized borders on Earth? 3. What Middle Eastern country has been torn apart by civil war since 2011? 4. In what ancient city would you find the holy site known to Jews as Temple Mount and to Muslims as Noble Sanctuary? 5. The United States’   war, which began in October of 2001, is being fought in what other country? 6. What is the name of the virus that’s transmitted by mosquitoes and has been linked to a dangerous birth defect among unborn babies? 7. Name the complex weather pattern that was first recognized in the 1600s and involves naturally warming temperatures in the Pacific Ocean. 8. A water crisis in the city of Flint, Michigan raised concerns that some residents might have been irreversibly poisoned by what element? 9. What South American nation saw its president suspended amid a   recession and accusations of corruption among other government officials? 10. How many justices are currently serving on the U. S. Supreme Court, following the recent death of Justice Antonin Scalia? CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show.  Thank you for using CNN Student News!