In the tech business, you often invent the product first and find out what it’s for later. Facebook was a college social site before it became a global media hub Amazon was a bookseller before it was, well, everything. Likewise with AMC’s “Halt and Catch Fire,” set in the 1980s at the advent of the   revolution. When the series began two years ago, it was another   chasing a trend  —   in this case, the   antihero. Joe MacMillan (Lee Pace) a mysterious,   drifter of a businessman, was paired with Gordon Clark (Scoot McNairy) a brilliant but failed engineer, in a sketchy scheme to bring an IBM clone to market. As a plot, it was less than inspiring, and as a character story, less than inspired: an   Don Draper and a Walter White who dealt in megabytes rather than meth. But at the end of its first season, “Halt” did something almost   in television, if not in tech: It upended its entire project. With the introduction of the Apple Macintosh, Joe and Gordon discovered that they had been chasing yesterday’s dream. They were thinking too small, too incrementally. The quest of the entire season had been a failure of imagination. And “Halt” would have been as well, had it not rebooted  itself. The outstanding second season latched on to a much more powerful idea. The 1980s, it said, were not the decade of a mechanical revolution but a cultural one. The headlines then were about computing power coming to your desktop. But the   change, barely glimmering in the days of telephone modems, lay in the connection of every desktop to every other. It was the birth of the social internet, where we now live. Season 2 followed Mutiny, a nascent online gaming company started by Gordon’s wife, Donna (Kerry Bishé) and Cameron Howe (Mackenzie Davis) an impassioned sparkplug of a programmer. For all practical purposes, the series changed not just its focus but its lead characters. Cameron was visionary but impractical Donna relished the new start but chafed at being forced into the role of the buzz kill adult in the room. (Ms. Bishé gave a nuanced, undersung performance.) This was something we hadn’t seen so often before: a tricky but fruitful alliance between two women in a   industry. Cameron had the digital native’s instinct to see the online world as a place of constant invention. Donna had the emotional intelligence to notice that Mutiny’s social component  —   its chat rooms  —   was the future of the future. Season 3, which begins on Tuesday, continues the show’s   process, picking up in 1986, as Mutiny has relocated from Texas to Silicon Valley and is beginning to reconceive itself one more time. (Cameron and Donna have noticed their gamers’ taking over Mutiny chat to negotiate   trades  —   shades of Craigslist or eBay.) The growing pains continue, throwing the women into the unfamiliar and   world of venture capitalists. “It only takes one of them to ask you to the dance,” says their consigliere, John Bosworth (Toby Huss). Cameron replies, “I love how even the metaphors in this business are sexist. ” They find a possible ally in Diane (Annabeth Gish) a sympathetic but bluntly honest investor. Gordon has come along in tow, feeling at loose ends in a managerial role at Mutiny. The chameleonic Joe, meanwhile, has landed in California as the head of a   firm, sporting a Steve Jobsian beard and speaking in pretentious koans. (“I’ve been accused of selling fear,” he tells a rapt audience. “But let me ask you: Is it fear or is it truth? ”) Joe’s   as a smug tech guru suits Mr. Pace, a striking but peculiar presence whom the show has struggled to use effectively. (He was well cast in the “Hobbit” movies as the frosty,   elven king Thranduil.) He seems fully at home now, strutting around his office listening to Gary Numan music, carrying himself like a human Patrick Nagel print. Joe 3. 0 is also a prelude to the fatuous moguls of HBO’s “Silicon Valley,” to which “Halt” is a temporal and tonal bookend. Where “Silicon Valley” is a gleeful satire about business people feigning idealism  —   all that   about changing the world  —   “Halt” is an empathetic drama about idealists trying to fake their way into business. The new season begins to give you some sense of how we got from there to here. We see the same scrambles to get   advantage, the pilgrimages up and down Sand Hill Road seeking venture capital. But where “Silicon Valley” trades in decacorns (  valued at over $10 billion) it’s jarring in “Halt” to see deals done for six figures  —   not even Dr. Evil money. The new season takes time to reset, and the movement in the early episodes is slow. The character dynamics are solid, though, and the ’80s details continue to be spot on. (At a fancy Valley restaurant, Donna stumbles over the pronunciation of a trendy new dish: risotto.) But any   period piece can recreate bygone days. “Halt” lets you see them as the cusp of bracing change. The real product in its tech business isn’t hardware or software  —   it’s tomorrow, and “Halt and Catch Fire” makes its past future feel dewy and new.