 (CNN) Here’s a look at the College Football Playoff, a   seeded postseason format which began for the 2014 season and replaced the Bowl Championship Series (BCS).  January 9, 2017   The Clemson Tigers defeat the Alabama Crimson Tide   to win the 2017 College Football Playoff National Championship.   Other Facts:The   selection committee selects and seeds the four playoff teams. (Number 1 will play Number 4 Number 2 will play Number 3). The original number of committee members was 13. The two winning teams of the semifinal games advance to the title game, which determines the Division I FBS college football national champion. This replaces the heavily criticized BCS postseason system, which ran from the   seasons and was often accused of unfairness relating to team selections. The College Football Playoff generates higher revenue than the BCS, resulting in ”at least double the annual revenue” for each of the 10 Football Bowl Subdivision (FBS) Conferences. The College Football Playoff trophy, presented to the championship team, is handmade, stands 26. 5 inches tall and is constructed from   gold, bronze and stainless steel. The playoff is contracted from the   season through at least the   season.  Selection Committee:The committee members, which include athletic directors, conference commissioners, former coaches and players, and former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, serve on staggered   terms. The 12 Selection Committee Members, After the ninth week of regular season play, the   selection committee begins ranking the top 25 teams on a weekly basis. The committee identifies and compares the top teams, then votes them into the rankings. Towards the end of the regular season, selection weekend takes place, where the committee determines the playoff matchups. The committee selects teams based on conference championship wins, overall   records, strength of schedule,    matchups and other criteria. The selection committee is also responsible for choosing the teams which play in the Cotton, Fiesta and Peach Bowls in years those bowls are not hosting the semifinal games. (The Rose, Sugar and Orange Bowls have previous existing contracts with conferences). Members are recused from voting when ”they or an immediate family member receives compensation from the school or has a professional relationship with that school.”  Bowl Game Locations:Semifinal playoff games rotate between the Sugar Bowl, Rose Bowl, Orange Bowl, Cotton Bowl, Chick   Peach Bowl and Fiesta Bowl. Cities interested in hosting the national championship game must submit a bid, in a process similar to bidding for a Super Bowl site. Timeline:June 26, 2012   A BCS oversight committee of university presidents approves the   seeded postseason format presented by the BCS commissioners, to begin in the 2014 season and continue through the 2025 regular season (2026 bowl games). November 21, 2012   ESPN announces it has obtained the rights for the new college football playoffs from 2014 through the 2025 season. April 23, 2013   The College Football Playoff is announced as the name of the new system to replace the BCS. October 16, 2013   The names of the 13 members of the selection committee are announced. January 6, 2014   The final BCS National Championship game is played in Pasadena, California. The Florida State Seminoles beat the Auburn Tigers  . July 14, 2014   The CFP National Championship trophy is unveiled. October 28, 2014   The selection committee begins issuing weekly rankings for the top 25 teams.  December   2014   Selection weekend takes place. The committee releases the matchups for the inaugural playoffs and for the other bowl games. January 1, 2015   The University of Oregon defeats Florida State University   in the 101st Rose Bowl game in Pasadena, California. In the Sugar Bowl, Ohio State University defeats University of Alabama   advancing to the first College Football Final against the Oregon Ducks in Arlington, Texas. January 12, 2015   The Ohio State Buckeyes defeat the Oregon Ducks   to win the inaugural College Football Playoff Championship.  Future National Championship Game Sites:2018     Stadium in Atlanta. 2019   Levi’s Stadium in Santa Clara, California. 2020     Superdome in New Orleans.