MARTIN R. ANDERSON, 65, squints to appreciate the geometry of paintings at the museum. Kate Davis, 24, says the sunlight that bounces off museum walls and onto the art can’t be reproduced. Stan Kaplan, 65, flies across the country just to see a Leonardo da Vinci drawing “more beautiful” than the Mona Lisa. And an elderly woman posts to Facebook a selfie of herself beside a masterwork, presumably commencing an avalanche of   approval. These were observations collected during a summer at New York City’s “newest” museum, the Met Breuer, an outpost of the Metropolitan Museum of Art that opened in March in the former home of the Whitney Museum of American Art. There’s not much theatrical about the scenes  —   unlike, say, the one that featured two teenagers in San Francisco who placed eyeglasses on the floor of an art museum so they could watch tourists gather around their “installation” with fascination. But taken together, they are a gauge  —   imperfect and impressionistic  —   of what draws people to museums and what they see when they get there. They are reflections of the times, too, reminders that art is digested in ways it wasn’t. Art rewards internalization, but distractions surround us. Cultural critique is instant, impulsive, and travels virally. We tried to find out what goes on in the mind of the modern museumgoer, unscientifically, by staking out the Met Breuer and interviewing nearly 50 art gazers over the course of two months, their pensive moments pierced by our questions as they peered at works. The setting was the Breuer’s big inaugural exhibition “Unfinished: Thoughts Left Visible,” as provocative a springboard for opinions as any. It focuses on the notion of “unfinished” art and does so broadly, displaying works that were never finished, works that are intentionally incomplete (non finito) and art that prompts conceptual discussion about what is complete, like a Jackson Pollock drip painting. The   exhibition  —   which ends its   run next weekend  —   spans the 1400s to today and features artists as varied as Titian, Andy Warhol and a teenage Pablo Picasso. As for those interviewed, they included students who said museums were like “eating your vegetables” and romantics who cherish their lunch breaks, when they can hop in a cab to go steal a few quiet minutes in front of a beloved painting they have already gazed at dozens of times before. A handful of works in particular generated the most comment (a deathbed portrait of an artist’s mistress, a painting of someone being skinned alive) and common themes emerged over time (the ubiquity of technology, people’s short attention spans). Here’s what museumgoers said. The artwork: “James Hunter Black Draftee” (1965) by Alice Neel Mr. Anderson’s take: “He probably did get killed because his family would have heard about this painting and said something by now. ” Another perspective: “When I saw this image in the advertisements, I saw it as contemporary, like an album cover. ”  —   Steve Wolkwitz, 25, a student The artwork: “  With Wig” ( ) by Pablo Picasso Ms. Kops’ take: “He was probably drunk. ” Another perspective: “I didn’t know it was a Picasso. And then like, whoa. It’s a Picasso. ”  —   Normandie Syken, 20, an illustrator  The artwork: “Untitled   (Green Paintings)” (circa 1986) by Cy Twombly Mr. Meyerhofer’s take: “I want to hate it, but it’s so good. ” “It’s awful algae green. But you can’t deny it. It grabs you. But part of me thinks it is so crude. ” The artwork: “The Flaying of Marsyas” (probably 1570s) by Titian Mr. Meyerhofer’s take: “It’s so violent and awful. My husband would say, ‘I wouldn’t want this on the wall of my living room.’ This must have been the equivalent of a horror movie back in the day. ” Another perspective: “You’re imagining what is he going to do with that knife. The bucket: Is it enough to hold? And his eyes  —   he can see the pain coming. ”  —   Stan Kaplan, 65, Los Angeles  The artwork: “The Vision of Saint John” ( ) by El Greco Ms. Campbell’s take: “It could have been a blue sky, but maybe it was going to be dark and stormy. ” Another perspective: “It’s so modern. And what’s with these crazy babies floating around?”  —   William Meyerhofer The artwork: “Head of a Woman (La Scapigliata)” ( ) by Leonardo da Vinci Mr. Miozzo’s take: “This is unfinished, but you can see the psychology of a character. It forces you to think what is in the mind of this young woman. It makes me think, Who was she? What was she thinking?” Another perspective: “I think about how much more beautiful she is than the Mona Lisa. ”  —   Stan Kaplan Another perspective: “You need to see this one with your own eyes. No reproduction I’ve seen comes close to this. ”  —   Martin R. Anderson The artwork: “You or Me” (2005) by Maria Lassnig Ms. Choi’s take: “It made me think about women in Korea, where I read that the suicide rate is [very high]. For some reason, I thought about that. ” Another perspective: “This is brave. She’s old. She’s overweight. Think about how courageous this is. ”  —   Michele Miozzo The artwork: “Cart Full of Action” (1986) by Cady Noland Ms. Davis’ take: “I don’t like this. I think the question is not even if it is finished but is this even art? I could see this in a parking lot. ” Another perspective: “This is what the artist is putting into the world. Nothing is a waste of space. ”  —   Tony White, 29, Louisville The artwork: “Gardanne” ( ) by Paul Cézanne Michelle Oliveira’s take: “The curious thing to me is why are these unfinished. What better thing did Picasso or Cézanne feel they needed to go and do? Grab a coffee? Go kiss a girl?” Nilza Oliveira’s take: “An artist is never finished so their art is never finished. When you finish it, you kill it. Leaving it unfinished, you keep it alive. ” The artwork: “Bouquet of Peonies in a Green Jar” (1898) by Paul Cézanne Mr. Scotch’s take: “Those empty spaces could be light. If you put more there, it’s almost too much information. Like this it is allowed to breathe. ” Another perspective: “There are only a few strokes here. But I can tell the petals feel velvet. ”  —   Michele Miozzo The artwork: “Valentine   on her Deathbed” by Ferdinand Hodler Mr. Breed’s take: “It’s not begging to be finished. ” Other perspectives: “I’ve seen a bunch of deathbed paintings. I didn’t realize it was a woman until I saw the feet. ”  —   Jeremy Cole, 24, designer, Toronto “There was something about coming out as a gay man in the ’80s and seeing so many of my friends dying that reminds me of this. ”  —   William Meyerhofer