Poverty is entrenched in the Mississippi city of Durant (population less than 3, 000) but violent crime is hardly pervasive. The Police Department website lists current statistics of one report each for lost property, theft and a harassing phone call. It has been years since Durant, which is about 65 miles north of Jackson, last recorded a murder, the authorities said. But on Thursday, that   sense of community and security was torn apart after two beloved nuns who worked at a medical clinic in a nearby town were found killed in their Durant home. The nuns were identified as Sister Margaret M. Held and Sister Paula J. Merrill, 68. The women were nurse practitioners who worked about 20 miles away at the Lexington Medical Clinic. Durant’s assistant police chief, James Lee, said an officer was sent to the sisters’ home around 10 a. m. to conduct what he called a wellness check after they did not show up at work. The door to the home was open, he said, and the officer found the bodies inside. The Rev. Greg Plata, the priest at St. Thomas the Apostle Church in Lexington, where the nuns were active, said he had been told by the police that they were stabbed. One of their cars, a blue Toyota Corolla, was missing. Warren Strain, a spokesman for the Mississippi Department of Public Safety, said the car was found abandoned Thursday evening on a secluded street barely a mile from the home, The Associated Press reported. Father Plata said the two women were the only ones who lived in the house. It was not clear if the killings were related to their work. He said they dressed in civilian attire, or scrubs when they were at work. Chief Lee said that he could not speculate about a motive and that a cause of death had yet to be officially determined. The   Police Department was being helped by the State Bureau of Investigation and the Holmes County Sheriff’s Department. “An actual   double homicide is an enigma,” he said, adding that the     house was in one of the quietest parts of the city and that the nuns would often jog or walk around the neighborhood. The Mississippi secretary of state, Delbert Hosemann, said in a statement that he hoped justice would be “swiftly served. ” He said the nuns had been violently killed, adding, “Unbridled love and care for mankind has been met with unparalleled savagery. ” Jamie Sample, 58, of Ebenezer, Miss. the music minister at St. Thomas the Apostle Church, said she had relied on the nuns for their “gorgeous voices” at Mass. “I just cannot tell you what precious people they were,” she said. “They were just the sweetest people to ever draw a breath into their bodies. ” She described the nuns as being like family. They spent time together at the holidays, and Ms. Sample’s husband and son took care of their home repairs. Ms. Sample added that whoever had killed the nuns was “the epitome of evil. ” She said Sister Margaret was an outstanding chef who regularly took delicious dishes to the church’s potluck events. Sister Paula’s nephew, David V. Merrill, 37, of Stoneham, Mass. recalled his aunt battling squirrels to grow blueberries in the backyard of their   ranch house. He said she enjoyed ministering to the needy of Holmes County, where 44 percent of the residents live below the poverty level  —   the   rate among the state’s 82 counties, according to census data. “The work, it was her calling from God,” Mr. Merrill said. “She lived and loved it every day. ” Mr. Merrill said his aunt had never expressed concern about her safety. He said the biggest misgiving in the community was about the abuse of opioids. Sister Paula was a native of Massachusetts who developed a Southern drawl but retained a New Englander’s cynicism, he said. Maureen Smith, the communications director of the Catholic Diocese of Jackson, Miss. said Sister Paula was from the Sisters of Charity of Nazareth, based in Kentucky, and Sister Margaret was from the School Sisters of St. Francis, in Milwaukee. The United States Province Leadership team for the School Sisters said in a statement that its members were “deeply shocked and grieved” by the killings. It noted that Sister Margaret had been with the order for 49 years and devoted herself to “living her ministry caring for and healing the poor. ” The two nuns had been sent by their orders to serve the poor throughout Mississippi. Sister Paula had spent 30 years in the state, the last six at the clinic, which saw 8, 000 patients last year. Four in 10 people in the county are uninsured or have only Medicaid, Ms. Smith said. The nuns were active in the church’s Bible study, Father Plata said, and were deeply connected to the congregation of about 30 parishioners. “People were attracted to them because of their goodness,” said Father Plata, who will be among the clergy members to say their funeral Mass.