The   RB singer Chris Brown was arrested by the Los Angeles police on Tuesday and charged with assault with a deadly weapon after an hourslong standoff with the police outside his Los   home, a police spokeswoman said. Mr. Brown, 27, was due to be processed, said Officer Rosario Herrera, a spokeswoman for the Los Angeles Police Department. She said the charge was a felony. Additional details on when and where he was arrested and the make and caliber of the weapon were not immediately available. Officers initially responded to a call, placed around 3 a. m. local time, from a woman seeking help at the residence in the Tarzana neighborhood of the San Fernando Valley. In a later interview with TMZ Live online, the woman, identified as Baylee Curran, an actress and former beauty pageant contestant, said Mr. Brown had pointed a gun at her while demanding that she leave his home. “Do you all honestly think I wanted this, and I caused this?” Ms. Curran said in a video posted to Instagram on Tuesday afternoon. “If somebody put a gun to your head, what would you do?” When officers arrived around 10 a. m. to talk to Mr. Brown, he declined to be questioned, the police said, opting instead to post video clips on his Instagram account. “When you get the warrant or whatever you need to do, you’re going to walk right up in here and you’re going to see nothing, you idiots,” Mr. Brown said while waving a lighted cigarette. “Every three months, y’all come up with something,” the singer continued, alluding to his repeated   with the law and invoking the Black Lives Matter movement. “What’s going to be next?” He added, “I’m innocent. ” Mark Geragos, a lawyer for Mr. Brown, did not immediately respond to a request for comment. While Mr. Brown appealed to social media, the Police Department’s   division set up outside the singer’s home as the authorities sought a search warrant. (A police spokesman said the unit often responded to calls involving celebrities.) Just before 1 p. m. local time, multiple individuals left the home and were searched by the police, who then entered the residence. Mr. Brown has had a bumpy career since he pleaded guilty in 2009 to assaulting his girlfriend at the time, the singer Rihanna. He was sentenced to five years’ probation but later served 108 days in jail after he was ejected from a rehabilitation center where he was being treated for   issues, violating the terms of his probation. In 2014, he pleaded guilty to hitting a man outside a Washington hotel and was sentenced to time served. Mr. Brown’s most recent album, “Royalty,” was released in December and is currently No. 171 on the Billboard album chart.