This is part of a series of articles devoted to summer vacations that had an enduring impact on a writer’s life. Other contributors include Sara Novic, Dominique Browning, Francine Prose and Jacqueline Woodson. In the late 1920s when the British poet Robert Graves asked Gertrude Stein to recommend somewhere to live that was not England, she advised him to move to Majorca. “It’s paradise,” she said, “if you can bear it. ” He could bear it and made the mountain village of Deia, 22 miles northwest of the capital, Palma, his home for the rest of his life. I often think about Stein’s cryptic comment when I recall my first vacation in this same village 30 years ago. I was 27 and living in London, and my new English boyfriend was approaching 40. I was excited about getting to know more about him in paradise for two weeks, but it would have been wiser to know less. On the third day of our vacation, my boyfriend declared that he had sunstroke. He was sweating profusely while we watched a tiny winged creature suck nectar from a flower. He said, that’s a hummingbird, and I said, no, it’s a bumblebee then he felt faint and needed to lie down in a dark room. All the rooms were dark in our   European pensione because the formidable owner of this establishment, her name was Isobel, insisted we keep the battered green wooden shutters closed during the day. There was no   and it was a sweltering August. According to Isobel, the three lazy brown hens that sat clucking all day under the shade of the lemon trees in the garden next door had stopped laying eggs because of the heat. Therefore she had taken eggs off the breakfast menu and replaced them with two plums instead. My companion was pleased the hens had gone on strike because he loathed eggs. I noticed that he starved himself during the day  —   “to keep his boyish figure” —   and saved his money for a hearty evening dinner. What we liked to eat most in this tranquil Majorcan village, framed by the mountains  —   the Serra de Tramuntana, which turned pink and gold at sunset  —   was grilled dorado served with dill, capers and bitter olive oil. We reserved the same table every night on the terrace of one particular restaurant. It had a view of the olive trees and the blazing purple bougainvillea that grew on the pretty Majorcan houses in the valley, all of them built from stone. While my boyfriend squeezed lemon onto his fish, he talked to me about parallel worlds and alternative realities. It was part science, part science fiction  —   and part something entirely personal to him. He laughed in a sophisticated and knowing manner when he explained to me how inferior he found the world in which he was obliged to earn money and pay the bills. He explained how parallel worlds coexist in the same space and time as our own universe and how he thought he had another life in one of those universes. I was in love with him and only half listening. It might be that to totally listen to him would undo the love and ruin my vacation. As we strolled back to our pensione after dinner, a sudden gust of hot wind blew sand and small insects into my eyes. In that moment, as I was temporarily blinded, he asked me to marry him. I pretended not to hear him, but when I could see again, the stars seemed extra bright in the night sky, the palm trees silver and ghostly, like another universe. I noted that we were very well matched when we played table tennis at the local bar. The owner of this bar had set up the table under the shade of a big old tree on which grew abundant clusters of scented white blossoms. We whizzed about with our little paddles, dodging the overhanging leaves and blossoms and wasps as we chased the ball and slammed it back to each other. I broke off a stem of the blossom and took it to our hotel room. After a while the scent was so overwhelming that I threw it out the window. On the days we had the energy to walk a mile through the lemon and olive orchards to the beach, we always swam together. Never solo. One of us would say, let’s go in, and we’d swim out for a while and then climb onto a flat rock that felt like a small private island, though it was not far from the shore. One morning as we were lazing in each other’s arms on this rock, the sea lapping beneath us, I saw a man standing on a smaller rock nearby. He was scooping up sea urchins and placing them in a yellow string bag he had tied to the waistband of his shorts. At the same time, my companion was telling me about an   who had accompanied him on a road trip to America 20 years earlier. Apparently, the whole Jack Kerouac legend was very much alive inside him in his younger days. In fact, all the beatnik boys in his hometown outside London wanted to be Jack. He wanted to be Jack, too. I pressed my toes against the soft moss that grew on the side of the rock and idly wondered if my boyfriend had Jack’s talent. For example, was he up all night typing spontaneous prose on an endless roll of paper until he got to The End? Was he in the running to have a School of Disembodied Poetics named after him? I returned to the task of not understanding why he talked about himself only through his   and parallel worlds. That was not a good sign, but I wanted to ignore all the signs, so I shifted my attention back to the man who was collecting sea urchins. He had a cut on his knee, but he was happy in the sunshine, jumping between rocks to scoop up the spiky urchins. I liked watching him because he was mucking about in the present tense while my boyfriend talked about the past. THE SALTY MEDITERRANEAN SEA has always been my particular pleasure. Especially in this bay where the water was so clear and cool. So I dived in from our special flat rock, a complicated maneuver involving precise judgment  —   I had to avoid the smaller sharp rocks nearby  —   and did a little flip under the water with my eyes open. When I surfaced, the man collecting sea urchins beckoned me over to take a look at the ball of black needles in his hand. He said the urchin was a delicacy, like caviar, much relished by sea otters and starfish. I expressed surprise at a starfish eating an urchin without being stung by its sharp spines, but he explained that the star lay on top of the urchin and smothered it. “I am going to let you taste this one,” he said, “but first we have to crack into it. ” The urchin man took out a pair of scissors he kept in the yellow string bag and cut into the shell. His fingers plunged inside the urchin and then he passed me the slimy orange sac that lurked within it. It was impolite not to accept the urchin roe after all that work, so I pretended it was an oyster and popped it into my mouth with incredible nonchalance. It was sweet and tasted of the ocean. I thanked the man, flipped back into the sea and swam back to the flat rock where my companion was staring at the sky, as if interrogating its blue immensity for parallel universes. The next day I went off on my hired moped to explore the pine forests in the mountains, while my boyfriend stayed in the pensione so he could lie on his back to realign his spine and calm his mind. When I returned (carrying three small green pine cones for him) he told me he had an   who designed a log cabin in a pine forest. She was also a model. I wondered if he was bragging because I had pretended not to hear his marriage proposal? We made our way to the terrace of the pensione and sat with Isobel at her table under a fig tree. She liked to crochet while her pregnant poodle lay on her lap, and she always sat on her special patroness chair, a throne made from straw, facing the ocean. A Swedish couple who were staying at the pensione walked onto the terrace with their ice blond    son. He was holding a small fish he had caught that day  —   it was slightly larger than a sardine. For some reason, he threw the fish at one of the cactuses that had been planted in a pot on the terrace. It missed and landed on the ground, whereupon the pregnant poodle jumped off Isobel’s lap and started to poke the silver fish with her paw. Isobel shouted something in Spanish and waved her hands at my boyfriend, as if she wanted him to do something. I saw that the forlorn fish still had a sharp hook embedded in its mouth, so I ran toward the plump gray poodle and removed it from her paw. When I looked up, my boyfriend was brushing his hair. “This has happened before,” he said. “This has happened in a parallel universe. ” The poodle started to whimper. I stared at the hairbrush. Would it float above his head and tap the warm air, searching for a seam to rip open another reality? The next day I changed my airplane ticket and headed, solo, to London. It was cold and it was raining. Despite its being August, everyone who was in town and not on vacation had turned on their heating. I was so happy to be home. Majorca was paradise but I could not bear it.