Losing 650 pounds is a remarkable achievement, but it does not mean the end of your troubles. It has been more than six years since Paul Mason, who once weighed 980 pounds and could not move from his bed, pulled himself back to life with gastric bypass surgery and his own strength of will. But he still carries his past with him. On Wednesday, Mr. Mason, who is 55 and now lives in rural Athol, Mass. took another important step in a process that has been long and uneven, marked by small triumphs and unexpected setbacks. He had the second of two surgeries to eliminate the excess skin that enveloped his body like a shroud. Fifty pounds of it was removed from his abdomen last year this time, about 10 pounds’ worth was excised from his arms and hip in a multihour operation in Manhattan. It may not sound like much. But imagine how it would feel, for instance, to have a loose sac weighing three pounds attached to the bottom of each of your upper arms. The skin not only swung down in a huge arc but also rubbed against itself, a constant reminder of the person Mr. Mason so wants to put behind him. “I still feel trapped in this excess skin,” Mr. Mason said from his bed on Wednesday morning, as the surgeons marked his body for the operation. “This will be   for me again. ” The surgery was again performed without charge at Lenox Hill Hospital on the Upper East Side of Manhattan by a team of seven led by three doctors from three different hospitals. It was painstaking, precise and extraordinarily complex. Cutting off a mass of extra skin, as anyone who has been obese and has lost a great deal of weight knows, is not a matter of simply taking a scalpel, snipping it away and stitching it up. “The three of us spent a long time figuring out how to deal with the reality of his arms  —   the amount of excess skin is far beyond what we can normally handle,” said Dr. Jennifer Capla, who performed the surgery along with two longtime colleagues: Dr. Joseph Michaels, a plastic surgeon in Bethesda, Md. and Dr. J. Peter Rubin, chairman of the plastic surgery department at the University of Pittsburgh. The team had to work out where to make the incisions, far trickier in this case than in most. There was also the question of the dozens of enlarged blood vessels that had to be cut along with the skin. Because Mr. Mason needed anticoagulants to prevent blood clots, the worry was that if the blood vessels were not thoroughly sealed, they could bleed out of control. “In normal life, we either clip or cauterize or tie a vessel,” Dr. Capla said. “In Paul’s case, we have to do all three for each one. ” The British tabloids used to call Mr. Mason the world’s fattest man. Before he had the gastric bypass surgery, in 2010, he had been in bed, in Ipswich, England, off and on for a decade. Abused as a child and deeply depressed, he had whittled his life to its barest essentials, an endless, awful repetition: doze, eat, doze, eat, eat, eat without respite. Food was his sole comfort and his constant torment. When he finally left the house for his initial surgery, the fire department had to knock down a wall and remove him with a forklift. Mr. Mason moved to the United States when Dr. Capla, having read about him in The New York Times, volunteered to take charge of the   surgery no doctor in Britain had been willing to attempt. About the same time, Mr. Mason embarked on a Facebook relationship with a woman named Rebecca Mountain who had read about him and eventually invited him to move in with her in Massachusetts. They were engaged to be married she was by his side during his operation last year. There have since been a number of changes in Mr. Mason’s life, both positive and not, some chronicled on an intermittent TLC series about him. He and Ms. Mountain split up last year under the burden of financial worries and the stresses of living together with so much else going on. Mr. Mason now lives in an apartment in a rooming house. He has had a couple of other brief relationships, but none have worked out. “I don’t have much of a social life,” he said. After the surgery last year, he got his weight down to about 310 pounds, started walking and began working out at a gym. But he’s back around 350 pounds and has had several setbacks. He has arthritis in both knees. He is prone to frequent infections in one leg and requires intermittent hospitalization. Though no longer in a wheelchair, he walks rather painstakingly, with a cane. After the latest surgery, Mr. Mason said, he plans to address his arthritis, start exercising again and eventually buy a car. Money is tight, but he supports himself on a private pension from his earnings as a postal worker years ago, the last steady job he had. While he recovers, he is staying at a Manhattan hotel, his room paid for by an anonymous donor whose mother died of complications from obesity some years ago. The three doctors said that Mr. Mason’s case was the most extreme they had ever worked on. Beyond that, they said, it has resonance at a time when obesity is an epidemic and many obese patients are unaware of the repercussions of extensive weight loss. “They’re left with so many psychological scars,” Dr. Michaels said, in addition to the excess skin and other physical problems left behind. Dr. Capla said she feels protective of Mr. Mason, who can seem so vulnerable, but who has persevered nonetheless. “You have to figure out what you want to live for,” she said. “For someone who’s so emotionally complicated, who could have given up many times  —   he hasn’t. It’s one of the most interesting parts of it, that you have someone who seems to have every reason to throw in the towel, and yet who has fought all the way. ”