WHAT does it take to herd about 15 dead cats in Victorian dress to a wedding in Brooklyn? More than two years of trying, apparently, followed by some   strokes of luck. That, at least, is what was required to get “The Kittens’ Wedding,” an elaborate tableau by the Victorian taxidermist Walter Potter, to the Morbid Anatomy Museum, where it is the eerily commanding centerpiece of the new exhibition “Taxidermy: Art, Science  Immortality. ” “It’s such a perfect object, with a tension between the perverse and the adorable,” Joanna Ebenstein, the museum’s   and creative director, said in a telephone conversation a few days before the piece’s installation. “I think it will really shock people. ” Mr. Potter ( ) is considered a master of visionary taxidermy, familiar to generations of British vacationers who passed through his homespun museum in Sussex, England, where hundreds of pieces  —   from single specimens to elaborate tableaus featuring kittens, frogs, birds and rats in all manner of humanlike situations  —   were displayed cheek by jowl. “The Kittens’ Wedding,” completed in the 1890s, shows a wedding party gathered solemnly at an altar. (One   gentleman, it must be noted, bears a striking resemblance to Winston Churchill.) It is not the largest of Potter’s tableaus, but it is the only one in which the animals are fully clothed, right down to frilly undergarments properly out of sight. The Morbid Anatomy show, running through Nov. 6, is the first formal exhibition of a Potter piece in the United States, Ms. Ebenstein said. But his work has had previous brushes with   respectability. In 2001, “The Kittens’ Wedding” was shown at the Victoria  Albert Museum in London, as part of the exhibition “The Victorian Vision. ” In 2003, when the entire Potter collection was put up for auction, the artist Damien Hirst offered a million pounds (about $1. 6 million at the time) to halt the sale and keep the collection intact, despite having his doubts about the   Mr. Potter’s technical skills. “You can see he knew very little about anatomy and musculature,” Mr. Hirst wrote in The Guardian after his offer was rebuffed. “The kittens don’t look very much like kittens,” he added, “but that’s not the point. ” Getting Mr. Potter’s work to Brooklyn has been something of a personal quest for Ms. Ebenstein, the   with Pat Morris, of the book “Walter Potter’s Curious World of Taxidermy. ” When the museum moved into its   building in Gowanus in 2014, Ms. Ebenstein wanted to open with an exhibition of his work, but borrowing the often unwieldy pieces from   collectors was too expensive. Then, this year, Ms. Ebenstein heard that “The Kittens’ Wedding” had been bought at auction for nearly $120, 000 by J. D. Powe, an educational software entrepreneur and collector who had previously lent pieces to the museum, in partnership with Antediluvian Antiques  Curiosities, a dealer in Lake Placid, N. Y. It was subsequently sold to Sabrina Hansen, the founder of a cat sanctuary in Catskill, N. Y. who agreed to the loan. “Some people dismiss his work as Victorian whimsy, but it’s really an extraordinary piece,” Ms. Hansen, who also owns a Potter featuring a monkey riding a goat, said in an interview. “The way he twists their little heads around, it really tells a whole story. ” At Morbid Anatomy, which is dedicated to what Ms. Ebenstein likes to call objects that “fall between the cracks” of conventional categories, Potter’s feline wedding is displayed along with more than 100 other pieces involving artfully preserved animals. “We have squirrels playing cards, some frogs being spanked, a drunk monkey,” Ms. Ebenstein said, rattling off some anthropomorphic highlights. There’s also an elaborate diorama, created in Paris around 1820, showing a crew of mice hard at work in a miniature paper factory. (A number of pieces are owned by Mr. Powe, curator of the exhibition.) There are specimens of extinct species like the passenger pigeon and the heath hen, and sections dedicated to oddities (  walrus, anyone?) and to bad taxidermy, as well as what Ms. Ebenstein called a “wall of pets”  —   mostly dogs, lovingly presented in shadow boxes evoking eternal repose in the living room. Taxidermy was a common hobby in Potter’s time, considered a suitable pastime even for genteel ladies. But Ms. Ebenstein said that she saw Mr. Potter less as a taxidermist than as “a folk artist who used animals as his medium. ” That medium may cause discomfort in our era of vegan purses and   shelters. In the later years of Mr. Potter’s museum, its proprietors felt compelled to post a sign claiming, perhaps wishfully, that no animals had been killed specifically to make Mr. Potter’s tableaus. Ms. Ebenstein, who said that most of the instructors at Morbid Anatomy’s popular taxidermy classes are animal rights activists and vegetarians, struck a note that was both    and philosophical. “This was the Victorian era, before cats were routinely spayed or neutered, and unwanted kittens were routinely drowned,” she said. “This isn’t something happy, but it’s true. ” “If an animal is going to die,” she said, “why not make something beautiful and memorable out of it?”