  mothers.   fathers. Disapproving elders. Parents who warn about regrets. Others whose financial limits were a statement of their values. A week ago, I asked you to send me the best questions you’ve ever asked, or answered, about money, and published seven queries to start the conversation. Of the five best new ones that arrived in the last week, every one came with a story about a parent like the ones described above. This shouldn’t come as an enormous surprise. After all, what we spend, save and give says a lot about who we are. Value and values are just a letter apart, and given how much influence our parents often have on the latter, it makes perfect sense that we think of them when we ponder our financial situations as well. So consider the following five questions, or adapt them to your own financial forks in the road as needed. And if your parents are alive, ask them, too, though you may already know what they will say. Where are we staying in Florida? When Jan Even was in second grade in River Forest, Ill. many of her classmates discussed their pending spring break plans. Some were going to Fort Lauderdale. Others were headed to Sarasota. “I just kind of thought that we were going, too, and that my parents hadn’t told me yet,” she recalled. But they weren’t going, and when she asked about the family’s destination, here’s how her mother replied: It’s more important for you to be able to go to college at age 18 than it is for us to go to Florida now. Ms. Even’s family had enough money that this wasn’t a   so much as a conscious choice. Both her parents grew up during the Depression, and her mother told stories of people coming to the back door of their farmhouse looking for food and Ms. Even’s grandmother feeding them dinner. Children make many assumptions about their lives and the lives of others based on where we choose to raise them. So you can’t fault Ms. Even, who is now 66 and lives in Redmond, Ore. for wondering aloud when she was young. Nor can you fault her parents for enforcing a bit of artificial deprivation. “Maybe they really were concerned about the money, but I think it was more an expression of their values,” she said. They did eventually take her to Florida  —   but not until senior year in high school, when the college fund was safe and she was six months away from starting at Northwestern University. Can you accept the fact that we can’t live the same life that you do? Plenty of parents hope that their children will climb at least one rung up the social class ladder once they are adults, and many more will fight hard to keep their children from slipping even a bit. So it can be jarring for parents when their adult children don’t strive for the same things they do. A reader in Baton Rouge, La. who did not want to use her name because she didn’t think her relatives would appreciate her sharing the story publicly, wrote in to describe the pressure she and her husband once felt to buy and spend and own and live the way that other, more established family members did. They ran up credit card debt before realizing they couldn’t keep up and didn’t really want to, either. Then, they had to gently explain to their family how they felt. “Sometimes, I think it’s easier to talk about sex with your parents than money,” she told me via email. “We choose a simple life. Experiences over possessions. ” Her note reminded me of one of the most haunting things I’ve ever read about families and money. In her book “A Wealth of Possibilities,” Ellen Miley Perry described the “centrifugal force” of abundance that swirls around financially successful families. And she described an acquaintance who summed up her relationship with her father this way: “He can’t accept the smallness of my dreams. ” What would you do if you weren’t afraid? In 2001, Daniel L. Anderson and his family were living in Reno, Nev. and loving the easy access to the outdoors, the low cost of living and the good schools. But he was slowly growing bored with his real estate job. He posted his résumé online and soon had a promising job offer in Houston. He also sought advice from his old mentor, who eventually offered him a different job in San Francisco, and then put that pointed question to Mr. Anderson when he wavered. The Houston company had a reputation as a terrific place to work. The word on the San Francisco employer was much more mixed. “His question caused me to   my situation to make sure I wasn’t doing what was easy and comfortable,” Mr. Anderson recalled, adding that he had to get over a bit of macho denial about his own fear before he could really think it through. There were also the stories his mother told him about all of her retired friends who talked about their regrets over the roads not taken. “I did not want to be that person,” he said. Which is how he ended up moving to Walnut Creek, Calif. where his family thrived. And how he turned down the attractive offer from a company called Enron. What good is having a lot in the bank if you’ve never let yourself live? Lisa and Janice Woolery both grew up in   families that didn’t have much money, and in their life together as a couple, they have been fairly careful. There is no mortgage on their home in Des Moines, and they’ve saved money for retirement. “But when you do some of those rather extensive retirement planning programs online, you just feel defeated,” Lisa said. “You start saying, ‘I’m going to die someday, and I want to live in a way that lets me do things that I have been putting off. ’” For the two of them, both 55, that means travel of the sort that might have felt fiscally irresponsible in previous years. New Zealand is high on their list. In an interview this week, I asked Lisa whether they’d been able to answer their big question in a way that had allowed them to put a trip like that on the calendar. “Not in the next year or two, yet,” she said. “But. ” Then a long pause. “It’s a   …    ” Then a deep sigh. “The safe answer is the answer I know to use,” she said finally. “Low to no risk. But at what point do you say that low to no risk isn’t living?” As I was writing this column, she followed up with an email. They’d booked a couples getaway to San Francisco, a place that holds fond memories for them from travel earlier in their relationship. It’s a good start. What is the most satisfying thing you’ve spent money on? By the time she’d scraped her way through college and graduate school, Trudelle Thomas recognized that she had inherited some heavy generational baggage from the Great Depression. So Ms. Thomas, an English professor at Xavier University, went to work on herself to see if she could derive more joy from the money that she chose to spend. When she finally persuaded herself to buy a new car, she didn’t draw much additional satisfaction from it. Nice meals out were often unhealthy and expensive. What she enjoyed much more, however, was the money she spent on and with others. She tithes and has contributed to the National Alliance on Mental Illness for a long enough period to feel as if she has been part of important policy changes. Another regular habit: taking her students, many of whom could not afford it, out for lunch in the campus cafeteria. And a few years ago, she took a niece, who otherwise might not have been able to travel, on a trip to California. She liked to dote on people, as she put it, and she reminded me that “thrive” is the root word of thrift. “My niece could think of me as her rich aunt,” she said. “But I want her to think of me as her thrifty aunt who splurges on her. ”