 (CNN) Donald Trump’s tough talk about Latinos and   failed to send enough voters in these groups into the arms of Hillary Clinton. Some 88% of black voters supported Clinton, versus 8% for Trump, who said repeatedly that black communities are in the worst shape ever.  While that’s a large margin, it’s not as big as President Barack Obama’s victory over Mitt Romney in 2012. Obama locked up 93% of the black vote to Romney’s 7%. Read: Trump: Black communities in worst shape ’ever, ever, ever, Clinton’s hold over Latinos was even more tenuous, despite Trump accusing undocumented immigrants of being criminal aliens and promising to deport them.  Only 65% of Latinos supported her, while 29% cast their votes for Trump. In 2012, Obama won 71% of the Hispanic vote, while Romney secured 27%. Read: What Donald Trump has said about Mexico and vice versa, Clinton also failed to capture as many young voters, who flocked to her rival Bernie Sanders in the primary and to Obama four years ago.  She won 54% of voters age 18 to 29, compared to 37% who cast ballots for Trump. But Obama secured 60% of these young voters to Romney’s 37%.    As of 11:45 p. m. Rust belt states agree with Trump that trade costs jobs, Donald Trump made trade a key message in his campaign. He promised to bring back the manufacturing jobs that he said were lost to trade deals. Large shares of voters in key rust belt states key to Hillary Clinton’s electoral map agreed with Trump’s view that trade agreements have hurt American workers. And they overwhelmingly supported the billionaire businessman at the ballot box. Read: Trump check: Has NAFTA ’destroyed our country’? Half of Michigan’s electorate feel trade takes away jobs, and these folks supported Trump by a 57% to 36% split. The 31% who think it creates jobs backed Clinton by a 65% to 31% margin. In Ohio, 47% of voters say trade hurts workers, and they lined up for Trump by a more than    margin. The 46% who say it creates jobs or has no effect strongly backed Clinton. Read: Mexicans brace for possible Trump win, And in Pennsylvania, 53% of the electorate agree that trade is bad for jobs. Some 62% supported Trump, while 34% backed Clinton. Among the 35% who feel trade is a job creator, Clinton was the favored candidate by more than a    margin.    of 10:19 p. m. Few Michigan voters feel job situation is getting worse, Michigan was hit hard by the Great Recession and the shift of manufacturing jobs overseas. But the economy has improved there in recent years. Some 39% of voters said that the job situation in their area is better than four years ago and 36% said it was about the same. Only   said it was worse. Hillary Clinton handily won the vote of those who feel things have improved, by a 73% to 21% margin, and more narrowly among those who think the situation is about the same, by a 46% to 44% split.  But some 70% of those with a more dour view voted for Donald Trump, compared to 21% for his Democratic rival. Some 37% of Michigan voters feel their family’s financial situation has improved, and they overwhelmingly supported Clinton. However, those who felt their finances are the same cast their votes for Trump, by a 49% to 41% margin. Just under a quarter think their situation have worsened, and they were in the Trump camp.    As of 9:37 p. m. More college educated and people of color voting in Florida, Florida remains too close to project at the moment, but it is already clear from early exit poll data that more college educated residents and people of color came out to vote this year in the Sunshine State compared to 2012. College graduates made up 52% of Florida voters this year, compared to 48% in 2012. And while college grads generally are thought to favor Clinton, they were evenly divided in Florida. Some 61% of voters were white this year, compared to 67% four years ago. Another 15% were black, up from 13% and 18% were Hispanic, compared to 17% in 2012. Whites favored Trump by a 62% to 34% margin, while blacks supported Clinton by an 84% to 7% split and Hispanics by a 62% to 33% vote. Read: In Florida, It’s retirees versus Latinos, Barack Obama won Florida four years ago.    As of 8:24 p. m. Voters split on change vs. experience, Let’s dig down into two key states, Virginia and Georgia, where the polls closed at 7 p. m. ET. In Virginia, four in 10 of voters were looking for a change candidate, and those voters selected Donald Trump by a 79% to 15% split. About a quarter of the electorate wanted a candidate with the right experience. Among these   Clinton took 89% of the vote, while Trump received 8%. And about one in five voters said having good judgment is the most important quality in a candidate. Among these folks, Clinton captured 67% of the vote and Trump got 24%. In Georgia, just over a quarter of the electorate was angry with the federal government, and 41% were dissatisfied. These folks favored Trump by a 77% to 17% margin for the former, and 51% to 41% for the latter. Read: Working class whites blame Washington, but still want more government help, A quarter of Peach State voters were satisfied. They backed Clinton by 81% to 14%. As of 7:30 p. m. Voters Scared and concerned if either Trump or Clinton wins, More than half of the nation’s voters would feel concerned or scared if either Hillary Clinton or Donald Trump are elected, according to early exit polls. Some 58% of the electorate said they would feel this way if Trump wins, while 53% would be concerned or scared if Clinton comes out on top. Only 39% would be excited or optimistic about a Trump presidency and 43% about another Clinton in the White House. Also, voters generally don’t like either candidate. Some 54% of the electorate have an unfavorable opinion of Clinton, while 61% have a similar view of Trump. Their favorability ratings come in at 44% for Clinton and 37% for Trump. Trump’s treatment of women did not sit well with many voters. Some 71% said it bothers them. Read: Trump faces more groping allegations, Meanwhile, 62% said that Clinton’s use of private email bothers them. Read: Hillary Clinton’s email controversy, explained,    As of 7:25 p. m. More Latinos, Asians voting, The nation’s electorate is getting a little less white. Some 70% of voters Tuesday were white, compared with 72% four years ago. The share of black voters also slipped to 12% down from 13%. Read: The decline of the white voter: How the electorate has changed in 2016, Meanwhile, the Latino voting population ticked up to 11% from 10% and the Asian to 4% from 3%.    As of 6 p. m. Voters like their candidate, Throughout the campaign, many Americans said they would have to choose between the lesser of two evils. But when it came time to go to the polls, 42% of voters said they strongly favor their candidate. Only 25% said their vote was based on the dislike of the other options. Another 31% said they like their candidate, but they have reservations. Read: Voters say this is the ultimate ’lesser of two evils’ election,    As of 6:10 p. m.  Voters made decision before September, Voters made up their mind whom to vote for a long time ago, according to early exit poll data. Some 62% of voters decided before September whom their candidate would be. Another 26% decided in either September or October.  But only 12% decided over the past week or in the last few days. This suggests that the recent revelations of the FBI reopening and then closing its investigation into Hillary Clinton’s emails and Donald Trump’s ”locker room” talk and accusations of inappropriate sexual behavior did not have much impact on Americans as they went to the polls.    of 5:30 p. m. Voters not excited about Clinton or Trump, Not much of a choice. That’s how many voters feel about this year’s presidential candidates. Only about four in 10 voters said they would be excited or optimistic about either Hillary Clinton or Donald Trump in the White House next year, according to early exit polls. That contrasts with their view of the current president. Some 54% of voters going to the polls today said they approve of the job Barack Obama is doing as president. And while there’s been lot of talk by Donald Trump about the election being rigged, about eight in 10 said they were at least somewhat confident that the results of the election would be counted accurately. The economy remains the most important issue for majority of voters, but Americans were about evenly split on which candidate would better handle the economy. Read: Are you better off than eight years ago? Having a change candidate is the top priority for about four in 10 voters, but just over one in five said they wanted a candidate with experience or judgment.    As of 5 p. m. These figures will change and be updated throughout the evening. Please check CNN’s Election Center for the most updated data.