Eleven years ago, Lonnie G. Bunch III was a museum director with no museum. No land. No building. Not even a collection. He had been appointed to lead the nascent National Museum of African American History and Culture. The concept had survived a bruising, racially charged congressional battle that stretched back decades and finally ended in 2003 when President George W. Bush authorized a national museum dedicated to the   experience. Now all Mr. Bunch and a team of colleagues had to do was find an unprecedented number of private donors willing to finance a public museum. They had to secure hundreds of millions of additional dollars from a Congress, Republican controlled, that had long fought the project. And they had to counter efforts to locate the museum not at the center of Washington’s cultural landscape on the National Mall, but several blocks offstage. “I knew it was going to be hard, but not how hard it was going to be,” Mr. Bunch, 63, said in an interview last month. In less than three weeks, though, with President Obama presiding, the new museum, a project that once thirsted for money, land and political support, is scheduled to open on the Mall. Visitors to the $540 million building, designed to resemble a   crown, will encounter the sweeping history of black America from the Middle Passage of slavery to the achievements and complexities of modern black life. But also compelling is the story of how the museum itself came to be through a combination of negotiation, diplomacy, persistence and cunning political instincts. The strategy included an approach that framed the museum as an institution for all Americans, one that depicted the black experience, as Mr. Bunch often puts it, as “the quintessential American story” of measured progress and remarkable achievement after an ugly period of painful oppression. The tactics included the appointment of Republicans like Laura Bush and Colin L. Powell to the museum’s board to broaden bipartisan support beyond Democratic constituencies, and there were critical efforts to shape the thinking of essential political leaders. Long before its building was complete, for example, the museum staged exhibitions   some on the fraught topics it would confront, such as Thomas Jefferson’s deep involvement with slavery. A Virginia delegation of congressional members was brought through for an early tour of the Jefferson exhibition, which featured a statue of him in front of a semicircular wall marked with 612 names of people he had owned. “I remember being very impacted,” said Eric Cantor, then the House Republican leader, who was part of the delegation. Mr. Bunch said that he hoped the Jefferson exhibition   criticism by establishing the museum’s bold but balanced approach to difficult material. “Some people were like, ‘How dare you equate Jefferson with slavery,’” he recalled. “But it means that people are going to say, ‘Of course, that is what they have to do. ’” And the museum began an exceptional effort to raise money from black donors, not only celebrities, like Michael Jordan ($5 million) and Oprah Winfrey ($21 million) but also churches, sororities and fraternities, which, Mr. Bunch said, had never been asked for big donations before. Nearly   of the gifts from individuals were from  . An unusually high amount  —   $4 million  —   came from average people in gifts of less than $1, 000. “We were able to raise a level of awareness that really galvanized people to make small contributions,” said Kenneth I. Chenault, the chief executive of American Express, who led the capital campaign. “Based on their income level, some of them on a percentage basis were significant. ” The Alfred Street Baptist Church, in Alexandria, Va. donated $1 million to the museum, while three couples who belong to the church gave individual contributions totaling an additional $4 million. “There is no doubt that we knew you couldn’t build this with   money alone,” Mr. Bunch said, “but we also know that there was much more money in this community than most cultural institutions had ever tapped. ” The idea of a national   museum had been hatched more than a century ago by black Civil War veterans. It picked up a bit of steam in Congress in the 1980s, led by Representative John Lewis, Democrat of Georgia, who joined the efforts of Mickey Leland, the Texas Democrat. For 15 years, though, a bill to create the museum was defeated. “Once Congress gives the go ahead for ” Senator Jesse Helms, an opponent, warned in a 1994 speech on the Senate floor, “how can Congress then say no to Hispanics, and the next group, and the next group after that?” But in 2003, after winning support from Republicans like Senator Sam Brownback of Kansas, the museum escaped from the congressional back burner. “The   community has had a particularly difficult road in the United States,” Mr. Brownback, who is now governor of Kansas, said in an interview. “It was time. ” Even with congressional and presidential support, the battle to find a spot on the Mall dragged on. Congress had rejected a site near the Capitol. Critics said the Mall was already too crowded. The World War II Memorial had only opened there in 2004. “It was bad timing,” said Judge Robert L. Wilkins, who led the   committee on a commission that made recommendations to Congress. He and other museum supporters ultimately argued successfully to the Smithsonian’s Board of Regents that a prime location would, among other things, guarantee the most visitors and the most   success. In 2006, the Regents chose a   site on the Mall near the Washington Monument. Private   had to be much more of a concern for this federal museum, the 19th in the Smithsonian portfolio. Its predecessors had received public funds for all or most of their building costs. But the legislation that created the   museum authorized the government to pay for only half. Mr. Bunch had to raise the other $270 million from private donors. Foundations helped with major gifts, and the museum identified companies likely to give. Some had expressed an interest in diversity or were led by people familiar to the museum’s board. Mr. Bunch made hundreds of trips to meet donors. His pitch: “You don’t get a chance to build a national museum every day. ” The private money was crucial in securing funds from Congress, officials said. It showed politicians how seriously their constituents were taking the museum. A membership program that has become one of the most popular in the Smithsonian demonstrated public support from individual congressional districts. Also crucial, multiple people said, was the canny persistence of Mr. Bunch, who had intimate experience with Chicago politics and who had honed his skills as a facilitator while president of the historical society there. Those skills helped him when he turned to the byzantine entanglements of the Smithsonian, of Washington and of the federal government. “You cannot be a director at a place like the Smithsonian without being political,” Mr. Bunch said. He made allies on the Hill before asking them for money. His first supporters were friends from Chicago, like Senator Dick Durbin, and then others, like Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina. “He has a really good demeanor for a particularly touchy subject in the United States,” said Governor Brownback. “He needed to have an optimistic outlook. This is not about retribution. ” To maintain   momentum, the museum tried to exist in some fashion long before the construction materials had even been delivered. “We had to be real from the very beginning,” Mr. Bunch said, so that people would understand that the museum was not a dream but inevitable. So the museum put out books, asked IBM to create a website, and staged exhibitions at the National Museum of American History. One of the first, in 2009, focused on the Scurlock family of black Washington photographers. Beyond land and money, the new museum needed things to show and a building to show them in. No Smithsonian museum had ever started life without a collection. The museum’s team collected artifacts from around the nation in an “Antiques Roadshow”  program in 15 cities called “Save Our African American Treasures. ” The program yielded many of the 40, 000 objects the museum now holds  —   3, 500 will be exhibited when the building opens  —   and elevated the museum’s profile. For the design of their new home, museum officials created a selection committee and displayed the final six plans at the Smithsonian Castle in an effort to be transparent about the process. The winning design, by a team led by the   British architect David Adjaye, spoke of “uplift, resiliency and spirituality,” Mr. Bunch said, and the bronze color gave the building the symbolism he sought. “I love the notion of a darker building,” he said, adding: “There’s always been a dark presence in America. There have always been   in this country shaping it whose story gets overlooked or undervalued. ” It was also a vast departure from some of the design proposals he had been sent within days of his appointment as director in 2005. One envisioned a building shaped like a   fist, hardly appropriate for the museum he foresaw or that Congress had agreed to finance. He quickly moved on to other options. “I knew what I didn’t want,” he said.