Editors’ Note: The Times has published starred reviews of restaurants in the New York metropolitan area since 1963. Starting today, we will occasionally offer such reviews of restaurants in other cities as well, applying the same standards that govern our reviews in New York: a minimum of three anonymous visits to the restaurant. SANTA MONICA, Calif.  —   On my table at Cassia was a thick, black, gnarled pig tail. The menu said it was grilled, but I was ready to believe it had been incinerated in a rage, as if I had mortally insulted the chef and serving me this stick of carbon were his revenge. But the nice woman waiting on me didn’t seem to think anything was wrong. She seemed excited for me. Would I like her to cut it up, she asked? “Um,” I began. Before I finished, she slid a knife’s point down the length of the tail. “I want to make sure you really get all the meat,” she said, lifting out links of bone. “Sometimes I see people serving themselves, and they don’t get into it the right way. ” She got into it, all right, leaving me with a heap of meat, soft fat and skin. It was not nearly as annihilated as it looked at first glance. I rolled a forkful or two into a curl of Bibb lettuce with some Thai basil, cilantro and laksa leaf, and dipped it into nuoc cham. The antiphony of char and fat, cool leaves and warm grease, fish sauce and green herbs is in the end a simple thing. Or it would be simple if Vietnamese stalls across the United States sold grilled pig tails. One of the most appealing things about Cassia, a   restaurant here, is its pointed lack of interest in being confrontational, as my meeting with the pig tail illustrates. The restaurant goes out of its way to be accommodating, without doing too much violence to the various Asian cuisines that inspire much of the menu. Bryant Ng, the chef, isn’t in the business of scrawling his signature on other countries’ cultures. He doesn’t max out the fat and the funk, the standard tactic now for American cooks who want to let it be known that they are down with Asian cuisines. He’s more focused on balance than extremes. Mr. Ng owns Cassia with his wife, Kim Ng, and another couple, Josh Loeb and Zoe Nathan, who among other places run an impressive wine bar nearby called Rustic Canyon. The idea of Cassia was to flesh out the ideas Mr. Ng developed at his last restaurant, the Spice Table, within the framework of a busy,   brasserie. A whiff of blazing wood drifts across the menu and around the restaurant, which would look like an aircraft hangar if it weren’t broken up by an open grill, an   counter and a bar where seats have a view of Seventh Street beyond a mountain range of liquor bottles. As if you were at La Coupole, you could start with a shellfish platter, although here you’d be working your way from oysters with a lime and   mignonette and a sambal cocktail sauce, to   claws with a chunky and   romesco, to chilled prawns that taste of garlic, laksa leaf and smoke. Another portal into a meal, one that better suggests the kitchen’s reach, is a charcuterie plate: thin mahogany slices of lamb ham a floppy, spicy sausage something like mortadella crossed with ’nduja spoonfuls of salty pork fat, melting away under bread warm off the grill strips of Singaporean candied bacon a slab of Vietnamese pork meatloaf, liberated from banh mi at last, and excellent with some chopped fermented cabbage. The only dull item of the bunch was the smoked curried duck, a bit dry and not especially curried. The cabbage relish may or may not be Mr. Ng’s homage to choucroute, but his    has more obvious ancestors. The clarity and focus of the broth, along with the tenderness of the braised short rib, come from the classic French pot roast the star anise and cinnamon in the broth are borrowed from Vietnamese pho. The short rib had something in common with corned beef, too, which along with the cabbage and mustard made me wonder whether the Irish weren’t also mixed up in this remarkable dish somehow. It’s the lamb breast, though, that really shows off Mr. Ng’s skill for harnessing the energies of his ingredients. Cumin seeds and Sichuan peppercorns have been stuck on the meat, and then a big   gob of sambal has been dropped on top. Sesame sauce and a bed of jasmine rice lap up the spices. The dish could have landed like a brick to the back of the head, but its powerful flavors are handled with some delicacy. Nothing about Cassia is small. Not the dining room, not the menu, not the   wine list, which covers about 80 bottles from Europe and the West Coast, and not the portions, which are really and truly meant for sharing. My table of three never made it to the bottom of a bowl of chickpeas sunk in a lush coconut yellow curry, as delicious as they were pinched in crisp triangles of flatbread from the clay oven. I left some of the charcuterie fried rice behind, too, even though I’d kept going back in for another taste of sweet lap cheong, pork fat and salted fish long after I’d stopped feeling hungry. On the other hand, my appetite was still intact when I lost interest in the jellyfish salad, the name an unsuccessful attempt to rebrand a   salad that would have been called “oriental” in the 1980s. Meals glide on currents of fish sauce and lime juice, steered by the staff’s attention to the mechanics of   service. Serving spoons arrive before you can ask, and bowls that are wet with the anchovy broth that is poured over black cod will be cleared and replaced before you’re brought the grilled pork belly over Vietnamese vermicelli noodles, slick with a dressing that is a little more concentrated and   than usual. If there are any doubts that Cassia has a thick Gallic streak, the floating islands will dispel them. Yes, the puffs of meringue bobbing in lime crème anglaise are browned, but this is unmistakably the dessert that has disappeared into the mouths of a million French citizens. There is also a tart of dark chocolate with bananas in a pastry shell that is classically crisp. If I were to recommend one meal that captures some of the energy in the Los Angeles dining scene right now, I might come up with reasons not to mention Cassia. It is an outlier. It’s not exploring new horizons in fermentation, like Baroo. It doesn’t offer a direct connection to another country’s cuisine, like the dizzyingly good Sichuan   Chengdu Taste. It isn’t impossibly, irresistibly tiny, like Petit Trois or Le Comptoir. It doesn’t have the      bravura of Night  Market (Song). It isn’t alluringly scruffy, like Gjusta, serving bialys to Venice beach bums. It’s not making an explicit appeal to the generation that grew up thinking of Los Angeles as the easternmost city in Asia, as Roy Choi’s places do. All these other options would flash through my mind. And then I’d wonder if maybe I were overthinking the question. Because, while Cassia is not the epitome of any particular trend, most of the food coming out of its kitchen is just really delicious.