Anna Dewdney, whose “Llama Llama”   picture books amused and comforted millions of preschool children, died on Saturday at her home in Lower Bartonsville, Vt. She was 50. The cause was brain cancer, her sister the anthropologist T. M. Luhrmann said. Ms. Dewdney, whom the children’  journal The Horn Book once called a “rock star to preschoolers,” introduced her most famous character in “Llama Llama Red Pajama. ” Published in 2005, it told the rhyming story of a   llama upset when his mother delays bringing a nighttime glass of water. Mama eventually turns up and the crisis is averted. Baby llama learns that Mama will always be nearby. Parents and children loved the book. “Dewdney gives a wonderfully fresh twist to a familiar nighttime ritual,” Booklist wrote. Booksellers loved it, too. The title flew off the shelves, as did its nearly 20 successors, which sold more than 10 million copies. Netflix plans to offer an animated version of the books next year. Anna Elizabeth Luhrmann was born on Dec. 25, 1965, and grew up in Englewood, N. J. Her father, George, was a psychiatrist her mother, the former Winifred Bruce, wrote books for young readers. Anna attended Phillips Academy in Andover, Mass. and the Putney School in Vermont before earning a bachelor’s degree in art from Wesleyan University in 1987. She was a mail carrier, a waitress and a boarding school teacher before landing the assignment to illustrate “The Peppermint Race,” by Dian Curtis Regan. Ms. Dewdney illustrated several more books before discovering her llama. She told The   of Newark in 2013 that the idea had come from car trips with her two daughters in the back seat she made animal sounds to them as they passed farms. “I would say, ‘Look, there are cows,’” she said. “And I would moo and make sheep noises and chicken noises. Our vet had a field with donkeys, and then she got a llama. And I would go ‘  . ’” Written in rhymes, each book starts with a simple life problem and proceeds to solve it, with lessons learned along the way. After writing and illustrating “Grumpy Gloria,” about a bulldog jealous of a doll, Ms. Dewdney reeled off a string of   “Llama Llama” books, including “Llama Llama and the Bully Goat. Her most recent one, published last year, is “Llama Llama Gram and Grandpa,” in which Llama forgets his toys on an overnight trip. “I think children are far more like animals than they are like adults,” Ms. Dewdney told The Horn Book in 2013. She added: “Small children are ‘unadulterated’ beings. They experience and recognize feelings in themselves and others much like animals do, without all that other stuff on top. ” Ms. Dewdney also wrote the   books “Roly Poly Pangolin,” “Nobunny’s Perfect” and “Nelly Gnu and Daddy Too. ” Ms. Dewdney’s marriage, to John Ronald Dewdney, ended in divorce. In addition to her sister Tanya Marie, she is survived by her parents another sister, Alice Laughlin her companion, Reed Duncan and two daughters, Berol and Cordelia Dewdney. She recently completed “Little Excavator,” to be published in June by Viking Children’s Books. “A good children’s book can be read by an adult to a child, and experienced genuinely by both,” Ms. Dewdney told The  . “A good children’s book is like a performance. I don’t feel my world really exists until an adult has read it to a child. ”