 (CNN) Since NBC revived the live musical, the irony has been that lesser shows sometimes meet the demands of leaping to this considerably different medium more successfully. And that was true with ”Hairspray Live! ,” a frothy adaptation of the    presentation that frequently burst with infectious energy. NBC clearly took the lessons of Fox’s rightfully   production of ”Grease” to heart. Indeed, if imitation is the sincerest form of television, ”Hairspray” was inordinately sincere toward that other    musical    opening up the    numbers to the streets, providing   looks behind the scenes and incorporating a live audience component that ”The Sound of Music” and ”Peter Pan” sorely lacked. The main drawback, frankly, was that the network and producers went a bit overboard with the ”live” aspect, featuring     from affiliate viewing parties around the U. S. including (where else?) Baltimore, where the story takes place. Having ”Glee” alum Darren Criss essentially serve as the evening’s   emcee also felt like overt pandering to social media while squandering his considerable talents. Still, that’s largely quibbling about a presentation that came about as close as TV can to conveying the allure of a live theatrical experience. Nor did the casting hurt, with   performances by the likes of Jennifer Hudson and Kristin Chenoweth, as well as a host of young performers    foremost among them newcomer Maddie Baillio in the pivotal role of Tracy Turnblad. It’s Tracy, of course, who, in 1962, dreams of stardom on an afternoon dance show, despite a   frame that hardly mirrors the physiques of its snotty standouts. Once in the fold, she labors to integrate the program    which relegates   to ”Negro Day”    a reminder of a segregated past that’s largely resolved here by the shared love of music and dance. The uplifting nature of ”Hairspray’s” message    embodied in musical form by songs like ”Welcome to the ’60s” and ”You Can’t Stop the Beat”    might have originated in a 1988 John Waters film, but that sense of optimism and harmony felt particularly timely. On a crass commercial level, NBC was also enterprising in incorporating sponsors for the TV     to essentially create live commercials    a gimmick that proved less irritating than one might expect. That said, following Oreo’s product placement with an ad for the cookies was a bit too on the nose. The elaborate production did contain a few modest glitches, among them an unseen voice that said ”30 seconds”    apparently warning of an upcoming ad break    during one of the numbers and cutting away from Chenoweth rather awkwardly and rudely during the curtain calls. Then again, the whole point of ”live” is the aura of unpredictability that it brings, so even a minor   merely adds to the fun. And by the time the credits rolled, ”Hairspray Live!” had delivered more than enough in that department to hold up quite well.