On Tuesday, when the Census Bureau released one of the country’s most important reports on income and poverty, dozens of facts were revealed. We found out that real   incomes in America grew a phenomenal 5. 2 percent, and that the poverty rate fell by the largest percentage in nearly 50 years. That got the headlines. But after the initial buzz, a few reporters across the country, me included, were intrigued by two lines in the first table: While incomes in metropolitan areas grew 6 percent, those in nonmetro areas fell 2 percent. That detail prompted articles on how the recovery was unevenly shared. One problem, though: The number is wrong. Median household incomes in rural America actually grew 3. 4 percent in 2015, according to policy experts who study the census numbers closely. “Rural” has a very narrow meaning to the Census Bureau. Here, we’re using the word for what the bureau would term “nonmetropolitan. ” The correct median income number is derived from another survey, called the American Community Survey, also compiled by the Census Bureau. It released these numbers on poverty and income in a much smaller report two days later. The crucial figure on median household incomes in rural America isn’t even found on its official report. Instead, it’s buried in American Factfinder, a searchable database of thousands of statistical tables that the census produces (and involves an   process to find). Why did this happen? The short answer is this: a     definitional change. The wrong rural income number came from the bureau’s Current Population Survey’s Annual Social and Economic Supplement, a reliable source of detailed information on income and poverty that economists and policy makers have relied on for decades. But that report wasn’t devised to provide solid estimates in   geographic detail. One reason is that the Current Population Survey’s sample is too small for precise geographic estimates. Its sample is 100, 000 addresses the American Community Survey’s sample is 3. 5 million. So on balance, the American Community Survey estimates will generally be better for smaller geographic areas than the Current Population Survey. The   is that the C. P. S. asks more   questions regarding income and poverty. Broadly speaking, on a national level, the two surveys should produce very similar national estimates, which they do. Only when you drill down do the differences become apparent. A new report by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a policy research group, spotted the issue: In 2015, the Census Bureau changed what it defines as metro areas in the C. P. S. That changed the number of people who were considered to be living in rural areas. In 2014, the C. P. S. ’s estimate of rural America was 50 million. After the boundary change in 2015, that number fell to 44 million. “If rural America were a state, it would be a big state it is one where exactly where you draw the line matters,” said Arloc Sherman, a   of the report. “And they really changed the line a lot. ” This problem is built into the C. P. S. because it changes its boundaries once every 10 years, while the A. C. S. makes its changes incrementally. These differences were so large that the Census Bureau actually warned against comparing the C. P. S. estimates of geographic mobility between 2014 and 2015 because they “do not accurately reflect the actual respective populations. ” The census did post a “User Note” on Friday, after the center’s report was released, directing people to use the A. C. S. for comparisons between metro and nonmetro areas. It’s not clear why the census even included those numbers in the initial big income report in the first place. To be fair to the census researchers, this number was not labeled statistically significant in the report  —   meaning that the researchers couldn’t be sure if they were actually detecting a real change in income for rural households in 2015. But this lack of significance turned out to be a detail that few reporters noticed. Perhaps part of the reason the news media didn’t see the problems in the C. P. S. ’s number was that the narrative of a divergence between rural and urban America seemed too irresistible. It confirmed suspicions about a link between people’s economic anxieties in rural America and the rise of Donald J. Trump. In many cases, data further complicates our view of the world, making things murkier instead of clearer. By contrast, the sharp differences in rural and urban income growth suggested by the C. P. S. felt like a gift from the statistics gods. But our loss is clearly the American people’s gain, because it shows that the recovery is even more broadly shared than we thought.