More than 50 former government officials and national security and military figures have signed an open letter to Donald J. Trump, urging him to disclose details of his overseas business investments before Election Day. The letter  —   signed by dozens of supporters of the Democratic presidential nominee, Hillary Clinton  —   was drafted as Mr. Trump, the Republican pick who is reported to have extensive overseas entanglements, has refused to release his tax returns. Michael J. Morell, a former acting director of the C. I. A. and Michael G. Vickers, a former under secretary of defense for intelligence, put together the letter with input from Samantha Vinograd, a former senior adviser to Thomas E. Donilon, a former national security adviser. “Donald Trump still has not revealed to the American public his international business relationships, even as it becomes increasingly clear that his overseas ties could well constitute significant conflicts of interest when it comes to charting U. S. foreign policy,” the letter reads. “This is unprecedented for a candidate for the nation’s highest office. As such, we are calling on Mr. Trump to disclose, in full, the nature of his business relationships overseas  —   to include specifically who his business partners are and what and where are his foreign investments. ” The signers  —   who also include prominent Republicans such as Michael Chertoff, who led the Department of Homeland Security under President George W. Bush, and Paul D. Wolfowitz, Mr. Bush’s deputy secretary of defense  —   add that Mr. Trump should “pledge that he will divest himself of his overseas business interests should he win the presidency. ” In a comment after this article was published, Jason Miller, a spokesman for Mr. Trump, singled out one of the letter’s relatively   signers for criticism, without directly addressing the substance of the letter. “If Wendy Sherman is the definition of who is considered a reliable government official, this letter and its signatories lose all credibility,” Mr. Miller said. “Sherman was appointed to the State Department by Hillary Clinton during her disastrous tenure and was the lead negotiator in opening up Iran —  the world’s leading state sponsor of terrorism —  for business, ultimately funding terrorist activities and exporting violence around the world. ” He added, “Based on her complete failure in representing American foreign policy and deep ties to Secretary Clinton, this letter epitomizes the rigged system in Washington that has continued to fail Americans over and over again. ” Mrs. Clinton’s husband, former President Bill Clinton, recently announced changes that would take place at the Clinton Foundation, which relies heavily on foreign donations, in an effort to eliminate the potential for the appearance of conflicts of interest if she becomes president. Those changes were announced after Mrs. Clinton faced intense scrutiny, including from Mr. Trump, over the foundation’s foreign donations. Mr. Morell, a supporter of Mrs. Clinton who worked with her while she was secretary of state, said he and Mr. Vickers sought the letter after Newsweek reported that Mr. Trump has had business dealings with questionable figures in China, India and Russia, and claimed to have had negotiations with Col. Muammar   before he was toppled as the dictator of Libya. “On the campaign trail, Mr. Trump has repeatedly praised Vladimir Putin’s authoritarian leadership, while outlining policies that read like a Kremlin wish list,” the letter reads, referring to the president of Russia. “He has claimed that Putin would never invade Ukraine, suggested permanently ceding Crimea to Russia and placed conditions on upholding our obligation to protect our NATO allies,” according to the letter. “He has floated lifting sanctions against Russia, which would benefit both Putin and the Trump Organization. ” The signers wrote that the next president would take office at a complicated moment globally, adding: “Our policies must be motivated exclusively by what is in America’s best interest, not by the financial interests of our president. The onus is on Donald Trump to assure voters that this will be the case by disclosing the nature of his overseas relationships and committing to divest such assets. ”