PITTSBURGH  —   Donald J. Trump said Thursday that drugs were to blame for the violence roiling cities across the nation. Mr. Trump used the first roughly 10 minutes of his remarks to energy executives at a shale industry conference here to address the current unrest  —   including in Charlotte, N. C. after an   man was fatally shot by the police  —   before turning more broadly to the plight of the nation’s largely black urban areas. “And if you’re not aware, drugs are a very, very big factor in what you’re watching on television at night,” Mr. Trump said. Some interpreted the Republican nominee’s remarks as specifically addressing the violent demonstrations in Charlotte, or at least the protests that have sprung up around the country this year in response to police shootings. But Kellyanne Conway, Mr. Trump’s campaign manager, said he was not referring to Charlotte or the broader protest movement, which is often led by  . “He wasn’t talking about Charlotte specifically,” Ms. Conway said. “As he has done in many different venues on many different occasions, he is addressing a major concern that authorities and moms all across the country are raising with him, which is indiscriminate drug use and opiate addiction. ” Before turning to the topic at hand  —   energy  —   Mr. Trump said he first wanted to address “the turmoil unfolding right now in our country. ” “We have some real problems, and we do have a wounded country,” he said. “Many Americans are watching the unrest in Charlotte unfolding right before their eyes on the TV screens. Others are witnessing the chaos and the violence firsthand. ” He also worried aloud whether the protests and unrest had diminished the nation’s international standing. “Our country looks bad to the world, especially when we are supposed to be the world’s leader  —   how can we lead when we can’t even control our own cities?” Mr. Trump said. “We honor and recognize the right for all Americans to peacefully assemble and protest and demonstrate. But there is no right to engage in violent disruption or to threaten the public safety and peace of others. ” Earlier, in an interview on “Fox  Friends,” Mr. Trump addressed his call on Wednesday to broaden the use of    policing to other cities across the nation. Asked about the policy, which is loathed by many   and whose legality has been questioned, Mr. Trump said he was specifically referring to the use of increased    in Chicago  —   a city that has been besieged by crime and gun violence. But he also asserted his general support for the policy  —   ”They’ll stop, they’ll frisk, and they’ll take the gun away, and they won’t have anything to shoot with,” Mr. Trump said on Fox  —   and he reiterated that support during his speech here on Thursday. “Look at the example we had in New York of Mayor Rudy Giuliani,” Mr. Trump said, saying that the    policies, which were instituted during Mr. Giuliani’s tenure as mayor, had helped curb murder and other crimes in the city. “Think of how many families these policies saved from the worst heartache imaginable. ” But Mr. Trump, whose support among   voters is still in the single digits in most polls, also tried to strike a more inclusive, conciliatory note, speaking of the “    residents who live in these communities” and “suffer the most as a result of these riots. ” He called for more law enforcement, more community engagement and “more effective policing. ” “Our job is not to make life more comfortable for the violent disrupter, but to make life more comfortable for the   parent trying to raise their kids in peace, to walk their children to school and to get their children great educations,” he said. “For every one violent protester, there are thousands of moms and dads and kids in that same community who just want to be able to sleep  —   really to sleep safely at night. To be able to walk on the streets. To be able to go to the grocery store. ” Later, Mr. Trump stopped by Geno’s, the famous Philadelphia cheesesteak place, to sample the city’s signature sandwich. Turning to the assembled cameras and reporters, Mr. Trump repeatedly pressed, “Who wants one?” “I think I’m going to get one for Hillary,” he joked. A man in the crowd shouted back: “Then she’ll choke on it!”