The winner of the feature race on Monday at Aqueduct, it was noted, ran    starting in front and ending that way as the race’s second wagering choice. And yet, despite the bettors’ confidence, the outcome was extraordinarily unusual, and all but unnoticed. The winning owners are brothers who were born in Jamaica: Gaston and Anthony Grant. Gaston Grant served as the horse’s trainer  —   a labor of love that he juggles with his   job as a driver for UPS. The rider, Kendrick Carmouche, was a jockey from Louisiana. All are black. On a rare Monday of live horse racing at Aqueduct, in South Ozone Park, Queens, the sight in the winner’s circle was rarer still, in a sport with few black participants and on a holiday card that coincided with Martin Luther King’s Birthday. The winner’s trophy for the race, the Toboggan Stakes, was even presented by Sentell Taylor Jr. a placing judge who has worked at New York tracks for more than 50 years Mr. Taylor is also black. “After the race, I said, ‘Would you look at this?’ ” Mr. Taylor remarked. “It all fell into place. I was surprised. ” Still, the significance and rarity of the moment seemed lost. It went unmentioned in various accounts of the race the New York Racing Association, which runs Aqueduct, did not note it on its social media accounts or in its news release. It even mostly escaped Gaston Grant, the owner and trainer of the winner, Green Gratto, a    thoroughbred. For Mr. Grant, who currently trains six horses, the import of the day was more in the victory than the holiday. “I didn’t even really think about it until just now,” Mr. Grant said. Mr. Grant keeps his horses on the backstretch at Aqueduct, tending to them in the morning before heading off to his other day job delivering packages. He was introduced to the track by his father, but his involvement in the sport was confined to gambling until about 20 years ago, when he picked up work as a groom and a   a person who cools down a horse after a race. He finally obtained his trainer’s license two years ago. From 2005 to 2014, the feature race on this January holiday was the Jimmy Winkfield Stakes, named for the black jockey who won the Kentucky Derby in 1901 and 1902. Winkfield would go on to be an international star after racism in his native country forced him to pursue his career overseas. More than a century later, there are still few black jockeys at most American racetracks, and the Winkfield Stakes, which will take place next month, was never won by a black rider when it was held on the day honoring the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. “Anytime something like this happens, and I’m involved, and my people are involved, it’s significant and I’m happy,” Mr. Taylor said of the victory for Green Gratto’s connections. Indeed, the outcome of the Toboggan Stakes  —   first run in New York in 1893, and the replacement for the Winkfield Stakes  —   created an unexpected commemoration of the holiday. “It seems like it was bound for us to win that race,” Mr. Carmouche said. “My birthday is Wednesday and it always falls near Martin Luther King Day, and it seems like everything I do this week is for him. ” The son and grandson of jockeys, Mr. Carmouche remembers being placed onto a horse for the first time when he was 7 or 8 years old. By the time he was 16, he had gotten his jockey’s license. His first win came in 2000 for Shelton Zenon, a black trainer, on a horse called Earl N Erin at Evangeline Downs in Louisiana. But since he left that state, where black jockeys and trainers are more common than they are at Northern tracks, his mounts for black trainers have been less frequent. “There are very few,” Mr. Carmouche said. “To be honest, I think that black families don’t bring their kids around the racetrack as much. You have to really love horses and to be around them for a long time, to not feel afraid of them to ride them. ” After leaving Louisiana, Mr. Carmouche rode at tracks in Texas and the   before making the move to New York to try to make an impact in one of the toughest jockey colonies in the country. He will be 33 on Wednesday, and is in second place in the jockey standings for the current Aqueduct meeting. “I have a dream, to become a top rider,” he said, deliberately invoking Dr. King. “From the day I was born until now, and I’m living my dream. ”