If there was one child Mohammad Rahami had to worry about bringing shame upon the family, it was Ahmad. In the fifth grade, his teacher complained to Mr. Rahami that Ahmad acted like a king in class. In junior high, he broke a friend’s nose. Even worse was high school  —   after Mr. Rahami arranged for Ahmad to marry a good Afghan girl from Kabul, Ahmad dated a Dominican girl, getting her pregnant in his senior year. The shame. They had   so many of them. In the beginning, because Ahmad was just becoming too American for his conservative Afghan parents, who had moved to New Jersey after Mr. Rahami fought in Afghanistan against the Soviets as part of the mujahedeen in the 1980s. And then, in the last few years, they fell out over much darker fears. Ahmad spent hours watching videos on the internet espousing violent jihad, embracing some of the most prominent purveyors of that message: Bin Laden, Awlaki, Adnani, the men who in that world needed no first names. Mr. Rahami said he asked Ahmad to stop. “This is wrong,” Mr. Rahami recalled telling his son, one of eight children. “You don’t know if they are real Muslims. You shouldn’t watch them. You have nothing to do with them. ” But nothing stopped Ahmad Khan Rahami, 28, who now stands accused of bombings in New York and New Jersey and a string of other attempts: not Mr. Rahami’s entreaties to his   son that such a fascination with jihadi videos was “a disease,” and not the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s    investigation into Ahmad in 2014. In many ways, Ahmad’s story is similar to those of the perpetrators of other recent terrorist attacks in the United States and Europe: a disaffected   immigrant, straddling two worlds and unable to fit into either a young man who had not yet found a meaningful path in life, easily recruited into a cause that promised divine rewards. It is particularly similar to the life of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, the popular, outgoing high school student sentenced to death a few years after graduation for his role in the 2013 bombing of the Boston Marathon. But Ahmad’s story has nuances, showing how difficult it was for him to make it in America while trying to break out of his conservative family, something, for a while, he seemed to want desperately. His earliest rebellion was not against the West. It was against his father, a conservative, proud man who tried to run his family like he would have back home. And then, later, Ahmad gave up that fight for another, seemingly seeking out jihad on his own and spurning the country that had welcomed his family as refugees. In his recent planning, Ahmad appeared to be isolated and occasionally conflicted. There was no brother to lead him, as in the case of Mr. Tsarnaev. No terrorist cell appeared to be actively helping him. No wife bent on jihad as well, as with the couple in the December shootings in San Bernardino, Calif. No group rushed to claim him or his attacks. Not Al Qaeda and not the Islamic State, despite Ahmad’s praise of figures from both groups in the notebook found on him. That notebook also showed his fear: that he would be caught before he completed his mission, the authorities said. So what turned Ahmad, the class clown, the man who once wanted to be a police officer or a translator for the United States military, into the man now accused of orchestrating the most serious terrorist strike in New York City since the Sept. 11 attacks? Much remains unanswered, but one thing is certain from interviews with his father and friends: He found jihad on the internet, at a time when there was nothing particularly bad in his life, but nothing particularly good. His life was standing in place. Even as his brothers moved on, graduated from college, drove for Uber, Ahmad was stuck. He tried jobs and failed, and ultimately fell back on the one thing he knew, and wanted to get away from: his family’s   business. Years of small indignities piled up, the minor court cases, like the one with the neighbor who allegedly conned him in a   bank swindle that involved transferring someone else’s money to him and paying her back. He asked her in a text message, “Yo this is solely your money tho rite. ” (It was not.) There were two main phases of Ahmad’s life  —   before he started watching the videos in 2013 and after, as he grew ever more radical. As a teenager, Ahmad embraced America. To his friends, he was not Ahmad  —   he was Mad or Ack. He wore baggy jeans, Air Jordans and hoodies, sent slangy text messages proclaiming “na meen,” instead of “know what I mean. ” He was a cutup, a clown. He had girlfriends. He wrote love poems in a spiral notebook. Back then, Mr. Rahami’s desire to send Ahmad to Afghanistan as a way to bring him into a right way of thinking and curb his excesses was seen as a threat, as a punishment, not as a gateway to an extremist cause. But then came the last trip. In April 2013, Ahmad left for a nearly yearlong stay in Pakistan. While there, he took trips to Turkey and Afghanistan, according to immigration and law enforcement officials in Pakistan and the United States. A relative in Quetta, Pakistan, where Ahmad was staying, began to fret about what was becoming of him, his father said. Ahmad had fallen under the sway of a radical cleric in Quetta, a man called Mullah Qudri, according to a close relative in Afghanistan, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to avoid upsetting family members. Ahmad came home, angry and violent. A few months later, he stabbed his mother, a brother and a sister. His father was so worried that he talked to the F. B. I. But then, with that investigation closed, Mr. Rahami tried to reconcile with his son. This is a tightknit Afghan family, after all  —   a father will forgive many things in a son. By this year, Ahmad seemed to be doing better. He agreed to take over his father’s   restaurant. He even moved into a room in the family apartment upstairs. And then, over the summer, he put a lock on the door. The story of the Rahami family is a typical one for the Afghan diaspora, tracing the fallout from the wars in Afghanistan. Mohammad Rahami, a Pashtun from Kandahar, joined the fight against the Soviet occupation in Afghanistan shortly after the Soviets invaded in 1979, when he was only 16. In the war, backed by the United States, he fought both with    or the Islamic Party, comprised mainly of ethnic Pashtuns, and with a faction of the    or Islamic Society, led by Burhanuddin Rabbani, who would become Afghanistan’s president during the civil war in the 1990s. Mr. Rahami would later show a prized photograph to a neighbor who served in the Marines in Afghanistan: of himself as a young man, a traditional brown pakol perched on his head, with three or four other men, all brandishing   rifles. In 1984, Mr. Rahami moved his home base over the Pakistan border into Quetta, a city teeming with refugees, one that would later become a stronghold for militants. He settled with his wife, Najiba, and other family members. The Rahamis started a family, first a daughter, Aziza, then a son, Mohammad Khan. Ahmad was born in 1988. Najiba was pregnant in 1989, with another son, Qasim, when Mr. Rahami left Pakistan for New Jersey to claim refugee status, about the time that the Soviets fled Afghanistan. He was all of 26 years old, and his war, his own jihad, was already behind him. Najiba and their four children followed in 1995. Four more children would come later. They endured the travails of so many immigrants with little education: hard work, a confusing legal system, limited opportunity and a sea of slights for things that would make no sense back home. Mr. Rahami moved his family from one home to the next one on the New Jersey ladder, from the sprawling Ivy Hill apartment complex in Newark to the Galloping Hill Estates subdivision in Union to the Blueberry Village apartments in Edison, names that all evoked possibility and peace. But all the while, problems piled up: the small lawsuits, his children’s   with the police, and Ahmad, always Ahmad. Mr. Rahami made his way in America like many Afghans at the time in the New York area: in fried chicken, just like the Afghans who started Kennedy Fried Chicken, the shop that has spawned hundreds of   restaurants since the first one opened in the 1970s. When Afghans first arrived, they would work for another   Afghan, and then they would join together with other Afghan workers to start their own chicken restaurants, to be their own bosses, with aspirational names like Royal Fried Chicken, formerly known as Hollywood Fried Chicken. “In the community, it’s a good way to get started,” said Mohammed   who incorporated businesses in New Jersey, including one of Mr. Rahami’s first ones in Newark. So in the 1990s, Mr. Rahami helped run Tasty Pizza  Fried Chicken. In 2002, he would open his flagship, which was really just a hole in the wall, named for the country that embraced him as a refugee: First American Fried Chicken. Within two years, he had joined a Kennedy Fried Chicken franchise in Asbury Park. Other relatives opened chicken shops. His sons would work in all of them, long hours into the night. The family lived for nine years in Ivy Hill, a magnet for   immigrants. Ahmad was known to neighbors as the kid who tagged along with his big brother. Mohammad, older by about two years, was tall and skinny. Ahmad was short and plump, his weight something that would continue to bother him. When they saw their elders, they would both say “salaam,” a respectful greeting. When they saw their friends, it was, “Hey, what’s up guys?” They played basketball and went to the park. With their parents, they spoke Pashto, a neighbor recalled. The apartment complex allowed its Muslim residents to create a mosque in the basement. They put carpets down and installed   and called it the Ivy Hills Masjid. The Rahami children wore jeans and   most of the time but traditional clothes on Fridays, for the most important Islamic prayer of the week. “You line them up, it was like the von Trapp family, times two,” said Ken Creegan, a regular at the chicken restaurant who became friendly with the family. Ahmad was interested in politics in his teens, said a close friend who has known him for about 15 years and who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he did not want to get swept up in the investigation. He railed against Pakistan and its main intelligence agency, the   Intelligence directorate, better known as the ISI, which he blamed, like many Afghans, for messing up his ancestral land. “As a teenager, he was angry at Pakistan, saying ISI created the Taliban  —   he was angry about it,” the friend said. Little nuisances always seemed to snowball for the Rahamis. Some of the issues should have been simple enough to fix, like the $242 gas bill from Tasty Pizza  Fried Chicken in July 1998. The elder Mr. Rahami did not pay it. He let it haunt him for six years, until the gas company finally sued him. Then there was the matter of being sued by a man who claimed he broke a tooth on a hamburger at Kennedy Fried Chicken. That was a minor irritant, really, but it came just days after Aziza, his eldest daughter, a high school junior, was arrested on suspicion of taking about $565 worth of jewelry and perfume from a Filene’s store. Not only that, a brief about it ran in a newspaper, although the outcome of the case is unclear. The year 2004 was not a great one for the family: Despite all his business endeavors, Mr. Rahami said he earned only $10, 000, a court filing showed. Just try raising eight children on that. Mr. Rahami filed for bankruptcy in October 2005, a decision that for a prideful Pashtun man had to have been tough to make. He owed almost $46, 000, for things like a Macy’s card and a doctor in Union, N. J. and a 1999 Chevrolet Suburban. He claimed to earn only $1, 447. 33 a month from his chicken restaurant, somehow feeding his family on $200 of that. He had just $100 in the bank. Ahmad was also becoming a source of anxiety. The teenager had enjoyed his popularity with a certain group of girls, a male friend said, and the attention “sometimes puffed up his head. ” His father fretted that he was absorbing too many of the negative aspects of American culture. So off Ahmad went to relatives in Quetta in the beginning of what should have been his junior year, his first trip out of America in five years. He stayed until January 2006, and then returned to Edison High School in Elizabeth. Imani Podhradsky sat next to him in Algebra 2, but said Ahmad spent more time socializing than solving math problems. Maria Mena, whose family was from the Dominican Republic, became Ahmad’s sweetheart. A photograph shows the couple in a swimming pool, with another couple and three friends, a diverse group, Maria smiling broadly and hugging Ahmad from behind. Mr. Rahami was furious at the relationship. The family had arranged for Ahmad to marry a woman in Afghanistan. He told his son that he could not have a girlfriend while he was engaged to someone else. No surprise, but Ahmad did what he wanted. By senior year, Maria was pregnant. The teenagers were excited, holding hands in the hallways, grinning and touching each other. In a prom picture, Maria is pregnant, wearing a shy smile and a white dress. Ahmad seems happy, too, wearing a shiny pink vest and a matching tie over a white shirt. His father had had enough. One day, Ahmad came to school upset, Ms. Podhradsky said. His parents were forcing him to move back to Afghanistan after graduation. In early July 2007, just after Ahmad graduated, he was put on a plane  —   to Pakistan, it turned out  —   leaving behind his girlfriend, who would give birth to their daughter without him. When Ahmad came home the next March, he tried to put his life back together. He moved in with Maria’s family that year. He worked a job at Kmart, which paid him $485. 69 a week, court records show. The life that he was building was small, but he was doing it on his own, and that was something. He tried to be a good father. In July 2008, when he was 20, he spent $10. 68 for a modest purchase at a toy store. At the time, his bank balance was only $406. 41. The Rahami family also continued to rack up legal problems. For years, it seemed as if the family’s main encounters with the outside community were negative ones, in the courtroom, involving lawsuits over small, unpaid bills. Qasim was arrested as a juvenile. At one point, even the mother, Najiba, was arrested, charged with abusing the couple’s    and sent to parenting classes. Around this time, the City of Elizabeth started coming after First American, which had become a   spot for local teenagers to hang out at night. They staged rap battles in the back. The dispute became heated, with the city slapping tickets on the restaurant for staying open past 10 p. m. and the Rahamis arguing that such tickets should never have been issued. After what seemed like countless confrontations, Mohammad Khan, the eldest brother, and another sibling, Qasim, tried to record a police visit in June 2009. They complained of selective enforcement. There was a confrontation, and the two were jailed. Qasim was released Mohammad Khan eventually pleaded guilty to a minor charge. The Rahamis then filed a federal civil rights suit, claiming in part that they were being targeted because of their faith. That lawsuit fizzled out. Ahmad is strangely absent from those court documents. But at some point, he came back to the family, strapped with an incomprehensible $996 a month in child support, now estranged from Maria. He tried to find his footing. He enrolled in September 2010 in a   program at Middlesex County College, but he would give it up in two years. About the same time, he told his close friend who had known him for 15 years that he went to Washington to try to get a job as a translator in Afghanistan with the United States military. But he knew only Pashto, one of the two main languages in the country. “They rejected him and told him to learn Dari,” the friend recalled. Nothing was working out. He started working nights, from 6 p. m. until 3 a. m. manning the register at Royal Fried Chicken in Elizabeth. On one of the nights he had visitation rights to his daughter, he brought her to work, said Amarjit Singh, a   and high school friend. He held her, refusing to let her go. His life kept going in fits and starts. Ahmad finally married his fiancée on a   trip to Pakistan in 2011. But the next year, he was fighting with his   in court. He was slapped with a restraining order  —   it was not clear by whom  —   and jailed for violating it eight days later. By 2013, he was becoming someone else. A friend from high school, who had once watched the movie “Hellboy” with Ahmad, found out that his friend’s tastes in videos had changed. Ahmad had started watching YouTube videos of extremists, said the friend, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was afraid of repercussions. At one point, the friend said, Ahmad showed him a lecture by the leading   Qaeda propagandist Anwar   killed in a C. I. A. drone strike in September 2011. “He put his hands in this,” is the expression Mr. Rahami used to describe his son’s growing extremism, which he first saw in 2013. So when Ahmad went to Pakistan the last time, in April 2013, he was already dabbling in extremism. Quetta, the capital of Baluchistan Province and a haven for Taliban leaders and other extremists, would have made it easy for him to be drawn in deeper. The irony was clear: As a young teenager, he had hated the Taliban and Pakistan. And now he embraced them, even though a relative had been killed by the Taliban in Afghanistan around this time, the friend of 15 years said. His close relative in Afghanistan said Ahmad fell under the spell of a man named Mullah Qudri, whom he met through friends in California. “This Mullah Qudri has brainwashed Ahmad,” the relative said, adding that Mullah Qudri was even spending nights with Ahmad at the house where he was staying in Quetta. Ahmad traveled to Afghanistan for several weeks early on in his trip, according to Pakistani immigration authorities. He also made a short detour in early 2014 to Turkey  —   the gateway to Syria and the Islamic State  —   although it is not clear what he did there, law enforcement officials said. When Ahmad came home in March 2014, he was flagged by customs officials, who pulled him aside for a second screening and alerted a federal agency that assesses potential threats, two law enforcement officials said. It was the first time he came to the attention of federal authorities. But nothing happened. And there Ahmad was again, living now with his brothers in an apartment in Perth Amboy, N. J. working in the chicken business, even as his brothers were moving on to other things. Only now, he favored wearing more traditional clothes. Only now, he was angry and erratic. His wife, Asia Bibi Rahami, had just given birth to their son but was having trouble getting a visa to come to the United States. When Ahmad showed up at the local congressman’s office to ask for help, he was gruff and abrupt, asking the office to mail a letter to Islamabad demanding to know why it was taking so long. One day in August, he stabbed his brother, his sister and his mother none of the injuries were grievous, but still. Mr. Rahami, who had seen his son watching these horrible videos, who feared what he was becoming, called the police, a difficult decision, calling in the very people who had never done his family any favors. He described his son to them as a “terrorist. ” Ahmad was charged with stabbing his brother Nasim in the left leg. Mr. Rahami, in interviews last week, did not want to say much about the attack, so it is not clear why Ahmad was charged only with his brother’s stabbing. Ahmad spent a little more than two months in jail, and Mr. Rahami said he talked to the F. B. I. about his concerns about his son’s growing extremism. The F. B. I. which challenged Mr. Rahami’s recollection, never interviewed Ahmad. And about three weeks after the stabbing, the review was formally closed. Life went on. Ahmad’s wife eventually made it to the United States. Mr. Rahami and Ahmad were mostly estranged, although in an Afghan family, where family life is paramount, such estrangements are rarely forever. So then came this year, when the elder Mr. Rahami and his wife and their youngest children planned to move to Roanoke, Va. near relatives, where they would open up another   restaurant. Ahmad’s brothers were doing well. One was driving for Uber. Another had graduated from college. So Mr. Rahami offered his wayward son a shot: If he wanted, First American was his. The restaurant deal lasted less than six weeks. After a bitter dispute between father and son, Mohammad Rahami came back at the end of May to run the business until he could sell it. Ahmad left the restaurant and started working shifts at two other   restaurants in the area. But Ahmad stayed in his father’s apartment, keeping a lock on the door of his room, Mr. Rahami said. His son grew so suspicious of his father trying to get inside, even through the windows, that he changed the lock. In June, Ahmad started ordering supplies from eBay, the slingshot steelies, the citric acid, the circuit board, according to the federal criminal complaint against him. He planned. At some point, he allegedly scrawled his thoughts in a notebook, along with thoughts of his muses, Awlaki, Bin Laden and a founder of the Islamic State. “Inshallah the sounds of the bombs will be heard in the streets,” the journal finished. “Gun shots to your police. Death To Your OPPRESSION. ” The bombs went off last weekend, but the elder Mr. Rahami was busy in his chicken restaurant, keeping it open into the wee hours, the best time to make money, after the bars let out and people were hungry. On Monday morning, Mr. Rahami closed the business just before 3. He said his prayers, and then he went to bed. But then he heard a loud racket outside. Two   officers burst into his apartment and told him to raise his hands, he said. They handcuffed him, he said, and put him on the floor, before marching him outside his bedroom. There, he saw three of his sons  —   Mohammad Khan, Qasim, Nasim  —   also handcuffed. He looked from one to the next and he had one thought: “Where is Ahmad?”