Undeterred and infuriated by Western accusations of war crimes and barbarity in the aerial assault on Aleppo, the Syrian government and its ally Russia intensively bombed the city in northern Syria on Monday for the fourth consecutive day. Residents and rescuers there described the bombardment as among the worst yet in the   war. Both the Kremlin and the Syrian government appeared to harden their position that the United States and its partners had caused the disintegration of a fleeting   last week. The Russians went as far as suggesting that the Western portrayal of them as war criminals in the Syria conflict risked a further alienation in relations.   neighborhoods in eastern Aleppo were hit with dozens of air attacks in the predawn hours, killing and wounding many people, according to doctors, nurses and activists in the city. By some estimates the deaths totaled 100 or more for the fourth day. A number of monitor groups disseminated graphic photos and video clips portraying the medical mayhem wrought by the bombings. The Aleppo Media Center, a group of antigovernment activists and citizen journalists who have sought to document the conflict, posted  video footage of civilian victims on a dirty hospital floor getting little more than simple bandages for wounds. Stockpiles of food and supplies have dwindled to near nothing on the   side, according to a  report from Aleppo by Agence  . It also said a shortage of blood for transfusions had forced doctors at the few functioning hospitals to amputate limbs of the seriously wounded. Save the Children, the international charity, said children were “dying on the floors of hospitals” for lack of ventilators, anesthetics and antibiotics. The crisis in Aleppo has drastically worsened since Thursday, when Syrian and Russian warplanes sharply escalated the bombing of the divided city as the   negotiated by the Russians and Americans, collapsed. The volume of bombings has increased, residents and rescue workers in Aleppo have said, and incendiary weapons and   bombs that can destroy underground shelters have been used for the first time, wreaking havoc on crowded neighborhoods. One Syrian ambulance crew called Shafak said Sunday that half the dead it had collected over the weekend were children, according to Save the Children. Forty percent of the population in eastern Aleppo are children, Save the Children said, a statistic that helps to explain the high rates of young casualties. Ahmad Mustafa Makiyya, a volunteer with the ambulance team, said he had to pull his own family members from the rubble of their house, which was struck on Monday. The house was close to a gathering point for day laborers, he said, making the area especially crowded. At an emergency meeting of the United Nations Security Council on Sunday, the United States, Britain and other allies said that the Russians were abetting war crimes in Aleppo by the government of President Bashar  . “  bombs, more suited to destroying military installations, are now destroying homes, decimating bomb shelters, crippling, maiming, killing dozens, if not hundreds,” Matthew Rycroft, Britain’s ambassador to the United Nations, told the Council session. Mr. Rycroft said that “in short, it is difficult to deny that Russia” is committing war crimes. Samantha Power, his American counterpart, accused the Russians of “barbarism. ” Russia’s government, which has called the military campaign a necessary response to terrorist groups in Syria, responded harshly on Monday to the criticism. “We note the overall unacceptable tone and rhetoric of the representatives of the United Kingdom and the United States, which can damage and harm our relations,” Dimitry S. Peskov, a Kremlin spokesman, told reporters in Moscow. Mr. Peskov said moderate Syrian opposition groups backed by the United States and Western and Arab allies had not complied with the terms of the   by failing to separate themselves from the jihadist fighters of the Nusra Front, which now calls itself the Levant Conquest Front. “Terrorists continue their encroachments, they continue offensives,” he said, so that “naturally the fight against terrorists is ongoing, and must not be stopped. ” International aid groups that have long denounced the indiscriminate brutality of the Syrian war were aghast at the intensified bombings in Aleppo. The city is home to roughly two million people, including at least 250, 000 who live in the   eastern zones. The Union of Medical Care and Relief Organizations, a   group that supports hospitals in Syria, said the use of   bombs in recent days had made the crisis more desperate. “These bombs have the capacity to destroy fortified hospitals, medical points and underground shelters (where tens of thousands are taking shelter) at high risk,” the group said in a statement. The United Nations secretary general, Ban   who has repeatedly denounced what he has called the Syrian government’s culpability in most civilian casualties of the war, also expressed shock at the use of   bombs. “These bombs are not busting bunkers,” he said. “They are demolishing ordinary people looking for any last refuge of safety. International law is clear: The systematic use of indiscriminate weapons in densely populated areas is a war crime. ” The power of these bombs is far more destructive than the barrels stuffed with explosives and shrapnel that Syrian government forces have been dropping on   areas, where they kill and maim indiscriminately. An ordinary building hit by the   barrel bombs will crumble, but the bunker busters obliterate buildings and also leave deep and wide craters, said James Le Mesurier, director of the Stichting Mayday Rescue Foundation, a group that supports the civil defense search and rescue crews known as the White Helmets. While underground bunkers in eastern Aleppo have afforded civilians some measure of protection from barrel bombs, Mr. Le Mesurier said, the bunker busters leave no place to hide. Caroline Anning, a spokeswoman for Save the Children in southern Turkey, said Syrian relief workers she had spoken to in recent days told her they no longer felt safe in underground bunkers. Schools  —   such as they are, operating in basements  —   have been shut since early July in   eastern Aleppo. They were scheduled to resume on Saturday, though that now seems unlikely, Ms. Anning said. There was little indication Monday that diplomacy could be revived to stop the Aleppo assault, with each side blaming the other. Mr. Assad and his subordinates, emboldened by Russia’s assistance, have said over the past week that they intend to retake the entire city by force if necessary. Syria’s foreign minister, Walid   said in a television interview that he considered the United States responsible for the collapse of the   and that Mr. Ban’s comments on the Aleppo bombings were “shameful. ” Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, told reporters in Washington that diplomacy remained for now the only viable option for reducing the fighting in Syria and ending the war. However, Mr. Earnest said, “it is hard to imagine the United States reaching any other negotiated agreement with the Russians until they have lived up to the commitments they have already made. ”