Good morning. I’ll be spending a lot of today with Kim Severson, our national food correspondent, up from Atlanta to help us welcome guests to our Food for Tomorrow conference, which starts tomorrow in Pocantico Hills, N. Y. at the Stone Barns Center for Food  Agriculture. It would be great if we were cooking, but we’ll be in a car, talk, talk, talking, and when we need gas, we’ll stop, and Kim will scout for pork rinds, because you never know: There may be a better kind than Golden Flake. I hope you’ll be cooking. (Not in the mood? Head on over to Facebook and watch our cool little video about making a ricotta tart. See if you don’t want to make that baby tonight or later this week.) If I were cooking, I’d be pleased this evening to serve Pierre Franey’s great old recipe for chicken breasts with lemon alongside some plain rice and a platter of green beans with shallots. It makes for a relatively fast meal, and it should leave you time to clean up ahead of the first   debate of this election season. (Alternatively, you can roast up some loaded nachos and eat them while watching, drinking beer and taking a shot of whiskey every time Mrs. Clinton says “breaking down barriers” and each time Mr. Trump mentions “the wall. ”) I’d be making plans for the rest of the week, too. I’m excited to try my hand at David Tanis’s recipe for lamb steaks with Lebanese spices. I’d like to serve Florence Fabricant’s recipe for broccoli rabe made  . I want to make Nigella Lawson’s recipe for salmon in a ginger and lemongrass broth. It’s getting to the time of year when I want to eat David’s recipe for pork chops with apples and cider. And who doesn’t want, as fall begins to cool off our evenings a little, to settle into a dinner of Jamie Oliver’s recipe for eggplant Parmesan? The Food for Tomorrow conference runs through Wednesday, so perhaps I’ll get to one of those toward the end of the week. If you beat me to the punch, take a photograph of what you cook and post it to social media, where we monitor the hashtag #NYTCooking on Twitter, Instagram, Facebook and Pinterest. We’ve got a growing community of home cooks going. Let’s share our work! You can find many more recipes on Cooking. Search through our collections and see if you can’t find something delicious to cook. Then cook it! You can rate your results on a scale of one to five stars, and, if you have a good substitution or hack to suggest, you can post a note on the recipe. And, as always, I’ll ask you to reach out to us for help if you need it. There are kind and careful people standing by at cookingcare@nytimes. com. Now, have you read this piece in our Sunday Review arguing that industrial farms are good for the environment? Discuss.