 (CNN) Bobbi Kristina Brown, the daughter of Bobby Brown and Whitney Houston, has ”global and irreversible brain damage,” according to her grandmother. Though the    is no longer in a medically induced coma, she remains unresponsive, Cissy Houston said in a statement Monday after visiting her granddaughter. ”Meeting with the doctors and understanding that she can live in this condition for a lifetime truly saddens me,” Houston said. ”We can only trust in God for a miracle at this time.” Houston’s statement matched that from a source with knowledge of Brown’s condition, who told CNN on Monday that she remained in the same neurological state she has been in for nearly three months. She does not respond to visitors or familiar voices, and her eyes do not follow a person around the room, the source told CNN. She also has a tracheostomy in her throat, the source said. The reports come two days after Brown’s father, Bobby Brown, said his daughter’s condition had improved. ”I can say today, Bobbi is awake. She’s watching me,” Brown told the audience at Dallas’ Verizon Theatre.  The audience cheered. In a statement Monday, an attorney for the Brown family said that Bobbi Kristina Brown’s condition has improved but that the kind of life she will lead remains to be seen.  ”Doctors have indicated that she will have a long life,” attorney Christopher Brown said. ”However, Bobbi Kristina is presently embarking on a rehabilitation process, and the quality of her life will not be known for years to come.” Who’s who in the Bobbi Kristina Brown case? Bobby Brown was in an ”emotional state” on stage when he made the remarks about his daughter being awake, according to the statement.  ”She has made it out of ICU, opened her eyes and started a rehabilitation that will be long and hard,” said Bobby Brown’s wife, Alicia  .  Bobbi Kristina Brown was found unresponsive in a bathtub at her home in the Atlanta suburb of Roswell, Georgia, on January 31. The extent of her injuries is not known.  She was placed in a medically induced coma in early February. That month, doctors at Emory University Hospital removed her breathing tube, allowing Brown to be ventilated through a hole in her throat. At the time, CNN Chief Medical Correspondent Sanjay Gupta said the procedure suggested that she would need to be on such support for ”weeks and months to come.” After being treated at an   hospital for several weeks, she was moved to a rehabilitation facility in   a source close to the family told CNN at the time. Bobbi Kristina Brown: What we know, what we don’t know, Police have said they are treating Brown’s case as a criminal investigation. Bobbi Kristina’s boyfriend talks to Dr. Phil, Whitney Houston died in 2012. She was also found in a bathtub. A coroner ruled her death an accidental drowning, with heart disease and cocaine use listed as contributing factors.