The split screen told the story at the first 2016 presidential debate, and it was not kind to Donald J. Trump. At the right was his opponent, Hillary Clinton, a practiced    debater, who held long, studied gazes on her opponent, delivered calibrated attacks and turned to the audience to smile incredulously at his responses. At the left was Mr. Trump, the volatile presence who   a season of Republican debates. Now he grimaced, squinted, nodded, pursed his lips, sniffed, huffed and interrupted, becoming, over the night, an agitated man in a box. This seemed to be by Mrs. Clinton’s design. She had reportedly prepared to face two different versions of her opponent. There might be a reserved Mr. Trump, ready to reassure voters about his  . Or there might be the raging, ranting Mr. Trump of the primaries. Turns out they both showed up. The quiet Mr. Trump took the first shift, presenting a   version of his forceful campaign persona minus the bluster, insults and defenses of his anatomy. He pushed his case firmly, hitting his campaign’s focal points on the economy and trade. But it didn’t take long for Mrs. Clinton to find the other Mr. Trump under that thin second skin. Her needling began immediately. She referred to her opponent as “Donald,” where he pointedly called her “Secretary Clinton. ” (“Yes, is that O. K.?” he asked at his first reference to her.) She referred to his starting a business with a “$14 million” loan from his father, which Mr. Trump preferred to call a “very small loan. ” The digs targeted Mr. Trump’s status and founding mythos, triggering his   reflex. He became combative and rattled, letting his opponent lead him down rhetorical detours (at one point he revived an old feud with Rosie O’Donnell) knowing that he would follow his ingrained ABCs: always be counterpunching. It was Tony Soprano vs. Dr. Melfi, TV’s biggest antihero blustering against the woman who had gotten inside his head. The campaign mind games had begun before the actual contest, like fisticuffs at a    . After Mark Cuban, the billionaire bugbear of Mr. Trump, announced on Twitter that he would attend the debate, Mr. Trump threatened to invite Gennifer Flowers, whose reported affair with Bill Clinton endangered Mr. Clinton’s presidential run in 1992. But there were no big stunts on air, and little in the candidates’ styles we hadn’t seen before. Mr. Trump spoke in direct, punchy sentences and fragments: “Typical politician. All talk, no action. Sounds good, doesn’t work. ” And he used his hands as an emoji keyboard, punctuating his words with slashes, stabbing fingers and pinched O. K. gestures. Mrs. Clinton was steady and poised. At times her lines sounded rehearsed. (Stop trying to make “   ” happen. It’s not going to happen.) But one of her most effective lines, which she seemed to be waiting for a chance to use, was about preparation itself. “I think Donald just criticized me for preparing for this debate,” she said. “Yes, I did. And you know what else I prepared for? I prepared to be president. ” The two candidates’ stage styles served as campaign arguments in themselves. Mrs. Clinton’s spotlighting her debate practice was a shorthand defense of the experience that her opponents have cast as insiderism. Mr. Trump, meanwhile, has used his improvisatory style to suggest that he would govern the country by quick instinct and golden gut. (Thus his tendency to announce “called it” after tragic news events.) It’s entirely possible that their demeanors each came across as winning to their respective bases  —   one more way in which two Americas have viewed the election through different frames. But Monday night, it was Mrs. Clinton who seemed to be having the debate she wanted. Her body language was controlled, and she more often directed her attention outward toward the camera and audience. Mr. Trump, the   pro, showed less camera awareness, glaring at his opponent and directing answers downstage (presumably toward the moderator, Lester Holt, who was little seen on camera). By the end of the debate his declaration, “I also have a much better temperament than she has” drew spontaneous laughter. Some of the audience laughter and applause seemed more tactical than spontaneous, though the crowd had been warned to keep quiet. But it was nothing like the arena roar of the primary debates, which Mr. Trump in particular had thrived on. By the anarchic standards of the earlier debates, Mr. Holt kept reasonable control over the proceedings. He let exchanges run at length but was willing to step in his questions were few but  . The major focus, indeed obsession, of the   to the debate was whether Mr. Holt would be willing to   lies and inaccuracies. He did, though sparingly, for instance knocking down Mr. Trump’s claim that he had opposed the Iraq war before it began. But   loomed over the debate even when Mr. Holt wasn’t doing it. Media outlets and individual viewers were policing statements in real time online, and Bloomberg TV network did so live onscreen. Both candidates seemed aware of the magnifying glass. “Please,   get to work,” Mrs. Clinton said, after Mr. Trump told her, “You’ve been fighting ISIS your entire adult life. ” (Mrs. Clinton is 68. It was rather an overstatement.) Even Mr. Trump, whose whoppers have continually rung the bell on campaign watchdogs’    seemed briefly conscious of the scrutiny, following up a charge about the Obama administration’s debt record with the disclaimer, “to be  . ” Mr. Trump was also   and   coming off   and closing on a note of  . After Mrs. Clinton blasted him for his treatment of a beauty pageant contestant, he insinuated a dark personal attack while taking credit for not directly making it. “I was going to say something extremely rough to Hillary, to her family,” he said, “and I said to myself, ‘I can’t do it. ’” But later, talking to reporters in the spin room, Mr. Trump said that the remark had to do with Mr. Clinton’s “indiscretions. ” Asked for details, he told CNN, “I’ll tell you maybe at the next debate. ” It all depends on which Donald Trump shows up, or how many of him.