Updated, 7:48 p. m. Good evening on this   Tuesday. This is New York Tonight, a   evening roundup of the day’s most important New York stories. We are running it for a week as an experiment, so tell us what you think at nytonight@nytimes. com or in the comments. Forget the debates. It’s been quite a busy news day in New York and across the river. An   explosion destroyed a home in the Kingsbridge neighborhood of the Bronx, killing a fire chief and injuring at least a dozen other people. Mayor Bill de Blasio ordered flags to be flown at   to honor the fallen battalion chief, Michael J. Fahy, a   veteran of the Fire Department who was the father of three young children. The site of the blast is being investigated as a possible drug den. But now, it’s little more than rubble. Soon afterward, a    man was shot in   Brooklyn, by a police officer. The shooting, which did not result in   wounds, is under investigation. In Newark, the trial continued over the 2013 lane shutdown at the George Washington Bridge. David Wildstein, the confessed mastermind of the scheme, returned to the stand to tell all. Takeaways from his testimony: Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey was told of the plot during a Sept. 11 memorial service, and the news made him happy. In fact, it made him laugh. Just delightful. Amid all that’s going on, though, there’s one place where things are looking up: Penn Station. Yup. Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo announced today a $1. 6 billion face lift for the transit hub, used by more than 600, 000 travelers each day. Expect a new home for Amtrak and the Long Island Rail Road, prettier platforms and even some shopping  —   though we’re just fine filling up on Krispy Kreme. We’ll believe it when we see it, and that might not be until 2020. • New York City agreed to pay $5. 75 million to settle a suit over a Rikers inmate’s death. [New York Times] • A round of applause for some competitors  —   including several    —   who won big at the Senior Olympics on Staten Island, which continue through the end of this week. [Staten Island Advance] • In case you missed it, today is National Voter Registration Day. Here’s information on registering before the Oct. 14 deadline. [Voting. NYC] • Is noise a    issue for New Yorkers? These activists are fighting to make the city quieter. [DNAInfo] • A   sea turtle washed up on the Jersey Shore. [NBC] • Southern Brooklyn has a new hockey team. [Sheepshead Bites] • Pastrami with a side of real estate: The new apartments next to Katz’s Deli on the Lower East Side are now on sale, beginning around $1 million. [E. V. Grieve] • On tonight’s sports front: Yankees host Red Sox, 7:05 p. m. (YES). Mets at Marlins, 7:10 p. m. (SNY). • For a global look at what’s happening, see Your Evening Briefing. • Looking ahead: You can bring your pup to a   cocktail party with the television personality Rachael Ray on Wednesday evening in Manhattan  —   complete with a red carpet, finger food for you and treats for your   friend. Free, R. S. V. P. required. [RSVP@thedooronline. com] ‘Talking Parades With the Police’ Dear Diary: On my first Halloween in Gotham City, an old boyfriend and I retreated to the warmth of a deli on 50th Street. We had tried to go to the parade, but I was too cold in my flowy, black,       skirt. We were dressed as Batman and Batwoman. I had spent hours perfecting a Batwoman mask painted onto my forehead and cheeks. When I was two bites into my deli cheeseburger, three police officers approached the section where we were seated. One of the officers nonchalantly invited himself to our table, pulling up a chair. He asked us what seemed like 20, 000 questions: how old we were, how we met, our plans for the night and so on. I felt confused, nervous and slightly ridiculous in my costume. The officer’s female partner, sitting a few tables away, laughed. She eventually yelled at him to leave us alone. The tension broken, we talked with the three officers for a while. We asked if they knew the best spot if we wanted to try another parade come Thanksgiving. They got a call on their radios and had to rush away. Just when I thought I had survived my first New York Police Department questioning, the woman officer pulled out her notebook and asked for names and phone numbers. My heart skipped a beat. Were we being given a ticket? Detained? For what? She smiled and said they would give us a call if they had any leads on good viewing spots for Thanksgiving morning. We never heard back, and left the Macy’s parade early because of the cold, too.