 (CNN) While out late in the fall of 2011, Daniel Stuckey and his roommate saw a giant plush Pegasus doll sitting on the side of the curb, right outside the F. A. O. Schwarz toy store. It looked like it had been left out as trash. Pegasus’ coat was a little damp, and it seemed like it was obviously being discarded, so the two men knew they needed to take the large doll home with them.  Stuckey didn’t ask any questions. He just dashed off to get the car.  This is one of the more entertaining memories shared with CNN’s iReport following the news that the iconic F. A. O. Schwarz store on New York City’s Fifth Avenue will close its doors.  The brand, bought by Toys R Us in 2009, is not going away, but is yet to find a new place to call home.  The Fifth Avenue location is a popular attraction for many visitors to New York, and the news of its upcoming closure rekindled memories for many.  Stuckey continued his story: He and his roommate had to detach the Pegasus’ wings to get it inside a Volkswagen hatchback. He managed to drag Pegasus back to his home in Astoria, a neighborhood in Queens, where it lived with him for three years, mainly hanging out in the kitchen. Pegasus, which stands 88 inches tall, became an integral part of Stuckey’s home decor. For a while it was the staple holiday centerpiece. At one point when he lived alone in an apartment in New York, it became his   roommate. Pegasus was essentially the main attraction at Stuckey’s parties. Pegasus was moved over to a friend’s home in Newark, New Jersey, for safekeeping. But the massive plush toy transformed into one of his fondest memories of F. A. O. Schwarz. It came as a shock to him to hear that the longstanding toy store announced this week that it will be closing its doors on July 15 because of rising rent prices. The Fifth Avenue location had been home for the toy store for nearly 30 years.  Many were vocal on social media about it shutting down this summer. Online, fans shared favorite moments while strolling through the store. And the countless family memories created there. While others traveled across state lines just to pick up a personal gift.  Sometimes the line to just get in was unbearably long.  Another others braced severe weather to catch a glimpse of the storefront. But no matter the memory, F. A. O. Schwarz will surely be missed by its fans.