Sam Sifton emails readers of Cooking five days a week to talk about food and suggest recipes. That email also appears here. To receive it in your inbox, register here. Good morning. Nigella Lawson wrote a terrific article for us a few years ago about the pleasures of cooking ahead rather than, as the French put it, à la minute. She included in it a recipe that would become one of our favorites for fall: spiced beef in red wine. You could make that today, cool it, bag it in single portions and freeze them for use later  —   order in some Chinese food for dinner. Or you could just eat it for dinner tonight, accompanied by some rice, or polenta. Fall Sundays are great for   either way. On Monday night, if you’re not celebrating Rosh Hashana, maybe give Anna Jones’s recipe for a   spaghetti dinner with tomatoes and kale a try. As our Tejal Rao wrote last week, “you boil the raw pasta not just with water, but also with halved cherry tomatoes, lemon zest and greens. By the time the pasta has cooked, the liquids have reduced to form a thick, starchy sauce. ” At the start of the week, that sounds pretty great. Of course, if it’s not just the start of the week for you, but the start of a new year, maybe you’ll need more substantial fare. Cooking Melissa Clark’s  braised brisket with plums, star anise and port today will allow it to cure nicely in the refrigerator overnight. Reheat and serve! While you’re at it, give one of Joan Nathan’s new recipes for a Rosh Hashana dessert a try. Choose between a plum almond tart and an apple cider honey cake. Or make both. On Tuesday, maybe you could cook Melissa’s recipe for sweet and spicy roast chicken? (It’s awesome with couscous.) Or Mark Bittman’s  curried tofu with soy sauce? Wednesday, we’re eating fish. Would you like some salmon with parsley sauce? Or some arctic char with spinach butter? If it’s chilly enough, and you have a fireplace (lucky you) you could make Tamar Adler’s  fireplace trout. Read Trollope afterward by candlelight, and check on the horses before bed. Then, on Thursday, how about a warm bread salad to beat all bread salads, from the indefatigable Florence Fabricant, via the late, great Judy Rodgers? Accept no substitutions. And then on Friday night, you could wrap the week up with a big, fat turkey meatloaf. Or if that does not inspire, with a thick   steak. No? O. K. let’s make it a quinoa and rice bowl and call it a week. There are many, many more recipes on Cooking that you might make this week. Please save the ones you’re interested in to your recipe box, and rate them when you’re done cooking. (Share them around, as well, on email and social media: People you know need to see, right now, this easy, awesome Nancy Silverton recipe for roasted chicken thighs.) And if you run into trouble, or have something to tell us for good or for ill: cookingcare@nytimes. com. Operators are standing by. Now, do you know the term “subtweet”? Here’s an example of an excellent one, from Michiko Kakutani  —   and it’s not even on Twitter! See you tomorrow.