 (CNN) With the untimely death of his son Beau, Vice President Joe Biden has now outlived two of his children    as well as his first wife.  The magnitude of his personal loss seems rare for any vice president or president these days. But that wasn’t always the case.  In very early administrations, many vice presidents and presidents lost children at a young age    including Vice Presidents John Adams and Thomas Jefferson, who later became presidents.  Even Abraham Lincoln, who was assassinated at age 56, lived longer than three of his four children. That type of mortality was common in the days long before most vaccines existed, before penicillin was first administered in the early 1940s. Even something as simple as better knowledge of good hygiene to prevent the spread of germs helped dramatically extend longevity.     In the latter half of the 20th century, child mortality dropped even more dramatically, and it became unusual for presidents or vice presidents to lose their children. But there are notable exceptions.  Two of John F. Kennedy’s children died before they were 3 days old. And there are several more examples.  Joe Biden  The current vice president has endured the loss of a child since nearly the beginning of his political career. Weeks after he was first elected to the Senate in 1972,    Biden lost his wife, Neilia, and their    daughter in a car crash.  The couple’s two young sons, Hunter and Joseph Biden III    better known as Beau    were injured in the wreck but survived. Biden was sworn in to the Senate at the hospital where his sons were treated.  Both sons recovered. Beau Biden grew up to become a major in the Delaware National Guard, an Iraq War veteran and the attorney general of Delaware. But after battling brain cancer, Beau Biden died at age 46.  Walter Mondale, Former Vice President Walter Mondale also lost a child to brain cancer.  Eleanor Mondale Poling died in 2011 at age 51, CNN affiliate WCCO reported. She had worked as a reporter at the station.  Poling also worked for the E! network, hosting shows such as ”Wild On” and serving as an ”E! News Live” correspondent.  George H. W. Bush  While some children of ”#41” have famously entered public office, President George H. W. Bush’s daughter Robin died at a young age of leukemia.  For four decades, the Bush patriarch carried around a gold medallion in his wallet reading, ”For the Love of Robin,” the Los Angeles Times reported. A doctor originally told the Bushes that Robin had just two weeks to live.  Robin Bush lived six months after that, and died in 1953 at age 3. John F. Kennedy, Perhaps the most iconic image of John F. Kennedy’s son came at the president’s 1963 funeral, when John F. Kennedy Jr.    who turned 3 years old that day    walked up to his father’s casket and saluted it.  But tragedy had struck the young Kennedy family even before that. In 1956, Kennedy and his wife, Jacqueline, had a stillborn child, who would have been named Arabella. And in August 1963, just three months before Kennedy’s assassination, the couple’s son Patrick died two days after his premature birth. Kennedy’s brother Robert F. Kennedy was assassinated five years later, and his son John F. Kennedy Jr. died in a plane crash in 1999. Only one of Kennedy’s four children, Caroline, survived past age 40.   Abraham Lincoln  Almost a century before Kennedy’s death  Abraham Lincoln’s life was cut short by an assassin’s bullet, but the lives of three of his children were even shorter.  When Lincoln died in 1865 at age 56, three of his children had already passed. Edward Lincoln died at age 2 in 1850, possibly from diphtheria, according to the Lehrman Institute. William Lincoln died before his 13th birthday in 1862 after suffering from typhoid fever. And Thomas ”Tad” Lincoln died at age 19, possibly due to tuberculosis.  Thomas Jefferson, Jefferson and his wife, Martha, had six children, but four died before reaching adulthood, according to Monticello. org. After one of their daughters, Lucy Elizabeth, died before her first birthday, the Jeffersons decided to give their next daughter the same name. But the second Lucy Elizabeth also died young, at age 2 due to teething, worms and whooping cough.  John Adams, The country’s first vice president and second president outlived his daughter Abigail Adams, who died of breast cancer at age 48.  His son Charles Adams died in 1800    26 years before the former president himself died.  And daughter Elizabeth Adams was stillborn. George Washington, George and Martha Washington didn’t have any children of their own, but two of Martha’s children from a previous marriage    Daniel and Frances Parke Custis    died before age 5.  The President and first lady later raised Martha’s two other children from her previous marriage. Those children, Martha Parke Custis and John Parke Custis, died in 1773 and 1781    both long before Washington’s own death in 1799.  