Washington (CNN) As he sweated through a steamy   Celsius Texas day, Paul Trusten tried and tried to get in touch with Lincoln Chafee’s campaign.   What he wanted to say: If you want to make switching the United States to the metric system a centerpiece of your presidential run, we’re here to help. ”Everybody measures things. It’s not a matter of political philosophy,” he said.  Trusten, a Midland pharmacist who’s the vice president of the U. S. Metric Association, has for years wanted politicians to embrace the idea that Chafee    the former Rhode Island governor and senator    mentioned Wednesday night in his campaign’s launch speech.  But on Thursday he had no luck. ”The phone doesn’t work,” he said of Chafee’s campaign.  Trusten’s surprise to hear a presidential candidate talk about the metric system is emblematic of Chafee’s entire run for the Democratic nomination: It’s quixotic, a bit out of the blue and not that easy to understand. ”Let’s be bold. Let’s join the rest of the world and go metric,” Chafee said Wednesday night at George Mason University in Virginia.  He said it’d be a ”symbolic integration” with the rest of the world.  RELATED: Go bold, go metric, Chafee says, His spokeswoman, Debbie Rich, said Thursday that Chafee became ”intrigued” by the metric system while living in Canada in the 1970s and believes it’s ”good for our international reputation” to make the switch.  ”It came to become more of a priority with the multiple mistakes of the Iraq invasion and the subsequent loss of American prestige throughout the world,” she said. ”This is one of several fresh ideas proposed in his announcement speech and he is very serious about implementing all of them.” It’s not the first time policymakers have discussed the switch. In 1975, Congress approved a law to shift the United States away from inches and pounds and toward meters and grams, designating the metric system as America’s preferred system of measurement. President Gerald Ford signed it into law.  RELATED: Metric America: Lincoln Chafee’s vision in 20 examples, The federal government even published a   plan to convert to the metric system in 1994.  And advocates for the switch have pointed to reasons ranging from the mistakes that come from needless conversion    costing NASA a $125 million orbiter in the 1990s    to the simplicity it brings to foreign trade to the potential to avoid deadly medical mishaps. ”It’s a matter of safety, not a matter of symbolic internationalism or anything like that,” Trusten said. ”If we get rid of the other units, the pounds and the inches, and we measure everybody in metric units only, then the number of medication errors that we’ve been experiencing would be massively reduced.” But politicians weren’t eager to touch Chafee’s comments on Thursday. Presidential campaigns didn’t respond to requests for comment, and White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest largely blew off a question about the metric system in his Thursday briefing.  ”I’m not ruling out consideration of the debate that Gov. Chafee apparently thinks will be critical,” Earnest said. The United States wouldn’t be the first to make the switch. Canada did it    and Chafee touted the country’s success. Australia made the change with ease over the course of 15 years. Britain has struggled more with the change, however, as Trusten acknowledged.  Still, he said, he’s thrilled to hear a presidential candidate making the case, and he wants to know if Chafee’s campaign has white papers on the issue.  ”I’m so anxious to get a hold of Mr. Chafee’s campaign. I would think that they would have called us first    we have more information on the metric system than anybody in one place,” Trusten said.  ”We’d be delighted to help Mr. Chafee with shaping his metric plan,” he added, ”if somebody would please have him call me.”