Miami (CNN) Jeb Bush is a compassionate conservative who cares about education, the economy, domestic violence and helping people with disabilities. At least, that’s the message of a new video released from his    campaign, likely to be shown at his 2016   rally Monday in Miami.  The   video features testimonies from an   woman, a Latino man, and two other women    white men    talking about how Bush as the former   governor of Florida had an impact on their lives.  ”I’m the perfect representation of the American dream,” Miguel Manrara, an account manager, says in a thick accent.  RELATED: Bush hints at what kind of candidate he’ll be, Wearing a blue polo, Bush reiterates a message that he’s been bringing to early voting states in the past few months    that his record as an experienced executive will enable him to do what other candidates won’t: take action, instead of just talk about it.  Leadership is not about ”yapping about things,” he says in the video.  ”What we need is new leadership that takes conservative principles and applies them so that people can rise up,” Bush says. The video not only tries to drive home the narrative that Bush is aiming to tell about his candidacy    that he can appeal to nontraditional Republicans    but it also represents part of his strategy to define himself before his opponents can.  It’s a lesson learned from Mitt Romney’s unsuccessful White House bid four years ago, when Democrats spent millions crafting a negative storyline about the businessman and former governor while Romney was still battling for the GOP nomination.  RELATED: Jeb Bush’s 2016 launch strategy: Be the tortoise, not the hare, ”Mitt Romney was a successful, loving, caring, generous man    and he never showed it,” Bush said at an event in New Hampshire last month. ”The simple fact is: You’re going to get attacked. You have to show who you are first.” The new video also showcases Bush’s campaign logo    a recycled variation of his gubernatorial logos, with his first name in bold red letters, punctuated by an exclamation point at the end and underlined by the year ”2016.” 