When John Stumpf, the embattled chief executive of Wells Fargo, appeared before the House Financial Services Committee on Sept. 29 and swore to tell the truth, Representative Brad Sherman, Democrat of California, noted that he and his colleagues were engaged in “an important national ritual. ” As they pummeled him with questions, Mr. Stumpf apologized and insisted that when Wells Fargo employees opened as many as 1. 5 million bank accounts and applied for up to 565, 000 credit cards on behalf of unwitting customers, it did not “represent the true culture and nature of Wells Fargo. ” For everyone who did not believe him for a second, another important national ritual began. It is the one in which consumers, in the aftermath of yet another bank scandal, ask themselves this question: Should I finally remove     corporations from my    financial life once and for all? Plenty of people seem to be wary of large financial institutions. A survey released this week by the public relations firm the Brunswick Group found that 73 percent of American respondents would vote for a political candidate who promised increased bank regulation and that 65 percent favored smaller banks operating in local communities. If you’re looking for a financial home like that for yourself, the following should help you find one  —   and also prepare you for the troubles and pitfalls you may endure. CREDIT UNIONS Wells Fargo is a   enterprise that serves consumers, but it also serves investors who want its stock to do well. When you have two masters, one sometimes gets short shrift. Credit unions are nonprofit cooperatives that exist to serve their members. Ed Mierzwinski, consumer program director for the Federation of State Public Interest Research Groups, or U. S. PIRG, says he has done business with credit unions on and off since he was 5 years old. Some people who stick with the big banks do so out of fear that they will pay too much in A. T. M. fees if they work with a smaller institution. Mr. Mierzwinski said that because of his credit union’s network of A. T. M. s, he has paid just one fee that he can remember. Others worry that they will not qualify for credit union membership. But the rules tend to be fairly expansive, and the Credit Union National Association offers a search tool to help people find nearby institutions. Even the most principled among us, however, often can’t get past the convenience factor when considering whether to switch a primary checking account. Gary Hirshberg, a founder at Stonyfield, spent years lamenting the fact that he and his   colleagues could not find a business bank that aligned with the company’s values. But now, he has a personal account with Citizens Bank, the   bank in the United States. There is a branch near his home in a small town in New Hampshire. “I can go see them and get things notarized,” he said. Demos, a liberal public policy organization, has moved its bank accounts to Amalgamated Bank, which bills itself as the largest majority   bank in the United States. But Tamara Draut, a Demos vice president and the author of “Sleeping Giant: How the New Working Class Will Transform America,” still banks with Chase. The reason will be familiar to the many millions of people who automate as many payments as possible: Who has time to untangle all of those tentacles and   them at a different institution, no matter how upstanding? Alas, there are no shortcuts. Any switch should begin with a set of questions: Will I pay a bunch of A. T. M. fees with any new institution? Can I deposit checks using my mobile phone? Can I still pay my babysitter or my parent’s caregiver via a free wire transfer, or easily transfer money to external accounts? Then, set aside a couple of hours to deal with moving those automated payments  —   a laborious process that will inevitably cause problems. And remember: The dread that this process gives rise to is precisely what the big banks want you to feel. Some stoicism will be necessary. SMALLER BANKS If there is no credit union near you, or there isn’t one that will have you as a member, you can go shopping for a bank more in line with your values. At that point, you may ask yourself this: Why is there no Whole Foods bank? Shouldn’t there be nationwide availability of the financial equivalent of organic checking accounts? Sure, there should. But starting a bank is hard, given the intense regulatory scrutiny and the expensive technology and security measures required. Then that bank has to get customers excited enough to switch. “It’s a complicated and expensive platform to deliver what many people still think of as a commodity,” said Kat Taylor, one of the founders of Beneficial State Bank, which has 12 branches on the West Coast. She makes a pointed case, however, that her operation is different because of its values. “We think of this as the original form of crowdfunding,” she said. “We agree to pool idle cash so we can borrow it back from time to time and so it can finance the world we actually want to live in. ” A number of   banks tell similar stories about themselves, and you can search for one near you via the websites of the Global Alliance for Banking on Values and the Community Development Bankers Association. The website of the Independent Community Bankers of America is worth a look, too.   I could not get John Hodges, the managing director for Business for Social Responsibility’s global infrastructure and financial services practices, to tell me where he banks. But he did note that many of his younger colleagues are looking at nontraditional solutions for their    financial needs. “It’s not going to be about being better than the bank next door over the next five to 10 years,” he said. “It’s going to be about being better than Apple and PayPal. ” Shiny   that focus on everyday finance are everywhere these days, but Zero Financial is one I’ll be watching closely. It opens for business next year, and one of its venture capitalists recently announced an investment in Zero with a post on Twitter that included the hashtag “#bankssuck. ” Zero will offer a Visa card linked to an account that will track transactions and daily balances as if it were a debit card but process them as if they were on a credit card, allowing Zero to command higher merchant fees when people use it. Those higher fees will let Zero offer higher   rewards than a debit card could. It says its business model will let some of its customers earn as much as 3 percent cash back on every purchase, far more than leading credit card issuers offer. It is not clear if this would be sustainable, but it certainly is bold. And it represents a second prong of attack on the big banks. Zero promises great value. Other institutions promise better values. Either one is a good reason to defect. But unless enough of us do, we shouldn’t expect the big banks to change their behavior.