With Donald J. Trump’s campaign engulfed in crisis, the second presidential debate promised a clash of grand proportions: a decisive, even cataclysmic showdown between one candidate on his heels and the other, Hillary Clinton, emerging as a strong  . The confrontation did not entirely live up to that billing, but Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Trump vented their vast differences over a revealing hour and a half. Here are some of our key takeaways: Mr. Trump had long threatened to go after Mrs. Clinton for her husband’s infidelities, and had often accused her of enabling Bill Clinton’s transgressions  —   but he had never said these things to Mrs. Clinton’s face. On Sunday night, he crossed that line. Claiming that Mrs. Clinton had intimidated women who accused her husband of assault, Mr. Trump told her she “should be ashamed of herself. ” But in the end, a charge long seen as the most incendiary Mr. Trump could offer echoed for only a few minutes. Mrs. Clinton opted not to counterattack, taking the   course of saying that much of Mr. Trump’s tirade had been false, and quoting Michelle Obama’s case for avoiding retaliation in kind: “When they go low, you go high. ” Mr. Trump entered the debate as the most disliked presidential nominee in the history of polling, seen by most voters as biased against women and minorities and as lacking the temperament to be commander in chief. Shifting those perceptions is his overwhelming task in the race  —   as it has been for months  —   and it is unlikely that he accomplished that on Sunday. He expressed no contrition for virtually any of the statements and actions that have alienated voters, from denigrating a federal judge in racial terms to mocking a reporter’s physical handicap. The lone and partial exception came in Mr. Trump’s brief apology for crudely bragging about sexual assault in a 2005 recording: Mr. Trump said he regretted his comments but described them as “  talk. ” If Mr. Trump steadied himself as the night went on, he never showed a side of himself that might surprise voters and transform their overwhelmingly negative views of him. On defense for most of the evening, Mr. Trump repeatedly widened his political vulnerabilities with offhand and   comments. Criticized for demeaning a former Miss Universe, Mr. Trump derided her as “no Girl Scout” and denied having urged people to view a “sex tape,” though he did exactly that on Twitter. He bluntly contradicted his running mate, Gov. Mike Pence of Indiana, in his approach to Syria. As opponents accused him of coddling foreign dictators and aspiring to unconstitutional powers, Mr. Trump said outright that if he were president, Mrs. Clinton would be behind bars. And Mr. Trump admitted in response to a direct question that he had used a massive business loss in the 1990s to avoid paying federal income taxes for years  —   a tactic Mrs. Clinton has long accused him of exploiting. Mr. Trump has now confirmed that charge. She rarely   and did not interrupt. She sprang no surprise attacks and let Mr. Trump off the hook several times as he plainly struggled. Instead, Mrs. Clinton coolly prosecuted the case against Mr. Trump that she has offered all along, calling him unfit for the presidency and describing his candidacy as built on hate. “He owes our country an apology,” Mrs. Clinton said. She did not create an electric moment in the debate  —   the kind that might dominate news coverage for days  —   and with Mr. Trump’s fortunes falling, she likely did not need to. In a rare    remark, she said Mr. Trump’s campaign was “exploding,” an assessment few Republicans would dispute. But for Republicans who feared the night would end with abject and complete humiliation for Mr. Trump, Mrs. Clinton’s cautious approach came as something of an unexpected relief. Mr. Trump’s defiant performance may not stabilize his candidacy, but it will likely put to rest frenzied speculation over the weekend that he might be forced from the presidential race. Facing abandonment by dozens of important Republican officials, he bucked calls to withdraw and instead offered a performance his core supporters will cheer loudly. His rhetoric was stocked with buzzwords that will gratify the party base: Benghazi. Sidney Blumenthal. Deplorables. Radical Islam. And Mr. Pence, who has faced calls to ditch Mr. Trump or even to replace him as the party’s nominee for president, doused predictions that the ticket might collapse. On Twitter, Mr. Pence offered Mr. Trump hearty congratulations “on a big debate win,” and declared himself “proud to stand with you” in the race.