’  ’ ’   Cuba appears to be in a historical moment. ’ ’   In early December, Fidel Castro, . It had been my assumption   that his death was like the sun dropping out of the solar system   for the   island nation. Things were going to start   to come apart, and soon. ’ ’   I traveled to Cuba two weeks after his death with this in mind  —     expecting something, but not quite sure what. ’ ’   Though I was born after the end of the Cold War, Castro was one   of the few boogeymen of the era to retain his stature. Even as   the Soviet Union disintegrated and Russia reassembled itself, and   China underwent rapid economic growth, Cuba and Castro held   resolute. ’ ’   But he gave up power in 2006, to his brother Raul, and there have   been shy signs of liberalization since. A series of economic   reforms  has allowed Cubans   to . In   2014, US President Barack Obama and Raul  that has reopened diplomatic   relations, made it simpler for Americans  —   like me  —   to visit,   and lifted some of the economic restrictions between the   countries. ’ ’   All of this was capped off by Obama’s  and the official   commencement of flights from American commercial airlines this   fall. ’ ”   I suppose what I was expecting was the chance to witness   change  —   a nation grinding itself awake to the ways   of the majority of the world. That’s approximately what I told my   taxi driver, Rafael, as he sped out of Havana and onto an empty   highway toward the countryside one Sunday morning. He smiled   behind his   Aviator sunglasses, which were situated   over a rectangular pair of prescription glasses. ” ’   ”Everyone that gets in my car talks about change,” he said,   glancing back. ”But I don’t see any change. All I see is more of   the same.” ’ ”   The sentiment was one I heard over and over again, even as I   witnessed fruits of Cuba’s liberalization. There wasn’t a tourist   I met in the country who didn’t mention expecting to witness some   undefined change or wanting to visit   before  the change arrived, usually imagined   in the form of overweight Americans puffing cigars outside   newly built McDonald’s and Starbucks. ” ’   There’s an arrogance to that reason for visiting, which I was as   aware of in myself as in others I met along the way. It amounts   to a kind of ”poverty tourism”  —   ”look at the quaint classic   cars,” or, ”I want to visit before the Havana’s buildings are   rebuilt.” ’ ’   The Cubans I met seemed to recognize the developments, while also   remaining skeptical that after nearly 60 years of Communist rule,   any significant change would occur. A   street sweeper   said to me that all the government does is talk, and that he’d   sooner believe ”the sun, the moon, or the ocean” if it told him   something than Raul Castro and the Communist Party. ’ ’   Change in a place like Cuba is almost imperceptibly slow. The   entire culture seems predicated on waiting  —   for the bus to   arrive, for the supermarket to open, for an internet card, for   the bank. It is so ingrained that if you get on a line, shout   ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”The economy is very bad here,” Rafael said. ”The worst in the   world, I think. Nothing costs what it should. Everything is too   expensive.” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Do you know how much it costs to buy a car like this?” he asked.   Both Jai and I took a guess  —   $1, 500? $2, 000? Rafael laughed. ’ ’   ”$30, 000,” he said, letting the answer hang without explanation.   We both exclaimed surprise at the figure. ’ ’   ”Is that in CUC,” I asked, referring to the Cuban convertible   peso, the Cuban currency pegged to the US dollar and used   primarily by tourists or for Cubans to buy luxury goods. (Cuba   has a second currency known as the peso, used almost exclusively   by Cubans for basic goods, and worth   of the CUC.) ’ ’   ”CUC, dollars, euros, whatever you have,” he said, before adding,   ”$30, 000 for this!” ’ ’   He pointed at the interior of the car. It had seen better days.   The seats were collapsing, despite having been reupholstered in a   cheap, green fabric. The air conditioner blew lukewarm air. The   windows were tinted to near black, but one of the handles to roll   them down had broken off. The exterior of the car was dented and   scratched. ’ ”   Rafael went on to explain that because of the US’s      (and counting) embargo and Cuba’s general   isolation, there is a massive shortage of cars on the island,   which has driven prices to absurd levels. ” ’   I forgot to ask how he obtained his car, given that the price was   so exorbitant and loans are not common. Other taxi drivers   provided answers: They were provided cars as part of their   previous jobs for the government, were able to buy     ones and then fix them piecemeal as they made enough money, or   were handed down by family members who obtained them through   similar means. ’ ’   Every so often, a gleaming new   Geely or   South   Kia blew past us on the highway. Jai, a   car junky, asked Rafael if Cubans were driving the cars. Rafael   shook his head and explained that only government officials   receive the new cars. The rest are only there to be rented out to   tourists. ’ ’   Though some are available for purchase to Cuban citizens,   the prices, like that of Rafael’s Lada, are exorbitant. Prices   for the Asian cars top 80, 000 CUC, despite the fact that they   retail in China or the US for approximately $20, 000. The extreme   scarcity of the cars is only part of the issue, he said. The   government imposes heavy taxes on the vehicles to . ’ ’   Essentially, the only people that own cars on the island are   government workers, foreigners, and people who make their living   from driving. An increase in US tourism is unlikely to change   that reality.  ’ ’   Rafael was probably the most pessimistic person we met on   the trip. When I asked him about the prospect of Raul Castro   stepping down in a year or so, his response was that a Castro  —     any Castro  —   would replace him. (Most Cuba experts think it   would actually be  a rising star in the party and one of the   first of the   generation to gain power.) Change   in his mind was impossible, no matter how much US investment or   tourists arrive on Cuba’s shores. ’ ’   ”The people want the changes,” Rafael said, ”but the   government controls everything and it always will. Things may   change a little, but the government will always know how to get   its money.” ’ ’   He went on to explain that, because of  and the government’s tax structure,   the prices for most   are already equivalent to or   higher than their prices in the US or Europe, and therefore   unaffordable to Cubans. Increased tourism has already driven up   prices for many things on the island. And even if there is an   influx of capital from US tourists and businesses, Rafael was   skeptical any great benefit would come to the average Cuban. Most   of the money will flow back to the Cuban government, he said. ’ ’   It was a strange thing to hear from a man who told us an hour   before that he quit his agricultural engineering job for the   government because he knew he could make four times his monthly   engineering salary in a day driving tourists from Havana to   Vinales and back. ’ ’   But Rafael elaborated his point by talking about the casa   particular system, which  in their houses or   apartments to tourists for 20 to 35 CUC per night in a sort of    . (In fact, Airbnb .) The system has been around officially since   1997, when the government allowed casa hosts to register   with the government as legal businesses, though reports say   Cubans rented out rooms under the table for years before. ’ ’   The casa system is like a   where tourists can   stay with and get to know average Cubans. I had assumed that by   staying in casas instead of the   hotels we were   giving money directly to regular Cubans, but the real situation   is more murky, Rafael said.  ’ ’  ’ ’ Here’s how he put it (  by my   girlfriend, who speaks far better Spanish than I): ’ ’   ”Go outside of the casas and you will see the houses   that the rest of Cuba lives in. A strong wind would blow them   over,” he concluded. ’ ’  ’ ’   In Vinales, we saw the houses he was talking about. Past the town   center and the adjacent streets where the casas lay were     shacks pushing up out of the ground like unruly weeds.   We hired a guide, Luis, to take us through the valley on   horseback, and we sat in his   house while he saddled the   horses. He had clearly built the stable himself and the horses,   of which he had five, were unkempt and thin, but he cared for   them lovingly. He took us past his house and through tobacco   fields, a coffee plantation, and several caves. ’ ’   A former pork butcher who had been pushed out of the business   when the government nationalized the industry several years ago,   Luis had even less humor about the plight of Cuba than Rafael. ’ ’   Annie mentioned that a casa host we stayed with in   Havana said that Cubans everywhere ”are happy and content.” Luis   responded bitterly. ’ ’   ”Where? I do not see them,” he said. ’ ”   At the same time, he was far more optimistic than Rafael. He   doesn’t take for granted that he is now able to live off the   income from his ranching business  —   thanks to the influx of   tourists happy to pay for the horseback tour and the   liberalization that has allowed private enterprises to exist. ” ’  ’ ’   Everywhere in Cuba we went  —   Havana, Vinales, Trinidad, and   the places in between  —   the story was the same. ’ ’   The taxi drivers and tour guides we met are doctors, engineers,   and professors who either retired early or quit out of   frustration at the low salaries. (In Cuba, such highly regarded   professions make barely more than a street sweeper.) Instead,   they picked up serving tourists because, as Rafael said, they can   make four times in a day what they used to make in a month. ’ ’   The level of education and potential wasting away behind steering   wheels or taking orders at the   restaurants is   discouraging. Still, again and again, the same people who   lamented the difficulty of their situation and the overbearing   nature of the Cuban government would, in the same breath, defend   the legitimacy of the revolution due to the education, food, and   healthcare provided to the poor. ’ ’  ’ ’   On our last day in the country, we spent about 15 minutes   standing on Linea Avenue in Vedado, one of the more upscale   sections of Havana, waiting to get a ride from a   collectivo (think UberPool). After successfully coaxing   a rusty red   Ford to stop for us, we hopped into the   front seat. All the other seats were taken. A   man   no more than a few years older than me took a coin from someone   in the backseat and introduced himself as Javier. ’ ’   Like other Cubans we met, he was excited by the prospect of   speaking to Americans, who even now rarely visit the island, he   said. Javier spoke excellent English and Annie asked him where he   learned it. He told us that he learned at the University of   Havana, where he was taught by one of the last professors to be   educated before the revolution. Prior to the revolution, he   explained, many of the classes and books were taught in English.   I asked if this meant he studied linguistics, but he shook his   head. Like so many of our taxi drivers, he was an engineer. But   not anymore. ’ ’   I asked why. ’ ’   ”I used to work for a company that is controlled by the   government, but it wasn’t enough,” he said. ”I got paid 20 CUC   per month. I also got a car and a cell phone. So it wasn’t all   bad. But I didn’t want those things handed to me. I wanted to   earn them myself. I wanted to make the money myself. There was   nowhere to go once you are there. So I left.” ’ ’   He explained that, after quitting, he joined one of  to Equatorial Guinea to help the   country eliminate malaria. He spent five years there working on   the project and he loved it, describing it as one of the best and   most freeing experiences of his life. He particularly enjoyed   when he was able to enter the American compounds of oil   conglomerates, which he said were set up like  . ’ ’   Reality came crashing down three years ago, however, when his   father died. There was no one left to support his family  —   his   siblings and his two young children  —   so he returned home. He   couldn’t bring himself to go back to the IT job, so he scraped   together 1, 500 CUC to buy the Ford. He qualified the price by   saying that the entire vehicle needed to be replaced  —   it was   more or less just a shell. Piece by piece, he put in a new   engine, new floorboards, new seats, new clutch. Next on his list   was the roof. But it was all worth it. ’ ’   It didn’t seem to occur to him that driving the   collectivo, which more or less means following the same   bus route day in and day out, might be boring. To him, he was   running his own business and that’s what was important. For every   rider, almost all Cubans, collectivos make   cents   CUC. Collectivos appeared to always be at or   near their full capacity of five passengers. It is far more   lucrative than his old job, he said. ’ ’   We spent some time talking about why Annie and I came to Cuba now    —   the 2014 agreement between Obama and Raul, the desire to see   Cuba before and during the change, and the prospect that the     thaw could be undone by   Donald Trump, who   . Javier   laughed. ’ ’   ”The Cuban people have suffered a lot. We’ve survived a lot,” he   said. ”We survived Nixon, two Bushes   …     we’ll   survive Donald.” ’ ’   To Javier, the opening of Cuba, the flowering of businesses and   industry and so on, is inevitable. Tourism is a big business, and   he suggested that he, and many Cubans, are ready for it.   Annie commented that because he speaks fluent English, he is a   prime candidate to be a tour guide to   tourists.   He smiled and said that he’d been looking into getting training   from a tour company. ’ ’   As if assuming the role, he began to point out buildings to us   near Paseo de Marti, one of the main strips in Old Havana  —   the   Bacardi building, the national ballet school, Hotel Inglaterra,   and finally Capitolio, . ’ ’   ”There is so much tradition in Cuba that was inspired by   America,” he said. ”Many Cubans have forgotten, but you can see   it in the buildings. ” ’ ’   Before we got out at Capitolio, our destination, Javier thanked   us for coming to Cuba and told us to encourage more Americans to   visit. He said that what we read about on the news is not the   ”real Cuba” and that we (and other Americans) can only begin to   understand by visiting. ’ ’   ”The reality is not simple,” he said of Cuba. ”There is good and   bad here, like every place. It is complicated.” ’ ” [Editor’s note: All names have been changed to protect the   identities of those quoted.] ”