’  ’ ’   Fox News host Bill O’’Reilly raised eyebrows earlier this year   when he  he may not be interested in hosting his ratings   juggernaut ”The O’’Reilly Factor” for much longer. ’ ’   When the   heavyweight eventually decides to retire, a   piece of his legacy will live on in a protégé groomed for Fox   News stardom: Jesse Watters. ’ ’   ”I think he’’s either living vicariously through me, or he’’s   reliving things he did back in the day,” Watters said of   O’’Reilly. ’ ’   Over the past decade, Watters’’ segments on O’’Reilly’’s show  —     dubbed ”Watters World” by O’’Reilly  —   have become an integral part   of the broadcast, bookending ”The O’’Reilly Factor” twice a week. ’ ’   Ranging several minutes, ”Watters World” finds the Fox   correspondent interviewing and poking fun at average people on   the street in primarily liberal enclaves, often college campuses   or various neighborhoods in New York City. Recent episodes showed   Watters interviewing Canadians about   Donald Trump   and interviewing veterans at Hampshire College protesting the   school’’s decision to take down the flag following Trump’’s   election. ’ ’’ ”   Watters also serves as an extension of O’Reilly during ambush   interview segments, unafraid to get into his interview subject’s   face with aggressive questions, unrelenting particularly when his   questions are unwelcome. ” ’   ”When the cause is just and there’’s been injustice, then it’’s   easy to kind of galvanize your emotions and confront a guy,”   Watters told Business Insider in an interview in December. ”And   it’’s intense and there’’s a lot of adrenaline involved, but those   usually make a big splash.” ’ ”   O’Reilly will often tease the segments, which are stacked at the   back of the program, with the idea that they are a draw for   viewers. ” ”   According to Watters, O’Reilly generates many of the ideas for   the segments himself and often has visuals and locations in mind. ” ’   ”Usually he’’ll say, like, ’’This is kind of how I want you to   approach it,’’ and then he’’ll give me one line, and then I have to   fill in the rest,” Watters said. ”Bill is very understanding of   the backdrop of the segment. I think because he was a field guy   for so many years, he’’s very interested in aesthetics behind the   ’’Watters World,’’ where it’’s being shot, why it’’s being shot   there.” ’ ’   But while Watters described 2016 as a banner year for the show,   with high ratings and interviews with   guests like     presidential nominee Donald Trump, Watters has   also found his brand of     and ambush interviews   under greater scrutiny. ’ ”   In October, Watters  over a       segment he shot in New York’s Chinatown. ” ’   Ostensibly dispatched to discuss China’’s role in the 2016   presidential election, Watters invoked numerous racial   stereotypes of   for a laugh. He quizzed people   about whether it was the ”year of the dragon,” inquired about   karate lessons, and asked whether he was supposed to bow to Asian   passersby he saw on the street. ’ ’   The segment was  by media outlets and   lawmakers alike  —   The Washington Post dubbed it ”,”   while Sen. Brian Schatz of Hawaii said Watters ”should be   ashamed” of his conduct. ’ ’   Though he offered a fairly restrained apology in October, Watters   characterized the segment as a mistake and a learning experience. ’ ’   ”I was surprised, at the time, with the blowback,” Watters told   Business Insider. ”I didn’’t see it coming, and that’’s on me. I   understand I did offend a lot of people, and I’’m very sorry for   that. People took issue with some of the statements I made, and   some of the reaction to the Chinatown segment, and I understand   that. And it’’s a learning experience  —   I definitely learned a lot   from it. But it’’s a new day, and we are moving forward with it.” ’ ’   He added: ”It’’s a controversial segment, ’’Watters World. ’’ There’’s   controversy around it. There’’s controversy around Fox, I   understand that. But I listen to people, and I never want to   intentionally cause anybody to be upset. It was never my   intention to hurt people’’s feelings. And I regret that I did hurt   people’’s feelings.” ’ ’   Asked if he would have conducted himself differently, Watters   paused. ’ ’   ”I would, but I don’’t want to dissect this segment  —   I think it’’s   been dissected,” he replied. ’ ”   It wasn’t Watters’ first time facing criticism; at one point, the   Fox News correspondent found himself in a brief physical   altercation with Huffington Post editor Ryan Grim over Watters’     ambush of Huffington Post editor Amanda Terkel. ” ”   More recently, Washington Post media columnist Erik Wemple    for eschewing a   traditional   or phone interview in favor of an ambush.   Wemple took issue with Watters’ decision to stick his foot into   the president of Hampshire College’s private residence during an   ambush interview about the college’s decision not to fly the   American flag. ” ’   Asked about the criticism, Watters indicated he did not know who   Wemple was and noted that Hampshire reversed course just days   after the segment aired. ’ ’   ”I’’ll let that speak for itself,” Watters said. ’ ’   Watters added: ”I don’’t pay attention to a lot of that stuff that   they write. It doesn’’t really bother me that much. I stand by my   work, especially the confrontations. There are heroes and   villains out there in the media landscape, in the news landscape,   in the political landscape. People sometimes get called out, they   react how they react. And I’’m proud of what I do.” ’ ’   Viewers of ”The O’’Reilly Factor” and Fox News have been equally   unshaken by critics, teeing up Watters for perhaps one of his   biggest career years. ’ ’   The correspondent will reprise his role as anchor during Fox’’s   New Year’’s Eve special, and he is set to make his debut on   O’’Reilly’’s nationwide comedy tour. Watters has also been able to   maintain the ratings dominance of ”The O’’Reilly Factor” when   filling in for the bombastic host, easily besting CNN and MSNBC   when anchoring the show in December. ’ ’   Watters himself hinted at a potentially larger role at the   network in the coming year. ’ ’   ”Whatever Fox wants me to do, I’’ll do,” Watters said. ”I’’m just   going to keep working hard, keep my head down. There may be a few   surprises coming up in the new year  —   you’’ll have to stay tuned   for that. You may be seeing a little bit more of me.” ’ ”   For the moment, Watters is anticipating how the incoming   administration’s politics will affect many of his       segments, which have often revolved around   questioning liberal dogma and Obama administration policies. ” ’   Though he said that poking fun at the left ”never gets old,” he   acknowledged that he was ”getting a little tired” of soliciting   responses to the Obama administration’’s practices. ’ ’   ”I think it’’s time for a change,” Watters said. ”I think Donald   Trump is going to make Watters World great again. Because it’’s   going to be a new dynamic on the streets. And that’’s something   I’’m looking forward to. It’’s definitely going to turn the whole   thing upside down, and that’’ll be a new challenge.” ’ ’ Disclosure: This reporter briefly worked as a fellow at The   Huffington Post. ’