’  ’ ’   WASHINGTON (Reuters)   A top aide to   Donald Trump   said in an interview aired on Sunday that the White House may   have disproportionately punished Russia by ordering the expulsion   of 35 suspected Russian spies. ’ ’   Incoming White House press secretary  that   Trump will be asking questions of U. S. intelligence agencies   after President Barack Obama imposed sanctions last week on two   Russian intelligence agencies over what he said was their   involvement in hacking political groups in the 2016 U. S.   presidential election. ’ ’   Obama also ordered Russia to vacate two U. S. facilities as part   of the tough sanctions on Russia. ’ ’   ”One of the questions that we have is why the magnitude of this?   I mean you look at 35 people being expelled, two sites being   closed down, the question is, is that response in proportion to   the actions taken? Maybe it was; maybe it wasn’’t but you have to   think about that,” Spicer said. ’ ’     ’ ’ ’ ’   Trump is to have briefings with intelligence agencies this week   after he returns to New York on Sunday. ’ ’   On Saturday, Trump expressed continued skepticism over whether   Russia was responsible for computer hacks of Democratic Party   officials. ’ ’   ”I think it’’s unfair if we don’’t know. It could be somebody else.   I also know things that other people don’’t know so we cannot be   sure,” Trump said. ’ ”   He said he would disclose some information on the issue on   Tuesday or Wednesday, without elaborating. It is unclear if, upon   taking office on Jan. 20, he would seek to roll back Obama’s   actions, which mark a   War low in U. S.  ties. ” ’   Spicer said that after China in 2015 seized records of U. S.   government employees ”no action publicly was taken. Nothing,   nothing was taken when millions of people had their private   information, including information on security clearances that   was shared. Not one thing happened.” ’ ’   ”So there is a question about whether there’’s a political   retribution here versus a diplomatic response,” he added. ’ ’  ’ ’   U. S. intelligence agencies say Russia was behind hacks into   Democratic Party organizations and operatives before the   presidential election. Moscow denies this. U. S. intelligence   officials say the Russian cyber attacks aimed to help Trump   defeat Democrat Hillary Clinton. ’ ’   Republican John McCain, chairman of the Senate Armed Services   Committee, has scheduled a hearing for Thursday on foreign cyber   threats and has said that Russia must be made to pay the price   for attacks ”on our very fundamentals of democracy. ’ ’   The top Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee said on the   same ABC program that Congress would push for an even harsher   reprisal against Russia and warned Trump against undoing Obama’s   sanctions. ’ ’   ”We think that more has to be done. We don’’t think that frankly   the steps that have been taken are enough of a deterrent,” said   Representative Adam Schiff, a California Democrat. “And you’’re   going to see bipartisan support in Congress for stronger   sanctions against Russia.” ’ ’   Senator Tom Cotton, a Republican from Arkansas, said on ”Fox News   Sunday” that Obama’’s sanctions were not enough. ’ ’   Russian President Vladimir Putin decided not to expel anyone in   retaliation, saying he would consider the actions of Trump when   deciding on further steps. Trump, who has repeatedly praised   Putin, said the Russian leader was ”very smart” for holding back. ’ ”   Russian diplomats who were expelled by Obama left Washington on   Sunday, Russian news agencies reported, citing Russia’s embassy. ” ’     ’ ’   (Additional reporting by Richard Cowan in Palm Beach, Fla.;   Editing by Mary Milliken) ’