’There are so many diets out there, but figuring out which one will actually work for you can be tough.’ ’Luckily, scientists have found that  compared to not following a diet at all. Overall, studies have shown that  for weight loss.’ ”But many popular diets aren’t based on sound scientific principles.” ”If you’re setting a New Year’s resolution to lose weight in 2017, here’s what the science says about 15 popular diets, so you can decide which one  —   if any  —   might be right for you.” ”What you do: The  is a   program designed by cardiologist Arthur Agatston in 2003. In the  you cut out all carbs, fruits, and alcohol. In phases two and three, you gradually add some of those foods back in (as far as carbs go, you’re only supposed to eat   ones). It’s important to note that this is a commercial diet, so you may have to buy the official plan and materials.” ’What the science says: The diet focuses on whole foods, which is good since .  could leave you lacking nutrients, though. Some  a condition with symptoms including bad breath, dry mouth, tiredness, dizziness, insomnia, nausea, and constipation. Studies have found South Beach diets (or )  but researchers  to see if it helps them . The problem here is that while the second two phases of the diet are somewhat reasonable, the first phase is very restrictive, so some people might have trouble sticking to it.’ ’What you do: On the  (the one ) their SmartPoints program assigns foods points based on their nutritional values. You get a set number of points per day depending on your height, weight, gender, age, activity level, and how many pounds you want to lose. The plan can cost between about $20 and $70 a month, depending on whether you pay for   like coaching or meetings.’ ”What the science says: Research has  about Weight Watchers’ sensible rules, and the  with what nutritionists recommend.  on the plan for a year lost nearly 7 pounds. And  Weight Watchers members also tend to  and blood pressure. An  found that participants on Weight Watchers for a year typically paid $70 per pound lost, but gained $54, 130 in quality of life improvement.” ”What you do: There are many different kinds of vegetarians, but  you don’t eat meat or fish.” ’What the science says: In observational studies,  than their carnivorous counterparts. Cutting meat from your diet could reduce your environmental impact as well, . You have to make sure you get enough nutrients (especially protein) from other sources like nuts, grains, and dairy, though. But the benefits could be considerable:  is linked with lower chances of heart disease and cancers, and higher chances of living longer.’ ’What you do:  meat, fish, or dairy products  —   basically anything that came from an animal.’ ”What the science says:  veganism has many of the same benefits as vegetarianism, including lowered risk for heart disease and cancer. Vegans also tend not to be obese, have high blood pressure, or get type 2 diabetes. Since you’re cutting many more foods from your diet, however, you have to be extra vigilant to get .” ”What you do:  that focus on whole grains, nuts, and fish. Don’t eat very much (or any) red meat, sweets, eggs, or butter. Use olive oil as your main fat and don’t be afraid to have .” ’What the science says:  that men in Italy had lower risks of heart disease in the  and later concluded that the Mediterranean diet was a major reason why. Since then, it has become one of the  that following it can help lower risks of heart disease, stroke, high blood pressure, and . It has also  though researchers note that  —   like with any diet you follow  —   it has to truly  in order to give you these benefits  .’ ”What you do: Only eat foods that aren’t heated above 115 degrees Fahrenheit. That means you can’t have pasta, most meats, pasteurized dairy products, or processed foods. It’s like a cold vegan diet.” ”What the science says: Raw food eaters get a ton of fruits and vegetables, which . But the raw food diet cuts out a lot of food groups, meaning you could miss out on the essential nutrients your body needs if you don’t actively try to get them all from what you can eat. It can also be a lot of work to prepare and transform raw ingredients into desirable, edible foods.  people on the raw food diet   —   namely because they’re   —   but that they tended to lack key nutrients like Vitamin A.” ’What you do: There are several  of   diets out there, but they all prescribe you eat less (or no) carbs. You typically replace these processed, sugary carbohydrates with fruits, vegetables, and meat. These diets also often have phases that start out more strict and gradually taper off over time so your body allegedly stops ”craving” carbs.’ ’What the science says:  has emerged as quite favorable over the last several years.  to treat epilepsy in children, but have since turned into a popular option for many adults. The  will force the body to burn stored fat instead,   weight loss.  may include nausea, headaches, bad breath, constipation, and tiredness, though.  that  and they also .’ ’What you do: The  is designed to lower your blood pressure. You cut your sodium intake, switching from the sugary foods and red meats that so many Americans eat to whole grains, lean protein, and produce.’ ”What the science says: Public health  as one of the most effective, and US News and World Report has . That’s because it’s based on pretty sound research.  that people on the DASH diet  and  and . But people are much more likely to get these results if they actually stick to the diet, which can be tough, . The daily recommended sodium limit for adults is 2, 300 milligrams, and .” ’What you do:  or gather. This means no cultivated grains or livestock.’ ’What the science says: We know cutting most processed foods and sugar out of your diet can be beneficial. A  and might have reduced their heart disease risk on the paleo diet, but these effects didn’’t appear to be more than other participants on similarly   diets. A  but noted the researchers only studied the diet intervention  . Cutting out main food groups like dairy and grains could prevent you from getting the nutrients you need, though. ”If you want to copy your paleolithic ancestors, you’’re better off mimicking their activity levels,” the .’ ”What you do: Avoid all grains, including bread, cereal, wheat, barley, and rye.  when they eat gluten (the protein found in grains) that can cause diarrhea, tiredness, weight loss, bloating, anemia, and possibly serious complications over time if they don’t cut it out of their diets.” ’What the science says: Record numbers of people are   now, despite the fact that a 2016 study found that  since 2009.  that many people feel better when they cut gluten out of their diets because this also means they eat fewer sugary, processed foods. People on  can be at  found in grains, like iron, fiber, and riboflavin. There  that a  could help you lose weight, and  on the diet. But for the 1% of the US population who has celiac disease, going   can save them from the gastrointestinal distress that grains cause them.’ ’What you do:  especially. Eat lean protein, fruits, vegetables, and grains.’ ”What the science says: The  was the prevailing nutrition advice for decades, but it’s recently .  but  and calories, making them undesirable replacements. In a  that included over 68, 000 people  a team of Harvard researchers found that people on   diets didn’t lose more weight than people following other kinds of diets  —   suggesting any sensible diet you can stick to should work.” ’What you do: On the  you eat normally for five days of the week, and then drastically reduce your calorie intake (500 a day for women, 600 for men) on the other two days. It’’s a method known as ”. ”’ ’What the science says:  that intermittently fasting mice tend to  but they  to draw the same kinds of .  headaches, dizziness, difficulty concentrating, and irritability (a. k. a. feeling ””). Restricting your calorie intake drastically for only two days may be easier to maintain than doing it moderately all the time, but you have to be careful not to overeat on your five regular days. A  women lost a similar amount of weight on a 5:2 diet as on one that restricted their calories all seven days of the week. If you try this diet, the important thing to remember is to keep making healthy choices  —   no matter how many calories you’’re eating.’ ”What you do:  dairy, grains, legumes, soy, alcohol, sugar, and processed foods for 30 days straight. You don’t have to count calories or weigh yourself.” ”What the science says: Restrictive diets can be much harder to follow, and  is a very restrictive diet. It’s also a   plan, not the type of   lifestyle change that typically yields better results over time. Whole 30 is somewhat similar to the Paleo diet, which has only shown modest   effects in studies. Scientists haven’t studied Whole 30 specifically yet. But Dr. ” ”What you do: Eat foods like fruits, vegetables, nuts, and tofu to maintain your body’s natural slightly alkaline pH levels around 7. 4. Avoid acidic foods like meat, sugar, dairy, alcohol, caffeine, and processed foods that could lower your pH.  80% of what you eat comes from alkalizing foods, with only 20% coming from   foods.” ”What the science says: Much of the diet’s advice  —   mainly cutting down on meat, sugar, alcohol, and processed foods  —   is sound, but it’s making these recommendations based on faulty information. The  . Proponents of the diet claim that acidic foods make your body work harder to digest them, but that . Some also say that the  but . Eating more fruits and vegetables is always a good idea, but cutting out several major food groups entirely could leave you lacking key nutrients. Scientists haven’t studied whether the alkaline diet could help you lose weight.” ’What you do: Eat only a specified food or juices for a certain amount of time. Cleanses can also go by the name ”detox,” and celebrities often swear by them. Hopefully I don’’t have to remind you that celebrities are generally not scientists.’ ’What the science says: Research is abundantly clear about . The whole concept that detoxes or cleanses remove toxins from your body doesn’’t match up with . Toxins do not ”build up” inside you (with the exceptions of actual poisoning or organ failure, of course) because the liver and . A  on detox diets last year concluded that ”there is no compelling evidence to support the use of detox diets for weight management or toxin elimination. ”’