’  ’ ’   An interview between CNN host  ’ ’   Trump said on Saturday that he ”” about the alleged Russian hack that he would reveal   in the coming days. ’ ’   Spicer said on CNN’’s ”New Day” that conclusions should not yet be   drawn because intel reports about Russia’’s involvement are not   final. ’ ’   ”[F]or anybody to be going out and talking about what’’s in the   report  —   it’’s not final yet. And I think the idea that we’’re   jumping to conclusions before we have a final report . .. is   frankly irresponsible,” Spicer said. ’ ’   Acknowledging that Spicer had not answered her question, Camerota   returned to her original question. ’ ’   ”It’’s Mr. Trump who said he’’s going to reveal something. So what   is it? . .. He is getting intel briefings. Is he going to reveal   something from an intel briefing?” she said. ’ ’   Spicer categorically denied that Trump would reveal anything he   had been briefed on since it was classified information. ”He’’s   going to talk about his conclusions [on the report] and where he   thinks things stand. So he’’s not going to reveal anything that   was privileged or shared with him or classified,” Spicer said. ’ ’   Spicer said that Trump wants to ”make sure that people understand   that there [are] a lot of questions out there.” ’ ”   He also doubled down on Trump’s claim that the White House has a   politically motivated incentive to address the alleged   interference of a foreign government in the US election.  ” ’   ”Is the response of this administration . .. proportional with the   activities that have happened? And number two, is it a political   response to Russia, or is it a diplomatic response, because we   haven’’t seen these kind of sanctions in peacetime in our   history,” Spicer said.  ’ ’   ”It’’s only until Donald Trump won that [the Obama administration   seems] to want to react to Russia,” he continued.  ’ ’   Camerota then reminded Spicer that the question was about Trump   and what he would do if the intelligence community concludes that   Russia did interfere with the election. Spicer said Trump would   ”meet with his team, take their recommendations, and make a   conclusion based on that as to what a proportional response   should and could be.”  ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’t.: ”Irresponsible” for Obama to act on intel report on alleged Russian hacking as it is not yet final  ’