’  ’ ’   You may be one of those people who sees January 1 as the perfect   opportunity for a   resolution. ’ ’   But there’’s a good chance that resolution could do more harm   than good, said  a social psychologist at Harvard Business School and   author of the book ”.” ’ ’   ”We’’re really bad at setting reasonable goals,” Cuddy told   Business Insider in 2014. And when we don’’t meet an unreasonable   goal, we fill ourselves with feelings of anxiety and lower our    . ’ ’   In ”,”   she explores how being authentic to our ”true selves” is . ’ ”   She told Business Insider there are four common mistakes   with New Year’s resolutions. ” ’’ ’   ”People are making absolute statements about what they’’re going   to do, and that’’s setting them up for failure immediately,” Cuddy   said, ”because they’’re not always going to go to the gym   three times a week.” ’ ’   For that example, you may start to religiously work out at the   gym, but at some point in the year there may be a period where   the flu keeps you in bed for a week or a few days when you need   to set aside your plans for the sake of your job or family. ’ ’   On the other hand, it’’s just as unhelpful to come up with a vague   and distant goal, such as ”I’’m going to get a job,” because   there’’s nothing to latch onto. ’ ’   People ”tend to focus on things they want to change about   themselves and things they dislike about themselves,” Cuddy said. ’ ’   When you do this, ”you’’re eliciting in yourself negative   emotions. Some negative emotions are motivating, but for the most   part, they’’re not,” she explained. ’ ’   If you say, ”I’’m going to stop eating junk food,” to use an   example, you’’re denigrating yourself before even getting started.   You’’re better off framing your goal as ”eating healthier” so that   you’’ll remain motivated and optimistic. ’ ’   ”If you’’re focused on walking 100 miles, and you’’re just   constantly focused on that number 100 miles and trying to track   your progress, it’’s going to be pretty friggin’’ demoralizing most   of the way,” Cuddy said. ”You’’re going to feel like a failure for   so much of that because the comparison is between where I am now   versus where I want to be.” ’ ”   And finally, it’s a bad idea to incorporate other people and   moments of luck into your  . ” ”   If you’re going for a promotion at work, you’ll be doing yourself   a favor by focusing on steps along the way related to your   performance. But starting off with the idea that you’re a failure   if you don’t get the position disregards plenty of factors beyond   your control, such as the mindset of your boss and any other role   changes within the company. ” ’   In ”Presence,” Cuddy advocates for ”” a process of   constantly setting small goals in lieu of large ones. ’ ”   And while she is not a fan of grandiose New Year’s resolutions,   she said she can still appreciate that people want to use January   1 as a symbolic day to start with a goal, as long as it’s one   that allows room for   and doesn’t cause too much   stress. ” ’   Cuddy said that one of her goals last year was ”to fall in love   with running,” avoiding any specific number of miles or pace   times. She started with a simple   to reach a jogging   pace where she would still be able to carry a conversation   without getting winded, and started building from there. ’ ”   As a natural byproduct of this approach, her pace began to pick   up. And she didn’t even have to shame herself into getting into   better shape. ” ’ A version of this story ran in 2015. ’