’  ’ ’   Warren Buffett is one of the greatest investors of  . ’ ’   But his wisdom runs much deeper than just investing. ’ ’   Warren Buffett is also an incredible businessman and manager, and   it’s really these qualities  —   in addition to his investing skill    —   that’s helped him build  into one of the largest and   most profitable companies in the world. ’ ’   But despite what most people think, he didn’t do it alone. ’ ’   Warren Buffett had a lot of help from people like his partner    and he’s been able to hire,   recruit, and incentivize amazing managers like  and . ’ ’   How has Warren Buffett been able to build such a formidable team,   and in turn such a successful company? ’ ’   The secret lies in what Warren Buffett looks for in people   when he hires them: integrity,   intelligence, and energy. ’ ’   Warren Buffett loves to teach. The following is a “sermon” that   Buffett has often gives to MBA students when he comes talk   to them  —   including first at the  (download a transcript of   Buffett’s full lecture ) and again later at the . Here Warren Buffett breaks   down why those three qualities  —   integrity, intelligence, and   energy  —   are so important: ’ ’ Play one game a little bit with me for just a minute  …     ’ ’ I’d like for the moment to have you pretend I’ve made you a   great offer, and I’ve told you that you could pick any one of   your classmates  —   and you now know each other probably pretty   well after being here for a while. You have 24 hours to think it   over and you can pick any one of your classmates, and you get 10   percent of their earnings for the rest of their lives. And I ask   you, what goes through your mind in determining which one of   those you would pick? You can’t pick the one with the richest   father, that doesn’t count. I mean, you’ve got to do this on   merit. But, you probably wouldn’t pick the person that gets the   highest grades in the class. ’ ’ I mean, there’s nothing wrong with getting the highest grades   in the class, but that isn’t going to be the quality that sets   apart a big winner from the rest of the pack. Think about who you   would pick and why. And I think you’ll find when you get through,   you’ll pick some individual  —   you’ve all got the ability, you   wouldn’t be here otherwise. And you’ve all got the energy. I   mean, the initiative is here, the intelligence is here throughout   the class. But some of you are going to be bigger winners than   others. ’ ’ And it gets down to a bunch of qualities that, interestingly   enough, are  . I mean it’s not how tall you are. It’s not   whether you can kick a football 60 yards. It’s not whether you   can run the 100 yard dash in 10 seconds. It’s not whether you’re   the best looking person in the room. It’s a whole bunch of   qualities that really come out of Ben Franklin, or the Boy Scout   codes, or whatever it may be. I mean, it’s integrity, it’s   honesty, it’s generosity, it’s being willing to do more than your   share, it’s just all those qualities that are  . ’ ’ And then if you look on the other side of the ledger, because   there’s always a catch to these free gifts and genie jokes. So,   you also have to  —   and this is the fun part  —   you also have to   sell short one of your classmates and pay 10 percent of what they   do. So, who do you think is going to do the worst in the class?   This is way more fun. And think about it again. And again, it   isn’t the person with the lowest grades or anything of the sort.   It’s the person who just doesn’t shape up in the character   department. ’ ’ We look for three things when we hire   people. We look for intelligence, we   look for initiative or energy, and we look for   integrity. And if they don’t have the latter,   the first two will kill you, because if you’re going to get   someone without integrity, you want them lazy and dumb. I mean,   you don’t want a spark of energy out of them. So it’s that third   quality. But everything about that quality is your choice. ’ ’ You know, you can’t change the way you were wired much, but   you can change a lot of what you do with that wiring. And it’s   the habits that you generate now on those qualities, or those   negatives qualities. I mean the person who always claims credit   for things they didn’t do, that always cuts corners, that you   can’t count on. In the end those are habit patterns, and the time   to form the right habits is when you’re your age. I mean it   doesn’t do me much good to get golf lessons now. If I’d gotten   golf lessons when I was your age I might be a decent golfer. ’ ’    ’ ’   But, someone once said “the chains of habit are too light to be   felt until they’re too heavy to be broken. ” And I see that all   the time. I see people with habit patterns that are     when they’re 50 or 60 and they really can’t   change then, they’re imprisoned by them. But you’re not   imprisoned by anything. So, when you write down the qualities of   that person that you’d like to buy 10 percent of, look at that   list and ask yourself, is there anything on that list I couldn’t   do? ’ ’ And the answer is there won’t be. And when you look at the   person you sell short, and you look at those qualities that you   don’t like, if you see any of those in yourself  —   egotism,   whatever it may be, selfishness  —   you can get rid of that. That   is not ordained. And if you follow that, and Ben Franklin did   this and my old boss Ben Graham did this at early ages in their   young teens, Ben Graham looked around and he said, “Who do I   admire?” And he wanted to be admired himself and he said, “Why do   I admire these other people?” And he said, “If I admire them for   these reasons, maybe other people would admire me if I behave in   a similar manner. ” And he decided what kind of a person he wanted   to be. ’ ’ And if you follow that, at the end you’ll be the person you   want to buy 10 percent of. I mean that’s the goal in the end, and   it’s something that’s achievable by everybody in this room. So   that’s the end of the sermon. ’ ’   If you want to get hired by Warren Buffett, you just need to   show him that you have three things: integrity, intelligence, and   energy. ’ ’ Intelligence ’ ’   The intelligence component is obvious  —   you need the mental   capacity to do the job. But as Buffett points out in his sermon,   there are many smart people around (Buffett even notes that every   one of the MBA students he was speaking to were already smart   enough to succeed). But the person “who you would want 10% of”   isn’t necessarily the person who gets the highest grades. ’ ’   In fact, Buffett has made this point several times: ’ ’ “You don’t need to be a rocket scientist. Investing is not a   game where the guy with the 160 IQ beats the guy with 130   IQ. ” ’ ’ “If you are in the investment business and have an IQ of 150,   sell 30 points to someone else. ” ’ ’ Energy ’ ’   Having energy is also an obvious choice. (Don’t worry, this   doesn’t mean you have to be someone who is jumping up and down   all day  —   Buffett clarifies that by energy he   means someone who takes initiative). Clearly, you   can’t succeed if you’re lazy. You have to take initiative, you   have to be entrepreneurial, and you have to make things happen  —     either for yourself or your company. ’ ’ Integrity ’ ’   Integrity is the missing piece of the puzzle. If you want to   become someone who Warren Buffett would hire, this is the most   important quality that you should develop. ’ ’   Think about it. Would you want to work with someone who is   intelligent and driven, but who doesn’t have integrity? Of course   not! In fact, that is probably the absolute last person you would   want to work with (*ahem*  …    ever hear of ? ). Buffett jokes that if someone   doesn’t have integrity, then at least you want them to be dumb   and stupid. ’ ’   The best part about this quality is that it’s completely    . ’ ’   You can’t control your height, your looks, or how fast you   run. But you can completely control whether or not you have   integrity, if you’re honest, if you’re generous, and if you’re   willing to do more than your fair share. ’ ’   The next step toward a successful hire is finding someone   who is driven and shows initiative. Warren Buffett isn’t the   only person who does this. Famous fellow value investor   Mario Gabelli says that he looks for : people who are “poor, hungry, and driven. ”   Even legendary basketball coach  looks for  too. ’ ’   What I love about Warren Buffett is that he specifically looks   for a third key intangible  —   integrity. Without it,   intelligence and energy don’t matter (and can actually be   harmful). And I’m fairly certain that it’s Buffett  on integrity and   —   and not just on intelligence,   energy, and profits  —   that has helped him and Berkshire Hathaway   become so successful. ’