’  ’ ’   Lately, Mark Zuckerberg has been acting more like a   statesman than a tech CEO. ’ ”   The Facebook founder’s  is to tour the U. S. and meet people in   every state, which sounds a lot like a political campaign. ” ’   He recently  and that he sees   religion as ”very important.” ’ ’   In early 2016, he asked Facebook’’s board to  for up to two years, according to legal documents. The   documents, which are from a shareholder lawsuit against Facebook,   indicate that Zuckerberg was  even when one of   his board members called it ”particularly irresponsible.” ’ ”   Yet another indication of Zuckerberg’s interest in public   office is a leaked August 2015 email from Facebook COO   Sheryl Sandberg to former Hillary Clinton campaign   chairman John Podesta. ” ’   In the email, which was published by Wikileaks, Sandberg asks   Podesta to meet with Zuckerberg. She said that Zuckerberg had   been ”meeting with people to learn more about next steps for his   philanthropy and social action.” ’ ’   ”As you may know, he’s young and hungry to learn  —   always in   learning mode  —   and is early in his career when it comes to his   philanthropic efforts,” Sandberg wrote to Podesta. ’ ’   ”He’s begun to think about   he might want to shape   advocacy efforts to support his philanthropic priorities and is   particularly interested in meeting people who could help him   understand how to move the needle on the specific public policy   issues he cares most about,” she continued. ”He wants to   meet folks who can inform his understanding about effective   political operations to advance public policy goals on social   oriented objectives (like immigration, education or basic   scientific research).” ’ ’   Zuckerberg would end up announcing his philanthropic fund, the   Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, with his wife later that year. ’ ’  ’ ’   If Zuckerberg did decide to step into public office, he could   very well choose be a cabinet member of some kind rather than run   for president. His proposal to serve for up to two years without   losing control of Facebook is obviously not long enough for a     presidential term. ’ ”   But as  Zuckerberg could technically serve   in government for more than two years if he still owns at   least 30% of the capital shares in Facebook that he   had as of June 2016 and discusses it with the   company’s board of independent directors. ” ”   If he owns less than 30% of the capital shares he had   in June 2016 and wants to serve for more than two years, he has   to get approval from the majority of Facebook’s independent   directors, according to the company’s filing with the SEC. ” ”   Facebook did not immediately return a request for comment about   Zuckerberg’s potential political aspirations. ” ”   In his role as one of the most influential CEOs in tech,   Zuckerberg has already had various   interactions with governments. He’s publicly said that   one of the coolest parts of his job is meeting important figures   and politicians from around the world. He’s met with President   Obama several times over the past eight years, but was . ” ’   In  explaining his 2017 goal to meet people   from every state, Zuckerberg explained how he thinks about   the role of technology from a political perspective. ’ ’   ”Going into this challenge, it seems we are at a turning point in   history,” he said. ”For decades, technology and globalization   have made us more productive and connected. This has created many   benefits, but for a lot of people it has also made life more   challenging. This has contributed to a greater sense of division   than I have felt in my lifetime. We need to find a way to change   the game so it works for everyone.” ’