’’ ’’ ’’ ’ ’ ’Since 2014, the government has opened  according to Reuters, which cost $2 per hour to use.’ ’That’s not a lot of internet access for a country of 11 million people.’ ”The Cuban government blames the country’s poor internet access on the US trade embargo, which they say has obstructed the introduction of new network technology and prevented them from accumulating funds to buy equipment from other nations, . C” ’Critics say Cuba has poor internet by design, to prevent most Cubans from accessing outside culture or information.’ ’Head to the nearest ETSECA office  —   there’s usually one right next to the   hotspot  —   and purchase one of the Nauta   internet cards for $2.’ ’Like everything else in Cuba, be prepared to wait. I would recommend buying a few at a time. Whether the queue is long or short, the process is excruciatingly slow (minimum: 30 minutes to an hour).’ ’ ’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’A   intranet is available in those locations as well, at a considerably lower price of $0. 60 per hour, .’ ’The intranet is limited to “a national email system, a Cuban encyclopedia, a pool of educational materials and   journals, Cuban websites, and foreign websites that are supportive of the Cuban government,” the report said.’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’ ’ ”Just weeks ago, the government began a pilot program to bring internet access into the homes of 2, 000 Havana residents. But that’s a drop in a bucket compared with Cuba’s population of 11 million people.” ’’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’Henken said that it is likely Cuba will follow the China model and enact its own version of ”” if it dramatically increases internet access. ’ ’”Cuba wants to go from a model that basically doesn’t need censorship on the internet because there practically is no internet” to using internet to control the population, Henken .’ ”It’s not a difficult thing to imagine. A   cable from Venezuela to Cuba    Shanghai Bell several years ago to improve internet access. And Chinese telecom giant Huawei has been  in Havana, according to BBC.”