’    ’ ” Editor’s note: This story was initially published on December   5, 2016. It has been republished below after  on Thursday that Tucker   Carlson will be promoted to the network’s 9 p. m. time slot   to replace outgoing host Megyn Kelly. ” ’   *** ’ ”It was the 7 p. m. hour on Fox News and famed New   York Times columnist Nicholas Kristof found himself in the hot   seat, forced to defend a column he had authored, in part, about     Donald Trump’s supporters. ” ’   ”I guess what I’’m here for is empathy,” host Tucker Carlson told   Kristof, noting the Times journalist had an extensive background   traveling to some of the most troubled places on the globe. ’ ’   ”I’’ve never read a column by you that suggests the people in   those places  —   who support dictators oftentimes  —   are racists or   bad people,” Carlson said, as he placed a printed copy of the   column on the studio’’s glass desk. ”You would never write that   about a poor person in the third world. But you’’re implying that   about your fellow Americans.” ’ ”   Kristof rejected Carlson’s characterization of his work, but the   newly minted Fox News primetime host, who previously hosted shows   on CNN and MSNBC, calmly pressed forward. ” ’   ”You’’ve thought a lot about the suffering of people in other   countries. You’’ve thought a lot about it,” Carlson said. ”It   doesn’’t seem you’’ve thought that deeply about the suffering of   your fellow Americans.” ’ ’   For anyone familiar with Carlson, the sentiment he was expressing   on his show, ”Tucker Carlson Tonight,” was not new. His show,   which premiered in the week after the election, has already   become a standout in Fox News’’ nightly programming. ’ ’   Carlson, a conservative journalist who most recently founded The   Daily Caller, a   online publication, holds ardent   views about small government, excessive regulation, and a   multitude of other issues typically shared among Republicans. ’ ’   But the issue he perhaps is most passionate about these days cuts   across party lines: He describes it as a distaste for elitism,   particularly among political journalists who reside in the Acela   corridor. ’ ’   ”What bothers me is the lack of  . I don’’t know if I   have ever met a group less   than political reporters,”   Carlson told Business Insider in a recent interview. ”They   honestly don’’t believe that there are legitimate alternative   views of anything. And like most   and dumb people   they are very, very quick to dismiss anything they don’’t   understand as crazy.” ’ ”   Following Trump’s unforeseen election victory, the journalism   community  hoping to   understand how it had failed to see a Trump win on the horizon. ” ’   One of the immediate conclusions was that reporters had become   too encapsulated in some sort of bubble. They had failed to   detect, and thus understand, the sentiment of Americans residing   in the heartland. ’ ’   That was a conclusion with which Carlson wholeheartedly agreed. ’ ’   Referencing a widely circulated  in which he suggested   conservative voters were stuck in a bubble and only accepting   news from   sources, Carlson said the same was true of   the mainstream media. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”It’’s the mirror image of the world I live in,” Carlson said. ”In   Washington, no one believes anything unless it comes from The New   Yorker, New York Times editorial page, or The Washington Post.   There’’s not just one bubble.” ’ ”   Carlson also threw cold water on some of the other theories that   have been floated by political journalists and analysts aiming to   explain Trump’s victory. ” ’   ”All the explanations have one thing in common,” Carlson said.   ”They don’’t take voters seriously.” ’ ’   ”So whether you believe that the Russians somehow rigged the   system   …     or you believe that somehow voters were hypnotized by   demagoguery . Or if you think they were   hoodwinked by fake news,” he continued. ”All of these are ways of   saying that voters didn’’t know what they were doing, voters   weren’’t making a rational choice.” ’ ’   The suggestion voters were too uninformed to make a wise decision   while casting their ballots, Carlson posited, was exactly the   attitude that blindsided the media this cycle. ’ ’   ”What I would say is that clearly voters are mad at the   establishment and have contempt for the establishment. But the   establishment has greater contempt for voters,” he said. ”If you   think your average Trump voter in Ohio hates Washington, you   should see what Washington thinks about the Trump voter in Ohio.” ’ ’   Carlson said that ”the core irony” of the political system is   that ”the people who are running the democracy don’’t believe in   democracy.” ’ ’   ”That’’s why they are calling for a recount, that’’s why the   financial community called for another election after Brexit, and   it’’s why the Republican establishment tried to take the   nomination away from Trump at the convention,” he explained.   ”Because they are not interested in allowing voters to make these   choices.” ’ ’   ”And that’’s fine if it’’s an oligarchy, you can get away with   stuff like this. But if you tell people it’’s democracy, and then   you can’’t as if it isn’’t, it really gets people mad.” ’ ’   One thing that does worry Carlson about the growing distrust of   the media these days is that individuals on various sides of the   political spectrum are moving away from a common fact set in   which they form their opinions. ’ ’   Conservatives refuse to trust legacy outlets like CNN and the   Times, while liberals are skeptical about reporting from outlets   like Fox News. ’ ’   ”You need, in order to run a country as diverse as ours, a   prominently recognized news source. You do,” he explained. ”You   need  —   if there’’s a crisis. And I’’ve seen this in other   countries. I saw it in a bunch of countries.   …     Where there’’s a   crisis and nobody can agree on what the basic facts are.” ’ ’   ”That’’s a source of disunity and that creates chaos and   division,” Carlson said. ’ ’   The Fox News host continued: ”I hate the mainstream media, but   I’’m not against the idea of the mainstream media. I am for it,   actually. I think it would be nice if there were news   organizations that in the end, everybody agreed were on the   level.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Carlson said, however, that the   mainstream media   discredited itself this cycle, prompting a large chunk of the   country to turn to alternative outlets for their news. ’ ’   ”The reason people don’’t agree [the traditional media outlets]   are on a level is because they are not on a level,” Carlson said.   ”That’’s kind of the point.” ’ ’   ”Maybe the reason people don’’t trust The New York Times is   because maybe it’’s not trustworthy. Maybe that’’s the point?” he   rhetorically asked. ”So whoever is mad about Breitbart and Alex   Jones  —   well, we wouldn’’t have Breitbart and Alex Jones if the   gatekeepers had done their jobs. But they didn’’t.” ’ ”   Some news outlets, following introspection in the aftermath of   the election, have suggested they will make changes to better   represent the views of the broader American population. But   Carlson thinks it’s too late. These outlets, he said, will never   regain the trust of the readers they lost. ” ’   ”It’’s over,” he bluntly told Business Insider. ’ ”   Regular viewers of Carlson’s show know that one institution in   particular has earned his scorn: the   system.   It’s his way of pushing back against what he views as a system   dominated by elites. ” ’   Part of the reason he has taken a keen interest in the     system, he said, is because he has two children   currently enrolled in college. But he said he was ”also struck by   how very much modern academia resembles the Medieval Church.” ’ ’   ”It’’s an institution that everyone is required to revere, you   send in your tithes, all of us are saving money for college, we   give more to colleges than our churches, and you are not allowed   to ask hard questions, you are not allowed to question what   happens there,” he explained. ’ ’   In the month since his show premiered, Carlson has made a habit   of interviewing both students and administrators from various   colleges. In fact, his show has a reoccurring segment called   ”Campus Craziness.” ’ ’   In one lengthy segment, he pressed a Hampshire College student   over why he . In another, he grilled Michael Roth, the president of   Wesleyan University in Connecticut, over his plans to have his   school be a ”sanctuary campus” throughout Trump’’s presidency. ’ ’   Carlson said journalists ”rarely” seem to ask hard questions   about the people making decisions in the US     system. ’ ’   ”If there was a   company and its CEO made a million   dollars a year with subsidized housing, and tons of servants,   with a guaranteed   contract, and a massive payout at the   end, who was taking more than half his budget from the taxpayer  —     the rest of us would feel like we kind of have a right to know   what he’’s doing, wouldn’’t we?” he asked. ”I kind of think we   would!” ’ ”Carlson’s show marked the first change to Fox   News’ primetime lineup since founding CEO Roger Ailes departed   the network. ” ”   The addition of his program also came as Megyn Kelly, considered   by many observers to be the outlet’s most valuable talent,    like   Bill O’Reilly and Sean Hannity. ” ’   But Carlson said he has no part in it and insisted the world he   lives in is ”entirely drama free.” ’ ’   ”There’’s a little cloud of happiness around my head. If there’’s   drama going on, I am literally the last one to know,” he said.   ”Everyone in my world is nice. I am friends with everybody.   Everybody involved in this stuff, at every level, I like.” ’ ’  ’ ’   ”And I’’m not just saying this,” he added. ”You can ask  —   ask   anybody. I am not involved in any of that. And when I see people   in the hall it’’s always totally happy. I don’’t know any details,   you know, and I don’’t seek to.” ’ ’   Instead, the cable news veteran said he was impressed by the   ”confidence at Fox that shows in the way they treat people.” ’ ’   ”I’’ve been here seven years. Nobody has ever told me not to say   something, or to say something,” he said. ”I have never had any   kind of editorial mandate of any kind.” ’ ’   (Carlson later backtracked the comment to note that there was one   time the network forced him to do something: Get a haircut for   his new show. ”It was brute force,” he explained.) ’ ’   While his show has debuted during a turbulent time for Fox News,   and politics in general, it has proved to be a ratings hit thus   far. ’ ”   On the show’s inaugural night, 3. 7 million viewers tuned in,   making it Fox News’  in the time   slot. For the month of November, Carlson posted     increases from last year in the key   demo. ” ”   And he’s done so with a consistent message  —   one he delivers to   begin the show each night. ” ’   ”Good evening and welcome to ‘Tucker Carlson Tonight,’’” he says,   ”the show that is the sworn enemy of lying, pomposity, smugness,   and groupthink.” ’