’  ’ ’   Russia’’s   news agency Russia Today ”has actively   collaborated with” WikiLeaks, the organization that published   documents and emails stolen from Democrats by Russian hackers   during the presidential campaign, the US intelligence community    released Friday. ’ ’   The   report, which was released in its   declassified form to the public, concluded that Russian President   Vladimir Putin ”ordered” the   hacking in an   effort to undermine Americans’’ faith in the election and help   elect Donald Trump  —   and was aided by WikiLeaks and Russia Today. ’ ’   ”RT’s    visited WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange at   the Ecuadorian Embassy in London in August 2013, where they   discussed renewing his broadcast contract with RT, according to   Russian and Western media,” the report states. ’ ’   ”Russian media subsequently announced that RT had become ’’the   only Russian media company’’ to partner with WikiLeaks and had   received access to ’’new leaks of secret information. ’’ RT   routinely gives Assange sympathetic coverage and provides him a   platform to denounce the United States,” the report said. ’ ’   Russia Today also gave Assange his own show, ”The Julian Assange   Show”  —   also known as ””  —   in 2012. ’ ”   Over the summer, when WikiLeaks was releasing daily batches of   emails stolen from Hillary Clinton campaign chairman John   Podesta’s inbox, many journalists noted that Russia Today and   Sputnik  —   another   Russian news agency  —   frequently   shared the leaked documents on Twitter before WikiLeaks did. ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tEarlier today,  tweeted & pubbed a story on fresh  Podesta emails dump before WL posted them to the site & tweeted a link.  ’ ’   WikiLeaks denied that it had leaked the documents to any     Russian news agencies prior to releasing them on   the WikiLeaks website, noting that ”t ’ ’   In any case, the intelligence community concluded that Russia   Today, as part of Russia’’s ”  propaganda machine,”   contributed to Putin’’s attempt to influence the outcome of the   presidential election ”by serving as a platform for Kremlin   messaging to Russian and international audiences.” ’ ’   The declassified report devoted seven pages to Russia   Today’’s ”rapid expansion” in the US and around the world,   claiming that the news agency ”has positioned itself as a   domestic US channel and has deliberately sought to obscure any   legal ties to the Russian Government.” ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tReport devotes 7 pages to RT   ’ ’   The Kremlin spends approximately $190 million a year on   distributing RT programming, the report noted, focusing on hotels   and satellite, terrestrial, and cable broadcasting. ’ ’   Officials said that RT’’s attempts to undermine faith in the US   election process and democratic institutions began in the     to the 2012 presidential election, when it ”ran numerous   reports on alleged US election fraud and voting machine   vulnerabilities, contending that US election results cannot be   trusted and do not reflect the popular will.” ’ ’   RT’’s ”  messaging,” the report continued, was likely   informed by RT editor in chief Margarita Simonyan, who has   close ties to the Kremlin. Simonyan has characterized RT’’s   journalism as a form of ”information warfare” against     interests. ’ ’   When ”the Ministry of Defense was at war with Georgia,” RT was   ”waging an information war against the entire Western world,”   Simonyan said in July, referring to the 2008     war. ’ ’   ”The word ’’propaganda’’ has a very negative connotation, but   indeed, there is not a single international foreign TV channel   that is doing something other than promotion of the values of the   country that it is broadcasting from,” Simonyan said. ”When   Russia is at war, we are, of course, on Russia’’s side.” ’