’  ’ ’   A US intelligence    on Russian hacking concluded that Russian military   intelligence relayed material to WikiLeaks and other websites   that published emails hacked from Democratic Party organizations. ’ ’   WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange insisted earlier this week that   the hacked material his site published was not provided by the   Russian government or a state party. ’ ”   WikiLeaks published hacked emails from the Democratic National   Committee and Hillary Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta. The   emails showed DNC officials seeming to favor Clinton over   her Democratic primary challenger, Sen. Bernie Sanders. They   also contained excerpts of Clinton’s controversial speeches   to the financial firm Goldman Sachs and showed campaign officials   speaking candidly about the election. ” ’   ”We assess with high confidence that Russian military   intelligence (General Staff Main Intelligence Directorate or GRU)   used the Guccifer 2. 0 persona and DCLeaks. com to release US   victim data obtained in cyber operations publicly and in   exclusives to media outlets and relayed material to WikiLeaks,”   the Office of the Director of National Intelligence report   stated. ’ ’   The report said the GRU ”relayed material it acquired from the   DNC and senior Democratic officials to WikiLeaks.” The Kremlin is   thought to have chosen WikiLeaks ”because of its     reputation for authenticity,” according to the report. ’ ’’ ”   Assange has often stated that all of the leaked material   WikiLeaks published is authentic, and the report concluded that   emails WikiLeaks posted from Podesta and the DNC don’t   appear to contain any forgeries. ” ’   The report also noted that the Russian   news   agency RT ”has actively collaborated with WikiLeaks.” ’ ’   ”RT’’s    visited WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange at   the Ecuadorian Embassy in London in August 2013, where they   discussed renewing his broadcast contract with RT, according to   Russian and Western media,” the report noted. ’ ’   ”Russian media subsequently announced that RT had become ’’the   only Russian media company’’ to partner with WikiLeaks and had   received access to ’’new leaks of secret information. ’’ RT   routinely gives Assange sympathetic coverage and provides him a   platform to denounce the United States.” ’ ’   As for how Assange could insist the hacked material WikiLeaks   published wasn’’t provided by the Russian government, a US   official familiar with the full version of the US intelligence   report  that the material followed a ”circuitous route”   from the GRU to WikiLeaks in order to obscure the origins of the   material. ’ ”   A declassified version of the US intelligence report was   released Friday.  that Russian President Vladimir Putin   ordered a campaign to influence the US presidential election with   the aim of hurting Clinton’s chance of winning. ” ”     Donald Trump has refused to pin blame on   Russia for the Democratic Party hacks, repeatedly casting doubt   on the intelligence community’s assessments. ” ’   The Obama administration, however, has  the hacks and increased sanctions on Russia in   response. ’ ’   Assange, in turn, accused the Obama administration of trying   to undermine the incoming Trump administration. ’ ’   ”They’’re trying to delegitimize the Trump administration as it   goes into the White House,” Assange told Fox News earlier this   week. ”They are trying to say that   Trump is not a   legitimate president.” ’ ’   The US intelligence report did not assess ”the impact that   Russian activities had on the outcome of the 2016 election.” ’