’    ’ ’    ’ ’ Ray Dalio is the founder of Bridgewater, the world’’s largest   hedge fund. A week ago, his team reached out to me to   propose an interview. Mr. Dalio, they said, wanted to discuss the   problem of ”fake news” and ”distorted news,” which he believes is   exemplified  about his company (and which he wrote   about in a  this week). We agreed on some ground   rules: We had control over what we published, but Dalio wanted to   be sure we shared his views with our readers, not our view of his   views. Thus, I suggested a Q&A. ’ ’ I spoke with Dalio by phone for nearly two and a half hours.   To me, the conversation was itself a case study of the   Bridgewater discussion style, which includes lively debate and   open disagreement. ’ ’ Dalio has kept a low profile for most of his career at the   helm of Bridgewater, which he founded in the kitchen of his   apartment in Queens 40 years ago. He explained that until   recently he wanted to be ”radically transparent within   Bridgewater and radically opaque to those outside it, but as   the media are now trying to pry open Bridgewater,” he wants to   clarify what’’s going on. He also believes that the systems and   culture he has developed at Bridgewater, once fully understood,   would be useful well beyond the firm.   ’ ’ Highlights of the interview include: ’ ’ The transcript below is edited for length and clarity. ’ ’Henry Blodget: Ray, you recently said the Wall   Street Journal intentionally distorted the truth about   Bridgewater. What do you think the Wall Street Journal   intentionally distorted? ’ ”Ray Dalio: I think they wanted to create a   picture of a weird, oppressive place in which weird things are   going on, rather than a place in which there’s a lot of hard work   and high standards and an unusual culture that works very   effectively. The media has the power to create an entrenched   perception of reality that’s incorrect. Many times people will be   quiet about that. I wanted to clarify what Bridgewater is like. ” ’Blodget: I want to be sure I understand the   distortions you’’re referring to.  You   yourself have described this culture as ”kooky” and ”unusual.”   You have described it as the intellectual and office equivalent   of Navy SEALs  —   where lots of people can’’t handle it and drop out   and only a small tough team of already scrutinized and screened   people can handle it and those who can handle it think it’’s   amazing. ’ ’  ’ ”Dalio: You’re painting something that is in the   right direction but an exaggeration. Twenty percent of our people   in the first year don’t like our culture and leave. Another 10%   don’t work out. So in the first two years, 30% of the population   goes, and then 70% stays. From that point forward, we have hardly   any loss. Let me explain what our culture is based on. I think   the greatest tragedy of mankind is that people have ideas and   opinions in their heads but don’t have a process for properly   examining these ideas to find out what’s true. That creates a   world of distortions. That’s relevant to what we do, and I think   it’s relevant to all decision making. So when I say I believe in   radical truth and radical transparency, all I mean is we take   things that ordinarily people would hide, and we put them on the   table, particularly mistakes, problems, and weaknesses. We put   those on the table, and we look at them together. We don’t hide   them. That’s what I mean by radical truth. I mean accepting   reality. So Bridgewater’s culture is not anywhere near as extreme   as you’re describing. ” ”Blodget: You’ve talked about how all meetings at   Bridgewater are recorded, . You’ve been frustrated that this is often   portrayed as oppressive controlling Big Brother behavior. Can you   give us some examples of people who have been helped and improved   by the culture? People who, as you have said, would not want to   work anywhere else? ” ’Dalio: I can read you an   I got yesterday   from one our employees. I get them all the time. Do you want me   to read that? ’ ’Blodget: You bet. ’ ’  ’ ’Dalio: ”Ray, I wanted to thank you personally so   much for your generous support. I’’m always so touched that you   continue to think of me and so many other people at this time of   year. I’’m always at a loss of what to give back to you as you’’ve   given so much. I want you to know how much Bridgewater, your   principles, and our way of being have meant to me and have helped   me, especially through this past year. I’’ve had one of the   toughest years of my life personally, and I can’’t tell you how   grateful I am to have the instilling and learning of values from   this company as well as amazing people who have been there to   help and to support me. Everyone will have tough times. I know   that, and your principles have helped to guide and helped me make   sense of things. I know I can handle anything that life throws at   me, and I’’m a stronger person for having worked here for so many   years. I can’’t tell you how grateful I am for that. The   principles that I rehearsed in my head often, over the past year:   Have trust in truth, and you have nothing to fear from truth as   well as everyone gets what they deserve out of life. I know it   was the combination of the principles I have lived with now and   are just part of me that have truly rounded things out for me   through the rough waters. I truly mean what I say and have said   to my parents often over the past six months. Thank God for   Bridgewater and you, Ray. While I’’m sure you do not realize the   extent of my gratitude to you, please know that I’’m eternally   grateful for you, all of your teachings and for this amazing   company that I have been honored to be part of in the past 12   years, and I hope will be my home for the rest of my career. I   will also do everything I can to make it and keep it great. I   love you, Ray. I hope you have a wonderful Christmas.” ’ ’   I get a lot of those. ’ ”Blodget: That’s a great letter. And I can say,   as a leader of a company, it’s wonderful to get notes like that. ” ’Dalio: We are successful because we have those   kinds of relationships with each other that go way beyond the   job. I have a saying that the whole purpose of what we do is   meaningful work and meaningful relationships, and they support   each other. That’’s why I was frustrated by the Wall Street   Journal’’s characterization of Bridgewater and the process they   used. I described these things to them, and said I was happy to   have them speak to people like [the employee who wrote the   letter] and see our employee satisfaction surveys. But there was   no hearing it, right? Instead, they characterized our     process as something weird like ”turning Ray’’s   brain into a computer.” [Editor’’s note: These words were   those of a Bridgewater employee quoted in the WSJ article, not   the characterization made by the reporter.] They also made   it seem like everyone’’s crying in the bathroom all the time. I’’m   sure somebody has cried in the bathroom. But it’’s not like people   run around all day crying in bathrooms. I mean, listen to [the   employee. ]. You can watch so many other people here who hug each   other and, you know what, Henry, are in love with each other in a   sense and in love with the mission, and that’’s very powerful. ’ ’Blodget: Let me read you some of the facts the   Wall Street Journal reported that I think are creating the   impression of ”weirdness”  —   the impression that you see as   distorted. Now, if we were sitting together on a set, Ray, I   would smile and wink at you before I read these things, because a   lot of them do sound pretty wacky. First, the Wall Street Journal   says Bridgewater is developing a systematic management software   system that is sometimes called ”The Book of the Future,” ”The   One Thing,” or ”Principles OS, or just PriOS.” This system is   described as   directions for how staff should spend   their days and make decisions. Bridgewater employees rate each   other all the time on various attributes, using apps. Bridgewater   employees each have a ”baseball card” that includes their ratings   on different criteria, and anyone can access these cards. Every   employee takes written tests that measure various attributes, and   every employee gets ranked in a ”stratum.” You, according the   Wall Street Journal, are in the highest stratum. You are also   considered, based on all of these tests, the most believable and   open employee at the company.  and Bridgewater is now   developing apps that direct employees to the appropriate section   of these Principles that will have the answer to their questions.   In the amazing employee letter you just read, the employee   referred to your ”teachings,” and the writer said, ”I love you,   Ray.” Now, you have to admit, all this sounds a little wacky,   right, Ray? I mean, can you see where people from the outside   would look in and say, ”Huh. That is kind of strange and out   there”? ’ ’  ’ ’Dalio: Okay.  Well, first of all, I’’d like   to be clear that a number of people find me intolerable, and they   don’’t hesitate to say so  —   which they and I cherish. We wouldn’’t   be successful if we didn’’t have independent thinkers who can   argue and then resolve their arguments. And, yes, I can see that   our culture appears odd. Yes, we collect a lot of information.   Yes, there are personality tests, there’’s performance reviews.   There are opinions. There’’s a lot of information that is gathered   about people that they participate in. Then we go beyond that. We   collectively say, okay, how do we know who is good at what, based   on objectively information. ”Stratum,” for example, is a measure   of how well you can view yourself and your ideas objectively. In   other words, we as group say, ”Okay, now we’’re looking at the   data on people the way we would look at the data on anything   else.” And, ”Okay, given all of those different perspectives, how   should we make decisions?” ’ ”Blodget: Are there things outside of trying to   get to the truth about a particular investment or trade that   you’re devoting this process to at Bridgewater? ” ’Dalio: Everything. ’ ’Blodget: Is there always a majority after the   discussion? Is it just a simple vote? ’ ’Dalio: No. We have a process of what we call   ”believability weighting” votes. I won’’t go through it at length,   but each person assesses each other person’’s credibility on   different dimensions, because people are strong and weak in   different things. Some people have subject matter expertise in   one thing. Some people tend to be creative but not reliable, and   others are reliable but not creative. Everybody has different   dimensions. What we try to do is to keep that in mind, and we’’re   very clear about it. It’’s very upfront. It’’s very data based as   to why people have different strengths and weaknesses and what   their rankings are. It’’s like a democracy of determining what   people’’s believability is in different dimensions. And then, when   we take a vote, you get two numbers. You get the average number,   equal weighted, and you get   votes. So you   look at those two, and usually they’’re in alignment. If they’’re   not in alignment, we do another round of discussion and voting,   and then we go with   vote, generally   speaking. It’’s a little bit more complicated to explain how   exactly it works. ’ ”Blodget: It must be really complicated because   that’s pretty complicated. ” ’  ’ ”Dalio: Here’s what I’m saying. Here’s the   overarching issue. We have an idea meritocracy, and it has just   worked unbelievably well. It is a real idea meritocracy in which   there’s this radical truth and radical transparency, and it’s not   understood. When you’re faced with a choice, you have one of   three choices that you can have. You can have those with power   decide. You can have one man, one vote. Or you can have      . I’m scared of one man,   one vote because it suggests that everybody has an equal ability   at making decisions, and I think that’s dangerous. I’m also   scared of people with power making the decision. How do you know   that that’s meritocratic? How do you   that? I would   like it to be that everybody knows that person’s knowledge on the   subject, and we can draw upon those differences and actually have   the more knowledgeable people have more weight in the decision   making. That’s my motivation. That’s my dilemma, and that’s what   I work to solve. It’s not perfect. I’m not saying it’s perfect.   But now you understand my thinking. That’s where it’s coming   from. ” ’Blodget: Do you ever have situations where you   go through all that, and the vote comes out 51%   49% or   something awfully close? ’ ”Dalio: Yes. It constitutes a small percentage of   the outcomes, but it happens. Then what we do is we try to get   past it by discussing it and voting again. And then if we’re   still stuck with it, we’ll just go with it. I really believe in   people here. That process is what keeps the independent thinkers   here. I must operate by that system. I think the President of the   United States must operate by rules. I think our judicial system   must operate by the rules. You have to operate by the rules of   the system, and if you don’t, if you pull rank, then you lose all   your credibility. I have never overruled a decision. ” ”Blodget: So, to be clear, what frustrates you   about the Wall Street Journal article is mainly that they don’t   see Bridgewater’s culture the way you see it? ” ’  ’ ”Dalio: What I’m saying about the Wall Street   Journal is I don’t think they were trying to find out what’s   true. Some people seek to understand, and some people seek to   portray what they want to portray. I don’t know whether you’re   trying to understand or whether you have a picture that you want   to portray. I came into this discussion with the general   assumption that you were trying to do was to understand. ” ”Blodget: That’s what I’m trying to do. So let me   stipulate for the record: Bridgewater’s system obviously works   for Bridgewater  —   and wow does it work for Bridgewater. You have   1, 500 folks who can presumably work anywhere, and 95% of them say   this system is helping them develop, and they like it. ” ”Dalio: I’m saying something more. I’m saying our   system would work for most of the world. ” ”Blodget: That’s another question I’m going to   ask you. But first, I just want to have us agree that it is true   to say that some people hear the facts and the reality of   Bridgewater and regard it as, using your words, kooky, unusual   and great  …     ” ’Dalio: I may have used the word, ”kooky.” I will   retract the word ”kooky.” What I meant by that is unusual. It’’s   unusual, and it has produced unusually successful results  —     including people not wanting to work anywhere else because they   love that we have an idea meritocracy. ’ ’Blodget: My question is, Ray, isn’’t the rich   media ecosystem we have in which so many different ideas and   opinions and views about reality are shared  —   Isn’’t that the   ”idea meritocracy” you’’re trying to build at Bridgewater? And   isn’’t that fundamentally a good thing? ’ ’Dalio: Let me reply to your question with a   question. Do you really believe that most of the media is trying   to find out what is true, or do you believe that they are   primarily trying to find facts to support their existing views? ’ ’Blodget: I believe the some journalists and   media organizations are trying to find the truth. I also believe   that each journalist and media organization brings a particular   perspective to their work, just as each Bridgewater employee   brings his or her own ideas and beliefs. But I believe the media   ecosystem as a whole  —   with all of the diverse outlets and   perspectives  —   combined with this amazing thing called the   internet in which anybody can publish their own view  —   is a great   tool for helping us get to the truth overall. ’ ”Dalio: Wow. We have a different perspective. And   now I’m fearful about having this interview with you. Your tone   suggests you’re you’re coming with a preconception. You’re not   trying to pull out and put down on paper my perspective. You’re     me in a particular way that seems like what you   want to do is characterize rather than seeking to understand and   convey. ” ’  ’ ’Blodget: I actually, respectfully, in the spirit   of  —   what do you call it at Bridgewater? ”Thoughtful   disagreement”?  —   disagree. ’ ’Dalio: Well, I hope so because I think if you   look at the statistics and you deal with fake media  —   and fake   media and distorted media is a continuum  —   the vast majority of   the population says, ”I don’’t know what to believe.” There are no   checks and balances in quality control. I treasure the fact   there’’s media freedom, but with that goes responsibility. I think   that there should be a   organization and that they   should start to think about standards. Because I think a lot of   people say, ”I don’’t know how to read what is true versus   somebody else’’s interpretation.” ’ ’Blodget: If you think the current media system   is broken, what is the perfect system? ’ ”Dalio: I don’t think there is such a thing as   the perfect system. I do think people need to recognize that a   lot of journalists want to write a story a certain way because   the story will be better or the portrayal will be better, or at   least recognize that whenever you’re looking at something, you’re   seeing it through somebody’s eyes who may actually not be the   person who is the most insightful. Like the saying goes, don’t   believe everything you read. Second, the motivations are not as   pure or the fact checking as not as pure as some people might   believe. I think that that’s a threat because people don’t know   what’s true. You have to put yourself in my shoes as a person who   believes in radical truth and in being radically transparent, not   in seeing things through somebody else’s eyes. With the media, we   don’t know what’s true, and we don’t have radical transparency   because we’re seeing everything through somebody else’s eyes.   There’s no other industry that has as much power and as much   freedom and as little quality control. I can’t imagine how anyone   could not think that’s a problem. ” ’Blodget: Isn’’t the check and balance in media   the existence of a free media? In which other outlets can say   ”Hey, that thing that they wrote was complete crap. Here’’s the   truth”? ’ ’Dalio: Quote me on this. That sounds like   saying, ”Isn’’t the checks and balances on the financial system a   free financial system?” No, I don’’t think individual media   outlets will regulate. There are such things as     organizations that will look at the members of the industry and   their behavior and establish standards of behavior. ’ ’Blodget: So this would be a     organization? Or a government regulator? And what would the   regulator do, exactly? For example, we just had a controversial,   contentious election. Different media outlets had very different   views and portrayals of it. What would the regulator do in this   situation? ’ ’  ’ ”Dalio: First of all, the question is, does the   industry have a problem or not? Consumers believe there is a   problem, and it’s a pervasive problem and it’s probably coming to   a head. We don’t know what truth is anymore. You or other media   people can say there’s no problem, but you’re losing your   credibility. There’s distortion, and it’s hurting our society.   And as a result of that, there will be forces that, one way or   another, are going to naturally bring that into equilibrium.   Pendulums swing from one extreme to another extreme. As a result   I would think that a   organization would be   probably the best path. I wouldn’t want a government regulator   because it would threaten what I treasure as the free media. Who   would decide on what’s quality? I think that good media people   could do what other   organizations do  —   say, okay,   we’re going to have standards. The American Motion Picture   Association represented the industry in creating rating for   movies. I think the industry can probably   without   regulation, but I don’t believe an individual outlet can regulate   itself. ” ’Blodget: I would suggest that the media spends a   lot of time effectively regulating itself because media   organizations criticize other media organizations constantly and   talk about how everybody else is getting it wrong. ’ ”Dalio: No, I’m not talking about that. ” ’Blodget: But  …     ’ ”Dalio: I’m not talking about that. You want to   understand me, right? ” ’Blodget: Absolutely. ’ ’Dalio: I think the media argues all the time   with itself. That’’s not what I’’m talking about. I’’m talking about   something in which there’’s a standard of behaving. There’’s no   regulatory body. There’’s no judge. There’’s no means of assessing   whether the truth was handled in a quality way. We’’re stuck with,   ”The Wall Street Journal said this.” ”I said this.” How do we   know what’’s true? We’’re just left with two people screaming at   each other. ’ ”Blodget: My perspective is there is a     system in which everyone can share their view,   which is exactly what we’re doing right now. ” ’Dalio: I thought this was an interview in which   you wanted to convey what I think. Is it an interview in which   you want to convey what I think? Or is it an interview in which   you want to convey what you think? ’ ”Blodget: It’s an interview that I see as part of   an overall process to understand more deeply a very interesting   situation at Bridgewater and also something that you’ve   identified as a major issue in society, which is distrust in the   news media and distortion. ” ”Dalio: Okay, so let me then be clearer in terms   of your last question. Now, what you’ve asked, I think, is the   question of, is it a   system? The answer is I   don’t believe it’s an effective   system because I   think it is in the nature of individuals and individual entities   not to  . ” ’  ’ ’Blodget: Is what we have done today, is this   what happens at Bridgewater when you are trying to get to the   truth when people have different perspectives on things, and they   challenge each other and ask questions of each other? Is this the   process? ’ ’Dalio: It’’s partially the process. The way it   works is that it would be a group of people who are having this   conversation. I thought that this was mostly an interview to get   out my perspective, but in any case, let’’s suppose that we have   two different perspectives and instead of this being an interview   that this is a disagreement. Then what we would do is have a   voting process. Then you would be asked to judge whether the   parties were   as well as assertive. In other words,   what’’s expected of everybody is that they’’re trying to find out   what’’s true. It’’s even more valuable and more admired to change   your opinion than to be right. But anyway, at the end of it,   there needs to be a resolution of a disagreement. That resolution   happens in a voting way. In order to get past disagreements, you   just can’’t have one person with power decide. In other words, so   just because I’’m a boss, it would be terrible if I then said,   ”Okay, we’’re gonna go do this.” That’’s why, after that thoughtful   disagreement, there has to be a process of an idea meritocracy.   That means okay, now you have to vote, not that the decision   resides with power. And then you vote and move beyond it. ’ ”Blodget: Let’s say that we have a group of   journalists who are interested in the truth. Let’s say that they   try to write the truth in a fair way, and our President Elect,   Donald Trump, doesn’t like it or believe it. Have they done their   job? ” ”Dalio: Henry, I think the basic problem is that   everybody thinks they know what the truth is, and sometimes   they’re even distorting the truth to make their arguments. I’m   sure Donald Trump will think that he has the truth, and some   journalist is arguing that he has truth, and somebody else is   arguing that they have the truth. And in fact it’s even worse   than that because they’re so hell bent on their arguments that   they will distort the truth consciously. They’ll manipulate the   facts to support their arguments because they’re so hung up in   the fight. That’s where the problem is, so we argue all the time.   We don’t have ways of resolving the arguments in idea   meritocratic way. ” ”Blodget: Given that we’re having a philosophical   discussion about the media, one of the problems the media   struggles with is that we have to work within the attention spans   and schedules of the people who are consuming media. And although   I could talk about these topics all day, I think most people will   have only a few minutes that they can devote to figuring out   which portrayal of Bridgewater’s culture is true. ” ”Dalio: Totally. We suffer from the same problem.   Therefore, I empathize. And that is what actually produced the   tools we are developing at Bridgewater  —   the technologies that   people can get at particular points so that the technology can   help them sort through decisions. I’m trying to find a way so   that anybody in the process can literally push a button and   get an answer or see the relevant part of a tape. Forget about   what the technology is. Just understand the motivation behind it.   If you have the power to see things through somebody else’s eyes,   it’s like going from black and white to color or two dimensions   to three dimensions. It’s shocking, and we have systems that do   that. This is what’s cool, and that’s what I’m talking about. ”