’  ’ ’   A New York City Police Department captain drew backlash Friday   for saying a spike in reported rapes was ”not a trend that we’’re   too worried about” because many of the perpetrators were   acquainted with the victims, and not strangers. ’ ’   The 94th Precinct, in the Greenpoint neighborhood in Brooklyn,   has seen a 62. 5% increase in reported rapes over the last   year, with 10 out of  in 2016 remaining unsolved, . ’ ”   Police attributed the lack of arrests to the fact that most rapes   were committed by victims’ acquaintances, adding that women   who reported the attacks often stopped cooperating with   investigators, according to DNAinfo. ” ’   ”Some of them were Tinder, some of them were hookup sites, some   of them were actually coworkers. It’’s not a trend that we’’re too   worried about because out of 13 (cases) only two were true   stranger rapes,” Captain Peter Rose told the website. ’ ’   ”Every rape should be investigated. I wish we could do more,”   Rose said. ’ ’   Rose reportedly made further comments at a community council   meeting Wednesday suggesting that rapes committed by strangers to   the victim were more worrying to police than acquaintance rapes. ’ ’   ”They’’re not total abomination rapes where strangers are being   dragged off the streets,” he said. ’ ’   ”If there’’s a true stranger rape, a random guy picks up a   stranger off the street, those are the troubling ones. That   person has, like, no moral standards,” he added. ’ ”   Rose’s comments received fierce backlash from the public and city   officials alike, after being circulated on social media on   Friday.   prevention advocates frequently decry the    that most sexual assaults are committed by strangers   and that such cases are more severe than assaults committed by   acquaintances. ” ’   NYPD Deputy Commissioner Stephen Davis said Rose’’s   comments ”did not properly explain the complexity of issues   involved with investigating rape complaints.” ’ ’   ”Every report of rape is thoroughly investigated by specially   trained detectives in the NYPD’’s Special Victims Unit. All   complaints of rape and other types of sexual crimes are taken   seriously whether they are committed by domestic partners,   acquaintances, or strangers,” Davis told Business Insider in a   statement. ’ ’   A spokesman for New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio said ”rape is   rape,” adding that the crime ”merits no moral qualification and   does not involve shades of criminality or degrees of danger.” ’ ’   And New York City’’s public advocate, Letitia James, said in a   statement provided to Business Insider that she is   ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Statistics show that most sexual violence perpetrators are, in   fact, known to the victim  —   just 28% of rapes are committed by   strangers, according to the . ’ ’   On Friday afternoon, the women’’s rights group UltraViolet called   upon the police department to immediately fire Rose ”for his   dangerous and unacceptable views.” ’ ’   ”Captain Peter Rose and the NYPD are engaging in     of the worst kind while judging which rapes they deem to be   legitimate and which they do not,”   Nita Chaudhary said   in a statement.  ’ ’   ”With comments like these, it is not surprising that survivors of   sexual assault don’t feel comfortable reporting and cooperating   with police authorities who dismiss the seriousness of violence   against women.” ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tIt sure sounds like the NYPD is focused on rape committed by strangers:   ’ ” ’t’t’t. strangers raping strangers are troubling but TRUSTED individuals that rape aren’t?  ” ’ ’t’t’tgood god this is a disgusting statement from the NYPD   ’ ’ ’t’t’tThis is, like, an official public statement not an embarrassing secret recording.  ’