’  ’ ”   CNN anchor Jake Tapper pressed   Donald Trump’s top   counselor over why his team hesitated to admit that they   benefited from internal emails from the Democratic National   Committee and Hillary Clinton’s campaign exposed by Russian   hacking and leaking. ” ”   In an interview on CNN on Sunday, Tapper asked Kellyanne Conway   why she dismissed the hacking’s impact on the 2016   election.  ” ’   ”What I’’m confused about is, how can you say that the hacking had   no impact on the election when Mr. Trump kept invoking WikiLeaks,   which was printing, publishing things that the Russians had   hacked?” Tapper asked. ’ ’   Conway did not directly admit that the Russians were the hackers,    but   instead blamed the Clinton campaign for its own shortcomings. ’ ’   Conway pointed out that Clinton was not seen as trustworthy by   many voters far before what the Trump counselor described as   the ”alleged attacks, alleged aspirations to interfere with out   democracy.”  ’ ’   ”It had an effect on his debate answer, it had an effect on the   Clinton campaign, because it was quite embarrassing to watch her   closest advisers question her judgment, question whether she   would ever find her voice, wondering aloud why she was testing 84   slogans to find out who she was and what she would run on,”   Conway said. ’ ’   Tapper acknowledged that while there were ”dozens of reasons why   Hillary Clinton is not the ” he was confused why   Conway continued to hedge over the hack’’s impact on the election. ’ ’   ”But what I guess I don’’t understand is why there is this   reluctance by   Trump and people around him to   acknowledge Russia did this,” Tapper said. ”You said it was an   alleged attack. I don’’t know why you’’re saying alleged.” ’ ’   ”No, no: Alleged to interfere with our democracy. In other words,   they didn’’t succeed,” Conway replied. ”Even if you read The New   York Times and Washington Post, people are admitting,     certainly are saying, Jake, that they did not   succeed.” ’ ’   When Tapper said that Conway was ”trying to make an argument   against Hillary Clinton using the work of Russian hackers,” she   interjected, invoking Clinton’’s use of a private email server   during her tenure as secretary of state. ’ ’   ”You know what, Jake? With all due respect to Hillary Clinton, we   didn’’t need WikiLeaks to convince the American people that they   didn’’t like her, didn’’t trust her, didn’’t find her to be honest.   She did that all on her own. She got this party started by   setting up an illegal server and opening it to hacks, for   intelligence and security information that’’s much more serious   than what a political party would have on its server,” Conway   said. ”So, she started it.” ’ ”   After months of vehemently denying Russia’s involvement in the   hacking,  following a classified   intelligence briefing on Friday that Russia likely hacked the   DNC. ” ’   In an interview on Fox on Sunday, Reince Priebus acknowledged   that Trump ”accepts the fact that this particular case was   entities in Russia,” but argued that the DNC should have   invested more in cyber security measures. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tTop Trump aide Kellyanne Conway deflects on Russia hacking questions    ’