’  ’ ”     Donald Trump’s incoming chief of staff accepted   on Sunday that Russia was behind last   year’s hacking and leaking of internal emails from top   officials at the Democratic National Committee and Hillary   Clinton’s campaign. ” ’   In an interview on ”Fox News Sunday” with Chris Wallace, Reince   Priebus acknowledged that Trump ”accepts the fact that this   particular case was entities in Russia,” but argued that the DNC   should be criticized for not taking cyber security more   seriously. ’ ’   ”I think he accepts the findings, Chris,” Priebus said of Trump.   ”But here’’s the thing that everyone needs to understand. When   this whole thing started, it started from the Russians 50 years   ago. In other words, this is something that’’s been going on in   our elections for many, many years. The Russians, the Chinese,   the Iranians  —   it happens, every election period.” ’ ’   He added: ”It started way back in 2015 before either nominee of   either party was chosen. And it started, and this is   declassified, as a spear phishing expedition. It just   so happens that the DNC had nearly no defenses on their   system. And when they were warned multiple times by the FBI, they   didn’’t respond.” ’ ”   Wallace repeatedly pushed Priebus to clarify his position, asking   whether Trump still dismissed reports from US   intelligence agencies that Russia attempted to tip the scales in   Trump’s favor. ” ’   Priebus said that Trump was ”not denying that entities in Russia   were behind this particular hacking campaign.” ’ ’   ”The primary actor is the foreign entity that’’s perpetrating the   crime to begin with, I’’m not denying it,” Priebus said. ’ ’   When asked to specify who the foreign actor was,   Priebus responded bluntly. ’ ’   ”Russia,” he said. ’ ’   For months, Trump and have been reluctant to say Russia   was the source of the hacks. ’ ’   Even following a   intelligence meeting on the subject   on Friday, Trump still hedged his response. ’ ’   ”While Russia, China, other countries, outside groups and people   are consistently trying to break through the cyber infrastructure   of our governmental institutions, businesses and organizations   including the Democrat National Committee, there was absolutely   no effect on the outcome of the election including the fact that   there was no tampering whatsoever with voting machines,” Trump   said in a statement. ’ ”   Not all of Trump’s inner circle were willing to directly   acknowledge that Russia was the primary actor behind the   cyber intrusions. ” ’   Asked about whether she believed Russia was behind the hacks,   Trump counselor Kellyanne Conway  said that ”Russia, China, and others,”   attempted to infiltrate networks of top American political   organizations. ’ ’ ’ ’     ’