’  ’ ’   Apple is seeking permission to conduct ”  manufacturing”   and to build   server gear in a Mesa, Arizona,   facility, according to a notice published Monday by the US   federal government. ’ ’ in the Federal Register on Monday   said Apple was looking for approval from the   Zones   Board to produce ”finished products” in a special zone that   exempts it from customs duty payments. ’ ’   ”Apple Inc has repurposed the site as a global data command   center that will conduct   manufacturing of finished data   center cabinets for other data centers,” according to a document   filed by Mesa on behalf of Apple in June and made public Monday. ’ ’   The filings come as Apple has come under fire by     Donald Trump for producing the iPhone and other popular products   overseas. ’ ”   The Arizona effort would mark a rare instance of a US tech   company manufacturing and assembling a finished product   domestically, where labor costs are higher. Apple’s effort   appears limited to equipment for its internal operations,   however, rather than for a   consumer product. ” ’   ”The nature of the product is not for end users but for other   global data centers what will be supported from the site,”   according to the July filing. ’ ’   In June, an Apple official wrote to the   Zones Board   asking for the approval, saying the company wanted to meet ”an   aggressive production   timeline of September, 2016.” ’ ”   The servers Apple uses in facilities such as its data centers in   Oregon and North Carolina are currently built and tested     according to a person with knowledge of Apple’s data operations.   Apple is now moving to consolidate that work in Mesa, where it   plans to build and configure its servers before shipping them to   other American data centers, the person said. ” ’   Apple owns a huge facility in Mesa that was formerly leased to a   supplier to build sapphire screen coverings. The facility first   applied for and received its special    status in   March 2014, but  before it finished production of   the screen coverings. ’ ’   More recently, the facility has been transformed into a ”global   command center” to store and serve iCloud backups and iTunes. ’ ’  ’ ’   The document says that the final product will be shipped   domestically and exported and that the manufacturing facility   will ”utilize personnel with extensive education and allow Apple   to offer best in class data support.” ’ ’   Monday’’s filing notes that production at the facility could   include imported materials and components including ”server   housing and enclosures” as well as ”routers and network   switches.” ’ ’     zones are essentially outside US customs territory,   which means companies can avoid duties when exporting or   importing merchandise. The US government supports the zones to   help create jobs  ”the encouragement of operations in the United States   which, for customs reasons, might otherwise have been carried on   abroad.” ’ ’   ”On its domestic sales, Apple would be able to choose the duty   rate during customs entry procedures that applies to finished   server assembly cabinets ( ) for the       noted below and in the existing scope of   authority,” the notice continues. ’ ’   International Trade Administration and Mesa officials did not   immediately return a request for comment. ’ ’   Trump has called several times for Apple to assemble its consumer   products in the US. ’ ’  ’ ’   Apple’’s Mesa facility has been called a ”” for Apple’’s cloud operations. Apple relies on   outside vendors for its cloud operations but has been building up   the capability to run its own servers at scale   which   would mean a significant amount of assembly and construction. ’ ”   The enormous facility, originally intended for manufacturing, is   bigger than most data centers. It would make sense as a location   for Apple to coordinate building hardware for its data centers.   Though the facility will be designed to support Apple’s American   data centers, the company has   facilities around the   world including in both . ” ’   Apple has been working on projects to design its own servers,    in March, mostly to ensure that the   hardware is secure. Apple reportedly has found that servers it   buys    may have had hardware and software added to   them to make them vulnerable to infiltration. ’ ’   Apple has said it is planning to start with 150 ” ”   positions at its Mesa ”command center,” and the Arizona   government has said Apple plans to have a   executive   working out of the facility. ’ ’   In October, Apple started hiring services technicians, managers,   engineers, and other operations professionals . ’