’  ’ ’     Donald Trump seemed to offer more detail about   his positions on Russia and China under his incoming   administration. ’ ’   Trump left open the possibility that the US could reconsider its   adherence to the ”One China” policy  published   Friday night. ’ ’   The policy was established decades ago, in part to support   diplomatic ties between China and the US. ’ ”   Trump told The Journal any new developments between the US and   China might hinge upon China’s trade and currency practices,   which the   has characterized as unfair to the US. ” ”   Trump rattled Washington and China shortly after he won the   election when he  from Taiwan’s President Tsai     the first direct communication between US and Taiwanese   leadership in more than 30 years ” ”   On Russia, Trump told The Journal he would consider keeping in   place new sanctions against Russia  —   which President Barack Obama    in response to Russia’s     cyberattacks against the Democratic Party. ” ’   Trump said sanctions against the Kremlin could remain intact ”for   at least a period time” under his presidency. The new sanctions   Obama outlined in December included the expulsion of 35 Russian   diplomats from the US, . ’ ’   Trump suggested continued sanctions against Russia may not make   sense under certain circumstances. ’ ’   ”If Russia is really helping us, why would anybody have sanctions   if somebody’s doing some really great things? ,” the     asked the newspaper. ’ ’   It was unclear what Trump meant by ”really great things.” The      during and after the election, and   applauded Russian President Vladimir Putin. The day after Obama   announced the new sanctions against Russia, Trump praised Putin   again, saying Putin’’s response to the sanctions  —     —   was a ”great move.” ’ ’   ”I always knew he was very smart,” Trump said of Putin. ’ ’  ’ ”   Trump’s platitudes came against a backdrop of Republican and   Democratic condemnation of Russia and Putin over the   cyberattacks. ” ’   House Speaker Paul Ryan and Senate Majority Leader Mitch   McConnell issued statements slamming Russia, Sen. John McCain of   Arizona    ”every American should be alarmed by Russia’’s attack on our   nation.” ’ ’   Sen, Lindsey Graham of South Carolina  and demanded ”crippling sanctions” against the   Kremlin. Obama called Russia’’s cyber activities against the US a   ”national emergency.” ’ ’   Putin has denied any wrongdoing. ’ ”   Trump  but attempted to publicly dress down the US   intelligence community as well, accusing the nation’s top spy   agencies of leaking info about the Russia hacking investigation   to journalists. ” ’   The bipartisan Senate Intelligence Committee announced Friday it   would investigate Russian intelligence operations in the US. ’ ’   Committee chairman Sen. Richard Burr, who is a Republican from   North Carolina, and vice chairman Sen. Mark Warner, a Democrat   from Virginia, said in a statement: ”We believe that it is   critical to have a full understanding of the scope of Russian   intelligence activities impacting the United States.” ’ ’   The committee plans to interview senior officials of both the   Trump and Obama administrations and may issue subpoenas, Reuters   reported. ’ ’  ’ ”   Trump’s   battle with the US intelligence community   continued this week, with the publication of a file that   contained unverified research on Trump, intended to draw links   between Trump and Russian operatives. ” ’   During a   news conference on Wednesday, Trump and his   advisers  they accused of spreading   details about the dossier. ’ ’   The incoming president revived his attacks Friday in a : ’ ’   ”It now turns out that the phony allegations against me were put   together by my political opponents and a failed spy afraid of   being sued,” Trump .   ”Totally made up facts by sleazebag political operatives, both   Democrats and Republicans  —   FAKE NEWS!” ’ ’   He continued: ”Russia says nothing exists. Probably released by   ’’Intelligence’’ even knowing there is no proof, and never will be.   My people will have a full report on hacking within 90 days!” ’ ’   Trump is set to be inaugurated as the 45th US president on   January 20. ’