’  ’ ”   The Cleveland Browns don’t have a   solution at   quarterback, which could turn their sights toward the New England   Patriots. ” ’   Former Patriots assistant  that he   thought the Browns and head coach Hue Jackson would go ”hard”   after Patriots backup quarterback Jimmy Garoppolo. ’ ’   ”I think Cleveland understands, Hue Jackson specifically   understands he needs a quarterback,” Lombardi said. ”I think   they’’ll be very aggressive. I think Jimmy Garoppolo’’s on top of   their list, and I think they’’ll go hard after him.” ’ ’   Lombardi, who is also a former Cleveland Browns general manager,   noted that the Browns owned several future draft picks, which   could be enticing in a trade package for the Patriots. ’ ’   Lombardi’’s rumor is interesting for several reasons. First, he   worked firsthand with the Patriots and knows the way coach Bill   Belichick thinks. After the Patriots made the shocking decision   to  this season, Lombardi was   one of the key voices in explaining that the Patriots were   unhappy with Collins’’ ”freelancing” on defense. It’’s unclear   whether Lombardi has insider information with the Browns, but   perhaps he’’s heard, through the Patriots, that the Browns are   intrigued by Garoppolo. ’ ’’ ”   Furthermore, if such a trade were to be offered, it would speak   to how the Patriots view both Garoppolo and Tom Brady’s future in   the NFL. Brady, at 39 years old, hasn’t missed a beat this   season. But how many more years can he continue to play like a   star quarterback? And after he’s regressed as a star, can he   simply play the role of game manager, à la Peyton Manning with   last year’s Super   Broncos? ” ’   Garoppolo, though he started just two games for the Patriots this   year before injuring his shoulder, looked like a legitimate   starting quarterback. Though the Patriots have long believed they   can plug players in and out of their system and be successful,   with so many teams struggling to find competent quarterbacks it   would be risky for the Patriots to trade away a      backup who looks as if he could one day take over for Brady. ’ ”   Garoppolo is under contract through 2017. If the Patriots don’t   trade him away before that, they will also have to pay him, as   surely a team will offer him a deal should he hit the     market. ” ”   This may seem like a great deal of   for a backup   quarterback, but the Patriots find themselves in the unique   position of managing a    star and a      potential star. Should a team like the Browns offer a bunch of   draft picks for Garoppolo, the Patriots’ decision could be a   fascinating one. ”