’Silicon Valley and its New York counterpart Silicon Alley have long reigned as the main coastal hubs for tech innovation. ’ ’Founders, venture capitalists, and tech employees flock to the Bay Area and New York City to launch and build startups, fund new ideas, and simply just live among their   brethren. ’ ”But there’s a new wave of companies eschewing the   life in favor of building their startups in their hometowns or in less   metros. Now, places like Utah, Seattle, Boston, and Colorado are becoming hubs for enterprise and consumer startups. ” ’’ ’Below are some of the most exciting startups from cities across the US. ’ ”Where it’s from:” ’What it is: Uptake uses analytics and predictive software to increase safety and enhance performance for companies  according to Forbes. Uptake was founded by Groupon cofounder Brad Keywell and has the backing of   giant Caterpillar.’ ’Founder: Brad Keywell ’ ’Funding: $51 million from Lightbank, Caterpillar, GreatPoint Ventures, and New Enterprise Associates.’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ”Where it’s from: Lincoln, Nebraska” ’What it is: Hudl is a key component in helping  nationwide win games. The startup allows coaches to record or upload video to its platform, annotate it with text, drawings, or voice, and share it with players on their mobile devices. ’ ’Founders: David Graff, Brian Kaiser, and John Wirtz ’ ’Funding: $77 million from Accel Partners, Nelnet, Nebraska Angels, and others.’ ”Where it’s from:” ”What it is: In 2014, Google released the free software   —   a tool to manage and maintain huge piles of containers that’s based on the tech it had developed for the same function. Kubernetes became a smash hit, with developers all over the world using it to get a little bit of that Google magic in their own computing infrastructures. Now two of its founding team members have launched a new startup,  to  and make it accessible to enterprises everywhere.” ’Founders: Joe Beda and Craig McLuckie’ ’Funding: $8. 5 million from Accel and Madrona Ventures.’ ”Where it’s from:” ”What it is: Pindrop Security is a fraud prevention and authentication tool that’s now being ” ’Founder: Vijay Balasubramaniyan’ ’Funding:  from CapitalG, GV, Felicis Ventures, Andreessen Horowitz, and others.’ ”Where it’s from:” ”What it is:  in January 2016, Starry will sell wireless equipment that will deliver supercharged internet speeds up to 1 gigabit per second. That’s fast enough to download a   movie in just a few seconds.” ’Starry makes a receiver called the Starry Point that hangs out your window like an antenna. You can hook up your own wireless receiver or use its own Starry Station, a $250 device that can tell you right from its screen how fast your internet is performing.’ ’Founder: ’ ’Funding: ’ ’ ’ ”Where it’s from:” ’What it is: If any startup can prove email is not dead, . This    startup, which makes email marketing and tracking tools, is profitable, expects to generate  and has signed up over 42, 000 paying customers, including some of the largest tech companies like Uber, Airbnb, and Spotify.’ ’Its CEO, Sameer Dholakia, calls SendGrid the ”” because of its simple API structure that makes it easy for any company to gain access to its email management platform. The Twilio analogy doesn’’t stop there  —   the company could go public in 2017, .’ ’Founders: Tim Jenkins, Jose Lopez, and Isaac Saldana’ ’Funding: $80. 36 million from Bain Capital Ventures, Bessemer Venture Partners, Founders Fund, and others. ’ ”Where it’s from:” ’What it is: What started out as a bootstrapped company founded by two IT guys who loved Macs has become . makes software that lets companies manage hundreds or thousands of Macs and iOS devices. The company boasts more than 9, 000 customers  —   including one of the   —   and has over 38, 000 members in its Nation, an online community for Apple IT professionals.’ ’Founders: Chip Pearson and ’ ’Funding: $30 million from Battery Ventures, Dell Ventures, GSV Capital, and Summit Partners. ’ ”Where it’s from:” ’What it is: ’ ’Founder: Robb Myer ’ ’Funding: $22 million from Yelp, Birchmere Ventures, Carnegie Mellon University, and others.’ ”Where it’s from:Chattanooga, Tennessee” ’What it is: Bellhops is an   startup for moving. The   company operates in more than 50 cities nationwide and is staffed by local college students. What sets Bellhops apart from other movers is its convenience: you can instantly get a quote online, reserve a moving crew for $1, and choose from three different types of moves. ’ ’Bellhops best serves   moves (up to two bedrooms) and  to make the whole thing more affordable. ’ ’Founders: Stephen Vlahos and Cameron Doody’ ’Funding: $22 million from Canaan Partners, Lowercase Capital, Alexis Ohanian, and others. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ”Where it’s from:” ’What it is: Invincea offers a  that can stop, among other things, ransomware, a hack attack that locks up a computer and demands a ransom.’ ”Its claim to fame is speed. It can identify and stop malware in less than 20 milliseconds, so it doesn’t slow a computer down as it works to protect it.” ’Founder: ’ ’Funding: $47. 4 million from Dell Ventures, Grotech Ventures, and others. ’ ”Where it’s from:” ’What it is: ’ ’Founders: Nick Huzar and Arean Van Veelen’ ’Funding: $222 million from GGV Capital, Andreessen Horowitz, GGV Capital, and others. ’ ’ ’ ”Where it’s from:” ’What it is: ’ ’Founders: Stuart McClure and ’ ’Funding: $177 million from Insight Venture Partners, Khosla Ventures, and others. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ”Where it’s from:” ’What it is: Simple wants to build a more . ’ ’Founders: ’ ’Funding: $15 million from Shasta Ventures, First Round Capital, Lerer Hippeau Ventures, and others.’ ”Where it’s from:” ”What it is:  helps companies locate and monitor all of their IT assets in the company’s own data center or in the cloud.” ”The rise of cloud computing has been very, very good for this company: ScienceLogic’s revenue under contract  —   its bookings  —   increased from about $30 million in 2014 to $100 million in 2015, CEO Dave Link told Business Insider . He expects big growth for 2016, too, although he wouldn’t share the target number.” ’Founder: Dave Link’ ’Funding: $84 million from Goldman Sachs Group, Intel Capital, and New Enterprise Associates. ’ ”Where it’s from:” ”What it is: Intercoms aren’t the sexiest home technology, but Nucleus wants to turn it into one of the most useful. Backed by Amazon, the startup built a   device that can be placed anywhere inside a home and responds to voice commands using Amazon’s Alexa technology.” ”It’s : the Nucleus also lets you audio and video chat between rooms or with other homes that have the system. Plus, you can tap into Alexa to do things like read headlines or listen to music. Nucleus  and sold out on Amazon on the first day.” ’Founder: ’ ’Funding: ’ ’ ’ ”Where it’s from:” ’What it is:  offers software for doing sophisticated surveys, market research, and analysis. It sprang into the Valley spotlight in 2012, when the tech world discovered that this family startup had bootstrapped its way to big growth and profitability.’ ’At one point, its young   CEO, Ryan Smith, had an acquisition offer of $500 million in one hand and seven term sheets from major VC firms in the other. He turned down the offer and decided to grow the company himself.’ ’Founders: Ryan Smith and Jared Smith’ ’Funding: $220 million from Sequoia Capital, Accel Partners, and Insight Venture Partners.’ ”Where it’s from:Boston, Massachusetts” ’What it is: ’ ’Founder: Paul English’ ’Funding: ’ ’ ’ ”Where it’s from:” ’What it is:  wants to be the : an online service that, with the click of a button, lets shippers order a truck and keep track of drivers. Convoy cuts out a  aspect of the trucking industry  —   brokers  —   by companies who need things shipped directly to the trucking companies. ’ ’Founders: Dan Lewis and Grant Goodale’ ’Funding: $18. 5 million from Greylock Partners, Bezos Expeditions, Marc Benioff, and others. ’ ’ ’