’  ’ ”     Donald Trump’s incoming chief of staff warned the   head of a top government watchdog organization on Sunday to be   careful of its public criticism of Trump. ” ’   Reince Priebus blasted Office of Government Ethics Director   Walter Shaub on ”This Week” after he dubbed Trump’’s attempts to   separate himself from his business interests this week ”.” ’ ’   ”The head of the government ethics ought to be careful, because   that person is becoming extremely political,” Priebus said. ’ ”   The incoming chief of staff incorrectly alleged that Shaub   supported Hillary Clinton in the 2016 presidential election  —     Republicans  Shaub of partisanship for refusing to criticize   Clinton’s public speaking fees. Priebus also praised Rep. Jason   Chaffetz for last week summoning Shaub to Capitol Hill to address   his public criticism of Trump’s actions. ” ’   ”I’’m not so sure what this person at Government Ethics, what sort   of standing he has anymore in giving these opinions. I think   Jason Chaffetz was correct to call for an investigation into the   Government Ethics Department in the government for the positions   that they’’ve taken in this campaign,” Priebus said. ’ ’’ ’   Trump attempted during a press conference last week to address   concerns about potential conflicts, announcing he would hand over   control of his businesses to his sons Eric and Donald   Trump Jr, and promised that his businesses  while   Trump is in office. ’ ”   But top ethics officials have  that the  ’s continued ownership of   businesses abroad is a potential violation of the US   constitution, as it could allow foreign entities to curry favor   with the   by pumping money or favors into his   businesses. ” ’   Shaub, whose organization is the primary independent government   watchdog that monitors the executive branch for   potential conflicts of interest, has drawn criticism from   Republicans over his outspoken skepticism that Trump has done   enough to disentangle himself from conflicts of interest. ’ ’   ”The plans that the president has announced doesn’’t meet the   standards that the best of his nominees are meeting, that every   president in the past four decades has met,” Shaub said last week   at the Brookings Institute in Washington, DC. ’ ’   He continued: ”Stepping back from running his positions is   meaningless from a conflicts of interest perspective. The   presidency is a full time job, and he would’’ve had to step back   anyway. The idea of setting up a trust to hold his operating   business adds nothing to the equation. This is not a blind trust,   it’’s not even close.” ’