’  ’ ’   We’re not even a week into 2017, and we already have another   reason to feel gloomy about our futures. ’ ’   The Wall Street Journal’s Timothy Martin tracked down several   early proponents of the 401( k) and asked them what they think of   their innovation, which has supplanted the traditional pension at   most companies. ’ ’   Answer: not much! ’ ’   Herbert Whitehouse, a former Johnson & Johnson human   resources executive who pushed the   savings vehicle in   the early 1980s, now says even he can’t retire until his     if he wishes to maintain his standard of living, because, Martin   writes, his 401( k) “took a hit” in 2008. He’s 65. And Ted Benna,   the man most frequently credited for the 401( k) as we know it,   says he doesn’t believe “any system currently in existence” can   help most Americans finance their financial needs in retirement.   Oof. ’ ’   What went wrong? The 401( k) began as a technical adjustment to   the tax code, one meant to mostly impact   executives   using   plans. People like Benna, a benefits   consultant, convinced the Reagan administration that the language   of the statute allowed for all employees to put aside a portion   of their salaries on a   basis. It was supposed to   supplement corporate pensions. Instead, in something almost no   one foresaw, the 401( k) replaced them. ’ ’   In 2017, we know that this historic accident isn’t working out   for many people. The Center for Retirement Research currently   estimates that about 52 percent of households are “at risk of not   having enough to maintain their living standards in retirement”   with “the outlook for retiring Baby Boomers and Generation Xers   far less sanguine than for current retirees. ” The Economic Policy   Institute says just under half of households headed by someone   between the ages of 32 and 61 have nothing saved for retirement. ’ ’   Some, like noted economist Richard Thaler, see a simple fix to   the 401( k) savings problem: ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tThe sad thing is we know how to fix this. Auto enroll. Auto escalate. Company match. Low fee default. Offer to employees   plans. Do it!  ’ ’   Unfortunately, it’s more complicated than that. Many companies   already do   their workers, but as of now employers   aren’t required to even offer a 401( k) and they’re certainly not   required to offer a match —  and if they do match, they can stop at   any point. Given the political climate in Washington, it’s hard   to believe any of that will change soon. ’ ’   How much needs to be set aside is also an issue. At the beginning   of the 401( k) revolution, many employees were told 3 percent of   their incomes would be perfectly adequate, as the Journal article   reminds us. More recently, some, like Cindy Hounsell at the   Women’s Institute for a Secure Retirement, have said as much as   15 percent. Since Americans currently put aside about 5. 5 percent   of their incomes, this presents something of a challenge. If   hectoring people to save more worked, surely it would have by   now. ’ ’   But it’s not like Americans are wasting it all on lattes. The New   York Post, which isn’t exactly known for   agitprop,   reported last summer on a survey from America’s Research Group   that claimed 20 percent of Americans can’t afford to buy anything   but basic necessities. Others are putting their money elsewhere.   The cost of child care has run double that of inflation since   2009. People who visit an   hospital emergency room run   a    chance of getting hit with a surprise medical bill.     gray divorce can destroy even a     retirement. Just under half of all households claim they couldn’t   come up with $400 in an emergency without borrowing it. You get   the idea. Saving for retirement isn’t simply a matter of   willpower, or some behavioral finance trick. Life has become too   expensive for many of us to save adequately. ’ ’   I wouldn’t expect much help in the retirement department from the   incoming Trump administration. The   campaigned on   a promise that he wouldn’t touch Social Security, but has since   surrounded himself by people committed to cutting the program.   (And his own track record in the 401( k) arena doesn’t exactly   shine. According to BrightScope, the average account balance at   Trump’s company is $26, 000. And this is an improvement. Workers   at Trump’s casinos who invested their 401( k)s in his   stock —  something at least 400 of them did —  experienced huge losses   when the companies went bankrupt.) ’ ’   And things could get a lot worse. Recent research from noted   economists Lawrence Katz of Harvard and Alan Krueger of Princeton   found that almost all the job growth in the United States between   2005 and 2015 came from temporary or freelance work, which   generally doesn’t offer stability, never mind access to 401( k)s   with generous employer matches. And people like Whitehouse who   think they can remain in the workforce well past the traditional   retirement age could be in for a shock. About half of Americans   retire before they plan due to circumstances outside of their   control. And that’s before we get into technological progress   doing away with many jobs —  like, say, Uber driver —  entirely. ’ ’   We need to think about what comes next for retirement savings.   Martin’s article mentions various initiatives: state attempts to   set up retirement savings options for people without access to   them at work; longtime 401( k) critic Teresa Ghilarducci’s idea   for a mandatory savings plan, in which the money would be   collected by the government and managed by financial pros; and   Marco Rubio’s now   plan to open the federal   defined contribution system to people who don’t work for the   government. But the Journal forgets about the most     suggestion of all: increasing Social Security payments. ’