’  ’ ”   Estalyn Walcoff arrived at the nondescript beige building in   Manhattan’s Gramercy Park neighborhood on a balmy August morning,   hours before the city would begin to swell with the frenetic   energy of summer tourists. She was about to face a similar type   of chaos  —   but only in her mind. ” ’   Pushing open the door to the Bluestone Center at the New York   University College of Dentistry, Walcoff entered what looked like   an average 1970s living room. A   brown couch hugged one   wall. On either side, a dark brown table held a homely lamp and   an assortment of colorful,   dishes. A crouching   golden Buddha statue, head perched thoughtfully on its knee,   adorned another table closer to the entrance. ’ ’   Months before, Walcoff had volunteered to participate in  the main psychoactive ingredient in magic   mushrooms, affects the brain in cancer patients with anxiety and   depression. The promising  published in December, have   prompted some researchers to liken the treatment to a ”.” ’ ’   The researchers believe they are on the cusp of nothing less than   a breakthrough: A single dose of psychedelic drugs appears to   alleviate the symptoms of some of the  illnesses of the brain.   Because depression is the  the timing seems ideal. ’ ’   In people like Walcoff, whose depression and anxiety strike after   a cancer diagnosis like a powerful blow, one dose of psilocybin   seemed to quiet her existential dread, to remind her of her   connectedness with the world around her, and, perhaps most   importantly, to reassure her of her place in it. ’ ”   And these results don’t seem to be limited to people with cancer   or other   illnesses. Participants in a handful of   other studies of psychedelics consistently ranked their trips as   one of their   —   not only because of the trip   itself, but because of the changes they appear to produce in   their lives in the months and years afterward. ” ’   Still, the existing research is limited  —   which is why,   scientists say, they so badly need permission from the government   to do more. ’ ’   1990 was a year of life and death for Clark Martin. His daughter   was born, and he was diagnosed with cancer. ’ ”   Over the next 20 years, as his daughter took her first steps,   experienced her first day of school, and eventually grew into a   smart, fiercely independent teenager, doctors waged a blitzkrieg   on Martin’s body. Six surgeries. Two experimental treatments.   Thousands of doctor visits. The cancer never went into remission,   but Martin and his doctors managed to keep it in check by staying   vigilant, always catching the disease just as it was on the brink   of spreading. ” ”   Still, the cancer took its toll. Martin was riddled with the   effects of anxiety and depression. He had become so focused on   saving his body from the cancer that he hadn’t made time for the   people and things in his life that really mattered. His   relationships were in shambles; he and his daughter barely spoke. ” ’   So in 2010, after reading an article in a magazine about a   medical trial that involved giving people with cancer and anxiety   the drug psilocybin, he contacted the people running the   experiment and asked to be enrolled. ’ ’   After weeks of lengthy questionnaires and interviews, he was   selected. On a chilly December morning, Martin walked into the   facility at Johns Hopkins, where he was greeted by two   researchers, including . The three of them sat and talked in   the room for half an hour, going over the details of the study   and what might happen. ’ ”   Martin received a pill and swallowed it with a glass of water.   For study purposes, he couldn’t know whether it was a placebo or   psilocybin, the drug the researchers aimed to study. ” ”   Next, he lay back on the couch, covered his eyes with the soft   shades he’d been given, and waited. ” ’  ’ ’   Within a few minutes, Martin began to feel a sense of intense   panic. ’ ’   ”It was quite ” he said. ”I tried to relax and   meditate, but that seemed to make it worse, and I just wanted   everything to snap back into place. There was no sense of time,   and I realized the drug was in me and there was no stopping it.” ’ ”   Martin, an avid sailor, told me it reminded him of a frightening   experience he’d had when after a wave knocked him off his boat,   he suddenly became disoriented and lost track of the boat, which   was floating behind him. ” ’   ”It was like falling off the boat in the open ocean, looking   back, and the boat is gone,” he said. ”And then the water   disappears. Then you disappear.” ’ ’   Martin was terrified and felt on the verge of a ”  panic   attack.” Thanks to the comfort and guidance of his doctors,   however, he was eventually able to calm down. Over the next few   hours, the terror vanished. It was replaced with a sense of   tranquility that Martin still has trouble putting into words. ’ ’   ”With the psilocybin, you get an appreciation  —   it’’s out of time    —   of   of simply being alive and a witness to life and   to everything and to the mystery itself,” said Martin. ’ ’   Lots of things happened to Martin during his   trip. For   a few hours, he remembers feeling at ease; he was simultaneously   comfortable, curious, and alert. He recalls a vision of being in   a sort of cathedral, where he asked God to speak to him. More   than anything else, though, he no longer felt alone. ’ ’   ”The whole ’’you’’ thing just kinda drops out into a more timeless,   more formless presence,” Martin said. ’ ’   As his trip slowly began to draw to a close and he began to   return to reality, Martin recalls a moment when the two worlds  —     the one in which he was hallucinating and the reality he could   call up from memory  —   seemed to merge. He turned his attention to   his relationships. He thought of his daughter, his friends, his   coworkers. ’ ’   ”In my relationships, I had always approached it from a ’’How do I   manage this? ’’ How do I present myself? ’’ ’’Am I a good listener? ’’   type of standpoint,” Martin said. ”But it dawned on me as I was   coming out of [the trip] that relationships are pretty much   spontaneous if you’’re just present and connecting.” ’ ’   That shift, which Martin said has deepened since he took the   psilocybin in 2010, has had enduring implications for his   relationships. ’ ’   ”Now if I’’m meeting people, the default is to be just present  —     not just physically, but mentally present to the conversation,”   he said. ”That switch has been profound.” ’ ’   While he felt himself undergo a shift during his trip on   psilocybin, Martin says the most enduring changes in his   personality and his approach to interacting with those around him   have unfolded in the months and years since he took the drug. For   him, the drug was merely a catalyst  —   a ”” he likes to   call it. By redirecting his perspective for a few hours, the   psilocybin unleashed a chain reaction in the way he sees and   approaches the world, he said. ’ ’   This squares with what researchers have found by looking at the   brain on psilocybin. ’ ”   Ask a healthy person who has tripped on psychedelics what it felt   like, and they’ll probably tell you they saw sounds. The     of a dropped box took on an aggressive, dark shape. ” ’   Or they might say they heard colors. A bright green light seemed   to emit a piercing,   screech. ’ ’   In actuality, this ” ”  —   synaesthesia, as it’’s known   scientifically  —   may be one example of the drug ”freeing” the   brain from its typical connection patterns. ’ ’   This fundamental change in how the brain sends and receives   information also might be the reason the drugs are so promising   as a treatment for people with mental illnesses like depression,   anxiety, or addiction. To understand why, it helps to take a look   at how a healthy brain works. ’ ’  ’ ’   Normally, information is exchanged in the brain using various   circuits, or what one researcher described to me as   ”informational highways.” On some highways, there’’s a steady   stream of traffic. On others, however, there are rarely more than   a few cars on the road. Psychedelics appear to  opening up dozens   of different routes and freeing up some space along the more   heavily used ones. ’ ’ who leads the psychedelic research arm of the   Center for Neuropsychopharmacology at Imperial College London,   captured these changes in one of the first neuroimaging studies   of the brain on a psychedelic trip. He presented his findings   last year in New York at a conference on the therapeutic   potential of psychedelics. With the psilocybin, ”there was a   definite sense of lubrication, of freedom, of the cogs being   loosened and firing in all sorts of unexpected directions,”     said. ’ ’   This might be just the   that a depressed brain needs. ’ ’   One key characteristic of depression is  in brain circuits in certain   regions of the brain  —   particularly those involved in   concentration, mood, conscious thought, and the sense of self.   This may be part of the reason that electroconvulsive therapy,   which involves placing electrodes on the temples and delivering a   small electrical current, can help some severely depressed people    —   it . ’ ’   ”In the depressed brain, in the addicted brain, in the obsessed   brain, it gets locked into a pattern of thinking or processing   that’’s driven by the frontal, the control center, and they cannot     themselves,”  the   director of the neuropsychopharmacology unit in the division of   brain sciences at Imperial College London, told me. ’ ’  ’ ’   Nutt is one of the pioneering researchers in the field of   studying how psychedelics might be used to treat mental illness.   He said that in depressed people, these overly trafficked   circuits  —   think West Los Angeles at rush hour  —   can lead to   persistent negative thoughts. Feelings of   can get   obsessive and overwhelming. So to free someone with depression   from those types of thoughts, traffic would need to be diverted   from some of these congested ruts and, even better, redirected to   emptier highways. ’ ”   That’s precisely what psychedelics . ” ’   ”Psychedelics disrupt that process so people can escape,” Nutt   said. ”At least for the duration of the trip, they can escape   about the ruminations about depression or alcohol or obsessions.   And then they do not necessarily go back.” ’ ’   ”Medically, what you’’re doing [with psychedelics is] you’’re   perturbing the system,” Paul Expert, who coauthored one of the   first studies to map the activity in the human brain on   psilocybin, told me over tea on a recent afternoon in London’’s   bustling Whitechapel neighborhood. ’ ”   Expert, a physicist at the King’s College London Center for   Neuroimaging Sciences, doesn’t exactly have the background you’d   expect of someone studying magic mushrooms. ” ’   But it was by drawing from his background as a physicist, Expert   told me, that he and his team were able to come up with a   systematic diagram of what the brain looks like on a psilocybin   trip. Their study, published in 2014, also helps explain how   altering the brain temporarily with psilocybin can produce   changes that appear to develop over time. ’ ’   When you alter how the brain functions  —   ”perturb the system,” in   physicist parlance  —   with psychedelics, ”that might reinforce   some connections that already exist, or they might be more   stimulated,” Expert said. ’ ”   But those changes aren’t as temporary as one might expect from a     shrooms trip. Instead, they appear to catalyze dozens   of other changes that deepen for months and years after taking   the drug. ” ’   ”So people who take magic mushrooms report for a long time after   the actual experience that they feel better, they’’re happier with   life,” said Expert. ”But understanding exactly why this is the   case is quite tricky because the actual trip is very short and   it’’s not within that short span of time that you could actually   have sort of new connections that are made. That takes much more   time.” ’ ’  ’ ’   The clinical trials that Walcoff and Martin took part in, which   took place at NYU and Johns Hopkins over five years, are the   longest and most comprehensive studies we have to date of people   with depression using psychedelics. ’ ’   Last year, a team of Brazilian researchers published a  on psychedelics published between   1990 and 2015. After looking at 151 studies, the researchers   found only six that met their analysis criteria. The rest were   either too small, too poorly controlled, or problematic for   another reason. ’ ’   Nevertheless, based on the six studies, the researchers concluded   that  psilocybin, and LSD may be ”useful pharmacological   tools for the treatment of drug dependence, and anxiety and mood   disorders, especially in   patients.” ’ ’   ”These drugs may also be useful pharmacological tools to   understand psychiatric disorders and to develop new therapeutic   agents,” they wrote. ’ ”   Because the existing research is so limited, scientists still   can’t say exactly what is happening in the brain of someone who   has tripped on psychedelics that appear to unleash such a cascade   of life changes like the kind Martin described. ” ”   What we do know, though, is that things like practicing a musical   instrument or learning a skill change the brain. It’s possible   that psychedelics do something similar over the long term, even   if the actual trip  —   the phase of drug use that many people focus   on  —   is pretty brief. ” ’   In other words, a trip ”might trigger a sort of snowball effect”   in the way the brain processes information, Expert said. ’ ’   And something about the experience appears to be much more   powerful for some people than even years of taking   antidepressants. ’ ’   A  in people whose chronic   depression had not responded to repeated attempts at treatment   with medication suggested that this may be the case. While the   trial,  was designed to determine only if the drug   was safe, all of the study participants said at a       that they saw a significant decrease in symptoms. The   majority said at a   three months later that they   continued to see a decrease in symptoms. ’ ’   ”We treated people who’’d been suffering for 30 years, and they’’re   getting better with a single dose,” said Nutt, who was one of the   authors of the study. ”So that tells us this drug is doing   something profound.” ’ ’   Between 1954 and 1960, the psychiatrist Humphry Osmond gave   thousands of alcoholics LSD. ’ ’   It was part of an experimental treatment regimen aimed at helping   them recover. Osmond thought that the acid would mimic some of   the symptoms of delirium tremens, a psychotic condition common in   chronic alcoholics who stop drinking that can involve tremors,   hallucinations, anxiety, and disorientation. Osmond thought the   experience might shock the alcoholics, who had failed to respond   to any other treatments, into not drinking again. ’ ’   He was wrong. ’ ’   Rather than terrifying his patients with an extreme case of   shakes and hallucinations, Osmond found that the acid appeared to   produce positive,   changes in their personalities.   Something about the LSD appeared to help the suffering alcoholics   ”reorganize their personalities and reorganize their lives,”   Michael Bogenschutz, an NYU psychiatrist, said at a conference on   therapeutic psychedelics last year. ’ ’   A year later,  said they had not returned to drinking  —     a  than any other existing treatment for   alcoholism. ’ ’   In an interview with the Harvard psychiatrist John Halpern, Abram   Hoffer, a biochemist and colleague of Osmond’’s, said: ”Many of   them didn’’t have a terrible experience. In fact, they had a   rather interesting experience.” ’ ’   While some say the trip is interesting, others have called it   ”spiritual,” ”mystical,” or even ”religious.” ’ ”   Scientists still can’t say for sure what goes on in the brain   during a trip that appears to produce these types of experiences.   We know that part of it is about the tamping down of certain   circuits and the ramping up of others. ” ’  ’ ’   One of the circuits that appear to quiet during a psychedelic   trip is the circuit that connects the parahippocampus and the   retrosplenial cortex. This network is thought to play a key role   in our sense of self, or ego. ’ ’   Deflating the ego is far from the   disappointment it   sounds like. Instead, it appears to make people feel more   connected to the people and environment around them. ’ ’     who conducted the first study of its kind to take   images of a healthy brain on LSD,  that his findings support that idea. ’ ”   In a person not on a drug, specific parts of the brain light up   with activity depending on what they’re doing. If they’re focused   on reading something, the visual cortex sparkles with action. If   they’re listening carefully to someone, their auditory cortex is   particularly active. Under the influence of LSD, the activity   isn’t as neatly segregated. ” ’   ”The separateness of these networks breaks down, and instead you   see a more integrated or unified brain,”   said. ’ ”   That change might help explain why the drug produces an altered   state of consciousness, too. Just as the invisible walls between   once segregated tasks are broken down, the barriers between the   sense of self and the feeling of interconnection with one’s   environment appear to dissolve. ” ’   ”The normal sense of self is broken down and replaced by a sense   of reconnection with themselves, others, and the natural world,”   said  . ’ ’   Because two of the characteristics of mental illnesses like   depression and alcoholism are isolation and loneliness, this   newfound interconnection could act as a powerful antidote. ’ ’   ”It’’s kind of like getting out of a cave. You can see the light,   and you can stay in the light,” Nutt said. ”You’’ve been   liberated.” ’ ’   Humans have a long history of looking to ”spiritual experiences”   to treat mental illness  —   and of using psychedelics to help bring   about such experiences. ’ ’   Ayahuasca, a hallucinogenic beverage brewed from the macerated   and boiled vines of the Banisteriopsis caapi (yage)   plant and the Psychotria viridis (chacruna) leaf, has   been used for centuries as a traditional spiritual medicine in   ceremonies among the indigenous peoples of Bolivia, Colombia,   Ecuador, and Peru. Its name is a combination of the Quechua words   ”aya,” which can be loosely translated to ”spirit,” and ”waska,”   or ”woody vine.” ’ ’   Europeans encountered ayahuasca in the 1500s, when Christian   missionaries traveling through Amazonia from Spain and Portugal   saw indigenous people using it. (The missionaries called it   .) ’ ”   It’s now understood that ayahuasca has a similar effect on the   brain as magic mushrooms or acid. Yet unlike magic mushrooms,   whose main psychoactive ingredient is psilocybin, ayahuasca’s   effects come from mixing the drug dimethyltryptamine, or DMT,   from the chacruna plant, and the MAO inhibitor from the yage   plant, which allows the DMT to be absorbed into the bloodstream. ” ’  ’ ’   In the early 1950s, the writer William Burroughs traveled through   South America looking for the yage plant, hoping to use it to   . Some 15 years earlier, a man   suffering in a ward for alcoholics in New York had a  on the hallucinogen belladonna. ’ ’   ”The effect was instant, electric. Suddenly my room blazed with   an incredibly white light,” . Shortly after that, the man, William Wilson,   founded the   recovery program Alcoholics Anonymous. Wilson   later ’ ’   Shortly after that, the man, William Wilson, founded the     recovery program Alcoholics Anonymous. Wilson later  and said he believed the drug could   help alcoholics achieve one of the central tenets of AA:   acceptance of ”a power greater than ourselves.” ’ ’   Nevertheless, ayahuasca, LSD, and other hallucinogens were slow   to gain notoriety across Europe and North America. They saw a   temporary surge in popularity in the US in the 1960s, with people   like Timothy Leary and Richard Alpert writing about the ”ego   loss” produced by magic mushrooms as part of their Harvard   Psilocybin Project. ’ ’   But in 1966, the government   —   and most experimentation, along with research   into their potential medicinal properties, came to a screeching   halt. ’ ’  ’ ’   Meanwhile, scientists have experimented with the drugs in   whatever capacity they can. ’ ”   Bogenschutz has spent years studying the effects of a single dose   of psychedelics on addicts. He’s found that in most cases,   studies suggest the hallucinogens can improve mood; decrease   anxiety; increase motivation; change personality, beliefs, and   values; and, most importantly, decrease cravings. But how? ” ’   ”One of the big questions was how would a single use produce   lasting behavior change?” he said in 2014. ”Because if this is   going to produce any lasting effect, there have to be consistent   changes.” ’ ”   Based on several small pilot studies that he’s helped conduct,   Bogenschutz hypothesizes that the drugs affect addicts in two   ways, which he breaks down into acute ( ) effects and   secondary ( ) effects. ” ”   In the short term, psychedelics affect our serotonin receptors,   the brain’s main   neurotransmitters. Next, they   affect our glutamate receptors, which appear to produce the     transformative experiences and psychological insight   that people experience on the drugs. ” ’   ”This is the most rewarding work I’’ve ever done,” Bogenschutz   said. ”To see these kinds of experiences . .. it’’s just not as   easy to get there with psychotherapy.” ’ ”   From the time she was born, Clark Martin’s daughter and her   father had a difficult relationship. Martin and his partner never   married, but they loved their child and divided their time with   her as best they could. ” ”   Still, Martin couldn’t help but feel as though their time   together was consistently strained. For one thing, the   spontaneity that’s so vital to many relationships was absent. He   always knew when their time together started and when it was   coming to an end. ” ’   ”You’’re not having as much everyday experience,” Martin said.   ”Instead, you’’re having kind of a planned experience. And that   affects the depth of the relationship, I think.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Martin felt similarly about his father, who had developed   Alzheimer’’s several years before. Martin would visit him when he   could, but whenever they were together, Martin felt compelled to   try to push the visit into the confines of what he thought a   ”normal”   interaction should be. He’’d try to make their   discussions mirror the ones they would have had before his father   became ill. ’ ’   ”I kept trying to have ’’normal’’ conversations with him,” Martin   said. ’ ’   About three hours into his psilocybin trip at Johns Hopkins,   Martin recalled a memory of his teenage daughter. ’ ’   He said he ”had been so focused on pursuing my own ideas about   what was best for her, trying to be the architect of her life,”   that he had let that get in the way of making sure she knew how   much he loved and cared about her. ’ ’   One afternoon about a year after the trip, Martin drove out to   visit his father. This time, Martin took him for a drive. ’ ’   ”He always loved farming and ranching, and we’’d just get in the   car and spend hours driving along,” Martin said. ’ ’   As they drove, rolling, green hills sped past them. His father   looked out at the lush horizon with awe, as if he were seeing it   for the first time. The crisp, blue sky. The soft blanket of   grass. ’ ”   All of a sudden, Martin’s father saw something. He gestured out   the window, but Martin saw nothing  —   just grass and trees and   sky. Then something moved in the distance. ” ’   There, in the middle of two emerald hills, a deer cocked its head   up. ’ ’   ”It was miles away,” Martin said. ”I would have completely missed   it.” ’