’  ’ ”   After a promising   start to the season, the New York Knicks   have once again become one of the NBA’s biggest sideshows. ” ’   Losers of 11 of their last 13 games, now at   on the season,   the Knicks are beginning to fall apart at the seams. ’ ’   Even after  from a game last   week, with a report indicating  the biggest story   has been the dissolving relationship between Carmelo Anthony and   Phil Jackson. ’ ’   After a Sunday loss to the Toronto Raptors, Anthony was asked   about a column written by Charley Rosen, a former Jackson   assistant and confidant, for the website Fanrag that claimed   Anthony had ”outlived his usefulness” for the Knicks. ’ ’   Anthony shot back at the column, saying that if Phil Jackson   doesn’’t want him in New York, ”that’’s a conversation we should   have.”  Anthony   was twice told that Rosen wrote the words, not Jackson, but   Anthony seemed to suggest Jackson was behind it. ’ ’   On Tuesday,  that Anthony met with Jackson to   discuss his future with the Knicks. While    and  reported that Anthony reiterated his   desire to stay in New York,  that the conversation was more ”contentious” than   previous conversations. Wojnarowski, reported Anthony was ”calm”   and ” .” ’ ”   Regardless of Anthony’s demeanor or desire to leave the Knicks   (Anthony’s contract has a   clause, meaning he would have   to approve any potential trade) this has been mounting for   months. Jackson didn’t help his optics with Anthony when he    (James and Anthony are close friends). Weeks   later, Jackson then publicly jabbed Anthony’s game, saying   he holds the ball too long and doesn’t pass enough, which seemed   to rankle Anthony. ” ’   Now, the situation appears to be coming to a head. Meanwhile, not   helping matters is that the rest of the team appears to be   falling apart. ’ ”   As the losses continue to pile up, a divide between head coach   Jeff Hornacek and the players appears to be growing. Last week,   Hornacek openly wondered if the Knicks didn’t have the personnel   to be a good defensive team, a sentiment with which center Joakim   Noah disagreed. ” ”   On Monday, before a   loss to the Atlanta Hawks,   Hornacek made a change to the starting lineup, removing shooting   guard Courtney Lee (whom the Knicks signed to a $50 million deal   over the offseason) for undrafted rookie guard Ron Baker.    though he later deleted the posts and said he   simply used the pictures to describe his feelings toward the   Knicks’ recent woes. ” ’   Additionally, after the game, backup point guard Brandon Jennings   expressed frustration with the rotation, saying, ”Every day is   something new. You got to be ready [because] you never know when   you’re going to play. When you come in, you really don’t know   what’s going to happen. There’s kind of no consistency. It’s   tough.” ’ ’   After the loss, Hornacek said the team is looking at all fixes   for the team, which could include benching Joakim Noah to play   Kristaps Porzingis (who’’s been out with a sore Achilles) at   center.  Noah, whose   media sessions have been ”terse and combative” this season, ended   his media session before he could be asked about a potential   benching. ’ ’  ’ ”   Where the Knicks go from here is unclear. Jackson can’t ship   Anthony out of town unless he agrees to a trade. Of   course, Anthony is far from the only problem facing the Knicks —     his contract just remains the biggest obstacle in a badly needed   rebuild. ” ”   Jackson’s decision to sign Noah to a   $72 million deal   also looks questionable, particularly given the      center’s injury history and lack of cohesion with the current   roster. While Rose has looked athletically explosive for the   Knicks and added a needed dimension to their offense, his play   also hasn’t been conducive to wins. Rose’s performance thus far   calls to question the Knicks’ decision to trade a serviceable   center on a fair contract in Robin Lopez and a young point guard   in Jerian Grant for him. The Knicks will need to evaluate Rose’s   fit with the team before long, as he’ll be a free agent, meaning   the Knicks will be faced with   him or releasing his cap   hold to pursue   point guards this summer. ” ”   This Knicks roster is the latest in a long line of attempted   quick fixes (some of which predate Jackson’s tenure). The Knicks   remain one   winning streak away from getting back   into the playoff picture and putting some of these issues to   rest. However, in the meantime, fissures appear to have opened   and they will need to be addressed sometime soon. ”