’  ’ ’   For   donors like Boeing and Chevron, the inauguration of     Donald Trump sounds downright romantic. ’ ’   They’’ll be treated to an ”intimate” dinner with Vice     Mike Pence and his wife. Then there’’s the   ”elegant” meal by candlelight  —   part of inaugural festivities   described by the event’’s planner as having a ”.” ’ ”   All that and more could be yours if you ponied up at least   $250, 000 to help fund Friday’s inaugural events, according to a    obtained by . ” ’   The  has raised   —   a record  —   to pay for the festivities   and provide big donors some face time with the new   administration. Donors at the $100, 000 level even get a ”policy   discussion and dinner with select Cabinet appointees.” ’ ’   In addition to the aerospace giant Boeing ($1 million donated)   and the oil company Chevron ($500, 000) AT&T, Verizon, and     are among the big companies helping fund the galas,   balls, and other pomp and circumstance welcoming Trump to the   White House on Friday. ’ ”   Presidents in both parties have long welcomed corporate donors to   their inaugurations. What’s different this year is the amount   raised  —   roughly equal to the sum of each of President Barack   Obama’s  —   and a lack of transparency. Trump inaugural officials   have broken with recent tradition and declined to release donor   information before the event. ” ”   Critics say this cozy access for corporations and special   interests goes against Trump’s campaign rhetoric. ” ’   ”This is very dangerous,” Fred Wertheimer, president of the   nonpartisan government accountability organization Democracy 21,   told Business Insider. ”It is a form of filling the swamp rather   than emptying it, to use the words of the  .” ’ ’  ’ ”   The only part of the inauguration mandated by the Constitution is   the   ceremony. And the expense associated with the     standing on the steps of the Capitol and putting   his hand on a Bible comes from taxpayers, not donors; it’s   managed by a separate congressional planning committee. Likewise,   part of the parade down Pennsylvania Avenue is managed by the US   military and paid for out of its budget. ” ”   Everything else, the ad hoc inaugural committee pays for with   corporate and other donor support: the concerts,     and jumbo TV screens. The style and schedule of the inaugural   events are entirely up to the incoming administration’s inaugural   committee, which can also decide how much contact donors have   with the new leaders. ” ’   ”It’’s a blank slate,” said Brian Screnar, who was finance   director for Obama’’s 2009 inaugural committee. ”What access can   you provide? Tons, or zero. That’’s all a choice.” ’ ’   Obama forbade all corporate giving and all donations above   $50, 000 at his 2009  . That changed in 2013 for his   second inauguration, when the administration reversed course and   welcomed donations from big companies. Corporations like AT&T   spent hundreds of thousands of dollars on the event. ’ ”   Screnar told Business Insider that forbidding corporate giving   can cause problems for organizers. If a company wanted to host a   free concert, for instance, it could be considered an     contribution. And the ban didn’t prevent some CEOs from shaking   hands with the   in 2009. ” ’   ”President Bush took it. President Clinton took it. Now President   Trump will take it,” Screnar said. ”The inauguration is a     hit. I don’’t think you can get that much access.” ’ ”   But watchdogs say what’s notable this year is the brazenness of   the promises of access, like the small discussions with Cabinet   nominees for   donors. ” ’   ”The    aspect of this one  —   special access for special   money  —   is not typical,” Norman Ornstein, resident scholar at the   American Enterprise Institute, told Business Insider. ”The money   for the companies is chump change, and they will have access   regardless. But, of course, it gets a little extra special   treatment.” ’ ’  ’ ”   The information we have, such as Boeing’s $1 million gift, comes   from voluntary disclosures by the companies themselves. The   Presidential Inaugural Committee did not respond to numerous   requests for comment. ” ”   Boeing’s and Chevron’s gifts are among the biggest known.     said this year’s donation will be   with what it   gave in 2013, which was a little over $431, 000. Verizon told   Business Insider it’s contributing $100, 000 to this year’s   events. AT&T is also donating but declined to say how much. ” ’   Boeing is giving the same amount it did in 2013. However, Chevron   seems to have dialed back its contribution. Chevron gave $1   million in 2013, according to    a website that compiles federal campaign contributions and   lobbying data. ’ ”   Of course, the companies giving to the inauguration could be   significantly affected by the Trump team’s policy proposals  —   and   while that could be said of any business, it’s still difficult   for ethics watchdogs to overlook. ” ’   ”There’’s a very   reason for funding the   inauguration,” said Craig Holman, government affairs lobbyist at   Public Citizen, which advocates reducing the influence of big   corporations in politics. ’ ”   Boeing’s future, for instance, is heavily dependent on US defense   contracts; Trump has  the new Air Force One that Boeing is   developing. And his foreign policy could affect Boeing’s ability   to sell planes to countries like Iran and China. ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tBoeing is building a brand new 747 Air Force One for future presidents, but costs are out of control, more than $4 billion. Cancel order! ’t’t’ ’   ”What it is, is buying time with the president and Cabinet   officials,” Holman told Business Insider. ’ ’   Boeing declined to comment when asked whether its contribution   could be seen as ”buying access” to government officials.  ’ ’   A Chevron spokesperson said the company has long participated in   presidential inaugurations and has ”worked successfully with 23   different presidential administrations.” ’ ’  ’ ’   While donations to presidential campaigns are heavily restricted   and regulated, there are virtually no rules on inaugurations. It    that inaugural committees   were required to release the names of the companies and   individuals that gave more than $200. And they have to release   that information 90 days after the ceremony. ’ ”   Obama and former President George W. Bush voluntarily released   that data beforehand. Trump’s team has, so far, broken with the   tradition. ” ’   ”He’’s trying to keep this as secret as he can until he has to   file his disclosure requirements,” Holman said. ’ ”   Obama’s inaugural committee raised . It had so much left over that it used   the surplus to renovate and redecorate the Oval Office and still   had several million dollars left over for the second   inauguration, Emmett Beliveau, who was CEO of the presidential   inaugural committee at the time, told Business Insider. ” ’   Tom Barrack, the   investor overseeing Trump’’s   inauguration, has described this year’’s event as more     less of a ”  celebration.” This raises the question of   how the committee  —   with more than $90 million on hand  —   will use   all that cash, which came in above its goal of raising $65   million to $75 million. ’ ’   ”I can’’t imagine what you’’d spend it on,” Beliveau said. ”I have   no idea how you could spend nearly twice the budget of the most   widely attended inaugural to date,” he said, referring to 2009,   which drew nearly 2 million attendees. ’ ”   An inaugural committee spokesman  that excess money would be donated   to charity, though he didn’t give specifics. ” ’   Wertheimer of Democracy 21 said there are no rules governing how   the committee uses any surplus funds. ’ ’   ”They can put it in people’’s pockets and just pay taxes on it,”   Wertheimer said. ’ ’   Or there are other options. ’ ’   ”We don’’t have much gold in the White House, and the incoming   president likes his gold,” he said. ’