’  ’ ”   An estimated half a million people turned out for the Women’s   March on Washington in protest on President Donald Trump’s first   full day in office. ” ’   The march aims to bring together women across diverse backgrounds   to send a bold message to the new administration that they will   not be ignored or have their rights stomped on. ’ ”   It began as a modest call to action on Facebook the night after   Trump’s election and   ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’ctress America Ferrara, star of the hit sitcom   ”Ugly Betty,” kicked off the events with a forceful speech from   the main stage area. ’ ’   ”Our opposition knows how to stick together. They are united in   their objective to hold this country back. . .. So we too must   stand united,” Ferrara said. ’ ’   ”If we, the millions of American who believe in a common decency,   in a greater good, in justice for all  —   if we fall into a trap of   separating ourselves by our causes and our labels, then we will   weaken our fight and we will lose. But if we commit to what   aligns us, if we stand together, steadfast and determined, then   we stand a chance at saving the soul of our country,” she said. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tAmerica Ferrera at Women’’s March: ”The president is not America. ..We are America, and we are here to stay.”   ’ ’   Inclusivity was a central theme of the many speeches. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”It was one woman in Hawaii who suggested that women should march   at inauguration. And look at us now, 500, 000 people strong,” Suh   said. ”One woman turns into one march turns into an entire   movement. That is a powerful thing. And it means as strong and as   tough as this administration thinks it is, we will always be   stronger.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Feminist icon Gloria Steinem received some of the loudest cheers   at the event. She spoke to the significance of women coming   together in every US state and across six continents  —   in person    —   as opposed to voicing their opinions on social media. ’ ’   ”Sometimes we must put our bodies where our beliefs are.   Sometimes pressing send is not enough,” Steinem said, making a   subtle dig at the   President Trump. ”This unifies   us with the many in the world who do not have electricity or   computers . .. but do have the same hopes, the same dreams.” ’ ’   ”This is an outpouring of energy and true democracy like I have   never seen in my very long life. It is wide in age, it is deep in   diversity. And remember, the Constitution does not begin with ”I,   the President,’’ it begins with ’’We, the people,’’” Steinem said. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tGloria Steinem unchanged: always fighting for more, never settling for less.   ’ ’   Filmmaker Michael Moore became one of the only men to give an   address from the main stage. The ”Fahrenheit  ” director   lightened the mood with a brief Trump impression and an anecdote   about his high school run for a seat on the school board, which   he claimed made him the first teenager in his homestate of   Michigan to serve public office. ’ ’   He encouraged the crowds to run for public office and condemned   the nomination of charter school advocate Betsy DeVos as   secretary of education. ’ ’   ”I did this, you can do this. Who’’s going to run for office?”   Moore asked, eliciting cheers. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tMichael Moore: ”We Are Here to Vow to End the Trump Carnage”   ’ ’   Meanwhile, more than 600 ”” are organized in global cities, including Boston,   New York, Chicago, and Los Angeles, and as far as Sydney, Paris,   Madrid, and Tokyo. ’ ’   President Trump spent the day attending a National Prayer   Service, an inaugural tradition, at the National Cathedral and   giving a celebratory address at the CIA headquarters in Virginia.   He told the audience they were his ”No. 1 stop,”  ’ ’   The newly inaugurated president made no public remarks on the   worldwide protests during his first full day in office. ’