’  ’ ’   WASHINGTON  —   John Fiore booked a   flight at     the standard rate so he could see Donald Trump, the   first president he voted for who actually won the election since   Ronald Reagan, sworn in as the 45th president of the United   States Friday. ’ ’   Fiore, a Boston native, summed up his feelings about the     Trump presidency following his inaugural address in   two words: ”I’’m psyched.” ’ ”   Although the number of revelers   for Trump’s inaugural   festivities was dwarfed by the past two ceremonies, in addition   to the   Women’s March on Saturday, supporters who   made the trek to see Trump sworn into office were impressed with   his performance, and stoked to see what comes next. ” ’   Trump’’s roughly   populist ”America First” address,   which was dubbed by some  as ”radical,” was deemed   ”fantastic” by central Virginia Trump supporter Dovonna   Bevington, who made the short trek to the nation’’s capital. ’ ’   Tracy Dean, who was alongside Bevington, said the address was   ”spot on” and ”really showed his professionalism and how he’’s   going to lead our country.” ’ ’   The pair of women who backed the real estate magnate said they’’re   excited for him to put ”our country back to work” and get ”our   foundation back,” Bevington told Business Insider. ’ ’   And, pointing to the protests occurring elsewhere in Washington   as the inaugural ceremonies were ongoing, some of which had   turned violent, Dean said she was looking forward to Trump   ”stopping all this nonsense violence going on up the street here   for no other reason than that they lost.” ’ ’   ”That’’s the only reason,” she said. ’ ’   Bevington, who conceded that a personal disliking of Democratic   presidential nominee Hillary Clinton played a significant role in   her warming up to Trump, said she was a fan of ”his love of   America,” and added that Trump ”picked a     good vice   president” in Mike Pence. ’ ’   Dean agreed, saying she was looking forward to seeing how the   country would be with Trump’’s ”love for its country and its   people.” ’ ’   ”The Americans,” she said. ’ ’   The selling point for her on Trump was that ”straight up he’’s a   real person.” ’ ’   ”Of course, he’’s a billionaire,” she said. We know that. But he   hasn’’t lived serving this country his whole life having to mind   his p’’s and q’’s everywhere he went. And, he related to us.” ’ ”   For Fiore, who said he worked decades back as an independent   journalist on Capitol Hill for a brief time, he’s most looking   forward to the relaxed regulations and lower taxes Trump has   promised. ” ’   ”And I’’d like to see the way the military is going to take it to   the terrorists rather than wait for something to happen and then   hunt them down,” he said. ”And I think that that is going to be a   refreshing change for the people. I actually think a lot of the   people protesting him are going to benefit more than me from   Donald Trump.” ’ ’  ’ ’ called himself a ”big believer in getting   stuff done,” and was sold on Trump as a doer years back when he   read ”Art of the Deal.” ’ ’   An   as well as a college roommate of Fiore’’s tried   to hold a ”Trump intervention” with him last year prior to to the   inauguration, he said. ’ ’   ”We want to talk you out of voting for Trump,”    recalled them telling him. ”By the end of   the conversation, I almost had them voting for Trump. We had a   good philosophical conversation. I wasn’’t into the ’’lock her up’’   stuff. I said, ’’Look, Donald Trump is someone who is going to get   things done. ’’”  ’ ’   Namely, working across the aisle with Democrats is what Fiore   wants to see happen in that regard. ’ ’   And, he was sympathetic to those protesting Trump across town. ’ ’   ”Back in the day, I mean, I’’m from Boston, I just thought Donald   Trump was a   New Yorker,” he said. ”And it wasn’’t   until after I finished his book that I started to like him. I   never watched ’’The Apprentice,’’” he said, later adding, ”I can   understand [people protesting Trump.] Back in the old days, he   rubbed me the wrong way because he’’s Donald Trump. He’’s a New   Yorker. But I actually think he’’s going to do well.” ’