’’ ”Donald Trump isn’t shy to tout his distaste of regulations.” ’Since he kicked off his presidential campaign in June 2015, Trump has derided   financial regulations as ”bad for business” and responsible for America’’s   economy.’ ’He even promised to .’ ’Most Wall Streeters view .’ ”Octavio Marenzi is the CEO of  a management consultancy firm focused on capital markets. He told Business Insider that Trump’s victory was an early Christmas present for banks and other financial firms.” ’”His win signaled that most of the financial regulations and requirements on the books today will  —   for the most part  —   be scaled back to what they were before the financial crisis,” Marenzi said.’ ’”This isn’’t going to necessarily translate into a golden age for banks, but it will be a normalization of the business environment. They’’ve been battered by regulations and now we are finally going to see a more healthy environment,” he said.’ ’”Our analysis shows that ’ ’’ ”Marenzi and Agami said that the Volcker Rule will likely be the first regulation on the chopping block now that Trump is officially president. That’s because all Trump would have to do, essentially, is tell regulators to stop enforcing it.” ’The rule, which is the namesake of former Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker, when it was implemented as means to prevent future financial crises.’ ’According to Marenzi and Agami, repealing the Volcker Rule will save investment banks approximately $6 billion.’ ’”The implications will be significant for large investment banks since dropping the rule would generate additional revenue and profitability streams,” they said.’ ’”There is also significant evidence that repealing The Volcker Rule will increase liquidity in various asset classes —  fixed income, equities, commodities, foreign government debt, etc. —  by enabling dealers to hold inventory that has   demand from clients that would otherwise not be allowed,” they added.’ ’Steven Mnuchin, Trump’’s Treasury Secretary nominee, said in a confirmation hearing that he supports the Volcker rule, but ”there needs to be proper definitions around the Volcker rule so that banks can understand exactly what they can do and what they can’’t do, and that they can provide the necessary function of liquidity in customer markets. ”’ ’He cited a paper from Federal Reserve staff released in December that found that the Volcker rule had a negative effect on   liquidity, . ’ ’According to Marenzi and Agami, significant reductions in capital and liquidity requirements, which were enacted in order to prevent the type of risky lending that some say was the impetus of the housing crisis, will free up banks to ramp up their lending.’ ’”It will free up nearly $20 billion in unproductive capital over the next   months that banks are hoarding and could redirect to other areas,” they wrote.’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’The Republic sweep of Congress and the presidency likely means the Financial Stability Oversight Council’’s ability to deem certain financial institutions as ”” will be revisited.’ ’’ ’’