’  ’ ”   Across the country, Americans disturbed by Trump’s rhetoric   are boycotting companies that have business ties to him and   his family. ” ’   A number of boycott campaigns, most notably  and  (DJTR) have popped up in the   last month.  ’ ’   The majority of the  including   Nordstrom and Sears, are continuing to sell clothing and home   furnishings by Ivanka Trump and the president. ’ ”   This is no surprise to Robert Passikoff, the founder of Brand   Keys, a marketing research firm that has studied Trump’s brand   power for the past 25 years. ” ’   ”The boycott is an ideological reaction,” he tells Business   Insider. ”Brands don’’t tend to do well when they involve   themselves with ideologies.” ’ ”   Although  says there’s no   historical model to compare the Trump boycotts to (i. e. people   not buying products connected to a brand that now is connected   to the US presidency) we can look to Trump’s brand power   over the past few years for some answers. ” ”   Brand Keys continually surveys consumers nationwide about Trump,   with each sample around 1, 800 people. To gather its data for its   Trump surveys, the firm asks people how much they think   particular products are worth (both with and without Trump’s   name). ” ”   Though Brand Keys normally conducts   research,   these surveys are part of an ongoing internal study.   Passikoff says the firm did not track the   political affiliation of its survey respondents until Trump   declared his candidacy, but that there have been equal   numbers of participants who identify as Republicans,   Democrats, and Independents since he entered the   running following percentages  —   which span   more than two decades  —   are therefore not   completely   but nonetheless offer insight   about Trump’s brand. ” ”   Before Trump declared his candidacy, the overall added value   for Trump’s brand was 25%. This means if an apartment complex   normally sold at $1, 000 per square foot, it could sell for $1, 250   per square foot with Trump’s name on it.   celebrities   like Derek Jeter typically have an added brand value of about   15%  says. ” ’   After Trump entered the race, his brand power decreased 20%   for products like suits, ties, and jewelry, but increased   for branded items geared toward wealthier Americans, like   country clubs and luxury condos. When   of  ’ ’  ’ ”predicts the   boycotts will do minimal damage to retailers’ bottom lines and     reputations. He says that might not be the case   for retailers that appeal to millennial voters  —   the   majority of which  for Trump. ” ’ ’ ”   Only seven retailers have stopped doing business with the   Trump family in the recent past. Macy’s    Donald Trump menswear in 2015 after he  many Mexicans are rapists or criminals (but the   company has kept Ivanka Trump products). On November   12,   ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Some retailers that felt pressure from the boycotts have   confirmed they will continue to carry Trump products or don’t   regret their decision to support Trump.  ” ’   In  sent to Nordstrom employees on November 21,     Pete Nordstrom wrote, ”Every single brand we offer   is evaluated on their results  —   if people don’t buy it, we won’t   sell it.” And since customers keep buying Ivanka Trump   merchandise, it’’s  for the company to drop her line, Fortune   . ’ ’ ’ ’   L. L. Bean might be the most recent retailer to end up the   Grab Your Wallet list, after the public learned that Linda   Bean,  ’ ’   L. L. Bean  ’ ’  ’ ’ 2016’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   A recent study from Northwestern University, as The New Yorker    concludes the same. The researchers found that though   major boycotts between 1990 and 2005 didn’t significantly hurt   sales, the bad publicity did damage company stock. Over a   third of the targeted retailers also changed their procedures   after they were protested.  ” ”   For example, after consumers found out Nike used child labor   in the 1990s, the subsequent boycott was  to the company’s reputation. Nike performed   600 factory audits, and was the first in the industry to   publish  ” ’    ’ ’   The Dior brand, worth an estimated $20. 2 billion, was able to   ride out the controversy because it immediately dropped Galliano   after a wave of public criticism. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’   ” ’ ” An earlier version of this story did not detail the political   affiliation of Brand Keys’ survey participants. The firm   only did so after Trump declared his presidential candidacy. ”