’  ’ ”   ABC reporter Jonathan Karl pressed White House press secretary   Sean Spicer on Monday over Spicer’s inaccurate claims about the   size of inaugural crowds. ” ’   During what President Donald Trump’’s team dubbed the ”first   official press briefing,” Karl confronted Spicer about his   Saturday statement that Trump’’s inauguration was the ”largest   audience to ever witness an inauguration  —   period  —   both in   person and around the globe,” despite evidence to the contrary. ’ ’   ”Is it always your intention to tell the truth on that podium,   and do you pledge to never to knowingly say something that is not   factual?” Karl asked. ’ ’   Spicer said that his intention was ”never to lie” to reporters   and that the administration and journalists could ”disagree on   the facts.” ’ ’   ”There are times we believe something to be true or we get   something from an agency or we act in haste because the   information available wasn’’t complete, but our desire is to   communicate with the American people and make sure you have the   most complete story at the time, so we do it,” Spicer said. ’ ’   ”I’’m going to come out here and tell you the facts as I know   them, and if I make a mistake, I’’ll do my best to correct it,” he   added. ’ ”   The size of the crowd at Friday’s inauguration became a source of   debate after Trump said on Saturday that more than 1 million   people attended. ” ”   There are no official government estimates of the crowd size, but   independent  put it at closer to 250, 000 attendees, while    and photographs comparing Trump’s   inauguration with past inaugurations suggested that the number   was far lower than the White House claimed. ” ”   Spicer also attempted to point out the media’s errors, noting   Time reporter Zeke Miller’s inaccurate Friday report that the   Marin Luther King Jr. bust in the Oval Office was removed  —   a   brief report that Miller quickly corrected and apologized for. ” ’   ”You’’re in the same boat. There are times when you tweet   something out or you write a story and you publish a correction.   That doesn’’t mean that you were intentionally trying to deceive   the American people, does it?” Spicer said. ”And I think that we   should be afforded the same opportunity.” ’ ’   Spicer said that the information he was provided on Saturday,   which was given to him by the inaugural committee, ”came from an   outside agency,” and he highlighted the millions of people who   watched on TV and streaming services. ’ ’   The press secretary said that he never claimed that the   inauguration had the largest   audience, saying he always   meant the total audience of viewers for the inauguration. ’ ’   ”I didn’’t say in person  —   both in person and around the globe to   witness it,” Spicer said. ”I don’’t know how I could interpret   that differently. That’’s literally what I said, to witness it   both in person and around the globe.” ’ ’   Later in the press conference, Spicer said that it was ”not about   the crowd size,” citing commentary and punditry suggesting that   Trump could not win key states in the 2016 election. ’ ’   ”There is this constant theme to undercut the enormous support   that he has,” Spicer said. ”And I think it is unbelievable   frustrating when you’’re told it’’s not big enough, it’’s not good   enough, you can’’t win.” ’ ”   Spicer’s comments on Saturday raised concern from several former   White House officials. ” ”   Jay Carney, President Barack Obama’s second press secretary,   voiced his displeasure with Spicer’s insistence on the crowd size   on Twitter. ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tWrong. The President I worked for never told me to lie. Ever. And I doubt Pres. Bush ever told  to lie. Today was not normal.  ’ ’   During an appearance on CBS on Monday, Ari Fleischer, a press   secretary for President George W. Bush, urged Spicer to correct   his error. ’ ’   ”It concerns me. It’’s one thing to take on the press  —   that’’s a     tradition in Washington, DC,” Fleisher said. ”The   part about how people showed up in the audience at the   inauguration, who cares. It’’s not worth fighting over.” ’