’  ’ ’   Sean Spicer found himself becoming a meme that went places few  —     if any  —   political memes have gone. ’ ’   After  that President Donald   Trump’’s inauguration ”was the largest audience to ever witness an   inauguration, period, both   and around the globe,”  —     which photographic evidence, at the very least, showed it could   not have been  —   the meme was born. ’ ’ long  to spurn  have his tweets mined, and see a   photo of himself from the press briefing room go viral. There was   even a  titled ”It’’s a fact  —   Trump’’s   press secretary has become a meme,” and  was   unearthed. ’ ’   Most political memes remain confined to politics   Twitter, only being circulated by the Washington elite and   journalism class. But the Spicer meme was different  —   it managed   to spill out into the mainstream. ’ ’   The newly minted White House press secretary was even   parodied by the professional sports world. ’ ’   Spicer  to walk back his statement a   bit during his Monday press briefing, claiming that he meant the   combination of   and global viewers was what he meant,   but it was too late. The damage was already done. ’ ’ ’ ’  that the lying media does not mention the 1, 000, 000 invisibility cloaks issued to the crowd on inauguration day’t’t’ ’ ’t’t’t”The Beatles, INCLUDING John & George, played the inaugural concert and President Trump applauded them with his HUGE HANDS.”  ’ ’ ’t’t’t“No, I did not become a meme about telling absurd lies after my very first press conference. ”   Sean Spicer   ’ ’ ’t’t’tI wonder if young sean spicer ever dreamed he would one day grow up to become a meme.  ’ ’ ’t’t’tGotta hand it to  Sean Spicer. Yesterday most people never heard of him. Today he’s a meme. Period.  ’ ’   The meme hit so hard it went far beyond politics. The  claimed on its   jumbotron near the end of a Saturday night game that the paid   attendance was ”1. 5 million.” ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tStars Jumbotron with a topical joke.  ’ ’   Gregg Popovich, the head coach of the NBA’’s San Antonio   Spurs,  of calling out Spicer on   Saturday, and Golden State Warriors coach Steve Kerr invoked a   Spicer joke when speaking of his lackluster career with the   Orlando Magic after he was addressed as ”former Orlando Magic   great.” ’ ’   ”Yes, Sean Spicer will be talking about my Magic career any   second now,” . ”14, 000 points,   greatest player in Magic history.” ’ ’   As if breaking through the typically   zone of pro   sports was not enough, Spicer found himself being lampooned by    too. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’t”The Big the Cat sections of Sonic Adventure were very popular. It’’s true”  ’ ’  ’ ’ ’t’t’t”Instead of having some sort of bulky gamer headset, you’ll be able to do it right off your smartphone. ..that’s a pretty sweet solution.”  ’ ’ ’t’t’t”Killzone 2’’s trailer was 100%   footage, period.”   Sean Spicer  ’ ’   As New York Times reporter Maggie Haberman wrote, the early   episode for Spicer looks like it could be a defining mark on his   stint as press secretary. ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tAnnouncers at an NBA game were making  jokes this weekend. This moment broke through huge. And can’t be put back in bottle. ’t’t”