’  ’ ”   WASHINGTON (AP)  —       bid to be secretary of state narrowly won approval Monday from   the   Foreign Relations Committee, a move that all   but assures Senate confirmation of President Donald Trump’s   choice to be the nation’s top diplomat. ” ”   Members of the committee voted along party lines,   to back    following a contentious confirmation   hearing nearly two weeks ago that stoked concerns he might not   win the panel’s recommendation. ” ’   But just hours before members cast their votes, Sen. Marco Rubio,    . declared his support for  backing   off from a challenge to the new president. ’ ’   Rubio said that despite serious reservations about    particularly over his views on Russia, he   believed a president was entitled to significant deference in   assembling his Cabinet. ’ ”   None of the committee’s 10 Democrats voted for   . They cited concerns    would continue to view the world through   the lens of a corporate executive and not the nation’s chief   diplomat. ” ’   Sen. Ben Cardin of Maryland, the panel’’s top Democrat, said    ”equivocated” during his confirmation   hearing on questions about human rights, civil society and press   and religious freedoms, and repeatedly prioritized ”narrow   business interests ahead of these core national security   interests.” ’ ’   Every nominee for the job going back at least four decades has   been approved by overwhelming votes from both sides in the   Foreign Relations Committee, as senators have traditionally   wanted to deliver a bipartisan display of confidence to the   nation’’s top diplomat. No other nominee since 1977 has received   more than two ”no” votes from the committee. ’ ’  ’ ’   Sen. Bob Corker of Tennessee, the committee’’s Republican   chairman, said he has ”no doubt”  is     citing his leadership of the energy giant. Corker   chided his colleagues who had demanded information about    personal taxes, saying the material had   been used to ask ”silly, silly questions.” ’ ’   Rubio announced he would vote for  in a   statement posted on Facebook. ”Despite my reservations, I will   support Mr.  nomination in committee and   in the full Senate,” said Rubio, who’’d come under strong pressure   from fellow Republicans to back the nomination and avoid dealing   Trump an embarrassing setback in the early days of his   presidency. ’ ’   Rubio had clashed with  at a committee   hearing earlier this month, bridling at his refusal to label   Russian President Vladimir Putin a ”war criminal” and his failure   to condemn human rights violations in Saudi Arabia and the   Philippines in strong enough terms. He chided    over the need for ”moral clarity.” But in   the end, after unsuccessfully opposing Trump for the GOP   nomination last year before coming around to support him, Rubio   decided to fall in line this time, too. ’ ’  ’ ’   His statement came after the nomination got a boost on Sunday   from two influential Republican senators, John McCain of Arizona   and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, who also offered tepid   endorsements for . ’ ’   Like Rubio, McCain and Graham had voiced concerns in light of    long history of personal dealings with   Putin, his record of doing oil deals in Russia and his   questioning of the U. S. sanctions on that country. ’ ’   Sen. Chris Coons,  . said he was encouraged by several of    public stances, including ”his     understanding of the threat posed by Putin’’s Russia”   and his commitment to NATO. But Coons said the differences on key   issues between himself and  two outweighed   the similarities. ’ ’   ”I believe that climate change is a pressing national security   threat,” Coons said. ”I believe that advocating for human rights,   a free press, and democracy around the world advances our own   security and economic interests here at home.” ’ ”   Further roiling the debate is U. S. intelligence’s assessment that   Russia meddled in the presidential election to help Trump defeat   Hillary Clinton. ” ’   Even while announcing his support for    Rubio laid out a series of concerns in his statement Monday. ’ ’   ”Despite his extensive experience in Russia and his personal   relationship with many of its leaders, he claimed he did not have   sufficient information to determine whether Putin and his cronies   were responsible for ordering the murder of countless dissidents,   journalists and political opponents,” Rubio said of   . ”He indicated he would support sanctions   on Putin for meddling in our elections only if they met the   impossible condition that they not affect U. S. businesses   operating in Russia.” ’ ’   ___ ’ ’   Associated Press researcher Monika Mathur contributed to this   report. ’