’  ’ ’   A bill introduced by Alabama Rep. Mike Rogers earlier this month   calls on the US to ”terminate” its membership in the United   Nations and effectively sever all ties with the organization. ’ ’   The bill, titled the  was proposed on January   3. It is cosponsored by a handful of Republican lawmakers,   including North Carolina Rep. Walter Jones, Arizona Rep. Andy   Biggs, Missouri Rep. Jason Smith, Kentucky Rep. Thomas Massie,   Tennessee Rep. John Duncan Jr. and Florida Rep. Matt Gaetz. ’ ’   Biggs said in a statement on Monday that he cosponsored the bill   because he believes that ”our sovereignty as a country is harmed   by our membership in this body.” ’ ’   ”We need to take a long look at our relationship with the United   Nations to ensure that American interests are protected first and   foremost,” Biggs said. ”I’’m grateful to Congressman Mike Rogers   for introducing this legislation.” ’ ”   Rogers and the bill’s other cosponsors did not immediately   respond to requests for comment. ” ”   The bill proposes barring the US from committing funds or troops   to UN peacekeeping operations worldwide and stipulates that the   UN must vacate property owned by the US government. It would   repeal the 1973 Environment Program Participation Act, strip UN   employees of diplomatic immunity in the US, and repeal the US’s   membership and participation in the World Health Organization. ” ”   The bill’s language is strong, and it’s an extreme long shot to   garner the necessary support to pass the House and move on to the   Senate. Rogers tried, unsuccessfully, to pass a similar bill in   2015. ” ’   ”I suspect foreign governments will be more interested in what   the administration does with regard to the UN,” said Stephen   Biddle, an adjunct senior fellow for defense policy at the   Council on Foreign Relations and a professor of political science   and international affairs at George Washington University. ’ ’   ”This proposal doesn’’t strike me as something that’’s likely to   rise above the noise,” Biddle said, ”but it does play into the   administration’’s narrative about opposing multilateral   institutions and withdrawing from global leadership roles.” ’ ’   Sarah Binder, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and a   professor of political science at George Washington University,   said that the bill looks like messaging and ”sheer    ” by Rogers to Trump voters. Rogers doesn’’t serve   on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Binder noted, ”and thus   would have little opportunity, resources, or leverage to push his   bill through.” ’ ’  ’ ’   President Donald Trump  the UN as ”just a club for people to get   together, talk, and have a good time” and promised that relations   between the US and the UN ”will be different” during his   presidency. ’ ”   Trump’s criticism of the organization came after the UN Security   Council passed a resolution in late December calling on Israel to   halt building settlements on occupied Palestinian land. Trump,   along with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, urged the   US to vote against the resolution, which was sponsored by Egypt.   But the US ultimately abstained, and the resolution passed. ” ’   Many Republican lawmakers have accused the UN of having an   ” ” bias that aims to isolate and weaken the Jewish   state. Arizona Sen. John McCain said the UN vote marked ”another   shameful chapter in the bizarre   history of the United   Nations.” House Speaker Paul Ryan called the vote ”” and vowed that ”our unified Republican government”   would work to reverse the resolution. ’ ’   Few, if any, mainstream Republican lawmakers have gone as far as   to advocate a full withdrawal of the US from the UN. In 2015,   Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul said  the UN because he   didn’’t like ”paying for something that   Third World   countries with no freedom attack us and complain about the United   States.” ’ ’   But some have said they would support defunding the organization,   which   —   roughly 22% of its total budget  —     from the US in 2016. ’ ’   Earlier this month,  that the House Freedom Caucus was drafting   a bill, proposed by South Carolina Sen. Lindsey Graham, to sever   financial ties with the organization. Republican Sens. Tom   Cotton, Ted Cruz, and McCain said that they would support the   initiative. ’ ’   ”I anticipate this vote will create a backlash in Congress   against the United Nations,” Graham  shortly after the Israel resolution   passed. ”The United Nations will regret this vote and I hope the   Obama administration will realize the massive mistake they made   on their way out of the door.” ’ ’   Nikki Haley, Trump’’s pick to replace Samantha Power as the US   ambassador to the UN, said during her Senate confirmation hearing   last week that the UN is a body that is ”often at odds with   American national interests,” and called the US’’s decision to   abstain from the Israel vote ”a terrible mistake.” ’ ’   She said that while the US should reexamine its   ”disproportionate” financial contribution to the UN, she doesn’’t   think there should be ”a slash and burn” of the US’’s support for   the organization. ’ ’   ”I want to bring back faith in the UN,” Haley said. ”I want to   show that we can be a strong voice at the UN. I want to show that   we can make progress and have action at the UN.” ’