’Last weekend, I returned from a trip to Japan to help Business Insider launch its latest  Business Insider Japan.’ ’After spending two weeks in Tokyo, one aspect of the city continued to strike me after I returned: the overwhelming abundance of vending machines.’ ’The proliferation of vending machines is impossible to ignore. They are on nearly every block in Tokyo  —   down alleyways, in front of convenience stores, in areas both residential and commercial.’ ’At slightly over 5 million nationwide, Japan has the highest density of vending machines worldwide. There is approximately  according to the Japan Vending Machine Manufacturers Association. Annual sales total .’ ’And they are marked by an incredible variety. The machines sell any number of types of soft drinks, coffee, tea, cigarettes, candy, soup, hot food, and even sake and beer.’ ”The pervasiveness and variety of Japan’s vending machines isn’t an unexplored topic. If there’s one thing Americans returning from Japan appear to like to   about, it’s the wild and strange products sold in vending machines.” ’Among the first results on a Google search for ”Japan vending machines”: ”,” ”,” ”,” ”,” and ”. ”’ ”What interested me, however, was what the vending machines say about Japan’s unique culture. An obvious answer stuck out: Japanese people, and Tokyoites in particular, work a lot and therefore value convenience. But so do New Yorkers, as well as any other number of   and still vending machines are not nearly as popular.” ’So why are they ubiquitous? Sociologists and economists have offered a few potential answers.’ ”Japan’s declining birthrate, aging population, and lack of immigration have contributed to make labor both scarce and costly, according to William A. McEachern, an economics professor at the University of Connecticut. ” ”In his  McEachern points to Japan’s vending machines as a solution to this problem, by eliminating the need for sales clerks.” ”Robert Parry, an economics lecturer at Japan’s Kobe University, also pointed to high labor costs as a reason Japanese retailers have so enthusiastically embraced vending machines i. ” ’’ ’With a population of  in a country roughly the size of California, Japan is  in the world, particularly when you consider that about .’ ’93 percent of the Japanese population .’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’Japan has long been known  but that’s not the only crime statistic in which the country excels. According to a United Nations 2010 crime report, Japan ranks .’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ”If there’s one other aspect of Japanese culture that stuck out to me, it was a heavy reliance on cash.” ’’ ’’ ’’ ’Japanese culture is obsessed with automation and robots, journalist ’ ’’ ’ “There is no other country that has so much automation. The Japanese people have a high regard for, and trust in, automated systems,” Washizu said.’