’  ’ ’   Liam Neeson admits he wasn’’t impressed with Shūsaku Endō’’s novel   ”Silence” when Martin Scorsese offered him a role in the movie   adaptation two years ago. ’ ’   ”It was very dull,” the   actor recently told   Business Insider over the phone. ’ ’   But after reading the movie’’s script, he said, ”the issues in the   book really came alive for me.” And so Scorsese had the final   piece in his latest attempt in 26 years to make the movie. ’ ’   Neeson gives an incredible performance as Father Ferreira, a   Jesuit priest who in attempting to spread Christianity in     Japan is captured by samurai who are keeping the   religion out of the country and put Ferreira through numerous   types of torture until he renounces his faith. ’ ’   Neeson talked to Business Insider about the role, preparing for a   grueling torture scene, how the experience was different from   working with Scorsese on ”Gangs of New York,” that time he almost   played Abraham Lincoln in Steven Spielberg’’s ”Lincoln,” and why   we will probably never see his   Jinn in any upcoming ”Star   Wars” movies. ’ ’  ’ ’Jason Guerrasio: A major scene for Father   Ferreira is the torture scene. What were the discussions you and   Scorsese had about tackling it? ’ ”Liam Neeson: It was an actual torture  —   many   martyrs lost their lives that way and were punished that way in   Japan. We knew exactly what happened and what the pit was filled   with, which was human excrement, and they were hung upside down.   Then these boards were put around them so after some time you   didn’t have a sense of where you were in space or time and you   were constantly suffering. You didn’t die, but there was an   agony, and you couldn’t move your body because you’re harnessed   in like a straightjacket. ” ’Guerrasio: Did you experience it yourself   outside of the shots we see of your doing it? ’ ”Neeson: Beforehand, to get some type of feel for   it, I hung upside down on that machine that you’ll find at the   gym, inversion table, and you can hang upside down. So I did that   in preparation. ” ’Guerrasio: Did you use any of your experience   making ”” in helping to prepare for ”Silence”? ’ ’Neeson: Very much. I think we made it in 1985, I   believe. Our technical adviser was Father  who just passed away last year. I   was pals with Father Dan; he was a famous Jesuit in his time.   Myself, Bob De Niro, Jeremy Irons, we talked with Father Dan   about the gospel and how it relates to today’’s world, then being   the ’’80s. It was really, really enlightening. We did preparation   in Jesuit training, which they still do to this day  —   namely the   spiritual exercises. So my research on ”The Mission” played very   heavily in this film. ’ ’  ’ ’Guerrasio: Was it a different experience working   with Scorsese this time around? ’ ’Neeson: I knew how important ”Silence” was for   Martin. He spent 26 years putting the film together. The sets on   ”Silence” were incredibly quiet. He did demand from all the crew,   especially when he was talking to his actors before we do a   scene, he did demand absolute silence, and he got it. He did   create this space for you to do your best work, to really focus. ’ ’Guerrasio: That was different from ”Gangs of New   York”? ’ ’Neeson: I’’m not saying on ”Gangs of New York” he   was walking around telling jokes  —   it was a different subject   matter. There were always crowds of actors. It was a different   energy. ’ ’Guerrasio: Did you have to wait around for a   call from Scorsese that it was time to finally shoot ”Silence”? ’ ”Neeson: No. I met with Martin around 2015, and   this is when he was very close to shooting. It wasn’t like I was   waiting around for years and years. ” ’Guerrasio: You have such an incredible   filmography, but I want to bring up a project you didn’’t take on:   Any regrets not doing ”Lincoln” with Steven Spielberg? ’ ”Neeson: I have absolutely no regrets about that   at all. The script I was involved with Steven on was totally   different than what he shot. I thought I was past my   date   with this. This just isn’t me anymore. And I’m glad it happened.   When I saw the film and what Steven had done and certainly what   Daniel [  as Lincoln] had done was     extraordinary.   I thought it was beautiful. I was so pleased I made that   decision. Dan was superb. ” ’  ’ ’Guerrasio: Deep down, do you want to go back and   play   Jinn again? ’ ”Neeson: No. No. That was 20 years ago. No, and   nor have I been approached. And with all these   they are   doing who knows what’s going to happen. ” ”Guerrasio: That’s why I bring it up  —   the   character may have a reason to get back in the mix. ” ”Neeson: I would certainly take their call, let’s   put it that way, but I think that ship has sailed. ” ’ ”Silence” is currently playing in theaters. ’