’  ’ ’   Rep. Ted W. Lieu and Sen. Edward J. Markey, both Democrats,   introduced legislation on Tuesday that would forbid the president   from launching a nuclear strike without first having Congress   declare war. ’ ’   The bill expresses clear doubts in President Donald Trump’’s   judgment, with the lawmakers saying  ”the crucial issue of nuclear ’’first use’’   is more urgent than ever now that President Donald Trump has the   power to launch a nuclear war at a moment’s notice.” ’ ’   “It is a frightening reality that the US now has a      who has demonstrated ignorance of the nuclear   triad, stated his desire to be ‘unpredictable’ with nuclear   weapons, and as   was making sweeping statements   about US nuclear policy over Twitter,” the statement continues,   apparently referencing a moment in a Republican primary   debate in which Trump . ’ ’   As it stands, the president has   access to a ”” and may launch nuclear weapons at   any given time without approval. Meanwhile, Congress has not   declared war since World War II. ’ ” executive director of the  issued a statement praising Lieu and Markey   for writing their bill, but told Business Insider it’s   legislation they would have supported before or after Trump’s   inauguration. ” ’   ”This is a message bill. It’s intended to express concern about   the fact that Donald Trump of all people has access to the   nuclear weapons codes that can launch up to 900 nuclear weapons   in 10 minutes without any other official needing to review and   approve,” Kimball said. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”The fundamental purpose of US nuclear weapons is to deter a   nuclear attack,” Kimball said. ”They’’re not intended to be used   in response to or preempt a conventional attack or chemical or   biological weapons attack.” ’ ”   The bill would only limit Trump’s ability to launch a strike   first. As a vital part of US nuclear deterrence, the president   can authorize a strike in retaliation, or when the US receives   intelligence that enemy nukes are inbound. ” ’   ”What the bill highlights is the undemocratic nature of the   process by which the    can launch a   devastating strike involving nuclear weapons and all but invite a   devastating response against US forces,” said Kimball.  ’