’   A US National Park deleted several tweets on Tuesday   highlighting the effects of climate change amid an apparent   crackdown on federal agencies issued by President Donald   Trump barring them from publicly sharing information. ’ ’   Hours after Trump   the construction of two pipelines and   said separately environmentalism had ”gone too far,”   Badlands National Park tweeted, and   subsequently erased, a number of tweets highlighting facts   that showed the effects of climate change.  ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tEarlier today Trump said environmentalism had gone too far. Now  is tweeting out climate change facts.  ’ ’   The deletions came after several agencies ordered their   communications staff to halt external communication, in some   cases with lawmakers and the public. ’ ’   The Huffington Post  that Department of Health and Human Services   employees were barred from sharing information with public   officials. The Environmental Protection Agency also issued a memo   ordering staff to halt tweeting and sharing press releases,   while several divisions within the Department of Agriculture    similar directives requesting employees   halt sharing information with the public.  ’ ’   On Tuesday, Democrats lamented the deleted tweets.  ’ ’’ ’   ”Vladimir Putin would be proud,” Democratic National Committee   spokesperson Adrienne Watson said in a statement. ’ ”   Environmental activists widely decried Trump’s moves on Tuesday. ” ’   NextGen Climate President Tom Steyer characterized   Trump’’s executive actions as putting ”corporate interests   ahead of American interests,” saying the pipelines would harm the   environment, while eschewing   green energy   infrastructure that could create renewable energy jobs. ’ ’   ”For us to spend money to build, improve, and lock us into fossil   fuel infrastructure  —   it is going to be bad from an environmental   standpoint and a greenhouse gas standpoint, which is also going   to raise our costs and make us less competitive,” the billionaire   environmental activist in a telephone interview. ”It’’s   really stupid.” ’