’  ’ ’   On Tuesday, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer introduced a     $1 trillion infrastructure building plan  —   one that   seems to jibe with the kind of investment President Donald Trump   talked about on the campaign trail. ’ ’  ’ ’   Sounds good, right? The President and his opposition agree on   something. Should be easy for him to rally his party behind this   and get something done. ’ ”   Wrong. With infrastructure, the devil is in the details. And the   details are not only about what gets built  but also (and   more importantly for our purposes) how it’s paid for, and there’s   a lot of disagreement between Democrats, congressional   Republicans, and President Trump on that. ” ”   In his announcement, Schumer said that a spending bill that   depends on tax credits and   partnerships to spur   private investment in infrastructure would not be acceptable to   Democrats. And, ladies and gentleman, that’s basically the only   kind of financing Trump talks about in his plan (which, to be   fair, seems unfinished and lacks a lot of important details). ” ”   Republicans, on the other hand, have already started dismissing   Trump’s ideas on infrastructure overall. As early as December,   Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell he hoped to  ” ’  ’ ’   Well, yes. Any expert will tell you that all infrastructure is   eventually paid for one way or another. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”All kinds of things have to be fixed if we’’re going to be a   truly competitive economy,” Ross said. ’ ’   So you can see how this is already delicate, especially for a   Washington outsider like Trump. Congressional Republicans  —   his   allies  —    don’’t have a plan, and don’’t really seem to want   one. Schumer has one the Republicans will hate, and Trump has no   plan beyond ”okay, here’’s some stuff we should build.” ’ ”   Meanwhile, as Morgan Stanley pointed out in a note recently,    Trump seems to be   putting some tough political fights before infrastructure. First   there’s repealing Obamacare, then there’s something Republicans   actually want, tax reform. The latter is already turning into a   dog fight. ” ’   ”Tax reform is not a given,” Morgan Stanley’’s Michael Zezas wrote   this week. ”... there’s rising risk that it becomes collateral   damage of the debate over how to repeal the Affordable Care Act   (ACA, or ‘Obamacare’). Rising displeasure among Republicans about   the risk of increasing the uninsured if they repeal ACA without   immediately replacing it risks delaying this legislative process,   and tax reform as a consequence.” ’ ’   Infrastructure is likely to come only after the dust settles   from all those battles, unless Schumer really knows how to blow   it up. Regardless, this is in no way going to be a breeze. ’ ” Listen to BI’s Linette Lopez and Josh Barro talk about how   infrastructure projects go wrong on their podcast,  ” ’ ’ ’     ’