’  ’ ’   Both President Trump and his pick for Secretary of   Education, Betsy DeVos, are vocal advocates of giving parents   alternatives to public school, which Trump  ”a   monopoly.” ’ ’   DeVos, in particular, has championed vouchers  —       credits parents can use to send their kids to the school of their   choosing. ’ ’   Many of those schools are charter schools, private schools, or   magnet schools. ’ ”   Here’s what separates one from the other. ” ’   Private schools are probably the most popular of the three, not   to mention the most straightforward. ’ ’   Instead of receiving taxpayer dollars to teach a standard,     curriculum, private schools charge a tuition   to teach outside the normal constraints. ’ ’  ’ ’   Depending on the state, private schools may still need to teach   certain subjects  with public schools. ’ ’   The vouchers DeVos supports most often apply to private schools  —     a move viewed  as harmful to the system, since it   siphons taxpayer money away from public schools. ’ ’   Students may also get scholarships or grants to private schools,   similar to how the university system functions. ’ ’   At their most basic level, charter schools are schools that are   privately run but publicly funded. They are free to deviate from   most state guidelines  —   excluding tests  —   and can range in size   from one student learning at home to thousands across the   country. ’ ”   Popular charter schools include New York’s Success Academy   network, which has 34 branches, and the BASIS network in Arizona,   Texas, and Washington D. C. which comprises 24 schools. ” ’   Recent  find there are approximately three million students   in the US currently attending charter schools. ’ ’   As their name implies, charter schools must adhere to their   specific charter. Some charters focus on engineering and math;   others focus on the arts. They have school boards and management   organizations that regulate their operations and employ teachers,   similar to normal school boards and districts. ’ ’  ’ ”   Magnet schools are probably the least understood of the three.   Magnets  —     for their ability to draw students across   normal district lines  —   are specialized public schools. They’re   similar to charters in offering   courses, but they   are wholly public in both their funding and operation. ” ’   They emerged in the 1970s as a remedy to racial segregation in   public schools. Many of them were in poorer areas with greater   minority populations, with the idea being to ”pull” white   students back into areas their families may have previously fled. ’ ’   Popular magnets include the School for the Gifted and Talented,   in Dallas, Texas, and the Academic Magnet High School in North   Charleston, South Carolina. ’ ’   To date, there are roughly  across the US compared to  and  private schools. ’