’  ’ ”   A mass exodus was underway at the State Department on Thursday as   the department’s entire senior level of management   officials abruptly left positions they had held   for years. ” ’   It is unclear whether the senior foreign service officers   resigned in protest, as the  or were asked to leave by the   new administration, . ’ ’   State Department officials traditionally submit their   resignations at the beginning of every new administration as a   sign of respect, but it is largely a symbolic gesture. ’ ”   Patrick Kennedy, the State Department’s  ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Former State Department officials and foreign policy   professionals who spoke to Business Insider noted that there is   typically a high degree of turnover when new   administrations are installed. But they all said that the   abrupt and simultaneous exodus of senior management officials was   unlike anything they’d seen before. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Ambassador Gentry O. Smith, who left with Kennedy, was   responsible for ”facilitating the secure and efficient operation   of US diplomatic missions abroad and foreign diplomatic missions   in the United States.” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   There was a perception, some say, that the officials who resigned   were somehow ”tainted” by their association with Hillary   Clinton’’s State Department.  ’ ’   Trump called for Kennedy’’s resignation in October, after  that Kennedy was being accused   of pressuring the FBI to downgrade Clinton’’s   ”classified” emails during their investigation of her private   email server. In exchange, the agent asserted, Kennedy said he   would allow ’ ’ of   ”trying to cover up Hillary’’s crimes of sending classified   information on a server our enemies could easily access.” ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’This will be a big problem if it’s   replicated in the intelligence agencies, where leaks [from those   who resign] would be damaging not just to Trump, but the American   national interest more broadly.” ’