’  ’ ”   Congressional leaders are unloading on President Donald Trump’s    as a means of boosting   national security. ” ’   ”Tears are running down the cheeks of the Statue of Liberty   tonight,” Sen. Chuck Schumer of New York said on Friday, ”a grand   tradition of America, welcoming immigrants, that has existed   since America was founded, has been stomped upon. ’ ’   House Democratic Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi offered similar   expressions in her own statement: ”As the Statue of Liberty holds   her torch of welcome high, there are tears in her eyes as she   sees how low this Administration has stooped in its callousness   toward mothers and children escaping   Syria.” ’ ’   Sen. Dick Durbin from Illinois said: ”History will judge where   America’s leaders stood today. Faced with the humanitarian crisis   of our time, the United States cannot turn its back on children   fleeing persecution, genocide, and terror.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Noting the significance of the timing of Trump’’s executive order    —   which came down on International Holocaust Remembrance Day  —     Durbin added: ”During the Holocaust we failed to fulfill to our   duty to humanity. We cannot allow mindless fear to lead us into   another regretful chapter in our history.” ’ ’   A key part of the executive order would specifically ban Syrian   refugees from entering the US. Syria has been  since 2011, prompting a refugee crisis   with effects that have been felt throughout Europe. ’ ”   The Trump administration’s measures have been criticized as   antithetical to America’s founding principles. Others have   suggested the executive order’s rules  —   one of which says only   refugees who support the US Constitution may be allowed into the   country  —   are impossible to verify conclusively. ” ’ after it was announced Trump   would move forward with the executive order. ’ ’     “As the Statue of Liberty holds her torch of welcome high,     there are tears in her eyes as she sees how low this     Administration has stooped in its callousness toward mothers     and children escaping   Syria. This Administration has     mistaken cruelty for strength and prejudice for strategy.   ’ ’     As the Chairman of the U. S. Conference of Catholic Bishops’     Committee on Migration said recently of the men, women and     children who seek a better life in America, ‘We remind our     communities and our nation that these families have intrinsic     value as children of God.’ Today’s executive actions dishonor     our values and do not address the threat of terrorism.     Americans of all faiths must confront and reject any attempt to     target for exclusion or discrimination anyone on the basis of     their religion.   ’ ’     House Democrats will continue to demand strong and smart action     to defeat terrorists while protecting religious freedom and     defending our Constitution.”   ’