’    ’ ’  ’ ’ Arne Sorenson is the first   member to run Marriott   International, the largest   hotel chain in the   world. ’ ’ He became president and CEO in March 2012 and led the company   through a $13 billion acquisition of Starwood Hotels &   Resorts in 2016. The company now owns 30 hotel brands with   1. 2 million rooms globally that are available to book. ’ ’ In 2017, Marriott plans to open 500 new hotels. Sorenson   spends around 200 days a year traveling and visiting Marriott   locations. ’ ’ Sorenson sat down with Business Insider at the World Economic   Forum in Davos, Switzerland, and revealed how he plans to compete   with Airbnb, win back millennials, and his best travel hacks. He   also had a few words for President Trump. ’ ’ The following interview has been lightly edited for length   and clarity. The . ’ ’Alyson Shontell: You had an eventful 2016,   starting with a $13 billion purchase of Starwood Hotels. How has   it been merging the companies? ’ ’Arne Sorenson: It was fascinating. We announced   the transaction in November 2015. We got into 2016 hoping to get   to shareholder votes and get to closing and do all the   integration work. ’ ’   We had a Chinese bidder that surfaced in March, so we went   through another round of bidding. Of course, the approval process   ended up taking longer. So we didn’t close until September. ’ ’   We’re now about four months into it and there’s an enormous   amount of work to do. We’re focused on our three communities.   Those are the hotel guests, the associates that work for the   company  —   there are about 650, 000 people who where our hotel   badge every day  —   and our hotel owners. ’ ”   Our business model is to manage for real estate investors. They   want to make sure this is good for their investment. So there’s a   lot of work to do, but so far so good. ” ’  ’ ’Shontell: Another thing you did last year   was travel to Cuba with (former) President Obama. Tell me   about that experience. ’ ”Sorenson: It’s always great to be anywhere near   the president. And it was fun to be in Cuba and to watch that   whole thing unfold. I had been there once before. Cuba itself is   a fascinating destination, particularly for Americans. ” ’   The relationship between the US and Cuba has been so complicated   for so many years that I think many people are intrigued by this   island which is so close to Florida, and they really want to go   and see it. ’ ’  ’ ’   That history makes the transition difficult politically, and made   it interesting economically to watch President Obama there with   the Cuban government, trying to get to know each other and   explore the way the relationship is going to work between the two   countries. ’ ”   We’ve already opened one hotel in Cuba, Four Points by Sheraton,   and we expect we will open another one in early 2017. We’re   talking about another handful of hotels in Cuba after that. ” ’Shontell: How has tourism to your hotel in Cuba   been so far? ’ ”Sorenson: It’s been great. There are not enough   hotel rooms in Cuba to meet the demand.  ” ’Shontell: After the election, . What inspired you to write it, and did he ever   get in touch afterwards?  ’ ’Sorenson: One, I like to write. I had an   hour on a flight one week after the election, and I was   thinking about what was on my mind. ’ ’   On some level, I wanted to share the thinking that I had about   what I would do if I were him. Listening to what happened during   the election, thinking about who his voters were, thinking   about the kind of comments he made. ’ ’   I wanted to address some of the things that were important to   him, but also important to us. Part of that is about the people   who work for Marriott  —   650, 000 globally. They are keenly   interested in the election and the outcome, and they worry about   what the policies will mean for them. To some extent, I can be   their voice. ’ ’  ’ ”   I don’t know Trump. I’ve never met Trump. And I can’t tell you   for certain whether he’s read the letter or not. The letter did   get read quite broadly. ” ”   There were a few messages in it. The first was about   inclusiveness and that we continue to respect a world in which   people are different. People are leading different lives,   they’re from different places and all of them have worth and   value. We have a diverse collection of associates,   and we check in people from all around the world, so that’s   really part of our DNA.  ” ’   Then [I included] some things around travel, policy and tax   reform.  ’ ”Shontell: Let’s discuss some of today’s travel   trends. Airbnb is a ~$19 billion Marriott rival. Millennials like   that they can go to a new place and feel like a local. How are   you dealing with that shift, and how do you win millennials   back? ” ”Sorenson: Airbnb has grown quickly . .. So far,   the impact of Airbnb has not been profound to our business. I   won’t say it’s zero because there is probably an impact. But it   has not been as significant as you might think given how quickly   it has grown.  ” ’   In many respects, they are selling a different product. At least   in the first phase of its business it was different. It was home   sharing, literally an extra bedroom or an extra couch.  ’ ”   The other thing it offers, which is attractive to many, is it can   be cheaper. So partly it’s the shared economy and the different   experience, and partly it’s a pure cost issue. Both are areas   where we need to compete. ” ”   We have never been the cheapest room in a market. We don’t aspire   to be. So how do you not be the cheapest? That’s around product   quality, service and location, and we’ll continue to do those   things. ” ’  ’ ’   When it gets to experiences in the shared economy, we have   already been doing stuff in that space where, through a   concierge, we help arrange local experiences. We have   advantages because we have a community [at our hotels]. You’’re   not alone in somebody’’s extra bedroom or house that they’’ve left   behind. You’’re around folks you can see in the lobby or at the   bar or restaurant. You can talk to people who are there who   will say, ”Here’’s my favorite restaurant,” or ”What kind of   restaurant do you want to go to?” ”Here’’s the favorite hike I   would encourage you to take.” So I think we can compete extremely   well. ’ ’Shontell: Have you ever tried to buy Airbnb? ’ ’Sorenson: No, we haven’’t. People certainly have   asked, ”Why didn’’t you start Airbnb?” or a version of that. Maybe   we should have. But on one level the answer is simple: In many   markets, the business they’’ve done is illegal. ’ ”   It’s one thing for a startup to enter that space. It’s another   thing for an established company that intends to comply with   laws to come in and start a venture that actually doesn’t   comply. I think the cities would respond differently to an   established company like Marriott than they would to a startup. ” ”Shontell: You’re on the road about 200 days   a year. What tips do you have for traveling like a pro?  ” ”Sorenson: I’ve got lots of tricks. I never check   a bag. I still read paper, which is a bit of an unusual thing   although some of the news I get by tablet. But an awful lot of   the books I read (and I read a lot) I carry paper. So I’ve got a   full brief case, and a wheelie   bag that I carry   as my suitcase when I’m gone for a week or two. ” ’ ’ ”   I have different routines around sleep on flights depending on   where I’m going. If I’m going to Europe, which is typically an   overnight flight, I’ll have a bite to eat and then immediately go   to sleep. When I go to Asia, typically you’re landing at night   time. I try to stay awake the full 13 or 14 hour flight over, so   that by the time I get there, I’m exhausted enough to get a great   night sleep. ” ”   Exercise is hugely important, particularly when you travel. I   will hit the gym or run outside. Running is what I’ve always   done. It’s also the quickest and you need the least gear for   it.  ” ”   I love to first open all the curtains in the hotel room when I   walk in, including at night and in cities. Getting the natural   light, particularly when you’re in a different time zone, is   really important, as is getting immediately on that schedule as   opposed to giving into the exhaustion. ” ’Shontell: What are   secrets about   hotels? Any tips for getting upgrades or freebies? ’ ”Sorenson: They’re not secrets, but the loyalty   programs are huge. We’ve got Marriott Rewards and SPG. When we   closed the transaction, we allowed customers to link their   accounts and have their elite status matched between the two and   trade points from one program to the other.  ” ”   If you’re in the loyalty program, you’re going to pay no more   and  —   in many instances  —   less for your room than you   would pay through any other channel. You’ll get free wifi, room   upgrades and other benefits. ” ’   It costs nothing to join a loyalty program. And it is the best   way, on a regular basis, to be treated as well as you can be   treated. ’ ”Shontell: So there’s no code word you can say   that will trigger an upgrade? ” ”Sorenson: There’s no code word. But I think a   lot of our loyalty members like to still check in at the front   desk because they’re hoping they haven’t heard about an upgrade   before they’ve gotten there, or there will be a suite that didn’t   sell that night. ” ”   It’s always useful to be kind. We want our people to be kind to   all our guests. But human beings are creatures of human nature,   and we all respond better to a smile than to anything else.   Friendliness at the the front desk is always a useful thing for a   guest. ” ”Shontell: Let’s move on to plans for the future   for Marriott. What does 2017 look like for you? ” ’    ’ ’   Sorenson: We have about 1. 2 million hotel rooms open and   about 425, 000 in development. In 2017, we will open close to 500   hotels  —   so more than one a day around the world. ’ ’   Every new hotel opening is an exciting time because there are new   jobs that get created with a new virtual community. ’ ”   We also have to make sure we make good progress on the Starwood   and Marriott integration. That’s about technology, approaches we   take to business, and our leadership teams around the world. ” ”   Beyond that, the intersection of technology and travel [will be a   focus]. That’s going to be around helping customers use   technology which is intuitive and simple to plan and share their   trips. ” ’Shontell: Of all the 500 hotels opening, which   are you most excited about? Which one should we be clamoring   to check out? ’ ”Sorenson: We opened a Marriott in Rwanda   late in 2016. It’s the first hotel of any of our brands we have   there. ” ”   Twenty years ago, Rwanda suffered one of the worst genocides the   modern era has seen. One million people were killed in 90 days.   To go to a place like that and see associates working in the   hotel, virtually all of whom had been impacted by that event,   with a regular job that’s transformative to their lives, and   with an optimism about welcoming people to Rwanda  —   those are the   kinds of experiences and openings which are really inspiring to   me. ” ”Shontell: Is there a destination in America   and even globally that’s really hot right now? ” ’Sorenson: Cuba for Americans is a really   appealing destination. It obviously has warm weather, but   people want to see Havana and they want to see the architecture. ’ ’  ’ ”   The Chinese are increasingly drawn to Japan. To Tokyo, to Kyoto   and to a number of the different markets. Japan is beautiful,   it’s close for them and the food is exquisite. So you see the   visits from China to Japan increasing very, very   significantly.  ” ”   We shouldn’t forget that there are some global destinations that   are extraordinarily attractive: Paris, London, New York, San   Francisco, Rio. These are cities that people all around the world   have heard of and they want to go to those places.  ” ’Shontell: Looking beyond 2017, what will the   future of travel look like? ’ ”Sorenson: The numbers that are top of mind   for me: There were about 1. 2 billion international trips last   year. We think that will grow to 2 billion in the next decade or   so. Our estimates are that a job will be created for every 30   trips. That’s 25 to 30 million new jobs in the travel growth   space alone.  ”