’’ ’Sears is laying off Kmart workers in an apparent move to cut costs as the company struggles to stay afloat. ’ ’The layoffs, executed last week, targeted   workers, including assistant managers and department heads  —   or ”leads” as Kmart calls them  —   across the country.’ ’  workers are salaried with benefits, which makes them more expensive to employ than   workers.’ ’Sears, which owns Kmart, confirmed the layoffs to Business Insider. ’ ’”’ ’Riefs declined to reveal how many workers were laid off in total. He said some stores wouldn’’t be affected by the cuts. ”S’ ”According to information from two store workers who spoke to Business Insider on the condition of anonymity, the cuts affected most of Kmart’s 800 stores. ” ’Among the positions cut were assistant store managers,   leads (managers in charge of the   part of the store) backroom leads (managers in charge of unloading and organizing merchandise in the stock room) and pricing leads (managers in charge of pricing and store signage).’ ’On message boards, employees claim the cuts are leaving stores with a skeletal staff. The company is pitching the cuts to employees as part of a strategy called ”simple stores” that involves bypassing the stock room and moving all incoming merchandise right to the shelves.’ ’At the Kmart store in Rochester, New Hampshire, the strategy has led to an accumulation of boxes on the store floor, according to photographs provided to Business Insider.’ ’The photographs were taken on Thursday, and the store has looked like this for nearly two weeks, according to the source, who asked to remain anonymous.’ ’A sign on the boxes reads, ”Pardon our dust! We are in the process of transitioning the sales floor to a new look. ”’ ’The layoffs come as Sears looks for ways to cut costs as its debt load balloons and sales continue to decline.’ ’  sales at Sears and Kmart stores fell by more than 12% during the   holiday season.’ ’Sears CEO Eddie Lampert recently agreed to provide up to $1 billion in financing through his hedge fund, ESL Investments, to keep the company afloat in the near term.’ ’But the credit ratings agency  Sears still may not have enough cash to make it through the upcoming fiscal year, which begins next week. ’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’Do you work at Sears or Kmart and have a story to tell? If so, get in touch with this reporter directly at ’