’’ ”Luminaries of the tech industry have voiced concern, sharp criticism, and calls for unity in the wake of President Trump’s unprecedented executive order barring refugees from entering the US.” ”Over the weekend, CEOs of companies like Google, Apple, Facebook, and Airbnb shared their   opposition to Trump’s order, which bans people from seven predominantly Muslim countries from entering the US for 90 days and the admission of all refugees for 120 days.” ”Some companies, such as   app Lyft, pledged large donations to the The American Civil Liberties Union for its legal work in challenging Trump’s order. Many said they would offer free legal assistance to employees affected by the ban.” ”Here are the reactions to Trump’s executive order on immigration from the biggest names in tech:” ’”Like many of you, I’’m concerned about the impact of the recent executive orders signed by President Trump,” Zuckerberg said in a Facebook post on Friday.’ ’He said he remained optimistic about Trump’’s vague commitment to protecting ”Dreamer” immigrants who were brought into the US at a young age from deportation.’ ’’ ’”We’re upset about the impact of this order and any proposals that could impose restrictions on Googlers and their families, or that could create barriers to bringing great talent to the US,” Pichai wrote in a   email.’ ’”It’s painful to see the personal cost of this executive order on our colleagues. ”’ ’’ ’”I’’m here because I’’m a refugee,” .’ ’”We believe that immigration laws can and should protect the public without sacrificing people’s freedom of expression or religion,” Smith wrote.’ ’CEO Satya Nadella, who was born in India, also said that he’’d ”seen the positive impact that immigration has on our company, for the country, and for the world” in a preface to the  . ’ ’’ ”Cook took a hard stance against Trump’s executive order in an email to Apple employees on Saturday.” ’”I’’ve heard from many of you who are deeply concerned about the executive order issued yesterday restricting immigration from seven   countries,” he said. ”I share your concerns. It is not a policy we support. ”’ ’Cook added that Apple was ready to provide legal assistance to any employees affected by the order.’ ’’ ”As part of Trump’s business advisory committee, Kalanick has drawn criticism  and  for his ties to the administration.” ’”While every government has their own immigration controls, allowing people from all around the world to come here and make America their home has largely been the US’s policy since its founding,” Kalanick wrote in a   email Saturday. Kalanick said he would raise the issue with Trump ”this coming Friday when I go to Washington for President Trump’s first business advisory group meeting. ”’ ’On Sunday, Uber followed up with a second release, pledging to provide legal support for Uber drivers, compensate drivers for lost earnings, create a $3 million legal defense fund for drivers and translation services, and to ”urge the government to reinstate the right of US residents to travel.’ ’Uber’’s decision to service rides during a related taxi strike at the JFK airport on Saturday night caused  and the hashtag ”#DeleteUber” briefly became a trending topic on Twitter.’ ’’ ’”We stand firmly against these actions, and will not be silent on issues that threaten the values of our community,” Lyft cofounders John Zimmer and Logan Green said in a letter to customers.’ ’”We know this directly impacts many of our community members, their families, and friends. We stand with you, and are donating $1, 000, 000 over the next four years to the ACLU to defend our constitution. We ask that you continue to be there for each other   and together, continue proving the power of community. ”’ ’”Trump’’s actions are hurting Netflix employees around the world, and are so   it pains us all,” he wrote in  Saturday. ”Worse, these actions will make America less safe (through hatred and loss of allies) rather than more safe. A very sad week, and more to come with the lives of over 600, 000 Dreamers here in a America under imminent threat. It is time to link arms together to protect American values of freedom and opportunity. ”’ ’In a  on Saturday, Chesky said Airbnb would provide ”free housing to refugees and anyone not allowed in the US. ”’ ’”Not allowing countries or refugees into America is not right, and we must stand with those who are affected,” he continued. ”Open doors brings all of US together. Closing doors further divides US. Let’’s all find ways to connect people, not separate them. ”’ ’In  Chesky said that Trump’’s order is ”a policy I profoundly disagree with and it is a direct obstacle to our mission at Airbnb. ”’ ’Musk, who sits on Trump’’s economic advisory team,  saying that Trump’’s immigration order ”is not the best way to address the country’s challenges,” adding that it was affecting those who have done nothing wrong and ”don’’t deserve to be rejected. ”’ ’ from the company’’s official account, a Twitter spokesperson added, ”Twitter is built by immigrants of all religions. We stand for and with them, always. ”’ ’Dorsey, who is also the CEO of payments company Square,  that ”11% of Syrian immigrants to the US are business owners, more than triple that of   business owners. ”’ ”Twitter has said in the past that it would ban Trump’s account on the service if he violated its hate speech policies, and  to enact a ban because of Trump’s comments on immigrants.” ’”This administration has already shown that they are not particularly impressed by the first amendment, and that they are interested in other   action,” he . ”So we must object, or our inaction will send a message that the administration can continue to take away our rights. ”’ ’”From the very beginning, Amazon has been committed to equal rights, tolerance and diversity —  and we always will be,” Amazon VP of HR Beth Galatti wrote in the memo, a copy of which was obtained by Business Insider. ”As we’ve grown the company, we’ve worked hard to attract talented people from all over the world, and we believe this is one of the things that makes Amazon great —  a diverse workforce helps us build better products for customers. ”’ ’In  cloud storage company Box’’s CEO Aaron Levie condemned Trump’’s order as ”completely antithetical to the principles of America. ”’ ’”Executive orders affecting world’’s most vulnerable are ” . ”Dropbox embraces people from all countries and faiths. ”’ ’Sacca personally  donations on Twitter up to $75, 000, then doubled his match and gave $150, 000. Nest founder and former Apple executive Tony Fadell  to matching donations up to $100, 000.’ ’”When we close our hearts & stop loving other people as ourselves (MK 12:31) we forget who we truly     light unto the nations,” .’ ’”Trump’’s stated immigration policies would be economically damaging and will in time be seen as morally wrong,” . Stripe allows business to accept payments from anywhere in the world.’ ’”Peter doesn’’t support a religious test, and the administration has not imposed one,” a spokesperson for Thiel .’ ’Thiel immigrated to the US from Germany in the 1970s and has already facilitated meetings between Trump and top leaders in the tech industry.’