’  ’ ”   President Donald Trump  that removed the   nation’s top military and intelligence advisers as regular   attendees of the National Security Council’s Principals   Committee, the interagency forum that deals with policy issues   affecting national security. ” ’   The executive measure established Trump’’s chief strategist Steve   Bannon as a regular attendee, whereas the chairman of the Joint   Chiefs of Staff and the Director of National Intelligence will be   allowed to participate only ”where issues pertaining to their   responsibilities and expertise are to be discussed.” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   John Bellinger, an adjunct senior fellow in International and   National Security Law at the Council on Foreign Relations and   former l,  that the change   is  ’ ’   ”In the Bush administration, Karl Rove would not attend NSC   meetings,” Bellinger said. ” former Chief   of Staff Josh Bolten ’ ’   With his permanent seat at the NSC meetings, Bannon has been   elevated above the director of the CIA, Mike Pompeo, who was not   offered an open invitation. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   CNN national security correspondent Jim Sciutto noted on Sunday   that the move was ”certainly unprecedented.” ’ ’   ”You’’re putting in someone who is not Senate confirmed and taking   out  who need to be Senate confirmed,” Sciutto   told CNN’’s Jake Tapper. ”It raises questions about whose voices   will be most prominent about key   decisions in   the country.” ’ ’   Former Secretary of Defense Bob Gates  that sidelining the DNI and the   Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff was ”a big mistake.” ’ ’   ”Adding people to the NSC never really bothers me,” Gates said,   referring to Bannon’’s new role on the committee. ”My biggest   concern is that, under law, there are only two statutory advisers   to the National Security Council  —   the DNI, and the Chairman of   the Joint Chiefs of Staff.” ’ ’   ”Pushing them out,” Gates said, is ”a big mistake. They both   bring perspective, judgment, and experience to bear that every   president  —   whether they like it or not  —   finds useful.” ’ ’  ’ ”   Jared Kushner is Trump’s    and senior adviser. Priebus   is Trump’s chief of staff. ” ’   ”Bannon has been working on the   strategic vision that   will shape the Trump administration’s overall foreign policy   approach,” Rogin  He ”is committed   to working on the buildup of the military and is also interested   in connecting the Trump apparatus to leaders of populist   movements around the world, especially in Europe.” ’ ’   Prior to joining the Trump campaign, Bannon was the   —   a website known for   its antiestablishment,   positions on issues such   as immigration and trade. A week into his presidency, Trump has   already prioritized a number of agenda items that reflect   Bannon’’s own nationalist views, including a border wall and a   crackdown on immigration and refugee admissions. He also  Bannon’’s ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   They will be ”fighting for influence in a team of strong   personalities who are busily carving up issues, making plans and   nurturing already close relationships” with Trump, Rogin wrote,   referring to Bannon, Kushner, and Priebus. ’ ’   The secretary of energy and director of the Office of Management   and Budget  from the committee’’s list of ”regular members,”   and the deputy secretary of state will no longer be invited to   every committee meeting. The chair of the Council of Economic   Advisers will not be invited even ”when issues to be discussed   pertain to their responsibilities and expertise.” ’ ’   Trump already seems to be marginalizing the influence of career   officials with extensive federal experience at the Department of   Homeland Security (DHS) the State Department, the Department of   Defense (DoD) and the Justice Department. ’ ’   On Saturday, former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani told Fox   that he helped draft Trump’’s ”extreme vetting” executive order   after Trump called him and asked  Officials told CNN that   the order was a unilateral move. ’ ’  ’ ’   After seeing the order, the DHS interpreted it to mean that green   card holders from the banned countries  —   who have already been   subjected to intense vetting  —   would be allowed to reenter the US   from trips abroad. But that interpretation was overruled by the   White House, which later said that green card holders would be   allowed in only on a ”  ” basis. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   As a result, the order was imprecise and open to interpretation  —     and legal challenges. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”The president has created a   environment for   litigation” with the order, Wittes . ’ ’   Lawyers and   organizations were already challenging   the constitutionality of the ban hours after it was signed,   arguing that the ban violates the Establishment Clause of the   First Amendment by ”explicitly disapproving of one religion and   implicitly preferring others.” ’ ’   Lawyers representing two Iraqi refugees who were detained at John   F. Kennedy airport in New York  to the order, and a federal judge in   Brooklyn issued  Saturday evening to stay the continued   deportation of travelers. ’ ’   The ruling, a temporary emergency stay, now allows those who   landed in the US and hold a valid visa to remain.  ’