’  ’ ’   Billionaire business mogul Mark Cuban  that President Donald Trump   needed to communicate more with the American people who disagreed   with him or risk becoming ”more and more divisive.” ’ ’   Cuban, who has expressed dismay at times with the president on   Twitter, explained what concerned him most about Trump,   criticizing him for using Twitter as a main tool of communication   with the general public. ’ ’   ”The reality is, what, 15% of Americans are on Twitter?” he said.   ”So it’’s the media that really communicates with most of us. And   if you have all these technology tools available, why not use   them? Why not go on, give an   analysis or details of why   you want to do or why you’’re doing what you’’re doing. We’’re just   not seeing any of that, and that’’s what concerns me more than   anything.” ’ ’   Cuban, the owner of the NBA’’s Dallas Mavericks and star of ABC’’s   ”Shark Tank” who was also a prominent surrogate for Democrat   Hillary Clinton during the 2016 presidential campaign, spoke with   CNBC after a weekend in which  executive   order temporarily banning travel and refugee resettlement from   seven   countries. ’ ’   The order was met with backlash by many business leaders and   politicians, and it led to mass chaos at airports and nationwide   protests. ’ ’   ”Everything seems rushed,” Cuban said, adding: ”Everybody wants   to be safe. If he’’s going to keep us safe, why did he leave so   many countries that host terrorism off the list? He was very   clear during the campaign that ISIS was everywhere. So if we’’re   trying to stay safe, why leave it off? Maybe he’’s got a good   reason for it, but he’’s not communicating that to any of us.” ’ ’   ”’’Make America Safe Again’’ sounds really, really good if you’’re   trying to raise money for a deal,” he later continued. ”It   doesn’’t sound really good when it’’s obvious that a significant   portion of the country doesn’’t understand it or doesn’’t agree   with it.” ’ ’   Circling back to Twitter, Cuban called Trump’’s tweets   ”ridiculous” but said he was ”glad” Trump ”does them” because ”it   gives us a window into how he thinks.” ’ ’   ”Part of the bigger problem with Donald Trump is, when you sit   and talk to him    he’’s reasonable, he comes across as   caring, he’’s   but then all of that just is thrown out   the window when he tweets and when he communicates with the media   and when he communicates at all,” he said. ’ ’   Cuban said Twitter was ”not the real world” and he was ”torched”   on the social network when he spoke in favor of Clinton. He added   that Twitter had changed considerably since Trump was elected and   that, while he had hoped for Clinton’’s victory, he wanted Trump   to succeed. ’ ’   ”Those days are gone, he’’s our president,” he said. ”He’’s most   likely the president for the next four years.” ’ ’ ’