’  ’ ’   White House press secretary Sean Spicer on Monday slammed reports   about President Donald Trump reorganizing the National Security   Council. ’ ”   Spicer defended Trump’s decision to sign a  that removed the nation’s top   military and intelligence advisers as regular attendees of the   NSC’s principals committee, the interagency forum that deals with   policy issues affecting national security. ” ’   The executive measure established Trump’’s chief strategist, Steve   Bannon, as a regular attendee, whereas the chairman of the Joint   Chiefs of Staff and the director of national intelligence would   be encouraged to participate only ”where issues pertaining to   their responsibilities and expertise are to be discussed.” ’ ’   Spicer insisted that Gen. Joe Dunford, the chairman of the Joint   Chiefs of Staff, and the director of national intelligence would   be able to attend principals committee meetings. ’ ’   ”There’’s been a lot of misreporting this week about what this   memo does and does not do, so let me walk you through this real   quick,” Spicer said. ’ ’’ ’   ”The principals committee is merely the NSC minus the president,”   Spicer said. ”The idea that the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of   Staff and the DNI are being downgraded or removed is utter   nonsense. ’ ’   ”They are at every NSC meeting and are welcome to attend the   principals meetings as well. To be clear, the memo lays out that   if there’’s a principals meeting that is outside their scope  —   for   example, a domestic issue that doesn’’t pertain to the military  —     they’’re not required but certainly welcome to be in attendance.   We recognize that certain homeland security issues may not be   military issues, and it would not be in the best interest of the   Joint Chiefs’’ valuable time to be at these meetings.” ’ ”   The White House press secretary compared Trump’s recent memo with   those from 2001 and 2009. ” ’   ”The makeup of the principals committee from 2017 is exactly as   it was” in 2001, Spicer said. ’ ’   ”The president holds Chairman Dunford in the highest regard,”   Spicer continued. ”The suggestion that he would downgrade the   important role that the chairman plays in matters of national   security reveals a fundamental misunderstanding of the tremendous   respect that the president holds for both the chairman himself   and the Joint Chiefs as a whole.” ’ ’   Spicer also took on President Barack Obama’’s national security   adviser, Susan Rice, who : ”Chairman of Joint Chiefs and DNI treated as after   thoughts in Cabinet level principals meetings. And where is CIA??   Cut out of everything?” ’ ’   Spicer said: ”I know someone tweeted out, ’’Where was the CIA in   this? ’’ The CIA hasn’’t been part of the NSC since the DNI was   sworn in for the first time in 2005.” ’ ”   He held up a printout of Rice’s tweet. ” ’   ”I’’d like to remind the former national security adviser that   when the memo was drafted in 2009, I don’’t see the Obama   administration including the CIA in theirs,” Spicer said. He also   announced that Trump would add the CIA director to the NSC. ’