ST. PAUL  —   A dashiki. A   trench coat. A sequined slip dress. A velvet blazer. Shirts, scarves and necklaces. Football jerseys, neckties, boas and silk robes. Hair dye and wigs. Nail polish and eye shadow and lipstick. Purple popped up in all sorts of places at the Xcel Energy Center here Thursday night, on Prince loyalists who had come from all over the city and all over the world for “The Official Prince Tribute Concert,” envisioned by his estate as a grand celebration of the legacy of a transformative rock and pop icon, who died April 21 of an accidental overdose of painkillers. Here, just next to Minneapolis, the city he honed his skills in and never strayed far from  —   his residential and recording complex, Paisley Park, is in nearby Chanhassen and is being converted into a museum  —   he is a god, and also a local kid done good. He is so much a part of the area’s fabric that it made utter sense that almost everyone in the   crowd of 17, 000 was keen to show off a little bit of inner Prince. That strong sense of ownership also highlighted the tension that underscored this decidedly uneven concert, and eventually almost undermined it  —   between Prince as a local hero and Prince as a global superstar. Judging by the execution of the concert, hometown Prince was the clear victor, or at least the more achievable inspiration. For almost five hours, the New Power Generation  —   one of Prince’s   backing bands  —   held steady court while several Prince collaborators known best to intimates and committed fans, and a handful of more widely known performers, including Stevie Wonder and Chaka Khan, celebrated Prince with covers of his songs. But when this concert was originally announced in July, it was scheduled for U. S. Bank Stadium, a football arena three times the size of the Xcel Energy Center. It also promised to emphasize Prince’s vast influence in the pop mainstream with performances by more contemporary stars like Christina Aguilera and John Mayer. But both of them withdrew from the downsized show this week under dubious circumstances. What remained was haphazard and inconsistent, a concert that told no coherent story about Prince apart from the fact that he was widely admired and almost impossible to emulate. Some gamely tried: Luke James, whose falsetto on “Do Me, Baby” attracted the first lusty shrieks of the night, and Bilal, the most impressive male singer here not named Stevie, who woke up   of the way through “The Beautiful Ones” and kept putting his limber voice to work through “If I Was Your Girlfriend” (though his performance couldn’t hold a candle to his riveting Prince tribute at the BET Awards in June). A pair of vocally ambitious young female soul singers, Tori Kelly and Jessie J, tried for similar energy. There is something tepid about Ms. Kelly’s brilliance  —   it’s familiar in shape but has no flash. And Jessie J is all pyrotechnics and no depth. Neither fared well here. Ms. Kelly’s “Let’s Get Crazy” was stagnant, and she wilted on “Take Me With U,” a duet with Mr. Wonder. The Portuguese fado singer Ana Moura played a perplexing set, including a version of “Little Red Corvette” that overlooked many of the words. Early in the night came a baffling appearance by Nicole Scherzinger, former lead singer of the Pussycat Dolls, though it was less arbitrary than the repeated bits throughout the concert of Doug E. Fresh, the 1980s   beatboxer who had little in common with anyone else onstage. Even Chaka Khan felt unmoored, singing her own “Sweet Thing” and Prince’s “1999” with the same misty approach. Everyone’s set was brief  —   sometimes mercifully, often frustratingly. The show opened with two excellent Minneapolis stalwart bands: Mint Condition, inheritors of the Prince sound, and Morris Day  the Time, Prince collaborators and antagonists (who were to perform a   show at the storied Minneapolis club First Avenue later in the night). Both were gone too soon. Much of the heavy lifting fell to elders: Mr. Wonder, wearing a purple shirt and a purple kerchief in his blazer, who performed a gobsmacking version of Donny Hathaway’s “Someday We’ll All Be Free,” and later was visibly weeping during the “Purple Rain” encore. And the extremely spry André Cymone, a teenage friend and bandmate of Prince’s who was the most visible performer here, with strong versions of “Uptown,” “Controversy” and “The Ladder,” a duet with Cassandra O’Neal. (His guitar playing was much louder and more dexterous than his singing, though.) Mr. Cymone was one of several standouts from Prince’s extended orbit  —   others included Judith Hill (on “How Come U Don’t Call Me Anymore? ”) Liv Warfield (on “Hot Thing”) and Saeeda Wright (on “7”)  —   performers who reinforced the image of Prince as progenitor of a whole city’s worth of sounds. Even though the gaps between these moments and the rest of the show were large, the concert had a steady consistency throughout  —   onstage, Minneapolis was claiming its son, and in the audience, locals were grieving the loss of a neighbor.