”   Flying on a plane is generally an awful experience, but next time   you’re crammed in the middle seat counting down the hours, be   thankful there aren’t 80 birds perched in coach with you. ” ’   An image is going viral on  of a Saudi prince who brought 80   birds on a plane Monday morning: ’ ’  ’ ”   We’ve reached out to the author of the Reddit thread about the   photo and will update the post if we learn anything else about   which airline accommodated the birds, how long it took to situate   them, and generally how   they were on the flight. ” ”   The author of the Reddit thread says the birds are hawks, but   it’s more likely they are actually falcons. ” ’   Transporting falcons in the Middle East is actually a pretty   common practice. Falconry (training birds to hunt) has been   practiced in the Middle East for thousands of years and is still   a popular past time in the United Arab of Emirates.  ’ ’’ ”   The falcon is also the national bird of the UAE, so it makes   sense airlines flying out of there would accommodate the birds’   transit needs. ” ’   A Reddit user pointed us in the direction of a very helpful    article that says falcons can   get their own forest green passports to fly in the United Arab   Emirates. That passport allows the falcons to travel   to Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Pakistan,   Morocco, and Syria.  ’ ’   The passport is valid for three years, according to the United   Arab Emirates . ’ ”   A spokesperson for the airline Flydubai told Frank Kane, a   reporter for UAE news website  that falcons must have their   own seat and are placed on a cloth to avoid accidents.   Kane said the business class cabin was entirely   reserved for falcons on his Flydubai flight, so this isn’t as   rare of an occurrence as we may think. ” ’   Qatar Airways wrote on its  that you can bring a maximum of 6   falcons in economy class. ’ ’   Etihad Airways also allows falcons on its planes.  ’ ’   ”We accept the carriage of falcons in the main aircraft cabin   provided that all the necessary documents have been obtained. We   also accept falcons as checked baggage,” Etihad writes on its   . ’ ”   An Etihad spokesperson told Business Insider that, based on the   cabin and flight crew uniforms, it’s unlikely the photo was taken   on one of the airline’s planes. ” ”   So if you’re looking to transport a falcon in the near future, it   may not be as hard as you think  —   depending on where you’re   going, of course. ”