’  ’ ”   Americans are sharply divided over President Donald Trump’s order   to temporarily block U. S. entry for all refugees and citizens of   seven Muslim countries, with slightly more approving the measure   than disapproving, according to a   opinion poll   released on Tuesday. ” ’   The Jan.   poll found that 49 percent of American adults said   they either ”strongly” or ”somewhat” agreed with Trump’’s order,   while 41 percent ”strongly” or ”somewhat” disagreed and another   10 percent said they don’’t know. ’ ’   But the responses were split almost entirely along party lines.   Some 53 percent of Democrats said they ”strongly disagree” with   Trump’’s action while 51 percent of Republicans said they   ”strongly agree.” ’ ”   Trump’s executive order banned refugees from entering the United   States for 120 days, and it placed an indefinite hold on Syrian   refugees. It also blocked citizens from Iran, Iraq, Libya,   Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen. ” ’   The president, who campaigned on a promise to bring what he   called ”extreme vetting” to the nation’’s immigration system, said   the order he signed on Friday was meant to protect the country   and its borders. ”This is not a Muslim ban,” he said. ’ ”   But confusion over who was covered by Trump’s order left   travelers, airlines and foreign governments scrambling to get   clarity from U. S. officials, many of whom were also bewildered. ” ’   The   poll found 31 percent of Americans feel ”more   safe” because of the ban, compared with 26 percent who said they   felt ”less safe.” Some 38 percent said they felt the United   States was setting ”a good example” of how best to confront   terrorism, while 41 percent said the country was setting ”a bad   example.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Democrats were more than three times as likely as Republicans to   say that the ”U. S. should continue to take in immigrants and   refugees,” and Republicans were more than three times as likely   as Democrats to agree that ”banning people from Muslim countries   is necessary to prevent terrorism.” ’ ’   Most Americans, however, don’’t think the country should show a   preference for Christian refugees, as Trump has suggested. Some   56 percent, including 72 percent of Democrats and 45 percent of   Republicans, disagreed that the country should ”welcome Christian   refugees, but not Muslim ones.” ’ ”   At the weekend, protesters swarmed major U. S. airports where some   immigrants had been temporarily detained because of the order.   Lawmakers, including some from Trump’s Republican Party,   denounced the decision as discriminatory and counterproductive   for national security. ” ’   More than a dozen state attorneys general said they would work   together to fight the order, and the top federal government   lawyer, Sally Yates, was fired after she refused to defend it. ’ ’   The   poll was conducted online in English in all 50   states. It gathered poll responses from 1, 201 people including   453 Democrats and 478 Republicans. It has a credibility interval,   a measure of accuracy, of 3 percentage points for the entire   sample and 5 percentage points for the Democrats and the   Republicans. ’ ’     ’ ’   (Reporting by Chris Kahn, editing by Ross Colvin) ’