’  ’ ’   President Donald Trump reportedly issued a surprise warning to   Israel on Thursday to stop announcing settlements that   ”undermine” his administration’’s efforts to create peace in the   Middle East. ’ ”   A White House official  that Trump is committed to a     solution to the   conflict and that the   White House was surprised by Israel’s announcement   of thousands of new settlement housing units in the   West Bank. ” ’   ”As President Trump has made clear, he is very interested in   reaching a deal that would end the   conflict   and is currently exploring the best means of making progress   toward that goal,” the official reportedly said. ”With that in   mind, we urge all parties to refrain from taking unilateral   actions that could undermine our ability to make progress,   including settlement announcements. The administration needs   to have the chance to fully consult with all parties on the way   forward.” ’ ’   The official, according to the report, also elaborated on the     solution Trump envisions. ’ ’   ”The United States remains committed to advancing a comprehensive     agreement between Israel and the Palestinians that   results in two states living    in peace and security,”   the official told the newspaper. ’ ’’ ’   The White House said in a later statement that it had ”not taken   an official position on settlement activity.” ’ ’   ”While we don’t believe the existence of settlements is an   impediment to peace, the construction of new settlements or the   expansion of existing settlements beyond their current borders   may not be helpful in achieving that goal,” press secretary Sean   Spicer said in a statement. ”As the President has expressed many   times, he hopes to achieve peace throughout the Middle East   region.” ’ ’   Trump was a staunch advocate of Israel during his campaign for   president. In a speech to the American Israel Public Affairs   Committee, Trump said he is a ”true friend” of Israel and   said there is ”no daylight between America and our most reliable   ally the state of Israel.” ’ ’   Trump is scheduled to meet with Prime Minister Benjamin   Netanyahu at the White House on February 15. ’ ’President Donald Trump reportedly issued a. ..’