’  ’ ”   Sen. John McCain of Arizona released a statement Thursday   rebuking President Donald Trump’s contentious phone call . ” ’   During the call, Trump called a refugee agreement with the nation   the ”worst deal ever” and accused Australian Prime Minister   Malcolm Turnbull of trying to send America the ”next Boston   bombers” under a deal to send refugees from Australia to the US. ’ ”   McCain said he called Australia’s ambassador to the US, Joe   Hockey, on Thursday morning to reassure him of US support. ” ’   ”Australia is one of America’’s oldest friends and staunchest   allies,” the senator and 2008 Republican presidential nominee   said in a statement. ”We are united by ties of family and   friendship, mutual interests and common values, and shared   sacrifice in wartime.” ’ ’   The statement continued: ”In that spirit, I called Australia’’s   ambassador to the United States this morning to express my   unwavering support for the   alliance. I asked   Ambassador Hockey to convey to the people of Australia that their   American brothers and sisters value our historic alliance, honor   the sacrifice of the Australians who have served and are serving   by our side, and remain committed to the safer, freer, and better   world that Australia does far more than its fair share to protect   and promote.” ’ ’’ ’   McCain also noted the long history Australia had of aligning with   the US in conflicts including two world wars and conflicts in   Vietnam, Afghanistan, and Iraq. ’ ’   Sen. Lindsey Graham, another Republican, also    on Trump’’s phone call with the Australian prime minister, saying   he wished Trump ”would sleep more and tweet less.” ’ ’   Trump  Wednesday night: ”Do you believe it? The Obama   Administration agreed to take thousands of illegal immigrants   from Australia. Why? I will study this dumb deal!” ’ ’   Trump  during his remarks at the   National Prayer Breakfast on Thursday morning. ’ ’   ”When you hear about the tough phone calls I’’m having, don’’t   worry about it,” Trump said. ”Just don’’t worry about it. They’’re   tough. We have to be tough. It’’s time we’’re gonna be a little   tough, folks. We’’re taken advantage of by every nation in the   world virtually. It’’s not gonna happen anymore.” ’ ’Sen. John McCain of Arizona released a. ..’