’  ’ ”   President Donald Trump’s administration has already had   a massive effect on the Affordable Care Act, the healthcare law   better known as Obamacare. ” ”   In a press release, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid   Services  —   which oversees the ACA’s public insurance exchanges  —     provided its typical biweekly update on the end of   Obamacare’s open enrollment period, which ran from November   1 through January 31. ” ’   The period, during which people without insurance through an   employer or Medicare or Medicaid could sign up for coverage,   ended with 9. 2 million people signed up for plans through the   Healthcare. gov platform, not including   exchanges. ’ ”   What’s most startling, however, is how much the plan selections   slowed after Trump took office. ” ”   According to the previous biweekly update from the Obama   administration, 8. 8 million had signed up through January 14,   meaning roughly 800, 000 people were enrolling weekly. Based on   the updated figures from Trump’s CMS, 200, 000 Americans signed up   for coverage in each of the final two weeks. ” ’’ ’   This also means that enrollment fell by 400, 000 people from the   open enrollment period ending in 2016. For reference, there were   100, 000 more people enrolled than in the previous year at the   last update. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   In addition to a serious   in enrollments, the CMS   update it also signaled a tonal shift in how the government will   talk about the ACA. ’ ’   Typically, the CMS releases have conveyed not only data but   also general support for the law, touting what it has portrayed   as an increase in plan selections from the previous year and   the ability for people to gain access to health coverage easily.   For example, previous emails frequently noted the percentage of   people that could get covered for less than $75 or $100 a month. ’ ’   But in the first communication about the   from the   Trump administration, the tone was drastically different. After   first providing the number of   for plans on   Healthcare. gov, the email immediately pointed to increased   premiums associated with many of the   plans. ’ ’   ” ’ ’  ’ ”President Donald Trump’s. ..”