’  ’ ’   Everyone seems to be talking about a border tax these days  —   but   few people seem to know what they’re talking about. ’ ’   One reason is the neophyte US president’s own mixed message. As   he has done on multiple occasions, President Trump has taken both   sides of this particular issue at various times. ’ ’   On January 16, Trump said he was hesitant to impose a border tax   on imported goods as part of his   push:  ’ ’   ’ ’   So what is a border tax and how exactly would it work? My former   colleagues at the   Peterson Institute for   International Economics just held a conference on the subject   that sheds light on the details of a potential border tax plan  —     and the reviews are not especially positive.  ’ ’’ ’   Putting aside the irony of a Republican president’s first major   economic initiative being a tax increase, the   border   adjustment tax would serve as a way to punish firms for doing   business abroad, even though many US companies depend on such   operations for their profitability. A border adjustment tax works   by ”d ’ ’   The problem, says Adam Posen, a former policymaker at the   Bank of England and president of the Peterson Institute, is that   the  the narrow benefits to   exporters, who are now lobbying favor of Trump’s proposed   tax.  ’ ”   “From a macro perspective, from a broad tax perspective, the   amount of revenue you’re going to get is very low, the amount of   distortions you’re going to create is very high, the amount of   trouble you’re going to create for the US and the world economy   is very large, and the distributional effects are not trivial,”   said Posen. “They’re actually very harmful. ” ” ’   For one thing, the proposal is part of a broader suspicion of   foreign countries that permeates Trump administration   rhetoric and has already unsettled key trading partners like   Mexico and China as well as   ally Australia. This   has a depressing effect on investment as the business outlook   becomes clouded with renewed uncertainty about the future outlook   for taxes and potential tariffs.  ’ ’   The US also faces the risk of retaliation via the World Trade   Organization, which could leave US exporters open to potential   tariff increases from other countries on their products. That   leaves open the risk that a border tax would simply be the    ’ ’Everyone seems to be talking about a border tax. ..’