’  ’ ’   Nikki Haley, the new US ambassador to the United Nations, took   her first turn at the UN Security Council on Thursday and issued   a familiar ring directed at Russia. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ”   Haley’s statement  from the Trump   administration’s rhetoric toward Russia. The Russian aggression   has so far been met with silence by President Donald Trump, who   has throughout his presidential campaign mused about restoring   friendly relations with the nation. ” ’   White House press secretary Sean Spicer said earlier this week   that Trump was ”being kept aware” of the developments in Ukraine   and that t ’ ”   That Trump has demurred from commenting on the Ukraine violence  —     even as he risked  over a border wall and a refugee   agreement  —   likely reflects Trump’s desire to nurture his warming   relationship with Russian President Vladimir Putin. ” ’   But that relationship will be tested as the violence escalates   and calls grow from within his own party to provide Ukraine with   lethal weapons to fend off Russian aggression. ’ ’   In a statement from Belarus on Thursday, Putin seemed to appeal   directly to Trump when he said that Ukraine was only accusing   Russia of reigniting violence because Kiev supported Democratic   nominee Hillary Clinton in the US presidential election and now   needed to ”present itself as a victim of aggression” to gain   sympathy from Trump. ’ ”   In the early stages of his presidential campaign, Trump appeared   sympathetic to Kiev’s battle against separatists armed and funded   by Moscow. He even traveled to Ukraine in September 2015 to speak   at the Yalta European Strategy Annual Meeting  ” ’   But his tone on Ukraine and Crimea appeared to shift after he   hired Paul Manafort to manage his campaign in April 2016, as    has reported. ’ ’   At the end of July, for instance, Trump  that ”the people of Crimea, from what I’’ve heard,   would rather be with Russia than where they were. And you have to   look at that, also.” ’ ’   Days earlier, he had told reporters that he ”would be looking at”   the possibility of lifting sanctions against Russia for its   annexation of Crimea. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   One of the representatives, JD Gordon, has denied intervening in   the process. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”I understood that, yes, Ukraine is a fledgling democracy. There   have been setbacks, there’’s corruption. But they’’re waving their   flag to be free,” Denman said. ”I felt that if Ukraine needed   resources then America should be willing to give them.” ’ ’   Denman’’s original amendment, which was corroborated by a separate   subcommittee member who spoke to Business Insider, called for   ” ’ ’  ’ ’   The amendment seemed consistent with language used by a group of   Republican senators as early as 2014, when many in the GOP were    the Obama administration to send      to the Ukrainian army to fend off Russian aggression. A   bipartisan coalition in Congress  in June 2015, and again 18 months   later. ’ ’  ’ ’   Denman said she read her amendment aloud at the subcommittee   meeting, at which point ”two men sitting over to the side of the   room  —   I had no idea who they were, but later found out they were   Trump representatives  —   jumped up and tore over to get behind the   three  .” ’ ’    ’ ’   ”There was a lot of muted discussion among them,” Denman   recalled, ”and then the men from the campaign approached me and   asked if they could see my plank. So I gave them my copy. They   read it, went back up to the chairmen, and the amendment was   tabled.” ’ ’   Gordon, one of the representatives, then left the room to make a   phone call, Denman said. Equal parts confused and angry over her   proposal being scuttled, Denman said she confronted Gordon about   who he was calling. ’ ’   ”I’’m calling New York,” Gordon  ’ ’   ”I work for Mr. Trump and I have to clear it,” she recalled him   saying, apparently in reference to the amendment. ’ ’   The with a provision to ”provide appropriate   assistance” to the Ukrainian army rather than provide it with   ”lethal defense weapons.” ’ ’   Gordon, in an email, said Denman ”sought to significantly elevate   the   issue beyond the already strong position of   RNC and Trump campaign,” so the language had to be watered down. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”It was controversial if you hold Donald Trump’’s express views on   Russia, but it wasn’’t controversial with regard to GOP orthodoxy   on the issue,” the committee member said. ”This change definitely   came from Trump staffers  —   not from RNC staffers.” ’ ’   Gordon, one of the staffers, denied that. ’ ’   ”To be clear, all the decisions made in the national   security subcommittee of GOP platform week were all made   by people in that Cleveland Convention Center room,” Gordon said   in an email. ”Neither Mr. Trump nor Mr. Manafort were involved in   those sort of details, as they’’ve made clear.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Manafort  —   who served  to a   political party in Ukraine from   2004 to 2012 and helped the   strongman Viktor   Yanukovych win the Ukrainian presidency in 2010  —   has having anything to do with the platform change. ’ ’   But a ’ ’   The dossier also claims Manafort was receiving ”kickback   payments” from Yanukovych’’s associates in Ukraine, where Manafort   ”had been commercially active . .. right up to the time (in March   2016) when he joined campaign team.” ’ ”   Secret ledgers uncovered by an anticorruption center in Kiev and obtained by   The New York Times last year revealed that Yanukovych’s political   party, the   Party of Regions, earmarked $12. 7 million   in undisclosed cash payments to Manafort  —   who claimed he never   collected the money  —   for his work from 2007 to 2012. ” ’   Yanukovych informed Putin of the payments, the dossier states, on   August 15, 2016, after the western media began digging into   Manafort’’s ties to Ukraine. Putin became ”worried” that   Yanukovych had sufficiently ”covered the traces” of Manafort’’s   role as a liaison between the Trump campaign and Russia. ’ ’   For Putin, the dossier states, the money trail ”remained a point   of potential political vulnerability and embarrassment.” ’ ’   Manafort resigned four days later, on August 19. ’ ’Nikki Haley, the new US ambassador to the. ..’