’’ ”Budweiser’s Super Bowl ad has the beer brand in hot water. ” ”On Tuesday, Budweiser released its The   commercial follows     Adolphus Busch’s journey to the US in the   highlighting Busch’s struggles and the prejudice the German immigrant encountered. ” ’”You’’re not wanted here, go back home!” one American yells at Busch as he arrives in New Orleans.’ ”Budweiser has said the commercial was However, many people aren’t buying it. ” ’”I drank your product for 30 years and I will no longer drink it you liberal     heads,” reads one such comment on Budweiser’’s Facebook page. ’ ”  This Bud’ s no longer for me. It is activist juice. ’t’t” ’   screw Budweiser.  You should have learned from the response you got with Amy Schumer. No LEFTY political BS. ’t’t’ ’The Super Bowl commercial dropped at a time when immigration is an especially hot topic in America. In late January, President Donald Trump signed an executive order barring immigrants from seven   countries from entering the US for 90 days  —  ’ ”While Budweiser’s ad was in the works long before Trump was inaugurated, some saw the timing of the commercial’s release as a jab at the president’s executive order. ” ’ ’t’t’t. You conflated the issue of stopping terrorists from infiltrating ”Refugee” programs with legal immigration —  then, Budweiser died. ’t’t’ ’ ’t’t’tNever drinking  you should respect the AMERICAN president instead you mock with liberal propaganda  ’ ”As of Sunday morning, more than 14 million people have watched Budweiser’s ad online, fueling the #BoycottBudweiser and #BoycottBud hashtags. ” ”      Budweiser is a Belgium   Brazilian brewery which no doesn’t reflects Americans.  Drink Samuel Adams! ’t’t” ” ’t’t’tLet’s   ” ’As is often the case with threats of boycott, many people are promising to buy more Budweiser to make up for those who are protesting. ’ ’  not much of a beer drinker, but I will pick some up on the way home. The husband & I will be toasting to you tonight. Great ad! ’t’t’ ’ ’t’t’tPlease everyone buy a case of Budweiser! Trumpkins are boycotting because of super bowl commercial. ’t’t’ ’Ricardo Marques, the vice president of marketing at   InBev, said ’ ”This isn’t the first time Budweiser has been criticized for attempting to tap into the American spirit in advertising.” ’Last May, the brand announced its labels would simply read ”America” for the summer. While the campaign inspired Marques revealed in January that Budweiser would bring back ”America” cans and bottles again in summer 2017. ’ ”Budweiser’s Super Bowl ad has the beer brand in. ..”