’  ’ ’   CNN anchor Jake Tapper opened up ”The Lead” on Monday by   attempting to contextualize President Donald Trump’’s recent   tweets aimed at delegitimizing a federal judge, polling, and the   news media. ’ ”   Tapper targeted three of Trump’s tweets in particular. The first   was from Sunday, following Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals   Judge James Robart  on   Trump’s temporary travel ban from seven     countries. ” ’   It followed up a tweet in which Trump labeled Robart as a   ” ” judge  —   which, as Tapper put it, seemed   to question the judge’’s legitimacy and competency. ’ ’   ”Just cannot believe a judge would put our country in such   peril,” Trump wrote Sunday. ”If something happens, blame him and   court system. People pouring in. Bad!” ’ ’   Tapper then mentioned Trump’’s Monday tweet deeming all negative   polling as ”fake news.”  ’ ’   ”Any negative polls are fake news, just like the CNN, ABC, NBC   polls in the election,” Trump wrote. ”Sorry, people want border   security and extreme vetting.” ’ ”   Tapper highlighted the the tweet’s initial six words. ” ’   ”You got that?” he asked. ”So any polling, suggesting anything   negative about the president or his policies, is not, in his   view, real.” ’ ”   Lastly, he noted Trump’s   tweet, which seemed to be a   response to a New York Times report that Trump  giving his chief strategist, Steve Bannon, a   regular seat on the National Security Council’s Principals   Committee. ” ’   ”I call my own shots, largely based on an accumulation of data,   and everyone knows it,” Trump tweeted. ”Some FAKE NEWS media, in   order to marginalize, lies!” ’ ’   He followed up later on Monday, attacking The Times by claiming   the outlets ”writes total fiction concerning me.” ’ ’   Tapper tried to sum up what it all meant. ’ ’   ”If a judge rules against the president, he’’s a   judge,”   the CNN anchor said. ”If a poll shows that a majority   of you disagree with his policies, the poll is fake. If a     news story reflects something unflattering about   him, that story is fake.” ’ ’   ”So, the judicial branch of government and the free press, two   fundamental pillars of our democracy,” he continued. ”If we take   actions he does not like, we are not legitimate.” ’ ’   Tapper then pointed to Trump’’s   Bowl interview with Fox   News host Bill O’’Reilly. During that interview, O’’Reilly said   Putin was a ”killer” after asking him why he respected the   Russian president. ’ ’   ”Lot of killers,” Trump responded. ”We’’ve got a lot of   killers. What, you think our country is so innocent?” ’ ” Putin has been criticized by   leaders across the aisle  —   who were also quick to condemn Trump’s   remarks  —   for human rights abuses that include the stifling of   freedom of speech and imprisonment of political opponents. A   string of . ” ’   After the clip played. Tapper said: ”So as long as we all know   where we stand, I suppose.” ’ ’ ’ ’.: Any polls suggesting anything negative about the President or his policies is not, in his view, real. ’ ’CNN anchor Jake Tapper opened up ”The Lead” on. ..’