’  ’ ”   CNN on Tuesday rebutted White House press secretary Sean Spicer’s   suggestion that the cable news network had walked back comments   about a top adviser’s credibility. ” ’   The  earlier this week that CNN’’s ”State   of the Union” passed up the opportunity to interview Kellyanne   Conway, a top adviser to President Donald Trump, in part over   ”serious questions about her credibility.” ’ ”   During Tuesday’s press briefing, Spicer said CNN had backed off   its comments on Conway. ” ’   ”My understanding is they retracted that, they’’ve walked that   back or denied it  —   however you want to put it, I don’’t care,”   Spicer told reporters. ”But I think Kellyanne is a very trusted   aide of the president. I think for any characterization otherwise   is insulting.” ’ ’   He continued: ”If they choose not to work with someone, that’’s up   to them, but I think we’’re gonna continue to put out key leaders   to this administration, including Kellyanne, that can articulate   the president’’s policies and agenda.” ’ ’’ ’   But CNN’’s communications team  tweeting shortly after Spicer’’s comments: ”CNN   was clear, on the record, about our concerns about Kellyanne   Conway’’s credibility, to The New York Times and others. We have   not ’’retracted’’ nor ’’walked back’’ those comments. Those are the   facts.” ’ ’   Conway herself denied the Times report in a tweet on Monday,   saying she was unavailable for the CNN interview on Sunday and   was invited to the network on Monday and Tuesday. ’ ’   ”I could do no live Sunday shows this week [because] of family,”   . ”Plus, I was invited onto CNN today & tomorrow.   CNN brass on those emails.” ’ ”   Some  have recently suggested   that networks should not book Conway, saying she  so frequently that networks can’t rely on   her to share accurate information about the administration. ” ”   Conway made headlines last week when she  a nonexistent massacre in Bowling Green,   Kentucky, to justify Trump’s executive order temporarily barring   people from seven   countries from entering the US. ” ’   Amid the back and forth, Conway is set to appear on ”The Lead”   with Jake Tapper on the network later Tuesday. ’ ’ Maxwell Tani contributed to this report. ’ ’CNN on Tuesday rebutted White House press. ..’