’  ’ ”   WASHINGTON (Reuters)   Homeland Security chief John Kelly told a   congressional panel on Tuesday he should have delayed U. S.   President Donald Trump’s travel ban on people from seven     countries and on all refugees so he could brief   Congress on the executive order. ” ’   The temporary ban ignited international protests as the United   States revoked 60, 000 visas and detained some travelers who   landed in the United States unaware the order had been signed   while they were in flight. ’ ’   ”The desire was to get it out quick so that potentially people   that might be coming here to harm us would not take advantage of   some period of time that they could jump on an airplane and get   here,” Kelly told the House of Representatives Committee on   Homeland Security. ’ ’   Kelly took the blame for not briefing Congress on the order   before it was announced late on Jan. 27. ’ ’   ”This is all on me by the way. I should have delayed it just a   bit so that I could talk to members of Congress,” he said. ’ ’   Kelly said the confusion at U. S. airports was caused by court   orders challenging the ban that went out the day after it went   into effect, adding that his team at the Department of Homeland   Security acted swiftly to tweak their operations as necessary. ’ ’   The order was signed also with little or no briefing of U. S.   government agents responsible for implementing it, contributing   to the confusion. There was also no agreement within the   administration for several days over whether green card holders     foreign nationals from the seven targeted countries with   permanent U. S. residency   should be admitted. ’ ’   The White House reversed itself later and said those with green   cards would be granted waivers to enter the country. ’ ’  ’ ’   The ban was suspended by a federal judge last Friday, opening a   window for refugees and citizens from Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia,   Sudan, Syria and Yemen to enter the United States, pending an   appeal by the U. S government. ’ ”   Trump’s executive order temporarily barred travelers from the   seven   countries and all refugees, except refugees   from Syria whom he would ban indefinitely. ” ’   The ban, which Trump says is needed to protect the United States   against Islamist militants, sparked condemnation from critics who   said it was discriminatory against Muslims and questioned its   value as a security measure. ’ ’   All the people who carried out fatal attacks inspired by Islamist   militancy in the United States since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks   were U. S. citizens or legal residents, the New America think tank   says. None came to the United States or were from a family that   emigrated from one of the countries listed in the travel ban, it   said. (http:  . ) ’ ’   The 9th U. S. Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco was due to   hear arguments about whether to restore the ban at 3 p. m. PST. ’ ’  ’ ’   Kelly defended the order, at the hearing, asserting that the   seven countries on the list were known to have inadequate systems   for sharing information with the United States on their   potentially dangerous citizens. ’ ’   He said reports circulated last week that 12 countries could be   added to the travel ban were false, adding that no additional   countries were being considered. ’ ’   Kelly also said that funding to cities that refuse to cooperate   with immigration agents would only be cut on a      basis. ’ ’   Trump had threatened to cut large amounts of federal funding to   about 300   ”sanctuary cities” in order to pressure them   to cooperate in the apprehension and deportation of illegal   immigrants. ’ ”   Kelly said he did not expect to meet Trump’s hiring goals of   5, 000 additional U. S. Customs and Border Protection agents and   10, 000 Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents within two   years. Trump did not specify a timeline when he called for the   hiring in his executive action.  ” ’   (Reporting by Julia Edwards Ainsley, additional reporting by Andy   Sullivan; Editing by Andrew Hay and Howard Goller) ’ ’WASHINGTON (Reuters)   Homeland Security chief. ..’