’  ’ ”   The drug industry’s largest middlemen are starting to attract   scrutiny for their role in drug pricing. Their response: to   come out swinging, and point the finger elsewhere. ” ’   Pharmacy benefit managers are the companies  to the prices drugmakers set, and are   meant to favor the most effective drug. This is meant to help   keep prices low. Many question how effective they are at   doing that, however and  why   prices are skyrocketing. ’ ”   That’s in large part because of the lack of transparency around   what those rebates between PBMs and drugmakers are.  ” ”   Right now, there are three big PBMs that cover most of the   roughly  that were filled in the US in   2015: Express Scripts, CVS Caremark, and OptumRx. On   February 8, the companies’ lobbying group  —   the Pharmaceutical   Care Management Association  —   released a video explaining why it   thinks certain kinds of pricing transparency is good, while other   types are bad.  ” ’   The debate breaks down like this: PBMs negotiate rebates with the   different drugmakers. The terms of these   rebate contracts are variable and secret. The more lives a   PBM covers, the more leverage it tends to have in negotiating   steeper rebates, which is why some PBMs may walk away with   rebates twice as big as those of their competitors. ’ ”   The lack of transparency has its pros and cons. On the one hand,   having these contracts under wraps keeps a drug manufacturer from   knowing what its competitor is getting as a rebate. If it knew,   the company could argue it shouldn’t have to pay a bigger rebate   than the other. ” ”   That’s the same argument the PCMA video makes: that drug   companies would take that rebate information and use it to   collude with competitors.   ” ’   Watch :  ’ ’ ’ ”   But there are some cons to this lack of transparency, too.   Without a clear picture of the rebates, the public’s   understanding of why the prices of prescription drugs continue to   climb is limited to just the price we see at the pharmacy   counter, or data based on the list price. ” ”   Those numbers don’t tell the whole story, however, because they   don’t account for rebates and other discounts that are factored   in, and in the case of the price we see at the pharmacy   counter, we don’t know how big a cut each part of the supply   chain gets. ” ”   It’s something drug companies are starting to tackle, by  after rebates and discounts, which   often paint a much different picture than routinely increasing   list prices. For example, Lilly, which has  told Business Insider    was down 24%   in the   of 2016, from the   of 2015. The   numbers coming out, however, tend to be on average, so the exact   rebate different PBMs are getting is still under wraps. ” ’   Drug companies are still facing the brunt of the   criticism for drug prices from President Donald Trump, who has   called the prices”astronomical,” and supports having Medicare   negotiate drug prices. ’ ’   But PBMs are in focus too. Republican Rep. Doug Collins is one   critic,  ”I truly believe the PBM industry is one of the   most detrimental pieces of health care.” The PBM lobby is   preparing to aggressively argue its point, even in the absence of   a concrete policy agenda from the president. ’ ’   PCMA CEO Mark Merritt said in a memo  that the group made that decision   ”given the political uncertainty, headline risk, and other unique   challenges that come with a President more inclined toward quick,   instinctive action than the traditional, deliberative     process.” ’ ’   And the companies the lobby represents are speaking up as   well.  ’ ’   It remains to be seen where the conversation will go from here,   but as the number of people on high deductible plans facing     prices for drugs  there will   likely be more   to come for the .  ’ ’Pharmacy benefit managers play a critical role. ..’