Released a few days after Halloween in 1976, it’s considered one of the great American horror films. A   hit with two Oscar nominations for acting, it contains one of the genre’s most memorable images and an ending that has been ripped off dozens of times. It also gave a career lift to a young novelist named Stephen King. Yet revisit “Carrie” 40 years later, as you can do on a new   version from Shout! Factory, and you might think, “This . .. is not that scary. ” A high school drama, yes. A resonant look at the emotional damage caused by bullying, yes. But a horror movie? Not so much. “I never really approached it as a horror movie,” said its director, Brian De Palma, who scored his first hit with the film. “It’s more of a character piece. She does go berserk after she gets hit with the bucket of blood, but until then, not really. What made this really good  —   both the book and the film  —   is that it capsulized everyone’s high school experience of being an outsider. ” Mr. King’s first published novel, “Carrie” (1974) focuses on the teenage daughter of a repressed religious mother. She is a loner, a victim of constant mockery and, oh yes, able to move things with her mind. Carrie has her first period in the school shower and is assaulted by classmates. After she goes to the senior prom with one of the most popular boys, then is doused with pig’s blood as a prank, she goes on a telekinetic rampage. Mr. King has written many doorstoppers, but “Carrie” is one of his shortest novels. “It’s really a simple story,” Mr. King said. “And people saw Carrie as an extreme case of what they went through in high school. ” Fresh out of college when he started the book, teaching high school English by day, Mr. King said he understood “it from both sides of the desk. There was a visceral sense that I was writing about something that I understood and felt deeply at the time. ” In the   few had heard of Mr. King, a teacher who had mainly published short stories in men’s magazines. Lawrence D. Cohen, then working for a movie producer in New York, had certainly never heard of him when he first came across the manuscript. He was later hired to write the screenplay after it was optioned by the producer Paul Monash. “I understood why critics were perplexed as to what genre ‘Carrie’ belonged to,” Mr. Cohen said. “Was it a high school movie, a   novel, a horror piece, a psychological thriller?” The film eventually landed at United Artists with Mr. De Palma as director. Holding joint auditions with George Lucas, who was then casting “Star Wars,” Mr. De Palma found a relatively   cast, including John Travolta, Betty Buckley, William Katt, Nancy Allen and Amy Irving. Though written in the novel as a “chunky girl” and a “frog among swans,” the screen Carrie was Sissy Spacek, who had starred in Terrence Malick’s first film, “Badlands” (1973). “The studio didn’t even want me to test Sissy,” Mr. De Palma said of Ms. Spacek, who had come to audition with Vaseline smeared in her hair to look greasy and unglamorous. “It’s probably the part she’ll be best remembered for even though she won an Oscar for another role. ” (Both Ms. Spacek and Piper Laurie, who played her mother, were nominated for “Carrie. ”) After decades of slasher flicks,   films and   movies, it’s surprising to see how much of “Carrie” is a naturalistic, compelling story about high school: shopping for prom clothes, cruising around town, serving detention, dancing first dances together. That bucket of blood doesn’t fall until the last 20 minutes. United Artists considered marketing it as a  . “They wanted to change the title to ‘Pray for Carrie,’ which is a very   title,” Mr. Cohen said. “And they ended up taking out an ad that was a poster of Carrie covered in blood, which was a spoiler before that word was used, but a clear way of selling the movie. I remember looking at it going, ‘They’ve lost their minds they’re giving away the whole movie. ’” In retrospect, the poster is a superb example of Alfred Hitchcock’s explanation of the difference between suspense and surprise  —   knowing a bomb will explode and tensing for it, versus having it blow up with no warning. Bloody Carrie is the bomb the audience saw before the movie even started. One reason “Carrie” is considered such an effective horror movie is its final two minutes, in which Ms. Irving’s good girl, Sue Snell, visits a grave and a hand shoots from the ground, sending audiences from the theater with one more scare. It was the last thing they remembered about the movie and the first thing they told friends. “What the ending did was establish Stephen King as a brand name for horror,” said Mr. Cohen, who also wrote a “Carrie” stage musical and the screenplay for the 2013 movie remake. The success of the original film boosted sales for the novel, and Mr. King’s next novel after the movie, “The Shining,” became his first hardcover best seller, and he was off. But Mr. King has never lost his view of high school as a place like the island in “Lord of the Flies. ” Those   hallways are the true dark corridors, and you don’t need to add too much to make it scarier than it already is. “I tell people, ‘If you look back on high school as the high point of your life,’” you’re one   American, Mr. King said, using rougher language. “Most of us look at high school as something we escaped. ”