’  ’ ’   If you thought the loss Oracle  in its ongoing lawsuit against Google over   Android was the end, think again. ’ ’   As promised, Oracle is appealing the case, and filed its appeal   today. ’ ’   The two tech giants have been battling it out for years in two   separate court cases over whether Google must pay Oracle   billions of dollars for bits of code copied from Java (a   programming language Oracle owns) and used in Android (the   language Google controls). ’ ’   At issue were bits of code called application programming   interfaces (APIs) the technology that allows   different computer programs to talk to each other. ’ ”   While there’s been back and forth over the years, with one side   winning or losing various stages of the fight, the upshot   is, Google has yet to be found liable for paying Oracle for Java,   much less the massive,   dollar fine   Oracle dreams of. ” ’’ ’   In May, the two companies were in court arguing over   what amount, if anything, Google owes after an earlier   trial found that Google did in fact copy some of the Java code. ’ ’   Google argued that the copying fell within the ”fair use”   provision of copyright law, meaning Google was free to use it. A   jury of 10 unanimously agreed with Google. Oracle vowed to   appeal and here we are. ’ ”   In the appeal filing, seen by Business Insider, Oracle argues   that the jury in May didn’t get to hear all of the facts it   wanted to share. Those facts included all the ways it believes   Android harms Java, including how Android might one day usurp   Java’s role in its primary domain, as a language used to create   apps and Web apps for PCs.  ” ”   Oracle’s lawyers argue in the appeal filing: ” ’  ’ ’   Many in the tech industry have been watching this case   closely. Critics argue that a big fine for Oracle could have   a chilling effect on some of the ways that software   developers freely use and share code today. ’ ’   Google is not commenting on the appeal, although it did send   Business Insider its original statement when it won the jury   case in May. ’ ’   ”[The] verdict that Android makes fair use of Java APIs   represents a win for the Android ecosystem, for the Java   programming community, and for software developers who rely on   open and free programming languages to build innovative consumer   products.” ’ ’If you thought the loss Oracle suffered in May. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’