’   Magic Leap, the $4. 5 billion startup backed by Google   building technology that ”augments” human vision with digital   imagery, is scrambling to finish a working prototype  next week. ’ ”   Here is the first public photo of a working prototype   of Magic Leap’s portable augmented reality device, which was   given to Business Insider by a source. ” ’  ’ ’   We attempted to authenticate this information with Magic Leap but   the company declined to comment by time of publication.  ’ ’   This early prototype was described to Business Insider as ”PEQ0.”   PEQ is a term that Magic Leap uses to describe its current   prototype. The photo is what the device looked like as of early   January, and the source said there have been improvements to the   prototype since then. ’ ’   The board will see a carefully planned demo of the ”PEQ” by CEO   Rony Abovitz next week, using equipment that looks more   finished, with belt packs instead of a backpack, the person said. ’ ’’ ”   Abovitz explained a bit about the development process for the   prototype in an email sent to employees. The email was in   response to a December report published by  that called into question whether Magic   Leap’s technology could be sufficiently miniaturized and   commercialized to fulfill the company’s promises. ” ’   Abovitz wrote in the December memo (bolded portion his   own):  ’ ”   As Business Insider  the board meeting next week is seen as a   milestone in the product’s development, and a chance   to prove that Magic Leap can shrink its technology to fit   inside the smaller form factor that will be released to the   public. ” ”   But the prototype is a long way from being a   product   or from being truly portable  —   the person’s left hand in the   photo is holding a large battery pack, for example. ” ’   Magic Leap has raised $1. 39 billion dollars in venture capital,   valuing the company at $4. 5 billion, from investors including   Andreessen Horowitz, Kleiner Perkins, Google, JPMorgan, Fidelity   and Alibaba. ’ ’ Editing and additional reporting by Steven Tweedie. ’ ’ Know anything about Magic Leap? Email the author at   kleswing@businessinsider. com  ’ ’Magic Leap, the $4. 5 billion startup. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’