’  ’ ’ President Donald Trump and several associates       continue to draw intense scrutiny for their ties to the       Russian government. ’ ’ A dossier of unverified claims alleges serious       conspiracy and misconduct in the final months of the       2016 presidential campaign.  The White House has       dismissed the dossier as fiction, and most of the claims       remain unverified. The timeline of major events, however,       lines up. ’ ” The document includes one particularly explosive       allegation  —   that the Trump campaign agreed to minimize US       opposition to Russia’s incursions into Ukraine in exchange       for the Kremlin releasing negative information about Trump’s       opponent, Hillary Clinton. The timing of events supporting       this allegation also lines up. ” ’   The timeline of claims made in an  presented by top US intelligence   officials to President Donald Trump and senior lawmakers last   month has increased scrutiny of events that unfolded in the final   months of the Trump campaign. ’ ”   The dossier alleges serious misconduct and conspiracy between the   Trump campaign and Russia’s government. The White House has   dismissed the dossier as fiction, and some of the facts and   assertions it includes have indeed been proven wrong. ” ”   Other allegations in the dossier, however, are still being   investigated. According to a recent CNN report, moreover, US   intelligence officials have now corroborated some of the   dossier’s material. And this corroboration has   reportedly led US intelligence officials to regard   other information in the dossier as more credible. ” ’   Importantly, the timeline of known events fits with some of   the more serious alleged   misconduct described in the   dossier. And questions about these events have not been fully   answered, including the sudden distancing of Trump associates   from the campaign and administration as the events and Russia   ties became public. ’ ”   The dossier was compiled by veteran British spy Christopher   Steele, who was hired to investigate Trump’s ties to Russia by   the Washington,   opposition research firm Fusion GPS.   Steele developed a network of sources while working   on ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   An American consultant named Paul Manafort, who was mentioned   throughout Steele’s dossier, served as Donald Trump’s campaign   manager until August 2016. He is said to have close ties to   Ukraine and Russia.  ” ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’ change ”definitely came from Trump staffers.” ’ ’   ’ ’  for his work  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   According to the dossier, a Kremlin official involved   in US relations said that Russia attempted to cultivate US   political figures by ”funding indirectly their recent visits to   Moscow.” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   The dossier alleges that the Trump campaign pledged to   ” ’ ’   In December 2015, Flynn, then recently retired from the Defense   Intelligence Agency, traveled to Moscow to speak at a gala   celebrating the 10th anniversary of   news agency   Russia Today. ’ ’   Flynn later told  that he had been paid to attend the   gala, where he was photographed sitting next to  ’ ’  ’ ’    ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Last Tuesday,    ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ”   Carter Page was an early foreign policy adviser to Trump.  A   former investment banker with Merrill Lynch, Page also served as   an adviser  for Russia’s   energy giant   Gazprom before setting up his own energy investment fund, Global   Energy Capital, with former Gazprom executive Sergei   Yatesenko. ” ’  ’ ’the  President was so keen   to lift personal and corporate Western sanctions imposed on   the company, that he offered Page and his associates the   brokerage of up to a 19 percent (privatised) stake in Rosneft.” ’ ’   The dossier says that Pageexpressed interest”   in the offer but was ”noncommittal.” It also says that   Page promised that ”sanctions on Russia would be lifted” if Trump   were elected. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’   ’ ”   Page’s extensive business ties to   Russian companies   were investigated by  set up last year by the CIA,   according to several media reports. The investigation, which is   reportedly ongoing, has examined whether Russia was funneling   money into Trump’s presidential campaign  —   and, if it was, who   was serving as the liaison between the Trump team and the   Kremlin. ” ”   Sergei Millian, a   businessman who is now a US   citizen, founded the   Chamber of Commerce in   2006. He has described himself as an exclusive broker   for Trump’s family business, the Trump Organization, with respect   to   dealings in Russia. ” ’   One of the dossier’’s sources, ” ’ ’   The Kremlin recruited ”hundreds of agents” both in Russia   and in the US who were either ”consciously cooperating with the   FSB or whose personal and professional IT systems had been   compromised,” the dossier says, citing ”a number of Russian   figures with a detailed knowledge of national cyber crime.” ’ ’   ”Many were people who had ethnic and family ties to Russia     had been incentivized financially to cooperate,” the dossier   says. Source E allegedly told his compatriot that agents were   compensated by ”consular officials in New York, DC, and Miami,”   who issued ”pension disbursements to Russian émigrés living in   the US as cover. ..tens of thousands of dollars were involved.” ’ ’   In return for this effort, the dossier says, Putin wanted   information from Trump on Russian oligarchs living in the US,   Source E said.  The same source is quoted in the   dossier as saying ’ ’   ”Unlike in Russia, these [dealings] were substantial and involved   the payment of large bribes and kickbacks which, were they to   become public, would be potentially very damaging to their   campaign.” ’ ’     ’ ’   ”Source E,” according to recent reports by the Wall Street   Journal and ABC, is the   businessman Sergei Millian,   the founder of the   Chamber of Commerce (RACC)   who became an American citizen after arriving in the US 15 years   ago. ’ ’  ’ ’ ’ ’   Millian described himself  with Russian news agency RIA Novosti last   April.  ’ ’    ’ ’   Whereas Millian told RIA that he had been in touch with the Trump   Organization as late as April 2016, he said in an email to   Business Insider that the last time he worked on a Trump   brand project was ” ’ ’ ’ ’   Millian, on his    says he is the Vice President of the World Chinese Merchants   Union Association. He  that he traveled to Beijing to meet with a   Chinese official and the  ’ ’   Millian has also worked with  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’President Donald Trump and several associates. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’