’  ’ ’   When    announced Friday that its   sales have tanked, the   company also promised investors that it has a plan to cut costs   that will return it to profitability.  ’ ”   Investors seemed only to focus on the good news.   —   one of the biggest   gains in the stock’s   history.  ” ’   But the move also prompted some head scratching among Wall Street   money managers, industry experts, and analysts.    After all, some of the measures Sears touted  —   specifically the   closing of stores  —   were old news.   ’ ’   The   announcement  —   which promised to save the   company $1 billion in 2017  —   was ”vague” and didn’’t address the   company’’s core issues: plunging sales and customer   traffic, Chuck Tatelbaum, senior attorney in the bankruptcy   and creditors’ rights department at the Tripp Scott law   firm, . ’ ’  ’ ”   Moody’s Investors Service seemed similarly unmoved, repeating    ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   The rally had some wondering if a ”short squeeze” was to blame.   In that situation, investors who had sold shares to bet on   the stock’’s collapse would be rushing to buy them back because of   the restructuring plan.     Turns out that wasn’’t the case, according to research firm S3   Partners, which noted that the short sellers have made a killing   betting against Sears.    Another explanation? Sears shares have become highly volatile as   the company’’s business has eroded  —   and some people have started   to wonder how long before it has to file for bankruptcy.  ’ ’   ”Every stock, on its way to zero, doubles at least three times   and triples at least twice,” fund manager Whitney Tilson   wrote in an   to the   community.    ”It’s hard to imagine that the company avoids bankruptcy this   year, Lampert’s best efforts notwithstanding,” Tilson wrote. ’ ’   Tilson, who manages Kase Capital, a$70 million New     hedge fund firm, later told Business Insider that he   has no plans to short shares of Sears’ stock. ’ ’   Sears CEO Eddie Lampert assured investors, however, that the plan   will return Sears to profitability.  ’ ’   He said the company would accrue savings from the closure of 150   Sears and Kmart stores over the next couple of months, among   other actions, such as reducing corporate overhead and more   closely integrating Sears and Kmart operations. ’ ’   ”We believe the actions outlined today will reduce our overall   cash funding requirements and ensure that Sears Holdings becomes   a more agile and competitive retailer with a clear path toward   profitability,” Lampert said in a statement.  ’ ”   Sears’   sales plunged 10. 3% in the fourth quarter,   including an 8% decline at Kmart stores and a 12. 3% decline at   Sears US stores, the company said on Friday.  ” ’   For the full year, revenue is expected to fall 12% from last year   to $22. 1 billion. ’ ’   Sears has been closing hundreds of stores and selling off assets,   such as its Craftsman brand, to cut costs and raise   cash.    ’ ’When Sears announced Friday that its. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’