’  ’ ’   Mulu Bahre had been sitting across from a US refugee officer for   hours, answering a series of detailed questions about his life   before he fled Eritrea with his mother and sister nearly five   years earlier. But there was one question that stumped him. ’ ’   “What month did your father die?” the officer asked. He knew the   answer was either late March or April of 2002, but he was a child   at the time and could not remember with certainty. ’ ’   Bahre knew the officer might grow suspicious if his answer was   different from that given by his mother, who was being asked the   same question by a different refugee officer on the other side of   the wall. ’ ’   ”It’’s very scary and very stressful,” Bahre told Business   Insider. ”My mom knows that I may not know, and these things can   be seen as discrepancies in our cases. So we all have that fear.   We don’’t know if all the things are going to match up.” ’ ”   Bahre and his family had left Eritrea when he was 12. They were   trying to escape the country’s authoritarian regime, where   citizens are forced into indefinite military service and dealt   heavy fines if their family members don’t comply. They wound up   in an Ethiopian refugee camp, where in 2007 his mother applied   for resettlement. She didn’t care where they were sent  —   as long   as it was peaceful and there was work available. ” ’   The office of UN High Commissioner for Refugees assigned the   family to the US and started a process that would take years and   eventually lead Bahre, now 24, to Baltimore, where he has become   a US citizen and works as an anesthesia   technician. ’ ’   But before all that came the questions, seemingly endless and   exhausting questions. At points the officer would try to confuse   Bahre, asking him to confirm details they both knew were   incorrect. ’ ’   ”It’’s not complicated, we know our story. But they try to trick   you,” Bahre said. ’ ’   Thankfully, Bahre made it through that round of the interview,   and another one, for which he was taken to another city for a   full week. Refugee officers asked him many of the same questions,   checking to make sure all his answers matched what he told them   the first time. ’ ’   Shortly after taking office last month, President Donald Trump   signed an executive order temporarily barring entry to refugees   and travelers from seven   nations. He cited   security concerns, and said he wants to enact what he calls   ”extreme vetting.” The order is on hold, following an     decision.  ’ ’   But those closest to the   process say the current   system is already as extreme as it gets. Like Bahre’s family,   refugees undergo years of screening filled with intensive   interviews, detailed background checks, medical tests, and   constant waiting for news. ’ ’   ”I don’’t know how much harder it can get from that,” Bahre said.   ”That process is very sensitive and very stressful, and I don’’t   know how else they would increase that from what it is   currently.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Of the 20 million refugees worldwide, only 1% (200, 000) are   resettled. Many are staying put in camps, hoping things stabilize   in their home countries. ’ ”   But for those who want to seek safety in another country, the   first stop on the path is to register with the UNHCR, which fills   out paperwork, handles preliminary questioning, and scans the   refugees’ eyes to enter into a database. Then the UNHCR, a   country’s embassy, or a humanitarian group might refer the   refugees to a specific country willing to take them in. ” ’   For those refugees who are assigned to the US, the UNHCR   passes their stories and information to the US   government, triggering a  that involved the departments of State,   Homeland Security, Health and Human Services, and Defense, as   well as the FBI and other parts of the US Intelligence Community,   many testing their biographic and biometric information   against multiple databases repeatedly throughout the process. ’ ’   And amid all the screening come those interviews  —   many, many   interviews that can last three or four hours each and consist of   detailed and repeated questions, according to Tammy Lin, a San     immigration lawyer who worked at a     agency for nine years. ’ ’   The State Department says the whole process should take between   18 and 24 months. But Lin said that estimate is ”laughable.” It   took four to eight years for most of the refugees she’’s met. ’ ’   Lin said she can only assume people like Trump are ignorant of   the process when they call for ”extreme vetting” and tighter   security measures due to the threat posed by refugees. ’ ’   ”They’’re the most heavily vetted immigrants that end up coming to   the US,” Lin said. ”I feel like it’’s scapegoating to put this on   them.” ’ ’  ’ ’   American refugee officers look for reasons to deny entry. US   officials accept barely    of refugees who start the vetting process, according to the   UNHCR. ’ ’   Bryan Scott Hicks, an   immigration lawyer who works   with resettled refugee families, said he has seen cases where   refugees were denied resettlement simply because they may have   once offered food to someone considered a terrorist. Refugee   officers consider that providing ”material support” to terrorism   and immediately deny them entry. ’ ’   Hicks said many resettled Syrian families have told him that the   officers in charge of vetting them would interview each family   member separately  —   including young children  —   and ask incredibly   detailed questions, and then bring each of them back for a   second, third, or fourth round to try to catch discrepancies in   their stories. ’ ’   ”The thing that people don’’t realize is how cautious they are,”   Hicks told Business Insider. ”The inclination is not to say yes.   The default is no. So if you have an officer who catches the   remotest whiff of a problem, the answer is no.” ’ ”   And a problem can be not having the right documents. Refugees,   often fleeing war and terror, might not have the time or   foresight to pack a passport or birth certificate. Bahre’s family   had no documentation other than the   refugee card with   an identification number. ” ’   In these cases, officers have to get creative, seeking details   from informants, affidavits from family members, or consulting   third parties who knew the refugees from their home countries and   can corroborate information. ’ ’   ”It’s a long process, it’s a hard process, it’s an emotional   process, and it does take a long time,” Robin Dunn Marcos, the   senior director of processing and resettlement at the   International Rescue Committee, told Business Insider. ”It’s a   roller coaster under the best of conditions.” ’ ’   Despite the multiple interviews, the majority of the screening   happens behind the scenes, leaving many refugees unsure of their   status and why the process is taking so long. ’ ”   Like Bahre’s family, many refugees who want to be resettled are   not particularly picky about where they land. The US is often not   their top choice, preferring places like Sweden, or other   European countries known for their history of accepting refugees   and generosity with social payments, according to Lin, the lawyer   from San Diego. ” ”   The notion that refugees will commit terrorist attacks on   American soil appears to be a similarly unfounded fear. A recent    found that the odds of being killed by a   refugee committing a terrorist act on US soil is one in 3. 6   billion per year. It’s far more likely for terrorists to find   another way to enter the country due to the rigorous vetting   process for refugees, Hicks said. ” ’   ”It’’s a rigorous system, it’’s working, and if you’’re going to   demand 100% certainty, that’’s impossible,” Hicks said. ”I don’’t   know a government program that works better than that.” ’ ’Mulu Bahre had been sitting across from a US. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’