’  ’ ”   ABC anchor George Stephanopoulos grilled President Donald Trump’s   top policy adviser in a testy Sunday exchange over the   president’s unfounded voter fraud claims. ” ’   During an interview on ”This Week,” host Stephanopoulos pressed   Stephen Miller to provide evidence for Trump’’s unfounded   allegations  that voters were bused into New Hampshire from   Massachusetts during the 2016 election, costing him and former   Republican Sen. Kelly Ayotte the state.  ’ ’   Without evidence, Miller suggested that there was voter   fraud not only in the 2016 campaign, but in other New Hampshire   races as well, suggesting that the ABC anchor ”talk to   anybody who’’s worked in politics there for a long time.” ’ ’   ”Having worked before on a campaign in New Hampshire, I can tell   you that this issue of busing voters in to New Hampshire is   widely known by anyone who’s worked in New Hampshire politics,”   Miller said. ”It’s very real, it’s very serious. This morning on   this show is not the venue for me lay out all the evidence, but I   can tell you this: Voter fraud is a serious problem in this   country.” ’ ’   After Miller continued to insist that New Hampshire was a hotbed   for voter fraud activity, the ABC anchor pointed out that   the adviser offered no evidence that there was voter fraud. ’ ’   ”Hold a second. I’m asking you as the White House senior policy   adviser, the president made a statement saying he was the victim   of voter fraud,” Stephanopoulos said. ”Do you have any evidence?” ’ ’   Trump’’s adviser suggested instead that ”if this is an issue   that interests you, then we can talk about it more in the   future,” Stephanopoulos should ”invite Kris Kobach onto   your show and he can walk you through some of the evidence of   voter fraud.” ’ ’   Kobach, Kansas’’ secretary of state and prominent a     previously cited a 2012 Pew Research Center study that found that   million voter registrations were outdated in 2008. The author of   the study, often cited by Trump administration officials as proof   of the president’’s claim,  last year that the researchers ”found millions of   out of date registration records due to people moving or dying,   but found no evidence that voter fraud resulted.” ’ ’   When Stephanopoulos told Miller ”you have provided   absolutely no evidence” to support his claims, the policy adviser   interjected, claiming the administration ”provided enormous   evidence,” insisting that outdated voter registration   roles were evidence of fraud, and claiming that immigrants   living in the US without permission were voting en masse. ’ ’   ”George, it is a fact and you will not deny it, that are massive   numbers of   in this country who are registered to   vote. That is a scandal. We should stop the presses and as a   country we should be aghast about the fact that you have people   who have no right to vote in this country registered to vote,   canceling out the franchise of lawful citizens of this country,”   Miller said. ’ ’   ”That’s the story we should be talking about. And I’m prepared to   go on any show, anywhere, any time, and repeat it and say the   President of the United States is correct, 100 percent.” ’ ’   The ABC anchor wrapped up the interview by reminding viewers   that Miller did not provide any concrete evidence to support his   claims. ’ ’   ”You just repeated that you just made those declarations, but for   the record you’ve provided zero evidence that the president was   the victim of massive voter fraud in New Hampshire,”   Stephanopoulos said.  ’ ’   He continued: ”You have provided zero evidence of the president’s   claim that he would’ve won the popular vote if 3 to 5 million   illegal immigrants hadn’t voted. Zero evidence for either one of   those claims. Thanks a lot for joining us in the morning.” ’ ’   When Miller replied that the Trump administration was going to   ”protect our country” from terrorism, voter fraud, and economic   disparity, Stephanopoulos ended the interview with a parting   shot.   ”You can start by providing evidence to back up your claims,” he   said. ’ ’   Since November, Trump has repeatedly suggested without evidence   that voter fraud occurred on a massive scale in different parts   of the country. In addition to his claims about New Hampshire, he   insisted that millions of immigrants living in California without   permission cost him the popular vote. ’ ’   While  in states like California   found zero evidence of fraud, Trump has insisted that he will   launch an official federal government investigation to look   into his own voter fraud allegations.  ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tWhite House senior advisor doubles down on unsubstantiated NH voter fraud claims: “Voter fraud is a serious problem in this country”  ’ ’ABC anchor George Stephanopoulos grilled. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’