’  ’ ”   President Donald Trump and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe sat   in front of paying members of Trump’s    resort Saturday   when they were . ” ’     lights pointed toward sensitive documents. One of the   attendees took photos of the scene, uploading them to   Facebook. The   process came in ” .  ’ ’   That has alarmed national security experts who say Trump is   sending a message to foreign intelligence agencies that he is   willing to receive sensitive or classified information in an   insecure space. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Two of the administration’s top officials,   including  ” ’   ’ ’   John Cook, a journalist, said on Twitter that ”we used to   put our phones in fridges to talk about Snowden docs at The   Intercept. These . .. are POINTING THEIR PHONES at class[ified]   info.” ’ ”   It is unclear if Trump had his unsecured Android phone with him   during the briefing, which he still carries around with him to   send tweets, according to . The  to phishing attacks that could   infect the phone with malware, which is capable of taking over   the phone’s camera and microphone. ” ’  ’ ’   The White House sought to put to rest the mounting questions   over the   strategy session late Monday, telling CNN in a   statement that the leaders were not discussing anything   classified and rather were focusing on the logistics of the   presser. ’ ”   But Trump’s   approach to intelligence briefings began   even before he was sworn in. In December, reports emerged that   Trump was skipping his daily presidential briefings, and had only   had a handful since he was elected one month before. Vice   President Mike Pence, in contrast, opted for roughly six   briefings per week, according to  ” ’  ’ ’   In any case, Saturday’’s incident ”is likely to increase   dinner reservation bookings at    by foreign intelligence   agencies,” Stephen Biddle, a ’ ’   ”During the Cold War, intelligence agencies went to elaborate   lengths to plant bugs in places where less senior officials than   the President were likely to hold conversations,” added Biddle, a   professor of political science at George Washington University   who  ’ ’So we can expect that they will take advantage of   the much easier job of keeping eavesdroppers within range of the   Presidential table in settings like this if the President insists   on holding policy discussions in such places,” he said. ’ ’President Donald Trump and Japanese Prime. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’