’  ’ ’   Billionaire business mogul Mark Cuban posted a series of tweets   responding to President Donald Trump on Sunday after the   president tweeted Cuban is ”not smart enough” to seek the   presidency. ’ ’ ”I know Mark Cuban well,”   adding, ”He backed me   but I wasn’’t interested in taking   all of his calls. He’’s not smart enough to run for president!” ’ ’   Initially, Cuban responded with a single acronym. ’ ’   ”Lol,” Cuban . ’ ’   The owner of the NBA’’s Dallas Mavericks and star of ABC’’s ”Shark   Tank” followed up with screenshots of a pair of emails. One was a   message he sent to Trump’’s team following a primary victory in   April, which was marked up by Trump. The other was a lengthy   email he sent to the   Republican nominee in May. ’ ’   ”How soon they forget . ...” Cuban tweeted. ’ ’   The first email, which Cuban sent congratulating Trump, contained   a short reply from the future president. ’ ’   ”Mark  —   Wow, saw you on CNN  —   Nasty! What happened?” Trump wrote. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tHow soon they forget . ...  ’ ’   Cuban had downplayed questions of whether he will seek the   presidency in a future election prior to Trump’’s victory over   Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton, whom Cuban   backed and for whom he was a prominent surrogate. In September,   Cuban shot down the idea at the first presidential debate.   However, he suggested in his email responding to Trump’’s comments   last May that he ”may go after that job someday and it could be   against you.” ’ ”   After a Twitter user responded to Cuban’s tweets asking why the   president was dissing him on social media, Cuban said he did   not know. ” ’     ”But isn’’t it better for all of us that he is tweeting rather     than trying to govern?” he added.   ’ ’     Trump’’s initial Sunday tweet followed  from earlier in the     day on how his team is planning ahead for his 2020 reelection     effort. Sources told the Post that the idea of Cuban     seeking the presidency and challenging Trump is the White     House’’s ”biggest fear” because he would have similar outsider     appeal to Republicans and independents.   ’ ’     ”He’s not a typical candidate,” one insider told the Post.     ”He appeals to a lot of people the same way Trump did.”   ’ ’     ”If you believe in the Trump revolution, you can believe a     candidate like Mark Cuban could win an election,” the source     added. ”And Mark is the kind of guy who would drop half a     billion dollars of his own money on the race.”   ’ ’     In recent weeks, after laying off of Trump following his     electoral victory, Cuban has returned to hammering the     president on social media and in TV interviews.  of the travel ban, taking a more openly     critical position toward it than any prominent executive.   ’ ’     ”I’’ve been crushing POTUS,” he wrote . ”He has earned it.”   ’ ’     Cuban was warmer to the idea of a Trump presidency during the     primary season, but quickly soured on the Manhattan billionaire     after he secured the nomination.   ’ ’Billionaire business mogul Mark Cuban posted a. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’