’  ’ ”   President Donald Trump during a joint press conference on Monday   managed to avoid questions about concerns that embattled National   Security Adviser Michael Flynn misled Trump officials about his   communications with Russia’s ambassador. ” ”   A  published last week said Flynn may have   lied to Mike Pence, then the vice   about whether   the adviser discussed   sanctions with Russian Ambassador   Sergey Kislyak before Trump took office, raising concerns about   Flynn’s future in the White House. ” ”   But despite the story’s   treatment in newspapers like   The Post, The New York Times, and The Wall Street Journal, the   American journalists Trump called on during his joint press   conference with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau did not   confront Trump about the national security adviser. ” ’   Scott Thurman from ABC7 Sinclair asked a broad question about the   ”philosophical differences” between Trump and Trudeau, while   Kaitlan Collins, The Daily Caller’’s White House reporter, asked   Trump what he saw as the largest   threat facing   the US. ’ ”   Several reporters noted the absence of a question about Flynn,   which some journalists such as ABC’s Jon Karl attempted to ask   Trump as he left the press conference. ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tBrian Williams wrapping the WH presser: ”The story. ..is what wasn’’t asked.” Notes   ”weren’’t called on. ”’t’t’ ” ’t’t’tFox’s national security correspondent:  ” ’ ’t’t’tHearing reporters gripe about the lack of Flynn questions now: ”I’’m just embarrassed for us. That was really embarrassing. ”’t’t’ ’ ’t’t’tJournos dropped ball by not asking about Flynn. Also, legacy media sound like whiny frat from “Breaking Away” re: smaller outlets called on.  ’ ’ ’t’t’tAt 2 pressers in 4 days, Trump exclusively called on conservative news orgs that did not ask about Flynn. Reporters shouted Qs just now. ’t’t’ ’ ’t’t’t. in earshot of every1 (&Flynn) “The simple question is, does the president still have confidence in his National Security Advisor? ”’t’t’ ’   Some prominent former Democratic staffers were also quick to   criticize the questions at the press conference. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tThe National Security Advisor is accused of breaking the law and lying to the public and the Vice President and not one question is asked. ’t’t’ ” ’t’t’tIf you’re wondering why no Flynn questions, Trump took q’s from:1. 2. A Sinclair affiliate, who he cut a coverage deal with’t’t” ”   This isn’t the first time the new administration has been   scrutinized for its selection of questioners. ” ”   Trump’s team faced some criticism after the president’s press   conference last week for taking questions from  who has  to Trump. White House press   secretary Sean Spicer has attempted to include smaller news   outlets in press briefings, including local outlets, as well as   some questioners who  during the campaign. ” ’President Donald Trump during a joint press. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’