’  ’ ’   Democrats are using the word ”Watergate” to describe the latest   developments in the   firestorm casting a cloud over   the White House in the early days of President Donald Trump’’s   administration. ’ ”   Elected officials and party operatives have used language related   to the scandal that sunk Richard Nixon’s presidency  —   or   mentioned it outright. ” ’   The statements come after Michael Flynn resigned as national   security adviser on Monday night after having misled the White   House about the content of his communications with the Russian   ambassador before Trump took office. ’ ” The New York Times reported   Tuesday that intercepted phone calls showed that members of   Trump’s campaign had multiple contacts with Russian intelligence   officials before the US election. Trump and his administration   had denied that such communication took place. ” ’   ”The parallels to Watergate here are eerie, I have to say,” Robby   Mook, who was Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton’’s   campaign manager, . ’ ’’ ”   The Watergate scandal began with a   at the Democratic   National Committee’s headquarters at the Watergate Hotel in   Washington, DC, in 1972, which Mook said was comparable to   Russian intelligence hacking into the DNC’s email system and   releasing the emails through WikiLeaks. ” ’   ”Now, at every step, we’’re learning more and more, and it’’s   getting closer and closer to the president himself,” he said. ’ ’   The DNC itself went further than Mook, saying the ties between   Trump and Russia had already eclipsed the Watergate scandal,   which resulted in several Nixon aides being criminally convicted   and serving sentences in either jail or prison. ’ ’   ”This is already bigger than Watergate,” DNC senior adviser Zac   Petkanas, who formerly worked on the Clinton campaign, said in a   statement. ”The sanctity of our democracy demands an immediate,   independent, transparent investigation into the connections   between Donald Trump, his staff, and the Russian government.” ’ ’   When speaking about Flynn’’s resignation  —   zeroing in on a   Washington Post report that said the acting attorney general had   warned the White House weeks earlier that the national security   adviser could be vulnerable to Russian blackmail  —   elected   Democrats including Rep. Elijah Cummings of Maryland and Sen.   Chris Coons of Delaware repeated a phrase made famous during the   Senate’’s Watergate hearings: ”What did the president know, and   when did he know it?” ’ ’   The comparison also made waves outside of the Democratic Party.   Former CBS News anchor Dan Rather posted a Facebook status on the   subject that was shared widely. ’ ’   ”Watergate is the biggest political scandal of my lifetime, until   maybe now,” . ”It was the closest we came to a   debilitating constitutional crisis, until maybe now. ’ ’   ”On a 10 scale of Armageddon for our form of government, I would   put Watergate at a 9,” he continued. ”This Russia scandal is   currently somewhere around a 5 or 6, in my opinion, but it is   cascading in intensity seemingly by the hour. And we may look   back and see, in the end, that it is at least as big as   Watergate. It may become the measure by which all future scandals   are judged. It has all the necessary ingredients, and that is   chilling.” ’ ’Democrats are using the word ”Watergate” to. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’