’  ’ ’   When President Donald Trump arrived in the Oval Office on   Thursday, there was something he wanted to do. ’ ’. ’ ”   Trump was in the midst of one of the most tumultuous weeks in   presidential history. Not even one full month into his   presidency, his fourth week in office was defined   by   legal battles,   internal strife, and   the resignation of the national security adviser while questions   swirl about the president’s ties to Russia. ” ’   The presser was scheduled for noon. Its   subject: Announcing his new choice to head the Labor   Department after his original selection, Andrew Puzder, withdrew   himself from consideration following intense criticism over   his past controversies and statements. ’ ”   And, for its first 56 seconds, the press conference focused   on exactly that  —   Trump’s nomination of Alexander Acosta to fill   his newest void. ” ”   But it was the next 76 minutes that will go down  —   as many   moments during Trump’s time as a candidate, frontrunner,   presumptive nominee, nominee,   and in his short   stint as president have  —   as among the most surreal and   unprecedented the US has witnessed in 228 years of having a   president. ” ’   Trump battled with the press, attempted to downplay the growing   Russia controversy, listed off what he called accomplishments   from his first month in office, and said enough newsworthy   statements to fill hours of   programming. He said,   despite the reporting that paints the opposite picture, that his   administration is ”a   machine.”  ’ ’   Reactions to Trump’’s more than   press conference hit all   ends of the spectrum. CNN anchor Jake Tapper said it was ”wild”   and ”unhinged.” An ”airing of grievances,” . ”It was Festivus.” Fox News anchor   Shepard Smith slammed the president for attempting to   delegitimize questions about Russia.   ’ ’   Kurt Bardella, formerly a senior adviser and spokesperson for the     House Oversight Committee, told Business Insider   that the press conference made clear Trump ”lives in an alternate   reality.” ’ ’   ”Anyone who wasn’’t questioning his mental capacity to do this job   is now doing so after that unhinged press conference,” he said in   an email. ”Forget about ’’alternative facts,’’ President Trump   lives in an alternate reality. No matter how much he insists that   he doesn’’t listen to the media or care about what the press   writes about him, clearly he does.” ’ ”   But Trump’s supporters seemed reinvigorated by the   president’s Thursday actions. ” ’   Conservative radio host Joe Walsh  that an    Navy veteran   called into his program and said he’’s ”been waiting 40 years for   a president to do what Trump did to the media today.”   Conservative author Ann Coulter, a major   : ”Trump is already head of state.    After that press conference, in my eyes, he’’s now head of   church.” Conservative radio host Rush Limbaugh said it was like   nothing he’’d ever seen. ’ ’   And Matt Mackowiak, a Republican strategist and and president of   the Potomac Strategy Group, called the ordeal ”masterful”   performance art. ’ ’   ”You know, there’’s obviously some substance there that will   obviously invite more questions and possibly more controversy,   but to me . .. he’’s actually feeling pretty confident right now,”   he told Business Insider. ”And I think that really conflicts with   what people are thinking he should be feeling right now,   particularly Democrats and people in the media who think he   should be rethinking everything.” ’ ’   ”He really kind of demonstrated just a basic sense of confidence   that I think will buck up Republicans and will buck up his   supporters after what’’s really been sort of a rocky   10 days,” he continued. ’ ’   ”To me, you can sit back and take it,” he said of the negative   news hanging over Trump’’s early presidency. ”Or you can go on   offense.” ’ ’   Without any shadow of a doubt, Trump went ahead on offense. ’ ’   ”Unfortunately, much of the media in Washington, DC, along with   New York, Los Angeles in particular, speaks not for the people,   but for the special interests and for those profiting off a very,   very obviously broken system,” Trump said early in an   especially long opening statement. ”The press has become so   dishonest that if we don’t talk about, we are doing a tremendous   disservice to the American people. Tremendous disservice. We have   to talk to find out what’s going on, because the press honestly   is out of control. The level of dishonesty is out of control.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Trump vented. He said he ”inherited a mess” when he took   office, both ”at home and abroad,” adding that some of his   decisions ”probably aren’’t popular, but they’’re necessary for   security and other reasons.” ’ ”   The last part was a rare admission from a president   that has prided himself on having the ear of the American people.   But it served as something of an acknowledgment that some of his   policies have been unpopular. His executive order   banning travel from seven   nations, for   instance, has sparked widespread demonstrations nationwide.   And the promised repeal and replacement of Obamacare has led   to opponents of the idea to take to lawmakers’ town halls to   voice displeasure. ” ’   Trump touched on that, saying those individuals ”are   not the Republican people our that representatives are   representing.”  ’ ’   The president filled the event with the kind of outlandish   statements that, during the campaign, helped give Trump a   groundswell of support that catapulted him into the office he now   occupies. ’ ’   On   issues facing the country, Trump said ”we’re   becoming a drug infested nation” and that ”drugs are becoming   cheaper than candy bars,” adding, ”We are not going to let it   happen any longer.” He touted previous announcements about job   creating in the US, adding the future would see a ”big league”   return of jobs from overseas that would dwarf what he believed to   be his early successes. ’ ’  ’ ”   And he batted away question after question on   the growing controversy surrounding his administration’s   connections to the Russian government that have cast a cloud over   his presidency. ” ”   Earlier this week, his national security adviser, Michael Flynn,   resigned following reports that he discussed recently imposed   sanctions with a Russian ambassador prior to Trump taking office,   and then was not honest about it with Vice President Mike Pence   when discussing what was said in his communications. Reports this   week have indicated that intelligence officials said   several members of Trump’s campaign had been in   communication with Russian officials during the campaign. ” ’   Over and over, Trump tried to crush the story. ’ ’   ”Russia is fake news,” he said. ”Russia  —   this is fake news put   out by the media.” ’ ’   The president said Flynn, ”a fine person,” was asked to resign   for not being truthful with Pence, but not for his actions   involving the Russian ambassador.  ’ ’   ”He didn’t have to do that,” Trump said of Flynn’’s statements to   Pence, ”because what he did wasn’t wrong.” ’ ’   ”What was wrong was the way that other people, including   yourselves in this room, were given that information, because   that was classified information that was given illegally,” he   continued. ”That’s the real problem. And, you know, you can talk   all you want about Russia, which was all a, you know, fake news,   fabricated deal, to try and make up for the loss of the Democrats   and the press plays right into it.” ’ ’   The press, he added, should be ”ashamed” for publishing   information that was the product of government officials   illegally leaking the information. ’ ’   Digging in, he said the leaks were real, and the   reports about them were fake. ’ ’   ”You’re the one that wrote about them and reported them. I mean,   the leaks are real,” he said. ”You know what they said, you saw   it and the leaks are absolutely real. The news is fake because so   much of the news is fake.” ’ ’   ”I didn’t do anything for Russia,” he later added. ”I’ve done   nothing for Russia.” ’ ’   He pointed to the Obama administration’’s ”Russian reset,” which   prominently featured   of State Hillary Clinton. It   was her, he said, who gave up a lot to Russia. After all of the   recent news reports about his administration’’s connections to   Russia, he said Russian President Vladimir Putin probably no   longer thinks there is any possibility of making a good deal with   Trump. ’ ’   Putin’’s ”sitting behind his desk and he’s saying ’’you know, I see   what’s going on in the United States, I follow it closely,” Trump   said. ”It’s going to be impossible for President Trump to ever   get along with Russia because of all the pressure he’s got with   this fake story. ’’ OK?” ’ ’   Later, in an unrelated pair of separately     moments that happened minutes apart, Trump shut down a question   from Jewish reporter asking about a rise in   before   asking a prominent black reporter to help him set up a meeting   with the Congressional Black Caucus, asking if she was friends   with its members. ’ ’   Trump saved his biggest complaints about his coverage for CNN,   saying the network covered him with ”hatred” and that anchor Don   Lemon  —   not among the attendees  —   spewed ”venom” when discussing   the president on air. In an exchange with CNN’’s Jim Acosta, Trump   said he no longer called the network ”fake news”  —   instead   calling it ”very fake news.” ’ ’   Many, including Acosta, laughed. ’ ’   And amid his lengthy response to the controversies at hand, Trump   said he was having a blast. ’ ’   ”I’m actually having a very good time, OK?” he said. ”But they’ll   take this news conference  —   don’t forget, that’s the way I won.   Remember, I used to give you a news conference every time I made   a speech, which was like every day. OK? . .. No, that’s how I won.   I won with news conferences and probably speeches. I certainly   didn’t win by people listening to you people. That’s for sure.   But I’m having a good time.” ’ ’   It was one incredible rant.  ’ ’   ”Tomorrow, they will say, ’’Donald Trump rants and raves at the   press,’’” he said. ”I’m not ranting and raving. I’m just telling   you. You know, you’re dishonest people. But  —   but I’m not ranting   and raving. I love this. I’m having a good time doing it. But   tomorrow, the headlines are going to be, ’’Donald Trump rants and   raves. ’’ I’m not ranting and raving.”  ’ ’When President Donald Trump arrived in the Oval. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’