’  ’ ’   Canyon Capital Advisors, a $14 billion Los     investment firm set up  ’ ’ ”significant increase in supply” of   potential deals ”as companies having difficulty growing   organically have instead sought to buy growth.” ’ ’   At the same time, fewer investors are able to invest in these   kinds of deals, which generally involves buying the stock of a   company being acquired during a sale while selling off stock in   the acquiring company. ’ ”   Canyon cites the gutting of Wall Street banks’ proprietary desks,   which used to trade the banks’ own money, and the travails of   many   hedge funds which have suffered and can’t   take big positions any more.  ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   The strategy  —   in hedge fund jargon called risk or merger   arbitrage  —   is risky since deals often fall through. In   2014, the Wall Street Journal referred to the phenomenon as   ””   after a slew of failed deals burned hedge funds like JANA   Partners and Paulson & Co, which had bet big on   certain takeovers. ’ ’   Wall Street dealmaking can also go through ebbs and flows, with   last year seeing  after record   highs in activity a year prior. These kinds of strategies are   also apt to being taken over by algorithms, which may be able to   make the predictions better than human investors, the . ’ ’  ’ ’   Meanwhile, the wideness in deal spreads  —   been compounded   by policy risk, as the US government has taken an exceptionally   aggressive stance against mergers in general for several years,”   Canyon added in its letter. ’ ’   ”The structural forces weighing on deal spreads, as well as the   idiosyncratic and short duration nature of the investments, have   made risk arb a fertile area for capital deployment (including on   the debt side, where the   can be far more grounded),” the   firm added.  ’ ’   Canyon has made betting on mergers one of its largest positions,   increasing the strategy from 1% to 11% of its portfolio since the   start of 2016, the letter said. ’ ’   Canyon managed $14. 2 billion in hedge fund assets as of     2016, according to the HFI Billion Dollar Club ranking. The Los     hedge fund firm managed about $9 billion in its   Value Realization fund at the start of this year, the letter   said. ’ ’   The Canyon Value Realization Fund, L. P. gained about 2 % net   of fees for the fourth quarter of 2016, bringing the estimated   return for 2016 to about 9%. Year to date through February   3, the fund was up an estimated 2. 2% net of fees, according to   the letter. ’ ’   A Canyon media rep declined to comment. ValueWalk earlier   reported on the letter. ’ ’Canyon Capital Advisors, a $14 billion Los. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’