’  ’ ”   Uber hasn’t had the best relationship with its drivers, and its   latest effort to try to appease some of their concerns went   badly awry. ” ”   On Thursday, Uber’s president of ridesharing, Jeff Jones,    to answer driver questions. By 10   a. m. there was already a backlog of more than 100 questions   ready to be answered, ranging from concerns over Uber taking   increasingly larger shares of the fares passengers pay to safety   concerns about riders in rural places.  ” ”   This was Uber’s chance to show how much it’s finally addressing   the needs of its drivers. Yet, to say it didn’t go well was an   understatement. ” ”   Instead of coming off as a company that was listening to its   drivers, Uber’s president simply parroted back its own help   center articles and blog posts, angering drivers in the   process.  ” ’  ’ ’   Jones evaded answering the hundreds of other individual and   pointed questions by responding with corporate   platitudes to general themes like UberPool and driver   ratings. ’ ”   For example, when it came to discussing rider behavior, he   pointed to the recently updated community guidelines rather than   addressing genuine ideas from drivers in the comments about   sending negative feedback to riders when they’re rated below   three stars by drivers. Instead, Jones boilerplate response   was followed by a link to Uber’s legal page of terms and   policies. ” ’   Jones only responded individually to 12 questions during the   Q&A, with four of them being questions about whether the   Q&A had started. After 30 minutes, he called it quits saying   the ”time had flown by” despite earlier promising   to spend a full hour answering questions. ’ ”   It’s a stark contrast to other CEOs, like Airbnb’s Brian Chesky,   for example, who  on Christmas and then responded   individually to nearly every one  —   even the bad ones. ” ’   Uber says it’’s ”listening” in that it is reading the   comments from drivers and giving them a forum to voice their   concerns. But by failing to do the ”answer” part that’’s   generally associated with a Q&A, Uber only proved to   alienate the drivers it depends on. ’ ’   ”The ONLY thing you made clear to the majority of us is that you   don’’t have ANY productive answers,” one driver wrote. ”You made   it crystal clear (if there was any doubt) that Uber does NOT care   about it’’s drivers.” ’ ”Uber hasn’t had the best relationship with its. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’