’To call Felix Kjellberg ”internet famous” is to sell him short. The name may not be familiar to you, but perhaps his pseudonym is: ”Pewdiepie. ”’ ’’ ”He’s a handsome    Swedish man who plays video games, records video blogs, and makes millions of dollars doing so (about $15 million last year, ).” ”That’s also selling him short  —   Kjellberg makes his job look easy, which is almost certainly a testament to how hard he actually works. He publishes at least one, often several, videos each day. That’s before you start talking about  or  or  or .” ’ just passed 53 million subscribers. His videos casually reach tens of millions of people.’ ’’ ”He’s far and away the most popular YouTuber, by tens of millions of subscribers, which is why it was such a big deal when  collecting several instances of Kjellberg using   imagery and phrases in videos he made. Disney, which had a business deal with Kjellberg, . Google, which owns YouTube, also  starring Kjellberg. And on Thursday, Kjellberg fired back in  —   what else?  —   . ” ”There’s a lot to unpack here. Let’s dive in.” ’The piece highlighted several instances where Kjellberg used   language or imagery in videos. The  then contacted Disney, the parent company of Maker Studios, to ask about those instances  —   Kjellberg and Maker Studios formed a joint venture to create video content. That venture is now off.’ ’”Although Felix has created a following by being provocative and irreverent, he clearly went too far in this case and the resulting videos are inappropriate,” a spokeswoman for Maker Studios told Business Insider. ”Maker Studios has made the decision to end our affiliation with him going forward. ”’ ’Though Kjellberg’’s Pewdiepie account is still active and he’’s able to earn ad revenue from ads run over his videos, YouTube (the company) has cut ties with Kjellberg. Specifically, the company is canceling plans to create a second season of the show ”Scare Pewdiepie”  —   a show funded by YouTube intended for the company’’s paid platform, YouTube Red.’ ’The   video platform also removed Kjellberg from its preferred advertising program, which enables major YouTube channels to reap higher profits from ad revenue than the average YouTube channel. ’ ”As you might’ve guessed from the image, Kjellberg is pissed.” ’In the video, titled, ”My Response,” Kjellberg rails against the media in a rant that’’s more reminscent of a recent presidential    than the usually affable YouTuber.’ ’”It was an attack by the media to try and discredit me, to try and decrease my influence, and my economic worth,” he says. ’ ’He  ahead of the Wall Street Journal report denouncing hate groups who picked up on his   ”humor” as serious. Here’’s the full letter:’ ’”Just to clear some things up  …    ’ ’It came to my attention yesterday that some have been pointing to my videos and saying that I am giving credibility to the   movement, and my fans are part of it as well for watching. I don’t want to cite the sources because I don’t want to give them any more attention.’ ’This originated from a video I made a couple of weeks ago. I was trying to show how crazy the modern world is, specifically some of the services available online. I picked something that seemed absurd to me —  That people on Fiverr would say anything for 5 dollars.’ ’I think it’s important to say something and I want to make one thing clear: I am in no way supporting any kind of hateful attitudes.’ ’I make videos for my audience. I think of the content that I create as entertainment, and not a place for any serious political commentary. I know my audience understand that and that is why they come to my channel. Though this was not my intention, I understand that these jokes were ultimately offensive.’ ’As laughable as it is to believe that I might actually endorse these people, to anyone unsure on my standpoint regarding   groups: No, I don’t support these people in any way.’ ’Thanks for reading. ”’ ’Using the website Fiverr, Kjellberg hired two men to make a sign that said ”Death to All Jews.” Fiverr enables users to hire freelancers to perform tasks for $5. Kjellberg says this was a joke meant to point out how you could use the internet to get people to do anything for a relatively low amount of money.’ ’Hate groups, however, took it another way. ”Ultimately, it doesn’t matter, since the effect is the same. It normalizes Nazism, and marginalizes our enemies,” a post on The Daily Stormer, a   website, reads.’ ’It was stuff like this that led Kjellberg to issue his statement on Tumblr on February 13, even though he continues to defend his use of  . ”A lot of people loved the video, and a lot of people didn’’t. And it’’s almost like two generations of people arguing whether this is OK or not,” he says in his ”My Response” video, posted on Thursday.’ ’To call Felix Kjellberg ”internet famous” is to. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’