’Crossover SUVs are the hottest segment in the car business right now, and an especially appealing subset of the segment are small utility vehicles. ’ ’These are the new entry points to brands; it used to be that small sedans were the starter cars.’ ”Luxury and   brands are both jumping in. BMW has the X1 as its entry level crossover, and Buick has the Encore. This isn’t going to be an    comparison, by the way.” ’The Bimmer is a true luxury brand, while Buick resides below Cadillac in the  hierarchy.’ ’But the two vehicles, separated by price  —   more than $10, 000, in fact  —   can be usefully compared. Both provide good utility, have about the same amount of passenger and cargo space, come equipped with a nice lineup of tech features, and can even be compared in terms of how they drive.’ ’The biggest difference is really one of impressions and expectations. The BMW is supposed to be the   version of the ”ultimate driving machine. ”’ ’The Buick, on the other hand, needs to bring younger buyers into the brand and not deviate too much from what makes a Buick a Buick: quietness, composure, and   style.’ ’So what we ultimately have here is a pair of vehicles equally burdened by their respective automotive DNA. The BMW, for example, needs to satisfy the person behind the wheel. The Buick needs to soothe the driver. The BMW has to carry a certain amount of design weight  —   this crossover needs to fit into the BMW family, which includes the X3 and the X5. ’ ”The Buick has to exude some of the  ’s unforced elegance and   vibe without coming off as stuffy. Buick has done yeoman work in the last decade changing the idea that its cars are strictly for the retirement community demographic. ” ’So the two crossovers are easier to compare than it appears.’ ’And there might even be a surprise or two about the one we liked better.’ ’Read the review .’ ’The X1 started out life as a wagon, and it retains that flavor, whereas the Encore is more of a   crossover.’ ”So the X1 resembles a BMW sedan that has been turned into a crossover, while the Encore looks more like a   SUV. If it resembles a Chevy Trax to your eye, that’s because the vehicles share a GM platform.” ”Both crossovers come in    and    variants. The AWD Encore was appreciated in the winter weather of suburban NJ. The BMW didn’t need to face that test.” ”We have to give the engine to the X1. It has a lot more horsepower and comes off as more responsive then the Encore’s. The Buick is about two second slower to 60 mph. You can also feel the 1.  turbo straining, while the X1’s bigger   pumps up the power with less effort.” ”The Encore does maintain Buick’s reputation for quiet, however, isolating you from the engine noise.” ”Plus, you have to ask yourself if the X1’s beefier powerplant is worth the extra $12, 000. ” ”  the X1 actually disappoints, as one expects it to do that BMW thing and road like their now tomorrow. The Encore surprises on the front, punching above its weight. I was delighted by how darty and quick it felt at lower speeds, and while the BMW’s steering is acceptable, the Buick’s was better than expected.” ”The Encore is quite the overachiever. It can’t match the X1 for power or driving, but then again, it’s a Buick and not a Bimmer. And while the X1 doesn’t perfectly translate the ultimate driving machine into a small package, the Encore is Buick enough to trace a line back through its brand legacy.” ”The Buick also feels more premium inside, while the X1 gives off a vaguely compromised vibe, even though the materials are on their face of a higher quality. In terms of hauling capability, it’s a draw, although when fully loaded down the Encore is going to feel very slow, due to the more than 50 horsepower gap between it and the X1.” ’Both crossovers are up to snuff with safety features and   technologies, but neither is advanced as some other, more expensive and larger vehicles.’ ”Resale and   value, for what it’s worth, is likely to be higher for the BMW.” ”The Encore’s infotainment and connectivity package pretty well blows the BMW’s away, and that will matter far more to many buyers than the   mph time. IntelliLink plus OnStar plus 4G LTE is just an unbeatable combination.” ”The Encore’s 26 mpg     combined beats the X1’s    but not by enough to make much of a difference. In fact, if you’re looking for a reason to go with the BMW and aren’t troubled by the extra costs, the superior performance joined to the decent MPGs is a definite selling point.” ’The bottom line is that in the X1 and the Encore we have two compelling, contemporary crossovers. ’ ”But in the end, the X1 is less good at being a small BMW SUV than the Encore is at being a small Buick SUV. There isn’t enough going for the BMW behind the wheel to justify the substantial price gap. The choice comes down to taste. If you like your cars with luxury badges, the BMW is your baby.” ”But if you’re willing to give the Buick a chance, you might be pleasantly surprised.” ’Crossover SUVs are the hottest segment in the. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’