’  ’ ’   You might have heard that .  ’ ’   The rise of automation has been a conversation starter on   Main Street and Wall Street alike, with   replacing     jobs in everything from manufacturing to financial   advice.  ’ ’   The rise of     is a part of this trend. ’ ’     provide financial advice or portfolio management   online or via a smartphone application. Rather than using human   managers to build portfolios, they use algorithms to   determine where to invest.  ’ ’  ’ ’   The affordability of   platforms and their   simplicity  many platforms allow clients to   create accounts in minutes  have fueled   their rise in popularity and growth.  ’ ’   Consider, for instance, the fact that pure   firms have   witnessed triple digit growth since 2013, according to a team of   analysts at Morgan Stanley led by Giulia Aurora Miotto. The bank   predicts a $6. 5 trillion market globally for robo advice by 2025. ’ ’   But despite the massive growth of   firms, the   bank does not expect robos to usurp their legacy   competitors  think someone like Charles   Schwab  nor do they think they will completely   replace human beings. ’ ’   ”We think   will be less disruptive than feared   by incumbents, as brand and network remain king,” Morgan   Stanley said. ’ ”   The bank identified a number of reasons why bots won’t be able to   topple legacy firms. One of the main ones is the fact that   investors still need  and   want  human financial involved in their   financial planning.  ” ’   ”The financial sector consumer often needs some sort of human   contact, especially when abrupt market moves lead to   unexpected losses,” the bank said. ’ ’   The note mentions a study that found investors cited ”an   advisers willingness to take the time to understand needs and   goals” and ”explain analysis clearly” as two of the   paramount qualities in a financial advice provider. ’ ”   In addition, there are many things that robo platforms can’t   do.  ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   So if the future isn’t pure robo, then what is it? It’s cyborg. ” ’   Benjamin Pring is the   of the forthcoming book ”When   Machines Do Everything.” He told Business Insider that he’’s   ”long” on human financial advisers. ’ ’   ”It has always been my perspective that humans weren’’t going   anywhere in this space,” Pring said. As such, he likes to   say that ”hybrid is the new black.” ’ ”   The   cyborg or hybrid model refers to a financial advice   platform that pairs algorithm based financial planning with   components of human interaction. It’s essentially financial   advice with a human face and robo insides. According to Morgan   Stanley hybrid firms will be the best positioned to grow and   succeed. ” ’   Betterment, a firm many consider the poster child of     has recently responded to this desire for human help.   On . Alex Benke,   Vice President of Financial Advice and Investing at   Betterment, told Business Insider that the financial services   space is changing and this move was a response client   preferences. ’ ’   ”If there’’s one thing we’’ve learned providing advice over the   past five years, it’’s that everyone is different,” he   said. ”There’’s no home run with one particular offering.” ’ ’   ”I personally never thought we’’d be hiring advisers when I first   started here, but the landscape of financial advice is changing   rapidly and we realized this was something we had to do,” Benke   added.  ’ ”   Betterment’s new offerings allow clients to :   Betterment Plus and Betterment Premium. The latter plan offers   clients unlimited access to human advice. Opting for one the   human plans adds an annual fee of 0. 15% to 0. 25% of assets. ” ”   So, it looks like human advisers can take a sigh of   relief. Their jobs haven’t been replaced yet.  ” ’ ’ ’Get updates in your inbox.’ ’Subscribe to Fintech Briefing and never miss an update!’ ’  might not revolutionize the. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’