’  ’ ’   Two weeks after he found himself running an airline in crisis,   and two weeks before he would end up lying unconscious in a   hospital bed, Oscar Munoz already had a lot on his mind. ’ ”   He had to clean up the mess his  had left.   Negotiations with the flight attendants’ union had broken down.   And five years after a merger with Continental, United still felt   like two airlines. ” ’   But on this day he was thinking about his unhappy workers, and he   could not stop thinking about coffee cups. They were gone from   the office kitchens. Staffers  —   and even executives  —   were so   incensed by the tiny   move that they put it on a list   of the top 10 mistakes they said the company had made in the past   five years. ’ ’   The case of the cups would become something of a symbol of all   that had gone wrong at  and it was up to Munoz to restore the trust of   employees and customers. ’ ’   But before all that he had to cheat death. ’ ’   The United that Munoz took over was anything but united. ’ ”   A merger between Continental and United in 2010 created what was   then the world’s largest airline. But by 2015 the company was   still not integrated. It behaved like two airlines operating   under one name. Former Continental crews called themselves   “ ” and were allowed to fly on Continental’s routes and   planes only, while United’s crews stuck to their premerger planes   and routes. ” ’   The merger had led to contentious labor negotiations. To combine   the two airlines, United had to strike new deals with unions   representing both the pilots and the flight attendants. ’ ’   And under former CEO Jeff Smisek, the Association of Flight     wasn’t even sure they’d reach a deal with United.   After roughly three years of negotiating, the organization’s   international president, Sara Nelson, said they’d only worked   through  % of their issues (resolving less contentious ones   like how to deal with a hostage situation). The two sides were   far apart on key issues, such as pay. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”There was absolutely no serious attempt to reach an agreement.   No serious attempt to try to bring the groups together,” Nelson   told Business Insider. ’ ’   Smisek’s team was playing hardball amid high fuel prices and a   culture of  . ’ ’   Meanwhile, the newly combined United fell behind its competitors.   Its aging planes started to look dated on the inside. Passengers   no longer got snacks. Planes broke down, which led to more   delays. ’ ’   ”They failed to invest in new equipment and refresh their product   offerings,” George Hamlin, president of Hamlin Transportation   Consulting, told Business Insider. ’ ”   Without a union contract, United couldn’t update and integrate   the computers that schedule flights and crews’ schedules. They   were running two separate scheduling systems. As a result, United   had to build in costly extra trips to move planes and flight   attendants around the country. ” ’   Around this time, the chairman of the Port Authority of New York   and New Jersey, David Samson,  from Newark to Columbia, South Carolina, a short drive   from his weekend home. He threatened to block the building of a   Newark maintenance hangar if he didn’t get his weekly service. He   got his way and started calling it the “chairman’s flight” to   friends. But federal prosecutors caught wind of it as they   investigated the closure of the George Washington Bridge ordered   by members of New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie’s administration. ’ ’  ’ ’   It would take a year before Samson pleaded guilty to one count of   bribery. But  abruptly quitting on September 8, 2015. The company   cited an internal investigation into the matter. ’ ’   Munoz started that September day as president and chief operating   officer of the freight railway CSX. By late afternoon he was   being introduced as United’s new CEO on a conference call with   reporters and analysts. ’ ’   After that abrupt start, Munoz took stock. United was a mess. ’ ’   ”We were like a bunch of nomads wandering through the desert. All   with good intentions, but not moving in the same direction,”   Munoz said to employees at a recent conference. ’ ’   Customers were unhappy. United was finishing near the bottom of   JD Power’’s ”” in   2013 and 2014. Its workers were demoralized. ’ ’   For his first 37 days, Munoz traveled around the country on a   “listening tour,” letting United staff vent. ’ ’   ”I would walk into rooms as hostile as any room I’’ve ever been   in,” Munoz told Business Insider in an interview. ’ ’   It wasn’t strategy and business that workers wanted to talk   about. ’ ’   ”It was infinitely more raw and visceral emotion about how they   were mistreated.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Munoz found that small communication breakdowns had snowballed   into major grievances. ’ ’   ”My assessment of everything I was hearing was, ’’This is   personal,’’” he said. ”And I’’m not moving anywhere with this   company until we fix these personal issues.” ’ ’   Which brings us back to those coffee cups. Munoz had asked his   executive team to create a list of ”the top 10 stupid things   we’’ve done in the last five years that you would reverse right   now if you could.” ’ ’   And list they did. They complained about who was hired or   promoted. Some were clearly now in the wrong jobs. ’ ’   That led Munoz to remove or reassign a dozen     executives. He brought back perks that made business travel less   tedious for managers. ’ ’   But the list also pointed out some comparatively minor yet   ”idiotic” decisions, such as removing those Styrofoam coffee cups   from the office. ’ ’   ”We had taken the cups for coffee out of the building as a     measure, but left the coffee,” Munoz said. ”Somebody   thought it was symbolic to do this.” ’ ’   Munoz was so incensed he offered to pay for the coffee cups out   of his own pocket. ’ ”   Oscar Munoz was not the obvious choice to be United’s CEO. He   served on United’s board but had never worked at an airline   before. His résumé featured   executive stints at     and AT&T before arriving at CSX as its chief   financial officer and then chief operating officer, where he was   literally in charge of keeping the trains running on time. ” ’   He was a study in contrasts with his predecessor. A     corporate lawyer, Smisek went to Princeton and Harvard Law. He   rose from Continental’s general counsel to CEO and engineered the   merger with United, coming out on top of the combined company. ’ ’   Munoz is the oldest of nine children. He grew up in Southern   California in a   family, and he’s the first in   his family to graduate from college, from the University of   Southern California. He’s now one of a handful of Hispanic CEOs   in the Fortune 500. ’ ’   His personal style is different. Whereas Smisek could be seen as   aloof, Munoz comes off as warm. He rarely wears a tie and eschews   pomp and circumstance. ’ ’   A marathoner and a vegan, Munoz appeared to be a model of health.   He was a fit    embarking on a new adventure. ’ ’   Day 37 as United’s CEO started as many of his days do, with an     trip to the gym. His wife and kids were still in   Florida, where CSX is based. After his workout, Munoz returned to   the small apartment he was renting in Chicago. Then his legs gave   out. He fell to the floor. His hands felt clammy. ’ ’  ’ ’   Still conscious, he remembered the advice of a cardiologist   friend that at the time he felt was a bit dramatic but ended up   saving his life. ’ ’   ”If you feel anything weird, immediately call 911 and give them   your address because you may not make it past the phone call,”   Munoz said. ’ ’   So he crawled to a landline and called 911, telling the operator   his address as fast as he could. ’ ’   Paramedics rushed to the 12th floor. By the time he reached   Northwestern Memorial Hospital, he was unconscious. ’ ’   He woke up in the ICU. He had just had   surgery. This   . ’ ’   United named Brett Hart, its general counsel, as interim CEO. It   was unclear if Munoz would return. Many of his big changes were   on hold. In total, Munoz would spend five months off the job. ’ ”   But as he waited for a heart transplant, Munoz couldn’t keep   himself out of things. Candidates for top management jobs would   come to his apartment for interviews. Munoz sat there, strapped   to a machine that kept his heart beating. ” ’   On his 57th birthday  —   January 5, 2016  —   Munoz met with his   management team in the morning and went in that afternoon to   receive a new heart. ’ ’   Munoz checked out of the hospital seven days after the  a few hours short of the   heart transplant recovery record set by a   . ”I won my   age group,” the   Munoz said. ’ ”   Just two weeks after the transplant, Munoz made an unexpected   appearance on United’s earnings call before officially returning   to work in March. ” ’   However, during his time away, United’s problems persisted and   some were made worse by the uncertainty caused by the heart   attack. ’ ’   ”The outside conversation and the thinking about where United was   heading next were fairly terrible,” Munoz said. ”The talk ranged   from ’’He’’s not going to live very long’’ to ’’He wasn’’t qualified   to begin with. ’’” ’ ”   This included a  who wanted to install former Continental Airlines   CEO Gordon Bethune as United’s new chairman. ” ’   According to Munoz, even though his team did a great job holding   down the fort, he never doubted he would come back. He was   boosted by bags full of letters, cards, and mugs that arrived   from the company’s workers around the world. ’ ’   Back in the office with a new heart, Munoz was about to make a   move that would finally end the war between management and the   unionized workforce, bringing together the old Continental and   United into one company. ’ ’   Sara Nelson, the head of the flight attendants’ union, says she   met Munoz for the first time in early February 2016. They talked   about whether it would be possible to reach an agreement. ’ ’  ’ ’   At the negotiation table the next day, she could not believe how   different United’s attitude had become. ’ ’   For one thing, United under Munoz was prepared to pay more to its   people. In just four months, United and the AFA resolved all the   differences that had led to a   stalemate under Smisek. ’ ’   ”He has changed the entire culture at United to go from one that   saw employees as a cost and an annoyance almost to understanding   that if the employees are engaged and appreciated, we will be the   driving force that makes United stand out,” said Nelson, who has   been a flight attendant at United for 20 years. ’ ’   Pilots were happier too. ’ ’   First officer Roger Phillips, a spokesman for the United Airlines   branch of the Air Line Pilots Association, said that even though   the pilots were able to reach a joint labor agreement in 2012,   United agreed to a    in   2016, allowing pilots to claw back some of the pay and benefits   cut in the period after  . ’ ’   ”Oscar was under no obligation to do that and he did it anyway,”   Phillips said. ”I believe it was his attempt to win back the   troops, and he has been doing it one troop at a time.” ’ ’   With no prior airline experience, Munoz says there are   peculiarities to the industry that are not his strong suit. ’ ’   But Munoz isn’t afraid to look for help. ’ ’   He’s been filling United’s executive suite with outsiders. A new   head of communications came from Starbucks. The new CFO was about   to launch a startup. ’ ’  ’ ’   But the most unexpected move was poaching American Airlines’   president. ’ ” as one of   the true masters of airline strategy. He knew how to look at an   airport and schedule the most efficient and profitable mix of   flights. He built a career by taking advantage of his   competitors’ —   including United’s  —   past strategic missteps. He   made Philadelphia a better city to connect through via American   than Newark is for United. ” ’   Munoz wanted Kirby for his team and he made him an offer. ’ ’   ”If LeBron James shows up at your practice, you gotta let him   play,” Munoz said in reference to Kirby’’s hiring. ’ ’   It was an unorthodox move. Top executives rarely jump to a   competitor. ’ ’   ”There are many CEOs who would have had a hard time recruiting   someone like Scott Kirby who is so incredibly qualified to really   utilize United’s network to its best ability. That could be a   real threat to some CEOs,”Nelson said. ’ ’   While Munoz focuses on people, Kirby focuses on the      end of business strategy. ’ ”   During the first year of Munoz’s tenure as CEO, the airline   delayed 12. 5 million fewer passengers and lost or delayed 224, 000   fewer bags while completing 38, 000 more flights than the previous   year. ” ’   ”Operationally, it was the best year in company history for every   statistical category,” Kirby told Business Insider. ’ ”   In 2016, the airline’s 80, 000 employees earned $628 million in    . ” ”   Things are good for the airline industry as a whole. The plunge   in   prices boosted profits at all three major US   carriers. United and Delta can both boast   stock   prices and, along with American, they’ve drawn  who is now the largest or     shareholder in each. ” ’  ’ ’   But for Munoz, there is still a lot of work to be done. ’ ”   It will take years for United’s aging fleet to be replaced by a   next generation of airliners. The same goes for the airline’s   . In addition, the union contracts that were ratified in   2016 still need to be put into practice. ” ’   And then there’s the task of fixing the strategic shortcomings   that have plagued United over the years. ’ ’   ”Fundamentally, they’’re not generating enough income from what   should be the best network of hubs in America,” Vinay Bhaskara, a   senior business analyst at Airways Magazine, said of United’s   major operations in cities such as Chicago, Houston, New York,   and San Francisco. ”They don’’t do a particularly good job   capitalizing on the commercial opportunities provided by these   cities.” ’ ”   If there has been a single moment that has shown how United is   changing under Munoz, it came in February at the company’s annual   Global Leadership Conference. ” ’   The airline’s top 700 managers convene in Chicago every year for   what’s a short series of drab PowerPoint presentations about the   state of the company and a lunch. Informative but not inspiring. ’ ’   Munoz wanted this year to be different  —   a   blowout that   started with dancing, yelling, and packing meals for children in   need. There were balloons. The famed Second City comedy club did   improv. ’ ’   A company that had until recently felt like two entities was now   working together in concert. Former United managers were beside   their peers from Continental. ’ ’  ’ ”   Amid all this, an unassuming   man wearing a blue suit   but no tie slipped into the room. There was no entourage in   sight. He made his way to the stage and started taking smartphone   photos of the crowd packing meals. Few noticed that it was their   CEO up there. There was no speech. He stepped off and chatted   with whomever was in his path. He struck up a conversation with   the infectiously energetic David Hilfman, United’s global head of   sales, who was wearing a hairnet and apron. ” ”   Later, Munoz would give a speech about the need for empathy. He   said the company had lost the trust of many employees. He said he   wants to earn their trust back through action, even if it’s as   simple as having coffee cups in the kitchen. ” ’Two weeks after he found himself running an. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’