’’ ”Tesla is headed into fourth quarter and   2016 earnings next week with arguably the biggest head of financial steam in the company’s history. ” ”A surprise profit in the third quarter last year, coupled with Donald Trump’s win in the election and the assumption that an   manufacturing policy favors Tesla, has sent shares on an epic rally. The stock has risen as much as 50% of the past three months, surging toward $300 and ending last week above $270.” ”Tesla has watched its stock soar in the past, only to reliably plummet  —   or, if not that, the revert to trading levels that don’t register a $   market cap, right up their with the Ford Motor Company, but something close to $30 billion, which in the assessment of many market pros is, frankly, bonkers for a carmaker that sold only about 80, 000 vehicles in 2016.” ”The   ride that is Tesla investing has certainly been intense, but over the past two years some interesting new patterns have developed. It’s also worth taking into account that Tesla financial reporting and market value have gotten far more complex with the 2016 acquisition of SolarCity for just over $2 billion, a price that also bought Tesla billions in debt. ” ”I thought it might worth it to take a look back at Tesla’s history  —   a story in stock charts:” ’As you can see from the chart, Tesla was basically flat for several years after the 2010 IPO. In 2008, the carmaker had endured a   experience, and in the   to the IPO and afterwards, it was selling only one car, the original Roadster. ’ ”The game plan at this point was for CEO Elon Musk and his team to keep the lights on long enough the roll out Tesla’s first    car, the Model S sedan.” ’That happened in 2012, and for 2013, Motor Trend named the Model S it Car of the Year. At this point, the stock took off.’ ”And as you can see, if you bought Tesla right after the IPO and held on, you’d be looking at an 1, 000%  return today.” ”Because Tesla took off so fast as a stock and quickly achieved an impressive market cap for a company that, in 2013, was selling almost no cars (even if the ones it was selling cost more $100, 000 apiece) a stable price wasn’t in the picture. ” ’Investor confidence would soar, then collapse, with sentiment turning on ever news event, product announcement or delay, quarterly earnings report, and   Muskian tweet.’ ’Rapid   were followed by jerky declines. Jagged recoveries presaged vertiginous descents. At one point, Musk himself said that the company was overvalued. Unlike the rest of the industry, with its slow, predictable stock behavior for publicly traded carmakers, and with its long business cycles, Tesla was behaving more like a Silicon Valley tech company.’ ”Analysts fixated on the pace of deliveries as the best indicator of how Tesla was performing and whether there was sufficient demand for Tesla electric cars, in a market that otherwise didn’t seem to want them, to justify the monumental valuation. Eventually, Tesla began reporting quarterly sales, mainly to give Wall Street something to go on.” ’In 2015, the   Model X SUV was added to the lineup, enhancing sales and giving Tesla a vehicle to use to compete in the booming crossover market. But the Model X arrived three years late, and its tremendous complexity meant that Tesla spent the first half of 2016 sorting out myriad production issues.’ ’Some compensation arrived in the form of the reveal of the Model 3   vehicle  —   $35, 000 before tax breaks, with a    range on a single charge. Tesla quickly racked up 373, 000   for the vehicle, at $1, 000 a pop.’ ’Meanwhile, Tesla had steadily improved the Model S, culminating in the P100D, whose blistering acceleration gave a better   mph time than many supercars. A massive Gigafactory battery plant was opened in Nevada, a new energy storage business was rolled out, and the SolarCity acquisition happened. ’ ”Wall Street was losing the thread, however. Tesla wasn’t a very good car manufacturer, consistently missing its deliveries guidance, and investors began to figure this out. While the tech side of Tesla was doing some stunning stuff with Autopilot   a driver died in an accident while using the system in 2016, leading to uncertainly about Musk’s ambitions. ” ’The wild volatility had briefly faded, only to return. And until the tail end of 2016, Tesla was enduring a slow stock slide. Fortunately for Musk, the company has executed a capital raise before the skepticism set it.’ ’At first, it looked like a massive short squeeze  —   Tesla has always been a popular stock to short.’ ”But notice the slope of that line on the chart: it’s nice and smooth and even, with the stock steadily consolidating its gains and not giving anything back until quite recently.” ”So what’s happened to the   ride? This looks more like a leisurely, affluent march up a gentle mountain.” ”This isn’t what we’re used to seeing from Tesla shares. The timing is also   . ” ”Tesla’s pattern is to miss deliveries while increasing production, raise concerns about   relative to Musk’s ambition to be selling 500, 000 vehicles annually by 2018, and see the stock take a dive early in a year. ” ”Usually, the recovery doesn’t arrive until halfway through the year, once Wall Street draws a bead on how the deliveries guidance will shape up for the full year.” ”The only major thing that’s changed for Tesla since the end of 2016 is that Trump is President and Musk has the Donald’s ear (he’s on two White House committees). Is that really enough to yield a 50% rally? And a pretty uneventful one, at that?” ’You could be forgiven for asking why Washington has descended into chaos while Tesla shares have been relatively free of it.’ ’Over the past two years, Tesla has been a highly volatile stock that has at times baffled investors.’ ’There was only one period of smooth price growth, and it gave way to a reliable pattern of volatility that preceded a massive drop. ’ ’Another period of wild volatility happened before a doldrumy episode prior the the most recent rally, which has been distinguished by its smoothness.’ ’Up until the recent rally, my take was that Wall Street had figured out that Tesla was a car company, not a tech company, and had reset its expectations about growth. ’ ’But the Trump Bump surge made me question that. Was growth enthusiasm somehow back for Musk and his team?’ ”The only way we’ll find out is if earnings next week are really weak, the stock tanks, and a volatile   cycle returns. If we see less of a   ride, however, we could be in uncharted investment territory for Tesla. ” ’Tesla is headed into fourth quarter and. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’