’  ’ ”   For some of Denise Shull’s clients, being in a slump might mean   losing millions of dollars of other people’s money. ” ’   Shull is the founder of  a   performance coaching group that specializes in clients on Wall   Street.    the   psychiatrist at the fictional hedge fund at the   center of Showtime’’s hit show ”Billions.” ’ ”   Shull studied the neuropsychology of unconscious thought at the   University of Chicago and spent 15 years as an equities trader.   They are two worlds she combined when she started ReThink in   2003, putting her own spin on the niche market of Wall Street   performance coaching,  who was   employed by Steve Cohen’s hedge fund SAC Capital. ” ”   Perhaps the most defining characteristic of Shull’s approach is   that nearly all of us, regardless of what industry we are in,   have a misconception about how the mind works and thus how we can   recover from failure: We think we can will ourselves   to success. ” ’   ”The conventional wisdom on feelings and emotions is just wrong,”   she told Business Insider. ’ ’  ’ ’   Shull thinks many people have assumptions based on an outdated   theory of the ”triune brain,” which basically says emotions,   thoughts, and basic functions are handled separately within the   brain; the reality, she says, is that all three of these roles   are related in brain mechanics. ’ ’   Too many people, she said, think that ”if we have a plan and that   we’’re disciplined then we’’ll be able to do the things that we   want. . .. It doesn’’t work like that.” ’ ”   It’s why Shull has clients in the first place, she explained. The   clients know that they are underperforming and they see their   mistakes. But no pep talk from a manager or colleague and no    can get them back to their peak. ” ’   Instead, she recommends her clients  —   and anyone else struggling   through a slump  —   identify and name the feelings they are   attaching to the weaknesses causing them to fail, and dive right   in. By embracing these feelings, her clients can come to   understand them, strip them of power, and then replace them with   desired emotions. The thoughts follow the feelings, she insists,   counter to what people often think. ’ ’   ”Sometimes I feel like I’’m just going to gag, if I have to read   ’’mental toughness’’ one more time,” she said. ”Like ugh, just   being tough doesn’’t get you the result you want. It fails you at   the worst possible moment. . .. And then all those feelings come   crashing in and cause you to be self destructive or not perform   up to your potential.” ’ ”For some of Denise Shull’s clients, being in a. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’