’  ’ ’   Snapchat executives hit the  to lure investors into what could be the   biggest   stock offering in years.  ’ ”   The schedule of meetings will take them to London on Monday, and   New York on Tuesday, and eventually across the US. And if it’s   like other   tech deals of recent years, they’ll draw   a standing room only crowd of analysts and fund managers looking   to get a feel of what the buzz is about. ” ’   Already, though, Snap Inc. has raised some eyebrows on Wall   Street. After people close to the company floated the idea that   it would be valued at up to $25 billion  —   for months  —   it hits   the road with a price range that puts its maximum value at closer   to $22 billion. ’ ”   It’s not a massive difference, but it was enough to raise the   question of what happened. There are plenty of reasons for   investors to be skeptical of the company’s disappearing message   app. One is simply that its user base is young, and that means   plenty of decision makers on Wall Street won’t even understand   what it is.  ” ’   Snap knows this and  is simply a lesson   on how the app works. People close to the company said   that preliminary meetings with investors and analysts, late   last year, included this lesson.  ’ ”   Then there’s the question of its valuation. Even if $22 billion   is lower than it might have sought, the company only reported   $400 million of revenue in 2016 and no profits. Also, it has a   share structure that means investors paying that will get no say   in how it is run.  ” ’   So is that all getting baked into the price already? Maybe.    that one reason for the slightly lower   valuation reflected feedback from those preliminary   meetings.  ’ ”   One person close to the situation told Business Insider that Snap   is playing it safe with the intention of going higher as soon as   demand merits. Conversely, asking for the full $25 billion   and being forced to roll it back if investor demand isn’t high   enough would be a worse outcome that taints the company’s trading   debut.  ” ’  ’ ’   The company said Thursday it was seeking to price shares at $14   to $16, but this person  —   who asked not to be identified   discussing the situation  —   said the only acceptable price, in   reality, will be $16 per share or more.  ’ ”   This person expects Snap’s order book to be oversubscribed,   meaning there will be demand for more shares than it is   selling. ” ’   ”If you look at Twitter, Facebook, or Alibaba, there’’s a pretty    ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’emphasize quality of engagement over quantity of   users. He wants his existing users to really enjoy the   product and is focused on innovating to make it more   usable.  ’ ’   Part of that means users must have   smart phones.   Snapchat works best on iPhones, and while some problems persist   on Android and other phones, Spiegel says he will not dilute   the product to make it work on every phone. ’ ’   So unlike Facebook, which has nearly 2 billion users around   the world, Snap will not focus on    customers in   places like the developing world because those markets are not   easily monetized. The logic is that advertisers want to   reach North America and develop Europe rather than the rest of   world.  ’ ’   In  it said its biggest revenue   opportunity is the growing budget for worldwide mobile   advertising, which could reach $196 billion by 2020 from $66   billion currently. ’ ’   Snap’’s business is to ”create the best camera platform so we can   drive engagement and monetize that engagement through   advertising,” Chief Strategy Officer Imran Khan said in the   video. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Consumer tech investors Goodwater Capital estimate Snap will grow   revenue to $1. 10 billion in 2017, $1. 94 billion in 2018, and   $2. 75 billion in 2019. They estimate the company will turn its   first profit in 2020. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”While on an absolute basis, the valuation appears high from an   investor’’s   perspective, I think Snap becomes very   much the next Instagram, or possibly bigger,” the existing Snap   investor, whose fund has a $150 million stake in the company,   told Business Insider. ’ ’   Instagram, a   social media network, is owned by   Facebook.  ’ ’  ’ ’Snapchat executives hit the road on Friday to. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’