’  ’ ’   Fox News anchor Chris Wallace pressed President Donald Trump’’s   chief of staff, Reince Priebus, to explain why the president   characterized the media as the ”.” ’ ’   In an interview on ”Fox News Sunday,” Wallace asked Priebus   if Trump believes that ”a ’ ”that members   of Trump’s presidential campaign communicated with Russian   intelligence officials during the campaign. ” ’   ”There are certain things that are happening in the news that   just aren’’t honest. We’’re not talking about everyone, Chris.   We’’re not talking about all news. We are talking about something   he’’s termed as fake news,” Priebus said. ’ ’   When the chief of staff dismissed the recent reports about   Trump’’s potential ties to Russia as ”total garbage,” Wallace said   the president’’s rhetoric did not have the nuance   Priebus was articulating. ’ ’’ ’   ”Reince, here’’s the problem. I don’’t have any problem with you   complaining about an individual story. We sometimes get it wrong,   you guys sometimes get it wrong. I don’’t have any problem with   you complaining about bias,” Wallace said. ’ ’   ”But the president went a lot further than that. He said that the   ’’fake media,’’ not certain stories, the ’’fake media,’’ are an enemy   to the country. We don’’t have a   media in this country.   That’’s what they have in dictatorships,” Wallace continued. ’ ’   Priebus argued that ””all day long, on every chyron, every seven   minutes.” ’ ’   ”As soon as it was over, the next 20 hours is all about   Russian spies, how no one gets along, how nothing’’s   happening. Give me a break,” Priebus said. ’ ’   ”You don’’t get to tell us what to do, Reince. You don’’t get to   tell us what to do any more than Barack Obama did. Barack Obama   whined about Fox News all the time, but I’’ve got to say, he never   said we were an enemy of the people,” Wallace replied. ’ ’   After Priebus said he was ”surprised” Wallace would forget ”all   the shots” that Obama took at Fox News, the anchor interjected. ’ ’   ”He took the shots, and we didn’’t like them, and frankly, we   don’’t like this either. But he never went as far as President   Trump has. And that’’s what’’s concerning. Because it seems like he   crosses a line when he says that we’’re the enemy of the people,”   Wallace said. ’ ’   ”I think you should be concerned about mainstream news outlets   that are acting like Washington daily gossip magazines,” Priebus   replied. ’ ’   Though media criticism was a staple of his presidential campaign,   Trump has ratcheted up his attacks on many  singling out   CNN, the Wall Street Journal, and the New York Times for   publishing negative reports about his White House, often   relying on anonymous sources. ’ ’   The president  in a kind of   of the media during a   press conference on Thursday, predicting how some outlets would   report on his    screed against many of the   journalists in the room. ’ ’   ”I used to give a news conference every day. That’’s how I won,   with news conference, and probably speeches. I certainly didn’’t   win with people listening to you people. But I’’m having a good   time. Tomorrow they will say, ’’Donald Trump rants and raves. ’’ I’’m   not ranting and raving. I’’m just telling you people,” Trump said. ’ ’Fox News anchor Chris Wallace pressed President. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’