’  ’ ’   The controversy surrounding the role President Trump’’s lawyer   played in pushing a ”peace plan” for Russia and Ukraine on the   National Security Council is ”an absurd attempt to distract” from   Trump’’s reforms, the White House told Business Insider on   Tuesday. ’ ”   Trump’s personal lawyer, Michael Cohen, was at the center of a    published Sunday that said he had     a plan to former National Security Adviser Michael   Flynn before Flynn was asked to resign. The plan reported in the   paper involved lifting sanctions on Russia in return for Moscow   withdrawing its support for   separatists in Ukraine. ” ’   ”No one in the White House  —   including the President, Vice   President and senior members of the NSC [National Security   Council]  —   has spoken to Mr. Cohen about any   peace   proposal, and no one has spoken to Andrii Artemenko at all about   any matter,” a White House spokesperson told Business Insider on   Tuesday, referring to the Ukrainian lawmaker who had reportedly   helped draft the peace plan. ’ ’   ”In addition, the NSC keeps comprehensive records of documents   received, and we have no record of receiving any proposal from   Mr. Cohen,” the spokesperson said. ”This is another absurd,   misleading attempt to distract from the real reform taking place   under President Trump. ” ’ ”   The plan’s existence was first reported by  which said Cohen met with Artemenko and   businessman Felix Sater in a hotel lobby on Park Avenue in   Manhattan in late January to discuss it. The Times said Cohen had   told the publication that he had left with the plan in a sealed   envelope, which he delivered to Flynn. ” ’’ ”   Hours after the Times story was published, however, Cohen    that he hadn’t delivered the peace   plan to Flynn or discussed it with anyone in the White House. ” ’    ’ ’   Finally, on Monday afternoon, Cohen  in a series of text messages that he   denies ”even knowing what the plan is.” ’ ’   In a later message, however, Cohen acknowledged that he had met   with Artemenko in New York for ”under 10 minutes” to discuss a   proposal that Artemenko said ”was acknowledged by Russian   authorities that would create world peace.” ’ ’   ”My response was, ’’Who doesn’’t want world peace? ’’” Cohen said. ’ ’   One of the Times reporters who broke the story, Scott Shane,   pointed Business Insider to a statement the newspaper’’s deputy   managing editor gave on Sunday: ”Mr. Cohen told The Times in no   uncertain terms that he delivered the Ukraine proposal to Michael   Flynn’’s office at the White House. Mr. Sater told the Times that   Mr. Cohen had told him the same thing.” ’ ’  ’ ’The controversy surrounding the role President. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’