’  ’ ”   Democratic Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse this week said he’s sure the     cloud hanging over President Donald Trump’s   administration will not be clearing up any time soon. ” ’   And Republicans, he said, are beginning to take the accusations   much more seriously. ’ ’   Whitehouse, the Rhode Island senator and the ranking member on   the Senate Judiciary subcommittee investigating Russia’’s role in   the 2016 election, spoke with Business Insider this week while   promoting his newly released book, ”.” ’ ’   The Rhode Island Democrat said the investigation from the Senate   subcommittee, which is chaired by Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham   of South Carolina, will first explore the ”toolbox that Russia   uses in our elections and in other elections to try to engage in   election manipulation.” ’ ’   The subcommittee will then evaluate the legality of what took   place during the election. Several intelligence agencies   concluded that Russia  and harm Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton. ’ ’’ ’   Whitehouse said the subcommittee investigation will consist of   ”three big buckets.” ’ ’   ”Russia’’s importance to Trump’’s business enterprises and what   influence that may have over his conduct, traditional     kompromat, and then engagement between his campaign   and the Russians around the torquing of the election away from   Hillary,” he said. ”It’’s one thing if they torqued the election   away from Hillary and gave it to him, it’’s another if they were   conspiring with each other or planning with each other. The first   is bad, the second is . .. worse.” ’ ’   Recently, reports have surfaced that several Trump   associates . Trump has denied any knowledge   of such contact. Additionally, Michael Flynn resigned as   national security adviser last week after multiple outlets   reported he discussed sanctions with a Russian ambassador prior   to Trump taking office, and then was not forthright about the   content of his communications with Vice President Mike Pence. ’ ’   Trump has attempted to downplay the stories related to Russia,   saying during a press conference last week that ”Russia is fake   news.” ’ ”   Many of these reports, Whitehouse said, have led his Republican   colleagues to become increasingly concerned about Trump’s alleged   ties to Russia. ” ’   ”The private conversation around the Senate is that, very much,   this is serious,” he said. ”The experienced Washington reporters   that you talk to are all digging. And many of them are very   optimistic about being able to find significant things. Somebody   in politics can tell when the dogs are hunting, and when they’’re   just running around. And these dogs are hunting. They’’re making   game. They’’re on their business.” ’ ’   He added that intelligence officials and law enforcement has made   it clear ”this is a long way from over.” ’ ’   ”So I think that helps,” he said. ”And then I think they wouldn’’t   put it past Trump to do any of this stuff for a second.” ’ ’   ”I think it’’s all converging to a point where people are   collectively holding their breath and we will see what is the   next shoe to drop,” he continued. ”My personal observation is   that there is very little good will for this man with Republicans   in the Senate.” ’ ”   But senators do not want to cross Trump’s loyal voters,   Whitehouse said, adding that the appearance of going after him   too soon would be politically costly for his GOP colleagues. ” ’   ”But, if something comes out that changes that dynamic, if the   switch flips, the elevator goes straight to the basement,” he   said. ”There’’s very little in terms of arms reaching out to help   him.” ’ ’Democratic Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse this week. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’