’  ’ ”   The man who  once   refused the movie industry’s heftiest honor. ” ’   On March 5, 1973, Marlon Brando  for his     performance as Vito Corleone in ”The Godfather.” He   did so for an unexpected reason. ’ ’   In the 1960s, Brando’’s career had slid into decline. His previous   two movies  —   the famously   ”  Jacks” and   ”Mutiny on the Bounty”  —   . Some critics    ”Mutiny” marked the end of Hollywood’’s   golden age, and worse still,    turned him into one of the least desirable actors to work with in   some ways. ’ ’   Brando’’s career needed saving. ”The Godfather” was his   defibrillator. ’ ”   In the epic portrayal of a 1940s New York Mafia family directed   by Francis Ford Coppola, Brando plays the patriarch, the original   don. Though the film follows his son Michael (played by Al   Pacino) Vito Corleone is its spine. A ruthless, violent   criminal, he loves and protects the family by any means   necessary. It’s the warmth of his humanity that makes him   indestructible  —   a paradox shaped by Brando’s remarkable   performance. ” ’   ”The Godfather”  and is   heralded as one of the greatest films of all time. Pinned against     —   Michael   Caine, Laurence Olivier, and Peter O’’Toole  —   Brando was favored   to win best actor. ’ ’   On the eve of the 45th Academy Awards, Brando announced that he   would boycott the ceremony and send  a   actress, in   his place. She was the president of the National Native American   Affirmative Image Committee. ’ ’  ’ ’   On the evening of March 5, when Liv Ullman and Roger Moore read   the name of the   recipient, neither presenter parted   their lips in a smile. Their gaze fell on a woman in Apache   dress, whose long, dark hair bobbed against her shoulders as she   climbed the stairs. ’ ’   Moore extended the award to Littlefeather, who waved it away with   an open palm. She set down a letter on the podium, introduced   herself, : ’ ’   The crowd booed. Littlefeather looked down and said, ”Excuse me.”   Others in the audience began to clap, cheering her on. She   continued only briefly, to ”beg” that her appearance was not an   intrusion and say that they would ”meet with love and generosity”   in the future. ’ ’   Watch the scene unfold: ’ ’ ’ ’   In 1973, Native Americans had ”virtually no representation in the   film industry and were primarily used as extras,” Dina     a Native American studies scholar, . ”Lead   roles depicting Indians in several generations of Westerns were   almost always given to white actors.” ’ ”   But they weren’t just neglected or replaced in film  —   they were   disrespected. That realization hurt Brando’s perception of the   film industry. ” ’  ’ ’   The next day,   —   which Littlefeather was unable to read in full   because of . Brando expressed support for the   American Indian Movement and referenced the ongoing situation at   Wounded Knee, where a team of 200 Oglala Lakota activists had   occupied a tiny South Dakota town the previous month and was   currently under siege by US military forces. He wrote: ’ ’   A tsunami of criticism  toppled Brando and Littlefeather   after the Oscars. ’ ”   Still, the Native American community had a rare opportunity to   raise awareness of their fight in front of 85 million viewers,   leveraging an entertainment platform for political justice in   unprecedented fashion. Brando’s controversial rejection of the   award (which no winner has repeated since) remains one of the   most powerful moments in Oscar history. ” ”The man who made offers others couldn’t refuse. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’