’  ’ ’   FBI experts warn that the bureau is on the ”slipperiest of   slopes” by reportedly revealing information about an ongoing   investigation to President Donald Trump’’s administration. ’ ”   And they say it all began with Hillary Clinton’s email   investigation. ” ”   While  and the  versions of the story differ, Trump’s Chief of   Staff Reince Priebus and FBI deputy director Andrew McCabe   allegedly discussed an open FBI investigation that members of   Trump’s presidential campaign had multiple contacts with Russian   operatives. ” ”   The FBI notoriously doesn’t comment on open investigations, and   hasn’t spoken up about this incident.  so that the bureau can remain independent from   political influence  —   and experts caution that independence could   be at risk. ” ’  ’ ”   Experts trace the current quagmire back to when FBI Director   James Comey    declaring that he was reopening the bureau’s investigation into   Clinton’s use of a private email server while secretary of state.   Just three days before Election Day,  announcing the FBI had cleared Clinton   of any wrongdoing, again. ” ”   Timothy Murphy, a former deputy director of the FBI who served   under multiple administrations, said the FBI is realizing they   shouldn’t repeat what they did with the Clinton case, and should   revert to their   history. ” ’   ”If you come out one time, even in this rare case, and you talk   publicly about an investigation, then I think it gives people  —     the American public, Congress, the administration  —   some leverage   over you to start saying, ’’Well you talked about this   investigation, why can’’t you talk about this next one?” he told   Business Insider. ”Once you start down that slippery slope about   talking about investigations, it puts you into a box, and they’’ve   got to get back out of that.” ’ ’   James Wedick, a retired agent who spent 35 years at the FBI,   agreed that the bureau was in ”uncharted waters” because of   Comey’’s actions, and said he used to tell his agents to ”just say   no” when anyone asked them to discuss investigations. ’ ’   ”The problem is the questions never end. It’’s never just one   question. It just begets a whole series of other questions,” he   told Business Insider. ”Today, the bureau is into the argument.   Now it’’s going on forever. And there are more questions. Each   time that happens, the public’’s trust in the bureau becomes   undermined. That’’s why it shouldn’’t happen. That’’s where they   find themselves today. It’’s a complicated mess.” ’ ’   Murphy and Wedick both said FBI agents should ”keep their heads   down,” try to ignore the political noise as much as they can, and   focus on their jobs to get out of this ”box.” ’ ’   Sanford J. Ungar, an FBI historian at Georgetown University,   warned that if the bureau tells the Trump administration about   open investigations, it could be in danger of being perceived as   a puppet investigative agency like ones in some South American or   European countries, as opposed to the fiercely independent   organization that it has been for decades. ’ ’   ”Once that happens, then there’’s always going to be suspicion   about whether the bureau is going to be used, or is going   straight down the middle and investigating the facts,” he told   Business Insider. ”If it appears it belongs to one party, or one   administration, or one official within an administration, then   it’’s on the road to perdition.” ’ ’FBI experts warn that the bureau is on the. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’