’  ’ ’   President Donald Trump prompted audible groans during his   joint address to Congress on Tuesday night, when he brought up   plans to highlight crimes committed by undocumented immigrants   and create a Victims of Immigration Crime Engagement (VOICE)   office. ’ ’   ”We are providing a voice to those who have been ignored by our   media, and silenced by special interests,” Trump said,   introducing four guests he had invited whose family members had   allegedly been killed by immigrants living in the US illegally. ’ ’   ”To Jamiel, Jenna, Susan, and Jessica: I want you to know  —   we   will never stop fighting for justice. Your loved ones will never   be forgotten, we will always honor their memory,” Trump said. ’ ’   The creation of  VOICE has prompted confusion and anger   among immigration experts and advocates, who have been quick to   point out that targeting criminal immigrants makes little sense   given crime statistics on the matter. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”The fact is, you can find crimes committed by any group, no   matter how you define them. Immigrants,   white men,   Latino men  —   you’’re going to find criminals of any demographic   category. And to choose one and blame them for crime in general   is just very disingenuous,” said Walter Ewing, a  who   added that VOICE is nothing short of ”scapegoating.” ’ ’   Given that there is no data that proves undocumented   immigrants are a demographic intrinsically prone to crime,   blaming immigrants as a group for crime is poor logic, Ewing told   Business Insider. ’ ’  ’ ”   Trump’s message wasn’t lost on his supporters, however, who   approved of the way he specifically addressed victims’ families. ” ’   ”What President Trump did, and no other candidate on   either side has acknowledged, is the tragic effects of illegal   immigration,” Maria Espinoza, national director of the   Remembrance Project, which advocates for victims of crimes   committed by unauthorized immigrants, told . ’ ’    A  released by Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly last   week detailed the department’’s plans for the office, including   the creation of a ”programmatic liaison” between its Immigration   and Customs Enforcement agency and victims of crimes committed by   unauthorized immigrants. ’ ’   The office will be funded by the resources that currently go   toward advocacy efforts for undocumented immigrants, according to   the memo, and the liaison will ensure the victims and their   families are given information about offenders, including their   immigration and custody statuses. ICE is currently ”drafting   outreach materials” for victims, . ’ ’   Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer called the VOICE program   ”ridiculous” on Wednesday, and said law enforcement should   be targeting all crime  —   not just those incidents that   involve immigrants. ’ ’   ”The overwhelming majority of immigrants are   they   want to be part of the American dream, and most Americans agree   with that,”  on CBS This Morning. ”So to put an office like this   out there shows how   this president is.” ’ ’   Drawing a connection between immigrants and crime with no   evidence can prove dangerous for undocumented immigrants who   may now find themselves targeted by   groups who   now feel ”emboldened” by Trump’’s presidency, Ewing said. ’ ’   Last week, for instance, a gunman allegedly opened fire on two   Indian men in an Olathe, Kansas bar, killing one and injuring the   other, as well as a bystander who tried to intervene. ’ ’   Alok Madasani, the injured victim,  that the shooter had asked the two   men whether they were in the country illegally and which visas   they held  —   questions which critics say were  to garner   political appeal. ’ ’   ”We are looking at some of not only the most   and     policies in our history, but also the creation of   this nativist, xenophobic culture that actually is what has   allowed for two guest workers from India to have been killed last   week,” Marielena Hincapié, executive director of the National   Immigration Law Center  Wednesday. ’ ’   ”The hate crimes that have happened in this country since the   election have not happened in a vacuum. They have happened   because hate speech results in hate crimes and hate incidents.” ’ ’   The  has backed this assertion up,   calling 2016 an ”unprecedented” year for hate due to the growth   in the number of hate groups in the US to 917 from 892 the year   earlier. ’ ’   ”The country saw a resurgence of white nationalism that imperils   the racial progress we’ve made, along with the rise of a   president whose policies reflect the values of white   nationalists,” the SPLC’’s Mark Potok said. ’ ’   Trump addressed the Olathe shooting in his speech Tuesday,   following several days of criticism for not mentioning it sooner:   ”We are a country that stands united in condemning hate and evil   in all its forms,” he said. ’ ”   But Ewing said Trump’s   rhetoric and policies have   already been percolating for some time  —   and he has now made   those ideas mainstream. ” ’   ”It’’s not that he’’s directly provoking them, but the     groups see his presidency as a validation of their   beliefs, and as a license to do what they’’ve always wanted to do,   which is attack immigrants either literally or figuratively,”   he said. ’ ’President Donald Trump prompted audible. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’