’  ’ ’   President Donald Trump has an explanation for why  for 516 key     positions. ’ ’   ”In many cases, we don’’t want to fill those jobs,”  on Tuesday morning. ”A lot of those jobs I   don’’t want to appoint because they’’re unnecessary to have.” ’ ”   So far, Trump’s pace of nominations  former President   Obama’s: Trump has nominated 33 people, compared to 49 for Obama   at this point in 2009. However, a 2010 law was supposed to help   this president get people in place faster than previous   ones by starting the transition earlier, in the August before the   election. ” ”   If Trump is serious about his stated intention to leave a lot of   jobs unfilled, then his agenda is likely to be undermined. Just   because you leave a job unfilled doesn’t mean it doesn’t get   done. Often, it means it gets done by someone who isn’t loyal to   you. ” ”   If you don’t put your people in jobs at departments and agencies,   then holdover staff and civil servants will have more control   over what those agencies do. ” ’’ ’   I suspect Trump understands this on some level, given how much he   has complained  —   not always without cause  —      and are trying to stop him from implementing his agenda. ’ ”   Trump’s claim that he wants to leave many jobs open might just be   his excuse for a transition process that has been slowed by the   reluctance of some Republican policy experts to go to work in   this administration, Trump’s insistence in many cases on finding   candidates who were loyal to him through the election, disputes   between the White House and agencies over staffing choices, and   the disorganization that stemmed from Trump’s choice to fire   transition head Chris Christie right after the election. ” ’   Still, there are reasons Trump is not good at staffing up and   strategizing about how to deal with a hostile bureaucracy. It’’s   not an accident that the man’’s slogan is ”You’’re fired” and not   ”You’’re hired.” ’ ”   It’s one more reason I expect a lower quantity of policy out of   this administration than its backers hope or its detractors fear.   If personnel is policy, then choosing not to have personnel is   . ” ’President Donald Trump has an explanation for. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’