’  ’ ”   Snapchat’s parent company, Snap Inc. just raised $3. 4 billion in   the tech industry’s largest initial public offering in over two   years. ” ’   Snap sold 200 million shares at $17 apiece, valuing the company   at $23. 8 billion, according to a person familiar with the matter. ’ ’   It had  by offering the shares at between $14 and   $16  —   for a maximum valuation of about $22 billion. ’ ”   It’s the   tech IPO since Alibaba Group raised $25   billion in 2014, and represents an important milestone for the      Los Angeles startup, whose messaging app has become   wildly popular with teenagers and is a growing threat to   established internet companies such as Facebook and Twitter. ” ’   Demand for the IPO was heavy, and by Tuesday prospective   investors were being told there was enough demand to .    The deal was more than 10 times covered, meaning there was more   than $30 billion in demand for the shares, according to the   person familiar with the matter. The majority of the allocation   went to mutual funds that are likely to hold the shares for the   long term, the person said.    An investor who spoke with Business Insider said they had been   advised that mutual funds were concerned about the price being   too high. ’ ’   Shares are scheduled to begin trading on Thursday under the   ticker SNAP. ’ ”   Investors had to weigh the potential for the     app to serve as an advertising platform   that can live up to its lofty valuation. Goldman Sachs, one of   the banks on the deal, is predicting that Snap’s revenue will   rise to   —   which would mark a fivefold increase   over 2016 sales. ” ”   The rate of Snap’s   growth was a focus of the company’s   roadshow meeting with prospective shareholders, according to   those in attendance, with many asking about the causes of the   slowdown and how much of an issue it might be. ” ’   ”The deceleration in user growth is a clear indicator that Snap   is losing its snap,” said Lee Bressler, a portfolio manager at   Carbon Investment Partners, a small hedge fund, ahead of the IPO   pricing. ”Instagram’’s Stories feature is a direct competitor and   will continue to take market share. This could be the next   Twitter or, worse, Myspace.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Twitter, which went public in 2013, is struggling to grow its   user base, and investors who held the stock for the past three   years have been punished for it: At about $16 a share, the stock   is well below its IPO price of $26. ’ ’   Still, for now, investors have set those concerns aside to focus   on the potential. ’ ”   In the company’s  Snap said its biggest revenue opportunity   is the growing budget for worldwide mobile advertising, which   could reach $196 billion by 2020 from $66 billion currently. ” ’   Snap’’s business is to ”create the best camera platform so we can   drive engagement and monetize that engagement through   advertising,”  said in a video posted as   the IPO kicked off. Snapchat runs   ads on its Stories   feature, which appear for users in between their friends’’   stories. It also partners with companies that sponsor custom   filters, which users can apply to the images and videos they   take. ’ ’ Rachael Levy contributed reporting. ’ ”Snapchat’s parent company, Snap Inc. just. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’