’  ’ ’   Attorney General Jeff Sessions on Thursday said he would recuse   himself from investigations involving the Trump campaign amid a   firestorm over his contacts with Russian officials during the   2016 election, but he stood firm on the answers he gave during   his Senate confirmation hearing about his past communications. ’ ’   Sessions  and held a press conference in which he said he   would recuse himself from any investigations ”of any matters   related in any way to the campaigns for President of the United   States.” ’ ”   The Wall Street Journal had  that the FBI had opened an inquiry into   contacts that Sessions may have had with Russian officials in the   spring and summer of last year, part of a     counterintelligence investigation into possible contacts between   President Trump’s associates and Russian operatives. ” ”   It is unclear whether Sessions’ contact is still being examined. ” ’   Sessions denied during his confirmation hearing that he had ever   communicated with any Russian officials while he was a top Trump   campaign surrogate. ’ ’’ ”   During his press conference, Sessions emphasized that he didn’t   meet with Russian operatives about the Trump campaign during the   election. ” ’   ”Let me be clear: I never had meeting with Russian operatives or   Russian intermediaries about the Trump campaign,” he said. ”And   the idea that I was part of a ’’continuing exchange of information   during the campaign between Trump surrogates and intermediaries   for the Russian government’’ is totally false.” ’ ’   During his Senate confirmation hearing, Sessions, in answering an   unrelated question from Sen. Al Franken, said he did not have any   communications with ”the Russians.” Franken did not ask Sessions   whether he specifically spoke with Russian operatives, but rather   asked about Trump campaign contacts with Russians generally. ’ ’   ”If there is any evidence that anyone affiliated with the Trump   campaign communicated with the Russian government in the course   of this campaign, what will you do?” Franken asked. ’ ’   ”Sen. Franken, I’’m not aware of any of those activities,”   Sessions responded. ”I have been called a surrogate at a time or   two in that campaign and I did not have communications with the   Russians, and I’’m unable to comment on it.” ’ ”   Sessions said during his press conference on Thursday that his   response to Franken’s question was accurate. ” ’   ”That is the question that Sen. Franken asked me at the hearing,   and that’’s what got my attention. As he noted, it was first just   breaking news and it got my attention, and that is the question I   responded to,” he said. ”I did not respond to the two meetings,   one very brief as a speech . .. where no such things were   discussed. My reply to the question of Sen. Franken was honest   and correct as I understood it at the time.” ’ ”   The reports on Wednesday indicated that he met with Russia’s   ambassador to the US, Sergey Kislyak, at least twice last year  —     once at an event timed to the Republican National Convention and   again in September. ” ”   Sessions said during his press conference that he didn’t remember   much of what was discussed during the meeting in his office with   the Russian ambassador, but said they discussed terrorism and   Ukraine. ” ’   ”I don’’t recall, but most of these ambassadors are pretty   gossipy, and this was during the campaign sesson, but I don’’t   recall any specific political discussions,” Sessions said. ’ ”   A number of Democratic politicians called for Sessions while   others, including prominent Republicans, have called for him to   recuse himself from any investigation involving Trump’s ties to   Russia or the country’s influence in the 2016 presidential   election. ” ’ Natasha Bertrand and Allan Smith contributed to this   story. ’ ’Attorney General Jeff Sessions on Thursday said. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’