’  ’ ’   Carter Page, an early   adviser to Donald   Trump’’s presidential campaign, wrote a letter to the Department   of Justice on February 12 alleging Hillary Clinton’’s campaign   committed ”human rights abuses” and ”hate crimes” against him   during the 2016 election. ’ ’   ”The actions by the Clinton regime and their associates may   be among the most extreme examples of human rights violations   observed during any election in US history since Dr. Martin   Luther King, Jr. was similarly targeted for his   views in   the 1960s,” Page wrote in a letter addressed to ”Members of the   Civil Rights Division’s Voting Section” of the Department of   Justice.  ’ ’   That   ’ ’   Page shared the letter with Business Insider in response to   inquiries about his relationship with Attorney General Jeff   Sessions, who reports have suggested steered  in early 2016. ’ ’   Page did not respond to questions about his ties with Sessions,   calling them ”insane.” He instead pointed Business   Insider to his  ’ ”An unverified   dossier about Trump’s ties to Russia, written by former   British spy Christopher Steele at the request of     Republicans, named Page as a liaison between the Trump   campaign and Russian officials. ” ”   US intelligence officials briefed Trump on the dossier’s contents   in early January, and the FBI  to continue his   investigation after Republicans  —   and, later, Democrats  —   stopped   funding Steele’s research. ” ’   Page, who worked athas strongly denied the   accusation that he served as a middleman between Trump’’s   campaign and Russia. He called such claims an ”illegal” form   of ”retribution” for a speech he gave in Moscow at the New   Economic School last July, in which he slammed the US for   its  ’ ’    ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”I am a lifelong practicing Roman Catholic who attended Catholic   schools for 14 years, culminating with my Master of Arts in   National Security Studies from Georgetown University in 1994,”   Carter wrote. ”The clear evidence of intolerance against   Catholics shown by the ’’Hillary for America’’ campaign and the   fact that several of her closest advisors knew of my religion   helps to make part of the reason for her attacks more obvious.” ’ ’   Carter concluded that he still ”remains a believer in the   principles” of his religion ”despite the harsh repression that I   have endured from the Clinton campaign.” ’ ’   Page also alleged that the Clinton campaign discriminated against   him because he is male. ’ ’   ”Although the advancement of women’s rights is essential, Mrs.   Clinton has shown further evidence of discrimination on this   basis as well last year. Although seen throughout her campaign,   it was demonstrated most recently with her ’’The future is female’’   speech last week.” ’ ’   ”For these reasons and in summary, it is essential that a full   investigation of the crimes committed against me by the Clinton   campaign and their associates should be initiated immediately,”   Page wrote, arguing that the lack of a full investigation into   Clinton’’s ”human rights abuses” against him ”could have a   negative impact on the future arc of US national   security.”   ’ ”   The Clinton campaign and the Justice Department didn’t respond to   requests for comment. ” ”   You can read Page’s full letter below: ” ’ ’ ’     ’ ’Carter Page, an early   adviser. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’