’  ’ ’   With fake news lurking around every corner of social media, it   seems more difficult than ever to separate fact from fiction. ’ ’   No one is more aware of that than news literacy professors, who   teach the   skills necessary to evaluate any   piece of journalism. ’ ’   We spoke with three news literacy experts who shared their advice   for being a responsible news consumer. Here are seven quick   things you should do to judge whether you can trust what you   read. ’ ”   This one seems like a   but it’s essential to actually   read an article before letting it form your opinion  —   especially   if the headline makes an outrageous claim. A    found that only 59% of articles shared by Twitter users have   actually been clicked, suggesting that many people share links   based on the headline alone. ” ’   ”Clicking is a good place to start,” Jonathan Anzalone, assistant   director of Stony Brook University’’s Center for News Literacy,   told Business Insider. ’ ’  ’ ’   Some purveyors of fake news choose domain names suspiciously   similar to those of established news companies. ’ ’   Leading the pack is the notorious abcnews. com. co, whose name and   logo mimic the branding of the real ABC News. During the 2016   election, the website attracted readers with bogus stories like   one claiming President Barack Obama banned the Pledge of   Allegiance in schools, and another that ”quoted” a fictional   person who claimed he was paid $3, 500 to protest against Donald   Trump. Both stories were debunked. ’ ’   ”Go beyond the masthead at the top, because it’’s really easy to   copy a brand,” said Peter Adams, senior vice president at the   News Literacy Project. ’ ”   Other culprits that fail the URL test are  washingtonpost. com. co, and .   Make sure the site you’re on isn’t an impostor. ” ”   Always check the author of the news you read. If you don’t   recognize the name, you may want to inspect other articles by the   same person to see if they’re a reliable voice. Bonus points if   the site provides a way to contact the author. ” ”   And if no authors are listed, ask yourself: Why don’t they want   to stand behind their work? ” ’   ”A story without a byline is a huge red flag,” Hunter College   journalism program director Sissel McCarthy told Business   Insider. ’ ’  ’ ’   Any factual claim in a news article should be backed up by a   source. Ideally, an article will cite verifiable sources like   government figures, scientific studies, court documents, and the   like. ’ ”   Be especially vigilant when an   claim doesn’t have   a source to back it up, McCarthy said. ” ’   For example, take the notorious ”Pizzagate” conspiracy, which   claimed members of Hillary Clinton’’s campaign were involved in a   child   ring run out of a Washington, DC pizzeria.   Countless fake news pieces were written about the alleged   scandal, without a shred of evidence. But do some digging, and   you’’ll find that the entire conspiracy originated from  from a     account. ’ ’  ’ ”   If you think you might be reading fake news, try to find an   article about the same subject from different media outlets. If   you can’t find the story on any other site, you may have been   bamboozled. ” ’   ”If the article seems too good to be true, or we really want it   to be true, there should be extra incentive to   or   ” Anzalone said. ’ ”   One of the most notorious fake news stories of the election   season purported that Pope Francis endorsed Trump for president  —     a stunning revelation. But you wouldn’t find the story in The New   York Times, the Associated Press, or USA Today. You’d only see it   on a   site called WTOE 5 (or other fake news sites   that copied the article verbatim). ” ”   That’s because it wasn’t true. If a story of that magnitude is   legitimate, expect multiple news outlets to write about it. ” ”   How’s the quality of the writing in the article you’re reading?   Are there words in all caps, or a plethora of exclamation marks?   Both are rarities in the world of legitimate journalism. ” ”   How about the photos  —   do they appear photoshopped or doctored?   That’s another sign the site you’re on may not be trustworthy,   Anzalone said. ” ’  ’ ’   Does the article’’s website have an ”about us” page, or another   way to learn more about the company? Having one is a good way for   a site to establish credibility and clue readers into its   legitimacy. ’ ’   Some fake news sites disguise themselves as local media outlets   with names like ”Denver Guardian,” ”Boston Tribune,” and ”Dallas   Star News.” ’ ’   ”People weren’’t familiar with the names of local papers outside   their own cities, so they didn’t detect it,” Adams said. ’ ’   ”It’’s mocked up to look like news from institutional   organizations, but there’’s no such paper as the Dallas Star News.   People outside of Dallas will never know.” ’ ’With fake news lurking around every corner of. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’