’’ ’This week,  of the top cars on sale in the US. The venerable consumer publication picked out 10 cars  —   all representing different segments of the auto market  —   for its Top Picks list. ’ ”In order to become a Consumer Reports Top Pick, a vehicle must prove to be outstanding   performers  —   living up to the publication’s stringent road testing, exhibit solid reliability, safety, and consumer satisfaction. ” ’In other words, these cars, ”have’ ’’ ’’ ’Price as tested: $17, 570’ ”Why it’s here: Developed by Mazda, the Toyota Yaris iA sedan has won over Consumer Reports’ staff who describe the car as a refined alternative in a segment filled with insubstantial models. The publication praised the iA for its smooth and gutsy   engine as well its compliant ride and refined automatic transmission. ” ’Price as tested:$23, 145’ ”Why it’s here: By beating out the Honda Civic and Toyota Corolla, the Chevy Cruze climbed one heck of a mountain to take the top spot in this segment. The CR staff praised the Cruze for its quiet cabin, smooth ride, generous feature content, and a powerful yet frugal turbocharged engine. ” ’Price as tested: $27, 323’ ”Why it’s here: The Toyota Prius has long been a stand out for its stellar fuel economy, but the frugal hybrid proves to be more than just a   device. The publication was impressed by the new generation Prius’ improved ride, quieter cabin, better driving dynamics, and a comprehensive suite of standard safety features. ” ’Price as tested:$29, 905’ ’Why it’’s here: ”’ ’Price as tested: $25, 860’ ”Why it’s here: The Kia Optima takes the crown in the segment over industry stalwarts such as the Honda Accord and Toyota Camry. However, according to Consumer Reports, the Optima’s victory is more than deserved.” ’”’ ’Price as tested: $39, 110’ ”Why it’s here: Once again, the Chevy Impala takes home the prize as the best large sedan. The publication was impressed by the Impala’s supportive seats, roomy cabin, refined ride, and responsive handling. ” ’Price as tested: $27, 145’ ”Why it’s here: Subaru has been on a roll in recent years. And the Forester crossover has certainly played a major part in the brand’s success.” ’”’ ’Price as tested:$41, 169’ ”Why it’s here: ” ’’ ’Price as tested: $68, 695’ ”Why it’s here: According to Consumer Reports, the Audi Q7 is the highest scoring SUV it has tested in recent years. And for good reason. the Q7 offers luxury sedan like refinement, comfort, and performance in a   SUV. In addition. the Q7 feature’s Audi’s   infotainment technology.” ’Price as tested: $36, 480’ ”Why it’s here: All new for the 2017 model year, the Honda Ridgeline launched to rave reviews. And it continues here with Consumer Reports who came away impressive by its refinement and versatility.” ’’ ’.’ ’This week, Consumer Reports released its latest. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’