’  ’ ’   The latest executive order temporarily barring travel from a slew   of   nations has a few added caveats that its   controversial initial rendering did not. ’ ’   Senior administration officials highlighted those points in the   hour before President Donald Trump signed the new order on   Monday. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, Homeland Security   Secretary John Kelly, and Attorney General Jeff Sessions also   held brief remarks about the revised travel ban. ’ ’   The major differences are as follows: ’ ’   The new order singles out Sudan, Iran, Somalia, Yemen, Syria, and   Libya. Citizens from those nations will be exposed to the     hold on issuances of visas, just as they were in the original   order that Trump signed in late January. Iraq, however, which   appeared on the first list, has been removed. ’ ’   During the Monday press call, a Homeland Security official said   this was because the Iraqi government agreed to provide the US   with additional information about its citizens. ’ ’’ ’   ”Iraq is no longer one of those countries because we have   received firm commitments from the government of Iraq over the   last several weeks since the first executive order was issued   about increased cooperation with the United States in terms of   information sharing,” the Homeland Security official said. ”We   have received adequate assurance from the government of Iraq that   we will be able to do the kind of vetting a screening of its   nationals that the president of the United States has directed.” ’ ”   The original order’s failure to distinguish a position on   existing visa holders from those countries led to mass chaos at   airports in the immediate aftermath of its implementation. Kelly,   the secretary of homeland security, said soon after its   implementation that visa holders would not be affected by the   travel ban. ” ’   This time, existing visa holders are exempt from the beginning.   The   period applies to citizens of those six nations   seeking new visas. ’ ’   The new travel ban will not give preferential treatment to   religious minorities, such as Syrian Christians, applying as   refugees. ’ ’   That provision had given critics reason to believe that the   initial order was intended to serve as a de facto ”Muslim ban,”   something Trump had touted along the campaign trail, though he   wavered from it at various times. ’ ’   The new order retains a   ban on entry to the US by all   refugees, but that group now also includes Syrian refugees, who   were previously facing an indefinite ban on entry into the US. ’ ’   Instead of being implemented immediately, the new executive order   will take effect March 16, giving the government a full 10 days   to adjust and prepare. ’ ’   ”You should not see any chaos, so to speak, or alleged chaos, at   airports,” a Homeland Security official said in the press call,   later adding, ”There aren’’t going to be folks stopped tonight   from coming into the country pursuant to this executive order.” ’ ’   That position runs contrary to what Trump tweeted once a federal   judge placed a nationwide stay on the original order. ’ ’   ”If the ban were announced with a one week notice, the ’’bad’’   would rush into our country during that week,” . ”A lot of bad ’’dudes’’ out there!” ’ ’   In remarks to the press following Trump’’s signing of the order,   Sessions said the goal of the order was ”to protect the American   people, as well as lawful immigrants.” ’ ’   ”The US has a right to control who enters our country and to keep   out those who would do us harm,” he said, claiming that the FBI   was conducting 300   investigations into   refugees. ’ ’   Senior officials in the press call earlier refused to answer   which countries those refugees came to the US from, making it   unclear whether those refugees were from the nations included in   the ban. ’ ’   ”With this order, President Trump is exercising his rightful   authority to keep our people safe,” Tillerson said during his   remarks. ’ ’   Democrats remained steadfast in opposition to the order. ’ ’   ”Trump’’s obsession with religious discrimination is disgusting,     and outright dangerous,” Democratic National   Committee Chair Tom Perez said in a statement. ”Don’’t be fooled  —     he promised again and again during his campaign that he would   single out and persecute a specific religious group, and that’’s   exactly what he’’s trying to do now.” ’ ’   And Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer said the ”    ban is still a ban.” ’ ’   ”Despite the administration’’s changes, this dangerous executive   order makes us less safe, not more, it is   and   ” the New York Democrat said. ”It must be repealed.” ’ ’   ”Delaying its announcement so the president could bask in the   aftermath of his joint address is all the proof Americans need to   know that this has absolutely nothing to do with national   security,” he continued. ”Despite their best efforts, I fully   expect this executive order to have the same uphill climb in the   courts that the previous version had.” ’ ’The latest executive order temporarily barring. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’