’  ’ ’   Republican members of Congress held a press conference on Tuesday   to denounce their party  and said they would   introduce their own   plan on Wednesday. ’ ’   Members of the House Freedom Caucus and Republican senators   suggested the proposed legislation did not go far enough in   repealing all the taxes and entitlements in the Affordable Care   Act. ’ ’   ”We think you have to get rid of Obamacare completely, so   tomorrow I will introduce the bill that every single Republican   voted on just 15 months ago, the bill that actually repeals   Obamacare,” Rep. Jim Jordan of Ohio said. ’ ’   Jordan said he would introduce a bill similar to the bill that   was passed by Congress in 2015 to repeal the ACA. That bill was   vetoed by former President Obama. ’ ’   Sen. Rand Paul and Sen. Mike Lee, who have also criticized the   AHCA for not going far enough, were also present at the press   conference. Paul said the GOP is united on repeal but ”divided on   a replacement,” so the party should do a ”complete repeal” of the   ACA and work on crafting a replacement later. ’ ’   ”There’’s one thing that has united Republicans in when we won the   House, in 2014 when we won the Senate, and in 2016 when we won   the White House. This doesn’’t divide Republicans, this brings us   together, and that is complete repeal, clean repeal,” Paul said. ’ ’   The AHCA has faced .   Conservative Republicans have said the law does not go far   enough, moderate Republicans are worried about its changes to   Medicaid expansion, conservative groups have called it ”Obamacare   Lite,” and Democrats have said it will rip insurance away from   Americans. ’ ’   Even the AARP criticized a tweak in the law about how much an   insurer can charge older patients compared to younger ones. ’ ’   President Trump defended the law during a meeting around the same   time as the Republican press conference bashing it. ’ ’   ”We’’re going to do something that’s great. And I am proud to   support the replacement plan released by the House of   Representatives,” Trump said. ”It follows the guidelines I laid   out in my congressional address.   …     This will be a plan where you   can choose your doctor and this will be a plan where you can   choose your plan. And you know what the plan is. This is the   plan.” ’ ’   Members of the House GOP leadership came out after meeting with   Trump and said that the executive branch is supporting the AHCA. ’ ’   ”This president made it very clear to us that he wants us to pass   this legislation,” said Rep. Patrick McHenry, the Republican   chief deputy whip. ’ ” Watch Trump’s comments below: ” ’ ’ ’Flag —  Trump just now re: GOP health plan:”You can choose your doctor. ..You can choose your plan. ..It’’s called good healthcare.” via  ’ ’Republican members of Congress held a press. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’