’  ’ ’   The Commandant of the Marine Corps on Tuesday released a powerful   video message aimed at those in the Corps who are defending or   engaged in the sharing of nude photos of their colleagues that   has cast a black mark on the military service. ’ ’   ”Do you really want to be a Marine?” Gen. Robert   Neller asked, in a video posted  ’ ”   The video comes in response to a scandal involving a private   Facebook group called Marines United, where many of its nearly   30, 000 members were found to be passing around nude photos of   female Marines, or photos stolen without consent from their   colleagues’ Instagram accounts. Comments on the photos often   denigrated their service or encouraged sexual assault, as the   explosive investigation  ” ’   The Corps came under fire following the report, especially since   the problem has been known for years, as an article written about   a similar Facebook group  ’ ’   ”We are all teammates. Brothers and sisters. Marines,” Neller   said. ” ’ ’   Neller, who has to be careful to not exercise unlawful command   influence over what is an ongoing investigation, said that ”it   appears” that some Marines have forgotten some of these truths by   acting unprofessionally while online. ’ ’   ”So let me cut to the chase,” he said. ”When I hear allegations   of Marines denigrating their fellow Marines, I don’’t think   such behavior is that of true warriors or warfighters.” ’ ”   The Corps’ top general told victims’ of the abuse to report it to   their units or their chaplains, and further instructed his   enlisted and officer leaders to support victims in coming   forward.  ” ’   ”There is no time off for Marines. We are     and if   that commitment to your excellence interferes with your ’’me time’’   or if you can’’t or are unwilling to commit to contributing 100   percent to our corps’’ warfighting ability by being a good   teammate and improving cohesion and trust then I have to ask you,   ’’do you really want to be a Marine? ’’ Neller said. ’ ’   Watch the video: ’ ’ ’ ’The Commandant of the Marine Corps on Tuesday. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’