’  ’ ’   WikiLeaks on Tuesday dumped thousands of documents that it said   detailed the hacking tools and techniques used by the CIA for   foreign espionage in what appears to be the largest leak of CIA   documents in history. ’ ’   The documents, which experts widely believe to be authentic,   describe how the agency’’s Center for Cyber Intelligence develops   malware, viruses, Trojans, weaponized ”zero day” exploits, and   other tools to hack devices like iPhones, Android phones, and   Samsung smart TVs. ’ ’   Heather Fritz Horniak, a CIA spokesperson, told Business Insider   that the agency ”does not comment on the authenticity or content   of purported intelligence documents.” ’ ’   Per the CIA’’s charter, its hacking arsenal can be deployed only   against foreign targets, not against US citizens. Officials have   emphasized that using the tools against overseas targets   constitutes legal intelligence collection, but WikiLeaks has said   it was given the documents by a former US government hacker or   contractor concerned about ”whether the CIA’’s hacking   capabilities exceed its mandated powers.” ’ ’   WikiLeaks has not published the cyberweapons’’ codes, which would   detail how they are used operationally. But Tuesday’’s leak has   essentially rendered them useless and could set the CIA’’s   cyberintelligence teams back by ”at least a year,” said Alex   McGeorge, a senior security researcher at the cybersecurity firm   Immunity Inc. ’ ’   ”All of these tools and techniques are now burned,” McGeorge   said, noting that the dump included extensive testing plans to   make sure the tools wouldn’’t backfire. ”The CIA won’’t want to use   them again, and operations using those tools that may be running   at this moment will need to have the tools swapped out or   abandoned entirely.” ’ ”   Cybersecurity experts who spoke to Business Insider broadly   agreed that the CIA’s hacking arsenal was not nearly as   sophisticated as the National Security Agency’s, and it’s unclear   how heavily the CIA as a whole depended on the tools developed by   the Center for Cyber Intelligence. ” ’  ’ ’   But ”the impact could be quite severe” if the tools were used   throughout the CIA, McGeorge said, and it would be ”a tall order”   to redesign and redeploy them. ’ ’   ”For the CIA, this is [a] huge loss,” Jake Williams, the founder   of the cybersecurity firm Rendition InfoSec, . ”For incident responders like me, this   is a treasure trove.” ’ ’   ”This, from the CIA perspective, is devastating,” Philip Mudd, a   former CIA counterterrorism official,  on Wednesday. ”And there’’s got to be a manhunt in   that organization today to determine who did this.” ’ ’   Foreign intelligence agencies may now be aware of the CIA’’s tools   and what devices are at risk, which may force the agency to   ”shift its activities,” Jeff Bardin, the chief intelligence   officer at the cybersecurity firm Treadstone 71, told Business   Insider. ’ ’   But the CIA is ”always looking at how to modify and update” its   tools anyway, Bardin said, so it likely wouldn’’t take long for it   to discover new vulnerabilities and avenues of attack known as   ”zero days.” ’ ’   ”Based on what we’’ve seen for years, there will always be zero   days,” Bardin said. ”This just forces them to innovate even   faster than before.” ’ ”   Christopher Mims, a technology columnist at The Wall Street   Journal,  that any damage done to the CIA’s arsenal would   likely be temporary at best. ” ’   ”Zero day exploits = renewable resource,” he said. ’ ’   The leak could have an upside if the CIA were able to reconfigure   its hacking tools quickly. The leaked technology may serve as a   deterrent for some US adversaries who are tempted to ramp up   their own offensive cyberoperations in the future, according to   Larry Johnson, a Secret Service veteran and chief strategy   officer at the cybersecurity firm CyberSponse. ’ ’   ”Technology is altered and improved so often that tools used by   the CIA today were likely not going to be relevant in the near   future anyway,” Johnson told Business Insider. ”But if the US’’s   adversaries didn’’t already know that the CIA was capable of   developing these sophisticated tools, well, they know it now.” ’ ’WikiLeaks on Tuesday dumped thousands of. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’