’  ’ ”   Bitcoin is crashing after the Securities and Exchange Commission      Tyler and Cameron Winklevoss’ proposal for an     fund. The cryptocurrency plunged more than 16% in the moments   after the decision was released and is now down 14% or $192, at   $1, 000 per bitcoin. ” ’   ”As discussed further below, the Commission is disapproving this   proposed rule change because it does not find the proposal to be   consistent with Section 6( b)(5) of the Exchange Act, which   requires, among other things, that the rules of a national   securities exchange be designed to prevent fraudulent and   manipulative acts and practices and to protect investors and the   public interest,” the SEC said in its release. ’ ’   ”Based on the record before it, the commission believes that the   significant markets for bitcoin are unregulated,” it continued.   ”Therefore, as the exchange has not entered into, and would   currently be unable to enter into, the type of     agreement that has been in place with   respect to all previously approved   ETPs  —     agreements that help address concerns about the potential for   fraudulent or manipulative acts and practices in this market  —     the commission does not find the proposed rule change to be   consistent with the Exchange Act.” ’ ’   2017 has been a volatile year for the cryptocurrency. It gained   more than 20% in the first week of the year before crashing 35%   on rumblings that China would begin cracking down on trading. ’ ”   But the cryptocurrency has shrugged off news that China’s biggest   exchanges started charging a flat fee of 0. 2% per transaction, in   addition to . It rallied more than 30% over   the past month in the face of that news, as traders speculated   the SEC would approve at least one of the three bitcoin ETFs. ” ”   Bitcoin rallied 120% in 2016 and was the  in each of the past two years. Even   with Friday’s   bitcoin is still higher by about 10% this   year. ” ’  ’ ’Bitcoin is crashing after the Securities and. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’