’  ’ ’ appointed by   President Barack Obama asked to resign on Friday by Attorney   General Jeff Sessions, one name seemed at least slightly curious:   Preet Bharara, the US attorney for the Southern District of New   York. ’ ”   That’s because President Donald Trump invited him to Trump Tower   in late November during the transition period and asked him to   stay on at his post. ” ’   Following their meeting on November 30, Bharara told reporters he   ”agreed to stay on” after speaking with the   . ’ ’   ”The   asked, presumably because he’’s a New Yorker   and is aware of the great work that our office has done over the   past seven years, asked to meet with me to discuss whether or not   I’’d be prepared to stay on as the United States attorney to do   the work as we have done it, independently, without fear or favor   for the last seven years,” Bharara said. ’ ’   ”I have already spoken to Sen. Sessions, who is, as you know, is   the nominee to be the attorney general,” he continued. ”He also   asked that I stay on, and so I expect that I will be continuing   to work at the southern district.” ’ ’’ ’   One of the   US attorneys, Bharara built a   reputation on vigorously going after corruption cases involving   New York elected officials and aides of those office holders. In   addition, the Wall Street industry was within his scope as US   attorney. ’ ’   Currently, his office is looking into a case related to a top   adviser of New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo, as well as a probe into   allegations that New York City Mayor Bill De Blasio and his   allies engaged in a   .  ’ ”   The Friday move by the Justice Department was to ask for the   resignations of all remaining US attorney’s appointed by Obama.   The move is not unusual. For example, soon after President   Bill Clinton first took office, asked all 93 US attorneys to   resign on the same day. The attorneys are political appointees. ” ’   ”As was the case in prior transitions, many of the United States   Attorneys nominated by the previous administration already have   left the Department of Justice,” Justice Department   spokesperson Sarah Isgur Flores  in an email. ”The   Attorney General has now asked the remaining 46 presidentially   appointed US Attorneys to tender their resignations in order to   ensure a uniform transition.” ’ ’   ”Until the new US Attorneys are confirmed, the dedicated career   prosecutors in our US Attorney’s Offices will continue the great   work of the department in investigating, prosecuting, and   deterring the most violent offenders.” ’ ’   Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer released a statement on   Friday evening expressing his troubles with the requests for   resignations. ’ ’   ”I’m troubled to learn of reports of requests for resignations   from the remaining US attorneys, particularly that of Preet   Bharara, after the president initiated a call to me in   November and assured me he wanted Mr. Bharara to continue to   serve as U. S. Attorney for the Southern District,” Schumer said.   ”While it’s true that presidents from both parties made their own   choices for U. S. Attorney positions across the country, they have   always done so in an orderly fashion that doesn’t put ongoing   investigations at risk. They ask for letters of resignation but   the attorneys are allowed to stay on the job until their   successor is confirmed.” ’ ’   ”By asking for the immediate resignation of every remaining US   attorney before their replacements have been confirmed or even   nominated, the president is interrupting ongoing cases and   investigations and hindering the administration of justice,” The   New York Democrat continued. ’ ’   The call for the resignations came less than a day after Fox   News host Sean Hannity  —   an unabashed Trump supporter with a   massive audience  —   called for a ”purge” of the Justice   Department employees appointed by Obama during his opening   monologue. ’ ”Among the 46 US attorney’s appointed by. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’