’  ’ ’   The US Army has opened an investigation into allegations   that some   soldiers may be involved in the online   sharing of nude photos of their colleagues, Business Insider has   learned. ’ ”   The inquiry by the US Army’s computer crime investigative unit   comes one day after  believed   to be limited to the Marine Corps actually impacts every   branch of service. ” ’   The report revealed a public message board where   purported male service members from all military branches,   including service academies, were allegedly  ’ ’   Special agents from US Army’’s criminal investigation command   ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   According to the Business Insider report, members on a   website called AnonIB often posted photos  —   seemingly stolen   from female service members’ Instagram accounts  —   before asking   others if they had nude pictures of the victim. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   In a thread dedicated to the US Military Academy at West Point,   some users who appeared to be Army cadets shared photos and   graduation years of their female classmates. ’ ’   ”What about the basketball locker room pics, I know someone has   those,” one user said, apparently referring to photos taken   surreptitiously in a women’’s locker room. ”I always wondered   whether those made it out of the academy computer system,”   another user responded. ’ ’   In 2012, an Army sergeant who helped train and mentor cadets was   discovered to have secretly filmed more than a dozen women    at West   Point. The soldier  and was sentenced   in 2014 to 33 months in prison. ’ ’   A Pentagon spokesman condemned such behavior as   ”inconsistent with our values” on Thursday, and Defense Secretary   issued a statement  ”unacceptable and counter to unit   cohesion.” ’ ’   The existence of a site dedicated solely to sharing nude   photographs of female service members is another black mark for   the Pentagon, which has been criticized in the past for failing   to deal with rampant sexual harassment and abuse within the   ranks. ’ ’The US Army has opened an investigation. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’