’  ’ ’   It seems like the world has caught a case of moon fever. ’ ’   On February 27, tech entrepreneur Elon Musk announced that two   unnamed people are paying his rocket company, SpaceX, to send   them on  in 2018. Later The   Washington Post revealed that Amazon. com founder Jeff Bezos and   his own rocket company, Blue Origin, had circulated a  around Capitol Hill. ’ ”   But it’s not just a gaggle of billionaires who’ve set their   sights on Luna. On Tuesday, Congress passed its  in nearly 7 years. The bill calls on   NASA to reach the moon by 2021. ” ’   To bring everything back to Earth a little, we called up : an astronaut who visited the moon twice, once during   Apollo 8 (the first crewed lunar mission) and again on Apollo 13   (which required a storied effort to rescue from disaster). ’ ’   During a   interview, we asked Lovell if there was a   moment on Apollo 8 that he wished he spoke more about  —   and his   response floored us. ’ ’  ’ ’   But first, a little setup. ’ ’   Apollo 8, which launched aboard a  on December 21, 1968, took off during   what Lovell called ”a hilarious time” for the planet. ’ ’   ”There was the Vietnam War going on, it was not a popular war,   especially with the younger people,” Lovell told Business   Insider. ”There were riots, there were two assignations of   prominent people during that period, and so things were looking   kind of bad in this country.” ’ ’   And yet at the end of the year, he said, NASA was working toward   its commitment, made in 1961 by President John F. Kennedy,    before the end of that decade. ’ ’   ”And it happened. So in the last few weeks or days of 1968 we   accomplished something that we set out to do that was favorable   and approved by just about every body in this country,” he said. ’ ’   However, Lovell said that he and his two crewmates,  and  soon realized it was more than ”just” a spaceflight. ’ ’   ”You have to remember we brought back a picture of the Earth as   it is 240, 000 miles away. And the fact is, it gives you a   different perspective of the Earth when you see it as     between the sun and the moon, and you begin to   realize how small and how significant the body is,” he said.   ”When I put my thumb up to the window I could completely hide it,   and then I realized that behind my thumb that I’’m hiding this   Earth, and there are about 6 billion people that are all striving   to live there.” ’ ’   Lovell said this moment was a seed being planted, and one that   would germinate into full blossom once he was back on Earth. ’ ’   ”You have to really kind of . You   realize that people often say, ’’I hope to go to heaven when I   die,’’” he said. ”In reality, if you think about it, you   go to heaven when you’’re born.” ’ ’   By this Lovell meant the remarkable situation we find ourselves   in: floating on a cozy rock that is drifting through the . ’ ’  ’ ’   ”You arrive on a planet that has the proper mass, has the gravity   to  and an atmosphere, which are the very   essentials for life,” he said. ”And you arrive on this planet   that’’s orbiting a star just at the right distance  —   not too far   to be too cold, or too close to be too hot  —   and just at the   right distance to absorb that star’’s energy and then, with that   energy, cause life to evolve here in the first place.” ’ ’    ”In reality, you know, God has really given us a stage,   just looking at where we were around the moon, a stage on which   we perform. And how that play turns out is up to us, I guess,” he   said. ’ ”   Trapped on a cosmic stage together, and at a time when the US is   again   Lovell’s words are ones we could all take to heart. ” ’ Disclosure: Jeff Bezos owns The Washington Post and is an   investor in Business Insider through his personal investment   company Bezos Expeditions. ’ ’It seems like the world has caught a case of. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’