’  ’ ’   Amber Venz Box has always had an entrepreneurial   spirit.  ’ ’   The recent inductee to  told Business Insider that   she  ’ ’   ”This was back when jean skirts were a big thing,” Box said. ”I   figured out how to stress denim using old jeans, bleach, and   razors.” ’ ’   She was in sixth grade. ’ ”   The business didn’t last long. Box had yet to learn one of the   most fundamental lessons of business: the market price of a   firm’s goods must exceed the cost of production.  ” ’   ”Also, my teachers didn’’t take too kindly to me mending my wares   in the back row of their class,” Box added. ’ ’   By the time Box was a student in college she was a seasoned   entrepreneur. She was making $100, 000 a year from a jewelry   business she started as a senior in high school.  ’ ’   ”I was making them in my dorm room and then selling them to local   department stores in Dallas,” Box said.  ’ ’   Box’’s love of fashion and retail only grew as the years went by.   In 2011, when she was    and working as a personal   shopper, she launched a blog to attract potential clients. That   project led to the creation of  a platform   that allows   influencers ”to make cash from their social   media content.” ’ ’   In 2014, in response to the exploding popularity of   Instagram, Box launched . The service makes   it possible for users to buy merchandise that their favorite   Instagram influencers post. When a shopper likes a picture on   Instagram, they receive an email with information about where   they can buy the item they liked. Since 2014, shoppers have   purchased more than $250 million in merchandise via the   service.  ’ ’ ’ ’   On March 6, LIKEtoKNOW. it .  ’ ’   According to a press release, ”By downloading the app, consumers   get a push notification with    product information   when they screenshot enabled influencer images across the mobile   web, including the content they discover inside of closed mobile   social platforms like Instagram and Snapchat.” ’ ’   Box told Business Insider that being a young entrepreneur came   with numerous challenges. One of the most difficult hurdles was   striking the perfect balance between her personal life and her   professional life. The fact that her husband was her business   partner made this an especially daunting task. ’ ’   ”In the early days my husband Baxter and I shared a phone and a   desk,” she said. ”Over time it became difficult to have a healthy   relationship.” ’ ’   Box said the she and her husband overcame this by setting   boundaries around their work day and personal life. ’ ’   ”They include simple things such as designating times when we   allow each other to talk about work, when we start our work day   and end it, and cutting dow the number of night events we   commit to,” Box said.  ’ ’   ’ ’Amber Venz Box has always had an. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’