’  ’ ”   Facebook’s copying of Snapchat made sense in Instagram. Everyone   there already shared photos and videos, so why not let them   expire after 24 hours? ” ’   But now that Facebook has systematically cloned Snapchat in   WhatsApp, Messenger, and  the end result is a confusing mess. ’ ’   Take Messenger, which a few days ago  Now a   camera button sits at the bottom center of the app, while a new   row of thumbnails shows’’ ”days” from your friends at the top of   the screen. ’ ’   Until now, Messenger has been a good, simple tool for texting  —     so good, in fact, that the app has amassed 1 billion users. Now   it looks like this: ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tFB Messenger went from being a great texting app to this confusing garbage  ’ ”   Then there’s WhatsApp, which recently debuted  that  —   you guessed it  —   looks just like   Snapchat and Instagram Stories too. ” ” it’s clear that the company   . And copying Snapchat’s   ephemerality and goofiness doesn’t feel out of place in a     app like Instagram. ” ”   But does that same experience also make sense in Messenger,   WhatsApp, and the main Facebook app? When am I supposed to use   one app’s camera instead of the other? ” ’  ’ ”   When I asked Facebook why it’s putting such a similar camera   experience in all of its apps, a spokesperson told me that   the format is simply a standard way that people want to   communicate now, so it made sense to offer it in all Facebook   apps. ” ’   “The stories format has been widely adopted, and it’s one of the   ways people share updates in a lightweight way throughout their   day,” the Facebook spokesperson said. ”We’ve added this feature   to WhatsApp, Instagram, Messenger and have started to test it on   Facebook too because we’ve learned that people like to use   stories in different contexts and we want to give them the option   to share this way across all of our apps. ” ’ ”   It’s true that   messaging is gaining traction; the   behavior is arguably the key factor behind Snapchat’s popularity,   and . ” ”   There’s also Facebook’s incredible scale to consider. ” ”   The social network has billions of users across its four main   apps, and while many of those users likely overlap, many   certainly do not. Facebook’s core mission is to reach the   largest number of people possible, so it makes sense from a   business perspective to cast a wide net with its . ” ”   But for people like myself who use multiple Facebook apps, the   company’s copy and pasting of features feels forced and   confusing. ” ’ This is an opinion column. The thoughts expressed are those   of the author. ’ ”Facebook’s copying of Snapchat made sense in. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’