’  ’ ’   A presidential candidate, Donald Trump  “I love WikiLeaks!”   And he had good reason to display affection to this website run   by accused rapist Julian Assange. By releasing reams of emails   stolen from the Democratic National Committee and Hillary Clinton   campaign chairman John Podesta, WikiLeaks helped tilt the 2016   election in Trump’s favor. ’ ’   As president, Trump hasn’t come out and said anything laudatory   about WikiLeaks following its massive disclosure of CIA secrets   on Tuesday  —   a treasure trove that some experts already believe   may be more damaging than Edward Snowden’s revelations. But Trump   hasn’t condemned WikiLeaks. ’ ’   The recent entries on his Twitter feed  —   a pure reflection of his   unbridled id  —   contain vicious attacks on, among other things,   Arnold Schwarzenegger, the New York Times, and Barack Obama but   not a word about WikiLeaks. Did the president not notice that the   intelligence community he commands has just suffered a   devastating breach of security? Or did he simply not feel   compelled to comment? ’ ’   Actually there is a third, even more discomfiting, possibility:   Perhaps Trump is staying silent because he stands to benefit from   WikiLeaks’ latest revelations.  ’ ’   On Saturday, recall, Trump was making    that Obama had   ordered the U. S. intelligence community to wiretap him. “How low   has President Obama gone to tapp (sic) my phones during the very   sacred election process. This is  . Bad (or sick)   guy!” ’ ’   The White House could not come up with one iota of evidence to   support this irresponsible allegation, which was denied by FBI   Director James Comey and former Director of National Intelligence   James Clapper. But Trump would not be dissuaded from pursuing   this charge, which serves as a convenient distraction from the   far more serious accusations of possible collusion between the   Trump campaign and the Kremlin while Russia was interfering with   the presidential campaign. ’ ’  ’ ’   Is it just a coincidence that WikiLeaks dumped a massive database   pertaining to CIA hacking and wiretapping just three days after   Trump made wiretapping a major political issue? Perhaps so. But   there is cause for suspicion. ’ ’   In the first place, WikiLeaks has often timed its leaks for   maximum political impact. It released 20, 000 stolen DNC emails   just three days before the Democratic National Convention on July   25, 2016. As expected, WikiLeaks generated headlines about DNC   staffers disparaging Sen. Bernie Sanders, buttressing a Trump   campaign effort to prevent Clinton from consolidating Sanders   supporters. DNC Chairwoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz resigned as a   result, and the Clinton campaign suffered significant public   relations damage. ’ ’   As expected, WikiLeaks generated headlines about DNC staffers   disparaging Sen. Bernie Sanders, buttressing a Trump campaign   effort to prevent Clinton from consolidating Sanders supporters.   DNC Chairwoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz resigned as a result, and   the Clinton campaign suffered significant public relations   damage. ’ ’   In the second place, WikiLeaks, which has often leaked American   but never Russian secrets, has been identified by the U. S.   intelligence community as a front for Russian intelligence. In   January, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence   released a declassified ’ ’  ’ ’   In January, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence   released a declassified  that found “with high   confidence that Russian military intelligence   …     relayed material   to WikiLeaks. ” This was done with a definite purpose: “Putin and   the Russian Government aspired to help   Trump’s   election chances when possible by discrediting Secretary Clinton   and publicly contrasting her unfavorably to him. ” ’ ’   Trump has consistently resisted the intelligence agency’s   conclusions, insisting that some  might   have committed the hacking before grudgingly accepting the   findings but continuing to claim that the Russian hack had no   impact on the election. (Given that 70, 000 votes in three states   were his margin of victory, how does he know what affected the   outcome and what didn’t? And if WikiLeaks was so inconsequential,   why did he  its revelations in almost   every appearance during the last month of the campaign?) ’ ’   The intelligence community’s finding that Putin helped him win   the election spurred Trump to pursue a vendetta against it. For   example, he accused the spooks  —   with no support  —   of being   behind BuzzFeed’s publication of a damning dossier compiled by a   former British intelligence officer claiming that the Kremlin had   compiled compromising materials on him.  ’ ’   Trump outrageously : “Intelligence   agencies should never have allowed this fake news to ‘leak’ into   the public. One last shot at me. Are we living in Nazi   Germany?” His animus against the intelligence agencies has   continued down to his more recent accusations that they allowed   themselves to be used by Obama to wiretap him. The consistent (if   hardly believable) storyline from Trump is that he has no   connections to Russia, and that he is a victim of the nefarious   machinations of the American “deep state. ” ’ ’  ’ ’   It is significant, therefore, that one of the major storylines to   emerge from the latest WikiLeaks release is that the CIA   supposedly has a program to reuse computer codes from foreign   hackers, thus disguising CIA fingerprints on a hacking operation.   Never mind that there is no evidence that the codes used to break   into the DNC were part of this CIA database.   outlets   are nevertheless trumpeting these revelations with  such as this one on   Breitbart: “WikiLeaks: CIA Uses ‘Stolen’ Malware to ‘Attribute’   Cyberattacks to Nations Like Russia. ”   Internet    are also said to be   playing up these claims online. ’ ’   The implication is clear. Trump was a victim of a “false flag”   operation wherein CIA hackers broke into the DNC and blamed the   Russians. ’ ’   This may be nutty, but it’s eminently believable to an audience   conditioned to believe that   was an inside job and that the   Sandy Hook massacre was staged  —   favorite tropes of the radio     host Alex Jones, whose work Trump has . Other WikiLeaks   revelations  —   for instance, that the CIA can use Samsung smart   TVs as listening devices  —   lend further credence to Trump’s   charge that he was secretly wiretapped. ’ ’   Quite apart from its specifics, the WikiLeaks release changes the   subject after a bad few days for Trump highlighted by Attorney   General Jeff Sessions’s decision to recuse himself from any   Kremlingate probe after he was revealed to have lied under oath   when he denied meeting any Russian representatives. ’ ’   Last week it was Trump on the defensive. Now it’s his nemeses in   the U. S. intelligence community who are answering embarrassing   questions about how this leak could have occurred and the   contents of the leaked information. ’ ’   Again, maybe this is entirely coincidental, but WikiLeaks’   history of being used by Russian intelligence to support Trump   should lead to much greater scrutiny not only of who leaked this   information  —   is there a mole in the CIA?  —   but why it was   released now. ’ ’   Even if there is no active collusion between the White House and   the Kremlin, the extent to which their agendas coincide is   striking. Both Putin and Trump want to discredit the U. S.   intelligence community because they see it as an obstacle to   their power. ’ ’A presidential candidate, Donald Trump. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’