’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Andi Peterson never thought twice about taking Percocet. After   all, the powerful painkiller had been prescribed by   a doctor. ’ ’   ”I didn’’t think what I was doing was that wrong. It felt more   like a       thing. It was not going to lead   to this crazy addiction,” she told Business Insider. ’ ’   The first time Peterson tried Percocet she was 16. The last time   she used any substance was when she was 23, she said. She was   finally free from the addiction that had spiraled from   painkillers to heroin and cost her custody of her son, tens of   thousands of dollars, and a year in prison. ’ ”   Peterson is the face of what America’s drug epidemic looks like   today. She is young, white, and   and she lives not   in a city but in a suburb. She has been part of an epidemic   ripping through towns and cities that’s left a trail of broken   families and struggling addicts in recovery  —   and many others not   as lucky as Peterson. ” ”   The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has estimated   that the crisis  and strains state and local   governments and the healthcare system. In December, the CDC also   reported that  in 2015. Those overdoses have   fallen hard on places like Weber County, Utah, where Peterson   grew up. Weber County’s   death rate is more   than five times what it was a decade ago, and far above the   national average. ” ’  ’ ’   Weber County was built on a foundation of   jobs  —   in   railroad and steel  —   which supported the   for   decades. But by the 1990s, those industries had disappeared after   . That sent the county   into a downturn. A similar story played out across the country.   In Ohio and Pennsylvania, it was manufacturing and the steel   industry. In West Virginia, it was coal mining. ’ ’   At the same time that these industries were collapsing,   pharmaceutical reps and medical professionals began pushing   opioid painkillers as an effective and   treatment for   pain, based on  that suggested fewer than 1% of opioid   users become addicted. ’ ”   Medical groups began telling doctors that  as checking patients’ blood pressure.   It was a new paradigm in medicine. Purdue Pharma introduced and   aggressively marketed two powerful new painkillers,  to fill the   void. ” ’   With the explosion in prescriptions, opioids went mainstream.   Clinics known as ”pill mills,” whose purpose was to prescribe   legal opioids, sprang up nationwide. By 2011,  each   year. ’ ’   While many prescriptions went to patients in need of pain relief,   many more went to those suffering less serious ailments. In the   1990s and early 2000s, doctors prescribed opioids ”for   everything,” Dr. Houman Danesh,  at Mount Sinai Hospital, told   Business Insider last year. Many   doctors, who   prescribe the vast majority of opioids, didn’’t fully understand   the risks of the drugs. ’ ’   Most prescriptions went to   white suburbanites who   were far more likely to be prescribed opioids (thanks to ) and far   more likely to have . States with physically demanding     jobs  —   Ohio, West Virginia, Utah, among others  —     received even more prescriptions thanks to the prevalence of     injuries. In Utah, a third of adults  in 2014. ’ ’  ’ ”   Peterson was 16 when a friend of hers was prescribed Lortab,   another powerful painkiller, for back pain. The friend offered a   Lortab pill to her and Peterson gave it a try, despite having   never so much as drunk a beer before. She was a shy kid who   suffered social anxiety, and the pills took that away.   Painkillers don’t just numb physical pain; they numb emotional   distress as well. ” ’   ”I remember feeling really good and comfortable in my own skin   for once. I felt like I could talk to people,” Peterson said. ’ ”   Two years later she had an emergency   while giving birth   to her son, Caden, who was born prematurely. To deal with the   pain, doctors prescribed her Percocet. Peterson’s son’s life was   in danger, and she traveled every day to the hospital to visit   him. And she found that the painkillers eased her stress. ” ”   A few months later, while Peterson was working at Walmart, a new   boyfriend showed up with Percocet. They finished a bottle’s worth   in a matter of days. After they used Percocet for a week,   Peterson’s boyfriend suggested they try heroin. It didn’t scare   her. It just seemed like a cheaper option. ” ’   ”It didn’’t seem like a big deal to me then,” she said. ”I was   naive. I didn’’t know all the consequences that it would lead to.   It just made me feel good. Normal.” ’ ”   Angela Stander, a coordinator at the Utah Department of Health,   had heard a lot of stories like Peterson’s when she worked at a   youth treatment center in Salt Lake City. Again and again, white     teens would come into Stander’s treatment center   hooked on prescription painkillers. Some had tried painkillers   for the first time after being prescribed the drugs; others stole   them from their parents or got them at parties. ” ’   Greater than  who misused painkillers in 2015 obtained   them from a friend or relative who got them from a doctor. Often,   Stander would see a patient leave, only to return months later   addicted to heroin.   people ”don’’t perceive   themselves as addicts. Then they start to use more and more and   they overdose,” Stander told Business Insider. ’ ”   The    pipeline is largely responsible for the   explosion in heroin use in America’s suburbs. ” ’   Dr. Ted Cicero, a professor of psychiatry at Washington   University in St. Louis, conducted an extensive study on opioid   users’’ habits in 2015. He found they overwhelmingly follow a   ”natural progression” from prescription pills to heroin as the   price for pills becomes prohibitive. ’ ’   When people like Peterson are ready to make the jump, heroin is   not only more readily available and cheaper but also more potent   than ever. ’ ’  ’ ’   As journalist Sam Quinones wrote in ”,” as the pill   crisis deepened, heroin dealers (primarily from Xalisco County,   Mexico) moved in to supply a new population of users in places   not traditionally known for criminal activity or drug dealing. ’ ”   Suburbs hit hard by the crisis, like Weber County, were full of   painkiller users primed for the switch to heroin. The Xalisco   dealers, and others like them, catered their businesses to these   users. The dealers offered   delivery to popular   suburban locations, like McDonald’s or a CVS parking lot. ” ”   Well paid by   the dealers didn’t rip off addicts with   weak heroin or steal from them. Instead, they treated them as   important customers, offering discounts on holidays and freebies   when they were short on cash. ” ’   ”Guys from Xalisco had figured out that what white people  —     especially   white kids  —   want most is service,   convenience,” Quinones wrote. ’ ’   Further, the Xalisco dealers, and the   dealers   that came after, avoided selling in black neighborhoods and to     because so many Mexicans told tales of gang   violence in places like Los Angeles, according to Quinones. ’ ’   Erin Marie Daly, a journalist who interviewed dozens of users for    found   that young users were most often introduced to heroin by their   pill dealers, who suggested heroin as a cheaper, more powerful   substitute. ’ ’   ”A lot of them were using with friends,” Daly told Business   Insider last year. ”The minute one friend said, ’’Hey, my dealer   hooked me up with this awesome, super cheap stuff  —   try it,’’ the   kids would try it. ’ ’   ”Once they tried heroin, there was no going back. Even if they   wanted to stop, they were physically unable.” ’ ’  ’ ”   After six months, Peterson’s   a highway patrolman, knew   something was up. Peterson was fidgety and sweating at the time   from smoking heroin. He sat her down and without much prodding   she fessed up. She told her parents that she was ashamed and   wanted to get clean. ” ’   Her dad, Cory, was in shock but tried to be positive. He took her   to the family doctor, who prescribed drugs to ease her withdrawal   and told them to get Peterson into a program. ’ ’   ”Everything sounded really good in the doctor’’s office. We walked   outside of the office, and I had a lot of hope that we had caught   it just in time,” Cory told Business Insider. ’ ”   Then reality hit. Peterson went through detox and a     outpatient treatment program at the Alcohol and Chemical   Treatment Center, the biggest in Weber County. It went well at   first, she thought. But on the last day her tax refund arrived.   She cashed the check and drove to her boyfriend’s house. The urge   was too strong. Within a week she learned how to inject heroin. ” ’   Opioids fundamentally  and radically change thought patterns.   Imagine a chorus shouting in your head ”I need to use heroin”   endlessly until the moment you gave in. That’’s what addiction   feels like to the heaviest heroin and painkiller users, many say. ’ ’   Once a person becomes hooked, it becomes difficult and expensive   to get them back to anything like a stable life. Even for those   like Peterson, with supportive parents and good health insurance,   it can take years to get clean, if ever. Justin Hatch, the   program director at ACT, told Business Insider that patients   frequently take up to seven stays in treatment to reach ”full   recovery.” Peterson would go to treatment more than five times   over the next two years. ’ ’   Getting high ”required no thought,” Peterson said. ”It was like   breathing.” ’ ’   The destruction that opioids have wrought on suburbia is directly   linked to how difficult the addiction is to cure on an individual   level. There is no standardized treatment for     disorder, and many treatment centers are built around treating   alcoholism, essentially a different brain disorder. ’ ’     treatment, which uses prescription medication   to reduce cravings and is considered to be the  has gained advocates in statehouses and   Capitol Hill, but is expensive and . ’ ’     counties have started to take matters into their own   hands. Weber Human Services, the   service authority   in Weber and Morgan counties, has worked to make MAT more   available and accessible, both through public funds and outreach   to doctors and treatment centers. But its use is still more the   exception than the rule. ’ ”   It’s why, even with attention growing for years, and hundreds of   millions in public funds allocated to combat the problem, through   major acts of Congress  —   the  and  in 2016  —   and state and local actions,   the end to the crisis is not in sight. ” ’   Robert Done has been a police officer in Pleasant View, a suburb   in the shadow of the Wasatch Mountains, for more than a decade.   As a night patrolman for years, Done saw the epidemic at its   worst. He picked up teenagers ”high as kites” in their cars,   broke up parties where pills or heroin was on the tables, and got   called in when kids overdosed, a common occurrence a few years   back. ’ ’   Weber County, where the town is located, has the       death rate in Utah at 30. 8 deaths per 100, 000 in   2015. ’ ’   One night, Done had to respond to four overdoses, one after   another. They all died. ”I almost told my chief that if I got one   more overdose, I was done. It’’s not a pretty sight,” Done told   Business Insider. ’ ”   There’s no shortage of   suburban counties that have   been ripped apart by overdose deaths. Norfolk County,   Massachusetts; Scioto County, Ohio; Armstrong County,   Pennsylvania. The list of places with spiking overdoses goes on. ” ’  ’ ’   There  access to naloxone, a     drug that reverses overdoses. Advocacy organizations   and nonprofits like the Clinton Foundation have given out tons of   naloxone kits to those at risk, and the CARA Act includes   measures to make it more available to the public, police, and   first responders. ’ ’   In Utah, a group called Utah Naloxone . And the Utah state government announced in   December that pharmacists . ’ ”   There was no naloxone on one of the most harrowing days of   Peterson’s life. Not long after leaving her first stint in   treatment, Peterson and her boyfriend rented out a townhouse   using money that he received from a $100, 000     policy after his father died. ” ’   After word got around, the townhouse became the spot for   young addicts in Pleasant View. Peterson and her boyfriend burned   through the rest of the money while dealers turned friends sold   dope in the living room and kids shot up in the rooms upstairs.   The house was littered with baggies, drugs, needles, and spoons. ’ ”   One night, a kid Peterson barely knew overdosed in the bedroom.   Everyone in the house scattered, leaving Peterson alone with him,   a needle stuck in the kid’s arm. ” ”   Done pulled Peterson aside at the scene and told her that she was   going to be next if she continued using. He’d met her dozens of   times before, on patrol, and had taken to trying to help her   escape her addiction. He told her that if she entered treatment   they wouldn’t charge her for anything, so she did. ” ”   But that wasn’t enough of a   call. She failed out of   treatment, again. It was another two years of treatment and   relapse, arrests and jail time, drug court and parole, and   finally a year in the Utah State Prison before she broke free.   She has been clean since, she said, and she has begun the long   process of putting her life back together. ” ’   Andi Peterson is one of the lucky ones. Far more of the victims   of the crisis end up stuck in the relapse cycle or, like the   young boy in the townhouse, overdosed and alone. ’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’