’  ’ ’   While much of America’s political class is transfixed by the   debate about connections between Russia and the White House, a   quieter but perhaps more consequential drama is playing out at   Foggy Bottom. It concerns the startling diminution of Secretary   of State Rex Tillerson and perhaps the entire department that he   heads. Normally the most important position in the cabinet, the   secretary of state has had little impact on the Trump   administration so far. And, if anything, his role appears   headed for further decline. ’ ’   The secretary of state draws his or her power less from the U. S.   Constitution or the laws than from five sources: backing from the   president, advice and support from his or her department’s career   officials, admiration from and alliances with other leaders in   the government, praise from the press and public, and positive   evaluations of his or her competence and power by foreign   diplomats. ’ ’   These individuals and groups do not act independently but rather   depend on each other and interact to build up or tear down the   secretary’s power. Perceptions and reality blend as to be seen as   powerful or weak, and that can readily become   in   the Washington echo chamber. ’ ’   These dynamics have worked against Tillerson until now. And   though he still has some time to reverse them, he does not have   much. ’ ’  ’ ’   Even more than most cabinet members who have extensive   responsibilities detailed by law, the power of the secretary of   state depends on the incumbent’s relationship with the president.   He or she needs to be able to speak for the president, and   audiences both domestic and foreign need to know that this is the   case. This is demonstrated not only by presidential statements of   praise but also by the secretary’s presence at meetings with   foreign leaders and in important policymaking deliberations. ’ ’   Tillerson’s position here is very weak. President Donald Trump   has shown his lack of faith in him by vetoing his choice for the   No. 2 position in his department, Elliott Abrams. Tillerson has   also been absent for most of Trump’s meetings with visiting   leaders. ’ ’   He likewise does not seem to be playing a central role in the few     decisions that the Trump administration has made:   He does not appear to have been consulted before     Security Advisor Michael Flynn took the White House podium to   announce that Iran was now “on notice” not to conduct further   provocative missile tests; there is no evidence that his advice   was sought when Trump huddled with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo   Abe in January after a North Korean missile launch; nor does he   appear to have been involved in Trump’s equivocation on whether   he still supported a   solution in the Middle East. Most   dramatically, he has not been able to stave off Trump’s proposal   for deep cuts in the budget for diplomacy and foreign aid. ’ ’   Tillerson might compensate for this lack of support by strong   backing from his department. This would not only arm him with   information and arguments to make his voice heard but would show   other audiences that he has earned the respect of diplomatic   professionals. Tillerson unfortunately is weak here as well. ’ ’   News stories indicate that he remains distant from his officials,   many of whom have been removed or have resigned, and convey   dissatisfaction and negative evaluations of his performance by   foreign service officers. A minor indicator was his ignorance of   the protocol to be followed when he met his Russian counterpart   and neglected to make the standard introductory remarks. This   shows that Tillerson was disconnected from his building’s   expertise, that he ignored what he was told, or that his   subordinates went out of their way to embarrass him. ’ ’  ’ ’   The news stories are based on leaks, of course, but the very fact   that many people in the State Department are willing to express   their dismay is a troubling sign. ’ ’   More importantly, these press stories tell everyone in   Washington, including foreign embassies, that Tillerson is   ineffective. Even if these descriptions are incorrect, by   influencing widespread perceptions they undermine him. The fact   that Tillerson has not been meeting with reporters, and even   temporarily halted the daily departmental press briefings, has   contributed to the sense of his being peripheral. ’ ’   Some people in this position can compensate by drawing on   independent support from political elites and the public at   large. This was true for Colin Powell, who served as secretary of   state under George W. Bush. Although from the start he was not   the president’s   man, he was able to retain a seat at   the table because of his independent standing as a major national   figure based on his previous   service as national   security advisor and chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, which   Tillerson lacks. ’ ’   When he was secretary of state during the John F. Kennedy and   Lyndon Johnson administrations, Dean Rusk was not in the   president’s inner circle  —   especially under Kennedy  —   nor did he   have any independent base of support. But in addition to working   well with those in his building, he was valued by his peers,   especially Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara and National   Security Advisor McGeorge Bundy, for his steadiness and good   judgment. As a result, he was never excluded from the flow of   information or crucial meetings. Although it is too early to tell   how Tillerson is regarded by Secretary of Defense James Mattis   and National Security Advisor H. R. McMaster, there is no evidence   that they have come to rely heavily on him. ’ ’  ’ ’   Another possible source of support for the secretary is the   foreign diplomatic corps with which he interacts. Several of his   predecessors like Powell or Rusk already had favorable   reputations abroad when they took office, and John Kerry, Barack   Obama’s   secretary of state, was central to foreign   policy less because of his close relations with Obama than   because of his deep involvement with multiple international   negotiations  —   including the Iran nuclear deal and his efforts to   secure a   in Syria and an   peace   deal  —   and ties to many international diplomats.  ’ ’ Perhaps he can gain strength   from impressing and influencing them, but this is likely to be   difficult unless he can start major negotiations  —   and bring them   to a successful conclusion. ’ ’   These sources of power are not independent of each other. The   more the secretary is seen as enjoying the president’s   confidence, the more he or she gains respect from others in the   cabinet and professional diplomats, both American and foreign.   Conversely, the president is less likely to keep his or her   secretary close if the latter is viewed as weak or ineffective by   other audiences. The role of the press is important here less as   a describer of the scene than as a means of keeping all the other   players informed and rendering independent judgments of its own.   Washington is a small community, and reputations develop quickly   and matter a great deal. ’ ’  ’ ’   With these weaknesses reinforcing each other, Tillerson is on a   downward spiral. Reversing it will require open support from the   president, most obviously by his scrapping the diplomatic and   foreign aid budget cuts, ratifying Tillerson’s choice of top   subordinates, including him in   meetings, and   endorsing some of his policies, such as not withdrawing the   United States from the Paris climate change agreement. In   parallel, Tillerson needs to assert the role of the State   Department in issues of trade and migration that are central to   Trump’s concerns. Meeting with the press and displaying command   of the issues would also be important steps. ’ ’   Without measures like these, Tillerson and his department are   likely to recede even further into the background. This would not   be unprecedented: William Rogers played only a small role in   Richard Nixon’s foreign policy. But since Trump is not Nixon, and   McMaster is not likely to become Henry Kissinger, under the   current administration the result would likely be the diminution   not only of the secretary of state but of diplomacy as well. ’ ’While much of America’s political class. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’