’  ’ ”   A new and previously unseen  containing footage of Michael Brown before he   was shot appears to contradict statements made by Ferguson’s   police department about the circumstances surrounding his death. ” ’   The tape, obtained by documentary filmmaker Jason Pollock and   included in his film, ”Strange Fruit,” seems to show Michael   Brown entering a convenience store around 1 a. m. on the day he   died and handing what looks like a small bag of marijuana   to employees behind the store’’s counter. ’ ’   The video then appears to show the employees passing the bag to   one another and smelling its contents. Afterwards, the footage   shows employees handing Brown cigarillos. Brown walks away   with the cigarillos before the video shows him coming back   and giving them to the employees for what Pollock says is   safekeeping. ’ ’   The clip shows Brown returning to the store close to noon the   following morning and waiting at the counter with his hands   clasped behind his back. Pollock, who narrates the video, says at   this point, ”[Brown] left his items at the store and he went back   the next day to pick them up. Mike did not rob the store.” ’ ”   The video, the veracity of which has not yet been confirmed,   raises questions about the police department’s claim that Brown   committed a   robbery of the convenience   store. When the case initially gained national attention,   the police released security footage from a store nearby that   showed Brown pushing an employee and taking the cigarillos   shortly before he was shot by officer Darren Wilson. ” ’’ ’   However, the new footage obtained by Pollock seems to imply that   Brown was engaging in an exchange of goods, not a robbery. ’ ’   ”There was some type of exchange, for one thing, for another,”   Lesley McSpadden, Brown’’s mother, says in the documentary, which   . ’ ’   She adds: ”What [the police department] didn’’t show is . .. that   there was an understanding” between the parties involved in the   alleged altercation. ’ ’   This account was disputed by Jay Kanzler, an attorney who   represents the convenience store and its employees. ”There was no   transaction,” Kanzler . ”There was no understanding. No   agreement. Those folks didn’t sell him cigarillos for pot. The   reason he gave it back is he was walking out the door with unpaid   merchandise and they wanted it back.” ’ ”   Pollock, whose documentary tells Michael Brown’s story from his   family’s perspective, pushed back against the police department’s   and Kanzler’s claims. ” ’   ”They destroyed Michael’s character with the tape, and they   didn’t show us what actually happened,” Pollock told the   Times. ”So this shows their intention to make him look bad.   And shows suppression of evidence.”  ’ ’A new and previously unseen security tape. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’