’  ’ ’   Bill Ackman has sold out of one of his most controversial   investments, Valeant Pharmaceuticals, after three years of   involvement with the company. ’ ”   During that time, Valeant’s stock fell from a high of about $257   to where it sits now, just under $11. ” ’   One might call it a teachable moment, in which hard, honest     is required. ’ ”   For his part, Ackman  that he should’ve sold the stock 18   months ago, when the revelation of a secret pharmacy within   Valeant combined with government scrutiny over its     strategy began to drag the stock down. ” ’   Ackman also said he underestimated the damage that media coverage   and the falling stock price would have on the company, Wapner   reported. ’ ’   As takeaways go, this is all wrong. ’ ”   To understand why this is so wrong, you have to understand how   Ackman got into Valeant in the first place. It wasn’t through a   purchase of the stock  —   at least not at first. It was by doing a   deal that The New York Times’ Andrew Ross Sorkin called  ” ”   It was his collaboration with former Valeant CEO Michael Pearson,   the architect of Valeant’s price hike and     business model, that marked the point where Ackman should’ve   thought twice about the company. ” ”   In 2014, the two men appeared to devise a plan in which Valeant   and Pershing would quietly buy up shares of another   pharmaceutical firm, Allergan, using mostly Pershing’s money.   Once Pershing Square amassed a stake of just under 10% Ackman   and Valeant announced their intention to acquire Allergan. ” ”   If that sounds like insider trading to you, you’re not alone. A   California court is pondering that very thing based on SEC Rule   14  . It basically says that if company A is planning to take   over company B, anyone with knowledge of that bid can’t trade in   company B if the deal is in motion but still a secret. ” ”   Of course during his  Ackman said that this was not a   takeover at all  —   at least that wasn’t his intention. It was a   merger. Very different. ” ’  ’ ’   Back to the 2014 deal. Allergan did not want to be sold to   Valeant, for various reasons, and argued that Valeant was not a   profitable company but a rollup that required acquisitions to   survive. That’’s when what Ackman called a ”merger” quickly became   a ”hostile takeover” and when a white knight saved Allergan by   outbidding Valeant. ’ ’   Pershing Square made $2. 6 billion anyway  —   a perfect Wall Street    ’ ”   This angered a number of shareholders who didn’t know about the   deal from the beginning. They make up the class of investors   suing Pershing and Valeant over insider trading on the deal. If   they win, Pershing stands to lose the $2. 6 billion it made. ” ”   All this happened before Ackman owned a single share of Valeant   stock. He didn’t disclose a stake in the drugmaker until March   2015. ” ”   It wasn’t until October of that year that Valeant’s real troubles   began. It was exposed that the company was using a secret   internal pharmacy called Philidor that has been accused of   committing insurance fraud. That’s when Valeant’s whole appeal to   Wall Street began to unravel. ” ”   Ackman says this is the point at which he should’ve sold out; but   he should actually have been the last person to be surprised by   this. He knew what kind of company Pearson was trying to build,   and how he was building it. More than that, Ackman had been   warned by others to stay away. ” ’   Legendary   Jim Chanos warned Ackman that Valeant was   a problem. He even sent Ackman his research before Ackman   announced his collaboration with the company. Ackman responded to   that by saying on CNBC that Chanos had covered his short position   in the company. Chanos had not. ’ ”   Legendary Berkshire Hathaway investor Charlie Munger had spoken   out about Valeant’s acquisition rollup strategy, and its     practices repeatedly, at one point calling it    We know Ackman heard this, because he  after that  —   in April of 2015, long before the   specialty pharmacy was brought to light  —   to complain about the   comments. ” ”   In other words, Valeant’s shadiness was apparent to plenty of   people: Munger, Chanos, and even the CEO who fought off an   arguably sketchy plan to acquire his company. Ackman, manager of   billions of other people’s dollars, should’ve recognized that. ” ’   Ackman told Wapner Valeant was ”a case where the company   destroyed its reputation and it caused a loss of talent and   focus.” ’ ”   It’s not the only one. ” ’Bill Ackman has sold out of one of his most. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’