’  ’ ”   The White House on Tuesday evening released some information   about President Donald Trump’s 2005 tax returns after MSNBC host   Rachel Maddow’s show teased that it had obtained part of the   forms. ” ’   A    from Maddow’’s account on Tuesday read, ”BREAKING: We’’ve got Trump   tax returns.” Daily Beast writer David Cay Johnston touted a   pending story . ’ ”   The documents are described as the first two pages of Trump’s   2005 federal income tax return, . ” ’   The forms noted that Trump and his wife Melania paid the   equivalent of less than 4% of their 2005 income in regular   federal income taxes  —   amounting to about $5. 3 million. The   documents indicate the Trumps paid another $31 million  —     classified under the alternative minimum tax (AMT) that Trump has   suggested should be eliminated. ’ ”   In response to Maddow’s earlier teasing of the reporting, a White   House official told Business Insider that Trump paid $38 million   in taxes on $150 million in income in 2005, while blasting the   MSNBC report. ” ’’ ’   ”You know you are desperate for ratings when you are willing to   violate the law to push a story about two pages of tax returns   from over a decade ago,” the official said. ’ ”   To date, a complete accounting of Trump’s history has not been   publicly released, breaking from decades of tradition in   presidential politics. During the 2016 presidential campaign,   Trump resisted calls to share his returns, citing an ongoing   audit which he claimed prevented him from making the documents   public. ” ”   Experts have refuted that claim, but Trump persisted, saying he   would release the returns after the audit was completed,   ostensibly after the election. Trump’s campaign       counselor Kellyanne Conway said after   the inauguration in January that Trump . ” ’   Trump largely scoffed at the necessity of revealing his tax   documents, often claiming that voters would learn ”very little”   from them. Critics like 2012 Republican presidential nominee Mitt   Romney and 2016 Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton have suggested   there may be a ”bombshell” hidden in Trump’’s taxes. ’ ’   Late in the election cycle, The New York Times . ’ ’The White House on Tuesday evening released. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’