’’ ’Chris Sacca, one of Twitter’’s first investors, was the company that he felt it ”was one of my children and I needed to defend it at all costs. ”’ ’Now Sacca has completely given up on the stock and sold all of his shares, he revealed in .’ ’”I haven’’t owned TWTR for almost a couple years,” Sacca, the billionaire venture capitalist who has also made investments in Uber and Instagram, tweeted to his 1. 8 million followers.’ ’”When they failed to get Ev involved again, I lost hope. Love the service, hate the stock,” he said, referring to Twitter   Evan Williams.’ ’In  Sacca clarified that his fund sold ”most” of its shares after Jack Dorsey, another Twitter cofounder, was brought back on as Twitter’’s CEO in October 2015, and that he sold his personal shares in the fall of 2016. ’ ”Sacca’s change of heart reflects the broader market’s disillusionment with Twitter, which has seen its stock plunge roughly 80% from its peak shortly after its IPO in 2013. But the fact that such an ardent support of the company has thrown in the towel shows just how hard Twitter will have to work to rejuvenate its struggling business.” ’In an email to Business Insider on Tuesday, Sacca said the fact that he sold his stake in Twitter was not news and that he had publicly discussed it multiple times. He said he had nothing further to add about his views on the stock.’ ’As recently as October, Sacca he didn’’t own as many Twitter shares ”as I used to because I’’m not an idiot, but I [still] own more than I should because I’’m an idiot. ”’ ”But if Sacca is feeling less optimistic about Twitter these days, it’s for good reason.” ’’ ’’ ’Here are a few more of Sacca’’s tweets about Twitter on Tuesday, including how he thinks the company needs to open its platform back up to developers and tackle its ”bot epidemic:”’ ” ’t’t’tI think Twitter’s best chance right now would be to open it all up to developers again and give them a sincere chance to make it great.  ” ’ ’t’t’tTackling the bot epidemic would hurt Twitter short term because it would depress ”user” numbers. But it has to get fixed. It’’s embarrassing.  ’ ”Chris Sacca, one of Twitter’s. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’