’  ’ ’   The law firm representing the   maker Jawbone in   its legal battles against its rival Fitbit has abruptly withdrawn   from three of the pending cases, according to court filings   released last week and this week. ’ ’   The firm, Susman Godfrey L. L. P. did not give a reason for   stepping aside in the filings, saying only that ”professional   considerations” caused the move. ’ ’   Four of the lawyers listed in the filing did not respond to voice   messages or emails asking for comment. One lawyer from Susman   Godfrey listed in the filing, Genevieve Vose Wallace, declined to   comment. A representative for Jawbone declined to comment. ’ ’   Susman Godfrey had not withdrawn from two other cases in which it   has been representing Jawbone against Fitbit as of Tuesday   morning. It is unclear whether Susman Godfrey will withdraw from   those cases, one of which is a patent lawsuit Jawbone filed   against Fitbit. ’ ’   The filings say Susman Godfrey will continue representation for   60 days to allow Jawbone to find new representation. ’ ’’ ’   Jawbone and Fitbit have been suing each other over patent and     disputes for years. Fitbit dropped one of its cases   against Jawbone in December, meaning it no longer sought to ban   imports of Jawbone devices to the US. Jawbone, however, had   stopped selling products by that time anyway. ’ ’   Jawbone, which makes wearable   trackers, is   seeking to right its business amid a tumultuous phase. In   September, Jawbone cut ties with its       agency NexRep after the agency claimed in an internal  that Jawbone was unable to   pay for services. At the time, Jawbone told Business Insider it   was reviewing its bills to NexRep and ”restructuring” its   customer service. Since then, it’’s been  that Jawbone has been unable to fulfill     requests, and its  is full of   complaints from customers. ’ ’   Jawbone also stopped producing and selling its fitness trackers   while awaiting another round of funding to develop a     health device, sources told Business Insider last   year.  that Jawbone planned to abandon its consumer     business altogether. The company has abandoned   its Bluetooth speaker business. ’ ’   The company has also lost two key executives in the past year,    and  last summer, The Verge   reported. ’ ’   Sources told Business Insider last year that Jawbone had been   trying to raise more funding for months. In January, someone   close to the company  that the company was close to   securing a new round of funding, but no announcement has been   made since then. Jawbone also turned down an acquisition offer by   Fitbit in December because the offer was well below its most   recent valuation, of $1. 5 billion, according to the Financial   Times report. ’ ” Do you know anything about what’s happening at Jawbone? Email   skovach@businessinsider. com. ” ’The law firm representing the  . ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’