’  ’ ”   (Reuters)   Chuck Berry, who   his way into the   pantheon of rock’n’roll as one of its most influential guitarists   and the creator of raucous anthems that defined its early sound   and heartbeat, died on Saturday at his Missouri home. He was 90. ” ”   Police in St. Charles County, outside St. Louis, said emergency   responders called to Berry’s home found the performer unconscious   and administered   assistance to no avail. He was   pronounced dead at 1:26 p. m. local time, police said. ” ”   Although Elvis Presley was called the king of rock’n’roll, that   crown would have fit just as well on the carefully sculpted   pompadour of Charles Edward Anderson Berry. He was present in   rock’s infancy in the 1950s and emerged as its first star   guitarist and lyricist. ” ’     hits such as ”Johnny B. Goode,” ”Roll Over   Beethoven,” ”Sweet Little Sixteen,” ”Maybellene” and ”Memphis”   melded elements of blues, rockabilly and jazz into some of   America’’s most timeless pop songs of the 20th century. ’ ’   He was a monumental influence on just about any kid who picked up   a guitar with rock star aspirations   Keith Richards, Paul   McCartney, John Lennon and Bruce Springsteen among them. ’ ’’ ’   Bob Dylan called Berry ”the Shakespeare of rock’’n’’roll,” and he   was one of the first popular acts to write as well as perform his   own songs. They focused on youth, romance, cars and good times,   with lyrics that were complex, humorous and sometimes a little   raunchy. ’ ”   Both the Beatles and the Rolling Stones, as well as the Beach   Boys and scores of others acts   even Elvis   covered Berry’s   songs. ” ’   ”If you tried to give rock’’n’’roll another name,” Lennon once   said, ”you might call it ’’Chuck Berry’’.” ’ ’   When Richards inducted Berry into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame   in 1986, he said: ”It’’s very difficult for me to talk about Chuck   Berry because I’’ve lifted every lick he ever played. This is the   gentleman who started it all.” ’ ’   Berry, who marked his 90th birthday in 2016 by announcing he   would release his first album in 38 years, listed   Walker,   Carl Hogan of Louis Jordan’’s band and Charlie Christian from   Benny Goodman’’s band as his guitar influences, but his lyrical   style was all his own. Punchy wordplay and   subject   matter earned him the nickname ”the eternal teenager” early in   his career. ’ ’   Berry came along at a time when much of the United States   remained racially segregated, but it was hard for young audiences   of any color to resist a performer who delivered such a powerful   beat with so much energy and showmanship. ’ ’   Berry said he performed his signature       ”duck walk” across more than 4, 000 concert stages. ’ ’   (Reporting by Mary Milliken; Additional reporting and writing by   Steve Gorman in Los Angeles; Editing by James Dalgleish) ’ ’(Reuters)   Chuck Berry, who   his. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’