’  ’ ’   UCLA guard Lonzo Ball is considered one of the top NBA prospects   in college basketball and a likely   draft pick come   June. ’ ’   The    Ball possesses a unique blend of springy   athleticism, height (  ) court vision, and     shooting that make him an appealing guard at the next level. ’ ”   However, there’s one aspect of his game that gives the NBA world   pause about his success in the big leagues: his shooting   mechanics. ” ”   Part of Ball’s uniqueness is undoubtedly his quirky release  —   a   shooting form that begins from his left hip and comes up to a   release from the left side of his head, despite coming out of his   right hand. Some feel that this strange form could be prohibitive   to Ball’s scoring prowess in the NBA. ” ’ ’ ”   However, there’s another potentially troubling aspect to his   shot, one that he’ll need to iron out to be a successful scorer   in the NBA,   —   the hitch in his   jumper. Occasionally, when Ball rises for a shot, he’ll pause at   the top of his jump, releasing the ball almost on his way down.   O’Connor provides evidence  —   watch the brief pause: ” ’ ’ ”   According to O’Connor, one NBA executive posited an interesting   theory about the hitch in Ball’s jumper: it may be related to the   type of basketball he uses. From O’Connor: ” ”   And according to O’Connor, Ball’s shooting splits vary depending   on the type of ball he’s using. ” ”   While O’Connor reiterates it’s just a theory and based on a small   sample size of shots (Ball, after all, is not even finished with   his freshman season) former UCLA guard and current Raptors guard   Norman Powell told The Ringer that he felt a difference in brands   of basketball. Powell shot 42. 6% from three at home with the   Wilson ball and 20. 7% with the Adidas ball at away or neutral   sites. ” ’   ” ’ ’  ’ ”   This theory ultimately isn’t the biggest obstacle in Ball’s way.   As O’Connor details, unlike other great NBA point guards, Ball   isn’t able to use his dribble to create a shot from anywhere. He   has a simplistic, predictable arsenal of moves, with a shot that   stands to get rejected in the NBA. ” ”   While it’s likely too late to drastically change his mechanics,   better   combinations of moves, and adjustment to   basketballs might be what he’ll have to add to his game to   succeed in the NBA. ” ’  ’ ’UCLA guard Lonzo Ball is considered one of the. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’