’  ’ ”   President Donald Trump’s approval rating is at a new low since he   assumed office in January, hitting 37% . ” ’   His disapproval rating, at 58% is at a high point since he   became president. ’ ’   These latest approval ratings come on the heels of a tumultuous   week for the Trump administration and congressional Republican   leadership, who are working to drum up support for their   Affordable Care Act replacement bill. ’ ’   The bill has prompted backlash from the American public, as well   as resistance from those within the Republican party who believe   it does not go far enough to repeal Obamacare. ’ ’   The proposal, as it currently stands, would  senior citizens, rural Americans, and     Americans. It would also leave an additional 24   million people uninsured by 2026,  from the nonpartisan Congressional   Budget Office ’ ”   A  of Trump’s efforts to repeal   and replace Obamacare, according to a Quinnipiac University poll. ” ”   The White House has also been playing defense on Trump’s   unfounded claim that former president Barack Obama had Trump   Tower wiretapped during the 2016 campaign. There has been no   evidence to support that theory, according to bipartisan   consensus in Congress and in the intelligence community. ” ’   The Trump administration also recently prompted outrage from   immigrants rights groups and protesters when it rolled out a    aimed at regulating immigration from   a number of   countries. ’ ’   Though it was narrower in scope than the original order, Trump   implied that it was written with the same intent,  it a ”watered down version” of the original ban. The   executive order was  by two federal judges. ’ ”   The last time Trump’s approval rating hit a low point was in    . At the time, the White House was embroiled in   several controversies, including the resignation of national   security adviser Michael Flynn, the president’s repeated attacks   on the judiciary after his original travel ban was struck down,   and his perceived lack of response towards rising     across the nation. ” ”   This is the lowest approval rating of any president’s first 60   days as tracked by Gallup: ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tTrump approval drops to 37%   the worst Gallup poll any president has ever had this early in their term.  ’ ’ ’t’t’  Job approval upon hitting 60 days in office:Carter 75Reagan 60HW Bush 56Clinton 53W Bush 58Obama 63Trump. .. 37’t’t’ ”President Donald Trump’s approval rating is at. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’