’  ’ ”   Democratic representative Adam Schiff defended the House   Intelligence Committee’s continued investigation into ties   between Donald Trump’s campaign and Russian operatives to NBC’s   Chuck Todd on Sunday. ” ’   ”There is circumstantial evidence of collusion,”  on ”Meet the Press.” ’ ’   ”There is direct evidence, I think, of deception and that’’s where   we begin the investigation.” ’ ’   Republican representative Devin Nunes, the chair of the House   Intelligence Committee, denied the existence of evidence against   the Trump campaign. ’ ’   ”I’’ll give you a very simple answer: no,” he said Sunday on Fox   News. ”Up to speed on everything I have up to this morning.   There’’s no evidence of collusion.” ’ ’   Senior intelligence officials,    have also denied that there is evidence pointing to collaboration   between the Trump campaign and Russian officials. ’ ’   ”I was surprised to see Director Clapper say that because I don’’t   think you can make that claim categorically as he did,” Schiff   told Todd in response to Clapper’’s assertion. ’ ’   ”There is certainly enough for us to conduct an investigation,”   he said. ”The American people have a right to know and in order   to defend ourselves, we need to know whether the circumstantial   evidence of collusion and direct evidence of deception is   indicative of more.” ’ ’   The House Intelligence Committee will hold a hearing Monday   focusing on Russian interference in the 2016 election. ’ ’   ”I think people need to understand we are in a global war of   ideas,” Schiff said. ”It’’s not communism versus capitalism but it   is authoritarianism versus democracy and Putin is very much at   the vanguard of that autocratic movement, and that ought to   concern all of us.” ’ ’  ’ ”   Schiff also addressed President Trump’s unfounded claim that   former president Barack Obama had him wiretapped in Trump Tower. ” ’   There is ”no evidence to support the president’’s claim that he   was wiretapped by his predecessor,” Schiff said, responding   to comments made by Republican senator Susan Collins, who said   she wanted to ”get to the bottom of [the wiretapping claim]   before saying what should be done.” ’ ’   ”I have a lot of respect for Susan Collins but I have to differ   with her on this  —   ’’We need to get to the bottom of this. ’’ We are   at the bottom. There is nothing at the bottom,” Schiff countered. ’ ”   Officials have said they’ve been unable to find any evidence thus   far that Obama had Trump Tower wiretapped. FBI Director James   Comey, who will appear at the House Intelligence Committee’s   hearing tomorrow,    which it did not do. ” ’   ”I hope that we can put an end to this wild goose chase because   what the president said was just patently false, and the wrecking   ball it created now has banged into our British allies and our   German allies,” Schiff said. ’ ’   He added: ”It’’s continuing to grow in terms of damage and he   needs to put an end to this.” ’ ’ ’ ’Democratic representative Adam Schiff defended. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’