’  ’ ’   FBI Director James Comey said on Monday during a public hearing   before the House Intelligence Committee that the bureau opened   its investigation into Russia’’s interference in the US election   in July and concluded by December that Russia had interfered to   ”hurt” Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton and ”help” President   Donald Trump. ’ ’   Comey told the House Intelligence Committee that the   investigation, which ”includes whether there was any coordination   between the Trump campaign and Russian efforts,” was still in its   early stages and that he had ”no timetable” for its conclusion. ’ ”   But the FBI’s opening of its investigation coincided with a   flurry of events that increased scrutiny of the Trump campaign’s   friendly attitude toward Russia. ” ”   Those events included a hack of the Democratic National Committee   in June that was attributed to Russia, an early     adviser’s trip to Moscow in early July, a change made before the   Republican National Convention in July in the GOP platform’s   policy toward arming Ukraine, WikiLeaks’ release of stolen DNC   documents in late July, and Trump’s subsequent urging of Russia   to hack Clinton’s email server. ” ’   The DNC confirmed in   that it had been hacked, and the   cybersecurity firm CrowdStrike said that it had concluded with ”a   very high degree of confidence” that the hack was linked to the   Russian government. ’ ’’ ’   Shortly after the DNC hack was made public, Carter Page, then a     adviser to Trump’’s campaign, traveled to Moscow,   where he delivered a commencement speech at the New Economic   School that was highly critical of US foreign policy. Page had   served as an adviser ””   for Russia’’s   energy giant Gazprom before setting up   his own energy investment fund, Global Energy Capital, with   Sergey Yatesenko, a former Gazprom executive. ’ ”   Page was in Moscow for three days, but it’s unclear what he did   or whom he met with before and after the speech. Yahoo’s Michael   Isikoff, citing a Western intelligence source,  that Page had met with Igor Sechin, a   Russian oligarch and the CEO of Russia’s   oil company,   Rosneft. Page has denied those reports, but he resigned from the   campaign shortly after the report was published. ” ’   In July, while Paul Manafort was Trump’’s campaign manager, an   amendment to the GOP’’s draft policy on Ukraine, which had   proposed sending ”lethal weapons” to the Ukrainian army to fend   off Russian aggression  —   a stance that was generally consistent   with the Republican Party’’s position  —   was watered down to say   ”provide appropriate assistance.” ’ ’   Manafort had advised the   Ukrainian leader Viktor   Yanukovych, whom he helped win the presidency in 2010. ’ ”   The language change was orchestrated by two     experts sent to sit in on a   subcommittee   meeting on behalf of the Trump campaign, according to one of the   experts, J. D. Gordon, and the original amendment’s author, Diana   Denman, who was also in the meeting. As  the   circumstances around the language change are controversial, and   there are conflicting accounts about the reason for the change.   The policy amendment with the softer language was ultimately   included in the GOP platform. ” ’   A few days later, WikiLeaks began publishing emails that had been   stolen from the DNC and the Clinton campaign. The timing   coincided with the start of the Democratic National Convention   the following week. ’ ”   WikiLeaks didn’t reveal the source of the documents. But the   emergence in early August of a shadowy figure who called himself   Guccifer 2. 0 claiming responsibility for the DNC cyberattack   added to suspicions that the hacking and disinformation campaign   was linked to the Russian government. ” ’   Guccifer 2. 0, who said he targeted Democrats in the heat of the   election last summer, has denied having any links to Russia. But   ThreatConnect, a cybersecurity firm based in Arlington, Virginia,   has concluded that Guccifer 2. 0 used the   virtual   private network Elite VPN to secure later communications with   politicians and reporters. ’ ’   Roger Stone, a former Trump adviser and longtime confidant,    private messages with Guccifer 2. 0 in     that were ”short and innocuous.” ’ ’   During a press conference on July 27, Trump called on Russia   directly to hack his opponent. ’ ’   ”Russia, if you’’re listening, I hope you’’re able to find the   30, 000 emails that are missing,” Trump said, apparently referring   to the emails that were deleted from Clinton’’s private email   server before it was handed over to the FBI in late 2015. ’ ’   ”I think you will probably be rewarded mightily by our press,”   Trump added. (There had been a media frenzy surrounding   WikiLeaks’’ release of the DNC emails.) ’ ’ shortly after an ”Access Hollywood” video   surfaced of Trump making lewd remarks about women, WikiLeaks   published the first batch of emails stolen from Clinton’’s   campaign chairman, John Podesta. ’ ”   Seventeen US intelligence agencies concluded in January that   Russia interfered in the US election  —   hacking into the DNC and   Podesta’s inbox and leaking the stolen documents to WikiLeaks  —     to undermine Clinton. ” ’   Comey and National Security Agency Director Mike Rogers said on   Monday that that assessment had not changed. ’ ’FBI Director James Comey said on Monday during. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’