’  ’ ’   Ivanka Trump will have her own office on the second floor of the   West Wing,  on Monday. In addition to an office, Ivanka   will also receive security clearance and     communications devices this week. ’ ’   However, she will not be an official government employee. Ivanka   will not be sworn in, she will not have an official title or   position, and she won’’t receive a salary, her attorney, Jamie   Gorelick, told Politico. She will function as President Trump’’s   ”eyes and ears,” her attorney said. ’ ”   Gorelick did concede that Ivanka’s elevation to the new role   raises some ethical questions concerning her business interests.   While she divested of significant assets, she retains ownership   of her fashion and jewelry brand, though she stepped down before   Trump assumed office. ” ’   ”The one thing I would like to be clear on: we don’’t believe it   eliminates conflicts in every way,” Gorelick said. ”She has the   conflicts that derive from the ownership of this brand. We’’re   trying to minimize those to the extent possible.” ’ ’   Gorelick told Politico that Ivanka cannot sell her business   because the buyer would be able to use her name, which could   raise further ethical concerns. So instead, her lawyer said she   will distance herself ”as much as possible” from her brand and   place her interests in a trust. ’ ’   It will not, however, be a blind trust. Instead, her   and      Josh Kusher and Nicole Meyer will control it. Josh   Kushner’’s brother and Ivanka’’s husband, Jared, is a senior   adviser to President Trump. Politico reports that though her      and    will control the trust, they   will ”be prohibited from entering the brand into any agreements   with foreign countries or agencies.” ’ ’   And though the first daughter has appointed Abigail Klem to be   president of her brand, Ivanka will still have veto power over   any deals that are ”unacceptable from an ethics perspective.” ’ ”   This is not the first time that Ivanka Trump’s brand has been   ensnared in a grey area when it comes to mixing government   business with personal and financial interests. ” ’   She is  in a lawsuit brought by a San   Francisco retailer who alleges that her the Ivanka Trump brand is   capitalizing on Trump’’s presidency to further its business.   Shortly after the election, her company landed in hot water after   it promoted a bracelet she wore during an interview on ”60   Minutes.” ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tWhite House as QVC. It has started.  ’ ’   In July 2016, Ivanka promoted the dress she wore during her   speech at the Republican National Convention. The dress sold out   soon after she touted it. ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tShop Ivanka’s look from her  speech:    ” ’   Ethics experts say that the steps she has taken  —   which also   include her decision to donate royalties and net proceeds from   the release of her book, ”Women Who Work,” to charities that   focus on women in the workplace  —   are better than nothing, but   that things are complicated by the blatant ethical breaches of   her father’’s administration. ’ ”   President Trump’s businesses, which include his luxury hotels and   golf courses, still do business with foreign interests, and he   has not divested his interests. Instead, he has placed them in a   trust controlled by his two sons, who are at the helm of the   Trump Organization while their father is in the Oval Office. ” ’   Speaking about Ivanka Trump’’s move into the White House, ethics   expert Norm Eisen, who served under former president Barack   Obama, told Politico: ”You might be inclined to view this   differently and more generously if the White House had shown a   stronger commitment to ethics enforcement.” ’ ’Ivanka Trump will have her own office on the. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’