’  ’ ”   Don’t call it a kickback. The provision slated to be added to the   American Health Care Act at the behest of New York Republicans   doesn’t actually give anything to New York state. ” ’   It would make parts of the state significantly worse off  —     and not necessarily the parts you might expect. ’ ’   Two likely losers under the amendment would be Suffolk and   Nassau Counties on Long Island, represented by Republican Reps.   Peter King and Lee Zeldin, two more moderate members of the   caucus who have not yet said how they will vote. ’ ’   Medicaid is usually described as a joint   program,   but New York has an unusual arrangement in which counties   pay 13% of the bill for Medicaid. ’ ’   In an effort to round up votes for the AHCA from Republican   congresspeople from New York, Rep. Chris Collins (who represents   the Buffalo area) won an amendment that would effectively force   New York to stop sending any part of the bill to localities   except New York City. ’ ’’ ’   That change would save counties $2. 3 billion a year, and would be   especially favorable to counties in upstate New York, where most   of the state’’s Republican members of Congress live. But New   York state would have to look somewhere to replace the revenue   lost from counties, and ”somewhere” would probably be a tax that   would fall disproportionately on taxpayers in New York   City’’s suburbs. ’ ”   A lot of New York voters have misconceptions about how tax   revenue flows in the state. People in New York City complain   that upstate is living off all the tax revenue generated by   businesses and high earners in the city. Upstate residents are   convinced they’re paying for big, expensive social   programs in New York City. ” ”   The truth is that, when New York’s state government taxes and   spends, upstate tends to win, while New York City comes out a   little bit behind. The biggest losers  —   the areas with the   largest gap between what they pay in state taxes and   what they get back in services  —      which have high incomes like the city but not its high appetite   for social services. ” ’   Eliminating the local responsibility for Medicaid would tend to   reinforce this dynamic. ’ ’   Bill Hammond of the Empire Center for Public Policy, an     conservative think tank,* : The state would start paying for   the whole Medicaid program outside New York City. In exchange,   counties outside the city would give up 1. 2 percentage points of   the sales tax they currently receive, allowing the state to use   this revenue to fill the hole in Medicaid. New York City would   keep its existing arrangement. ’ ”   This structure has been previously proposed by county officials,   and Gov. Andrew Cuomo’s lieutenant governor, Kathy Hochul,    if the   AHCA becomes law. ” ”   Hammond found that most counties would be better off under   this arrangement: The Medicaid bills they’d be relieved of paying   would exceed the sales tax receipts they would lose. But about a   quarter of the counties would be made worse off,   including wealthier suburban ones such as Nassau and   Suffolk. ” ’   There are other ways you could slice the revenue apple. For   example, you could throw New York City into the new financing   scheme, even though AHCA would not obligate the state to do so.   But that would be even worse for the suburbs, Hammond says. ’ ”   New York City has disproportionate sales tax revenue. But it   generates an even more disproportionate share of the state’s   Medicaid expenses, so unlike on other programs, the city would   tend to come out ahead if responsibility for the program   were shifted to the state. ” ’   This would make the city a fiscal winner, and most other   counties  —   in the much more Republican parts of the state   outside New York  —   into losers. ’ ”   This amendment to the AHCA would blow up New York’s existing   structure for funding Medicaid, but it wouldn’t impose a new   structure. State lawmakers would have to agree on a new Medicaid   funding formula as part of budget negotiations among Cuomo,   an Assembly dominated by Democrats from New York City, and the   state Senate. ” ’   The Senate has a precarious Republican majority, whose   members are divided between upstate and Long Island  —     that is, between two regions that would likely come out with   opposite ends of the stick from any Medicaid funding changes. ’ ’   This is probably why John Flanagan, the Republican Senate   Majority Leader from Long Island,  he has ”a certain amount of skepticism”   about the amendment, even though it was in theory written   specifically to please Republicans from New York. ’ ”   Funding Medicaid with the sales tax would be unfavorable to   Flanagan’s constituents and those of other downstate   Republicans in the state Senate. Funding it with a   statewide income tax increase would be anathema to the goals of   the state’s Republicans. Plus, as Flanagan told Spectrum,   counties might not even cut taxes to fully offset their savings   from no longer needing to pay for Medicaid. ” ”   I get why this amendment would be good for the Buffalo and   Syracuse areas, and why Republican members of Congress from   upstate would like it. I don’t see what’s in it for the three   downstate Republicans in New York’s delegation. ” ’ *Disclosure: I did some work for the Empire Center when I was   a fellow at the Manhattan Institute for Policy Research, from   2009 to 2012. ’ ”Don’t call it a kickback. The provision slated. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’