’  ’ ’   The unusual decision by the Department of Justice to allow FBI   Director James Comey to publicly disclose the existence of an   ongoing investigation into contacts between the Trump campaign   and Russia may have been spurred, albeit unwittingly, by the   president himself, according to a former department official. ’ ’   When President Donald Trump accused his predecessor of having   tapped his phones in a tweet two weeks ago, he implicitly accused   the intelligence community  —   which would be charged with carrying   out that kind of surveillance, because the president does not   have the authority to unilaterally order the wiretapping of a US   citizen  —   of . ’ ’   ”He essentially accused people in the FBI and DOJ of breaking the   law by illegally wiretapping him, and the department had a   responsibility to clear up the facts both to Congress and the   public,” Matthew Miller, a Justice Department spokesman during   the Obama administration, told Business Insider on Tuesday. ’ ’   Comey reportedly was so ”incredulous” about Trump’’s explosive   tweet that he  to publicly rebuke it. The   department initially declined to do so. ’ ”   But it soon became clear that even after the House Intelligence   Committee’s assurances that it had found no evidence of   wiretapping, Trump would not rescind his accusations  —   he    to German Chancellor Angela Merkel on Friday  —     and the White House would not walk them back. (Sean Spicer, the   press secretary, defended them last week by citing an unverified   report that said the UK  in the wiretapping.) ” ’  ’ ”   On Monday, Comey testified to Congress that  Trump’s claims. But he   went a step further, announcing that the Justice Department had   cleared him to disclose that the FBI was investigating whether   the president or his campaign team had contacts with Russia   during the campaign. ” ’   That was a ”very unusual” move, Miller said. But it may have been   necessary because in clarifying the scope of the investigation   into Russia’’s interference in the 2016 presidential election and   denying that it included a wiretap of Trump Tower ordered by   Obama, the FBI was ”already in the business of explaining how the   investigation was being conducted,” Miller said. ’ ’   ”I believe it then became logical to just confirm what they were   looking at,” Miller said. ”In other words, Trump has his own big   mouth to thank for the fact the world now knows his campaign is   under federal criminal investigation.” ’ ’   The White House disputed that any revelations arose from Comey’’s   statements, saying that ”the existence of this   counterintelligence probe was reported before the election.” ’ ’   ”The only thing new we learned yesterday was that it had been   going on since July, meaning that after nearly nine months, no   one who has been briefed on it has been presented with any   evidence of collusion,” White House assistant press secretary   Michael Short told Business Insider on Tuesday. ’ ’   White House press secretary Sean Spicer  however, that there was ”no reason   to believe” that Trump was a target of a counterintelligence   investigation, which turned out to be incorrect. Short did not   respond to a request to clarify the discrepancy. ’ ’   Comey acknowledged on Monday that the FBI had opened its   investigation in July but could not brief Congress on the probe   until recently ”because of the sensitivity of the matter.” He   added that nine months for a counterintelligence investigation   was ”a fairly short period of time” and said there was no way for   him ”to give you a timetable as to when it will be done.” ’ ’   ”All I can tell you is what we’’re investigating, which includes   whether there was any coordination between people associated with   the Trump campaign and the Russians,” Comey said. ’ ’   Miller said the FBI ”almost never briefs Congress on ongoing   criminal investigations, especially ones that are politically   sensitive.” ’ ”   Comey’s critics have said he  about the FBI’s investigation into   Hillary Clinton’s private email server  —   which he announced had   been closed  in July, then  in late October  —   than about the   investigation into Trump’s ties to Russia. That probe had been   underway for over three months by the time Trump was elected and   had not been disclosed publicly until Monday. ” ’The unusual decision by the Department of. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’