’  ’ ’   Rep. Adam Schiff slammed House Intelligence Committee chair Devin   Nunes on Wednesday over his disclosure that the intelligence   community may have  working for President Donald Trump. ’ ’   Committee Chair Devin Nunes announced Wednesday that he viewed   reports proving the intelligence community had ”incidentally   collected” information about Trump’’s transition team, and   independently reported the findings to the White House. ’ ”   In an interview on CNN, the ranking Democrat on the House   Intelligence Committee decried Nunes’ decision to brief the White   House on his findings before informing the committee.  ” ’   ”We can’’t conduct a credible investigation this way,” Schiff   said. ”The chairman really has to make a decision whether that’’s   his intention, that’’s what he wants to do, or he wants to be a   surrogate for the president. But he can’’t do both.” ’ ’   He continued: ”It was a deeply disturbing turn, and certainly a   body blow to the investigation.” ’ ’’ ”   The California Democrat also dismissed  the president’s claim he was wiretapped by   former President Barack Obama, pointing out that both FBI   Director James Comey and NSA Director Mike Rogers testified that   they were unaware of any evidence supporting  Trump’s   allegation. ” ’   ”I think ultimately that will be debunked because as a   fundamental matter, the director of the FBI would know about it,”   Schiff said, adding, ”I don’’t think there’’s anything   vindicated here except the president’’s commitment to now   quadruple down on a baseless accusation on his predecessor.” ’ ’   Though he did not call for Nunes to step down, Schiff said the   committee needed to decide whether the chair should remain. ’ ’   ”I think we need to have a conversation in committee with all the   members, and the chairman and I need to hash this out, because   this undermines our efforts,” Schiff said. ’ ’   Schiff was one of a number of Democrats who blasted the chair. ’ ’   House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi called for Nunes to step down,   while a spokesman for the Democratic National Committee called   for a ”   commission” to investigate potential ties   between the Trump campaign and Russia. ’ ’Rep. Adam Schiff slammed House Intelligence. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’