’  ’ ”   Rep. Devin Nunes on Wednesday threw a  middle investigations   surrounding President Donald Trump, his claims of being   wiretapped by his predecessor, and Russia’s meddling in the   election. ” ’   And he now finds himself in a central role after making   Republicans and Democrats alike scratch their heads over what   appeared to be an unprecedented move. ’ ’   Nunes, the chair of the House Intelligence Committee, called for   a sudden 1 p. m. press gathering Wednesday, with its subject   unclear. But once it began, he fired off what sounded like a   bombshell revelation: The intelligence community, he said,   had ” ’ ’on ”numerous occasions” and was not related   to the FBI’’s investigation into Russian meddling in last year’’s   presidential election. ’ ’   ”Details about US persons associated with the incoming   administration, details with little or no apparent foreign   intelligence value, were widely disseminated in intelligence   community reporting,” Nunes said. ’ ’   The information he spoke of was collected legally, in his view,   under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, and he did   not know if the surveillance consisted of phone calls, but that   the intelligence reports he had seen ”clearly show” Trump and his   team were ”monitored.” ’ ’   Another wrinkle: The White House, he said, was totally unaware of   what he was describing to the press. So after the conclusion of   his impromptu briefing, he went to 1600 Pennsylvania   Avenue to alert the president and his administration. ’ ’   Following his White House meeting, Nunes stood outside for   another press conference. While he said this information did not   in any way prove Trump’’s inflammatory,   Twitter   claim that President Barack Obama wiretapped phones at Trump   Tower, Nunes said he had ”no idea” whether the collection was   intentional spying on behalf of the government. ’ ’   ”We won’’t know that until we get to the bottom of did people ask   for the unmasking of additional names in President Trump’’s   transition team,” he said. ’ ”   A member of Trump’s transition team, Nunes finds himself    investigation into Russia’s effort to manipulate the 2016 US   presidential election. It was  in front of   Nunes’ committee that FBI Director James Comey  the bureau had been investigating   potential ties between the Trump campaign and the Russian   government since late July. Additionally, Comey said the   Department of Justice could provide no evidence to back up   Trump’s explosive claim that Obama wiretapped him. ” ’   But Nunes, in his White House press conference, said he found   nothing wrong with briefing the president on information that   could be related to an ongoing investigation into members of his   administration and campaign team.  ’ ’   ”Because what I saw had nothing to do with Russia and the Russian   investigation,” Nunes said. ”It has everything to do with   possible surveillance activities, and the president needs to know   these intelligence reports are out there, and I have a duty to   tell him that.” ’ ”   Many others didn’t see it this way. ” ’   Luke Russert, a former Capitol Hill reporter for NBC, said the   episode was ”insane” and that in seven years covering Congress,   he ”never saw something like this from” an intelligence chair. ’ ’  ’ ’   Evan McMullin, a former CIA operative who ran an independent   presidential campaign in 2016, said that with Nunes saying the   communications were ”incidentally collected,” : ”Who was Trump talking to?” ’ ’   ”If what Devin Nunes says is true, Trump was communicating with   persons of intelligence or criminal interest,” . ”This is Devin Nunes doing President Trump and   Congressional Republicans a favor by muddying the waters on the     investigation.” ’ ’   Joe Scarborough, the host of MSNBC’’s ”Morning Joe” and an     congressman,  that Nunes’’ actions were cause for him   to be removed as chair of the committee. And David Jolly, a   fellow   congressman who has been fiercely critical   of Trump in recent days, tweeted that Nunes and the entirety of   the House GOP has ”zero credibility now.” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Schiff, the ranking Democrat on the intelligence committee,   seemed in his own right flabbergasted about Nunes’ move during   an   press conference where he essentially said   Nunes’ Wednesday moves soiled their panel’s investigation. ” ”   The California Democrat said hadn’t seen or heard of the reports   Nunes spoke of before he discussed the matter with the   media, House Speaker Paul Ryan, and Trump.  ” ’   ”The chairman will need to decide whether he is the chairman   of an independent investigation into conduct which includes   allegations of potential coordination between the Trump campaign   and the Russians, or he’’s going to act as a surrogate of the   White House,” Schiff said. ”Because he cannot do both.” ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Unfortunately I think the actions of today throw great   doubt into the ability of both the chairman and the committee to   conduct the investigation,” he said. ”I’’ve expressed these grave   concerns with the chairman.” ’ ’   Schiff said the disclosure heightened the necessity for an   investigation to take place by a fully independent   body. He even went as far to suggest the move could be a part of   a broader conspiracy. ’ ’   ”I’’m not sure what the point of this extraordinary process is and   I have to hope that this is   ’ ’  ’ ”   Trump’s allies took the Wednesday news as word that the president   was vindicated for his earlier assertion about Obama, which   earned him scorn across the political spectrum and led to the   sitting FBI director having to publicly rebuke the claims. ” ’   Fox News host Sean Hannity  after the Nunes episode to   declare victory over the ”destroy Trump media” and asked if   anyone doubted whether American journalism was ”dead.” ’ ’   ”Devin Nunes confirms SURVEILLANCE VS POTUS,” he wrote. ”Sara   Carter, John Solomon, Sean Hannity right again. Destroy Trump   media wrong again. . .. Any doubts journalism in America is   DEAD? Alt left propaganda destroy @realDonaldTrump media is the   opposition party. Bannon correct.” ’ ’   Asked about the Nunes revelations after meeting with the   intelligence chair, Trump expressed his appreciation for the   California Republican rushing to tell him what he found. ’ ’   Did he feel vindicated for his widely panned claims?  ’ ’   ”I somewhat do,” he said. ’ ’Rep. Devin Nunes on Wednesday threw a huge. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’