’  ’ ’   A typical day for Chris Bosh sounds like a normal day for many   people. ’ ”   He’ll wake up, work out, help his wife around the house, practice   guitar, hang out with his kids, go out to dinner, then call it a   night by watching some TV. ” ”   Of course, this isn’t what Bosh was planning to do in the middle   of the NBA regular season at 32. ” ”   Bosh’s NBA career has been put on hold. He has twice had a season   end prematurely when tests found blood clots in his legs; one   traveled up to his lungs during the   season. At the start   of training camp in 2016, when Bosh was on blood thinners, the   Miami Heat said they were . ” ’   Forced off the court but still under contract with the Heat, Bosh   has had to examine himself and determine what he wants to do with   his newfound free time. ’ ’   ”I have to be extremely creative, more creative than I’’ve ever   been in my life, because that’’s such a tough question to ask,”   Bosh told Business Insider. ”When money is not an object, what   kind of picture do you want to paint? What do you want to create?   Pretty tough question.” ’ ’   Recently, Bosh has become a more public figure, as part of TNT’’s   ”Players Only” NBA broadcasts, in which former players hold down   the studio and call the games, combining color commentary and     . Bosh was approached by Turner at the Consumer   Electronics Show in Las Vegas in January. Pitched to do five   ”Players Only” shows, Bosh accepted the offer. ’ ’   ”It wasn’’t a   commitment  —   which I’’m not looking to   commit to anything   right now  —   and they had what seemed   to be a very cool offer,” Bosh said. ”So I went ahead and took   it. It seemed like a great cast of guys.” ’ ’   Bosh has adjusted well so far, he says. He tries to mix in fair   analysis and criticism, suggesting solutions to problems  —   which   he says some critics forgo. He said he believes his experience as   a player helps his analysis. ’ ’   ”I could talk basketball all day,” he said. ”I do talk basketball   all day, so it’’s just a very smooth transition. They just flip   the cameras on.” ’ ’   Music has become perhaps Bosh’’s biggest passion. He’’s started   playing guitar, taking lessons and learning on his own,   experimenting based on the advice of some ”great guitar players”   he has talked to. ’ ’   ”You have to pick it up every day and just figure it own on your   own,” Bosh said. ”One of the cool elements to music is that’’s a   huge component of it. You have to  —   it has to be a feeling, a   thing that you hear.” ’ ’   Bosh  —   a fan of blues, old country rock, and pure rock and roll  —     has been recording in his home, learning the ins and outs of   making and developing music. ’ ’   Though he says he brings his guitar with him everywhere he goes  —     in January, he played on stage   —   he mostly has kept the   passion to himself. ’ ’   ”I haven’’t found my band yet, no,” Bosh said, laughing. ’ ’  ’ ’   Bosh dabbles in other projects, too, though none as much as   music. He has long been into craft beer and home brewing, once    but he   says the arduous process has delayed that hobby a bit. ’ ’   ”It’’s like one of those things if you make a mistake, it could be   six weeks down the drain,” Bosh said. ”By myself, it takes a good   solid seven hours just to get something that’’ll start fermenting.   I will always be into it, but I need to find a better system.” ’ ’   Bosh suggested a simpler route. ’ ’   ”Or just, like, go to a brewery and hope they could put some   stuff to the side for me,” he said. ’ ”   He also said he plans to get into film  —   he said he was working   on a few projects but didn’t reveal further details. ” ’   Bosh’’s sunny disposition is despite what he says is an   ”unfortunate situation.” Calling 2016 a ”rough year,” Bosh said   he has learned to look for the good in being away from the game. ’ ’   ”I quickly learned how to just take everything in stride and just   enjoy the moment that I’’m at,” he said. ”Indeed, it was an   unfortunate situation, but I know it could be much worse, and I   have a family to provide for and things of that nature, so it   made me have to break down true perspective. ’ ’   ”In the world, in the things that I’’ve done and the places that   I’’ve seen, I’’m pretty lucky. I just use that as kind of a   motivation to say, ’’Hey, things will be alright. I’’m right where   I need to be, and, you know, it could be worse. ’’” ’ ”   Being away from the NBA has had its perks, too. He doesn’t miss   the aches and pains of the season, and he has enjoyed being   around his family more. ” ’   ”That’’s one thing I realized is how much that I’’m gone from my   children and my wife and my home. You just realize how tedious   the schedule is, and those flights and cold cities  —   Miami is a   luxury  —   and hotels . .. those walls close in on you. It’’s not   easy. It’’s definitely a tough job.” ’ ”   It’s unclear what happens next for Bosh as far as basketball   goes, but as he said, he’s not making any   commitments.   Reports circulating in the NBA say the Heat will eventually buy   Bosh out, making him a free agent. Whether another team would   take a chance on him, given his health issues, is uncertain. ” ”   Bosh said he’s excited about what the future holds, whether or   not it involves basketball. ” ’   ”I think that’’s, like, such an exciting thing,” he said. ”I felt   like I was chosen to play basketball when I was younger. ’ ’   ”I’’ve had to ask myself [what’’s next] over and over. And that’’s   the things I think about as far as my legacy as a man and the   things I accomplished, what I meant to my family. And that’’s,   like, totally up in the air. It’’s kinda cool. So just really   focused on having fun and just expressing myself.” ’ ’A typical day for Chris Bosh sounds like a. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’