’  ’ ’   LONDON  —   The Metropolitan Police named the man behind the brutal   attack on Westminster Bridge in the capital on Wednesday as   Khalid Masood. Some of his neighbours had another name for him:   ”The vampire,” because they frequently saw him go out at night. ’ ’   Masood, 52, was born in Kent, grew up in Rye, East Sussex, and   had previously been investigated by MI5 over concerns relating to   violent extremism. ’ ”   While authorities said they were not aware he was planning   Wednesday’s attack, the  that he had a   string of previous convictions over a   period from 1982 to   2003. The married father of three was never convicted of any   terrorism offences. ” ’   The force appealed to the public for more information on Masood,    an ”English tutor,” and was a convert   to Islam. ’ ’: ”Khalid   Masood is not at this early stage believed to be his birth name.”   t he was born Adrien Elms. ’ ’   The Met Police declined to comment beyond its statement when   contacted by Business Insider. ’ ’   The police did not link Masood to a terrorist organisation.    in which five people including the attacker were   killed and at least 40 others were injured. ISIS did not name   Masood in its statement released to Amaq, the news agency linked   to the group. ’ ’   Masood was not named for more than 24 hours as the police   investigated the attack. In the early hours of Thursday morning,   the police raided  in connection to the   investigation and made eight arrests. ’ ’  ’ ’   PC Keith Palmer, a British police officer; Aysha Frade, a     college worker; and Kurt Cochran, an American   tourist,  while seven of the   injured remained in hospital in a critical condition on Thursday. ’ ’ Met Police said Masood was   born in Kent on Christmas Day, 1964. He was living in the West   Midlands, police confirmed. ’ ’. The newspaper also   reported that he left a Winson Green property in December. Winson   Green is an ’ ’  ’ ’   Masood was well known to police for a string of convictions   between 1983 and 2003. These included grievous bodily harm,   possession of offensive weapons, and   offences. ’ ’   His last conviction was for possession of a knife in 2003.   : ’ ’   Police said he has not been convicted for any terrorism offences. ’ ’   In addition to his encounters with the police, Prime Minister   Theresa May said he was investigated by MI5 ”in relation to   concerns about violent extremism.” ’ ’  ’ ”   Other details about Masood’s life are beginning to emerge. ” ’   The Met Police said Masood (born Adrien Elms) went by a number of   names, with Sky News also identifying him as Khalid Choudary. ’ ’   He was a married father of three, according to reports in the   British press. The Westminster attacker, an alleged ”teacher,”   was never actually a qualified teacher,  and apparently called himself an   ”English tutor.” ’ ’   A source, who met him in a professional capacity, told Sky News   Masood was ”a big bloke, he looked like he was a bodybuilder,   wouldn’’t want to mess with him.” ’ ’   A neighbour described him as a ”quiet man.”  that she often saw him washing   his car and mowing his lawn when he lived in Quayside. ’ ’   Another  that he took care of his garden: ’ ’   The Independent : ’ ’ because he would ”frequently” go out at night   dressed in black. ’ ’ he stayed at a £   hotel in   Brighton on Tuesday night, telling staff before he left on the   day of the attack that London ”isn’’t what it used to be.” Masood   checked in at the Preston Park guest house on Friday night and   then again on Tuesday night: ’ ’   The Hyundai 4X4 car he used to mow down pedestrians on   Westminster Bridge was rented from Enterprise in Birmingham,    ’ ’   At about 2:40 p. m. GMT on Wednesday, an assailant drove a 4x4 car   along Westminster Bridge  —   crowded with tourists  —   and hit many   pedestrians. ’ ”   The driver then crashed the vehicle into railings near the houses   of Parliament before entering the grounds and fatally stabbing   Palmer. The BBC and Sky reported that the man, now identified as   Masood, was shot dead by Defence Secretary Michael Fallon’s   security guard. ” ’   A   officer was pictured standing over the attacker   with his gun. ’ ’    ’ ’   Masood was sprawled just metres away from Palmer. ’ ’  ’ ’   The attacker was stripped and searched, presumably for   explosives, before being loaded into an ambulance. He died from   his gunshot wounds. ’ ’  ’ ’Police name the Westminster Bridge killer:. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’