’  ’ ’   Multiple sources told Business Insider that the Thursday vote on   the House Republicans   bill would be postponed   because party leaders failed to reach an agreement on the bill. ’ ”   One of the sources, who spoke with multiple Hill Republicans,   said the vote on the American Health Care Act  —   the GOP   leadership’s bill to repeal and replace Obamacare  —   would be   pushed to a later date. ” ’   The impasse between Republicans came as hardline conservative   members of the GOP in the House Freedom Caucus demanded more   concessions on repealing parts of Obamacare, while moderate   Republicans balked at those aggressive changes. ’ ’   After meeting with President Trump on Thursday,  that there   was no deal agreed to and that the GOP did not have enough votes   to pass the bill. ’ ”   One of Business Insider’s sources said the breakdown   was over the Freedom Caucus’ desire to repeal essential   health benefits  —   part of Obamacare that mandated insurers cover   basic health procedures such as prenatal care and preventive   health services. ” ’’ ”   Reportedly,  and pushed for   a repeal of the ACA’s provisions preventing insurers from denying   patients based on a preexisting condition. ” ’   At the same time,  that the concessions went   too far and a handful came out against the bill for being too   severe. ’ ”   House Speaker Paul Ryan had scheduled a press conference for 3:30   p. m. ET, but it has been postponed. Official word on whether or   not the vote would be delayed is expected at the meeting. Soon   after Ryan’s press conference was postponed, a number of outlets   reported that the vote would be pushed to a later date. ” ’ Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell told   senators not to expect a vote on the bill until Monday, citing   senior Senate aides. ’ ’   Earlier Thursday, Republican Rep. Phil Roe of Tennessee, after   meeting with committee chairs and House Majority Leader Kevin   McCarthy,  would not happen Thursday. ’ ’   Roe told reporters that he expected the vote to be on Friday. ’ ’   Ryan has consistently said that the vote would be on Thursday,   and White House press secretary Sean Spicer said he expected the   vote would continue as scheduled during his     press briefing. Business Insider asked several top House   Republicans for comment, but none immediately responded. ’ ’ which has been tracking   public statements regarding the vote, 31 House GOP members are   against the AHCA with 15 more expressing doubts about the bill. ’ ’   In order for the bill to pass, a maximum of 22 Republicans can   vote against it. ’ ’Multiple sources told Business Insider that the. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’