’  ’ ’   House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes is walking back   his statement that law enforcement officials may have   ”incidentally collected” communications involving President   Donald Trump’’s transition team. ’ ’   According to a spokesperson cited by  on Thursday, Nunes did not know ”for   sure” whether Trump or his staff were even on the phone calls or   other means of communication he cited  —   the crux of Trump’’s   debunked claims that his communications were wiretapped by the   Obama administration. Nunes himself was a member of the   transition team’’s executive committee. ’ ’   ”He said he’’ll have to get all the documents he requested from   the [intelligence community] about this before he knows for   sure,” Nunes’’ spokesperson said, according to ABC News. ’ ’   During a press conference on Wednesday,  that he had received ”dozens of reports” of US   intelligence officials ”incidentally” collecting information on   members involved in the Trump transition, while conducting   ”normal foreign surveillance.” ’ ’   According to Nunes, the information that was collected legally   under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act ”clearly show”   that Trump and his team were ”monitored.” ’ ’   ”Details about US persons associated with the incoming   administration, details with little or no apparent foreign   intelligence value, were widely disseminated in intelligence   community reporting,” Nunes said. ’ ’   After hearing such reports, Trump  that he ”somewhat” felt vindicated on   his claims that he was being wiretapped by his predecessor. ’ ’   ”I very much appreciated the fact that they found what they   found,” Trump said at the White House on Wednesday. ’ ’  ’ ”   However, after briefing Trump on his findings, Nunes did say at a   press conference that he still had doubts on Trump’s   unsubstantiated claim. ” ’   ”No, no, no, no,” said Nunes. ”That did not happen. I’’ve said   this for many, many weeks, including the day after, a couple days   after, in front of the press. That never happened.” ’ ’   ”We won’’t know that until we get to the bottom of did people ask   for the unmasking of additional names in President Trump’’s   transition team.” ’ ”   Meanwhile, Nunes’s actions continue to draw the ire of lawmakers   from both parties. By bypassing his   Democratic   Rep. Adam Schiff of California, and going straight to the Oval   Office to report his initial findings to Trump, he had lawmakers   on the Hill questioning his capability as the chairman of the   Intelligence Committee. ” ’   ”This is a bizarre situation,” Sen. John McCain of Arizona told   Greta Van Susteren in an . ”I’’m calling for a select   committee because I think this    shows that Congress   no longer has the credibility to handle this alone. And I don’’t   say that lightly.” ’ ’House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’