’  ’ ”   President Donald Trump’s former national security adviser Michael   Flynn discussed removing a controversial Muslim cleric from US   soil in a meeting with Turkish government ministers in September,   former CIA Director James Woolsey told  on Friday. ” ’   Flynn  to the Justice Department in his FARA   (Foreign Agent Registration Act) filing late last month. The   filing acknowledged that Flynn’’s lobbying group, Flynn Intel   Group, conducted research that ”focused on” the cleric, Fethullah   Gulen, for Inovo  —   a Dutch consulting firm owned by Turkish   businessman Ekim Alptekin. ’ ”   Alptekin is a member of a Turkish economic relations board run by   an appointee of Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and   Flynn’s firm was tasked with lobbying the US government to   extradite Gulen  —   a Turkish cleric living in Pennsylvania who   Erdogan believes is responsible for planning last year’s   attempted coup and generally fomenting dissent inside Turkey. ” ’   Flynn raised eyebrows when he wrote an   article for  published November 8, alleging that Gulen helmed a   ”vast global network” that ”has all the right markings to fit the   description of a dangerous sleeper terror network.” ’ ’   At that point, Flynn’’s work for Inovo had not yet made news so   the   seemed out of place amid his work with the Trump   campaign. Flynn’’s DOJ filing says the   ”was not written or   published at the request of, or under the direction or control   of, Inovo, the Republic of Turkey, or any other party.” ’ ’’ ”   Woolsey, a Flynn Intel Group board member who was present at the   September meeting, said that Flynn and the Turkish ministers went   further than talking about how to lobby for Gulen’s extradition,   however, and discussed how they could physically remove Gulen   from the country. ” ’   The idea was “a covert step in the dead of night to whisk this   guy away,”Woolsey said, adding that he thought it was ”naive” of   them to think they could bypass the US’’ ”legal process” and   people’’s constiutional rights. ’ ’   ”You don’t send out folks to haul somebody overseas,” Woolsey   told The Journal. ’ ’   Price Floyd, a spokesman for Flynn, strongly denied that such a   discussion ever took place, telling Business Insider on Friday   that Flynn was contracted by Inovo, in part, ”to gather   information on Gulen and turn it over to legal authorities to   take action.” ’ ’   ”At no time did they discuss anyillegal actions, nonjudicial   physical removal or any other such activities,” Floyd added. ’ ”   Reached for comment, Woolsey’s spokesperson, Jonathan Franks,   said that the former CIA director stands by his story. Franks   confirmed that Woolsey had notified Vice President Joe Biden,   through a mutual friend, of what he thought could be an illegal   discussion. The Obama administration said it would not extradite   Gulen until Turkey provided the necessary evidence of his   complicity in the coup, but Trump has not said how he plans to   address the issue, if at all. ” ”   Alptekin, who paid Flynn’s firm just over $500, 000 for the four   months of lobbying,  earlier this month that he did not   agree with Flynn’s decision to register as a foreign agent with   the Department of Justice for his work with Inovo. ” ’   ”It would be different if I was working for the government of   Turkey, but I am not taking directions from anyone in the   government,” Alpetkin said. ’ ’   Still, Flynn said in his filing with the DOJ that his work for   Inovo “could be construed to have principally benefited the   Republic of Turkey.” ’ ”President Donald Trump’s former national. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’