’  ’ ”   Trump associates Roger Stone, Paul Manafort, and Carter Page all   sent letters to the House Intelligence Committee on Friday   volunteering to be interviewed as part of the committee’s   investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 election. ” ”   While Stone, Manafort, and Page  —   Trump’s former campaign   adviser, chairman, and foreign policy adviser, respectively  —   all   have ties to Russia, they have all denied that they helped   facilitate any collusion between the Trump campaign and Moscow   during the election. ” ’   Page, who traveled to Moscow last July while he was still working   with the Trump campaign, told Business Insider on Friday that he   sent a letter to the committee asking them to interview him in a   public session because it will give him the chance to clear up   ”misinformation” about his role in the campaign and connections   to Russia. ’ ’   ”There are a lot of people who twist classified or confidential   information,” Page said. ’ ’   When asked if he had coordinated the timing of his letter to the   committee with Manafort or Stone, Page said that he had ”never   spoken to Paul Manafort in my life.” ’ ’   Yahoo reported in September that Page, who had served as an   adviser ”” for Russia’’s   energy giant Gazprom,   met with Igor Sechin  —   the sanctioned CEO of Russia’’s     oil company, Rosneft, while he was in Moscow. Page has denied   ever meeting with Sechin. ’ ’  ’ ’   Manafort, who was at the center of a media firestorm this week   over revelations that he lobbied on behalf of a Russian oligarch   in the   ”to benefit the Putin government,” said on   Friday via his spokesman Jason Maloni that he ”instructed his   representatives to reach out to Committee Staff and offer to   provide information voluntarily regarding recent allegations   about Russian interference in the election.” ’ ’   ”As Mr. Manafort has always maintained, he looks forward to   meeting with those conducting serious investigations of these   issues to discuss the facts,” Maloni added. ’ ”   Manafort’s work with the   Ukrainian president Viktor   Yanukovych, who was ousted in 2014, has led to speculation that   he was involved in  to the GOP’s platform on Ukraine that   would have called for sending lethal weapons to Ukraine’s army to   fend off Russian aggression. ” ’   Roger Stone, meanwhile, had his lawyer send a letter to House   Intelligence Committee chairman Devin Nunes on Friday morning   saying that Stone ”deeply resents that several members” of the   committee ”have intimated that he has committed treason in his   political, press, and social media activities.” ’ ’   Stone  on   Twitter with a   hacker, Guccifer 2. 0, who was   implicated in a massive cyberattack that targeted the Democratic   National Commit ee last year. Stone told Business Insider earlier   this month that the August interaction was so ”brief and banal, I   had forgotten it.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Stone’’s tweets in the days after  —   in which he predicted that   Hillary Clinton would soon be ”done” and it will ”soon” be   Podesta’’s ”time in the barrel”  —   raised questions about whether   he knew in advance that emails from Hillary Clinton’’s campaign   chairman, John Podesta, would be imminently published by   WikiLeaks. ’ ’   ”As Mr. Stone has repeatedly stated publicly since these matters   have come to light, he is eager to voluntarily appear in an open   session in front of the Permanent Select Committee on   Intelligence without the necessity of a subpoena,” Stone’’s lawyer   wrote to Nunes. ”Mr. Stone is anxious to redress the false and   misleading way he has been portrayed by some on the Permanent   Select Committee.” ’ ’   Nunes, the House Intelligence chairman,  when he decided to cancel an open   hearing with former Director of National Intelligence James   Clapper, former CIA Director John Brennan, and former acting   Attorney General Sally Yates that was set to take place next   week. ’ ’   ”We don’’t welcome cutting off the public access to information   when we have witnesses who are willing to testify in an open   session,” Nunes’’   Democratic Rep. Adam Schiff, said on   Friday. ’ ’Trump associates Roger Stone, Paul Manafort. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’