’  ’ ’   HUNTINGTON BEACH, Calif. (Reuters)   Supporters of President   Donald Trump holding a rally on a popular southern California   beach clashed with   on Saturday. ’ ’   Multiple fights broke out and, according to local media, at least   one Trump supporter was doused with pepper spray when     demonstrators marching along Bolsa Chica State Beach encountered   a small group opposed to the Republican president who had   gathered to denounce the rally. ’ ’   The fights appeared to start in the early afternoon when a dozen     protesters dressed in all black refused to move from a   bike path to allow a larger group of   supporters taking   part in the Make America Great Again rally to pass. The   confrontation escalated into a fight with more skirmishes quickly   breaking out. ’ ’   At least one person was   by an     protester, local media reported. The Los Angles Times identified   the woman who was sprayed as an organizer of the rally, which   drew hundreds of Trump supporters to the stretch of coastline   located south of the   community of Huntington Beach. ’ ’   Known as Surf City, U. S. A. Huntington Beach is located some 40   miles (64 km) south of Los Angeles. ’ ”   Video footage from social media uploaded to the newspaper’s   website showed a chaotic scene with men fighting in the sand and   a group of around 20 Trump supporters, some carrying Trump flags,   chasing a man in a black mask away from the beach and on to a   freeway. The man was stopped by members of the California Highway   Patrol, the newspaper said. ” ’   The masked man had used the pepper spray and was set upon by a   group of Trump supporters, the newspaper reported. ’ ’   Members of the California State Parks police appeared to arrest   two of the   individuals, but the number of arrests was   unclear. ’ ’  ’ ’   The Huntington Beach Police Department directed questions from   Reuters about the incident to the California State Parks police,   who could not immediately be reached for comment. The California   Highway Patrol could not immediately be reached for comment. ’ ’   Demonstrations denouncing the Trump administration have drawn   hundreds of thousands since he took office in January. Smaller   rallies have been staged across the country in support of Trump. ’ ’   On Saturday, Trump praised his supporters. ’ ’   ”Thanks you for all of the Trump Rallies today. Amazing support.   We will all MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!” He said in a message on   Twitter.  ’ ’   (Reporting by Patrick T. Fallon; Writing by Timothy Mclaughlin;   Editing by Sandra Maler) ’ ’HUNTINGTON BEACH, Calif. (Reuters)   Supporters. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’