’  ’ ’   In private, Mark Cuban has started discussing his role in   national politics with his family. ’ ’   He told Business Insider, for instance, that he spoke with loved   ones about his decision to campaign on the trail for Democratic   presidential candidate Hillary Clinton. ’ ’   ”We discussed how much of a threat I believe Trump to be,” Cuban   said in an email. ”We discussed why it was important to me to get   involved  —   that if I could have an impact and didn’’t try, it   would have left me guessing forever.” ’ ’   And, as Cuban said, his family feels ”like we started on the   right path” to ”have a platform and voice for the future.” ’ ’   Cuban, 58, is a   billionaire businessman and the owner   of the Dallas Mavericks. And he seems more serious than ever   about running for president. ’ ’   Cuban refrained from engaging much in politics before the 2016   campaign cycle. But in the past two years he has openly flirted   with a White House bid,  with  about his aspirations. ’ ”   It wasn’t long ago that Cuban was shutting down questions about   whether he’d seek the presidency one day, flatly rejecting the   notion, as he did at the September presidential debate. ” ’   But something changed. It was, as Cuban put it, ”obvious”: the   election  —   unpredictability  —   of Trump. ’ ’   ”What I do depends on how things play out for the country,” Cuban   said referring to a 2020 attempt at unseating Trump. ’ ”   Like Trump, Cuban introduced himself to American households first   as a prominent businessman and later through a   show.   He had no formal history in politics, only suddenly emerging on   the national political stage last year. His strategy for gaining   political prominence was oddly similar to Trump’s  —   deliver hot,   unadulterated takes on cable TV, outlets like CNBC, Fox News, and   CNN, and on Twitter. ” ’   Yet Cuban does not embrace the comparison. ’ ’   ”He talked about running for office for 30 years,” Cuban said. ”I   started talking about politics this year, after avoiding them the   last almost 20 years, because I thought it was important to do   so.” ’ ”   In conversations with Business Insider, Cuban’s longtime friends   said they were initially surprised to see Cuban get involved   politically, but they added that they could certainly now   envision him entering the fray in 2020. And while it would be a   climb to the White House for the tech titan, campaign experts   have laid out a path Cuban could take to find himself in the   Oval Office. ” ”   With Trump’s improbable rise to the presidency, there’s been no   shortage of ultrawealthy, prominent business people rumored to be   considering a run of their own in 2020. ” ”   There’s Oprah Winfrey, Mark Zuckerberg, Starbucks CEO Howard   Schultz, and Disney CEO Bob Iger, all of whom have fed the idea   that Trump could face a fellow executive in his prospective 2020   reelection bid. But no nonpolitician has put him or herself out   there quite like Cuban. ” ”   Cuban, who grew up in the suburbs of Pittsburgh, moved to Dallas   in the early 1980s, finding work as a bartender. He caught his   first big break after he started a software company,   MicroSolutions, which he sold in 1990 for $6 million. But his   biggest break came after he founded AudioNet, which became   Broadcast. com, the streaming site he sold to Yahoo at the peak of   the   boom in 1999 for more than $5 billion in stock. A   year later, he’d buy the Dallas Mavericks and become one of the   NBA’s most recognizable, and outspoken, owners. ” ’   He showed minimal interest in politics in his years since   striking it rich  —   until 2016, when his political presence grew   exponentially after he started roiling Trump along the campaign   trail. ’ ’   Initially, Cuban was warm to Trump, speaking about him in   positive terms. But that eventually changed, and Cuban found   himself delivering blistering stump speeches for Clinton and   ripping Trump on a number of issues, including his wealth. ’ ’  ’ ”   When Trump won the presidency, Cuban went quiet again, ceasing   his attacks on the country’s newly elected leader. ” ’   That lasted only so long, though. When Trump ignited chaos after   signing his executive order on travel from certain     countries, Cuban appeared on several networks to   voice his displeasure with both the decision and the president.   He unleashed a bevy of tweets at the    staking   out a place as the   leader of opposition among the small   community of ultrawealthy business people. ’ ’   And Cuban has been merciless since. He has called Trump ”.” He has suggested Trump wouldn’’t be able   to find the ”C” if he was spotted the ”A” and ”B.” ’ ’   Cuban, in a now deleted tweet, said he was ”crushing” Trump   because the president ”earned it.” ’ ”   That appeared to get under Trump’s skin. ” ’   Last month, Trump fired a shot at Cuban on Twitter, suggesting he   was not ”smart enough” to win the presidency  —   a claim Chris   Sacca, the billionaire venture capitalist and ”Shark Tank”   costar, seemed to disagree with in an email to Business Insider. ’ ’   ”Only Mark can speak to his   ambitions in politics,”   Sacca said. ”But unlike Donald, Mark is smart, reads extensively,   and is willing to ask others for help and listen to their advice   on issues that matter.” ’ ”   But Trump isn’t alone in his criticism. Cuban’s newfound   political platform has left him with a growing set of critics.   One  is Frank Zaccanelli, a Dallas   mogul who   was a part of the Mavericks ownership group headed by Texas   billionaire Ross Perot Jr. who sold the team to Cuban in 2000. ” ’   Zaccanelli, who calls himself a ”pretty good student of Mark   Cuban” although he ”wouldn’’t say we’’re best friends or get along   great,” blasted Cuban for some of his statements and decisions   during his   tenure as Trump’’s foil in the business world. ’ ’   ”What he’’s doing now has put himself out there for a lot of   criticism,” Zaccanelli said. ’ ”   The former Mavericks executive was particularly dismayed by   Cuban’s  to a season ticket holder who was upset by the   owner’s comments about Trump and said he would turn in his season   tickets and boycott games. ” ’   Cuban’’s response? ”DM me and I’’ll help get it done.” ’ ’  ’ ’   ”The way I read it was that if you don’’t want to be a season   ticket holder, I don’’t want you to be one,” Zaccanelli said,   suggesting that Cuban’’s political platform has been a drag on his   businesses, particularly his   team. ’ ’   But Cuban disputed the assertion. ’ ’   ”For every hate email there was a positive one as well,” he said   of the response to his political opining, adding that he didn’’t   see his politics becoming a drag on the Mavericks because   ”remember, Clinton won Dallas County.” ’ ”   A recent poll showed that the split sentiment in Cuban’s inbox   could be indicative of a larger one. The results of that poll,   conducted by the   Public Policy Polling, found that   Cuban would be in a    race against the sitting   president in a prospective    2020 election. ” ’   Tom Jensen, the pollster, said Cuban proved to be ”pretty   competitive given his comparatively low level of name recognition   at this point.” ’ ’   For Cuban to have a serious chance at securing the White House,   he would need to start taking policy positions and filling out   the bare bones of a campaign infrastructure soon, campaign   experts told Business Insider. ’ ’   And unlike Trump, Cuban would have to run more of a ”traditional   campaign,” said Terry Sullivan, Marco Rubio’’s 2016 presidential   campaign manager. ’ ’   ”He definitely comes across as a more cerebral and thoughtful   candidate than Donald Trump, and he’’s clearly got a better,     billionaire story,” Sullivan told Business Insider.   ”But . .. because of that, he’’s not willing to set his hair on   fire to make news in the same way. So it makes it a little more   difficult for him to cut through [the noise] than a Trump   [type].” ’ ’   The first steps to laying out a campaign infrastructure, Sullivan   said, would be to get informed on the issues and begin to take   positions on key areas of policy. ’ ’   Cuban has already started to do that. He put forth a  to fix the Affordable Care Act, and he hammered away   at a jobs platform heavily focused on dealing with what he sees   as an upcoming wave of job loss due to automation, necessitating   ”macro”  changes to economic policies. ’ ’   Should he decide to run, Cuban will also need to address what the   future of his business empire would look like  —   something he said   he has already considered. ’ ’   ”I have so many private business investments that it would be   impossible to sell them,” Cuban told Business Insider. ”I would   put them in a blind trust but make it clear I would still be   available on a limited basis for those companies. It wouldn’’t be   fair to those companies if I just bailed on them. ’ ’   ”I would also be very transparent,” he went on, seeming to take a   jab at Trump, who has come under fire from ethics experts who   have said Trump has not come close to fully complying with      laws and severing his business interests.   ”Truly transparent about what I was doing. And yes, I would make   my returns available.” ’ ’   Sullivan said the next step would be to ”get the media’’s   attention that you’’re a serious candidate.” He suggested Cuban   start traveling to states like Iowa to hint he may be serious   about getting in the fray. ’ ’   ”The amount of attention he would draw by doing a Lincoln Dinner   in Davenport, Iowa, would be huge,” Sullivan said. ”Those are the   kind of things he has to start with.” ’ ’   Sullivan added that Cuban should ”absolutely” hire a team of   political advisers to develop a   strategy for him if he   is sincerely interested in pursuing the White House. ’ ’  ’ ’   Cuban, Sullivan said, should also ”start at the top” and find   someone, preferably with experience, who could manage his   campaign. From there, he could consult that person to make other   hires. ’ ’   ”You reach out to people who’’ve done it before,” Sullivan said.   ”I mean, he shouldn’’t be out there worrying about hiring  —   I’’m   going to hire a press person here or a TV guy here or a policy   guy here. He needs to hire someone to help create the entire   campaign.” ’ ”   The core team would also have to come up with a plan for victory.   At this stage, Sullivan said it isn’t clear whether Cuban would   be better off running as an independent or a Democrat. ” ’   Cuban is not registered with a political party, and he would have   to commission additional polls to gather data to see what his   best route would be at this early stage. ’ ’   ”Plus, it is so early in the Trump administration. You can start   laying the groundwork on things you need to do, but it doesn’’t   necessarily mean you need to make some clear decisions,” Sullivan   said. ”You go into a more preliminary mode now, where you just   put yourself in a position to succeed and then make commitments   for closer in on how you’’re going to run.” ’ ”   Cuban seems content dishing out his takes on cable news and   Twitter. But this isn’t a   model for someone who’s going   to have to go a more traditional route, Sullivan said. ” ’   ”Smart tactics are not necessarily smart strategy,” he added. ’ ”   Reed Galen, deputy campaign manager for Sen. John McCain’s 2008   presidential campaign and California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger’s   2006 reelection bid, told Business Insider that Cuban is going to   have to figure out how much of his own money he wants to spend,   which he suggested might need to be upwards of $500 million if he   decides to run an independent presidential bid. ” ’   ”He won’’t have the party apparatus helping raise money,” said   Galen, now the owner of Jedburghs, a political consultancy firm.   ”There would be people from both parties who would likely work   for him. But the traditional networks that raise money for these   people are at least initially out of bounds or unavailable. So   how much of his own money is he willing to spend?” ’ ’   Galen said Cuban needs to hire experts who have good political   instincts and experience, can convince Cuban against pursuing a   bad idea, and who understand that Cuban’’s campaign will have to   be ”unique to his style.” ’ ”   It’s also a matter of figuring out who Cuban’s base would be and   where he would compete on the map. As an independent, he would   need to run essentially a   campaign, depending on his   endgame. As a Democrat, the map would look slightly different.   Ballot access would also be a huge question, and Galen said   starting early on that would be essential to an independent bid. ” ’   ”Who is the base for a candidate like Mark Cuban?” Galen asked.   ”A lot of research and a lot of work needs to go into that,   because you’’ve got to figure out who you’’ve got to go talk to.” ’ ’   ”What’’s the goal? Is the goal to get to 270? Or is the goal to   get to a draw between the two major parties and an independent   candidate and throw it to Congress? And what does that look   like?” ’ ’   Galen said that the states Cuban should most closely look to   include Texas, where the strategist said he would likely have   some   advantage, as well as some of the states where   the past two presidential races were closely fought. Places like   Pennsylvania, Colorado, Michigan, Arizona, Nevada, Minnesota,   Wisconsin, and Florida should be key targets. ’ ’   In states like those, Galen said Cuban could find himself carving   out ”30% in the middle,” possibly enough to win in a plurality. ’ ’   Cuban also needs to figure out exactly what his message is to   ”invigorate and bring together a very divided and . .. nervous   country,” Galen said. ’ ’   ”How is he going to bring a very tribalistic political society?”   he asked. ”Republicans and Democrats. How’’re you going to start   to peel off those people who have decided that the     system doesn’’t work anymore and are willing to take an   independent as a legitimate choice.” ’ ’   Galen did acknowledge that Cuban ”would be a fascinating addition   to the presidential contenders list.” He also provided Cuban with   advice on what the absolutely first thing he should do is. ’ ’   ”What I’’d have him do is read ’’,” Galen said, referring to   a book on the 1988 presidential election. ”Because there is not   going to be any better opus on what it means to run for president   than that book. ’ ’   ”Short of doing it, of course.” ’ ’   The idea that a Cuban candidacy is being chatted about among the   political class is stunning to his lifelong friends. ’ ’   Then again, so was the fact he became such a prominent surrogate   for Clinton and inserted himself right in the middle of the   heated 2016 discussion. ’ ’   ”It’’s hard to believe,” said Todd Reidbord, the president of     Walnut Capital, who has been a close friend of   Cuban’’s since the two grew up together in Mt. Lebanon, a   prominent Pittsburgh suburb. ”The whole thing is like a dream . ..   None of us could’’ve ever predicted that. But that’’s Mark.” ’ ’   Reidbord described his friend as ”unpredictable” and explained   how he was ”totally” shocked when Cuban was blasting Trump as a   top Clinton surrogate, elevating himself in the political world   in the process. When Cuban stumped for the Democratic   presidential nominee in Pittsburgh, Reidbord was there to see it   firsthand. ’ ’   It would be surprising to Reidbord if Cuban decided to take that   extra step and seek the presidency. But at this point, nothing   really surprises Reidbord about his old pal anymore. ’ ’   ”Every time I’’ve ever tried to guess what he’’s going to do next,”   he said, ”I’’ve never guessed right.” ’ ”   Stu Chaban, another longtime friend of Cuban from Mt. Lebanon,   said he’s confident the billionaire won’t be shy about seeking   the White House if it’s something he genuinely desires. ” ’   ”If it’’s the right thing for him and what he wants, he’’ll do it,”   Chaban said. ’