’’ ”When you have the floor, you’ll want to take full advantage of the opportunity to show that you’ve done your homework and determine if the job is a good fit.” ”But it’s imperative that you put just as much thought into what you ask as you do your responses to their questions. That’s because your queries may reflect your knowledge of the company, work ethic, level of professionalism, and interest in the role.” ’”In the first interview, you’’ll want to be sure to . Ask about the job and company; not questions that can come off as   and give the impression you may not be a team player or be willing to give 100%,” says Amy Hoover, president of the job board .’ ’She continued: ”The sole purpose of the interview is to determine if you are a good fit for the company, and if it’’s a good fit for you. All the other issues and concerns should be addressed during negotiations after the job offer has been made. ”’ ”Here are 23 questions you’ll want to avoid during the first job interview, as they may do more harm than good:” ’Questions like this will make you look unprepared. To avoid that, never ask anything that can easily be answered with a Google search.’ ’Hold off on the money talk.’ ’”Candidates have to walk a thin line between gathering information they need about a company and assuming they are going to get the position,” says Jesse Siegal, a senior managing director at  staffing firm.’ ”Asking about money too early in the process sends the message that you’re arrogant and rude.” ’This says, ”I’’m lazy. ”’ ”Planning your time off before you’ve even gotten the job sends the message that you’re not committed to the work.” ”There’s really no reason to ask this in the interview. Plus, it sends the wrong message.” ’Focus on the job at hand.’ ”The interviewer may wonder if you’ve had problems with colleagues in the past  —   and they may even assume that you’re difficult to work with.” ”It’s better to save this question for the end of the process, when it’s more clear that you’ll receive a job offer.” ’”Often, companies post information about their benefits on their websites in order to attract candidates, so it may be possible to find this information without asking in an interview,” Siegal says.’ ’This may tell the interviewer that money is the only thing you care about.’ ”Don’t try to make adjustments to the schedule before you’ve even been offered the job.” ’Never ask the interviewer any personal questions.’ ’Job seekers should always assume that their prospective employers will find and view their   accounts.’ ’”Asking about whether employers will check raises huge red flags for the company, who may wonder if a candidate will be a threat to the company’’s image,” Siegal says.’ ’This one may also make the interviewer suspicious.’ ”This question will raise red flags  —   something you definitely don’t want to do in the interview.” ’Does it really matter?’ ”You should never bring gossip into a job interview. It’s highly unprofessional.” ”It’s not a good idea to get the interviewer thinking about firing you before they’ve even hired you.” ”This one says that you’re not 100% focused on your work.” ”You haven’t even been offered the job yet and you’re already making special requests? This makes you look cocky and  .” ”No job description is ever set in stone, and essentially saying from the   that you’re not willing to go beyond your role shows that you’re not a team player.” ”Most    jobs will indicate in the job posting that they’re remote. If not, you can assume that telecommuting isn’t the modus operandi for the position.” ”It’s OK to negotiate    arrangements, but you shouldn’t be doing any haggling until you have the job.” ’This one puts the interviewer on the spot. If you really want feedback, wait until you get the offer or rejection, and then ask in an email what you did well or could have done better.’ ’This question projects eagerness that bridges on desperation and neediness. Plus, it demonstrates you have a lack of understanding for how the working world really works.’ ’’ ’’ ”When you’re in the hot seat, there’s a good. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’