’  ’ ”   The FBI is now examining whether members of President Donald   Trump’s campaign team colluded with Russian officials to   undermine Hillary Clinton during the 2016 election. ” ’  ’ ’     ’ ’  ’ ’    ’ ’   ’ ’   ’ ”   Flynn, Page, and Kislyak were named in the dossier as being   complicit in the alleged collusion. On Friday, Page, Paul   Manafort, and Roger Stone  by the House Intelligence   Committee as part of its investigation into Russia’s     meddling. ” ”   Comparing Steele’s reports, which were written between   June and December of last year, with events that unfolded   just before and after the election reveals a series of   coincidences that adds to questions surrounding Russia’s   interference in the election  —   and who knew about it.  ” ’  ’ ” Carter Page, an early foreign policy adviser to Trump, visits   Moscow, the GOP platform is changed, top Trump surrogate    . Jeff Sessions meets Russia’s US ambassador Sergey   Kislyak, WikiLeaks publishes hacked DNC emails, and the FBI opens   its investigation into Russia’s interference. ” ’ Dossier allegations ’ ’   June 20, 2016:  The dossier alleges that Trump had been   cultivated by Russian officials ”for at least five years,” that   the Kremlin had compromising material related to ”sexually   perverted acts” Trump performed at a Moscow Ritz Carlton, and   that Trump’’s inner circle was accepting a regular flow of   intelligence from the Kremlin on Hillary Clinton. ’ ’   The flow of intelligence is being facilitated by  ’ ’ Actual events ’ ’   July 7, 2016: Carter Page, who s    to speak at the New Economic School. There, he   gives a speech that is heavily critical of US foreign policy. He   stays in Russia for approximately three days. ’ ’ Dossier allegations ’ ’   July 19, 2016: A Russian source close to Igor Sechin, the   president of Russia’’s   oil company Rosneft, ”confided   the details of a recent secret meeting”  between Sechin and   Trump campaign adviser Carter Page while Page was in Moscow in   early July. ’ ’   Sechin ”raised with Page the issues of future bilateral energy   cooperation and prospects for an associated move to lift     western sanctions against Russia.” ’ ’ Actual events ’ ’   July 11, 2016: GOP platform week kicks off, one week before the   start of the Republican National Convention. An amendment to the   Republican Party’’s draft policy on Ukraine proposing that the GOP   commit to sending ”lethal weapons” to the Ukrainian army to fend   off Russian aggression  ”provide appropriate assistance.”  ’ ’  ’ ’ Dossier allegations ’ ’   The Trump campaign ”agreed to sideline Russian intervention in   Ukraine as a campaign issue” in return   for   ’ ’ Actual events ’ ’  ’ ’   July 27, 2016: Donald Trump  in which he asks Russian hackers to   ”find the 30, 000 [Hillary Clinton] emails that are missing. I   think you will probably be rewarded mightily by our press. ” ’ ’   July 31, 2016: Jeff Sessions, who  that the west has to ”unify against Russia,”   goes on CNN and characterizes US relationship with Russia as a   ”cycle of hostility” that needs to be resolved. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’ Paul Manafort resigns amid negative press about his work in   Ukraine, and Roger Stone  —   a top Trump confidant and early   campaign adviser  —      that Hillary Clinton’’s campaign chairman, John Podesta, will   ”soon” be targeted. ’ ’ Dossier allegations ’ ”   July 31, 2016: Steele writes that the Kremlin has more   intelligence on Clinton and her campaign but doesn’t know when it   will be released. ” ’   August 5, 2016: The  ’ ’ Actual events ’ ’   August 5, 2016: Roger Stone  that ”a hacker who goes by the   name of Guccifer 2. 0,” and not the Russians, hacked into the DNC   and fed the documents to WikiLeaks. ’ ’   August 12, 2016: ”Guccifer 2. 0” releases files purportedly   stolen in a cyberattack on the Democratic Congressional Campaign   Committee. Guccifer 2. 0’’s Twitter account is briefly   suspended. When it is reinstated, Roger Stone  with the alleged   hacker.  ’ ’  ’ ’   August 15, 2016: Sergei Ivanov, t by Putin.  ’ ’ Dossier allegations ’ ’   August 10, 2016: Steele writes that a ”Kremlin official involved   in US relations” commented in early August that the Kremlin had   been trying to build sympathy for Russia in the US by funding   several political figures’’ trips to Moscow, including Michael   Flynn and Carter Page. The trips were ”successful in terms of   perceived outcomes,” the official said. ’ ’   August 15, 2016: Ousted Ukrainian president   Viktor  ’ ’  ’ ’ Actual events ’ ”   August 19, 2016:  as Trump’s campaign manager after denying that he   ever collected any payments that had been earmarked for him in   Ukraine.  ” ”   August 21, 2016:  about Hillary Clinton’s   campaign chairman, John Podesta. “Trust me, it will soon the   [sic] Podesta’s time in the barrel. #CrookedHillary” ” ’  ’ ’ Trump says he’’ll ”take” Putin’’s ”compliments,” Sessions meets   privately with Kislyak, and Carter Page takes a ”leave of   absence.” ’ ’ Dossier allegations ’ ’   September 14, 2016: A Kremlin official ”confirms from direct   knowledge” that Russia’’s US ambassador Sergey Kislyak had been   aware of the Kremlin’’s interference in the US election, and had   ”urged caution and the potential negative impact on Russia from   the  .” ’ ’   The official says the Kremlin has further kompromat on Clinton   that it plans to release via ”plausibly deniable” channels  —   aka   WikiLeaks  —   after Russia’’s   legislative elections.   But a growing train of thought inside the Kremlin is that Russia   could still make Clinton look ”weak” and ”stupid” without needing   to release more of her emails. It’’s decided that Putin himself   will have final say over whether further Clinton kompromat   is disseminated. ’ ”   Steele writes another dispatch dated September 14, 2016 detailing   the relationship between Putin and Russian oligarchs who control   Russia’s Alfa Bank.  ” ’ Actual events ’ ’   September 7, 2016: NBC’’s Matt Lauer  about his praise of Putin. Trump   replies, ” ’ ’   September 8, 2016: Jeff Sessions and Russian ambassador Sergey   Kislyak meet privately in Sessions’’ office. An administration   official tells NBC in early March  —   when news of the meeting   breaks  —   that ”  news” was likely discussed. ’ ’   September 26, 2016: Carter Page  from the Trump campaign after    alleges that Igor Sechin offered him the   brokerage of a 19% stake in Rosneft. ’ ’  ’ ” Roger Stone tweets foreshadow WikiLeaks’ release of John   Podesta emails, Obama publicly accuses Russia of hacking   Democrats, and the FBI examines computer server activity   between the Trump Organization and Alfa Bank. ” ’ Dossier allegations ’ ’   October 12, 2016:    ’ ’”buyer’’s remorse set in” as Podesta’’s   emails proved less damaging to the Clinton campaign than Russia   had expected. Russians injected further   material   into WikiLeaks pipeline ”which will continue to surface, but best   material already in the public domain.” ’ ’ Actual events ’ ’   October 1, 2016: Roger Stone tweets that  ’ ’      ” ’ ’   October 5, 2016: Stone tweets  ’ ’    ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ” A Russian oligarch  while Trump is there campaigning,   Trump wins the election, Rosneft signs a massive deal,  travels to Moscow again, Obama issues new   sanctions over Russian hacking, and Trump’s lawyer  for Ukraine. ” ’ Actual events ’ ’   November 3, 2016: R ’ ’   November 8, 2016: Donald Trump wins a dramatic and unexpected   victory in the presidential election.  ’ ’  ’ ’   December 7, 2016:  ’ ’  ’ ’   December 29, 2016: Obama   ’ ’   December 30, 2016: Putin announces, unexpectedly and out of   character, that  against the US for the new   sanctions. Says he will ’ ’  ’ ’   January 10, 2017: Top US intelligence officials, including FBI   Director James Comey and former Director of National   Intelligence, James Clapper,  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ” Michael Flynn resigns as national security adviser over   his conversations with Kislyak, Attorney General Jeff Sessions   recuses himself from   investigations, and the   FBI announces it’s been investigating the Trump campaign’s role   in Russia’s election interference. ” ’ Actual events  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   March 2, 2017: Attorney General Jeff Sessions  from the investigation into whether the   Trump campaign communicated with Russia after  that he spoke with Kislyak twice   during the election. Sessions had said in his confirmation   hearing that he did not have any contact with any Russian   officials during the election. ’ ’   March 4, 2017:  without presenting evidence, that ’ ’  ’ ’FBI Director James Comey says    that he has ”no   evidence” to support Trump’’s wiretapping claim, and confirms that   an investigation into Russia’’s   meddling   includes an examination of contacts between Trump associates   and Russia during the campaign. ’ ’The FBI is now investigating whether the Trump. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’