’  ’ ”   Fox News anchor Chris Wallace pressed White House chief of staff   Reince Priebus on Sunday over President Donald Trump’s baseless   claim that President Barack Obama wiretapped Trump Tower during   the 2016 presidential campaign. ” ’   In an interview on ”Fox News Sunday,” Wallace asked Priebus   whether Trump accepted the conclusion from law enforcement and   intelligence officials that there was no evidence to support   Trump’’s accusation. ’ ’   ”Is he ready to apologize?” Wallace asked of Trump. ’ ’   ”No. And I don’’t accept it,” Priebus replied. ’ ”   Priebus echoed the administration’s recent position on Trump’s   claims, which somewhat modified the president’s original tweet. ” ”   Holding up an enlarged   of a New York Times headline,   the chief of staff argued that law enforcement or intelligence   officials may have collected information on members of the   president’s transition team. ” ’   ”The fact is reports have come out for many, many months now that   people on the Trump campaign transition team were surveillanced   by, potentially, some intelligence group,” Priebus said. ”Whether   they were intentionally swept up, whether their names were   unmasked  —   Chris, you don’’t know the answer to that question, and   I don’’t either.” ’ ’   He added: ”But if people on the Trump transition were unknowingly   surveillanced . .. I think it’’s a big problem, and I think   ultimately President Trump is going to be proven correct.” ’ ’   When Wallace asked if Trump believed there was a ”concerted   effort” by the previous White House to leak intelligence   information damaging the new administration, the chief of staff   answered that the ”leaks are apparent.” ’ ’   ”There are leaks out there that are injuring the president,”   Priebus said. ”It’’s wrong and people should be prosecuted.” ’ ’   He added: ”There’’s potentially something very wrong here, but I’’m   not going to go any further than that.” ’ ”   The Fox News anchor also confronted Priebus about House   Intelligence Committee chair Devin Nunes’ decision to brief   Trumps’ team about evidence  —   unsupported publicly by law   enforcement and intelligence officials  —   that Trump transition   officials may have been surveilled. ” ’   ”Does Chairman Nunes coming to the White House and briefing the   president before he briefed his own committee  —   does that   undercut his credibility, and does that open the door for an   independent investigation?” Wallace asked. ’ ’   Priebus refused to endorse or condemn Nunes’’ brief, saying that   the White House doesn’’t ”calculate the decisions that they make   and whether they brief someone or not.” ’ ’   ”I think we let the House committee do its job and see what they   come up with,” Priebus said. ”And by the way: They’’re not going   to come up with anything.” ’ ”   Priebus’ interview capped  in the    which has been confounded by intelligence leaks and Trump’s     accusation of wiretapping. ” ’  ’ ”   Testifying before the House Intelligence Committee on Monday, FBI   Director James Comey announced that the agency was investigating   Trump campaign officials’ relationship with Russia, and said that   the . ” ”   After Nunes briefed the White House on Tuesday about potential   surveillance of Trump officials, Democrats and some Republicans    the chairman for informing Trump’s team before   alerting his own committee, leading some to call for Nunes to   resign and convene an independent investigation into Russia’s   involvement in the election. ” ’   The chairman further  when he canceled an open intelligence   committee hearing on Russia with former Director of National   Intelligence James Clapper, former CIA Director John Brennan, and   former acting Attorney General Sally Yates. ’ ’   Former Trump campaign officials Paul Manafort, Roger Stone, and   Carter Page have agreed to testify before Congress about their   contacts with Russia during the campaign. ’ ’Fox News anchor Chris Wallace pressed White. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’