’  ’ ”   The House Intelligence Committee’s ranking Democrat Rep. Adam   Schiff called on his Republican counterpart Devin Nunes to recuse   himself from the committee’s investigation into President Donald   Trump’s connections with Russia on Monday. ” ’   Schiff’’s statement followed news reports that Nunes, the   committee’’s chairman, was  with a source who showed him secret   intelligence reports. The day after that meeting, Nunes briefed   Trump that he and his advisers may have had their communications   picked up ”incidentally” as part of American surveillance of   foreign leaders. ’ ’   ”After much consideration, and in light of the Chairman’’s   admission that he met with his source of information at the White   House, I believe that the Chairman should recuse himself from any   further involvement in the Russia investigation, as well as any   involvement in oversight of matters pertaining to any incidental   collection of the Trump transition, as he was also a key member   of the transition team,” Schiff said  posted to Twitter. ’ ”   Schiff said he worried the public is losing faith in Nunes’s   ability to conduct an unbiased investigation. ” ’   ”I believe the public cannot have the necessary confidence that   matters involving the President’’s campaign or transition team can   be objectively investigated or overseen by the Chairman,” Schiff   said. ’ ’   Nunes defended his White House visit by saying he wanted ”to have   proximity to a secure location where he could view the   information provided by the source.” The Trump administration was   not aware of his visit, he said. ’ ”   Democrats have seized on Nunes’s announcement, accusing the   Republican of attempting to give political cover for Trump, who   claimed in a series of shocking tweets this month that his   predecessor, President Barack Obama, had wiretapped his phones   during the 2016 election. ” ’   Last week, Schiff said Nunes’s actions had thrown ”great doubt”   on the committee’s ability to conduct a fair investigation. ’ ’   Numerous lawmakers have called for a select committee to carry   out the investigation, and the effort received bipartisan support   when Republican John McCain  in an interview on Wednesday. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tAfter much consideration I believe Chairman should recuse himself from involvement in   of Trump campaign & transition  ’ ”The House Intelligence Committee’s ranking. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’