’  ’ ”  becoming one of   President Donald Trump’s chief critics. ” ’ Cuban has, at the same time, teased journalists with rising   frequency about a potential 2020 bid for the   presidency. ’ ’ Business Insider recently discussed Cuban’’s newfound   political profile  —   his possible future presidential plans  —   in   an email exchange with Cuban, the owner of the NBA’’s Dallas   Mavericks and star of ABC’’s ”Shark Tank.” ’ ’ This interview was edited for clarity. ’ ’Allan Smith: What does your family think about   your expanding political presence? ’ ”Mark Cuban: We discussed how much of a threat I   believed Trump to be. We discussed why it was important to me to   get involved. That if I could have an impact and didn’t try, it   would have left me guessing forever. Even having tried and   failed, we all feel like we started on the right path and set a   foundation to have a platform and voice for the future. ” ’Smith: You gave a pretty good teasy quote to   CNBC at [South by Southwest] about a future run. Late last year,   you were saying it was a definite ”no” when asked [about a future   presidential bid.] What changed?  ’ ’Cuban: The obvious. What I do depends on how   things play out for the country. ’ ”Smith: How has becoming more vocal on politics   affected your businesses? And what do you have to say to critics   who think it’s been a negative for the Mavs? ” ’Cuban: Nothing one way or the other. For every   hate email there was a positive one as well. Remember, Clinton   won Dallas County. ’ ’  ’ ’Smith: IF you ever decided to run, what would   you do with your businesses? ’ ”Cuban: I have so many private business   investments that it would be impossible to sell them. I would put   them in a blind trust but make it clear I would still be   available on a limited basis for those companies. It wouldn’t be   fair to those companies if I just bailed on them. I would also be   very transparent  —   truly transparent about what I was doing. And   yes, I would make my [tax] returns available. ” ”Smith: Some people have compared your entry into   politics to Trump’s, who spent years building up a political   brand by giving his opinions on all kinds of issues on places   like CNN, Fox, MSNBC, and so on. Do you see any   similarities? ” ’Cuban: No. He has talked about running for   office for 30 years. I started talking about politics this year,   after avoiding them the last almost 20 years, because I thought   it was important to do so. ’ ”Smith: Any thoughts on the American Health   Care Act? [Editor’s note: Business Insider asked prior   to the bill’s failure, and the question was originally framed   around House Speaker Paul Ryan. ]” ’Cuban: All involved are ignoring the basic   question. And I think Sen. [Bernie] Sanders brought this up, is   healthcare a right or an opportunity in the United States? I   believe that, given we all face the exact same genetic and wrong   place, wrong time risks, coverage of most chronic and     illnesses or injuries should be a right. ’ ’Billionaire businessman Mark Cuban is. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’