’  ’ ”   The revelation that the chairman of the House Intelligence   Committee, Devin Nunes, was on White House grounds the day before   he briefed President Donald Trump on documents related to   surveillance of his transition team has fueled speculation that   the White House itself was Nunes’ source. ” ’   Nunes, who was a member of Trump’’s transition team, told Fox on   Tuesday afternoon that he would ”never reveal” the source of the   classified documents he obtained, not even to other members of   the House Intelligence Committee. ’ ’   Nunes on Monday said he had gone to the White House last week to   view the documents because Congress didn’’t have ”networked   access” to those reports. ’ ’   His spokesman later told Business Insider that Nunes had   been there to view the documents in a secure compartmented   information facility, or SCIF, to ”safeguard the proper chain of   custody and classification of these documents,” but did not   respond when asked why an executive branch source would not go   directly to Trump, instead of to Nunes, with documents they found   suspicious. ’ ’   Nunes has insisted that no one from the Trump administration knew   he was on White House grounds being briefed on the documents. But     experts, Republican and Democratic members of   Congress, and White House reporters have said it is highly   unlikely Nunes could have gone unnoticed on White House grounds. ’ ’   ”This is insane,” Juliette Kayyem, a CNN     analyst and former official at the Department of Homeland   Security, told Business Insider on Monday. ”You only go to the   White House to get briefed by the White House. It’’s not a meeting   point like a McDonald’’s off the turnpike.” ’ ’   Democratic Rep. Eric Swalwell, a member of the House Intelligence   Committee,  on Tuesday morning. The White   House ”is not an internet café,” Swalwell told MSNBC. ”You can’’t   just walk in and receive classified information.” ’ ”   Swalwell also wondered why Nunes couldn’t have viewed the   documents inside an SCIF at the Capitol after consulting with his   fellow committee members. ” ’   ”If this was done the proper way, they could have brought it   over, shared it with both parties of the committee,” he said,   referencing what he said was the bipartisan nature by which     investigations are typically conducted. ’ ’   If you’’re a member of Congress visiting the White House,   ”everyone in the building knows that you’’re there in the   building,” Swalwell said. ”This is what a   to a crime   looks like.” ’ ’   ”None of us, Democrat or Republican, on the Senate Intelligence   Committee still has any idea what [Nunes is] talking about,” Sen.   Mark Warner, the committee’’s ranking Democrat, told reporters on   Tuesday. ”I don’’t believe, frankly, the members, Republican or   Democrat, on the House committee do either.” ’ ’  ’ ’   ”To come onto these grounds at the White House, you must be   authorized,” Jeff Zeleny, CNN’’s senior White House correspondent,   said on Tuesday. ”Someone invited him in, cleared him in,   escorted him in. This White House has made the decision to not   say who that was.” ’ ”   Republican Sen. John McCain agreed that Nunes’ move was unusual. ” ’   ”I’’ve been around for quite a while, and I’’ve never heard of any   such thing,” he said on Tuesday morning on CBS. ’ ’   White House press secretary Sean Spicer said on Tuesday that   while he didn’’t know who Nunes spoke to, any conversations the   congressman had with a source  —   assuming that person had security   clearance  —   were ”100% legal” and ”completely appropriate.” ’ ’   The day after he went to the White House, Nunes announced in an    that the   president and his advisers may have had their communications   ”incidentally collected” by the intelligence community during the   transition period. ’ ’   Nunes said the reports he had seen had nothing to do with Russia,   which is why he felt comfortable briefing Trump on the matter   without first informing the ranking member of the House   Intelligence Committee, Democratic Rep. Adam Schiff. ’ ’   Schiff joined a growing chorus of Democrats  from the   committee’’s investigation into whether the Trump campaign   colluded with Russia, saying in a statement that ”none of the   committee members  —   Democrats or Republicans  —   has seen the   relevant documents, now almost a week later.” ’ ’   ”There was no legitimate justification for bringing that   information to the White House instead of the committee,” Schiff   added. ”That it also obtained at the White House makes this   departure all the more concerning.” ’ ’The revelation that the chairman of the House. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’