’  ’ ”   President Donald Trump’s daughter Ivanka will become an official   government employee, the White House announced Wednesday. ” ’   The move,  came   after an uproar over her getting a West Wing office without an   official government position. Her position will be one of an   unpaid adviser. ’ ’   ”We are pleased that Ivanka Trump has chosen to take this step in   her unprecedented role as First Daughter and in support of the   President,” the White House said in a statement. ’ ’   The statement added: ”Ivanka’’s service as an unpaid employee   furthers our commitment to ethics, transparency, and compliance   and affords her increased opportunities to lead initiatives   driving real policy benefits for the American public that would   not have been available to her previously.” ’ ’   Ivanka said in a statement that she had ”heard the concerns”   ethics experts had about her advising her father and vowed to   comply ”with all ethics rules and I will instead serve as an   unpaid employee in the White House Office, subject to all of the   same rules as other federal employees.” ’ ’’ ’   ”Throughout this process I have been working closely and in good   faith with the White House Counsel and my personal counsel to   address the unprecedented nature of my role,” she said. ’ ’   Ethics experts had previously said that her taking a West Wing   office and getting a security clearance without an official   position . ’ ’   ”There’’s quite a bit of evidence about tribalism in this   administration, where there’’s a very tight inner circle of family   loyalists  —   like Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner  —   who don’’t have   the type of experiences” typical of presidential advisers, said   Jon D. Michaels, a legal expert at the UCLA School of Law,   earlier this month. ’ ”   Kushner, Ivanka’s husband, is a senior adviser to Trump. ” ”   Ivanka’s lawyer, Jamie S. Gorelick,  that Ivanka’s status as a federal employee   would require her to comply with ethics standards. ” ’   ”She will file the financial disclosure forms required of federal   employees and be bound by the same ethics rules that she had   planned to comply with voluntarily,” she said. ’ ”President Donald Trump’s daughter Ivanka will. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’