’  ’ ’   Three White House officials helped provide intelligence   documents to the House Intelligence Committee chairman, Devin   Nunes, according to media reports on Thursday. ’ ’   Ezra   the senior director for intelligence at the   National Security Council, and Michael Ellis, a former House   Intelligence Committee staffer who now works as a lawyer on     issues at the White House Counsel’’s Office,   ”assisted in the disclosure of the intelligence reports,”    reported. ’ ’   The Washington Post reported on Thursday night that John   Eisenberg, a top National Security Council lawyer,  to the intelligence documents Nunes   obtained last week. ’ ’   H. R. McMaster, the national security adviser, tried to fire     earlier this month, but   appealed the   decision to White House advisers Jared Kushner and Stephen   Bannon, . President Donald Trump then decided   that   could stay on, Politico reported. ’ ”   Nunes last week  to travel to the White   House to brief Trump on classified   reports he   said showed that members of Trump’s transition team had been   swept up in government surveillance. ” ”   The rest of the intelligence committee learned of those   documents’ existence on March 22 when Nunes, who was on the   transition team, gave an impromptu press conference to announce   he would brief Trump on what he had found. ” ”   Nunes’ unusual decision to circumvent his committee and go   straight to the president fueled speculation that the White House   orchestrated the stunt to distract the press from the revelation   that the  whether Trump’s associates colluded   with Russia to interfere with the outcome of the 2016 election. ” ’   Nunes said the reports he had seen had nothing to do with Russia   and that was why he felt comfortable briefing Trump on the matter   without first informing the ranking Democrat on the House   Intelligence Committee, Rep. Adam Schiff. ’ ”   According to The Times, it’s true the reports did not have   anything to do with Russia, instead detailing the routine   surveillance of ambassadors and foreign officials who had   discussed Trump and his family during the transition. ” ’   Nunes’’ office said in an earlier statement that the California   congressman had been investigating ”the possible improper   unmasking of names of US citizens” before Trump made his   unfounded claim on Twitter in early March that Trump Tower had   been wiretapped by President Barack Obama. Nunes has said there   is no evidence that supports the president’’s claim. ’ ’  ’ ’   Nunes told Bloomberg earlier this week, however, that his source   for the documents was ”not a White House staffer and was an   intelligence official.” He said he had been reaching out to his   ”network of whistleblowers” over the past month to try to   determine what kind of surveillance, if any, Trump’’s transition   team had been under. ’ ’   It is unclear whether the White House officials gave Nunes the   documents directly or whether they facilitated his entry into a   secured compartmented information facility on White House   grounds. ’ ’ however, on the idea   that a whistleblower would meet with Nunes on White House grounds   to give him classified   documents. It is also   unclear why   and Ellis, if they knew the documents   existed, would not have brought them to the White House directly. ’ ’   Nunes’’ office said in a statement that he would not ”confirm or   deny speculation about his source’’s identity” or ”respond to   speculation from anonymous sources.” ’ ’   Nunes told Fox on Tuesday afternoon that he would ”never reveal”   the source of the classified documents he obtained, not even to   other members of the committee. ’ ’   White House press secretary Sean Spicer said during a press   briefing on Thursday that questions about the issue ”assume the   reporting is correct,” but he would neither confirm nor deny the   accuracy of the Times report. ’ ’   ”We’’re not as obsessed with the process as with the substance,”   Spicer said. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’   Spicer  he would not ”get into who [Nunes] met with   or why he met with them” on the White House grounds, but that any   conversations the congressman had with the sources  —   assuming   they had security clearance  —   were ”100% legal” and ”completely   appropriate.” ’ ’   Rep. Schiff, the committee’’s ranking Democrat, told reporters on   Thursday that the White House counsel has asked him to come   review the documents on incidental collection and see how the   names were unmasked by the intelligence community. He said he   would be ”happy” to view the documents, but that ”it will   ultimately be necessary to share these documents with the full   committee.” ’ ’  ’ ’Three White House officials helped provide. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’