’  ’ ’   A  on Wednesday devolved into yelling when   political commentator Angela Rye confronted   radio host   and former congressman Joe Walsh over a  he had posted on Tuesday, saying, ”We   LOWERED the bar for Obama. He was held to a lower standard cuz he   was black.” ’ ’   Walsh’’s tweet was in response to a comment Rye had made during   another appearance on CNN, in which she said that former   President Obama ”had to be the next best thing to Jesus,” an    to what she believed was   an impossibly high standard that Obama was held to. ’ ’   Walsh, after telling Rye that ”no politician can be compared to   Jesus” and that the bar was lowered for Obama, said, ”Obama’’s   blackness protected him. Liberal white guilt wouldn’’t allow   criticism. He was held to a lower bar.” ’ ”   When Walsh’s tweets were brought up during Wednesday’s panel, he   doubled down on his claims. ” ’   ”Never in our country’’s history have we had a president so, like,   coddled and pampered and protected by the media like Barack   Obama,” Walsh said. ”That’’s not a high standard . .. he was held   to a very low standard because the media so loved him.” ’ ’   When host Brooke Baldwin began to dispute Walsh’’s claim that the   media went easy on Obama, Rye interjected and said, ”Did you or   did you not say that you lowered the standard because he was   black?” ’ ’   ”Absolutely,” said Walsh. ’ ’   ”And that is what makes you a bigot, Joe,” Rye fired back. ’ ’   Baldwin also asked Walsh who he was referring to when he said   ”we” in his tweet, and Walsh said he was referencing the media   and white liberals. ’ ’   When Rye interrupted him again, Walsh said, ”Angela, are you   going to let me speak or not?” ’ ’   ”Are you going to say something while your mouth is moving?” Rye   said, before Baldwin cut in to allow Walsh to speak. ’ ’   ”We elected our first black president. That was a big deal, and   because of that, we lowered the standard. We did not criticize   him like all of our other presidents. We didn’’t vet him like all   of our other presidents. We were invested in that first black   president succeeding,” Walsh said, while Rye and Baldwin looked   shocked. ’ ’   Rye immediately pushed back against Walsh’’s claims, asking, ”I’’m   sorry, where are Donald Trump’’s tax returns? What are you talking   about?” ’ ’   ”Is Donald Trump’’s standard lower than Barack Obama’’s? Please   tell me you see that,” she added. ’ ’   When Walsh said that both Trump and Obama had no experience in   government before being elected president (Obama was a US senator   before becoming president) Rye said that Obama ”served in   Congress longer than you did, Joe, so you might not want to talk   about lowering the bar. You did one term [in Congress].” ’ ’ ’ ’A CNN panel on Wednesday devolved into yelling. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’