’  ’ ”   Former national security adviser Michael Flynn has reportedly   told the FBI and investigators looking into President Donald   Trump’s alleged campaign ties to Russia that he would submit   himself to be interviewed in exchange for immunity, according to   officials  on Thursday. ” ’   Robert Kelner, the attorney representing Flynn, reportedly made   the offer to the FBI and the intelligence committees in both the   House and Senate in order to avoid what he called ”unfair   prosecution,” however, so far, none of the officials have   accepted Flynn’’s terms, The Journal reported. ’ ”   One of the newspaper’s sources added that given the nature of   Flynn’s willingness to come forward with his testimony, he may be   in legal jeopardy for his short tenure as a top security official   in the Trump White House. ” ”   Kelner’s statement read in part: ” ’     ”General Flynn certainly has a story to tell, and he very much     wants to tell it, should the circumstances permit.   ’ ’     Out of respect for the Committees, we will not comment right     now on the details of discussions between counsel for General     Flynn and the House and Senate Intelligence Committees, other     than to confirm that those discussions have taken place.”   ’ ’   He continued: ’ ’     ”Notwithstanding his life of national service, the media are     awash with unfounded allegations, outrageous claims of treason,     and vicious innuendo directed against him. He is now the target     of unsubstantiated public demands by Members of Congress and     other political critics that he be criminally investigated. No     reasonable person, who has the benefit of advice from counsel,     would submit to questioning in such a highly politicized, witch     hunt environment without assurances against unfair     prosecution.”   ’ ’   Though offering to testify may have been one legal recourse for   Flynn, he asserted in an MSNBC interview last year that asking   for immunity in such circumstances ”means you have probably   committed a crime.” Flynn at the time was referring to the FBI’’s   investigation into   candidate Hillary Clinton’’s   private email server scandal. ’ ’  ’ ’   As a security adviser who handled matters of utmost sensitivity,   Flynn had access to   materials and was allegedly   involved in discussions regarding potential lifting of sanctions   on Russia that were initiated in the last weeks of President   Barack Obama’’s administration  —   sanctions that were imposed for   Russia’’s alleged  in ”malicious   activities.” ’ ”   Flynn  following reports that he   misled Vice President Mike Pence and other White House officials   about his phone conversations with Russian ambassador Sergey   Kislyak, during Trump’s transition to the Oval Office. ” ”   Flynn said he  saying he may have discussed Obama’s   sanctions against Russia with Kislyak before Trump was sworn in.   Prior to that revelation, Flynn adamantly contended that US   sanctions never came up during the conversations. ” ’   ”Unfortunately, because of the fast pace of events, I   inadvertently briefed the vice   and others with   incomplete information regarding my phone calls with the Russian   ambassador,” Flynn wrote in his resignation letter. ”I have   sincerely apologized to the president and vice president, and   they have accepted my apology.” ’ ’Former national security adviser Michael Flynn. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’