’  ’ ’   In a   room overlooking a smattering of palm trees,   power lines, and    bungalows, a      recovering alcoholic rolls a joint. ’ ”   Frank, whose name has been changed for this story, doesn’t   particularly like the feeling he gets from smoking cannabis, but   he doesn’t hate it either. And he admits it helps him sleep. ” ”   High Sobriety, the southern California rehab center where Frank   is staying, incorporates cannabis into its treatment regimen for   people with drug and alcohol addiction. Frank hasn’t touched   scotch, his former drink of choice  —   or any other alcoholic   beverage, for that matter  —   in 30 days. ” ”   A month ago, he was living alone and drinking around the clock,   despite repeated warnings from his physicians about negative   interactions between alcohol and the medications he takes for   high blood pressure and other   health issues. During a   bender over the holidays, Frank knocked over the carriage holding   his daughter’s   old baby. Concerned, his family took him   to Alcoholics Anonymous. Nothing stuck, and Frank’s health   continued to decline. ” ”   So one day last year, his daughter called up Joe Schrank, High   Sobriety’s founder, and asked if he could help. ” ’  ’ ’   The idea behind High Sobriety is simple: Help addicts stop   abusing the substances that are causing them the most harm, and   use cannabis as a tool to do so. ’ ’   ”Our retention rates are so much better with being able to give   them something,” Schrank, a trained social worker who has spent   the last 15 years working with addicts, tells Business Insider.   ”The truth is a lot of these people are deep deep deep into the   weeds with drug and alcohol use and to think there’’s a light   switch and they can just turn it off. ..I mean you’’re dealing with   a different person when you talk about cessation of drug use.” ’ ”   Schrank’s unconventional approach has put him at odds with many   people in the recovery community. But his strategy is part of a   new and growing movement that aims to treat addiction like any   other mental illness  —   with science. The approaches coming out of   this movement share a common thread: the belief that we should   stop treating addiction as a moral issue and start treating it as   a medical one. ” ’   Schrank disapproves of the way AA and other similar programs   portray drinking and using drugs as moral problems. That approach   is out of touch with science, he says. ’ ’   ”I never think of drug use as any kind of moral thing. Actually,   I like drug use, although it didn’’t really work out for me,”   Schrank says. ’ ’   Maia Szalavitz, a neuroscience journalist and the author of    agrees. ’ ’   ”This stuff that emphasizes this morality, we don’’t have anything   else like that in medicine,” Szalavitz, a former heroin addict   and AA member, says. ”And the   thing talking about    that’’s not exactly helpful for someone who   already has a lot of  .” ’ ’  ’ ’   Like Schrank, Szalavitz believes that for many addicts, giving up   their drug of choice is necessary for recovery, but giving up all   drugs may not be. ’ ’   ”This whole idea that total abstinence is the only route to   recovery has been incredibly damaging to the addiction field,”   she says. ’ ’   Instead, a better approach might be to identify addicts’’ problem   drug  —   which  ”that one   partner that you long for but if you get them you’’ll go crazy”  —     and remove that substance. ’ ”   This idea falls in line with decades of research in a field   called harm reduction, which accepts that drug use is a part of   daily life. Instead of trying to get people to give drugs up   altogether, it aims to . This, Szalavitz   believes, could save the lives of the many people who have   struggled with AA’s hardline approach. ” ’   ”Addiction is compulsive behavior despite negative consequences.   If you’’re using a substance responsibly and not having negative   consequences, why should anyone care? ,” she says. ’ ’   Research seems to suggest that partial abstinence may help   some people who’’ve struggled with substances like alcohol.    the section director for mental health policy at   Stanford’’s department of psychiatry, published a paper in a   2003 that reviewed an approach called ”Moderation   Management.” He concluded that making the method   an option for people with drinking problems ”seems on   balance a benefit to public health.” ’ ”   Six years ago, Schrank’s friend Gregory Giraldo was found   unconscious in a New Jersey hotel room after overdosing on   cocaine and Valium. He passed away shortly after. ” ’   Schrank, who’’s now 48, says that if he could see Greg today and   offer him cannabis instead of the drugs he died taking, there’’d   be no question about it. ”I’’d say, ’’Smoke up there, Gregory, go   ahead. ’’” ’ ”   Giraldo, a comedian, had been to rehab and tried the     route several times. But the 12 steps didn’t save   him. Schrank thinks his new program might have. ” ’  ’ ’   ”He was a brilliant dude,” Schrank says. ”Maybe he wouldn’’t have   been as functional as an   person, I don’’t know. But   when I hear people tell others that [ ] is 100% of   the pie  —   they’’re wrong.” ’ ’   Schrank has also gone through AA. He got sober that way 20 years   ago and hasn’’t touched a drink or a drug  —   even cannabis  —   since.   (Ironically, he doesn’’t like the smell of pot.) While he says AA   helped him ”immensely in a lot of ways,” Schrank takes issue with   the idea that addicts are only given two choices: complete   abstinence or nothing. ’ ’   ”To say there’’s only one option and to present people with only   one option is wrong,” Schrank says. ”It’’s like saying I have a   moral objection to insulin so I’’m just not going to take it. It’’s   malpractice if you ask me.” ’ ”   Schrank and other critics of AA’s methodology cite its dismal   success rates as one of many reasons that new approaches are   necessary. ” ’   ”About one of every 15 people who enter these programs is able to   become and stay sober,” Dr. Lance Dodes, a retired professor of   psychiatry at Harvard Medical School wrote in his   2014   book,  A large 2006 review of 8   trials involving more than 3, 400 people also    ”no experimental studies unequivocally demonstrated the   effectiveness of AA . .. for reducing alcohol dependence or   problems.” ’ ’     approaches are simply untenable for people   like Frank, Schrank says. ”The truth is he’’s 73 years old, he’’s   alone, and the idea that we’’re gonna make him go to AA and stop   drinking, it’’s fantasy  —   that’’s not compassion.” ’ ’   Still, there is some evidence that AA can help some people. A   study of more than 400 people  ”some of the association between treatment and       outcomes appears to be due to participation in   AA.” A   old recovering alcoholic who’’s been   sober for eight years put it to me this way, ”If it wasn’’t   for the rooms [of AA] I’’d be lying in a gutter somewhere. That’’s   my reality.” ’ ”   There simply aren’t many studies on whether cannabis works for   those struggling with addictions. ” ’   The research that exists suggests that cannabis may be a   helpful tool in  It also could help .   And it might help some addicts stop using  although as a large   by the National Academy of Sciences noted that ”only   one randomized trial assessing the role of cannabis in reducing   the use of addictive substances” exists. ’ ’  ’ ”   In addition to being few and far between, each of these studies   suffered from at least one research error. In some cases, the   sample was too small to extrapolate; in other cases the data was   based only on surveys, which can’t provide scientific answers. In   other cases, people in the study knew which drug they were   taking, which might have contaminated the findings. ” ’   Clearly, more research is needed. ’ ’   ”I think ideally you’’d study it before you just go and do it,”   Szalavitz says, adding, ”I think it’’s an intriguing idea that we   need more research on.” ’ ’   And of course, many researchers simply say the idea of using   cannabis to treat addiction is absurd. ’ ’   ”Marijuana has exactly no role in the treatment of any mental   illness, especially   disorders,” Thomas McLellan,   who founded the nonprofit    and served briefly as deputy drug czar under the Obama   administration, . ’ ’   All of these issues put Schrank in a tough spot. ’ ’   ”It’’s not the easiest place. AA people hate me, rehab people hate   me,” he says. ”I’’m ok with that.” ’ ’In a   room overlooking a smattering. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’