’  ’ ’   Democratic Rep. Adam Schiff of California, the ranking member on   the House Intelligence Committee released a    Friday after visiting the White House to view intelligence   documents shared with his Republican counterpart a week ago. ’ ’   The classified information shared with House Intelligence   chairman Devin Nunes sparked an uproar when Nunes then briefed   President Donald Trump on the documents and left his colleagues   on the committee out of the loop. ’ ’   Schiff on Friday slammed the White House’’s handling of the   information, saying ”If the White House had any concern over   these materials, they should have been shared with the full   committees in the first place as a part of our ordinary oversight   responsibilities.” ’ ’   Schiff also called on the White House to explain why it initially   shared the documents with only Nunes, rather than all of the   interested parties. ’ ”   Nunes’ visit to the White House  into alleged   contacts between Trump associates and Russia during the election.   Nunes had asserted that the information suggested members of the   Trump transition may have been caught up in routine surveillance   operations after the election. ” ’’ ’   Trump had taken that revelation as vindication for his debunked   claim that former President Barack Obama had Trump wiretapped   during the transition. ’ ’   In viewing what Schiff said where the same documents shared with   Nunes, Schiff said on Friday: ”Nothing I could see today   warranted a departure from the normal review procedures.” Schiff   called for the full contents of the documents to be shared with   all members of both the House and Senate Intelligence Committees. ’ ’     “Today my staff director and I reviewed materials at the White     House. It was represented to me that these are precisely the     same materials that were provided to the Chairman over a week     ago. While I cannot discuss the content of the documents, if     the White House had any concern over these materials, they     should have been shared with the full committees in the first     place as a part of our ordinary oversight responsibilities.   ’ ’     Nothing I could see today warranted a departure from the normal     review procedures, and these materials should now be provided     to the full membership of both committees. The White House has     yet to explain why senior White House staff apparently shared     these materials with but one member of either committee, only     for their contents to be briefed back to the White House. ”   ’ ’Democratic Rep. Adam Schiff of California, the. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’