’  ’ ’   Former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn  before the House and   Senate intelligence committees in exchange for immunity, as The   Wall Street Journal first reported Thursday. ’ ”   The committees are investigating Russia’s interference in last   year’s US election, and both have asked to interview members of   President Donald Trump’s inner circle who may have relevant   information about whether any collusion occurred between the   Trump campaign and the Kremlin. ” ”   Flynn’s potential ties to Russia have been of particular interest   to the committees because of his conversations with Russia’s   ambassador to the US, Sergey Kislyak, that eventually led to his   ouster. ” ’   Flynn’’s lawyer released a statement saying ”discussions between   counsel for General Flynn and the House and Senate intelligence   committees” about possible immunity had been ongoing, but some   congressional officials have already disputed that claim. ’ ’   The House Intelligence Committee ”had a preliminary conversation   with Michael Flynn’’s lawyer about arranging for Flynn to speak to   the committee,” Jack Langer, a spokesman for the committee’’s   chairman, Rep. Devin Nunes, said in a statement. ”The discussions   did not include immunity or other possible conditions for his   appearance.” ’ ’   The Senate Intelligence Committee has apparently already turned   down Flynn’’s request: Immunity is ”not on the table” at the   moment, a senior congressional official . ’ ’   Perhaps more significant, Flynn has also made his offer to the   Department of Justice, The Journal and NBC have reported.   Ultimately, analysts have said, only the DOJ  —   which oversees the   FBI  —   would be able to give Flynn real immunity should it   determine that his information is both valuable and inaccessible   by other means or sources. ’ ’   ”Keep in mind Congress usually offers ’’use immunity’’ (to not use   statement) and not immunity from prosecution,” Susan Hennessey, a   former National Security Agency lawyer, . ’ ”   Flynn’s push for immunity has suggested to some that he thinks he   might have information relevant to the broader investigation,   which could take the focus off himself. ” ’   Juliette Kayyem, a CNN   analyst who lectures at   Harvard’’s Kennedy School, said that while ”we don’’t know what   Flynn offered,” his offer alone was ”significant” and made him   the first in Trump’’s ”inner circle to turn his back on them.” ’ ’   The House committee’’s ranking Democrat, Rep. Adam Schiff, said in   a statement Friday that while the committee would discuss the   matter with its Senate counterpart, it remained ”deeply mindful   of the interests of the Department of Justice.” ’ ’   So far, Flynn’’s public confirmation that he’’s seeking immunity   suggests that the FBI has successfully backed him into a corner,   even without the ”story” his lawyer has said Flynn is eager to   tell. ’ ’   Glenn Carle, a former CIA operative who worked closely with the   FBI during his time as an intelligence officer, said the ”bureau   does nobody any favors.” ’ ’   ”It’’s conceivable that Flynn is innocent,” Carle said. ”But the   FBI is extremely powerful, and has sources everywhere. So   assuming Flynn is asking for immunity because he thinks he did   something wrong, and wants to save his own ass, the bureau will   probably say, ’’Thanks, but no  —   why should we do you a favor if   we don’’t even need your testimony? ’’” ’ ’  ’ ’   Alex Whiting, a Harvard Law School professor,  that Flynn’’s ”ploy feels   desperate” and indicated that he ”may not have much to offer.” ’ ’   ”Flynn’’s lawyer may have concluded that at a minimum the public   offer would help change the atmospherics around his client, which   could help him at a future stage,” Whiting wrote. ’ ’   But ”the very fact that Flynn’s lawyer is making a play for   immunity at this stage suggests that he has some fear that his   client faces real criminal exposure,” he added. ’ ’   Questions about whether Flynn ran afoul of the law by accepting   payments from foreign governments, while he still had US security   clearance, have been piling up in recent weeks as reports   continue to surface about his work for both Russia and Turkey  —     the extent of which, in some cases, he failed to immediately   disclose to the DOJ. ’ ”   Flynn’s lobbying firm, Flynn Intel Group, lobbied on behalf of a   Turkish businessman with ties to the Turkish government   throughout the latter half of 2016. But Flynn  with the   Department of Justice only late last month. ” ”   Flynn was also paid $33, 000 to speak at a gala in Moscow honoring   Russia’s   news agency, Russia Today, in December   2015. Top Democratic lawmakers   that the Defense Department review   whether that speaking engagement violated the emoluments clause   of the US Constitution. Flynn sat next to Russian President   Vladimir Putin at the gala dinner. ” ’  ’ ”   Earlier that year, Russia’s top cybersecurity company, Kaspersky,   and the Russian charter cargo airline   Airlines    for different speaking   engagements. ” ’   His questionable ties to Russia were not limited to the period   after his departure from the agency.  on Friday morning that   the FBI and the CIA were examining his contact in 2014 with a     national, Svetlana Lokhova, who ”has claimed to   have unique access” to the GRU, Russia’s military spy agency. ’ ’   Flynn did not disclose his initial conversation with her, or the   email exchanges that followed, to the US government, according to   The Guardian. ’ ’   Flynn’’s spokesman, Price Floyd, called the story ”false” in a   statement and said Flynn’’s contact with Lokhova was ”incidental.” ’ ”   But the Justice Department has clearly taken notice. A joint   investigation among the FBI, the CIA, the NSA, and the Treasury   Department into Flynn’s communications with Kislyak are what   ultimately led to his ouster. And the DOJ’s former No. 2  —   Deputy   Attorney General Sally Yates  —   reportedly warned the White House   in January that Flynn could be vulnerable to Russian blackmail. ” ’   ”The wheels of bureaucracy have clearly started to turn,” said   Carle, the former CIA officer. ”And when they do, they tend to   grind up anyone in their path.” ’ ’Former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’