’  ’ ’   Billionaire businessman Mark Cuban took to Twitter on Saturday to   outline his theory on the   controversy   surrounding President Donald Trump and his administration. ’ ’   Cuban, the owner of the NBA’’s Dallas Mavericks and star of   ABC’’s ”Shark Tank,” came to the conclusion that there is ”no   chance this is a [Trump] led conspiracy.” Cuban argued that Trump   is not savvy enough to ”pull off” such a plot. ’ ’   Cuban . ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’t1) Here is my take on Trump and Russia’t’t’ ’ ’t’t’t2) Russians have made him a lot of money buying condos and investing in his bldgs and hosting his beauty pageant. That makes them his friends’t’t’ ” ’t’t’t3) He ignored their backgrounds. But that’s not unusual.  Starbucks takes anyone’s money and so do most businesses including mine. ’t’t” ’ ’t’t’t4) He spoke favorably about Putin to get his approval for Russians to get $ out of Russia and into Trump deals.  He saw it as easy money’t’t’ ” ’t’t’t5) When Manafort was recommended, he didn’t vett him. He saw it as a win win. Win the election or open the door for more Russian business’t’t” ’ ’t’t’t6) As people with Russian connects came into the campaign he had no clue that those connections were possibly being influenced by Russia’t’t’ ’ ’t’t’t7) His lean campaign took direction from people he trusted and he followed those directions. He had no clue where the Russians fit’t’t’ ’ ’t’t’t8) when Manafort got ”hot” he got rid of him but the campaign approach had been established. Bannon took it to the next level FTW’t’t’ ” ’t’t’t9) No chance this is a DJT led conspiracy. He isn’t detail oriented, organized or big picture enough to pull off any time of conspiracy’t’t” ’ ’t’t’t10) I think Putin recognized trumps greed and took advantage by back channeling coordinated misinformation in an attempt to influence voters’t’t’ ’ ’t’t’t11) Trump had no idea this was happening. He was doing what he was told to do. Stick to the script and read what was written for him’t’t’ ” ’t’t’t12) Because he didn’t recognize or understand as it was happening he has no idea what to do now or how to respond. So he turns to Fox News’t’t” ” ’t’t’t13) That’s what I think happened. Feel free to agree or disagree’t’t” ’   Earlier Saturday, Trump  hanging over his White House, specifically   targeting NBC’’s Chuck Todd, host of ”Meet the Press.” ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tWhen will Sleepy Eyes Chuck Todd and  start talking about the Obama SURVEILLANCE SCANDAL and stop with the Fake   story? ’t’t’ ’ ’t’t’tIt is the same Fake News Media that said there is ”no path to victory for Trump” that is now pushing the phony Russia story. A total scam! ’t’t’ ’Billionaire businessman Mark Cuban took to. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’