’The White House released a broad set of financial disclosures that showed the assets for as many as 180 senior officials on Friday evening.’ ’The information outlines the sizable wealth of many members of the Trump administration which closes in on a cumulative $12 billion, .’ ’Officials including White House chief strategist Steve Bannon, and advisers Jared Kushner and Reince Priebus listed assets they held at the time they began working for the government, a little more than two months ago. Since then, staffers may have divested from some of those assets, resigned from prior jobs, or recused themselves from holdings that may potentially create conflicts of interest.’ ”Here’s a look at what the Trump administration’s financial disclosures show, based on data gathered at the time they entered public service.” ’Steve Bannon, the White House chief strategist and perhaps its most controversial figure, appeared to be among the wealthiest in the Trump administration.’ ”According to The New York Times, Bannon’s biggest asset is a private consulting business that received income from multiple investments valued between $5 million and $25 million.” ”Bannon’s disclosures also list:” ’Source: ’ ’’ ’’ ”Priebus’ disclosures also listed:” ’Source:  ’ ’ ’ ”Jared Kushner, Trump’s i, lists two main sources of income in his financial disclosure.” ’According to the documents, Kushner held:’ ’’ ’Source: ’ ”Ivanka Trump, the president’s eldest daughter and newly appointed assistant, placed her   brand into the Ivanka M. Trump Business Trust, which is valued at more than $50 million.” ”Given her new position at the White House, Ivanka’s report wasn’t available because   officials had up to 30 days after taking office to file their financial disclosures.” ”Her information, gleaned from husband Jared Kushner’s report, included earnings between $1 million and $5 million from her ownership stake in Trump International Hotel, located in Washington  —   which is estimated to be worth between $5 million and $25 million.” ’Source:  ’ ”White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer generated the lion’s share of his income during his time as the chief ” ’’ ’Source: ’ ’ ’ ’Donald McGahn is a top Trump administration lawyer. He listed multiple employment and retirement assets, a handful of which were valued at between $100, 000 and $250, 000 each.’ ’Additionally, McGahn listed:’ ’Source: ’ ”Gary Cohn, the National Economic Council’s chairman and former president of Goldman Sachs Group, was estimated to have earned $1. 8 million as Goldman Sachs’ CEO.” ’Though that figure may already dwarf the amounts made from other staffers, he also disclosed:’ ’An attorney for the White House said on Friday that though Cohn had relinquished all of his positions, he was still in the process of divesting some assets  —   which include hundreds of brokerage accounts, hedge funds, and partnerships.’ ’Source: ’ ’Kellyanne Conway, counselor to the president, reportedly has a   portfolio.’ ”She also earned more than $800, 000 in business income prior to joining Trump’s campaign.” ’Her disclosures also included:’ ’Source: ’ ’The White House released a broad set of. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’