’  ’ ’   You probably didn’’t know about ”Ghost in the Shell” until   the Scarlett Johansson   adaptation, out Friday, came   around. That movie has now been clouded by the controversy   surrounding alleged ”whitewashing” of what was originally a   Japanese character  —   a necessary,  conversation about the   story’’s origins and how Hollywood operates. But if nothing else,   hopefully  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’ ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’ ’ ’   At the end of ”Ghost in the Shell,” in an unsettling twist   that speaks to the deeper philosophical meaning of the movie,   Major actually merges with her ostensible enemy, the Puppet   Master, who is not chained to a body. The old Major does not   exist, and neither does the Puppet Master, but rather they’’ve   created a new being, who’’s free to roam around what Major calls   ”the net,” which is ”vast and infinite.” ’ ’   You know what else is vast and infinitie? The Matrix, where human   beings live out programmed lives while their physical bodies   atrophy in pods. As in ”Ghost in the Shell,” their memories have   been implanted. The question of what is ”real” and what is   virtual  —   and whether the difference even matters  —   is at the   heart of both movies. ’ ’ ’ ’   ”Ghost and the Shell” and ”The Matrix” became central to what was   known as ”cyberpunk”   in the 1990s. It’’s often remembered   for its aesthetics  —   the dark trench coats, that mix of grimy   urban sprawl with futuristic computer enhancement  —   but cyberpunk   was also a movement that, at the end of the millennium,   challenged people to think about how technology would   fundamentally change what it means to be human.  ’ ’   Steven Spielberg’’s DreamWorks  to ”Ghost in the   Shell” nine years ago, and it’’s not hard to see why. Spielberg’’s   2001 movie ”A. I.” resembles ”Ghost in the Shell” not only in its   cyberpunk atmosphere, but also in its own wrenching   philosophical conundrum: If you build a ”robot who can   love,” is his love any different from a human’’s? Is his love   ”real”? ’ ’   Of course, ”Ghost in the Shell” hardly invented these questions.   They’’ve vexed people as long as technology itself.   But ”Ex Machina”   imagines the power (and possible destruction) of a robot who can   think for herself  —   and dress up just as if she were a real   woman. (Sound familiar?) ’ ’  ’ ’   The new ”Ghost in the Shell,” while full of thrilling cyperpunk   action and visual detail, sadly takes only small stabs at the   deeper philosophy of the franchise. In the most provocative   scene, Major hires a female prostitute simply so she can feel the   woman’’s    body, what it’’s like to be ”fully   human.” When asked what she is, Major says, ”I don’’t know.”   You can feel Scarlett Johansson doing everything to convey the   character’’s anguished searching for herself, how she lives   between cyborg and organic worlds. But by the end, the movie cops   out with a corny and  backstory reveal that, as  is more ”Bourne” than   cyberpunk. ’ ’   Johansson’’s ”Ghost in the Shell” may not live up to its source   material, but the ”vast and infinite net” imagined by the   groundbreaking anime movie is still out there, haunting our   dreams of the future. ’ ’You probably didn’’t know about ”Ghost in. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’