’  ’ ”   Mike Gamson is one of LinkedIn’s top executives. ” ”   As the SVP of Global Solutions, Gamson is in charge of the global   talent, marketing, sales, and learning teams, making him   responsible for about half of LinkedIn’s roughly 10, 000   employees. He works closely with CEO Jeff Weiner. ” ’   Gamson told Business Insider that he follows Weiner’’s   philosophy of ”compassionate leadership” very closely, but his   first meeting with Weiner, he didn’’t know what to expect. ’ ’   It was the end of 2008, and LinkedIn founder and chairman Reid   Hoffman had replaced his chief executive Dan Nye with   Weiner, who had been an EVP at Yahoo. Nye was a close friend,   mentor, and former boss to Gamson, and had recruited him to the   professional social network company a year earlier. ’ ’   On top of that, Gamson was dealing with the stress of a new   baby at home coupled with constant   travel. ”So when   I flew in to meet Jeff, it was actually a pretty emotional time   for me,” Gamson told Business Insider. ’ ”   When he walked into Weiner’s office, he said, it still felt like   it was Nye’s. He didn’t know how their conversation would play   out. ” ’   After a warm greeting, Weiner asked him what type of leader he   aspired to be.  ’ ’   ”I said, ’’An empathetic leader,’’” Gamson said. ”I’’d been working   on empathy. And he said, ’’Why empathy and not compassion? ’’”   Gamson admitted to Weiner he didn’’t know the nuances of the   definitions enough to give an adequate answer. ’ ”   That’s when Weiner told a parable told by the Dalai Lama.   While that may sound like a stereotypical Silicon Valley CEO   move, the ensuing   conversation fundamentally changed the   way Gamson would go on to manage. ” ’  ’ ”   The parable: A man is lying on the side of a road, crushed by a   boulder. An empathetic person passes by. This person feels the   man’s suffering so intimately they are shaken and unable to find   a way to help. A compassionate person passes by. This person   understands the man’s pain and is driven to help, but   is able to remain centered within themselves, allowing them   to devise a plan to remove the boulder and get the man help. ” ”   The lesson: Empathy is feeling someone’s state as if it were your   own, manifested emotionally; compassion is understanding   someone’s state as if it were your own, but with a layer of   detachment. It is better to go through the world as a   compassionate person, able to confront the plights of others   without being crippled by their weight. And it is better to lead   with compassion, not empathy. ” ’   ”If you can picture that in a very practical sense as a manager,   there’’s constantly things that happen that are very emotionally   charged,” Gamson said. ”Where someone can come to you not   centered about whatever is going on in their life, an empathetic   leader will resonate with that person and two emotionally charged   people are less likely to resolve something than someone who can   understand the context, ask the question, look at the world   through their eyes, and then stay centered to be helpful.” ’ ”   And this isn’t all about feelings, Gamson explained  —   it’s also   just good business. He said he saw Weiner’s approach in action   when they worked together on the biggest deal the company had   seen to date, early in Weiner’s tenure. The two executives met to   discuss how they should negotiate the deal, and Gamson asked   how they could get the most out of it. ” ’   ”And when I was walking Jeff through the deal mechanics, he   corrected me and he said, ’’Well, let’’s put ourselves in their   shoes, let’’s figure out the way we can make this the best deal   for both of us,’’” Gamson said. ”Because there’’s going to be no   long term health in a relationship unless value is distributed   equally.” His point was that long term value should not be   sacrificed for short term gain, and that the way to long term   value was through building a relationship with the client, and   the way to that was through compassion, not empathy (or enmity,   for that matter). Gamson would not reveal the client’’s name but   noted the relationship is healthy and still exists. ’ ”   That day he met Weiner  —   the day he initially approached uneasily    —   changed Gamson’s career. ” ’   After he left the meeting, ”I realized that I had gotten so lucky   to find another person in my life from whom I could learn,   because I want to be an apprentice forever,” he said. ”Most of my   life is organized around trying to find people around whom I   could learn new lessons. And I realized I just got really lucky   because Jeff had a totally different set of lessons to teach.” ’ ”Mike Gamson is one of LinkedIn’s top executives. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’