SEOUL, South Korea  —   The shadowy woman at the center of President Park  ’s worst political scandal apologized on Sunday for her “wrongdoings. ” Hours later, Ms. Park fired her chief of staff and seven other presidential aides in an effort to regain public trust, a day after thousands of South Koreans took to the streets to call for her removal from office. Choi   a longtime associate widely seen here as a shamanlike adviser to Ms. Park, returned to South Korea on Sunday from Europe, where she had been in hiding since the scandal erupted weeks ago. Ms. Choi’s lawyer, Lee   said she would present herself to prosecutors for questioning on her murky ties with Ms. Park, which are at the heart of the president’s troubles. “She apologizes deeply for causing the people humiliation and despair,” Mr. Lee said of Ms. Choi at a news conference. Mr. Lee said Ms. Choi also apologized for “her wrongdoings,” but he did not elaborate. Ms. Park has been accused of letting Ms. Choi, a private citizen with no security clearance or background in policy making, advise her on crucial state affairs. Ms. Choi, 60, has also been accused of using her influence with Ms. Park to plant her associates in the government, including the presidential office, and to coerce big businesses to donate millions of dollars each to the two foundations she controls. As new details of Ms. Choi’s accused manipulation of state affairs have surfaced, Ms. Park’s approval ratings have plunged to record lows. She apologized last week for letting Ms. Choi edit some of her most important speeches. On Sunday, Ms. Park carried out a major reshuffling of her presidential staff in recognition of “the graveness of the current situation,” her office said. Those dismissed included Ahn   the senior presidential secretary for policy coordination, who was accused of collaborating with Ms. Choi in pressuring businesses to donate to her foundations. Also fired were three   aides known as the three gatekeepers for their purported role in controlling whom Ms. Park met with and what information reached her. All three are considered close to Ms. Choi. Despite the reshuffling, Ms. Park did not replace her aides on foreign policy and national security. Pressure has been mounting on her to overhaul her leadership style and government to regain some of her lost authority. On Sunday, her governing Saenuri Party asked her to form a new cabinet with opposition parties. Ms. Park’s plummeting political fortunes were dramatized on Saturday when prosecutors raided the homes of a few presidential aides who are believed to be under Ms. Choi’s sway and are accused of collaborating in  . Prosecutors also appeared at the Blue House, Ms. Park’s presidential office and residence in Seoul, the capital, demanding that they be allowed to search aides’ offices there for criminal evidence. The Blue House refused them entry, but the prosecutors returned on Sunday, pressing the same demand  —   a highly unusual move for prosecutors, who have long been accused of being servile political tools of the sitting president. Also on Saturday, at a rally in downtown Seoul, thousands marched on the Blue House to chants of “Down with Park  !” and “Impeach Park  !” Shoving matches erupted when riot police officers blocked the marchers. Organizers said 30, 000 people had attended the demonstration, while the police estimated the crowd at 12, 000. South Koreans are proud of the global economic powerhouse they built from the ruins of the   Korean War and the democracy they achieved after decades of brutal rule by military dictators. Those dictators included Ms. Park’s father, Park   who led the country from 1961 until his assassination in 1979. Ms. Park’s scandal is seen as particularly inflammatory because it hurts that pride. On Saturday, many demonstrators said they felt ashamed to be South Korean. Speaking to the crowd, Lee   the mayor of Seongnam, a city just south of Seoul, said the president had humiliated the people by relying on a “shamanlike figure” to handle important state affairs, referring to Ms. Choi. “We may be weak, we may be poor, but we have not lost our pride yet,” Mayor Lee said to cheers from the crowd. “President Park has lost her authority as president, and she must step down. ” Little had been known about Ms. Choi, except that she is the daughter of a minor religious cult leader and befriended Ms. Park in the 1970s, when Ms. Park’s father was still in power. Ms. Choi’s father, Choi   who died in 1994 at the age of 82, had been accused of manipulating Ms. Park, though Ms. Park has defended him as a patriot and a mentor. Some critics believe that Ms. Choi has inherited her father’s   role in Ms. Park’s life. Major political parties have so far refrained from calling for Ms. Park to step down. Her single   term ends in February 2018. All recent South Korean presidents have ended their terms in ignominy, disgraced by scandals that often implicate their children as well. Many South Koreans had hoped that Ms. Park, the country’s first female president, who is unmarried and has no children, would be an exception.