’  ’ ”   Kansas lawmakers on Monday failed to override Republican Gov. Sam   Brownback’s veto of a bill that would have expanded Medicaid   under the Affordable Care Act. ” ”   The Kansas House voted   to override Brownback’s veto, three   votes short of the necessary majority needed. ” ’   Brownback vetoed a bill last week that proposed expanding   Medicaid, the   health program that provides   insurance primarily to  people with disabilities, and   seniors with low incomes. ’ ’   ”I am vetoing this expansion of Obamacare because it fails to   serve the truly vulnerable before the   lacks work   requirements to help   Kansans escape poverty, and   burdens the state budget with unrestrainable entitlement costs,”   Brownback . ’ ’   Lawmakers have been trying to expand the program  that opens   eligibility up to any adult living under 138% of the federal   poverty level  —   an income of  in 2016. ’ ’’ ’     states, including the District of Columbia,  leading to more than 11 million   people nationwide gaining coverage. ’ ’   The Kansas House passed the bill in February by the same margin   of   and the Senate passed it on Tuesday by a margin of    . ’ ”   In the   to the vote on the veto override, many of the   bill’s supporters acknowledged the tall order. ” ’   Sen. John Doll, a moderate Republican elected in 2016 amidst a   public backlash against Brownback’’s conservative policies, told   Business Insider on Thursday that garnering the two votes needed   to override in the Senate would be ”really difficult.” ’ ’   ”I hope we are able to. I just don’t see it,” Doll said. ’ ’   Barbara Bollier, a   senator representing several Kansas   City suburbs and a retired physician, expressed hope that   overwhelming public support for the bill could push some senators   and representatives from no to yes. ’ ’   A public opinion poll conducted by the American Cancer Society in   January .   Several other polls from recent months . Still, it has been hampered,   its supporters say, by its association with the Affordable Care   Act. ’ ’   A major supporter of the bill, Doll said that even if an override   failed, public support would ensure that Medicaid expansion will   be raised by lawmakers again, though probably not until the next   legislative session. ’ ’   ”It will come before the legislature again and again until it   becomes law. Or until [the ACA] is repealed in Washington,” Doll   said. ’ ”   A major obstacle to the bill’s passage is its association with   the ACA, according to Doll. ” ’   ”Some of us can’t get past the origination of the law,” Doll   said. ”We’ve got to look past parties and look at policies. We   need a big lesson that at every level of government, but   especially state and federal. We need to look at what’s good for   the people.” ’ ’   In his veto memo, Brownback said that an increase in federal   Medicaid funding would result in increased funding to abortion   providers such as Planned Parenthood and said that because Kansas   is ”” he could not support the bill. ’ ’   Bollier called Brownback’’s reasoning ”disingenuous” and a ”weak   excuse,” saying that amendments to the Medicaid expansion bill   addressing funding to abortion providers were introduced in both   chambers and were voted down because voters did not support the   measures. ’ ’   ”The people have spoken. [Planned Parenthood is] not their   issue,” said Bollier. ”We’’re a far cry from listening to the   people right now.” ’ ’   Bollier also suggested that Brownback’’s objection to the bill’’s   lack of work requirements for Medicaid recipients was a nonissue   because the population gaining coverage is ”the working poor.” ’ ’Kansas lawmakers on Monday failed to override. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’