’  ’ ”     has reportedly pulled its ads from The O’Reilly   Factor’s time slot following  against Fox   News’ ratings king. ” ’   ”We had advertising running on The O’’Reilly Factor (we run on   most major cable news shows) and it has been reassigned in the   midst of this controversy,” a   spokesperson . ’ ’   The automaker did not immediately respond to a request for   comment. ’ ’   The  that Fox News and   O’’Reilly paid out $13 million to women who accused him of   harassment, ranging from ”verbal abuse, lewd comments, unwanted   advances, and phone calls ’’in which it sounded as if Mr. O’Reilly   was masturbating, according to documents and interviews. ’’” ’ ”   In addition to five women who reportedly received settlements   totaling $13 million, two others have also accused the   conservative commentator of unwanted advances. When Wendy Walsh,   a regular guest on The O’Reilly Factor, refused an invitation to   go to O’Reilly’s hotel suite in 2013, he did not follow through   on securing her a job at Fox News, according to The Times. ” ”   Former Fox News personality Andrea Tantaros also accused O’Reilly   of sexual harassment in a  she filed last summer against the   network and its former chairman Roger Ailes. ” ’  —   with a $40   million exit package  —   in a sexual harassment scandal. ’ ”   O’Reilly has denied that there is any merit to the allegations   against him, and hired crisis communications expert Mark Fabiani   last week, who released a statement to The Times on behalf of   O’Reilly. ” ’   ”Just like other prominent and controversial people, I’m   vulnerable to lawsuits from individuals who want me to pay them   to avoid negative publicity,” the statement said. ”In my more   than 20 years at Fox News Channel, no one has ever filed a   complaint about me with the Human Resources Department, even on   the anonymous hotline. ’ ’   ”But most importantly, I’m a father who cares deeply for my   children and who would do anything to avoid hurting them in any   way. And so I have put to rest any controversies to spare my   children,” it continued. ’ ’   In a statement to CNN’’s Kludt, the Mercedes spokesperson called   the allegations against O’’Reilly ”disturbing” and added that   ”given the importance of women in every aspect of our business,   we don’’t feel this is a good environment in which to advertise   our products right now.” ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tBREAKING: Mercedes spokesperson tells me it’s pulled ads from the O’Reilly Factor  ” ’  has reportedly pulled its ads. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’