’  ’ ”   Rep. Joaquin Castro of Texas, a Democratic member of the House   Intelligence Committee, told CNN’s Wolf Blitzer on Tuesday that   he wouldn’t be surprised if the investigation into Russian   interference in the 2016 presidential election led to multiple   associates of President Donald Trump getting put behind   bars. ” ’   Castro made the stunning comment after Blitzer asked him   whether he has seen any ”hard evidence” that Trump associates had   worked to collude with Russian government officials in any way. ’ ’   Castro did not directly answer that question but offered his   ”impression.” ’ ’   ”I guess I would say this  —   that my impression is . .. I   wouldn’’t be surprised after all of this is said and done that   some people end up in jail,” Castro said. ’ ’   A somewhat surprised Blitzer asked, ”Really?” He subsequently   asked Castro how high his ”suspicion” went. ’ ’’ ’   ”That is yet to be determined,” Castro responded, adding he could   not divulge any additional information at the time. ’ ’   ”If I was betting, I would say yes,” he continued. ”My impression   is that people will probably be charged, and I think people will   probably go to jail.” ’ ’ after  that ousted   national security adviser Michael Flynn offered to testify before   both the House and Senate Intelligence Committee, as well as the   FBI in exchange for immunity  —   or, as his attorney outlined in a   statement, a guarantee he would not be subjected to ”unfair   prosecution.” ’ ’   None of the entities have accepted his offer. ’ ’   Trump defended Flynn in a tweet Friday morning, one day after The   Journal story broke. ’ ’   ”Mike Flynn should ask for immunity in that this is a witch hunt   (excuse for big election loss) by media & Dems, of historic   proportion!” . ’ ”   Flynn isn’t the only Trump associate who has found   himself close to the investigations being conducted by both   committees and the FBI. Several other Trump associates and   campaign officials, including confidant Roger Stone, former   campaign manager Paul Manafort, former adviser Carter Page, and   his    Jared Kushner,  by at least one of the   entities. ” ’   On Saturday, Trump took to Twitter to lash out over the     cloud hanging over his administration. ’ ’  ’ ’Rep. Joaquin Castro of Texas, a Democratic. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’