’  ’ ’   Russian president Vladimir Putin’’s spokesman, Dmitry Peskov,    that while Russia and   Syria Russia does not support Syrian   President Bashar   ”unconditionally.” ’ ’   Peskov added  ’ ”   Peskov’s comments came as President Donald Trump    against Assad for allegedly launching the worst chemical weapons   attack on Syrian civilians since 2013. ” ”   But experts are skeptical that Putin is really prepared to   relinquish his support for an ally he has consistently defended   throughout more than six years of brutal civil war. In late   September 2015, Moscow went as far as to intervene in the   conflict on Assad’s behalf, waging a   campaign   on   enclaves  —   and ultimately winning back Syria’s   largest city, Aleppo  —   that remains ongoing. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Some observers viewed Peskov’s statement Thursday as a signal   that Russia is willing to use its leverage in Syria not to   remove Assad, but to negotiate some kind of deal with the US that   would, at least temporarily, deter American military action. ” ”   The posture struck some as eerily reminiscent of Russia’s     offer to dispose of Assad’s chemical weapons   stockpile in 2013 as the Obama administration threatened a   military response to a gas attack that left more than 1, 000   civilians dead. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Ian Bremmer, president of the political risk firm Eurasia Group,   agreed that it was ”very unlikely” that Russia was ready to throw   Assad under the bus. ’ ’   ”But [Peskov’’s] statement does put some pressure on Assad to   both rein him in on his military activities” and push for   ”eventual diplomatic outcomes,” Bremmer said. ”Russia is one of   two key external players here  —   Iran being the other  —   and it   needs to assert itself with Assad, not just with the   international community.” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Three defense officials told Yousseff that Assad may have used   the chemical weapons to ”test” how the US would respond  —     especially since, last week, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and   US ambassador to the UN, Nikki Haley, suggested removing   Assad from power was no longer a priority. ’ ”   Faced once again with the threat of military action against one   of his closest partners, Putin appears to be staging a test of   his own. But, because Putin has never been known to bend to the   US’s will, it is unclear what will happen if Trump fails it. ” ’  ’ ’   Trump reiterated Thursday that ”what happened in Syria is a   disgrace to humanity,” though his calls to action were a bit more   subdued: Assad’’s ”there ’ ”Russian president Vladimir Putin’s spokesman. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’