’  ’ ’   23andMe can once again tell you whether you have an increased   risk of developing certain diseases. ’ ”   By the end of the month, 23andMe users will start to see some   results among their other health and ancestry reports, including   the results that tell you if you have an increased risk of   Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s disease. ” ”   The report will come with communications about what the test can   and can’t tell people. Still, members of a number of patient   advocate groups have one piece of advice for those interested in   seeing the results: talk to a genetic counselor, a professional   who can explain the implications of what an increased risk for   certain diseases means or your doctor.  ” ”   On Thursday, the FDA identified 10 risk tests that  could include Parkinson’s disease,     Alzheimer’s disease, Celiac disease, Gacher disease,   as well as some other rare and blood disorders. ” ”   The Celiac Disease Foundation said they welcomed the news, but   hopes that people will talk to their doctors if they test   positive. Celiac disease is an autoimmune disorder in which the   body can’t process gluten, the protein found in wheat and other   grains. ” ’’ ’   ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   What it means to have an increased risk of getting a certain   disease ’ ”   An increased risk doesn’t mean a person will necessarily get the   disease  —   just that the chances are higher. For example, in a     genetics test  —   which is not among the 10 that    is allowed to market  —   the risk of   getting breast cancer increases to as high as 65% from 7% when a   person has the BRCA1 or BRCA2 gene mutations. The FDA said in the   release that this type of test counted functions as a diagnostic   test, so it and others like it weren’t included as part of the   market authorization. ” ”   Some genetic tests can tell you a lot more definitively   about what that risk means than others. For cystic fibrosis, if   you have one of the variants associated with the disease, you   will then have the inherited lung disorder. But when it comes to   Parkinson’s, Lehr explained, even if you genetics suggest you   have an increased risk in the disease, the risk is still   relatively low. The biggest risk factor is age, he said. ” ”   The same can be said for   Alzheimer’s. Keith   Fargo, the Alzheimer’s Association director of scientific   programs and outreach, told Business Insider that there are three   levels of genetic risk when it comes to Alzheimer’s. The highest   are the genes connected to   Alzheimer’s. In those   cases, if you have the mutation, you will have the disease. ” ”   The second level is the APOE gene, which is the one 23andMe’s   test will screen for. In that case, if you have one copy of the   mutation, you’re at a   higher risk of one day getting   Alzheimer’s. If you have two copies, the risk goes up even more.   Even so, it’s not a done deal, Fargo said. People with multiple   copies sometimes don’t get the disease, and people with no copies   can still get the disease. Then there are others that have been   linked to an increased risk, but these are still mostly useful in   the context of research.  ” ”   The best place for APOE genetic testing, Fargo said, is in   pinpointing the right Alzheimer’s patients for   certain clinical trials.  ” ’   ”It’’s extremely useful from a research perspective,” he said.   It’’s less useful for people who aren’’t experiencing symptoms. As   with Parkinson’’s, age is a bigger risk factor. For people who   live to be 85, they have a 33% chance of having Alzheimer’’s. ’ ’   Back in  the US Food and Drug Administration barred  from sending any of that data related   to health to customers because of concerns that the company was   misrepresenting genetic tests as medical advice. ’ ’   When the test relaunched in 2015,  was able to provide health reports   showing whether a person carried a variant for a genetic disease   that could be passed down to his or her child, along with   wellness reports providing information about caffeine consumption   and lactose intolerance. ’ ”   Now that the FDA has given 23andMe clearance, Hibbs said the   company hopes to work with patient groups to make sure everyone’s   on the same page. During the FDA process, a lot had to be   confidential, Hibbs said. Fargo said the Alzheimer’s   Association has been communicating for the past few years, and   there are more discussions scheduled in the coming weeks to go   over the announcement.  ” ’23andMe can once again tell you whether you. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’