’’ ’Monitoring your home is both a comforting and frightening proposition. ’ ”On one hand, it’s nice to know the most possible information about your home, and feel secure even when you’re not there. ” ’On the other hand, the idea that something in your house is watching you is a little creepy.’ ’I saw both sides of the coin while testing out two  devices: Welcome, a camera with facial recognition capabilities, and Healthy Home Coach, a smart climate monitor. ’ ”Here’s what it was like. ” ’Netatmo favors   finishes (brushed metal in silver, gold, and copper) and modern designs for all its   products, which includes a smart smoke alarm, an outdoor security camera, security sensors for doors and windows (much like ) a weather station, a smart thermostat, and more. ’ ”You don’t need to be at home for the device to collect information, and you don’t need to manually sync your device with your app every time you want an update on the air quality. Once you set up the device and pair it with the app, it’s essentially doing all the work for you. ” ’’ ”I was pleasantly surprised by how consistently good the air quality was in my living room, but disappointed by how dry the air typically is. While that’s normal for New York City in the winter time, the Home Coach helped remind me to turn on my humidifier more often. ” ”I find that most smart home devices have too many features or invade my privacy too much. But since I don’t have a thermostat in my apartment or any way to gauge whether I’m breathing in polluted air, the Home Coach filled a void that I didn’t even know I had. Now, I can’t imagine not being able to track that information. ” ”In theory, Welcome is a very cool device. It’s just as   as the Home Coach with its gold anodized aluminum exterior and small size. And it’s easy to set up, although it requires a second app called Security. The device costs $199.” ’But after awhile, I started to get freaked out. It knew my face now, plus it was watching me.’ ’I was able to tweak the settings to record only when it detected motion and only when I was away, but its default setting was to record me immediately upon setting it up. I was just folding clothes and moving around my room, but what if I had been changing? What if I was checking my bank account online? Could someone hack into the app and watch me?’ ’(The answer to the latter question is, no, probably not. Netatmo says the videos that are sent to my phone are    encrypted and are stored on an SD card within the device. Remove the SD card and videos go along with it. )’ ’Regardless, the creepy, ”Big Brother” feel was too much for me. ’ ’I also found some shortcomings with the facial recognition: I was watching the movie ”Carol” while testing it, and it kept telling me Cate Blanchett and Rooney Mara were in my house. While not a real problem, it was a funny quirk of Netatmo’’s   capabilities. ’ ’The Welcome device did its job too well for my taste. It captured too much and recognized too many faces (including some that were only  ). And its abilities were too sophisticated for me: the   video is 1080p, plus the camera has excellent   capabilities. ’ ’In a tiny New York City apartment, this was more technology than I could handle. ’ ”My problem with Welcome is likely a larger problem with smart home cameras like Nest Cam, Canary, and others like it: At this point in my life, I just don’t need or want that level of security.” ’ ’ ’Monitoring your home is both a comforting and. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’