’  ’ ”   Gary Kindler is a frequent guest on Davidzon Radio in Brooklyn,   New York. He’s a political commentator on a station likened to a     version of Rush Limbaugh. ” ’   And so it was on a spring day in 2014 that Gindler, in his deep   Russian voice, started talking about Vladimir Putin and called   the leader a ” .” His distrust and distaste for   Russia’’s president is shared by many in the community. ’ ”   Gindler immigrated to New York from Ukraine in 1995, a few years   after the fall of the Soviet Union. His family didn’t have much   money and faced persecution as Jews. ” ’   Today, Gindler abhors policies that to him look like socialism in   the US while also hating   Putin, who he says   suppresses political opposition. ’ ’   Despite all that, Gindler is now a big supporter of a man who   often praises Putin and whose campaign has been accused of   colluding with the Russian leader: President Donald Trump. ’ ’   ”One of them is a democratically elected president with all   checks and balances upon him,” Gindler said of Trump. ”Another   one is a dictator with unrestricted power over his not citizens  —     subjects.” ’ ’   In this way Gindler is not unique. During the last election, many   of the  in the US embraced Trump out of disgust for the   socialist values that made them flee the Soviet republics.   Particularly among the generation of immigrants who came to the   US in the 1980s and ’’90s, the tendency to decry Putin’’s policies   as undemocratic while heralding Trump for his ”revolutionary”   promises persists. In the April primary, Trump earned  in Brighton Beach, an enclave of     immigrants in Brooklyn nicknamed ”Little Odessa.” ’ ”   Gindler dismisses allegations that Putin’s Russia helped Trump   win. He believes Russia was rooting for Trump but didn’t do   anything nefarious. It was Trump’s promise to crack down on   immigration from Muslim countries, decrease taxes, and repeal   President Obama’s Affordable Care Act that motivated Gindler to   support the Republican. ” ’   ”You shouldn’’t talk to any   person here in the   West and expect any positive words about Putin,” said Gindler, a   registered independent voter who cast his ballot for Trump in   November. ’ ”   Trump’s approval ratings  in the rest of the population, but among     support for Trump is still largely going   strong even as his administration faces ongoing intense scrutiny   over . ” ’  ’ ’   Samuel Kliger, director of Russian Jewish Community Affairs at   the American Jewish Community, said ”many are quite satisfied”   with Trump’’s performance and feel it is the Democrats in office   who are preventing him from moving the country forward. ’ ’   Even though both Putin and Trump are conservatives who have    and have been  for their ”thirst for power” by prominent     journalists, many of the     Americans who voted for Trump think that the two have nothing in   common. ’ ’   Evgeny Finkel, a   professor at the Columbia   College of Arts and Sciences, said many of the immigrants who   came to the US in the 1980s and ’’90s embrace Republican values of   personal and economic freedom because they wanted to escape   ”anything that smacks of socialism.” Putin, he said, still   reminds many of the Soviet ideologies, partly because of the   government’’s culture of cronyism and repression of dissenters. ’ ’   Support for Trump and a hatred of Putin ”can go together because   support of Trump in this population is not driven by love of   Russia and not even driven so much by Trump’s foreign policy,”   said Finkel, adding that certain   communities   voted Republican for years before Trump came along as a   presidential candidate. ’ ’   But as prominent   journalist Julia Ioffe wrote    many of the same people who fled     in the former Soviet republics supported a   candidate who built his platform on rhetoric and plans many see   as discriminatory, such as . ’ ’   Whether such views from Russian immigrants are contradictory or   not, Jonas Kaplan, a psychology professor at the University of   Southern California, said it is not uncommon for people to hold   conflicting political beliefs, sometimes unconsciously. Even when   confronted with contradictory evidence about a candidate, most   people will choose to ignore or reconcile views that challenge   their worldview rather than grapple with the possibility that   they may be wrong. ’ ’   “When people feel very identified with their political party,   it’s very difficult to change your mind because that means   changing your relationships with people,” said Kaplan, adding   that many people build a strong sense of community around   politically   people. When you have small groups of   people with similar beliefs, fitting in often matters more than   being right. ’ ”   As such, a continuing loyalty to Trump can continue to move in   tandem with a deep dislike for Putin among certain members of the     community. In fact, many now feel unfairly   discriminated against as some assume they’re  . ” ’   “It’s an incorrect assumption that because they are Russian and   because they voted for Trump, they also support Putin,” said   Kliger, who believes that many older people voted for Trump   because they ”wanted some changes for themselves and for the   country” rather than out of support for Russia. ’ ’  ’ ’   Of course not all Russian immigrants are  . Zoya   Conover, an art consultant who moved to Atlanta from Moscow in   1999, called both presidents ”hardworking” and said that Trump   might now have the chance to do for the US what Putin has done   for Russia since taking power in 1999. ’ ’   “He wants Russia for Russians,” she said. Putin helped quell     discontent, she said, and created a stronger sense   of Russian identity since taking power. She wants to see a   stronger alliance between the two countries. ’ ’ are introduced   across the US, the more common view among   is   that Putin and Trump are opposites. ’ ’   “People who got freedom here will never tolerate what is going on   over there,” said Gindler. ’ ’Gary Kindler is a frequent guest on Davidzon. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’