’  ’ ’   Alec Baldwin raised eyebrows in the middle of last night’s   “” by   doing an impression of embattled Fox News anchor Bill O’Reilly   hosting a virtually   “O’Reilly Factor”  —   and then   interviewing a supportive President Donald Trump, also played by   the actor. ’ ’   In doing so, Baldwin created the effect of being on screen twice,   a feat accomplished by taping one of the performances ahead of   time. The show has employed this technique in the past, when Dana   Carvey would play both President George H. W. Bush and   presidential candidate Ross Perot during debate sketches. ’ ’   Baldwin scored laughs by telling “Factor” viewers the show still   had a few reliable sponsors, like  “Dog Cocaine. ” Fox News   Channel has seen dozens of advertisers seek to move their   commercials out of O’Reilly’s program in the wake of a New York   Times report detailing  payments made to women who levied   allegations of inappropriate behavior at O’Reilly, who has said   in a recent statement that he had been a target, but had never   been the subject of any complaints made to Fox News’ Human   Resources department. ’ ’ ’ ’   Baldwin also reprised his popular impression of the President in   the show’s “cold open,” in which the fake      appeared at a meeting in a rural Kentucky   town. At a town hall meeting, he tried to elicit support for the   recent U. S. missile strike against Syria while telling attendees   his administration would cut many government services and   benefits upon which they rely. ’ ’ ’ ’   Comedian Louis C. K. delivered an extended   monologue that   included a routine asking about animals’ inner thoughts. ’ ’ ’ ’   Another standout sketch poked fun at the recent controversy   surrounding Pepsi’s latest commercial, which was pulled within a   day of going on the air. In a taped segment, Beck Bennett plays a   writer who calls friends from the set of the commercial shoot to   tell them about the concept  —   only to learn it’s offensive   to people from many backgrounds. ’ ’ ’ ’   Next week,  from coast   to coast for the season’s last four episodes, starting with Jimmy   Fallon’s hosting gig. ’ ’Alec Baldwin raised eyebrows in the middle of. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’