’  ’ ’   One of the biggest waves of retail closures in decades is killing   off malls across the US and taking some Wall Street investments   with it. ’ ”   Struggling with online competition, huge retailers like Sears,   JCPenney, and Macy’s are closing hundreds of stores that   typically anchor malls  —   meaning they occupy the largest spaces   at mall entrances and drive a majority of shopper traffic. ” ’   When a big store shuts down, it triggers a chain reaction that   can end with the shopping mall unable to collect enough rent to   cover its debts, forcing it to default. By one measure, as many   as a third of the malls in the US are at risk of facing this   situation. ’ ”   This has become a nightmare for investors who are expecting to   collect on those debts. They own bonds  —   called commercial     securities, or CMBSs  —   that are backed by the   mall properties’ rents. ” ’  ’ ”   If this sounds familiar, that’s because it’s similar to one   element of the financial crisis. Back then,     securities, which pooled homeowners’ mortgages into a     financial market were part of the problem.   They encouraged risky lending and, together with derivatives on   the bonds that were ginned up by Wall Street, left banks and   investors with massive losses that threatened the financial   system as a whole.    Nobody is predicting anything that dire today, but CMBSs  —   which,   Morgan Stanley says, account for nearly 10% of the $3. 6 trillion   commercial   mortgage market  —   work similarly. They   pool together debt payments from several malls or other   commercial properties and then splice them up so that investors   can buy the segment and take on the kind of risk they want.   What’s happening in the retail market, though, is worse than   anyone who invested in the bonds could’ve imagined a few years   ago. ” ’   ”Malls are hard to turn around once they go downhill,” says Steve   Jellinek, vice president of CMBS analytical services for   Morningstar Credit Ratings. As a result, many CMBS investments   are getting wiped out and ”retail lending has really taken a   beating,” he said. ’ ’   About $48 billion in loans backed by mall properties are at risk   of default, according to Morningstar. ’ ’  ’ ”   Jellinek points to Hudson Valley Mall in Kingston, New York, as   an example of the domino effect triggered by a mall’s demise. The   Hudson Valley mall’s decline was profiled by    a site dedicated to dying retail, which says this about its   recent history: ” ’     ”The recent recession and downturn of retail sales as a whole     has started to take hold of the mall in rapid succession. Many     smaller stores have vacated, and both Buffalo Wild Wings and     Friendly’’s (a staple since the mall opened) have left. The big     blows came when both JCPenney and Macy’’s shuttered in 2015 and     2016 respectively. Sears and Target remain as the only major     anchors, along with Best Buy and Dick’’s, but they have not been     enough to draw traffic.”   ’ ’   The mall defaulted on its $49. 1 million loan in 2015 and was put   into receivership last summer, the  a newspaper based in Kingston, reported. In    it was sold for $8. 4 million, a   fraction of the property’s $66 million assessment. ’ ’   Jellinek said this kind of fire sale is common with distressed   mall properties. ’ ’   ”A lot of times these malls decrease in value so fast,” he said.   ”There is very little the servicer can do to maintain the value   once tenants start leaving.” ’ ’   The CMBS that backed the property took a hit worth . In this scenario, the lowest class of   bondholders will likely end up  . It could also affect   the second and third class of investors from the bottom. ’ ’  ’ ’   It’’s not just the debt market that’’s taking a hit.     investment trusts that own the malls themselves are suffering,   and investors are being advised to avoid them. For example, in a   lengthy research note discussing the   market, Morgan   Stanley recently identified  as one of its ”highest conviction underweight   recommendation,” citing ”elevated risk from lease modifications   and store closures.” ’ ’  ’ ’   CBL was  a job that required it to   find new tenants for the empty space. Its shares are down more   than 50% over the past two years. ’ ’   Ten years ago, before the recession, retail investments appeared   much rosier and CMBS loans skyrocketed. ’ ’   ”Lenders were falling over themselves to make loans on mall   properties,” and their terms were overly optimistic in expecting   revenue to improve, Jellinek said. ’ ’   ”When the economy went into the dumpster, cash flow fell, and   that led to outsized losses.” ’ ’   Now, Morningstar expects CMBS lending overall to drop 16% from   $70 billion last year to $60 billion this year.    Of course not everyone is suffering. As with the     crisis, some investors  —   like Jason Mudrick   of the $1. 6 billion Mudrick Capital Management  —   have been   betting on the decline in CMBS by shorting some securities. ’ ’   ”This is a forever trend,” he told  referring the retail industry’’s struggles. ”When   you think about how things are going to look 10 years from now,   or 20 years from now, our parents will be dead, our kids will be   adults  —   you think more people are going to be shopping online or   less? This is the Amazon effect, and it’’s here forever.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Not all malls are under threat. The industry categorizes malls by   their location and the quality of their anchors. ’ ’   Class A malls  —   those in wealthy areas with high occupancy rates   and upscale anchors such as Nordstrom and Neiman Marcus  —   are   doing fine. But class B malls and those in the C and D   territories are at risk of default. ’ ’   The   research firm Green Street Advisors estimates   that 30% of all malls fall under the C and D classifications.   That means at least a third of shopping malls are . ’ ’   ”This year will be the year of retail bankruptcies,” Corali     a bankruptcy lawyer told Business Insider after she   attended a recent  in Palm Beach, Florida.   ”Retailers are running out of cash, and the dominoes are starting   to fall.” ’ ’Department stores are shutting hundreds of. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’