’  ’ ’   Bridgewater Associates founder and   Ray Dalio is as well   known for his remarkable investing career as he is for his   unusual approach to management. To him, both are intertwined. ’ ’   In an interview with Business Insider’’s  Henry Blodget on ”,” BI’’s new weekly business show, Dalio laid out   the fundamental investment philosophy that led to Bridgewater’’s   becoming the world’’s largest hedge fund in 2005. ’ ”   It’s maintained that position ever since, and as of   2016   managed $103 billion in hedge find assets with $150 billion in   total assets under management, according to HFI. ” ’   Not long after founding Bridgewater Associates out of his   apartment in 1975 (a proper office in Westport, Connecticut   didn’’t come until 1981) Dalio realized that he could continue   improving his returns by solidifying recurring lessons into   ”principles,”  as   well. ’ ’   ”What I did every time I made a mistake  —   they became painful   mistakes  —   but with time I realized that reflecting on those   mistakes would give me gems,” Dalio told Blodget. ”And I’’d write   down a rule.” ’ ’   Those rules accumulated into investing principles, which Dalio   then translated mathematically into computer algorithms so he   could test their accuracy by applying them to past market   movements. ’ ’   ”And by putting all those rules together, and then having these   algorithms, the computer could replicate my thinking,” he said.   ”But it could actually think better than I could because what it   would do is . .. it could process more information, it could   process it faster, it could process it less emotionally.” ’ ’   Dalio likened building Bridgewater’’s portfolio in the early days   to driving with a GPS. He was in charge of the car, but he had an   automated system guiding him along. ”And to have that next to me   was invaluable. It would learn; I would learn.” ’ ’   He said that the major benefit of this approach was being able to   gain more insight into optimal asset diversification. ’ ’   ”People think that the way that you do best is to have the best   possible bets,” Dalio said. ”The way that you do best is to have   the best possible diversification.” ’ ’   ”I learned that if I could have 10 or 15 uncorrelated bets, and   they’’re all about the same return, that I could cut my risk by   75% or 85%,” he added. ”That would mean that I would increase my   return to risk ratio by a factor of five through   diversification.” ’ ”   Dalio developed Bridgewater’s core investment principles through   the 1980s, and then in the 90s applied that approach to people   management. He eventually collected these in an employee   handbook,  which is available online and will be published   in book format by Simon & Schuster in the fall. In recent   years, these management principles are increasingly becoming   automated, as well, . ” ’   A primary lesson of these management principles are essentially   what triggered those from the investment side: ”Pain + Reflection   = Progress.” ’ ’   ”Because you know the same things happen over and over again,”   Dalio told Blodget. ”The same things happen over and over again   in the markets  —   everything that we’’ve been through, every cycle.   Everything has happened in the past. The same thing happened over   and over again in politics. Same things happen over and over   again in our lives.” ’ ’   If you can recognize this and have a way of anticipating   recurring behavior  —   whether it’’s in markets or in people  —   Dalio   said, ”that’’s an effective way of approaching the game that   you’’re playing.” ’ ’   You can watch the first episode of ”The Bottom Line”  and watch Dalio explain how he learned to   invest below. ’ ’ ’ ’Bridgewater Associates founder and   Ray. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’