’  ’ ”   The Pulitzer Prizes were  Monday, and many of this year’s prizewinners shared   one thing in common: they’ve all been the target of insults from   President Donald Trump. ” ”   Since Trump’s campaign for the presidency began in 2015, his   public war against the media has been central to his appeal among   his supporters. ” ”   Here are some of the disparaging names he’s called Monday’s   Pulitzer recipients, according to a  of all the insults Trump has made on   Twitter since 2015. ” ’   The New York Times, which led the pack with three Pulitzers, also   received the brunt of Trump’’s criticism on Twitter, having been   called ”failing,” ”fake news,” and ”dishonest” over the past year   and half, among several other insults. ’ ”   The award for   journalism was given to the New York   Daily News and ProPublica. Together, they uncovered the New York   Police Department’s abuse of eviction laws, prompting sweeping   changes to the department. ” ’   Trump has called the newspaper ”worthless,” ”dead,” ”a dying   tabloid,” and ”failing,” among other insults. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tThere are no buyers for the worthless  but little Mort Zuckerman is frantically looking. It is bleeding red ink   a total loser! ’t’t’ ’   ProPublica,   of the   award, was never   publicly ridiculed by Trump, although White House press secretary   Sean Spicer did refer to the outlet as a ”  blog” at a   recent press briefing. The news site  in a lengthy series of tweets. ’ ’   Peggy Noonan of The Wall Street Journal won a Pulitzer Prize for   her commentary on the 2016 election. ’ ’   Trump has described The Journal as ”failing,” ”so wrong, so   often,” ”” and ”so dishonest,” among other   insults, and he’’s described the newspaper’’s editorial board   members as ”dummies.” ’ ”   The Washington Post’s David Fahrenthold won the Pulitzer for   national reporting for his work on Trump’s charitable donations.   As it turns out, Fahrenthold discovered, Trump had exaggerated   many of his philanthropic claims, and in many cases, hadn’t   donated at all to organizations he said he gave money to. ” ’   Trump has called The Washington Post ”phony” and ”so false and   angry,” and said it publishes ”inaccurate stories” and ”dishonest   reporting,” among other insults. ’ ’The Pulitzer Prizes were revealed Monday, and. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’