’  ’ ’   On March 23, Federal Reserve Vice Chair Stanley Fischer was the   keynote speaker at a    dinner in Washington, DC. ’ ”   There, he gave prepared remarks on regulatory policy and the   Fed’s response to the financial crisis, and he took questions   from the audience on the highly   topic of     policy. ” ”   Federal Reserve officials give speeches all the time. What makes   this one notable is that it was closed to the public, Fischer’s   prepared comments have not been made available, and the fact the   speech took place at all was not widely known. ” ”   It also came just days before another Fed official, Jeffrey   Lacker, abruptly resigned as the Richmond Fed president after   admitting that he played a role in a 2012 leak of     details of the central bank’s internal   deliberation. That leak, which arguably damaged the Fed’s   credibility, was to a private consultant that then shared the   details with clients who stood to net millions in profits by   trading ahead of the release of news. ” ”   As Lacker’s resignation shows, it’s a scandal that continues to   haunt the Fed. It doesn’t, however, seem to have discouraged the   central bank from letting officials speak in private settings in   which only a small group of people can glean insight from their   comments. ” ”   Fischer’s participation and the nature of his comments were   described to me by two conference participants. The Federal   Reserve declined to comment for this story. ” ’   ”There is always a dinner speaker who is off the record and   reporters are not ever invited,” Brookings Institution   spokeswoman DJ Nordquist said of the conference, which is an   annual event. ’ ”   I don’t know exactly what Fischer said, in part because the Fed   hasn’t put his comments up on its website as it does with other   speeches.  ” ”   But Fed actions are some of the most   events in the   world. Small pronouncements from a single official, especially   one of Fischer’s   status, can have deep consequences   in stock, bond, foreign exchange, and other markets around the   world. For that reason, every small nonpublic insight a trader or   banker can acquire from the Fed has massive potential value. ” ’   This means Fed officials should not be speaking in private in the   first place, especially since the practice appears to violate the   . ’ ’   The rules, drafted in response to a  specifically say:   ”To the fullest extent possible, Committee participants will   refrain from describing their personal views about monetary   policy in any meeting or conversation with any individual, firm,   or organization who could profit financially from acquiring that   information unless those views have already been expressed in   their public communications.” ’ ’   Fischer may not have said anything that would have immediately   moved markets. But his very presence and willingness to take   questions from   executives out of view of the   media speaks to the kind of secrecy that the central bank   portends to be countering with a transparency push that began   under its former chair Ben Bernanke and that has continued under   Janet Yellen. ’ ’   True, Brookings is a nonprofit institution, not a bank. But its   donors, the ones who get to attend   dinners,    Its  includes two of the largest   investors   in the world  —   Carlyle Group cofounder David Rubenstein and Glenn   Hutchins, a cofounder of Silver Lake  —   as well as     executives at Goldman Sachs, Deutsche Bank, and JPMorgan. ’ ”   The 2012 leak, to Medley Global Advisors, raised new questions   since his letter of resignation indicated he merely confirmed   information that was already in Medley’s possession, . And the Fed’s initial   response was to paper over the issue with a  which was eventually taken   over by the FBI and a congressional committee. ” ”   But what Fischer’s speech last month shows is that the Fed has   yet to grapple with the opaque practices that lead to situations   like this in the first place. When it comes to speaking in   private to   there’s only one thing left for Fed   officials to do: Just stop. ” ’On March 23, Federal Reserve Vice Chair Stanley. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’