PHILADELPHIA  —   Transit workers here went on strike Tuesday, halting bus, trolley and subway service, and forcing hundreds of thousands of people onto packed commuter trains and roads to get to and from work or school. The strike by about 4, 700 workers of the Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority shut down transit lines that normally provide nearly a million rides each weekday. As arduous as the morning rush was, the evening commute became even more challenging as pickets blocked employees’ access to their work assignments for Regional Rail service. That service, which extends from the city into the suburbs and was not part of the work stoppage, caused a “significant” number of trains to be canceled or disrupted, said the authority, which urged people who had been counting on the Regional Rail system to find other ways of getting home. Around 6 p. m. Septa said it had secured an injunction allowing train crews and other employees to report to their work assignments without interference from striking workers. “Septa hopes this will ensure that incidents like those that disrupted service today will not happen again,” it said. Thousands of people stood in long lines at Regional Rail stations in Center City, unsure how long they would have to wait to catch trains home. Employees held most commuters on the concourse levels of the stations to prevent dangerous overcrowding on the platforms below. Commuters were packed shoulder to shoulder on the trains that did run, some of them an hour behind schedule or more. The commuter trains accepted transit passes, and express trains made local stops to take on and discharge more passengers. John Agovino, 36, was among a group of commuters corralled into a holding area at Suburban Station around 7:30 p. m. Mr. Agovino, a foreign currency exchange trader, had been waiting 30 minutes for a train on the   Line to get home. The wait was better than the “atrocious” queue he had seen after he left work at 4:30 p. m. he said, adding, “That’s why I went to dinner instead. ” A display listed the train as being 99 minutes late. Even without the cancellations, the regional rail service, which normally provides 130, 000 rides a weekday, could absorb only a fraction of the overflow. Members of Transport Workers Union Local 234 had voted to go on strike at 12:01 a. m. when their contract expired, if a new contract settlement was not reached, and negotiations on Monday failed to produce an agreement. The union last walked out in 2009, in a strike lasting six days. “Despite months of constructive and innovative proposals from our side of the table, management has refused to budge on key issues, including safety issues that would save lives and not cost Septa a dime,” said Willie Brown, the local president. He said the two sides remained far apart on pension and health care issues, as well as scheduling and driver fatigue. Andrew Busch, a spokesman for the authority, released a statement saying, “Mr. Brown walked away from a contract offer that would have provided his members pay raises, enhanced pension benefits, maintained health care coverage levels and continued job security, while also remaining fair and affordable for the taxpayers and riders who fund Septa. ” Transit officials said they were hopeful that a tentative agreement would be reached before Election Day, next Tuesday, and urged the union to return to negotiations. If not, the agency said in a statement, it will seek an injunction ordering employees back to work for that day, “to ensure that the strike does not prevent any voters from getting to the polls and exercising their right to vote. ” Mike Locasale, a commuter who usually takes the   subway line, took a regional train on Tuesday morning, and said he was half an hour late for work. Rushing through the Art Deco Suburban Station in Center City, he said he planned to start out 30 minutes early on Wednesday and call for an Uber driver “to beat some of the traffic. ” Craig Chaney, 68, usually walks half a block to catch a bus to go to his medical checkups. Instead, “I had to walk about 10 blocks” to get to a Regional Rail station, he said, “which is bad, because I’ve had about three heart operations and I have to see doctors. ” He left himself plenty of time, arriving at Suburban Station two hours early. Brianna   stood in   weather at the Tulpehocken Regional Rail station of the Chestnut Hill West Line, waiting for a train that was running late. Asked if she would be late for work, she laughed and said, “Probably. ” Mayor Jim Kenney urged “both Septa and the Transport Workers Union to maintain communication despite the work stoppage. ” “Tens of thousands of Philadelphians rely on the buses, trolleys and subways,” Mr. Kenney said, “so it is vital for everyone that this situation be resolved as quickly as possible. ”