’    ’ ’   North Korea has managed to conduct costly nuclear and ballistic   missile development projects while under some of the strictest,   most   sanctions under the sun for decades. ’ ’   Now, Kim   stands within a few years of completing a   credible intercontinental ballistic missile the US would very   much struggle to defend against.  ’ ’   Despite the UN and key players like China and the US consistently   voting in favor of sanctions on North Korea, the regime   still finds way to slip around them. ’ ’   Much like their nuclear warheads and missiles, North Korea’’s   sanction evasion techniques are ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   One tactic North Korea has used for shipping missile components   and military equipment is sailing under false flags. Though it’s   illegal to trade military goods with North Korea, a North   Korean ship, the ’Jie Shun,’ was  in Egypt carrying tens of thousands of North     explosives while sailing under a Cambodian flag. ” ”   For small Asian countries who cannot afford arms and   equipment from China and can’t get past US and European arms   regulations, North Korea offers cheap, accessible   gear. ” ’   ’ ’  ’ ’   But earning money illicitly only works if you can move it, and   North Korea needs to move a lot of money to fund its missile   program under tight banking sanctions. ’ ’   North Korea injects uncertainty into the paper trail of   its banking system by   using  ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   But even the most   states sometimes fall victim   to North Korea’s trickery. A  the regime uses a system   of false addresses and fake names to  countries into accidentally doing business with   them. Taking advantage of their shared Korean language,   North Korean businessmen sometimes take the same name as South   Korean businessman. Flubbed addresses that refer to North   Korea as the  ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   The money made off beating sanctions seems to go to North Korea’s   expensive missile programs, lavish parties, and palaces for Kim   and his inner circle, while the  still provides tons of food aid to North   Korea and estimates 70% of citizens are  . ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’North Korea has managed to conduct costly. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’