’  ’ ’   President Donald Trump signaled that he was making a major   reversal on two campaign promises during  with The Wall Street   Journal Wednesday. ’ ’   Trump told the Journal he is not going to label China a currency   manipulator  —   something he promised he would do on the first day   of his presidency  —   and that he is now in favor of the US     Bank, an entity he railed against during the   campaign. ’ ’   After meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping last weekend,   Trump said he changed his mind on what was a signature campaign   promise: labeling China a currency manipulator  —   a country that   lessens the value of its currency to cheat on trade. ’ ’   Trump said labeling China a currency manipulator would jeopardize   his discussions with Xi regarding North Korea. ’ ’   ”They’re not currency manipulators,” Trump said. ’ ’   Trump added that he would be amicable to a trade agreement with   China that does not do quite as much to lessen the trade deficit   in order to ”solve the problem in North Korea.” ’ ’   ”I told him, I said, ’’You know we’re not going to let that   [current trade deficit] go ahead,’’” Trump said ”’’But you want to   make a great deal? Solve the problem in North Korea. ’’ That’s   worth having deficits. And that’s worth having not as good a   trade deal as I would normally be able to make.” ’ ”   The comments were a far cry from statements he made about the   US’s trade relationship with the Asian superpower both during the   campaign and after he was elected president. ” ’   ”I beat the people from China,” he said at a rally in South   Carolina in July 2015. ”I win against China. You can win against   China if you’’re smart. But our people don’’t have a clue. We give   state dinners to the heads of China. I said why are you doing   state dinners for them? They’’re ripping us left and right. Just   take them to McDonald’’s and go back to the negotiating table.” ’ ’   Nearly a year later, in May 2016, Trump told an Indiana rally   that the US ”can’t continue to allow China to rape our country   and that’s what they’re doing.” ’ ’   ”It’s the greatest theft in the history of the world,” he   continued. ’ ’   In June, he called Chinese leaders ”grand chess masters” at   manipulating their currency. ’ ’   ”The single biggest weapon used against us and to destroy our   companies is devaluation of currencies, and the greatest ever at   that is China,” he said at a New Hampshire rally. ”Very smart,   they are like grand chess masters. And we are like checkers   players. But bad ones.” ’ ’   Responding to the change, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer   said Trump’’s move was”symptomatic of a lack of real, tough action   on trade against China.” ’ ’   ”When the President fails to label them a currency manipulator,   he gives them a green light to steal our jobs and wealth time and   time again,” Schumer said in a statement. ”The best way to get   China to cooperate with North Korea, is to be tough on them with   trade, which is the number one thing China’s government cares   about.” ’ ’  ’ ’   On the   Bank, Trump said the entity is ”a very good   thing.” ’ ’   ”It turns out that, first of all, lots of small companies are   really helped, the vendor companies,” Trump said. ”But also,   maybe more important, other countries give [assistance]. When   other countries give it we lose a tremendous amount of business.” ’ ’   The agency is a favored target of the more conservative wing of   the Republican Party, which . ’ ’   Early in the campaign, Trump  that he didn’’t like the   agency, which was ”unnecessary.” ’ ’   ”It’s a   street also,” he said. ”It’s sort of a feather   bedding for politicians and others, and a few companies. And   these are companies that can do very well without it. So I don’t   like it. I think it’s a lot of excess baggage. I think it’s   unnecessary.” ’ ’   Speaking about the agency to the Journal Wednesday, Trump said,   ”Instinctively, you would say, ’’Isn’t that a ridiculous thing. ’’” ’ ’   ”But actually, it’s a very good thing,” he added. ”And it   actually makes money, it could make a lot of money.” ’ ’   Trump also signaled support for Federal Reserve Chair Janet   Yellen, who he criticized during the campaign for maintaining low   interest rates. ’ ’   Elsewhere Wednesday, Trump marked another change in his posture   when, during a joint press conference with NATO Secretary   General Jens Stoltenberg at the White House, he said the     alliance was now again worthwhile for the United   States. ’ ’   ”I said it was obsolete,”  ”It’’s no longer obsolete.” ’ ’   Trump  hoping to assure supporters he was not   flipping on his promises.  ’ ’   ”One by one we are keeping our promises  —   on the border, on   energy, on jobs, on regulations,” he wrote. ”Big changes are   happening!” ’ ’President Donald Trump signaled that he was. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’