’  ’ ’   President Donald Trump ruffled some feathers on Thursday with his   choice of words when describing an overseas military operation. ’ ’   The comments came when a White House press pool reporter asked   Trump if he had personally authorized the deployment of the     bomb that was  complex. ’ ’   ”Everybody knows exactly what happened. What I do is I authorize   my military,” Trump said. ”We have the greatest military in the   world and they’’ve done a job as usual. So we have given them   total authorization.” ’ ’   The phrase ”my military” stuck out to members of the defense   community, some of whom did not appreciate Trump’’s use of the   possessive pronoun. Chief among them was Leon Panetta, a former   defense secretary and CIA director who served under President   Barack Obama. ’ ’   ”When it comes to the military, the military belongs to the   country. Our defense system belongs to the country. And it’’s not   the president’’s military, it’’s the military of the United States   of America,” Panetta said on MSNBC’’s ”Hardball with Chris   Matthews.” ’ ’   ”He has responsibility obviously, as commander in chief, to be   able to make decisions with regards to our military. But I think   if you ask the men and women in uniform who they are responsible   to, I think their answer would be, ’’We’’re responsible to the   United States of America. ’’” ’ ’ ’ ’Today  called the military ”my military.” Here’’s how Fmr. CIA Director & Fmr. Sec. of Defense Leon Panetta reacted. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’t.: ”I authorized MY military . ..” MY? You refused to serve in the military or pay tax to support it . .. it’’s not yours! ’t’t’ ’ ’t’t’t. use phrases like ”My Military ” ”My Generals” As if these Generals & Admirals appeared out of the air. Not yours it’’s ours  ’ ’ ’t’t’tDonald Trump said ”I authorize my military.” Any school kid knows it’’s not his military. It’’s ours. ’t’t’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tTrump is the commander in chief of the military, the highest rank possible. He has every right to say ”. ..MY military. ..”’t’t’ ’President Donald Trump ruffled some feathers on. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’