’  ’ ’   President Donald Trump is ”very upset” that Amanda Knox, the   American college student who sparked an international   firestorm after being accused of murder in Italy, supported   Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton, according to a    in The New York Times. ’ ”   Trump had commissioned  to look into   Knox’s case while he was in Italy, the Times reported. ” ’   Lombardi told the newspaper that Trump is ”very upset” that Knox   supported Clinton.  ’ ’   Trump publicly defended Knox in the earlier part of the decade,   when the case was garnering worldwide attention. ’ ’   He  that Knox ”is innocent” and   ”Italian government should pay for this travesty.” ’ ’   In a 2010 interview with   Trump offered financial support   for Knox’’s family in the case. He said that after ”watching it   for a while,” he thought ”this is not a guilty person.” ’ ’   ”I’m good at judging people,” he said. ”I study people, and I   became rich because I understand what people are about.” ’ ’   Trump later added that   Barack Obama ”should get   involved immediately and get her the hell out of jail.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Knox, in a  voiced her support for   Clinton during the 2016 campaign. She tweeted a handful of times   in favor of the former secretary of state,  ”#YesWeCan” and   ”#ImWithHer.” ’ ’   ”Donald Trump has succeeded in coming a step away from the most   powerful position in the world merely because he is a   destabilizing agent,” Knox wrote in her blog. ”No matter that he   is inexperienced, uninformed, and irresponsible (to say the very   least). Both candidates seem disturbingly disconnected, in their   own ways. Hillary Clinton from the people. Donald Trump from   rationality.” ’ ’   ”I’m feeling less apathetic about this election,” she added.   ”It’s not that Clinton has shown herself to be more than just the   lesser of two evils. It’s that her impending victory represents   the triumph of nuance and poise over prejudice and childishness.   And that’s something I can get excited about.” ’ ’President Donald Trump is ”very upset” that. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’