’  ’ ’   Right and   protesters clashed on Saturday at a park in   downtown Berkeley, California, exchanging blows and throwing   bottles and cans as police in riot gear sought to separate the   two camps, using explosive devices at one point. ’ ’   At least 13 demonstrators were arrested during the brawls,    who also said   they ”anticipate more.” Police initially announced that there had   been 15 arrests, but later tweeted out a correction.  ’ ’  ’ ’   And although a makeshift barrier had been raised between the two   groups, it did not deter demonstrators, . ’ ’    ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tA small blast, tear gas, a charge, and a small scuffle broken up by police at Berkeley. People coughing, tearing up  ’ ’ ’t’t’tBPD detain protester   ’ ’   Photographs from the brawls show Trump supporters wearing   ”Make America Great Again” gear and using masks and helmets to   cover their faces.  ’ ’  ’ ’   Demonstrators also used skateboards and helmets as weapons.  ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tDemonstrators are punching each other and even using skateboards and helmets as weapons in .   ’ ’    And although Berkeley police had  weapons like knives,   bricks, rocks, glass bottles, and more from being brought to   Civic Center Park, they confiscated a number of those   items from people entering the area.  ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tHere are some of the prohibited items that have already removed from the park today.   ’ ’   ”I wanted to show my support (for President Donald Trump),” said   Daryl Tempesta, 52, who said he served in the U. S. Air Force near   the end of the Cold War. ’ ’   ”As a veteran, I like the track America is on, and that Trump is   willing to stand and say we are still America and we are not   going to be globalist, we’’re not going to be a communist country.   That’’s a message I can get behind,” Tempesta said. ’ ’   Among the   were   anarchists of the   left, dressed in black and covering their faces with masks or   bandanas. ’ ”   As a result of the protests, which spread from the park to the   streets, Berkeley’s downtown BART station has been closed down. ” ’Right and   protesters clashed on. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’