’  ’ ”   In late 2012, Kathleen Boluch needed a new car  —   a drunk driver   had left hers totaled  —   but she knew it wouldn’t be easy to get. ” ”   Boluch, who lives in Massachusetts, was freelancing and wasn’t   making much money. She didn’t have much in savings. On top of   that, she had a credit score below 500, which is considered very   risky. ” ’   It took visits to numerous dealerships in the Boston area before   she found one that would let her finance a car. ’ ’   ”I remember they were on the phones and computers trying to find   a bank to approve a loan for me,” she told Business Insider of   the people at the dealership. ’ ’   The salesman asked Boluch how much she made. ”I was honest and   told him that I am a freelance advertising copywriter and didn’’t   make much,” she said. ’ ’   ”One guy shouted, ’’Let’’s try Santander, they’’ll do it,’’” she   said. ’ ’   To make it easier to get approved, the salesman told her that the   dealership could hire her to do some of its advertising and that   it would include that income on the loan application. ’ ’   ”I was naive and got tricked by these jocular car salesmen,” she   said. ’ ”   The dealer was right  —      approved Boluch for the loan in October 2012. She drove home in a   2010 Chevrolet that cost $18, 000. But she soon couldn’t keep up   with her monthly payments, and the dealership did not keep its   promise of giving her work, she said. ” ”   When she read a story in The New York Times about subprime auto   loans and fraud, Boluch sent the clipping to the office of   Massachusetts Attorney General Maura Healey. In late March,   Healey’s office announced it would receive  with Santander Bank over its      securitization. ” ’  ’ ’   It said the bank knowingly bought   auto loans, including   Boluch’’s, from a group of dealers it identified as ”fraud   dealers.” The bank bundled the loans and sold them to other   investors. ’ ’   The settlement was part of a broader investigation of   securitization practices in the    market by   Healey. ’ ’   ”Our industrywide investigation is ongoing,” Healey told Business   Insider in March. ”I certainly do not think that this practice is   limited to Santander or our state.” ’ ’   In a statement to Business Insider, a Santander representative   said: ”We are pleased to put this matter behind us so we can move   forward and continue to focus on serving our customers.” ’ ”   Boluch’s story is part of a bigger narrative emerging about the     market  —   and specifically subprime auto lending. ” ’     fraud is increasing, according to some estimates. The   delinquency rate for subprime auto loans is at its highest level   in at least seven years. Banks are pulling back, and newer   players with looser lending standards are stepping in.     securities based on auto loans are showing signs of   stress. ’ ’   And Wall Street is worried. ’ ”   People with credit scores of about 600 and below are considered   especially risky by lenders. That’s why they issue     subprime loans to them that generally have higher interest rates.   Subprime auto loans make up $179 billion of the   market,   a 16% share, but that balance has been increasing at a rapid   clip. ” ’   According to data from Experian, the balance of deep subprime   loans  —   those given to people with credit scores of 300 to 500  —     increased 14. 6% from 2015 to 2016. ’ ’   Subprime loans  —   those given to people with credit scores in the   range of 501 to 600  —   increased by 8. 6%. This is far higher than   the growth of prime loans, which witnessed 6. 2% growth. ’ ’  ’ ”   Subprime loans are, by definition, riskier than prime loans  —     they’re going to people who have a greater chance of defaulting. ” ’   As such, the rise of subprime lending has triggered a rise in   unpaid loans. ’ ’   The Federal Reserve Bank of New York in November  about the uptick in the delinquency rate of   auto loans. In a post published on its Liberty Street Economics   blog, researchers highlighted the deteriorating performance of   subprime auto loans. ’ ’   ”The worsening in the delinquency rate of subprime auto loans is   pronounced, with a notable increase during the past few years,”   the report said. ’ ’   However, it said the overall delinquency rate for auto loans was   pretty stable, and the majority were performing well. ’ ’   But subprime loans are a horse of a different color. The report   said the subprime delinquency rate for the trailing     period moved to 2% in the third quarter. The only other time it   was 2% or more was in the immediate aftermath of the 2008   financial crisis. ’ ’   In other words, the subprime delinquency rate is creeping up   while the subprime market is ballooning in size. ’ ’   The Liberty Street Economics post said: ’ ’  ’ ’   To understand why subprime lending in the auto market and   delinquencies are both up, you have to understand the three key   players in the   market that are driving their growth:   borrowers, car dealers, and lenders. ’ ”   The economy has been growing at a steady clip since the financial   crisis. But that growth hasn’t equally benefited all Americans.   The gap between very wealthy and   Americans and poor   Americans is . ” ”   Rising inequality is partly to blame for the recent uptick in   subprime loans and delinquencies, according to UBS. Since wage   growth has been unequal, the wages of nonwealthy Americans   haven’t kept up with asset price inflation. In other words,   borrowing has become way more expensive for these people. ” ’   As borrowing costs increase, it becomes more difficult for some   Americans to cover expenses like car loans  —   and they may be   worrying about it less, too. ’ ’   Matthew Mish, a strategist at UBS, told Business Insider that   borrowers were less concerned about defaulting. ’ ’   ”The culture has changed,” Mish said. ”People  —   in particular,   younger Americans  —   don’’t think defaulting is as big as a deal as   they once did.” ’ ’   Car lots are full, and with  than willing buyers, car dealers are under   pressure to sell to   buyers. ’ ’   In most cases, it is not the car dealership that underwrites the   loans, but a bank or financial firm. So when the dealership sells   a car, the financial institution is on the hook for the loan. ’ ’  ’ ’   Bill Lally, who sells used Hondas at a dealership in Morris   County, New Jersey, has been in the business since 1984. He told   Business Insider he knew of dealerships where lenders were   approving loans for customers with almost no credit history. ’ ’   ”It doesn’’t matter for car dealers because they don’’t lose any   money if customers don’’t pay back the loans,” Lally said. ”At   some places, literally all you need is a face to get a loan.   Honestly, you probably don’’t even need that.” ’ ’   The pressure that car dealerships feel to move cars off the lot   can lead to fraud. ’ ’   Fraud in the   space can take various forms, but it   essentially boils down to car dealers providing fraudulent   information to lenders to get loans approved for unqualified   borrowers. And according to  a company   that aims to provide lenders with the tools to prevent fraud, the   risk of fraud is increasing. ’ ”   According to Frank McKenna, the chief fraud specialist at   PointPredictive, lenders are often unaware of the fraud, and it’s   the car dealers that are fudging numbers. ” ’   ”They provide lenders with incomes that are inflated to get loans   approved for car buyers, and in most cases, the car buyer has no   idea that this is going on,” he said. ”And the lenders most of   the time don’’t have the tools to detect this fraud.” ’ ”   According to McKenna, 3% of auto loans default without a first   payment being made. That’s on par with the level in the mortgage   market before the financial crisis, he said. He also says that   the overwhelming majority of car dealers are good people. ” ”   Healey has said that in Santander’s case, the bank was aware of   the car dealers’ fraudulent behavior and chose to do business   with them anyway. ” ’   But Santander is a traditional bank. Another group is playing a   big role in subprime lending is nonbank underwriters. ’ ”   These nonbank lenders are firms that can lend cash to borrowers   but do not carry a bank license. They’re not subject to the same   rules or regulatory agencies as traditional banks. ” ’   According to UBS,   originations ”are at their highest   level in a decade, and nonbanks are fueling origination of the     loans.” ’ ’   The nontraditional lenders emerged after the financial crisis to   fill in some of the gaps of traditional banks that curtailed   their subprime lending. ’ ’   ”Our rationale is simply greater regulation of banks coupled with   excessive liquidity supplied from monetary policy has triggered   an unsustainable surge in nonbank lending as lenders ease   underwriting standards to boost market share,” a UBS note said. ’ ’   Many nonbank entities have seen their market share increase, and   many of them are now in the top 20 lenders for auto loans. ’ ’   ”Independent finance companies and credit unions gained the most   ground in 2016, ending the year with 20. 5% and 25. 4% market   share, respectively,” Fitch Ratings . The increase for these finance companies was   especially striking  —   they moved from 18. 9% to 20. 5% in one year. ’ ”   Fitch’s report highlighted the effect that   companies   were having on the market: ” ’  ’ ’   Rising delinquency rates are bad news for Wall Street. ’ ’   When a borrower takes out a loan, the bank or financial firm   behind the loan can either hold onto it or package it with others   in an   security, which the firm sells to investors. ’ ’   With delinquency rates moving higher, the lenders and investors   in an   ABS deals stand to lose. ’ ”   Here’s what Morgan Stanley said about this in a March report: ” ’   The ABS market, in particular, is under pressure in part because   a much bigger chunk of the subprime auto ABS market is now made   up of deep subprime deals, or those that have average FICO scores   of less than 550, according to Morgan Stanley: ’ ’   The most immediate risk of the surge in subprime auto loans and   the rising delinquency rates would be an abrupt tightening of   liquidity to consumers in the near term. ’ ”   In the Fed Board’s January  13. 3% of respondents said   their bank had tightened its credit standards for approving   applications for auto loans. Meanwhile, 18. 6% said that demand   for auto loans had been moderately weaker over the previous three   months. ” ’  ’ ’   Such shocks are never good for the economy, and it could have   ripple effects. ’ ’   ”It will all depend on magnitude  —   how much do bank (and   especially nonbank) lenders tighten lending standards and reduce   the supply of credit,” Mish said. ”This dynamic could exacerbate   the pressure on sector fundamentals and push loss rates higher.” ’ ’   Such tightening would come with a high price tag for the     industry, which employs  according to the US Department of Labor. It could   also spell bad news for the broader economy. ’ ”   Steven Ricchiuto, Mizuho’s chief US economist, said: ” ’   A   scenario could pan out if there were an economic   downturn. ’ ’   ”Right now, we have a relatively good economic backdrop,” Mish   said. ”But if a downturn were to occur, credit availability could   tighten aggressively  —   meaning much higher interest rates or loan   application rejection rates  —   placing people who are already   struggling to repay their loans at much greater risk.” ’ ”   As for Boluch, she won’t have to worry about paying off the rest   of her loan. ” ”   As part of the settlement, the Massachusetts attorney general’s   office will cover the rest of Boluch’s payments, as well as those   of the other 2, 000 or so residents affected. ” ’   ”Things are going to be all right for me,” Boluch said. ”I’’m just   worried about the countless people out there who could find   themselves in the same situation.” ’ ’In late 2012, Kathleen Boluch needed a new car. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’