’  ’ ’   While on a remote mountainside in Tibet,  started to feel ”really, really crappy.” ’ ’   In the   the cloud computing executive turned biohacking   guru trekked to Mount Kailash, considered one of the most sacred   places on earth, because he wanted to learn to meditate from the   Buddhist pilgrims who take ritual walks around the base.   Temperatures dipped to 10 degrees below 0, freezing his CamelBak.   The altitude left him in a brain fog. ’ ’   Later, Asprey says he stumbled into a   mud hut, where   a Tibetan woman gave him a cup of tea blended with yak butter.   After five minutes, a warmth spread over his body. ’ ’   ”I felt a mental clarity come on,” Asprey said. ”Everything just   felt easier.” ’ ’   More than 10 years later, that magical cup of tea is part of the   lore that surrounds Asprey. He has built a     empire around his DIY approach to biology, complete with two     books, conferences, and an executive retreat center   where entrepreneurs pay $15, 000 for access to technologies that   Asprey says will give them a shortcut to success. ’ ’   Still, coffee is his biggest claim to fame. In 2010, Asprey   posted a recipe online for the original Bulletproof coffee  —   a   version of the Tibetan woman’’s tea that blends   butter,   a proprietary ”Brain Octane” oil, and specialty coffee. He claims   its revolutionary combination gives drinkers a ”mental edge,”   satiates hunger for hours, and promotes weight loss. ’ ’   Last year, Bulletproof sold 48 million cups of coffee, according   to Asprey. However, the science behind the brew remains spotty,   and it has    from doctors. ’ ’  ’ ’   When he was starting out with Bulletproof, Asprey mixed and   matched types of butter with hundreds of varieties of tea and   coffee. ’ ’   ”I’’d drink it and think, ’’Did it wake me up? Did it smack me   upside the head? ’’” Asprey said. ’ ’   For seven years he experimented. He landed on three core   ingredients that made him feel good again. ’ ’   Organic,   butter is rich in   fatty acids. These   healthy fats  under the right   conditions. A  suggests that  may also dull hunger, promote   weight loss, and stave off diseases associated with aging. ’ ”   However, there’s no scientific evidence that a pat of butter in   your morning coffee achieves the same effect as a diet made up of   80% saturated fats. ” ’  ’ ”   Bulletproof Coffee uses   coffee beans from farms in   Guatemala and Colombia. They’re processed using a proprietary   method that minimizes mold, though as  in a debunking of   Bulletproof’s claims, there’s no evidence that Asprey’s home brew   has fewer toxins or provides better performance than traditional   coffee. ” ”   The last ingredient in Asprey’s golden recipe is the creatively   titled Brain Octaine oil, which is derived from coconut oil and   converted in the body into fuel for the brain. ” ”   Bulletproof doesn’t sell bottled coffee  —   though Asprey tells   Business Insider it’s in the pipeline  —   instead offering the   three ingredients online and in Whole Foods, CrossFit locations,   and supplement retailers. Purchased together, the ingredients are   $65. (The cost of a  of Brain Octane oil is almost double that of a similar   oil on .) ” ’  ’ ’   Asprey can’’t remember when his   experiment turned into a     cultural phenomenon, between when he posted the recipe   on his blog in 2010 and when the actress Shailene Woodley and   Jimmy Fallon gushed about the brew on ”The Tonight Show” in 2014.   It gathered a cult following slowly, as the recipe spread from   one biohacker to another in online forums, while Asprey traveled   the world sharing the Bulletproof gospel. ’ ’   Asprey, who’’s currently promoting his book, ”Head Strong,” still   drinks Bulletproof coffee every day and says having it for   breakfast outweighs poor decisions he makes later. ’ ’   ”Even if you’’re going to have Taco Bell for lunch,” he says, by   drinking the coffee, ”you seriously improve the quality of your   life all morning long.” ’ ’While on a remote mountainside in Tibet, Dave. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’