’  ’ ”   John Kao’s mother was having a heart attack. ” ’   The     called her son on a Sunday two years ago, Kao   recalls, telling him to come over. By the time he made the     drive, the paramedics were there to take her to the   hospital. ’ ”   From there, she was given stents to prop open her arteries. She   spent the following six days in the hospital, where she got the   best care, Kao told Business Insider. But the months that   followed weren’t as smooth. ” ’   ”When she got discharged was when things got scary,” Kao said. ’ ”   That, Kao said, was because the hospital didn’t communicate with   his mother’s other doctors  —   the ones in charge of her primary   care and certain specialties. ” ’   ”When she got discharged, no one knew anything,” he said. ”In   fact, the drugs prescribed to her inside the hospital didn’’t   match or couldn’’t work with the drugs she was taking outside the   hospital.” ’ ”   Kao had to act as his mother’s caretaker, having conversations   with her   doctor and organizing visits from nurses   while she was recovering. While she is doing OK now, he said,   there were a few months that were frightening. ” ’   ”When we’’re really sick, nobody talks to each other,” he said.   ”There’’s no coordination. That’’s where all the money is.” ’ ”   It’s what Kao is now trying to prevent from happening to other   elderly people. ” ”   Kao’s company, Alignment Healthcare, provides     plans and services designed to help coordinate healthcare for the   Medicare Advantage market. When seniors in the US turn 65, they   can choose to be part of either traditional Medicare or Medicare   Advantage, which is operated through private insurers like   Alignment and often provides additional healthcare benefits. ” ’   Using the same example, if his mother had been a member of one of   Alignment’’s health plans, one of Alignment’’s doctors would see   her in the hospital, then serve as her ”concierge” to make sure   all of her doctors in and out of the hospital were on the same   page. That coordination creates a ”safety net” for people coming   out of emergency medical care, Kao said. ’ ’   The concept is something called ”  medical home,”   a model in which primary care is more of a . The   idea is that by building health plans that connect the care   patients get in those emergency situations with the care they get   when they leave the hospital, insurers can avoid higher costs   that could occur if patients end up back in the hospital because   they weren’’t getting the right   care or preventive   treatments. ’ ”   Alignment is already carving out a piece of the     market. In two years, the company has racked up   —   a large number but still tiny   compared with the roughly $170 billion the US government paid to   Medicare Advantage plans in 2015. In March, Alignment raised $115   million from the   firm Warburg Pincus, which brings   the company’s total funding to $240 million. It covers 50, 000   people in California, North Carolina, and Florida. ” ”   If someone 65 and older wants a Medicare Advantage plan in a   state where Alignment operates, he or she can join an Alignment   plan and pay the monthly premium to be part of it. Here’s what   the person gets out of it: ” ”   Alignment’s business model differs depending on the partnerships   it strikes up. In California, it is structured as a     health plan, so if you wanted to opt into a Medicare Advantage   account, you could pick Alignment as an alternative to any other   plan that’s offered. ” ”   Elsewhere, Alignment acts as more of a   resource for   Medicare Advantage plans. In North Carolina, Alignment is working   with FirstCarolinaCare, a health insurer that’s part of the   FirstHealth of the Carolinas healthcare network.   FirstCarolinaCare is the one running the plan and receiving the   payments from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. ” ”   The insurer then pays Alignment a percentage of that to run its   Medicare Advantage program, including making sure patients are   getting preventive health services and are showing up for   appointments at Alignment’s clinic when needed. For now, the   North Carolina program, which launched in January, is operating   only in Wake County, where Raleigh is located, with the option to   expand later. ” ’   ”From our perspective it was a good business opportunity to   expand Medicare Advantage,” Craig Humphrey, the president of   FirstCarolinaCare, told Business Insider. ’ ’   Alignment is working with just the Medicare Advantage plans for   now, but the hope is to expand to the Medicaid markets and then   to commercial insurance markets. ’ ’  ’ ”   Medicare Advantage, the   side of Medicare, has   been steadily growing. As of 2016,  were in one of these plans. Basic   Medicare is covered through Social Security, and people have the   option to pay to add services like   coverage.   With Medicare, you’re also able to see any doctor you’d like. ” ’   Medicare Advantage, on the other hand, works more like private   insurance does for those under 65. It is designed to allow people   to shop around and choose among different plans. The plans often   come with added benefits, and they tend to provide comprehensive   healthcare coverage. The US government in turn pays the insurers   a certain amount for each person who is covered. The hope with   Medicare Advantage is to cut down on Medicare spending by   shifting some of the risk onto insurers. ’ ’   But to do that, plans on Medicare Advantage can be more limiting,   Carolyn Long Engelhard, a   expert and professor at   the University of Virginia School of Medicine, told Business   Insider. Unlike Medicare, not every doctor is included in a   Medicare Advantage network, so seniors may be left having to   switch their providers to stay in network. ’ ’   And people tend to leave Medicare Advantage for Medicare when   they get sicker,  suggesting   that Medicare Advantage plans could be incentivized to get rid of   members once their costs get to be too high. ’ ”   Still, the plans are growing in popularity, and they’ve caught   the interest of . ” ”   Insurance isn’t the easiest thing to disrupt. Startups that have   tried to find new ways to address insurance have been hit with   major setbacks. Oscar, the $2 billion health insurer, chose to   pull out of some public healthcare exchanges . And Clover Health, a   startup that’s   also in the Medicare Advantage space, had a net loss of $34. 6   million in 2016, . ” ’   But Kao thinks Alignment can make it work by working with   existing health insurers and hospital systems. ’ ’   ”We’’re trying to disrupt the industry from inside out,” Kao said. ’ ”John Kao’s mother was having a heart attack. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’