’  ’ ’   The Cleveland police urged a man who they said posted video of   himself on Facebook killing an elderly man on Sunday to turn   himself in to authorities. ’ ’   Officials in the Ohio city said they were looking for Steve   Stephens in connection with the one confirmed killing but had   found no evidence to support what the police said was a claim he   made in the video of having killed more than a dozen other   people. ’ ’   ”Everybody is out there looking for Steve,” Calvin Williams, the   Cleveland police chief, told a news conference, where he joined   Mayor Frank Jackson in asking Stephens to turn himself in. They   said Stephens might be driving a white or   Ford   Fusion and that he was armed and dangerous. ’ ’   ”We want this to end with as much peace as we can bring to this   right now,” Williams said, adding that the police knew of no   other victims. ’ ’   Late Sunday night, the Cleveland police issued an     warrant for Stephens and warned that he could   have crossed state lines into Pennsylvania, New York, Indiana, or   Michigan. ’ ’’ ’   The police said Stephens used Facebook to post video of him   killing the man, whom the police identified as    Robert   Godwin Sr. Stephens is not believed to have known Godwin, the   police said. ’ ”   The world’s largest online social network, used by more than 1. 2   billion people every day, condemned the video. ” ’   ”This is a horrific crime and we do not allow this kind of   content on Facebook,” a representative for the company said. ”We   work hard to keep a safe environment on Facebook and are in touch   with law enforcement in emergencies when there are direct threats   to physical safety.” ’ ’   It is not the first time a serious crime has been posted on   Facebook. In January, four black people in Chicago were accused   of attacking an    disabled white man and broadcasting   the assault on the service while making antiwhite racial taunts. ’ ’   A month later, the suspects pleaded not guilty to assaulting the   man. ’ ’   (Editing by Chris Michaud and Michael Perry) ’ ’The Cleveland police urged a man who they said. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’