’  ’ ’   Newsmax CEO Chris Ruddy, a   confidant to President   Donald Trump, told Business Insider in an interview that the   president wouldn’’t repeat his ”mistakes” regarding   healthcare. ’ ’   Ruddy was a staunch critic of the American Health Care Act, the   Republican plan to replace the Affordable Care Act. The AHCA was   pulled from the House floor in March when it became clear that it   did not have enough votes to pass. ’ ’   ”He’’s a pragmatic guy, so he’’s going to do things that work,”   Ruddy said of Trump. ”He’’s getting to know all the players and   the processes. And, he’’s probably the quickest learner I’’ve ever   met on things. And he doesn’’t usually make the same mistake   twice. So I don’’t see him making the same mistakes again.” ’ ’   Ruddy said Trump ”invested a lot in” House Speaker Paul Ryan, who   was one of the architects of the AHCA. ’ ’   But although Ruddy said he doesn’’t see Trump repeating his   blunders, the Newsmax CEO said Trump would ”still like to get” a   version of the AHCA passed. ’ ’’ ’   ”I’’ve talked to him about it,” Ruddy said. ”He thinks it’’s great   savings for the future tax reform. I personally think it’’s not a   great plan. It’’s not consistent with his vision for healthcare in   America. And, I think it’’s deadly politically.” ’ ’   Ruddy predicted that observers might see just how toxic the   healthcare plan was ”in Georgia,” making note of the . He added that the fallout from the deeply   unpopular AHCA could be felt in the 2018 congressional races. ’ ’   After the health care plan was pulled from the House floor, Ruddy   wrote a piece for Newsmax  ”Trump Should Ditch   Freedom Caucus, Seek Bipartisan Plan.”  ’ ’   ”The most significant problem is that [the AHCA] doesn’’t   fulfill Trump’’s own vision of  while removing the   onerous requirements of Obamacare,” Ruddy wrote. ”Clearly, Trump   has been acting in good faith, but he shouldn’’t trust House   Republicans. The president should be sticking to his guns on   healthcare reform. He did so in the campaign, helping him win   Democratic states like Wisconsin, Michigan, and Pennsylvania.” ’ ’   Ruddy called for Trump to fix the existing healthcare law, not   repeal and replace it. ’ ’   Asked if he discussed his idea with Trump, Ruddy said Trump was   provided with his piece. ’ ’   ”We have talked about healthcare and he hasn’’t said, ’’Oh, I read   this or that and I’’m going to comment on it,’’” Ruddy said. ”But   he was given the piece, I shared it with him, and we had a couple   of discussions about healthcare  —   several, in fact  —   so that’’s   it.” ’ ” who is also a member of     Trump’s    club,  after the     president delivered his February address to a joint session of     Congress. Ruddy, who has known Trump for more than a decade,     says he speaks often with the president.   ” ’Newsmax CEO Chris Ruddy, a   confidant. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’