’Volvo is looking to China for the future of its electric cars.’ ’The carmaker said Wednesday that it plans to produce its first fully electric car in China and will export it around the world.’ ’The Swedish automaker, which is owned by the Chinese company Geely, is making a big bet on electric vehicles.’ ’In 2015, Volvo launched its XC90, which was its first vehicle with a hybrid powertrain. And in April 2016, the company vowed that it would sell one million electrified cars by 2025.’ ”Volvo’s first fully electric car is slated to go into production in 2019. Here’s everything we know about the car so far.” ’Mats Anderson, a senior director of electric propulsion systems, said in February that its modular car platforms will support 100 kWh battery packs, according to a report by . ’ ’ ’ ”To help put that into perspective, Tesla’s Model S 100D has a range of 335 miles per charge, according to EPA estimates. ” ’Lex Kerssemakers, CEO of Volvo Car USA, said in March that he was pushing for its first electric car to fall in the $40, 000 range. ’ ’The move makes sense considering more affordable,   electric cars are coming to market in a similar timeframe. ’ ’Tesla is planning to launch its first   car, the  by the end of this year, but the majority of its   are expected to arrive in 2018. And  is coming in 2020. ’ ’Volvo previously said that its first electric car would be built on a larger platform, like the one used for the S90. However, the company has shifted away from that plan. ’ ’Volvo said in a press statement on Wednesday that its new electric car will be based on its Compact Modular Architecture (CMA) which is the platform the carmaker is using for its smaller   vehicles. ’ ’However, it is not clear whether Volvo will actually use the CMA platform for its first electric car, or if it will introduce a new platform that is even smaller. ’ ’ ’ ’Volvo will also build an   vehicle on its Scalable Product Architecture (SPA) platform, which is the same platform the company used for its   XC90 SUV and its   sedan. ’ ’Volvo is looking to China for the future of its. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’