’  ’ ’   President Donald Trump has spent more than a quarter of his early   presidency at his    club in Florida. ’ ”   And with Trump spending weekends both hosting world dignitaries   or simply unwinding and playing golf at his resort, a critical   source has emerged for news on Trump’s whereabouts: Instagram. ” ’   On the ”  ” geotag on the   site, club   members and attendees have posted photos providing public details   of Trump’’s days that otherwise may have gone completely   unnoticed outside of the   Floridians who saw them   firsthand. ’ ’   The photos  —   whether taken of prominent guests or Trump family   members visiting what the president calls the   ”Southern White House,” of the surroundings, or of Trump   himself  —   show moments that even those in the protective press   pool assigned to cover the president have, at times, not been   privy to document themselves. ’ ”   In total,  at his Florida club, where he’s hosted guests like   Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and Chinese President Xi   Jinping. ” ’   The weekend with Abe featured . They included Trump looking into the camera with   his head on his hand as aides behind him stood as both US and   Japanese officials were coordinating a response to a North Korean   missile launch. A   crisis was taking place, and   the response was being discussed in full view of the many club   members and guests assembled in a dining area. ’ ’   Eric Trump, the president’’s son, said    ”has been a very   effective tool for [my father] to go down and get to know   somebody while not sitting  —   no different to you wanting to sit   next to me on this couch today  —   not sitting across a wooden   partition, which instantly makes a relationship more strenuous.” ’ ”   He compared the resort to President George W. Bush’s Crawford,   Texas, ranch. ” ’   ”Bush brought foreign leaders from all over the world [there],”   he said. ”He would go down to the ranch and they would drive a   truck around and they would have fun and they would eat and that   was his way of bonding.” ’ ’   An Instagram spokesperson told Business Insider it could not   provide data on whether use of the    geotag had   increased since Trump was inaugurated on January 20. ’ ’ ’ ’ Eric Trump posed with a couple of guests at the club   in  . ’ ’ ’ ’ A guest posed with boxing promoter Don King, a   controversial Trump supporter who was barred from speaking at the   Republican National Convention, in early March. King has made   multiple appearances at    since Trump won the November   election. ’ ’ ’ ’ Trump spoke at a    luncheon before club   members in  . ’ ’ ’ ’ In late February, conservative columnist and Fox News   pundit Charles Krauthammer, visiting    posed with a   guest. ’ ’ ’ ’ King appeared with a guest during his early March visit   to the West Palm Beach club. ’ ’ ’ ” A    guest took a photo of Trump’s place   setting at a dining table in  . ” ’ ’ ’ Trump was documented making an appearance at a       wedding in early February. An onlooker wrote:   ”The guy that Alec Baldwin plays on SNL made a guest appearance   at #FalkLindnerWedding.” ’ ’ ’ ’ A frequent sighting on the    geotag, guests and   those near the club taking photos with the presidential fleet of   vehicles. Here’’s one man taking a photo with ”The Beast” in   early February. ’ ’ ’ ’ Trump mingled with guests during a February   visit. ’ ’ ’ ” The president and first lady Melania Trump took a   photo with a    guest during Trump’s first visit to the   club during his presidency in early February. This trip featured   his meeting with the Japanese prime minister. ” ’ ’ ” And here’s Melania with a guest during that same   weekend. ” ’ ’ ’ White House chief of staff Reince Priebus was there, as   well, taking a photo with a guest. ’ ’ ’ ’ Another guest took a photo with the Trumps, calling   it the ”best birthday weekend ever! !!” ’ ’ ’ ’ An onlooker caught Trump waving from his motorcade   during his most recent trip. ’ ’ ’ ” Here’s a shot of Trump speaking to guests during   an Easter visit. ” ’ ’ ” And here’s Trump taking a photo with a guest and a child   during that trip. ” ’ ’ ’ This man got pretty close to Air Force One last week   in West Palm Beach. ’ ’ ’ ’ Someone else had their photo taken with ”The Beast”   last week. ’ ’ ’ ’ A few people held up a ”Trump 2020” sign with   ”Deport ILLEGAL CRIMINALS . .. Before they become LEGAL LIBERALS”   written on it. The photo, taken a handful of weeks ago, was at   the    club. ’ ’ ’ ” Here’s Trump opening up the door of his van just outside   his Florida club last month. ” ’ ’ ’ Trump mingled with onlookers outside of his   van in   near   . ’ ’ ’ ’ Notable Republican financier Nick Loeb with Vice   President Mike Pence last month. ’ ’President Donald Trump has spent more than a. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’