’  ’ ”   The House Intelligence Committee said on Friday that it had   invited three former officials with knowledge of Russia’s   interference in the US election to testify in an open hearing in   May, over a month after the committee’s chairman first scrapped   the session. ” ’   ”Yesterday, the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence   sent two letters related to its investigation into Russian active   measures during the 2016 election campaign,” Emily Hytha, a   spokeswoman for Republican Rep. Mike Conaway, said on Friday. ’ ’   ”The first letter was sent to FBI Director James Comey and   National Security Advisor Admiral Mike Rogers, inviting them to   appear at a closed hearing on May 2, 2017,” Hytha said. ”The   second letter was sent to former CIA Director John Brennan,   Director of National Intelligence James Clapper and former Deputy   Attorney General Sally Yates inviting them to appear at an open   hearing to be scheduled after May 2nd.” ’ ”   The letters appear to mark the end of an impasse that emerged   late last month, when the committee’s chairman, Devin Nunes,   accused Democrats of not signing  before the   committee in a closed session. Democrats said they did not   support substituting an open hearing with a closed one and had   been pushing to reschedule the open session with Yates, Brennan,   and Clapper that Nunes had scrapped. ” ’   ”The chairman requested that in lieu of a public hearing we have   a closed hearing with James Comey and Mike Rogers,” Democratic   Rep. Eric Swalwell, who sits on the committee,  late last month. ”I did   not support having one substitute for another.” ’ ’  ’ ’   In the end, the committee agreed to hold both the closed session   with Comey and Rogers that Republicans wanted and the open   hearing with Yates, Brennan, and Clapper that Democrats   advocated. ’ ”   The compromise is arguably a bigger victory for the Democrats,   however, who have been eager to publicly question Yates about her   knowledge of former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn’s   relationship with Russia. ” ”   Yates was fired as acting attorney general after refusing to   enforce Trump’s first executive order on immigration in late   January. Earlier that month, she reportedly traveled to the White   House  that   Flynn could be vulnerable to Russian blackmail. ” ”   Interest in Yates’ testimony grew even more last month after The   Washington Post reported that the White House  her from testifying   publicly. The White House has denied the charge. ” ’   Brennan has also come back into the spotlight recently  that he established a   counterintelligence task force last summer to examine whether the   Trump campaign had improper contact with the Kremlin. The   investigation was based on intelligence that was  by foreign intelligence   agencies beginning in late 2015,  earlier this month. ’ ’   Clapper’’s testimony, meanwhile, will be of interest to those who   feel that Trump’’s Russia ties have been overblown. The former   director of national intelligence  in early March that he had seen ”no   evidence” of collusion between the Trump campaign and the   Kremlin. ’ ’  ’ ”   Nunes a few weeks ago  from the committee’s   investigation into Trump’s ties to Russia. He handed the probe   over to Conaway in early April amid questions about his ability   to lead an unbiased investigation. ” ”   Nunes, who served on Trump’s transition team,  last month for   his decision to bypass the rest of his committee and brief Trump   on classified   documents that he said showed that   members of Trump’s transition team had been swept up in   government surveillance. ” ”   Reports  he obtained those documents from   White House officials  —   despite Nunes’ earlier claims that he got   them from an intelligence source  —   fueling speculation that   administration officials had orchestrated the stunt to distract   the press from Comey’s revelation that the FBI was investigating   whether various Trump associates had ties to Russia. ” ”   The committee’s ranking Democrat, Rep. Adam Schiff, criticized   Nunes for bypassing the committee, calling on him to either share   the documents with his colleagues or recuse himself. ” ’   ”I don’’t know how to conduct a credible investigation if you have   even one person, let alone the chairman, of a committee saying,   ’’I’’ve seen evidence, but I won’’t share it with anyone else,’’”   Schiff told CNN late last month. ”We can’’t conduct an   investigation this way. That’’s not sustainable. It’’s not   credible.” ’ ’The House Intelligence Committee said on Friday. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’