’  ’ ’   WASHINGTON  —   This year’s spring meetings of the International   Monetary Fund are like one big therapy session for the global   financial elites, and everyone is venting about the same issue:   Donald Trump. ’ ’   After all the IMF is the ultimate ”globalist” institution derided   by Trump and his     supporters and   advisers. Trump has already ditched the     TransPacific Partnership (TPP) trade deal with 11 other nations   in the region, is threatening to rip up other accords like the     Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) and has even hinted   he may try to  ’ ’   On the sidelines of the meeting, economists and policymakers   wondered what Trump might do next on trade. The Wall Street types   who also flock to the event seem especially freaked out about   whether his stock    after an   embarrassing flop on healthcare.  ’ ’   Yet here was IMF Managing Director Cristine Lagarde trying to put   a brave face on the whole thing: ”I have every reason to believe   that we will make progress, that we will cooperate all together.” ’ ’   The statement came just days after Trump signed a “Buy American,   Hire American” executive order that pretty much runs directly   against the open trade credo that the IMF and the United States   itself have championed for the last 80 years. ’ ’’ ’   Meanwhile, the Fund itself pushed back against Trumpism in its    The report   directly warned against Trump’s plans to slash tax rates for   corporations. ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’   But again, some top officials tried to downplay the extent of   disagreements. ’ ’  ’ ’   Germany has been one of many direct targets of Trump’s   accusations of unfair trading behavior. His key economic advisor   on trade, Peter Navarro,  to gain a trade advantage, ignoring the salient   fact that the country’s membership in the eurozone means monetary   policy is set by the European Central Bank not the German   Bundesbank. ’ ’   Amid the noise, it’s important to recall that the IMF, set up in   the   period, was devised and built by the United States   and in large part to help American firms succeed internationally.   The notion that it is somehow standing in the way of US interests   is ludicrous on its face. ’ ’  ’ ’WASHINGTON  —   This year’s spring meetings of. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’