Six of the world’s largest and most prestigious marathons  —   in Tokyo, Boston, London, Berlin, Chicago and New York City  —   band together and call themselves the World Marathon Majors. Some people try to run all six in the same year. Dean Bell is among them. He spent last week in Amsterdam attending to his job as a partner at the auditing firm KPMG before flying back to New York to finish his sixth marathon of the year  —   the year he turned 40. He was followed in Central Park on Sunday by a trickle of other   finishers, like the sommelier Brian Cronin, who has completed 42 in all. They came from Italy and Spain, China and Denmark, amounting to 1, 200 runners over all. They were led by Michael Wardian, an ultra runner so prolific that for him, finishing the six majors was akin to a 5K on the local circuit for an ordinary runner. Wardian finished the New York City Marathon in 45th place, and he set a record for average pace running the majors in a calendar year  —   a little less than 2 hours 31 minutes. Sunday’s race was Wardian’s ninth marathon of 2016. He supplemented them with 10 ultra marathons. He is 42. “I know it’s not typical, but with every race I do, I’ve just always wanted to see if it’s possible,” Wardian said. “I’ve never wanted someone else to dictate what I’m capable of. ” If Wardian and Bell are any indication, people who do this kind of thing have some qualities in common  —   a penchant for the extreme being central to all. They archive their races in spreadsheets (Wardian) and résumés (Bell). They get up at 4:45 a. m. and go for their runs in the suburbs (Arlington, Va. for Wardian Greenwich, Conn. for Bell) supplementing them with a lunchtime run at work in the city when they can. Both are in their early 40s, and they balance their running around their families: in this case, wives and two young children. Both issue claims that they are not as unusual as they sound. “Of course I know all the running is, on some level, crazy, but mostly I’m an ordinary guy,” Bell said. “And there are worse vices. ” Wardian also maintains that his lifestyle is largely ordinary, just augmented by a marathon or   every other weekend or so. “I think I’m a pretty normal  —   well, some people would say maybe not  —   but I have a family, a   job, I take my kids to Cub Scouts and soccer practice, I’m part of civic organizations, I do all this stuff normal people do, but at the same time I don’t think we need to be limited by what is considered normal behavior,” Wardian said. “I just have a really incredible interest in establishing about what’s possible for me and then shattering that. ” Certainly, the schedule is unforgiving. A marathon in Berlin in late September. For October, Chicago. And then a month later, the New York City Marathon. All very fast. Bell has been running for only a little over five years. He gave himself a year to plan the logistics around the races but did not change his training. Since he began running marathons in 2011, he has amassed 20, including Sunday’s. He tends to run his races between 3:10 and 3:15, save for a run this year in Berlin with a bad back. For him, it is a call to constantly push the boundaries of his limitations. “You start with ‘I want to run a marathon,’ then you want to run Boston, then it’s ‘I want to run a certain time,’ then I wanted to run the majors,” Bell said. “As we enter this stage of life, we’re missing competition, it’s us against the clock, but that’s the biggest opponent you can have, yourself. ” Wardian ran his first marathon in 1996 so he could qualify for the Boston Marathon, and he quickly moved on to   races from there. When he decided to improve his speed, he qualified for the 2004, 2008 and 2012 men’s Olympic trials, still relishing the day when he led the first 10K of the 2008 trials through Times Square, immortalized in a widely circulated photograph. Now he is focusing on frequency and longer distances. Wardian was a varsity lacrosse player at Michigan State before he began running his junior year. He and his wife, Jennifer, who met at a fraternity party in Maryland, accommodate each other’s training needs. When watching the kids in the morning, he will run on the treadmill at home while she goes to a Jazzercise class. She was fine with his running 48 miles through the Grand Canyon for their 12th anniversary last month  —   but she has her limitations. “She lays the law down,” he said. “I’m not allowed to go do Everest until the kids are 18. ” Despite an unusual gluttony, and talent, for both volume and speed, Wardian has remained largely   for the entirety of his 20 years of running except for August 2012. He developed five stress fractures in his pelvis and five hernias, all at once, and was sidelined for two months. (He attributed the injuries to the time his youngest son developed epilepsy, when he and his wife slept no more than   intervals.) “Normally,” he said, “I sleep four hours, and I’m fine. ” The Wardians take their children to his races around the world  —   they have been to 14 countries on four continents, waiting for their father to finish a   race through the Alps or the Outback. Wardian follows the wholesome lifestyle common to many ultra runners, having refrained from eating chicken since he contracted salmonella poisoning from a   meal in college. From there, he stopped eating fish and then went vegan, aside from a fondness for egg whites and honey. Some friends he met at a race in Japan take a rice steamer with them for prerace meals, and he has taken up the habit of eating white rice and honey for breakfast and, before dinner, visiting sushi restaurants, where he will eat   rolls. He drinks “twice every 18 months” and counts an   maker and a salad company among his sponsors. “I’m one of those guys,” he said. “But I think it helps me in recovery. It’s clean energy. ” Wardian spends his days as an international ship broker, arranging oceangoing transportation for food aid. Some of his   competitors have been on the receiving end of his efforts: At a dinner for Wardian’s clients, the former marathon champion Paul Tergat spoke of how he would receive the shipments while growing up in Kenya and how they changed his life. (Wardian contracted the ship Maersk Alabama, which was hijacked by Somali pirates in 2009, learning the news only when he returned from running the weeklong Marathon Des Sables through the Sahara and regained phone access.) Wardian and Bell finished their streaks Sunday despite the logistical impediments bound to affect races that happen almost every week or month. For Bell, he had managed to run each time under his Boston qualifying standard  —   until Berlin, where he was hampered by a back injury. Wardian’s trips were wrought with timing hurdles: He would continue running after the race back to his lodgings to collect his luggage and go straight to the airport, often still in racing clothes. Bell’s family watched the race at 102nd Street and First Avenue, a block from where they used to live. They celebrated after the race with friends who live in their old building but headed back to the suburbs before it grew too late. He had a 7 a. m. flight to Washington the next day. Wardian said he would go to Las Vegas next weekend. He has another marathon record in mind: running the fastest one ever while dressed as Elvis.