I knew it would be bad the only question was how bad. After waiting outside a surgical ward at Jersey City Medical Center for what seemed like an eternity, the neurosurgeon emerged, introduced herself and explained that blood clots were forming in my husband’s brain, a result of multiple fractures to his skull. Even after an extensive operation, internal swelling and pressure on his brain were building to levels “inconsistent with life,” the doctor explained. To survive the night, he needed another operation. Less than 24 hours earlier, on Dec. 13, 2014, Steve  —   my husband and the father of our two young children  —   left our Brooklyn apartment for a networking trip in Atlantic City with four colleagues. Throughout the day, he sent me text updates, including a goofy selfie intended to amuse our daughter, then 3 years old. Around 6 a. m. I received a call from two of the colleagues who had been with him in Atlantic City. Steve had been in an accident, they said, and I should call the emergency room. They had been with him all day, but couldn’t explain what happened to him. At the hospital, I began to piece together the severity of Steve’s condition. The trauma staff members told me that his face was so disfigured and bruised that they had difficulty determining his race. His doctors concluded that he had been assaulted. (The story of his surgery, and the mystery of his injuries, were described in an article in The Atlantic last spring.) After that second brain surgery, his neurosurgeon, Dr. Lauren Schwartz, returned to tell me she had to remove significant chunks of Steve’s frontal lobe and temporal lobe  —   and that he might not be able to speak or function normally ever again. Even if he managed to emerge from the medically induced coma with his faculties intact, Steve had a long and arduous road ahead, most likely measured in years, with no guarantee that he would return to his former self. Many victims of a brain trauma become overwhelmed by anger, depression and frustration about the slow pace of their recovery and the memory of who they used to be. The severity of Steve’s trauma  —   and the apparent violence that caused it  —   were   triggers for those emotions. But after Steve’s initial surgeries, I became increasingly confident about his chances for a successful recovery. “If I know one absolute truth about my husband, it is that he rises above and exceeds expectations,” I wrote in an email to Dr. Schwartz. In retrospect, a reflexive coping mechanism may have been kicking in  —   any reasonable analysis should have drastically lowered my expectations. But I believed I had reason for optimism. Steve’s brain was engineered to move forward. As a gifted mathematician, he saw the world as a series of equations to be solved. And like an elite athlete, he didn’t handicap goals with unhelpful emotions. Steve had been wiring his brain at an early age, partly out of necessity. Raised in a house beset by mental illness, he had to learn to protect himself from harmful emotions and focus on goals. It served him well academically, as he skipped a grade in middle school and went to college at 16. It was a risky social and emotional step for someone so young, but he graduated with honors and was recruited by Goldman Sachs as a programmer. I have always been drawn to his   wit and his Olympic reasoning abilities. In an argument, Steve could keep his head while others lost theirs. I didn’t always appreciate his economy of emotion. In 2008, when our first child, Sophia, was stillborn at 39 weeks and four days, I carried around her memory, nearly crippled by the weight of the loss. Steve appeared set on moving forward from the very beginning. In the delivery room, I asked Steve to hold Sophia, which he did, but he quickly returned her to the bassinet, seemingly signaling his intent to move on. Over time, my anguish turned to resentment over how he could forge ahead, focus on his work and not share my pain. For years, even when we went on to have two healthy children, I still felt compelled to carry the emotional weight of Sophia’s memory. But after Steve’s horrific injuries, I knew I had to try to learn to do for my husband what I had been unable do for myself: keep my brain from dwelling on tragedy. Almost two years later, I can still allow myself to become furious about what happened to my husband, still an unsolved mystery. I want to know what happened and who was responsible and have the perpetrators admit their guilt. A part of me wants to linger daily on the unknowns. But Steve inspired me to follow his lead, as I witnessed his unrelenting drive to return to his former self  —   and his refusal to be consumed by what happened to him and why. One afternoon, a few days after he awoke from his coma, Steve received a visit from a former colleague he had not seen in more than a decade. Still suffering   amnesia, Steve couldn’t speak coherently or remember my name. But when his colleague entered the room, Steve’s eyes widened. He wiggled upright and offered a handshake. It was a moment I celebrated for days. Weeks later, with parts of his speech returning, Steve made another leap when he gestured for a pen and notepad. He wanted to jot down the conversations he was having with the nursing staff. Jagged lines were all he could manage, but he remained unbowed, asking me to transcribe the conversations regarding his recovery plan. As the pace of Steve’s progress accelerated  —   in words and movements  —   I became consumed with planning for the next steps in his recovery, making arrangements for his rehabilitation, staging our apartment for his return. Looking backward was a luxury I could not afford. When Steve finally came home in early March, every daily event  —   going to the grocery store, walking the kids to school, reading the news, listening to our favorite pop songs  —   became a learning opportunity, a chance to regain words and memories that had been temporarily lost. At dinner, the kids played word games with Steve, each taking turns to contribute to a category. One evening, when the topic was zoo animals, Steve couldn’t locate the word lion. Instead of expressing frustration or embarrassment, he described its color, sound and habitat. When our daughter blurted the answer, Steve’s face lit up. “Yes, you got it!” he shouted, slyly giving the game a new dimension. We were witnessing Steve do what was second nature to him: finding the path forward. Researchers still have a lot to learn about what causes some victims to swiftly recover from brain traumas and others to stall. Steve’s doctors marvel that he is doing so well. His   determination may have helped. Within 12 months of his   trip to Atlantic City, Steve had secured a job as a business analyst with an international bank. Without any visible scars or speech impairments today, he doesn’t show any signs of brain trauma. Indeed, even with portions of his brain gone, he has somehow retained his intelligence and career skills, his ability to be a loving husband and father, and the core elements of his identity that let his lifelong habit of looking forward shine through. He’s taught me that true tragedy is letting misfortune rob you of the life and love you have. It’s a lesson I try to keep in my head as nourishment for my heart.