’  ’ ”   On Tuesday,  to withhold funding   from sanctuary cities, places that refuse to cooperate with ICE   and other authorities enforcing the nation’s immigration   laws.  ” ’   ’ ”   It’s the latest development in the fight between some cities that   have decided to stand with their unauthorized immigrant   communities, and authorities that enforce the nation’s   immigration laws.  ” ’   Jersey City, home to an estimated 22, 000 unauthorized immigrants,   has taken steps to strengthen and codify its sanctuary status,   openly defiant of immigration officials.  ’ ’   But even then, in many cases, Jersey City may still be powerless   to protect undocumented immigrants. ’ ’   Nearly 10 years after a woman from the Philippines settled in New   Jersey, there was a knock on her door. ’ ’   She had come to Jersey City in part because that’’s where   immigrants have settled for more than 400 years. It’’s a city so   synonymous with immigrants that, back in 1996, it declared itself   a ”sanctuary” for unauthorized US residents. ’ ’   But on this January morning in 2016, the woman, who spoke with   Business Insider on the condition of anonymity, was about to   experience the limits of a place declaring itself a sanctuary   city. ’ ’   It was before sunrise. She had just fallen asleep,   having come back recently from her job on the overnight shift. ’ ”   The woman’s sister let two men into their apartment. They were   from US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, and a moment later   they were in her bedroom. ” ’   ”I thought it was just a dream,” the woman told Business Insider. ’ ’   The agents showed her a photo of herself. There was no denying   it. She had been a permanent resident but lost that status after   being convicted and serving time for possessing   methamphetamines. So they took her away to the local ICE   headquarters and then placed her in Hudson County jail, only a   few miles from her home. ’ ’   Jersey City, in the shadow of the Statue of Liberty, is said to   be . Forty percent    is  . Its streets are home to   immigrants from Italy, Cuba, the Philippines, Poland, India,   Ireland, the Dominican Republic, Africa, the Middle East, and   Asia. ’ ’  ’ ”   Jersey City has been a place for immigrants since before there   was a United States, dating all the way back to when the Dutch   settled the area in the 1600s. Tens of millions of immigrants   passed through Ellis Island, which is within the city’s borders,   and many stuck around in Jersey City. ” ’   All this at least partly explains the actions of Jaime Vazquez in   1996, when the US was tightening its immigration policies,   denying public assistance to immigrants and calling on government   employees to report anyone they suspected of being in the country   illegally. Vazquez, an outspoken,   councilman from   Puerto Rico, wrote up a resolution to declare the city a ”safe   haven” for immigrants and to discourage city employees from   reporting people suspected of violating immigration laws. ’ ’   ”It’’s   to have people living in fear because some   social worker is going to report them to immigration. That’’s   almost ” Vazquez told the North Jersey newspaper The   Record at the time. ”Some people say that’’s an extreme   comparison. OK, maybe. But the Nazis started somewhere.” ’ ’   By passing a resolution that declared the city would not help   enforce federal immigration efforts, Jersey City had become a   sanctuary city. ’ ’   ”The resolution embodies what the Statue of Liberty stands for:   compassion, liberty and freedom,” Vazquez, who died last year,   told The Philadelphia Inquirer. ’ ’     City council president Tom DeGise was equally   emphatic. ’ ’   ”We wanted to make a statement that, in our ethnically diverse   city, we didn’’t want any city agency ferreting out illegal   immigrants,” . ”My job as a   school teacher is to educate the children in front of me, not be   in a position of saying, ’’Are you an illegal immigrant? ’’” ’ ”   But, as Jersey City’s current government recently learned,   symbolic gestures can do only so much, and now DeGise is on the   other side. ” ’   As Jersey City was first calling itself a sanctuary in 1996,   nearby  under a   intergovernmental service   agreement. As a contractor for the US Immigration and   Naturalization Service, Hudson County, where Jersey City is   located, began providing housing, safekeeping, subsistence, and   other services for INS detainees in exchange for $77 per detainee   per detained day. ’ ”   DeGise has a different job now and a different perspective along   with it. He’s Hudson County’s executive, and in this role he says   he supports the county’s efforts to help ICE detain unauthorized   immigrants. ” ’  ’ ’   It was under his leadership, in 2009, that the  to honor immigration detainers,   which are requests that local authorities hold people suspected   of violating immigration laws until ICE can pick them up and   detain them. The agreement also allows the county to identify   noncitizens who are subject to removal from the US.  to $110 a day from $90. ’ ’   The 287( g) agreement essentially deputizes three corrections   officers from Hudson County to function as immigration agents and   allows them to interrogate, charge, and detain any immigrant   already at the Hudson County jail. ’ ”   When people are arrested for indictable offenses in Jersey City,   their fingerprints are scanned and sent to the FBI, which then   shares them with ICE. If their fingerprints come up in an ICE   database as somebody who is wanted on suspicion of an immigration   violation, then ICE can issue a detainer. Sanctuary status can’t   prevent that. ” ’   In June 2016,  it probably wouldn’’t renew its contract with   ICE. ”Barring overwhelming evidence presented by ICE of its law   enforcement value or of the need for county, rather than ICE   personnel to carry out this function, the 287( g) agreement will   not be renewed,” county spokesman Jim Kennelly . ’ ’   But the following month, the . ’ ’   ”I was convinced that it’’s a very effective tool in trying to   keep some bad guys out of our communities and off of our   streets,”  in defense of the agreement. ’ ”   DeGise declined Business Insider’s requests for an interview, but   in the 20 years since he backed Jersey City’s sanctuary status,   his change of rhetoric shows the limitations of     policy. ” ”   Even though Jersey City is a sanctuary city, its residents are at   a higher risk of being detained and deported because ICE is   embedded into the county’s corrections system. ” ’   Amid concerns from advocates that the county would have to abide   by new national guidelines introduced by Trump that allow ICE to   prioritize just about every unauthorized immigrant for detention,    it plans to continue following the priorities for   detention it signed onto when it    in July. According to those earlier   standards, county correction would flag for detention only people   who committed serious offenses. ’ ’   In an email to Business Insider, Kennelly wrote, ”The only   reports sent to ICE by Hudson County Corrections are limited to   serious offenses, laid out in a county policy put in place after   the new Presidential administration took office.” ’ ’ for whom the   county would screen and process  —   included on this list are   people who have been arrested on suspicion of any   misdemeanor that could result in at least three months of jail   time. ’ ’   ”I’’m a liberal Democrat, one who thinks that serious criminals,   especially those who commit sexual assaults against women and   children or engage in violent felonies don’’t deserve to remain in   this country to prey on the very immigrants we cherish in Hudson   County,” . ’ ’   But critics say 287( g) is more of a   program   for ICE to say it is ridding the streets of dangerous immigrants,   and they dispute the characterization  —   people arrested for minor   offenses wind up in detention all the time, advocates say. ’ ’  ’ ’   Rosa Santana, a   program coordinator at    tells Business Insider she has visited   with detainees who are in jail for traffic violations. ”We have   heard of clients who called the police for a domestic violence   dispute and then both parties were detained and ended up in   immigration detention,” she says. ’ ’   Rev. Eugene P. Squeo, a longtime immigrant advocate who visits   Hudson County detention center twice a week, says he often hears   stories that fathers who support their wives and children   sometimes spend months to years in detention for minor offenses. ’ ’   Kennelly says ICE can detain whomever it wants, including   people who have committed lesser crimes, and the county will   house these detainees. Hudson County has no hand in choosing   these detainees, he says. ”With 287( g) we exercise very careful   discretion in the choices of   individuals we report   to ICE who are drawn from the arrested persons brought to our   facility by local police,” he writes. ’ ”   Advocates say that, ultimately, the reason Hudson County kept its   287( g) contract with ICE is that the county didn’t want to   bite the hand that feeds it. ” ”     Wang, the organizing and advocacy director at American   Friends Service Committee who is also head of the group’s   Immigrant Rights Program, tells Business Insider that at a rate   of $110 a day for each detainee, it behooves the county to   identify more immigrants to be detained. ” ’   ”The reason DeGise decided to renew the partnership with ICE was   for the  from the federal   government for incarcerating immigrant detainees,” Eugene G.   Drayton, the president of the Hoboken Branch of the NAACP,   . ”The county   profits financially when, rather than being released, immigrants   whose criminal charges have been dismissed or otherwise resolved,   continue to be held on immigration matters.” ’ ’   At the end of March, nearly half  —   about 600  —   of the almost   1, 200 inmates at the jail were being held on ICE detainers,   . While  since January   thanks to a new law that says only pretrial defendants deemed a   danger to the public or to a witness may be detained, immigration   advocates suspect this makes room for more immigrant detainees to   occupy beds there. ’ ’   ”It seems that Hudson County is in a race to fill empty criminal   defendant beds with immigrant detainees to collect federal cash,”   . ’ ”   Kennelly says, however, that the county’s budget is huge  —   about   a   dollars  —   and, after expenses, the county nets   only $8 million in income for housing ICE detainees. What’s more,   he says the county hasn’t received any indication from ICE that   Hudson County’s jail would not be used if the county were to end   its involvement with 287( g). ” ”   And while the bond rules are freeing up beds, he says the   county’s focus for the future is repositioning its jail as a   regional center for drug treatment for inmates throughout the   state and region.  ” ’   Meanwhile, Jersey City has a financial incentive to protect its   22, 000 unauthorized immigrants. ’ ’   In the New York metro area, which includes Jersey City, 36% of   service jobs like making and serving food, working in offices and   retail shops, and caring for children and the elderly are done by   immigrants, both with documentation and without. And the   concentration of immigrants in this area working   jobs   like construction, truck driving, and factory work is even higher   at 50% of the working class, . ’ ”   Immigrants living in the US illegally aren’t just working for   small businesses, either. Immigration expert  that up to 10% of such immigrants   run their own businesses. If true, that would suggest there are   more than 2, 000 unauthorized entrepreneurs in Jersey City. ” ’   You can grab a fresh, hot samosa from one of the many restaurants   lining Newark Avenue in the ”Little India” section of Journal   Square, and, after a quick bus ride up Central Avenue, wash it   down with a cafe con leche from one of the Latin American   bakeries in The Heights. ’ ’  ’ ’   Jersey City is also changing, with a waterfront rapidly becoming   home to hipsters and finance workers priced out of New York   neighborhoods like Williamsburg in Brooklyn. ’ ’   ”A lot of diverse folks live in proximity to each other, and they   call them neighbors and friends and family,” Jersey City Council   President Rolando R. Lavarro tells Business Insider. ’ ’   But the new administration has brought new fears to those subject   to deportation. ’ ’ he   has vowed to deport the estimated  immigrants living in the US illegally using a   ”” and crack down on cities that provide a safe haven for   these people. His immigration policies as president so far appear   to be an attempt to bear these promises out. ’ ’   ”Sanctuary jurisdictions across the United States willfully   violate federal law in an attempt to shield aliens from removal   from the United States,” Trump said in his executive order on   immigration. ”These jurisdictions have caused immeasurable harm   to the American people and to the very fabric of our republic.” ’ ”   Trump’s executive order to withhold federal grant money from   sanctuary jurisdictions was reiterated by  the attorney general, who specified that Department   of Justice grants could be at risk. Just last year,  of almost $1. 9 million from the   DOJ to support the hiring of 15 new police officers. ” ”   Threats to federal grants in sanctuary cities have been met with   support by numerous conservative politicians, including New   Jersey’s governor, Chris Christie. ” ’   ”Elected officials can’’t be allowed to pick and choose the laws   they wish to comply with,” . ”And if they say   they’’re not going to change, I can guarantee them something:   Donald Trump is going to take away federal funding if you don’’t   comply with the law.” ’ ’   The New Jersey governor also said he would veto ”on arrival” any    for any   lost federal funds,  ”outrageous” and ”political pandering.” ’ ’   But Jersey City decided to fight back. It has attempted to   fortify its sanctuary status into an official law. ’ ’   ”I think it took [Jersey City] a little while to realize that,   while in name you might be a ’’sanctuary city,’’ in real practice   you need to put a bit more than just a sentiment in there to   actually do something,” says Johanna Calle, the program   coordinator at the New Jersey Alliance for Immigrant Justice. ’ ’  ’ ’   In February, the city codified its official status as a sanctuary   city into law. ’ ” that, among   other things, bars the city’s employees, agents, and law   enforcement from honoring ICE detainers. ” ”   Fulop’s order also bars city agents from assisting in civil     operations; requesting information about   anyone’s immigration status unless it’s required by state or   federal law, regulation, directive, or court order; or allowing   federal immigration officers access to municipal facilities or   databases without a warrant. ” ’   ”In today’’s climate, despite threats, it’’s just a strong   statement from Jersey City saying that we won’’t be bullied and we   won’’t be mistreated and we’’re going to stand by the values that   are important to us,” Fulop said at the   signing. ’ ’   Lavarro, the Jersey City council president, says Jersey City has   never aided ICE before. But by codifying its     status, the city is officially forbidding its police force from   helping ICE. ’ ”   But local officials can’t stop federal immigration agents from   entering the city and detaining immigrants themselves. Advocates   say the real value in   status is its symbolism. It   sends the message that local police officers are on their side,   . ” ’ crime to   be lower in counties that do not honor ICE detainers than in   counties that do. And  crimes at a   rate lower than that of   Americans. ’ ’  ’ ”   Fulop tells Business Insider that making Jersey City a sanctuary   city was imperative because he wanted to ensure there was a sense   of community in which people felt comfortable they could rely on   city resources, which Trump’s executive order threatens. ” ”   Jersey City’s director of public safety, James Shea, tells   Business insider there is no question the city has seen instances   in which fear of deportation has hindered law enforcement. ” ’   ”The big challenge in policing under our system of law isn’’t just   apprehension  —   it’’s conviction,” Shea says. ”And that requires   cooperation from the community in the form of witnesses,   canvassing, sharing their video cameras with us from their homes   or businesses. It requires a whole team effort from the   community. Anything that helps the community feel comfortable   making that effort works for us.” ’ ’   After she was picked up by ICE, the woman from the Philippines   spent 11 months in the Hudson County jail until a judge declared   she’’d most likely be persecuted if deported. She won a   ”withholding of removal,” essentially meaning she can stay in the   US and apply for a job. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”When I came here, I had my pockets full of hopes, because living   in the Philippines is really hard,” she said. The woman is   transgender, and the Philippines are not known for being   accepting of LGBT people. ’ ”   She says she’s been clean of drugs for five years and wants to   stay in the US. She says the US needs immigrants as much as   immigrants need this county. ” ’   ”I want to see this country be united,” she says. ”I want this   country to still have immigrants because immigrants built this   country, and I want this country to remain diverse. I want us to   be more united because when we’’re united we’’re stronger, and we   should not just let one person decide for the lives of the many.” ’ ”On Tuesday, a California judge blocked Trump’s. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’