’  ’ ”   A new, somewhat unexpected target is in the crosshairs of   President Donald Trump’s trade agenda: Canada. ” ”   And interestingly enough, Trump’s zeroing in on one of the US’s   closest allies has garnered bipartisan support from the likes of   Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, Democratic Sen. Amy   Klobuchar of Minnesota, and Republican Gov. Scott Walker of   Wisconsin. ” ”   Like Mexico and China before it, Canada finds itself on center   stage in Trump’s trade agenda. The bordering nation is preparing   for what appears to be a rapidly escalating battle on softwood   lumber and dairy  —   and, on a larger scale, the renegotiation of   the North American Free Trade Agreement. ” ”   The loudest shot in the developing battle was fired late Monday,   when the Trump administration said the US would slap a 20% tariff   on Canadian softwood lumber imports. Washington’s argument is   that the Canadian government unfairly subsidizes the sale of   lumber products to the US, and it said previous attempts at   negotiating a settlement had failed. ” ’   ”Canada is a good neighbor,” Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said   Tuesday at the White House press briefing. ”But they’’ve got to   play by the rules.” ’ ”   Ross said he didn’t think the disputes would spark a trade war   between the nations. ” ”   Trump on Tuesday morning took a swing at Canada’s     policies, which he argued effectively blocked US exports from the   Canadian market and put American farmers at a disadvantage. ” ’   ”Canada has made business for our dairy farmers in Wisconsin and   other border states very difficult,” . ”We will not stand for this. Watch!” ’ ’   The actions followed unexpectedly  from Trump on Canada last week  —   a departure from   the warm greeting Trump extended to Canadian Prime Minister   Justin Trudeau in February, when he said the   trade   relationship would require only ”tweaking.” ’ ’   ”It has been a bad week for   trade relations,” . ”This is not our idea of a properly   functioning free trade agreement.” ’ ’   The escalation of tension between the nations, specifically on   the  and softwood   lumber, has been welcomed by leading politicians in both parties   representing states close to or along the   border. ’ ’   ”Been fighting for NY dairy farmers on this,”  on Tuesday. ”Glad to see @POTUS join our fight to   change Canada’’s unfair policy that undercuts our farmers.” ’ ’   Klobuchar said in a statement on Monday night that the new   tariffs proposed by the administration ”could bring welcome   relief to workers, producers, and rural communities in Minnesota   and across the country that have been hurt by unfairly traded   softwood lumber.” ’ ’   She said the countries should work to negotiate a new agreement   related to softwood lumber. Her counterpart, Democratic Sen. Al   Franken, one of Trump’’s staunchest critics in the Senate, praised   the Trump administration as well for taking up the cause of dairy   farmers in his state. He added, though, that Trump must ”move   beyond simply saying the right things.” ’ ’   ”We need swift action to help American dairy farmers get through   this crisis,” he said. ”I plan to fight for a solution, and I’’ll   be continuing to press the president on this issue.” ’ ’   Meanwhile, Walker, one of the more conservative governors in the   country, recently joined Democratic Gov. Andrew Cuomo of New York   in writing a letter to Trump urging him to take up the cause. The   Wisconsin Republican  on Tuesday, ”Thanks for supporting WI dairy   farmers! !!” ’ ’  ’ ’   Canada has been swift to issue a  doubling down and preparing for ”any eventuality   with the US.” ’ ’   ”The government of Canada disagrees strongly with the US   Department of Commerce’’s decision to impose an unfair and   punitive duty,” Canadian Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia   Freeland and Natural Resources Minister Jim Carr said in a joint   statement. ”These accusations are baseless and unfounded.” ’ ’   They continued: ’ ”   The Trump administration’s tariff announcement on Monday   escalated a disagreement between the two countries that dates to   the 1980s. Imposing tariffs on Canadian softwood lumber products   is not an unprecedented response to the dispute, but it has   proved ineffective in the past. ” ’   The US lumber industry has frequently argued that Canada   improperly subsidizes lumber by offering cheap rates to cut trees   on land largely owned by the Canadian government. In previous   disputes, the squabbling led the US to impose punitive tariffs,   which were often reversed after international trade tribunals   sided with Canada. The two countries then negotiated settlements. ’ ’   ”With respect to softwood lumber, our producers and workers have   never been found in the wrong,” Freeland said in a statement.   ”The softwood industry supports thousands of jobs in both   countries and has downstream benefits in communities across the   continent. ’ ’   ”The United States needs Canadian lumber. A protracted dispute   will only drive up the cost of wood and homes for US consumers.” ’ ’   The current dispute stems from 2015, when an agreement reached   under the George W. Bush administration expired. After American   mills filed a complaint, the US Commerce Department determined   that five Canadian companies had received subsidies ranging from   3% to 24% and ordered countervailing duties. ’ ’   The tariffs the US seeks to impose would affect roughly $5   billion worth of Canadian lumber imports, . ’ ’   ”It’’s about 31. 5% of the total US market, so it’’s a pretty big   deal in terms of the Canadian relationship,” he said. ’ ”   While US lumber producers have praised the Trump administration’s   action, not all Americans are celebrating. US homebuilders said   such tariffs would dramatically raise the price of new houses and   eliminate construction jobs, . ” ’ last year found   that a 15% tariff could raise home prices by 4. 2% and cost 4, 666     jobs. ’ ”   Americans have also long complained about Canadian dairy   production. The US has taken issue with Canada’s supply   management system, which is used to regulate dairy pricing and   provide production quotas to help prevent surpluses and deficits. ” ’   Last year, Canada implemented a policy that created a new class   of milk prices for   milk  —   a liquid,     concentrate sometimes used to make products such as cheese and   yogurt. Canada lowered the prices for this milk class to   incentivize domestic   milk and better compete with   the   imports. ’ ”   The American dairy industry did not take kindly to these   developments and argued that the policy violated NAFTA. Dozens of   farmers in Wisconsin and New York have said the Canadian     policy has negatively affected them and eliminated   millions of dollars’ worth of access to the Canadian market. ” ’   ”What they’’ve done to our dairy farm workers is a disgrace,”   Trump told reporters on Thursday. ”It’’s a disgrace.” ’ ”   The Canadian dairy industry has said the     policy did not change import rules or impose any import taxes.   Instead, it says, the American dairy sector’s losses are caused   by milk overproduction in the US and globally. ” ’   ”Canada upholds our international trade obligations,” Canada’’s   ambassador to the US, David MacNaughton,  to Cuomo and Walker. ”Under the North   American Free Trade Agreement, the US has   and     access for milk protein substances, including   diafiltered milk. This   and   access has not   changed.” ’ ’A new, somewhat unexpected target is in the. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’