’  ’ ”   In the    future, Facebook thinks we’ll want to   strap on special goggles so that we can hang out with   our friends in a virtual world in which we appear as disembodied,   cartoon versions of ourselves. ” ”   Based on my experience with Facebook’s first real app for VR,    I’m highly skeptical. ” ’   Facebook  as a way to hang out with your friends in VR ”as if   you were in the same room, no matter where you are.” After   logging into your Facebook account with an Oculus Rift VR   headset, you can watch Facebook videos, look around at     photos or videos, take selfies, and draw in 3D with up to three   of your Facebook friends. ’ ”   I tried Facebook Spaces, which is still in beta but available now   on the Oculus Rift, for about 20 minutes during Facebook’s annual   developer conference last week. Some aspects of my experience,   such as video calling with Facebook Messenger, were quite buggy.   And I left the demo feeling generally confused about what I had   just experienced and questioning why I would ever want to use   Facebook in VR again. ” ’  ’ ’   Facebook kicked off its push into VR with its $2 billion   acquisition of Oculus in 2014. Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg has   said that VR will be the next major tech platform that brings   people together. ’ ’   At the Oculus developer conference last year, Zuckerberg showed   off the VR experience that is now called Spaces. He took selfies   with friends at virtual tourist attractions, played   virtual board games, and called his wife Priscilla inside VR   with Messenger. ’ ’   ”The idea is that virtual reality puts people first,” Zuckerberg   later wrote . ”It’’s all about who you’’re with. Once you’’re   in there, you can do anything you want together    travel to   Mars, play games, fight with swords, watch movies or teleport   home to see your family. You have an environment where you can   experience anything.” ’ ”   The problem with Facebook Spaces is what, while using a virtual   selfie stick may feel fun and novel at first, there’s nothing   compelling enough about it to make me want to actually hang out   in VR. Standing in the middle of a   video of a   rainforest is cool, but I’d rather watch most videos in high   definition on my TV or phone. ” ”   And if I want to talk with someone, I’d rather see their real   face over a video call instead of seeing their vaguely familiar,   cartoonish avatar. Facebook does let you call people in the real   world from VR using Messenger. But when I tried to call a friend   using Messenger in VR, all they saw were my disembodied avatar’s   hands and not my face. (I was told it was a bug that would be   fixed if I restarted the app.) ” ’  ’ ”   Facebook Spaces feels like a tech demo without a clear   purpose. At one point, the Facebook employee showing me around in   VR rhetorically asked how cool it would be to pop some popcorn   and watch Facebook videos in VR while surrounded by the Egyptian   pyramids. I’m not sure anyone has wished for that experience, and   I’m not sure why they would. ” ”   For now, Facebook Spaces is also hampered by the fact that the VR   hardware required to use it is . I found the Oculus   Rift headset to also be physically uncomfortable to wear for   more than a few minutes, which makes the idea of ’hanging out in   VR’ unattractive. ” ’   “We’re focusing on paradigms for the current hardware assuming it   [VR] will become mainstream at some point in the future,” Mike   Booth, who led the development of Facebook Spaces, said at one of   the company’’s developer talks last week. ’ ”   But for VR to go mainstream, it’s going to be up to companies   like Facebook to create compelling experiences outside of gaming.   So far, at least with the first version, Facebook Spaces    isn’t good enough to make people want to go out and buy the   Oculus Rift. ” ’In the    future, Facebook thinks. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’