’  ’ ”   There’s a great  about how Wall Street’s   masters of the universe invest their money through family   offices, and how that can sometimes raise eyebrows across the   industry. ” ”   It’s not hard to see why family offices can be a problem.     investors are supposed to be putting their clients’   interests first, and The Journal report suggests that if they’re   investing for themselves, they might get distracted from their   work. ” ’   Worse yet, their personal investments could pose a conflict for   their firms. ’ ”   There are a bunch of big names in the piece  —   Blackstone COO Tony   James, the legendary hedge fund manager Paul Tudor Jones, and   Apollo’s Joshua Harris. ” ”   Bill Ackman’s example, however, stands out, in part because it’s   linked to one of the biggest business scandals in recent years,   . ” ’’ ”   Ackman has a  with the company. He backed its bid to   acquire Allergan, the maker of Botox, in 2014, which ultimately   failed. A year later, Ackman’s Pershing Square fund bought a   stake in it and rode the stock down through its dramatic 90%   collapse until last month, . ” ”   During that time, The Journal notes, Ackman made a personal   investment ($7 million for a 1. 5% stake) in Sprout, the maker of   a libido pill for women, called Addyi, in 2015. Valeant   eventually bought Sprout, and Sprout apparently sought Ackman’s   guidance on the matter, according to The Journal. ” ”   He assured the company that Valeant’s management was     (most of them have since been fired, including the CEO) and   Valeant picked up Sprout for $1 billion because of Addyi. Not a   bad payday for Ackman. ” ”   The problem is that Addyi has been a massive failure for Valeant.    it just doesn’t work. ” ’   So while this was a good deal for Ackman, it was a raw deal for   Valeant and its shareholders, including Pershing Square and its   clients. ’ ’   From The Journal: ’ ”   So according to the Journal, Ackman’s personal investment paid   off nicely, while his fund’s shareholders ended up getting   burned. ” ’   But you know, these things get messy. ’ ”There’s a great piece in The Wall Street. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’