’  ’ ’   We now know a bit more about President Donald Trump’’s massive tax   cut, which he has called ”the biggest in history.” ’ ”   We know it’s intended to be a simplification that would cut   corporate tax rates to 15% and eliminate deductions and things   like the alternative minimum tax, which would be a big deal for   Trump himself. ” ’   We know that, according to the Tax Policy Center, the  could cost the country $2 trillion   over the next 10 years. ’ ’   Most importantly, we know that if the plan has any hope of   survival, its architects must engage in a massive generational   theft, and they would use a classic budget trick to pull it off. ’ ’   The trick is a method is called dynamic scoring, which in reality   is just a fancy way of justifying massive increases in the   national debt. ’ ’   ”As we said, we’’re working on a lot of details,” Treasury   Secretary Steve Mnuchin said during a press conference on   Wednesday to unveil the plan. ”This will pay for itself with   growth and reduced deductions.” ’ ’   Dynamic scoring has to do with the ”growth” part of Mnuchin’’s   explanation. To make tax cuts that look as if they wouldn’’t put a   massive hole in the budget, policy wonks estimate the future   benefit of tax cuts to the economy after making a load of   assumptions  —   including about  in response to falling tax   revenue. ’ ”   Those imagined benefits are then added to future budget   projections, and  —   BOOM  —   you’ve got a   balance   sheet for America. ” ’   Now, you might think that   fiscally conservative   Republicans would be opposed to things like this and that Trump   might face opposition from his party. ’ ”   But he won’t. That’s because there is a way to make Washington’s   budgets sound more sensible than they are. That’s where dynamic   scoring, much beloved by deficit hawks like  comes in. ” ”   The   House adopted dynamic scoring last   year, but it’s still up for debate in the Senate, where opponents   like Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont have been critical of the   practice. They say it politicizes the budgeting process. ” ”   That’s in part because there’s no exact way to dynamically score   anything. This is not a science. There’s no set process, and   there are no set rules on the assumptions made. For example,   Mnuchin said during the press conference that his office was   playing with a bunch of different models. (That’s reassuring.) ” ’  ’ ’   So back when GOP lawmakers put pressure on the nonpartisan Joint   Committee on Taxation to use dynamic scoring, it was unclear to   Tom Barthold, the economist who heads the group, exactly what   that meant. ’ ’   What we do know, though, is that both the  argued that tax   cuts, especially for the wealthy, would pay for themselves. In   both instances, this got us in trouble. ’ ’   More from the  (emphasis ours): ’ ’   So all Trump has to do is zoom in on the model that shows that   cutting taxes for the rich while spending tons of money would be   great for the economy, and this plan is a go. ’ ’   How hard do you think it will be to find that in Washington? ’ ’ An earlier version of this article appeared on Business   Insider in November. ’ ’We now know a bit more about President Donald. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’