’  ’ ’   President Donald Trump told Fox News on Friday that Michael Flynn   was ”already approved by the Obama administration at the highest   level” when he was hired to serve as national security   adviser in January. ’ ”   Flynn, who headed the Defense Intelligence Agency from 2012 to   2014, came under renewed scrutiny earlier this week when the   House Oversight Committee  from Russia’s   news agency, Russia Today,   when he was renewing his security clearance in January 2016. ” ”   Flynn also lobbied on behalf of a Turkish businessman with ties   to the country’s government between August and November of 2016,   but he did not register as a foreign agent with the Justice   Department until earlier this year.  ” ’   The White House has said that what Flynn did as a private   citizen, after he retired from the DIA and before he was hired by   the Trump administration, was not its concern. But Trump has   faced questions about why Flynn, who was forced to step down as   national security adviser after only 24 days, was not more   thoroughly vetted for potential conflicts of interest before he   was brought into the White House.  ’ ’  ’ ’’ ’   Trump replied that while he does feel badly, Flynn ”was approved   by the Obama administration at the highest level.” ’ ’   ”And when they say we didn’t vet, well Obama I guess didn’t vet,   because he was approved at the highest level of security by the   Obama administration,” Trump said. ”So when he came into our   administration, for a short period of time, he came in, he was   already approved by the Obama administration and he had years   left on that approval. ” ’ ”   Trump appeared to be doubling down on a talking point about   Flynn’s controversies that was first articulated on Thursday   by White House press secretary Sean Spicer. ” ’  ’ ”   Flynn’s security clearance was reauthorized in January 2016  —     presumably due to his role managing Flynn Intel Group  —     which means he wouldn’t have had to renew it until at least   2021. ” ”   Still, many national security and intelligence experts argue   that, in light of Flynn’s lobbying work throughout 2016 and the   fact that he was pushed out by the Obama   administration in 2014, he should have been subject to more   scrutiny before he was elevated to such a       position at the White House. ” ’   ” ’ ’    ’ ’   Cummings  on Thursday that the   documents ”raise grave questions about why General Flynn   concealed the payments he received from foreign sources after he   was warned explicitly by the Pentagon.” ’ ’   ”Our next step is to get the documents we are seeking from the   White House so we can complete our investigation,” he added. ’ ’President Donald Trump told Fox News on Friday. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’