’  ’ ’   On Wednesday, a brutal round of layoffs at ESPN  including a number   of     talent and reporters. ’ ”   The firings came after a   downtrend for ESPN’s fortunes   as a decline in subscribers and ratings have hit the company’s   bottom line. ” ’   The   ”Worldwide Leader in Sports” has been   struggling to navigate its future in a world with streaming   services, readily available sports highlights, and   costs   for rights fees. ’ ”   As is many times the case with stumbling business models (see   ) the reason behind much   of ESPN’s current troubles was pretty excellently summed up   by Warren Buffett in a letter to Berkshire Hathaway’s   shareholders. ” ’ and was pointed out by  in a newsletter on Thursday. ’ ’’ ’   ”The economic strength of   media enterprises continues   to erode as retailing patterns change and advertising and   entertainment choices proliferate,” Buffett said. ’ ’   Buffett noted that the media business had come to ”resemble   businesses more than franchises in their   economic behavior.” These are two terms that Buffett uses to   describe businesses built to last versus those that are not.   Here’’s a breakdown of the differences: ’ ”   Essentially, ESPN for years was the only place to find things   like sports highlights and many live sporting events. While it   still commands a considerable number of live sports rights, the   need to watch programs like SportsCenter  —   once   ESPN’s flagship program  —   has diminished with the advent of   online highlights and social media. ” ’   Additionally, the once    analysis provided by ESPN   has spread to a bevy of sports media   and even well   researched posts on places like Reddit. ’ ’   At the same time, ESPN draws a    essentially a fee paid by cable providers to ESPN to have the   channel on its air waves. With the rise of cord cutting, ESPN has   seen its subscriptions slide. Previously, subscribers needed   to have ESPN as part of their package in order to get basic   cable. With skinny bundles and a host of options beyond   cable, there are fewer subscribers to point to for ESPN to   justify the high fees. ’ ”   Thus, looking at Buffett’s franchise definition, there is   both a close substitute for much of ESPN’s programming and the   need to have ESPN as part of a cable bundle has diminished. ” ’   Add in the fact that ESPN is becoming more dependent on live   sports rights, which means the leagues it contracts with  and there is a cost problem   brewing as well. ’ ’   Now the layoffs most likely are marginal cuts for the network   that pays billions in sports rights every year, but they clearly   signal that ESPN’’s business model is no longer unassailable and   prove that they have shifted from Buffett’’s definition of a   ”franchise” to a ”business.” ’ ’   ”In the business world, unfortunately, the   mirror is   always clearer than the windshield,” Buffett wrote. ’ ’  ()  ’ ’On Wednesday, a brutal round of layoffs at ESPN. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’