’  ’ ”   Jamie Klein had no assumptions that President Donald Trump’s   first 100 days would be easy. ” ’   ”I sent him to Washington to kick over the table,” Klein said.   ”That’’s why I sent him there.” ’ ”   Klein is a    delegate from Pennsylvania’s 5th district.   He is one of the handful of voters who were crucial to Trump’s   victory, pushing him over the finish line  —   twice. ” ”   Those voters, the Pennsylvania delegates, won seats last   summer to the Republican convention in Cleveland, where they were   unbound to any candidate as  but   ultimately cemented Trump’s win at a time when the GOP resistance   to him was near a fever pitch. ” ”   And in November, they led the charge in the grassroots back   in Pennsylvania, working to turn out and raise support for the     nominee. Perhaps no state was more pivotal to Trump’s   shocking electoral victory over Democratic presidential nominee   Hillary Clinton than Pennsylvania, a   vote state that   had not gone red since 1988. ” ”     days into his presidency, these Keystone State   voters still see Trump as their guy. Lack of a big legislative   achievement? That’s on House Speaker Paul Ryan. Events that   reflect poorly on the president? They’re overhyped by a media   that’s out to get him. The controversy involving Russia? Phony   and overblown. ” ”   There’s plenty of finger pointing for what went down in the early   days of the Trump administration, and almost none of it is   directed at the president himself. They are thrilled with his   appointment of Justice Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court, love   the big show of Trump’s   signing of executive orders,   and looking forward to a big tax cut. ” ’   ”After four years of this, there will be a lot less federal   employees,” Klein said. ”There will be a lot less debt.   There will be a lot more tears. So, I mean, he’’s in the swamp.   What he needs is a good machete. And he seems to have one, and   he’’s whacking away at them.” ’ ”   Trump will return to Pennsylvania on Saturday night for a     rally on his 100th day in office, speaking to a   crowd in Harrisburg far removed from the spectacle of the White   House Correspondents’ Dinner in Washington, DC, that he refused   to attend. ” ”   Klein has stopped watching the news. But that’s not necessarily a   bad thing to him. ” ’   ”They need problems, they are the establishment, and they lie,”   he told this Business Insider reporter. ”And look, I don’’t   make them lie. They make them lie.” ’ ’   Perhaps no battle between Trump and another entity was more   pronounced during the first 100 days of his administration than   the war he waged against media outlets  —   many of which he   showered with seemingly unprecedented access to the West Wing.   Media outlets were ”dishonest” and ”failing.” At one point, he    as ”the   enemy of the American people” and ”the opposition party.” ’ ’   For these Pennsylvania backers, Trump’’s   rhetoric hit   home. Klein accused reporters of laying ”traps” and being   ”thoroughly dishonest.” ’ ’   ”And I think everyone in the country more or less thinks so,” he   said. ’ ’  ’ ’ showed   he’’s far from alone in his sentiment. Slightly more than   half of Americans polled said the national political media ”is   out of touch with everyday Americans,” compared to just 28% who   said it understood ”the issues everyday Americans are   facing.” The Trump administration is also viewed as more   trustworthy than the political media by a 37% to 29%. ’ ’   ”Nobody can argue that the media is more of a     entity than a liberal entity,” said Matthew   Jansen, a delegate from Pennsylvania’’s 4th district. ’ ”   Carolyn Bonkoski, a delegate from Pennsylvania’s 17th district,   said she wishes there would be more content on the evening news   that she wanted to see  —   like, she said, what she sees her   friends posting on Facebook. ” ’   ”We go on Facebook and you see all the wonderful pictures of   Trump sitting with people from all around the world,” she said.   ”World leaders, business leaders, bikers, veterans, they’’re all   there at the White House. And you see all these pictures of these   people and what’’s going on, but you don’’t see it in your nightly   news. There’’s just a lot of talking heads doing a lot of   talking.” ’ ’   A fellow delegate from the 17th district, Lynette Villano, said   she is ”having a hard time” trying to find coverage that she   believes provides straight news. Even Fox News, she said, can be   a bit much, pointing to the amount of arguing that occurs on   cable. ’ ’   ”I am really having a hard time with it, I really am,” she said.   ”Even Fox News, which I watch most of the time, I get annoyed at   the arguing that goes on with the guests they have on the show.” ’ ’   She said she tries to tune into CNN for ”a little bit, and I last   about five minutes” because ”they’’re just so biased.” She said   she tunes in to White House press secretary Sean Spicer’’s daily   briefing to make up her own mind about the issues. ’ ’   But the biggest problem she said she faces? Following the   unheralded amount of news generated by the Trump administration   on a daily basis. ’ ”   It’s difficult to just keep up with. ” ’   ”The hardest part is knowing what’’s going on every day so you   know what you’’re talking about,” she said. ”It’’s very difficult.   I try to catch the news at night, I try and do it at lunch time.   I try and do it when I’’m in the car. It’’s really hard.” ’ ”   Jansen, the delegate from the 4th district, points the finger   squarely at Republican leadership for the biggest failure of   Trump’s first 100 days  —   the inability to pass the American   Health Care Act to overhaul the healthcare system under   Obamacare. ” ’   ”Disappointing to see the Republicans not line up behind the   White House,” Jansen said. ”I thought it was a mistake. I thought   they needed to pass it. There were pieces I didn’’t care for,   certainly not, but get it done. That was a mainstay campaign   promise. And to not see the Republicans in Congress get behind   the White House, that was a disappointment.” ’ ’   ”We needed a check in the win column,” he added. ’ ”   The Republican bill, a highly unpopular piece of legislation, was   promoted and endorsed by Trump and his White House. But   it couldn’t garner enough Republican votes to pass in the   House. Infighting among hardline conservatives and more moderate   Republicans quashed the plan closely associated with House   Speaker Paul Ryan. As a result, Republicans are still trying to   get their ducks in a row on the healthcare front. ” ”   Congressional Republicans had been promising a repealing and   replacement of what is known as Obamacare for virtually the   entirety of Barack Obama’s presidency, and Trump had promised an   immediate repeal and replace of the landmark healthcare law as   soon as he took office. ” ’   Ryan, and other Republicans in Congress, were a frequent target   of ire of the Trump supporters. ’ ’   ”He’’s no help to the Trumps and the people who elected him,” said   Bonkoski, of the 17th district. ”He’’s like working against it.   And I think he was doing that while he was there with Obama, so   I’’m surprised he’’s still there. He really has to go.” ’ ’   Justin DePlato, a delegate from Pennsylvania’’s 18th district,   placed blame on the ”RINOs [Republicans in Name Only]” in   Congress, as well as the Freedom Caucus ”no brigade.” He tossed   in ”obstructionist Democrats” for good measure. The three groups   ”are making governing virtually impossible.” ’ ’  ’ ’   But Bonkoski also expressed disappointment that Trump stood for   the AHCA, a bill she said she and her fellow Keystone State Trump   supporters ”didn’’t like.” She also criticized House   Republicans for keeping the legislation ”secret for too long,”   pointing back at Trump for letting the House leaders ”keep it   secret.” ’ ’   ”I feel like he should’’ve let them make us know what was in their   beforehand and then when we heard what was in it we thought ’’how   could he want them to pass this,” she said. ”We were disappointed   in that.” ’ ”   Bonkoski, an insurance agent who said Obamacare crushed her   business with customers under the age of 65, said she still has   faith in Trump’s ability to reform healthcare. ” ”   Rick Morelli, a delegate from Pennsylvania’s 11th district,   also has faith. But he thinks Trump should be more proactive   about working with Democrats on the legislation. And he thinks   fixing the law, rather than repealing it, is a swell idea. ” ’   Polling shows that Americans overwhelmingly agree with Morelli.    from the Democratic firm Public   Policy Polling found that 62% of voters surveyed said they   preferred Congress keep the Affordable Care Act and fix the   problems with it. Just 30% of respondents said they would rather   have Congress vote to repeal the law and start over with new   legislation. ’ ’   Repeal and replace ”to me is just politics,” Morelli said. ”’’Ours   is better than yours’’ and all that. Like I said, I’’m not going to   say everything Obama did was wrong just because he’’s a Democrat.   It’’s not the right thing. The plan had  —   he put a lot of people   on insurance that didn’’t have it, and there are a lot of people   who if they were taken off would be hurt. And so, work with it.   Take what’’s wrong, fix it, and keep what’’s right. You know, pull   the egos out of it.” ’ ’   On why Trump didn’’t make any effort to court Democratic support   on healthcare, Morelli thought ”maybe he miscalculated.” ’ ’   But Morelli also bashed Ryan and the conservative Freedom   Caucus for the failure. ’ ’   ”Trump won for a reason, he spoke on a lot of things that got   people interested,” he said. ”You can’’t ignore that. . .. These   guys have to open their eyes and say ’’things are changing. ’’ And I   think the majority of people are in the middle, even though they   may be registered Democrat or Republican, they really are in the   middle. . .. Those   Republicans are as bad as the     liberals in my opinion.” ’ ’   With Republicans holding majorities in the House and Senate, and   controlling the White House, there are no excuses for Morelli:   ”You’’ve got to get things done.” ’ ’   Klein, of the 5th district, called the     cloud hovering over the Trump administration the   ”biggest horse’’s laugh I’’ve ever heard.” ’ ’   ”The Russians are trying to take, what, over our elections?   Russians aren’’t trying to take over our elections,” he said. ’ ”   It’s been perhaps the most pervasive story throughout all of   Trump’s first 100 days, grabbing headlines on an almost   daily basis. The biggest casualty of the ordeal was Michael   Flynn, the former national security adviser, ousted after 24 days   for misleading Vice President Mike Pence about his   communications with Russian ambassador Sergey Kislyak prior to   Trump’s inauguration. Now, Flynn has asked for immunity from   prosecution in exchange for testimony. ” ’   And in early March, FBI Director James Comey made a highly   unusual announcement before the House Intelligence Committee   in March that the bureau was looking into possible collusion   between Trump associates and Russian government officials in an   attempt to swing the November election in his favor.  ’ ’  ’ ”   Trump’s supporters firmly believe the story is being perpetuated   to heights that is simply not backed up by evidence.  found that voters are   split on whether members of Trump’s campaign colluded with the   Russians to swing the election. ” ’   ”I absolutely, positively, do not think for one minute that   Russia had anything to do with us voting for Trump,” said   Villano, of the 17th district. ”I don’’t know of anybody that was   influenced. I just think it’’s, people looking for a story because   they didn’’t want to lose. I can’’t even go there.” ’ ’   She pointed to the story pushed by Trump in response to the     cloud of controversy: that the Obama   administration may have nefariously surveilled him or members of   his campaign. Reports showed that members of the Trump orbit were   captured on legally obtained FISA warrants of foreign officials   communications, and the decision to ”unmask” those in Trump’’s   orbit set off a controversy, though it did not appear that   any laws were broken. ’ ’   ”I’’m more concerned with this, if there was, this surveillance   and they picked up Americans and these people were exposed,”   Villano said. ”That is illegal. So I’’m more upset about   that.”  ’ ’   She said what she perceived as a partisan push behind the story   has diminished its validity. ’ ’   ”You have to consider the source it’’s coming from,” she said. ”A   lot of the time when this stuff is coming from the Democrats,   it’’s just so partisan. And even with a lot of the news media,   with a lot of the stuff that would go on before the election,   they would not write about anything, because they didn’’t   understand what the American people want, what the voters want.” ’ ’   ”Most people I know, they don’’t talk about Russia,” she   continued. ”They talk about jobs, they talk about the economy,   they talk about keeping their kids healthy, about getting   healthcare. The main reasons we supported Trump are the main   reasons we are still with him.” ’ ’   Morelli, of the 11th district, expressed a similar sentiment,   summing up his thoughts on the ordeal succinctly. ’ ’   ”I’’m so sick of the Russian issue,” he said. ”Not saying it   shouldn’’t be looked at, but I think it’’s overkill.” ’ ”   While overwhelmingly pleased with the early months of Trump’s   presidency, the delegates had some pieces of advice. ” ’   Morelli said Trump ”shines when he’’s focusing on the issues,” so   he should try to get a better handle on the ”difference between   campaigning and the presidency” and not ”get bogged down with   things that aren’’t as important. ’ ’   He pointed to the tweets where Trump baselessly accused Obama of   wiretapping him in Trump Tower prior to inauguration. Trump did   not provide any proof to back it up, and the administration spent   weeks investing political capital in trying to prove Trump   right. ’ ’   ”Whatever the case may be, those things aren’’t important to the   big picture, which is what I think most people are looking at,”   Morelli said. ”So don’’t get bogged down on the tiny things, don’’t   get bogged down on the handful of things people say, you can’’t   fight every battle.” ’ ’   DePlato, of the 18th district, said Trump could do a better job   clarifying his   agenda and putting more of a focus   on comprehensive immigration reform. He added that he’’d be   pleased to see Trump spend more time outside of Washington and   more time ”out and about with the folks.” ’ ’   ”He should spend more time opening up DC to math and science   competitions and should spend time in America’’s inner cities,” he   said. ’ ”   Jansen’s advice was simple: Focus on jobs  —   that’s what every   president is judged on. ” ’   ”If jobs, the economy strengthens, jobs come back and people are   working, yes, he will bridge the gap and make friends,” he said.   ”Because that’’s the one thing in every administration that   everyone relies on as the barometer of is this a successful   presidency or not. It’’s ’’is there a robust economy or a weakened   economy? ’’” ’ ’  ’ ’   He added that if Trump decides to start doing some serious   reversals on hallmark campaign promises, ”those hordes of people   that went to those rallies and chanted ’’lock her up’’ and ’’build   that wall’’ and stuff are going to know about it loud and clear.” ’ ’   ”They’’re paying attention to it,” Jansen said of Trump’’s   followers. ”There are people who were not involved in politics   before who all of a sudden are. And they’’re going to be paying   attention. His backers are alerted to this.” ’ ”   The opposition to Trump from the left has maintained strength   during his first 100 days. Starting with the massive Women’s   March, sustained protests, and Trump’s low approval ratings,   the backlash has provided Democrats with little reason to   work with the president. ” ’   The divisiveness in the country is what Villano, of the 17th   district, called her ”biggest disappointment.” ’ ’   ”The hate that goes on,” she said. ”The people who will not   accept him as their president. I just can’’t get past it. I grew   up in a society where we had a legal election, and these people   who want to deny it  —   I feel bad for our young people, for what   they’’re being taught. It really upsets me.” ’ ’   Bonkoski pointed to some of the more violent protests, involving   masked ” ” demonstrators. She said it causes her to be   concerned for both Trump’’s safety and the safety of other people. ’ ’   She called the ”antifa” protestors ”paid mercenaries.” ’ ’   ”They’’re being paid, many of them, to protest,” she said, making   a claim that Trump and many in the conservative media have made.   ”To go against it and block the streets and hit people and cover   their faces, that’’s insane.” ’ ’   She referenced the Tea Party protests of the early part of the   decade, and the annual ”March for Life” as examples of   conservatives who protested without resorting to using physical   violence. ’ ’   ”If you want to protest, I mean, Tea Party people didn’’t cover   their faces,” she said. ”Protesters for   they’’re   peaceful, their faces are open.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Klein said the early days of the Trump administration have been   clouded by what he considers to be ”Trump derangement syndrome”   from the president’’s opponents. ’ ’   He views the situation as more of an us vs. them. The ”us” being   middle America, the ”them” being the ”Beltway.” ’ ’   ”I have relatives and they all live in the Beltway,” he said. ”My   wife’’s relatives. And they think things really are great. Because   for them, it is. But you know, for the country, it’’s not.   Business is down. Way down. And we lie about it. And it doesn’’t   help anybody to lie about it. What helps is, getting somebody big   enough, tough enough, and dumb enough to jump into the swamp with   an axe and start hitting alligators on their heads.” ’ ’   ”I don’’t think the people in the beltway are even American,” he   added. ”I think they’’re sort of, you know, a political complex.   All sold on their humanity. We’’re the humans. Or they’’re the   purists. They’’re politicians and media people. And they feed on   each other. When Donald says he’’s going to drain the swamp, when   the president says he’’s going to drain the swamp, it doesn’’t make   the alligators happy.” ’ ”   Without a major piece of legislation passed within the first 100   days, Trump’s supporters pointed to a other bits from his entry   into Washington, DC, as the accomplishments they appreciated from   the man the voted into office.  ” ”   One surprising area: his Twitter account. Trump has inflicted   weeks’ worth of headaches upon himself with tweets that have   dominated headlines at   times, such as when he   accused Obama of wiretapping his phones. But to his supporters,   it’s a direct window into the president’s thinking. No filter   needed. ” ’   ”We love it that he tweets, because he keeps us informed,”   Bonkoski said. ’ ’   DePlato went as far to say Trump’’s Twitter use is   ”revolutionizing the way presidents communicate with”   constituents, calling it ”very effective.” ’ ’   Noting that the tweets have been a point of contention for some,   Jansen said that he ”loves the Twitter activity.” ’ ”   And, there’s no filter needed. ” ’   ”I think it’’s hilarious,” he said. ”I didn’’t have to pick up a   newspaper or turn on the television, it was right there on my   nightstand.” ’ ’Jamie Klein had no assumptions that President. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’