’    ’ ’  ’ ’ Gov. John Kasich of Ohio wants to bridge the divides in   America. ’ ’ And that’’s exactly what Kasich, a Republican presidential   contender in the 2016 election, spoke with Business Insider about   this week while on tour promoting his new book, ”.” ’ ” At times fiercely critical of President Donald Trump, both   before and after the campaign, Kasich has positioned himself   within the Republican Party as an outspoken voice on healthcare,   the opioid crisis, immigration, and trade. And while he’s not   revealing his plans, there is certainly plenty of speculation   about whether he will make another run at the presidency in   2020. ” ’ With his term up in 2018, Kasich is gearing up for life after   his governorship. A former   congressman, Fox News host,   and Lehman Bros. banker, Kasich said he could foresee a future in   politics, media, or business  —   or something still to be   determined. ’ ’ As a voice of moderation in the 2016 campaign, he was the   last competitor to drop out of the race before Trump became the   presumptive Republican nominee. ’ ’ His book is the first signal about what could be next for the   Ohio Republican. ’ ’ This transcript has been edited for length and clarity. ’ ’Allan Smith: Tell me first, what was the   inspiration behind writing this book? ’ ”John Kasich: Well, the things I learned on the   campaign shouldn’t just be dismissed, OK? I thought what I saw   was sort of a  —   it was really something that got me so motivated   to think about how did that happen and where are we going. And   then I started to reflect on all of the things I’ve seen   throughout my career, no matter what it is. ” ’   Whether it was in the media, business, politics  —   and I think the   country is adrift, and I think there are ways out of it, so I   felt compelled to do that and write the book. The people that I   worked with, you know, this is my fourth book, they were very   encouraging for me to do it. And then it just flowed. And I got a   whole lot out about my observations and how it affects you and   me. ’ ”   So I want people to read this book not just because I have some   ego trip and I want people to buy this book, but because I want   you to read this book because I think you will be surprised. It   covers so many different aspects of what’s happening in America   and what they can do to be a part of what to do to fix this   country. So I’m very excited about this book. I’m maybe more   excited about this than any book I’ve done. ” ”Smith: Through your campaign, what is the one   big thing you learned about the country in 2016 that you didn’t   necessarily know about it beforehand? ” ’  ’ ”Kasich: Well, about the country, I think I came   to learn that people are not that much into tax cuts or   regulations. What they want is they want to feel that people care   about them and they’re going to have a chance to get up on their   feet. And that whatever situation they find themselves in, they   want to know they’re not alone. I think that’s a big part of it.   That’s why I think the United [Airlines] problems became viral,   because it was an example of where people were treated, where   this guy was treated as a widget and not as a human being. And I   think people want to know that they’re not alone. ” ’   You know, I went into a store to get my smartphone replaced  —   I   don’’t have it with me; it’’s a flip phone  —   and the lady  —   I had   to wait for a while  —   the lady handed me a new phone. I dropped   mine in the swimming pool. And I said, ”How much does it cost   me?” And she said, ”We made you wait here, just take this phone.   We’’re not going to charge you.” I couldn’’t believe them. ’ ’   She said, ”Well that’’s nothing, because I had a lady come in with   a smartphone and we fixed it, and it was our fault, and I gave it   back to her, and she said, ’’What do I owe you? ’’ And I said, ’’You   don’’t owe me anything. ’’ And the lady almost started to cry. She   said, ’’Nobody treats anybody like that anymore. ’’” Kindness seems   to have gone out the  other people say   the world is coming to an end. I mean, yeah, I think that it’s   easy for people to make things up to convince people of their   point of view, and I think it’s dangerous. Fake news is   dangerous.   you know, what is the truth? It’s   important we know the truth. ” ”Smith: Well, I mean, right now we’ve got the   president who’s used the term fake news to describe  —   ” ’Kasich:  —   anything that is criticism. ’ ’Smith: Yeah. ’ ”Kasich: And I think that’s bad. ” ’Smith: So what do you consider to be the   definition of fake news? ’ ”Kasich:   stuff. Things that are not   founded in reality. Something that is of somebody’s imagination. ” ’Smith: And as being somebody who was on Fox News   for a while, specifically  —   ’ ’Kasich:  —   let me tell you how I did my job,   OK? ’ ’Smith: Yeah. ’ ’Kasich: I mean, the first show I had was called   ”Heroes.” And the second show I had was ”From the Heartland.” And   I did ”O’’Reilly” for almost 10 years. If there was a segment I   didn’’t like, I just would tell them I’’m not doing it. ”Sorry, I’’m   not doing it.” Now, you can’’t always have it your way. Sometimes   they’’d say, ”We really think this is important.” And you don’’t   want to be, you know, a   guy, but there were a   number of times where I’’d say, ”Nope, I’’m not doing it.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Same is true when I was at Lehman Bros. Some of the bankers   finally figured out ”We’’re not going to take him to see some   certain clients because he just is not going to go along.” Now,   I’’m not putting myself on this pedestal. I don’’t want to be   knocked off my   petard here, you know. But you kind   of struggle to get it right. And sometimes you get it wrong. But   I was interested in trying to present things in a very   interesting way because I’’m not sure that  —   I think that   boring content when presented right can be quite interesting. How   do you like that? ’ ’Smith: I would agree with that. ’ ”Kasich: That’s a great quote. ” ”Smith: Hang that up on the wall at Business   Insider. That’s the model. ” ’Kasich: I tell you, I did a show one time. They   said it was going to be a failure. And I had Elie Wiesel, an   imam, a rabbi, and a priest. And the show did exceedingly well.   They didn’’t want me to do the show. And I said, ”Well, I think   this will be great.” And it did well. So you know, I think, guys,   two young guys here (pointing to Smith and   LoGiurato) you, much younger than he is (pointing   at LoGiurato, who is actually three years older than Smith)   they’’re going to remember you for what you did, not for your   title and your money. ’ ’   No one cares about that when they put us in the box, right? I’’ve   never been to a funeral where they said, ”Well, this guy was   really rich.” You know? It’’s never about that. It’’s like, ”Well,   with his wealth, he gave to charity.” I’’d like at least 70% of   what they say about me when I die to actually be true. That’’s my   goal. ’ ”Smith: That’s a good threshold. ” ’Kasich: They can go 30%  . Fake news. Give   me at least 70%. ’ ’Smith: So I think an   idea was that  —   ’ ’Kasich:  —   do you understand what I was   saying though, about this field in McKees Rocks? ’ ’Smith: Yeah. ’ ’Kasich: You’’ve got all these different people   working on a single project. You know what happens? You get done   with your meeting, you go out and have a couple beers. And then   you’’re talking about the [Pittsburgh] Penguins, and the Steelers,   and the Pirates, and then all of a sudden, nobody cares about all   this political     OK? All of a sudden it’’s like, ”Hey man,   how’’re you doing?” as opposed to ”Who’’re you for?” ’ ’   You know what I mean? One of my boyhood friends  —   I can tell you   who it is, it’’s Judge [David] Cercone. He cannot talk to his   father, because his father is 90 years old, has these political   opinions. I don’’t even know how it happened. And I said, ”Dave,   we’’ve got to get your father off of that stuff.” I mean, I was   shocked to hear it. But he absorbs one kind of news and yells at   Dave about it. His father! Isn’’t that crazy. ’ ’Smith: I think a lot of people can relate to   that. ’ ’  ’ ”Kasich: I mean, that’s not where we want to   live, fighting with somebody over Donald Trump. I mean, are you   kidding me? Or Nancy Pelosi? I mean, what’re we thinking here? ” ”   I’m sorry, you were saying something about campaigns. ” ”Smith: So it was an   truth that during a   general election campaign, people would run to the center to get   those moderate,     voters that could swing either   way, that would swing an election. And people would campaign to   get that little 10% sliver. And now it seems like  —   and not only   in this past presidential election  —   but it seems like people,   candidates, no longer have to do that. And I’m curious what you   think. ” ”Kasich: Well, let’s forget about the   presidential election for a second and talk about Congress. All   this gerrymandering has just carved people up into safe   districts, but they’re not safe, because they have to fear   primaries. If you’re a Democrat, it’s from the left. If you’re a   Republican, it’s from the right. So it further polarizes people.   And then when you have the public, which is increasingly sort of   knowledgeable about what’s happening, compromise is like evil. So   the system is dysfunctional. Gerrymandering is horrific. ” ”   The role of money in politics is terrible, particularly when   you’re running for president. You get a handful of billionaires   who can basically buy the White House. It’s disgraceful. So the   changes need to come. There’s a Supreme Court case on   redistricting. I hope that the court rules and that the people   who were there win and they have to draw more reasonable lines.   We’re trying to do something about it in Ohio. On the   presidential side, I think because of the changing economy,   economics of America, people are very unsettled. And so there is   a different way in which you talk to people today because of the   fear that they have because of the economic change. ” ’Smith: So you were talking about gerrymandering.   Do you believe there is this sense that people are migrating to   places in the country where the ideologies are in cohesion. ’ ’Kasich: You mean like moving there? ’ ”Smith: Yeah, yeah. There’s a great migration of   people who have more liberal beliefs to move to coastal cities. ” ’Kasich: Really? ’ ’Smith: Yeah, and it could have more of an effect   than gerrymandering. ’ ”Kasich: I’ve never thought about that. I’ve   never  —   why are they doing that? (Looking at an aide in the   room.) Are you aware of that? ” ”Aide: I don’t know which comes first, why they   go to a particular state. Most cases, it’s because of the   economy. ” ’  ’ ”Kasich: Yeah, I think it’s more about jobs than   it is . .. ” ’John Weaver: I think a lot of it is about   lifestyle. ’ ’Kasich: Is it? ’ ”Smith: It’s definitely a mix of both. ” ’Kasich: Well, I really never thought about it. ’ ”Aide: I think they get there and change the   politics rather than go there because of them. Like right now,   North Carolina is complaining about how they’re getting too   liberal. ” ’Kasich: I don’’t think most people  —   let’’s take   things I know about Ohio. People go to Chicago because they think   it’’s cool, or they go to New York. But you know what they   ultimately do? They come back. I don’’t know anybody who says,   ”Well, I better move to Hawaii because they have better politics”   I think people move places, maybe lifestyle might be one thing   but that’’s not political. That’’s like, I’’m older, I want to play   golf, I want to live where it’’s warm. If you look at the most   rapidly growing states, where would they be? Florida, it’’s warm.   Texas? It’’s warm. I mean there aren’’t that many people heading to   Minnesota. Right, John? ’ ”   I mean, I don’t know. ” ”Weaver: I don’t know anyone moving to Minnesota. ” ”Smith: A couple of things about the early Trump   presidency. What do you believe to be the greatest success he’s   had over the first 100 days? And where do you think he’s come up   short? ” ”Kasich: I actually think the Syria strike   mattered, and I’ll tell you why I say it. I was at the Munich   [Security] Conference with John McCain. And people were really   wondering about the country. And I think that strike sort of   demonstrated, you know, like some American strength, which I   think some people wanted to see. I think that was good. And less   Twitter has been good. But it’s 100 days. You have somebody who   never held public office, right? And now all of a sudden, he’s   president. I mean, it’s really a big leap. And so there has to be   a learning curve in all this. ” ’   And hopefully he is learning. But there are some things going on   that I really don’’t like at all. Like ICE agents yanking people   out of their homes. It’’s terrible. I saw an interview with the   Homeland [Security] Secretary Kelly, who said, ”Well, if we knock   on their homes”  —   what do they call it?   ?      in America? So if we knock and we talk to them and   we find out they’’re here illegally, they’’re criminals. They’’ve   got to go. We ”can’’t turn a blind eye.” Really?   ?   Anyway. I don’’t like   . I’’m against   .   I will say that clearly. ’ ”Smith: So what do you think about the     stuff that he’s trying to do right now? ” ’Kasich: I don’’t believe in the sanctuary cities.   We have laws. You have to abide by the laws. Some people say,   ”Well, people will go underground and all that.” You just cannot   have people just looking the other way on everything. Now, I say      you know, I’’m not for    but I’’m   also not for sanctuary cities. ’ ’Smith: You mentioned Syria. Do you see evidence   that there is a strategy behind this? ’ ’Kasich: I have yet to see a strategy, but I do   think the act in and of itself did have an impact on the world in   the way they were looking at us. I do believe that. ’ ’  ’ ”Smith: What has surprised you most from Trump’s   early presidency? Anything he’s shifted on? ” ”Kasich: Well, a couple of things have surprised   me. The administration and Republicans are taking a lot of   positions that I took during the campaign. That’s not surprising   me, but in a way, it has. It’s sort of like, I shake my head.   China’s not a currency manipulator. We like NATO. We’re not going   to deport 13 million people. It’s interesting. You see, never in   my lifetime have I been called boring. But I think I was a boring   candidate for president because I tried to be responsible. And   one of the greatest problems I had is that I was governor. And so   as governor, I couldn’t actually say that this guy (pointing   at LoGiurato) could jump 12 feet in the air and slam dunk   over [Golden State Warriors star] Draymond Green. ” ’LoGiurato: You could say that. ’ ”Kasich: Yeah, but that would be what we would   call fake news. So I wouldn’t say these things. ” ’   I’’ll give you a good one. ”When I’’m president, I’’m ripping up the   Iran deal on Day One!” I haven’’t seen anybody rip up anything,   including a number of the members of the United States Senate. ’ ’Smith: So all of these things that you’’re   mentioning were all promised, especially the stuff that was   ”we’’re doing this on Day One,” it’’s clearly not happening. It   didn’’t happen. Do you see any evidence that voters who voted for   those things are reacting in a negative way when these things   aren’’t happening? ’ ”Kasich: I think it’s too early. I think there   will be great disappointment if all of a sudden there’s not   economic growth. Look, it always gets down to jobs. You don’t   have economic growth, things go south. If you have economic   growth, people feel better about things. You know that. People   would rather live in an area of poverty than in an area where   there are no jobs, because if they live in poverty, they have a   certain sense of hope they can get out of it. If there are no   jobs, there’s no hope. And bad things come from that. ” ”Smith: What do you make of the certain sectors   that President Trump has sort of focused his   capital   on? He’s definitely made a beeline on focusing on the   manufacturing sector, and, additionally, he’s really taken   an interest in the coal industry, which, being from the Midwest,   we both know is not what it once was. And there are other   industries like natural gas that are coming along and replacing a   lot of it. What do you make of all that? ” ”Kasich: Well, here’s the thing. The whole debate   about coal  —   coal is going to continue to be an important   component of our energy. It really has to be because renewables   haven’t come along to take them out. And even natural gas, you   want to have hedges to prevent against dramatic increases in     prices. But it’s not going to be the same, and even   the people in the coal industry say it’s not going to be what it   once was, OK? So there’s a certain reality that’s setting in. ” ’  ’ ”   Our biggest challenge in this digital age that we are entering is   how do we effectively begin to train people for the jobs that are   going to exist and not have them be stuck on jobs that are going   to go away? And this is a big deal. And it requires the   businesses of this country to, in my opinion, first of all,   demand changes in the education system and also develop   innovative, creative ways to have industries train people for the   skills that are necessary for the jobs that are coming. So I’m a   big believer in companies like Udacity, you know, but Udacity is   one company like that, but we need   education. ” ”   Look, I just called a couple of guys in the insurance industry. I   want them to put curriculum online that people can take at their   own speed and their own time, in their own home or the library,   and take the curriculum, pass it, and be guaranteed a job   interview in areas like basic insurance business. Because there’s   going to be a lot of change. Now, I hope I can get the insurance   industry to develop a curriculum and do that. That’s where this   has to go in my opinion. ” ”Smith: And I’ll do one last one before we do a   little bit of video, but I’m curious  —   you’re easily one of the   more outspoken voices on healthcare in the Republican Party. We   saw the first iteration of the Republican healthcare bill fail.   It was not very popular. There’s a huge debate in this country   whether to repeal the Affordable Care Act or fix it. ” ’Kasich: Well, you have to fix it, not repeal it.   We always say ”repeal and replace,” those are, like, political   words. And I could use that phrase, or I could say we need to fix   it. It needs reformed. And the exchanges need to be reformed. And   with Medicaid expansion, you can, over time, begin to return that   to a more reasonable match with the states. I mean, there are   ways to deal with this. I just don’’t want people being cut off. ’ ”   Look, I will tell you one campaign promise they ought not to   fulfill, and that is just repeal Obamacare without a decent   replacement. And I don’t know what’s going to happen. I can tell   you this, one of the things that I’m really concerned about is   that people who don’t have power are not priorities for people in   public life. Maybe it’s always been that way, but I see it more   starkly now. ” ’   Maybe because of my job as governor. So, if you’’re     ”Well, well.” If you’’re mentally ill, ”Well, well.” If you’’re   really poor, ”Well, you know, bootstraps.” This is concerning to   me because nobody should be left behind. And I see it happening   too much. And then we’’re going to fix Obamacare by repealing some   of the tax increases on some of the richest people in the country   and then have less resources to help people with mental illness   and drug addiction? It’’s foolhardy. It’’s nonsense. I don’’t buy   it. ’ ’ (The next part of the interview took place on Facebook   Live.) ’ ’ ’ ’Smith: Could you tell me one way in which   America is divided right now and what you believe needs to be   done to bridge that gap? ’ ”Kasich: Well, a lot of people who would watch   this know that there’s a lot of fighting going on in their family   and among friends about politics. It’s so crazy. There’s too many   other things to argue about, like   not Trump or not   Trump. And it’s gotten serious, and it’s gotten personal. People   are lining up in politics like they are for Sunday football or   Saturday football. ” ”   They are wearing these uniforms, red or blue, liberal or   conservative, and it’s not healthy, because it separates us. The   best way to build anything is to build it together and build it   with diversity, because then you really get good ideas about how   to be strong. And you need a strong foundation, which brings   about the notion that all of us in the neighborhoods, I still   consider myself to be one of them. I mean, I live in a regular   home, and I have kids that go to school, and I have a wife, and I   hang out at the gym. I mean, we have to build a strong   foundation. We have to find common purpose. ” ”   So I was thinking about this just a few minutes ago. Let me tell   you what would be a really, really great project for all of us.   Why don’t we start mentoring kids? Whether we’re liberal or   conservative, why don’t we start going into the schools and   giving the kids a sense of their own purpose, their own     their future, and what they can learn from us? You   know, if we’re mentoring kids together, we might actually begin   to talk to one another again and listen to one another. We   have a big crisis all over the country and in our state on drugs. ” ”   The single biggest way to stop the drug crisis is to educate   people on the fact that if you do it, it’s probably going to kill   you or it’s going to ruin your life. So why don’t we all work   together to stop that? We don’t have to be fighting about some   national security policy. Let’s start talking about the things   that pull us together, and then maybe we can send a message to   the politicians and the other leaders in the business world and   the sports world. Can we remember some decent values? Can we work   together? Can we solve problems? ” ’Smith: When we were speaking earlier downstairs,   you mentioned the United flight, and I thought you gave a pretty   good answer about that. So can you just explain for our viewers   what you thought that went  —   ’ ’Kasich: Well, let’’s think about United. First of   all, they must have had a series of rules where they did not have   judgment that came from the top. But then, as we get further   down, what were the people at the gate at the United employees?   Why didn’’t they say, ”We’’re not yanking this guy off, that’’s not   appropriate”? Organizations work well when they have a leader   that has a vision to take that organization to a better place.   And then you have followers in that organization that buy in.   Now, if the leader gets off track, why are the followers blindly   following? They shouldn’’t. And there are leaders within the   followers. Somebody should’’ve said something. ’ ”   Not just in that, but in so many things. You know, Wells Fargo,   there’s a perfect example. Opening phony accounts. Now, there   were people in that organization who complained, but the leaders   didn’t listen. So what I think we need to do is realize that   values matter, that virtue is good. Look, anybody who talks about   these kinds of things could be hoisted on their own     petard. That’s  —   you can Google that. ” ’ ’ ’   Here’’s the thing: We’’re all hypocrites. We all say one thing and   do another. But why don’’t we try to do what we say more than what   we don’’t? And so, when I look at United, I see a breakdown   throughout that company. But not just the guy at the top. But I   think also the people that were there that day saying, ”You know   what, I don’’t think that’’s how you treat a human being.” ’ ’   My wife says the problem is, ”John, when you ask people to speak   up and they have mortgages and kids, it’’s tough.” And it is   tough. And maybe that’’s why the managers and leaders within an   organization need to stand up. But these are not acceptable   things. And the reason why this went viral is because people feel   like nobody cares about them. ”Oh, I’’m just a passenger on a   plane. I’’m a widget. They’’re just going to yank me off.” The   people are now saying, ”Wait a minute, that’’s not right.” ’ ”   There is a growing sense in this country that being disconnected   is not good. And there’s also some people that are staying in   their silos and not coming out, but we have to pull them out, and   we have to pull ourselves together at some point, I think. ” ’Smith: Now, you met with President Trump, I   believe in [February] right around the time the American Health   Care Act. What did you discuss with the president in that   meeting, and how receptive was he? ’ ”Kasich: I told him about how I thought we should   reform healthcare. How receptive was he? Extremely receptive. I   even talked about the crisis with the pharmaceutical industry and   how the government has to have some leverage on these prices. You   know, I was there for a long time, and it was a very pleasant   meeting. Where it ended up was not where I wanted it to, and   that’s why I kind of stood against this healthcare bill. ” ”   But to tell you the truth, I don’t think the president has any   hard feelings about this, hard feelings about healthcare. I don’t   think he’s in stone on something. He’d just like to see something   get done. And I think there’s a battle for him inside that White   House. Those who want him to be more reasonable and those who   want him to be more hardline and whoever wins, it’s like a      and we’ll judge him on the basis of who he’ll listen   to. ” ’Smith: What side of that    do you think   is ultimately going to come out on top? ’ ”Kasich: I can’t predict. I don’t know. I just   can’t tell you. I’m going to watch. If at some point it works,   good, then I’ll be praiseworthy. If it’s something I think is   bad, when I think about it and there’s something I have to say,   I’ll say it. I’ve done that all of my career. Even when I was a   very young man. Just to give you an example, when Ronald Reagan   was president, I opposed US involvement in Lebanon. ” ”   I was one of 13, 14 Republicans who voted no against President   Reagan. It’s not my job to be reporting to any political   organization or office. It’s my job as a public official to try   to determine, with the help of my friends and advisers, what is   the best thing to do to serve the public, and that’s what I try   to do. And the chips fall where they may. You know, they’ve   fallen pretty well. ” ’   You know, I was a state senator, I was a congressman for 18   years. Now I’’ve been governor for two terms. Ed Koch used to say   when he ran for governor, he didn’’t win, and he said, ”But I’’m   mayor of New York, and that ain’’t bad.” Well, I may not be   president, but I’’m governor of Ohio, and that ain’’t bad. ’ ”Smith: As someone who formerly had a show on Fox   News, I’m curious what your thoughts on some of the developments   that happened over the past year. Roger Ailes is out. Bill   O’Reilly was just basically forced out. What do you think of the   culture at Fox News, and what do you think of what’s transpired   over the past year, which has been monumental? ” ’Kasich: Well, look, I was there about seven   years ago. I had my own show. I had a show on ”Heroes.” I used to   substitute for O’’Reilly. It was fine. If it wasn’’t fine, I   wouldn’’t have stayed. So there are changes going on. We’’ll see   how it all works out. But I don’’t think  —   I’’m not in the   management of Fox News. I think they’’re finding their way. I’’ve   had a private conversation with James Murdoch about Fox News, and   I just want to leave it there. ’ ’Smith: Now, the title of this book, ”Two Paths:   America Divided or United”  —   ’ ’Kasich: Now just think if I looked better how   many more books would sell. ’ ”Smith: It’s a pretty good cover. It’s a pretty   good cover. I’m curious  —   ” ’Kasich: Here’’s what I like (points to the   back cover of the book). I’’m giving this kid a  .   It’’s a fun story. So I was in Maryland. I think we were in   Annapolis. And people come backstage, like when you have concerts   and things. Well, some people came backstage to see me. Political   backstage. This dad brought his son. And he was a baseball   player. He was just a young kid. And I said, ”Well, let me see   your stance.” And then I said, ”Well, let me see you swing.” So I   gave him some tips, because, you know, I was nearly a     baseball player. Not really. ’ ’   But  —   so it was kind of fun. So I was out doing a town hall,   and I spied the kid in the audience, and I said, ”Hey, kid, come   up here. Show these people how your stance is and how you swing.”   That made that kid feel 10, 000 times better. Everybody cheered,   and they got a great picture, which that kid will probably keep,   and his father loved it. ’ ”   Politics doesn’t have to be a drag. It can be positive, and it   can be fun, and it can be inspiring. ” ’  ’ ’Smith: Now, recently, your longtime good friend   Arnold Schwarzenegger  —   ’ ’Kasich: Oh, I love Arnold. ’ ”Smith:  —   came out and said he would be   really excited if you ran for president again in 2020 in some   capacity. I’m curious what your response is. ”