’  ’ ’   It happened again  —   a North Korean missile launch exploded in the   air, over land, just a few minutes after launching on Friday. ’ ”   While North Korea can still learn a lot from a failed missile   test and use those lessons to advance their program, they’ve   failed to demonstrate capability with missile types the US   perfected in the 1970s  —   and cyber espionage may be to   blame.  ” ’   Asked about North Korea’’s unsuccessful missile test by CBS’’ John   Dickerson on ”Face the Nation” on Sunday, President Donald Trump   refused to address whether or not the US had anything to do with   the rogue nation’’s missile failures.  ’ ’   ”I’’d rather not discuss it. But perhaps they’’re just not very   good missiles,” said Trump. Pressed further on possible US   sabotage of North Korea’’s missiles, Trump did not deny it.   ” ’ ’  ’ ”   Indeed North Korea lacks the missile manufacturing infrastructure   of a world power like Russia or the US, but  uncovered   a secret operation to derail North Korea’s     program that has been raging for three years. ” ’  ’ ’   But to those in the know, the campaign against North Korea came   as no surprise.  a cybersecurity expert for    with experience in the NSA, told   Business Insider that cyberoperations like the one against North   Korea were actually the norm. ’ ’   While the fact that the US hacked another country’’s missile   program may be shocking to some, ”within military intelligence   spaces this is what they do,” Geers said. ”If you think that war   is possible with a given state, you’’re going to be trying to   prepare the battle space for conflict. In the internet age, that   means hacking.” ’ ’  ’ ’   North Korea’’s internal networks are fiercely insulated and not   connect to the larger internet, however, which poses a challenge   for hackers in the US, but Geers said it’’s ”absolutely not the   case” that computers need to connect to the internet to be   hacked. ’ ’     Furthermore, Geers said, because of the  and access points     to North Korea’’s  ”If it ever came     to cyberwar between the US and North Korea, it would be an     overwhelming victory for the West.”   ’ ’     ”North Korea can do a Sony attack or attack the White House,     but that’’s cause that’’s the nature of cyberspace,” Geers said.     ”But if war came, you’’d see Cyber Command wipe out most other     countries’’ pretty quickly.”   ’ ’It happened again  —   a North Korean missile. ..’ ’Your Editor (online now)’ ’’ ’’ ’’