’    ’ ’   Tim ”Treadstone” Gionet was not always a supporter of President   Donald Trump. ’ ”   The    internet troll, most widely known as Baked   Alaska, seemed to be an unlikely person to wade into the     mogul’s camp at the start of the 2016 election   season. ” ”   Back then, Gionet identified as a carefree, easygoing   libertarian. He supported Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul’s bid for the   White House, firmly opposed the war on drugs, and championed the   cause of Black Lives Matter, actively participating in the   movement’s street demonstrations. ” ’   And he worked at BuzzFeed, hardly an incubator for Trump   supporters. But Gionet was the exception. As he put it, ”BuzzFeed   turned me into a monster.” Specifically, a monster who opposed   what he saw as political correctness gone amok. He found refuge   with those who voraciously supported the freewheeling, brash   antics of Trump. ’ ’   ”I’’ll never forget this story,” Gionet said, recalling to   Business Insider the ”aha moment” that drove him toward Trump. ”I   was talking about the new Justin Bieber album. And I was like,   ’’Dude, that new Justin Bieber album is dope. I have to admit, I   love Justin Bieber. He is totally my spirit animal. ’’ And someone   came up to me and was like, ’’Hey bro, you can’’t say spirit   animal, that’’s culturally appropriating Native American culture   and that’’s not cool. ’’” ’ ’   ”I was like, ’’What? What the     are you talking about? ’’ I had   heard   …     about the dangers of political correctness, but I thought   this was just exaggerated,” Gionet said. ”I thought there was no   way people in real life could be like this.” ’ ”   Gionet said the incident, and others like it, sent him down a   path that ultimately led to his resignation from BuzzFeed   and eventual transformation into one of the internet’s most   notorious   trolls. ” ’   ”The thing that really attracted me to Trump was his stance   against political correctness,” he said. ’ ’   Gionet is something of a Forrest Gump of politics. He surfaced in   a number of places in the   universe during the 2016   presidential election. Upon leaving BuzzFeed, Gionet went on the   road as manager for   provocateur Milo Yiannopoulos’’s   college tour. He spent Christmas with blogger Chuck Johnson. And   he finished the campaign working with ”new right” personality   Mike Cernovich. ’ ”   During this time, his influence in the   internet   community grew. In addition to forging connections with the   right’s top internet celebrities, Gionet saw accelerated growth   on his own Twitter account. He gained thousands of followers,   arriving at the approximately 160, 000 figure of people who follow   him today on the social media platform. Gionet also became one of   the   leaders of the   meme army, using images of   characters like Pepe the Frog to bait those in opposition to   Trump. ” ’   And yet, despite the person he projected on the outside, some of   those closest to Gionet had reservations about how much he really   bought into the politics he now hawks. Many were surprised at how   far right he has veered. His politics strained personal and   professional relationships. ’ ’   In conversations with friends, family, and former   an   image of a kind but often lonely   genius emerged. One   who had reinvented himself several times in his life in a   desperate quest to fill the void of loneliness with fame and   attention  —   irrespective of the cost. ’ ’   ”I’’ve seen him happy, I’’ve seen him sad, I’’ve seen him doing   well, I’’ve seen him doing bad, but his whole thing is he wants   people to like him. So he wants to be famous,” said Joe Hood, a   former friend and colleague who worked at BuzzFeed Video with   Gionet. ”To me, his conflict now is that it was easier to get   famous without people liking him. And now he’’s famous, but no one   likes him.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Gionet was born in Anchorage, Alaska, to a family of of   eight children, five of whom were adopted from Russia. His   father, Paul, is a pharmacist. Susanne, his mother, is a nurse.   They are devout Christians and raised their children as such. ’ ’   The family also operates a   organization, Russian   Encouragement Ministries, which aims to spread the gospel and   provide medical supplies to orphanages in eastern Russia  —   a   cause his father said Gionet actively participated in during his   youth. ’ ’   ”Tim has come to Russia with us probably 15 times,” Paul said,   adding Gionet even speaks ”a little bit” of Russian. ”As a   kid, teenager, and young adult.” ’ ’   Upon graduating high school in 2006, Gionet left Alaska for Los   Angeles to attend Azusa Pacific University and study film and   marketing. During his time there, he said he scored a position at   Warner Bros. Records, where he was spotted by Kevin Lyman, the   founder of Warped Tour. He offered him a job. ’ ’   ”He was a nice guy. And I said, why don’’t you come work for me   for a bit?” Lyman said. ”He wasn’’t ’’Baked Alaska’’ at that point.” ’ ’   In fact, it was Lyman who helped give Gionet his     moniker. ’ ’   ”He’’s like, ’’You’’re in the entertainment business. You need to   have a name. All anyone cared about is you’’re from Alaska. Your   name is ’’Alaska,’’’’” Gionet said. ”I was like, ”OK? ’’ He was like,   ’’Trust me, you’’re from Alaska, that’’s all anyone is going to want   to ask you about. That’’s your name. ’’ He’’s like, ’’You need a name.   No one cares about Tim. They care about Alaska! ’’” ’ ’   ”I was like, ’’Damnit, this guy is a genius! This guy is right. I   need a name, I need an industry name to be known by,” he   continued. ”So my name was ’’Alaska. ’’ After a while I realized   just being called Alaska worked, but I needed to differentiate   myself. I needed to be more unique than Alaska. That’’s like   someone being named ’’Texas’’ or ’’Kentucky. ’’ You have to brand   yourself a little more. So I came up with ’’Baked Alaska,’’ because   at the time I was a stoner. So I was like the baked kid from   Alaska. And it’’s also a double meaning because it’’s a dessert.” ’ ’   Lyman said Gionet started as an intern but ”worked his way into a   paid position” doing social media and marketing with the Warped   Tour. Eventually, however, Gionet left. He said he briefly worked   in 2011 for Capitol Records before deciding to pursue a career of   his own in music. ’ ’   Gionet developed a rap persona which he described as a ”wild,   redneck,  ” character designed to take the ”web by storm.”   He filmed music videos for songs like ”Alaska Vacation” and   ”,” which featured him wearing   outlandish clothing items while rapping alongside scantily clad   women. ’ ’ ’ ’   ”He literally   …     turned up as this artist, ’’Baked Alaska. ’’ I   couldn’’t believe it,” Lyman said. ”I didn’’t think he had   aspirations of becoming an artist when he worked with me. He   never mentioned it.” ’ ”   The music videos, despite their rich production quality, failed   to achieve viral success. Nevertheless, word did get back to   Gionet’s deeply religious father, who expressed strong   disapproval at the content of the music. ” ’   ”I have seen some of his stuff in the past,” Paul said. ”Of   course, that makes us but heads because I don’’t approve of the   language. He knows I’’m at odds with his language.” ’ ’ ’ ’   Gionet was also not happy with his life as a rapper. He said he   became involved in the Los Angeles party scene and struggled with   drugs and alcohol, eventually seeking professional help to get   sober. He was also ”discouraged with how things were going” with   his career and decided to search for other opportunities in the   Los Angeles area. ’ ”   That’s when he came across a job opening at BuzzFeed. ” ’   ”BuzzFeed Motion Pictures needed a social media strategist,” he   said, ”and I happened to be the perfect fit for them.” ’ ’   He got a call about six months later. ’ ’   Gionet had hit a low point in his life. He made the decision to   leave Los Angeles for Alaska. Bags packed and on his way to the   airport, his phone rang. ’ ’   ”I literally had my suitcase packed up, wheeling it down the   stairs,” he explained. ”I called the Uber, I was going to move   back to Alaska, and I had my suitcase bringing it into my Uber.   And as I am putting my suitcase into the Uber car, I get a call,   and I’’m like, ’’What? ’’ And the call was from BuzzFeed.” ’ ’   Gionet said it came as a ”complete surprise.” He ”didn’’t   even remember” applying for the job. ’ ’   ”And I was like, ’’If you guys are really serious, I’’ll cancel my   ticket and go interview with you. But if you guys aren’’t that   interested, I don’’t want to waste my time,’’” he said. ”And they   were like, ’’No, no. We’’re really interested. You really fit what   we are looking for. And we promise you it won’’t be a waste of   your time. ’’ So I was like, ’’OK, cool. ’’ So I canceled my plane   ticket, went in and interviewed. They loved me and I got the job   right away. And this opened up a new chapter in my life.” ’ ”   Initially, Gionet said he loved working for the digital outlet.   As a   strategist, he was responsible for growing   BuzzFeed Video’s   accounts, including Tasty, its     staple that had just launched. Colleagues who worked   with him said he was brilliant at his job. ” ’   ”He did amazing things. He made the Tasty Instagram and Tasty   Twitter. And it became like the top 10 accounts in six months,”   Hood said. ”Some of that is BuzzFeed’’s brand but he is really       good at social media. Like, it’’s insane.” ’ ’   Working at BuzzFeed Video, Gionet also appeared in the outlet’’s   web videos. With his mullet and distinct clothing style, he   became a regular personality. He starred in BuzzFeed’’s ”If You’’re   Life Was ’’Making a Murderer’’” video, in addition to taking roles   in more traditional productions like ”Guys Swap Phones For A   Day.” ’ ’   But as politics moved from the backdrop to the forefront of media   during election season, Gionet said he became frustrated   with the direction of the outlet. ’ ’   ”When I started BuzzFeed, I was making videos about cats and beer   pong, OK? By the end of it, it was about feminism and white   privilege,” he said. ”I don’’t know when the shift happened, but   something happened in the culture where they were pushing these       agendas.” ’ ’   Gionet also morphed into a vocal Trump supporter and started to   wear his ”Make America Great Again” hat around the office. (He   even later had Trump’’s face tattooed to his arm.) ’ ’   ”Let’’s just say I got a lot of dirty looks and a lot of people   stopped invited me to the meetings. I’’m not     joking,” he   said. ”It was really weird once I came out public as a Trump   supporter at BuzzFeed. It was like I was a heretic, I was like   the guy no one wanted to talk to. All their opinions about me had   completely reversed and it was difficult.” ’ ’   Former colleagues seemed to corroborate his claims, telling   stories of Gionet, who they described as having social anxiety,   being the subject of jokes around the office. ’ ’   ”Definitely he was bullied in his department. It was all girls  —     so like they would laugh at him and stuff like that,” Hood said.   ”You don’’t wear a MAGA hat to an office where like 30% of the   people are gay. It wasn’’t the right thing to do and he was doing   it to instigate something.” ’ ’   Will Neff, who worked with Gionet at BuzzFeed, also said ”a few   of the girls in the office started joking that he looked like a   pedophile.” Neff said the pushback Gionet received for his views   seemed to push him further to the right. ’ ’   ”I think working at BuzzFeed made him eventually more   Republican,” he said. ’ ’   In an emailed statement, a spokesperson for BuzzFeed disputed   Gionet’’s claims of political discrimination, saying that ”any   suggestion that this former employee was treated unfairly for his   political beliefs is completely false.” ’ ’  ’ ”   Amid mounting tension with colleagues, Gionet left BuzzFeed for a   job managing Yiannopoulos’s college tour in 2016. He traveled the   country with the   provocateur, keeping his schedule and   planning the logistics for various events. ” ’   ”It was a great experience,” Gionet said. ”I got to tour around   and go to all the different college stops and put together the   tour budget and the press stuff.” ’ ’   As an assistant to Yiannopoulos, Gionet also traveled to the   Republican National Convention, receiving special access, through   the   outlet Breitbart, to various functions in   Cleveland. ’ ’   ”I got to meet Donald Trump,” Gionet said. ”He’’s a great guy. Got   to shake his hand and talk to him.” ’ ’   When Trump met him, he signed the tattoo of his face that Gionet   had inked to his arm. ’ ’   ”He was like, ’’Wow, that’’s great! ’’ And he thought it was great,”   Gionet said. ”He looked a little surprised. It’’s probably a   little funny to see your face on someone else’’s body.” ’ ’   Gionet and Yiannopoulos ultimately went their separate ways. A   person familiar with the matter said Yiannopoulos fired him for   an undisclosed reason. ’ ”   It was suspected Gionet had become a liability for Yiannopoulos,   as he had begun drifting further and further to the right. His   former colleagues took notice of Gionet’s increasingly extreme   views. ” ’   ”If you are going   of Milo, then you are in a very   extreme, extreme demographic,” said Neff, who also worked at the   libertarian Reason magazine and is familiar with the political   landscape on the right. ”There aren’’t many people that are right   of Milo. And there certainly aren’’t many people that are so far   right of Milo, that Milo felt the need to coach them back.” ’ ’   Others doubted how sincere he was in his views. ’ ’   ”He never was political,” Lyman said, speaking of his   relationship with Gionet. ”That’’s something he’’s invented for   attention more than anything.” ’ ’   ”I don’’t think Tim believes in anything,” said another former   employer, who spoke on the condition of anonymity over fear of   reprisals. ”I think Tim just wants someone to love him.” ’ ’   Briefly on his own after parting with Yiannopoulos, Gionet   remained active in the Trump movement. He drew on his musical   background to write songs and produce music videos aimed at   exciting Trump supporters. His most successful was a song called   ”MAGA Anthem.” It featured Gionet rapping lyrics like, ”Build the   wall, it just got 10 feet higher, build and build and build,   just build the wall” and, ”I just want to make America great, I   just want to have a Trump steak on my plate.” ’ ’ ’ ”   Gionet’s profile continued to rise, and he forged relationships   with many others on the right. One was Cernovich, who was   quickly growing his own brand as a   provocateur on   Twitter. ” ’   ”He was on Twitter,” Cernovich said, explaining how he first   encountered Gionet. ”He had been working with Milo and after he   had been finished working with him, I thought it would be cool to   have him do some of the same kind of event organizing while he   was working with Milo.” ’ ’   Cernovich hired him for an undisclosed amount of money and   the two worked on a project called MAGA3X until Election Day. The   idea was based off of Grant Cardone’’s book, ””  —   a   book aimed at   teaching readers how to 10X their life. In the case of MAGA3X,   the idea was to have each Trump supporter take three fellow Trump   voters to the polls on Election Day. ’ ”   And after Trump’s surprise electoral victory in November,   Gionet traveled to central California to spend   Christmas with . ” ’   ”We are friends,” Johnson said. ”He came up to visit me for   Christmas. I knew he wasn’’t going home for Christmas, back to   Alaska, so he hung out with me for a few days.” ’ ’   ”He stayed at my place for a few days. We played Monopoly a   bunch,” Johnson added. ”I’’m big into board games.” ’ ’   Gionet also led other   campaigns. Perhaps his most   famous was getting #TrumpCup to trend on Twitter and become the   subject of national headlines. The idea behind the hashtag was   for patrons of Starbucks to tell the baristas that their name was   Trump so that the employees would write it on the cups. The   campaign was prompted by a customer who said a Starbucks employee   refused to write ”Trump” on his cup.  ’ ’  ’ ”   The   descended into civil war following Trump’s surprise   victory  —   and Cernovich and Gionet were at the center of it. ” ’   In celebration of Trump winning the presidency, Cernovich   organized the ”Deploraball,” a party aimed at celebrating the new   breed of Republicans who had helped usher the billionaire into   the Oval Office. ’ ’   The party, which took place the night before Inauguration Day,   was initially set to feature several luminaries of the  .   But Cernovich said he wanted to ensure that the Deploraball   remained free of the racist elements for which the   had   become known. Moreover, he wanted to use the night to launch what   he has dubbed the ”new right,” a collection of nationalist,   populist Trump supporters who reject calls for a white    . ’ ’   Meanwhile, Gionet continued to radicalize. He   —   comments that were widely criticized   as   and that he now says he regrets making. ’ ’   Cernovich tried to tame Gionet, but it was to no avail.   Eventually, Cernovich chose to take action. In late December,   Gionet and white nationalist Richard Spencer were disinvited from   the event. ’ ’   The move to exclude him from the Deploraball infuriated Gionet.   He recorded a Periscope video, lashing out at Cernovich. ’ ’   ”Mike got upset that I was tweeting some things about Jewish   people,” he said. ”I don’’t hate Jews, but there are some things   that I like to talk about. I’’m  . I’’ve always been    . I’’ve never said I’’m not   unlike Mike   Cernovich, Paul Joseph Watson, Milo, and these other . I’’ve always been  .” ’ ’   Gionet stressed he regretted the comments he made about the   Jewish community, saying he was ”heated and misspoke.” ’ ’   ”It didn’’t come out how it was supposed to come out,” he said. ”I   have nothing but respect and love for people of all faiths,   including people of the Jewish faith. And I would never want them   to think that I think otherwise. And it does break my heart. It’’s   not my belief at all. I have no problem with Jewish people.” ’ ’   Months later, Gionet says he has mended his relationship   with Cernovich and matured as a person. ’ ’   ”I took things too far,” he said. ”I wasn’’t very mature and I   wasn’’t thinking about the consequences and so I realized that.” ’ ’   ”I’’ve been working on the last few months on humbling myself and   restoring relationships,” Gionet added.  ’ ’   Neff said he was not sure what to make of the apology. ’ ’   ”Is it genuine? I don’’t know,” he said. ”I haven’’t really spoken   to the kid in forever. I know there are some good things in him.   I know that that he’’s not just a     asshole in a vacuum.   There are some good things about this kid.” ’ ’   Most surprisingly, however, Gionet said he no longer associated   with the  . ’ ’   ”Here’’s the thing,” he said. ”The definition has changed so much.   I don’’t know if that describes me anymore.” ’ ’   ”Everyone seems to have a different definition of it,” Gionet   continued. ”To me, it means  . It means     different from   and there’’s   trolling and all that. But some of these other people say     means you are a Nazi or a white supremacist or white   nationalist. And I’’m like, ’’No, I’’m not down with that. I’’m not a   white nationalist. ’’ So I don’’t know. When people are asking me   now, I just say I don’’t like any labels. I am not going to   subscribe to any labels.” ’ ’  ’ ”   Gionet’s rise in the   universe has certainly brought   him a level of fame and celebrity that he lacked before. But it   doesn’t seem to have fulfilled him as a person. ” ’   ”When I was a kid all I dreamed about was being famous,” he wrote   in an email earlier this year, ”but once it happened I realized   it didn’’t fulfill the void in my soul like I thought it would.” ’ ’   Since the election, Gionet has looked to start making other   people famous. He launched the 907 Agency, a     firm that specializes in helping clients increase their   presence on the internet. His partner, David Bullock  —   who,   coincidentally, goes by the name ”Alaska”  —   said he works with   Gionet about three days a week. ’ ’   ”I saw him setting trends on Twitter and he saw me on Kanye   West’’s Saint Pablo Tour,” Bullock said in an email. ”We were both   making waves in different industries so we decided we would be   able to greater maximize results if we pooled our resources.” ’ ”   Gionet said he couldn’t yet disclose clients of the agency,   saying only that it included musicians and actors. ” ’   Moving forward, Gionet said he does not see himself ”as some sort   of intellectual” in politics, but more as an entertainer. ’ ’   But he has continued to remain active in the political   scene. Most recently, Gionet has been making trips to the   University of California, Berkeley, to support the rights of   conservatives to speak on campus. ’ ’   The   personality has also started working on a book   titled, ”.” ’ ’   ”I’’ve been a big part of putting together meme armies that helped   win an election, a presidential election,” he said. ”So many   people asked me about it.   …     So I decided to write a book about   it. This is in essence like the magicians revealing their   secrets. It’’s me a meme magician, telling people my story.” ’ ”   Gionet’s book is set to be released on July 7, 2017  —   or     .  ” ”   For Gionet, that’s no accident. ” ’   ”Seven is God’’s number and I’’m a Christian,” he explained. ”Seven   is the number of completion in the Bible.” ’ ’Tim ”Treadstone” Gionet was not always a. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’