’’ ”Ford sells seven   vehicles through its Ford Performance division. Anyone who buys one can take advantage of perhaps the greatest perk in the car world: a   of driving instruction at Ford’s Performance Racing School. ” ’The program is free to all new owners of Shelby GT350s and 350R Mustangs, Focus RS and STs, Raptor pickups, and Fiesta STs. (And something is under construction for the $400, 000 Ford GT supercar, which is just beginning to be delivered to the first of 250 customers in 2017. )’ ”All that’s required is that your get yourself to the Salt Lake City, Utah area and make your way to Utah Motorsports, where   versions of your car will be waiting for you, along with a group of experienced instructors with serious racing credentials. ” ”It’s called Track Attack, and while I was in Utah to test drive the new GT at the racing complex, I was put through the course, alongside a group of newly minted Shelby GT350 owners.” ”I’m under no illusions that I’m a good track driver, but I do have some track experience. Little did I know how much more I had to learn.” ”We were told we would be driving Shelby GT350s with   manual transmissions, so we needed to be able to comfortably extend our left clutching foot and keep a   bend in our arms when holding the steering wheel at 3 o’clock and 9 o’clock. James will later review the basics of the dreaded   shifting technique.” ’The GT350 has a 5.  V8 engine, dubbed ”Voodoo,” that can make 526 horsepower and, thanks to its   design, a sweetly aggressive exhaust note. You can pick one up starting at $57, 000, which is quite a deal for this much car.’ ’The tachometer is more important on the track because you want to know how hard your engine is running. This sucker redlines all the way up at 8, 200 rpm, meaning you can wind it out to nearly 100 mph in THIRD GEAR!’ ’ An instructor led us around at about 40 mph, so we could familiarize ourselves with the track, especially the entry points, apexes, and exit point of the corners.’ ’Oversteer is when the back end starts to move off on its own, leading to potential spins. Understeer is when the front end gets out of whack, which can send the car off the track.’ ’We learned about flags, too: green means go, yellow means be careful, black means get off the track, and the checkered flag means  —   you win! Actually, it means laps are over, head back to the pits. Red means . .. something very bad. Stop the car where you are and stay put.’ ’For a 526hp car with 429   of torque, the GT350 felt remarkably manageable to me. My confidence picked up and I could focus on braking and steering. The throttle took care of itself.’ ’So what did I learn?’ ”I’m pretty familiar with my weaknesses as a driver, so it was great to have   instructors help me overcome them. Typically, I don’t like to turn laps in cars as powerful as the GT350 because I feel as if I can never get the machine under control, but in Sport Mode the beast bent to my will and made me comfortable in a hurry (the magnetic ride control and traction management give you all sorts of margin for error).” ’I spent most of my laps in third gear, savoring that 8, 200 redline on the big   V8. This enabled me to concentrate on setting up my corners and hitting my apexes, while still hammering the GT350 down the straights and every so often hearing the   tell me  I needed to go to fourth. (That really just led me to prepare for breaking sooner, rather than lose time upshifting for half a second before downshifting and having to get my   right into the corner. )’ ’My biggest problem is looking ahead on the track: instructors told me all day to look ahead, look ahead, look ahead  —   put my eyes where I wanted my hands to steer the car. After a while, I got it, and my final lap was technically satisfying. I drove the track fast, but made good corner entries and exits and could feel just a touch of oversteer underneath me as I unwound the wheel and brought up the throttle.’ ”The instructors stressed a valuable rule: you have three main inputs and 100% to work with. You can use throttle, braking, and steering. If you’re at 90% throttle  —   building up speed on a straight, for example  —   that leaves you with only 10% available for braking and steering. If you’re using 80% steering in a corner, going too hard to the throttle  —   30% say  —   overloads the car by 10% and you could lose it.” ”As far as the program goes, it’s a   if you buy a Ford Performance vehicle (even a Raptor, for which there’s an extensive   course in Utah). Not only will you learn what your car can really do, you’ll meet   people and get some of the   instruction, on and off the track, you’re ever likely to experience. ” ”Oh, and you’ll get to do so amid some spectacular natural scenery.” ’ ’ ’Ford sells seven   vehicles. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’