“I must break you. ” I didn’t think I’d spend most of the new season of “The Walking Dead” thinking about “Rocky IV,” but here we are. On Sunday we got another extended seminar in the art of prisoner breaking, Savior style. This time it was Daryl’s turn, and unlike the zombie fighting, ax fetching and son threatening Rick faced, Daryl’s program involved a steady diet of dog food sandwiches, terribly cheery pop songs and the occasional beating. Despite all of that and his emotional agony about provoking Glenn’s murder, Daryl was not willing to subjugate himself to the Saviors. Which is to say, we learned he was tough. Of course, we already knew that. The creators of “The Walking Dead” often talk about wanting to put the audience inside the show  —   they used it to defend the Glenn Dumpster shenanigans, the   gimmickry of the Negan cliffhanger, the appalling violence in the season premiere. After that one, Scott M. Gimple, the showrunner, spoke on “The Talking Dead” about “looking for a way to break the audience” so they would believe Rick would do Negan’s bidding. While Daryl stayed strong on Sunday, the show definitely broke me with all the dog food and sound torture, though perhaps not in the way it intended. If you put us through a wringer without showing us anything revelatory about the character in question, it just gets annoying and worse: boring. So allow me to say “I’m Negan,” or whomever I need to be in order to avoid more “breaking” episodes. Sunday’s hour was broadly intended to introduce us to life in the Sanctuary, the Savior stronghold with a general atmosphere signaled by the title of the montage song: “Town Called Malice” by the Jam. We saw Dwight, the former Savior escapee turned conflicted   cuckold, enjoying a spoils sandwich as Negan’s other minions drank and fought. The ballad of Dwight was the other main thread of the evening. You’ll recall that we  —   along with Daryl  —   met him, Sherry and Tina last season during their flight from Negan, with Tina’s insulin in tow. Tina met her end when she flopped onto a pair of walkers. After evading a Savior search party, with Daryl’s help, Dwight and his wife, Sherry, betrayed him, taking his motorcycle and precious crossbow. On Sunday Negan filled in the blanks, explaining to Daryl, at great length, that the couple eventually returned to the Sanctuary and were punished for their crimes: Negan took Dwight’s wife for himself and fried his face for good measure, cowing him into productive subordination. “Now look at him,” Negan told Daryl. “One of my top guys, and we are totally cool. ” That’s what he thinks, maybe. We already knew that Dwight wasn’t thrilled by the trappings of the Sanctuary because he said as much last year. “People will do anything for safety,” he told Daryl the first time he met him. We now know what “anything” entails  —   lots of kneeling, bullying and being bullied, and, for the most luckless residents, tending or serving on the colony’s wall of walkers. Dwight didn’t look any happier about any of that on Sunday, spending most of the episode emotionally ambiguous at best. Sent to recover another escapee, he offers a halfhearted    defense of the Saviors  —   “we were losing now we’re not”  —   before shooting the man in the back. And his hostility toward Daryl came across as a combination of   and projected   Daryl’s inner strength a rebuke to the moral compromises Dwight made for his sandwich privileges. “I ain’t never gonna kneel,” Daryl said. “Yeah I said that, too,” Dwight said. By the end, Daryl gave Dwight a pass for his choices. But could a day be coming when the   one borrows some of Daryl’s strength and makes a move? • For the record, that unnervingly upbeat tune of torture was a previously unreleased song called “Easy Street. ” (You may know the vocalist, Petra Haden, from bands like That Dog or the Decemberists.) It’s now available on iTunes, in case you hate your neighbors. • Remember the Polaroid we saw a Savior taking at the end of the premiere? So does Daryl, now that Dwight has given it to him. Playing “Crying” in that scene was a bit on the nose, as they say, though it feels churlish to note it. I didn’t love this episode, but Norman Reedus gave a moving performance throughout. • As zombie attacks go, I enjoyed the      bit. • That said, are we supposed to think the motorcycle just falling over caused all that damage? And what are we to make of the shooting? Was it a mercy killing? Or did Dwight shoot the escapee in the back in order to preserve him for the wall? It wasn’t clear to me. • What did you think? What’s next for Daryl? Will he and Dwight team up? Which song, played incessantly, would break you? (This is mine.) Please feel free to weigh in the comments.