SWANSEA, Wales  —   The protests started even before the humiliation was done. Zlatan Ibrahimovic had yet to score his second goal, which would be Manchester United’s final one in a   victory over Swansea City on Sunday, but already the dull hum of mutiny flickered around the losing team’s Liberty Stadium. The songs began in the corner of the East Stand, where Swansea’s most vocal supporters are corralled. Each chant was greeted with a ripple of applause from the rest of the stadium. “We want our club back,” the first chorus went. The second demanded that “greedy” members of the board leave the club. A third suggested an explicit use for “dollars,” an allusion to the recent American takeover of the team. Bob Bradley, Swansea’s American manager, heard what he called the “back and forth” but tried to shut it out of his mind and focus on the game unfolding in front of him. The fans kept voicing their dissent as Manchester United waltzed through, almost unchallenged, once more. Over the last decade or so, Swansea has been British soccer’s   story, with an improbable rise that seemed to belong to another age. The tale proved so irresistible that it even made it onto celluloid. That movie, “Jack to a King,” depicts a club saved from financial ruin by lifelong fans and then lifted from oblivion and into the elite by a succession of young, imaginative managers preaching an adventurous style of play. It is, strictly speaking, a documentary, but it follows the narrative arc of a romance. For a while, it seemed that Swansea would have its happily ever after. In 2013, the club won its first major trophy in more than a century of existence, prevailing in the English tournament now known as the EFL Cup. The following season, the team, not far removed from the threat of extinction, earned a rare spot in one of the prestigious European competitions, the Europa League. That was only two years ago, but it seems like a lifetime. Devotion, all of a sudden, is in short supply in this corner of South Wales. Managers have come and gone with alarming, uncharacteristic frequency: Michael Laudrup, Garry Monk and Francesco Guidolin, who yielded to Bradley last month. Cornerstone players have departed. New owners  —   Steve Kaplan and Jason Levien, American sports executives  —   have arrived. The mounting discontent among supporters suggests that rapid change has not been universally welcomed. Results make it hard to disagree: Swansea has not won a game since the opening day of the season Bradley has picked up just 1 point from his first four matches in charge. The club is 19th in the Premier League, with the same point total as   Sunderland. The threat of relegation to a lower division is very real. Who is to blame is not entirely clear. The accusations of greed might have been directed at Kaplan and Levien, seen as speculators coming to profit from others’ hard work. Or the song might have been meant for Huw Jenkins, the chairman, and a number of other directors who made millions from the club’s sale this year but retain their places on the board. Who will play the role of lightning rod, though, is not in question. Bradley has spent much of his career awaiting a chance in the Premier League. Now he has it, and he is getting the full experience: not just the full stadiums, the razzmatazz and the chance to pit his wits against the likes of José Mourinho and Arsène Wenger, but the politics, the impatience and the cutthroat Darwinism, too. Wisely, he chose to avoid the issue of the protests, insisting after the match that the only way to “win the support of the fans is to play better and take points. ” He added, “The players, the coaches, the professionals  —   we have to focus on the only part we can control. ” Bradley, though, will not be afforded the chance to be neutral. To some fans, he is a manifestation of the second transformation in Swansea’s recent history. After its gleeful metamorphosis into a Premier League fixture, there is now the grudging mutation from local institution into international concern. It is Bradley’s nationality that condemns him. Danny Gabbidon, a former Wales international, said on the radio after the game that the accent of Bradley, a New Jersey native, meant that he “could not take him seriously. ” One fan, as the game petered out, loudly suggested that Bradley was “out of his depth. ” By that point, a goal from the Dutch defender Mike van der Hoorn had given the final score a veneer of respectability for Swansea and muted the worst of the dissent for the final 20 minutes of the match. The lull will not last. Some fans are convinced that Swansea is managed by an American because it is owned by Americans. To them, Bradley is a reason for unrest, not a victim of it. There are holes in this particular plotline. Swansea’s dramatic elevation was characterized by stability. From 2007 to 2014, Swansea employed four managers: Roberto Martínez, Paulo Sousa, Brendan Rodgers and Laudrup. Each joined a club with a clear vision of not only where it was going but also how it wanted to get there. Since Laudrup’s acrimonious exit, Swansea has had four managers in less than three years. The smoothness, that   mentality in which the club rolled on regardless of the man on the sideline, has long since disappeared. In December, Monk, a former player, was replaced by Alan Curtis, a trusted coach and local hero, on a temporary basis because the board did not have a successor in mind. Guidolin, an experienced Italian, eventually took the post  —   after not working for two years. He was hardly an obvious extension of Swansea’s reputation for stylish play. The players like Bradley and enjoy his training sessions, and the club’s staff members admire his insatiable work ethic, but the concerns about Guidolin apply to him, too. Whatever else he is, and whatever his passport says, Bradley is not cast from the same mold as Martínez and Rodgers. That does not mean he will be a failure, of course, and it does not mean he should be run out of town. But it does speak of a club that has, somehow, lost its sense of self. That development, most likely, lies at the root of the discontent among Swansea’s supporters. Swansea won admiration during its romantic period because of what it stood for: the idea that fans could run a club, and run it well the belief that style could bring success. Now, that story has ended, but nothing has emerged in its place. Swansea was different now it looks like any other Premier League club, owned from afar, its only ambition to survive, thinking from one game to the next. Wins would lift the pressure from Bradley, but they may not heal the deeper rift. What the club that wrote a tale worthy of a film needs, more than anything, is another script.