’  ’ ”   Refugee processing in the United States appears to be undergoing   a significant slowdown, even though courts have blocked the Trump   administration’s early efforts to suspend refugee admissions. ” ’   Ever since President Donald Trump signed an executive order in   January banning travel from seven   countries and   suspending refugee arrivals for 120 days, the Department of   Homeland Security has refrained from interviewing refugee   applicants, . ’ ”   Homeland Security officials and several refugee resettlement   groups told The Post that they were not aware of any interviews   that had taken place since Trump’s first travel ban was issued,   even though multiple federal judges have since blocked parts of   two executive orders Trump signed on the issue  —   the  signed in January and the  in March. ” ’   A bipartisan group of senators has sent a  to Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly and   Secretary of State Rex Tillerson asking for details on the   operations of the US Refugee Admissions Program, and whether   interviews are still being conducted. ’ ’   ”According to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees,   we are in the midst of the largest refugee crisis in modern   history,” the letter read. ”We must not lose focus of the need to   also protect others fleeing persecution around the world.” ’ ’   Democratic senators Jeanne Shaheen of New Hampshire, Cory Booker   of New Jersey, and Kirsten Gillibrand of New York were among the   signatories, as were Republicans Marco Rubio of Florida, Jeff   Flake of Arizona, and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska. ’ ”   Refugee resettlement agencies have even begun cutting back on   their overseas staff due to the slowdown. Jen Smyers, director of   refugee policy and advocacy with the Church World Service, told   The Post she’s never seen a   suspension of the   admissions program. ” ’   ”Refugee processing has ground to a halt,” she said. ’ ’  ’ ’   A State Department spokesperson told The Post the department is   ”continuing to admit refugees” in ”conformity with the Department   of Justice’’s guidance regarding the Court Order,” including   scheduling travel for refugees who have already been screened and   approved, and scheduling and conducting additional     interviews. ’ ’   Trump has frequently called for fewer refugees to be allowed into   the US, due to fears that terrorists posing as refugees could   gain entry. Amid the worldwide refugee crisis that has worsened   in recent years, former President Barack Obama had proposed   raising the refugee admissions cap to 110, 000 in fiscal year 2017   from 85, 000 in 2016  —   but Trump in his original travel ban   lowered the cap to 50, 000. ’ ’   The US accepted 2, 070 refugees in March and 3, 316 in April  —   the   two lowest monthly totals since 2013, according to a  of the State Department’’s Refugee   Processing Center. The State Department told the newspaper it had   ”adjusted the pace of refugee arrivals” in response to the   lowered refugee cap. ’ ”   The refugee program isn’t the only immigration process that   appears to be undergoing a slowdown in recent months. The   senators’ letter comes just days after a Human Rights First   report documented 125 instances between November and April of     being turned away from US border entry points by   customs agents, without so much as an interview with an asylum   officer, as is required by law. ” ’   The extent of the rejections at the border is unclear, as data is   not kept on how often customs agents deny   entry to   the US. Human Rights First told  the number is likely far higher than 125,   as most migrants do not contact lawyers or American advocates   after they are denied entry. ’ ’   Trump has not issued any directive to customs agents to reject     and Customs and Border Protection told The Times   that their agents process all   for interviews with   asylum officers. ’ ’Refugee processing in the United States appears. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’