’  ’ ’   The modern history of the ”deep state” in American politics  —     real or imagined  —   starts with real leaks of classified   information and ends as a conspiracy theory on popular yet   dubious websites. ’ ”   And how it got there raises serious questions about whether the   intelligence community is trying to subvert a new president or   whether it’s a convenient scapegoat for an administration that’s   had its share of early foibles. ” ’   A deep state is a network of influential members of a   government’s agencies or military who operate against a   democratically elected government. It might work to undermine an   elected president’s authority or legitimacy and has been common   in countries such as Egypt and Turkey. ’ ’   The concern in the US started shortly after Donald Trump took   office. In early February, The New York Times and The Washington   Post published a series of explosive    into the Trump campaign’s communications with Russian officials   during the 2016 election. ’ ’   The reports, citing anonymous officials, revealed that then     adviser Michael Flynn had discussed US   sanctions on Russia with Russian ambassador Sergey Kislyak before   Trump took office, despite Flynn’s claims that he and Kislyak had   not discussed anything sensitive during their phone calls. ’ ’   The next day, The Times  on what it said were ”repeated contacts” that   Trump associates had with Russian officials during the campaign.   CNN  that night in which sources said   communication between Trump associates and Russian officials   during the campaign was “constant. ” ’ ’   Flynn resigned a short time later. ’ ’   Attorney General Jeff Sessions later had to recuse himself from   any Department of Justice investigations into the Trump   campaign’s ties to Russia after additional leaks revealed that he   had also had contact with Russian officials during the campaign. ’ ’   The steady drip of classified leaks about President Trump’s young   administration has led some to speculate about the . ’ ’   The term is derived from the Turkish ”derin devlet,” which refers   to an intricate network made up of government officials, often   including those from the military and intelligence communities,   whose primary goal is to subvert a democratically elected   leader’’s agenda and ultimately remove that leader from power. ’ ’  ’ ’   Turkey’s deep state is tethered to the army but consists of   elements from the intelligence community, the judiciary, and the   mafia. Turkish leaders, like current President Recep Tayyip   Erdogan, have waged political campaigns aimed at inciting public   anger against the deep state. ’ ”   In Egypt, less than a year after former Egyptian president   Mohammed Morsi was elected into office by the people, Gen. Abdel   Fattah   backed by Egypt’s military might, detained Morsi   and toppled his government.   is now Egypt’s head of state.    ’s ascent to power is thought by many to have been the   result of an Egyptian deep state’s response to the 2011 Arab   Spring. ” ’   But experts and former government officials have warned against   using the term deep state to refer to rifts between the US   president and the intelligence community. ’ ’   The deep state, as it exists in Turkey and Egypt, has two   defining characteristics, Aykan Erdemir, a senior fellow at the   Foundation for Defense of Democracies, told Business Insider.   First, it involves cooperation across multiple government   agencies, like intelligence officials, military officials, and   often executive branch officials. Second, the execution of the   deep state’s agenda often results in bloody outcomes. ’ ’   ”You see dramatic results like assassinations, mass killings,   pogroms, bombings  —   it’s not about tension between the executive   and the bureaucracy, it’s not about a failure to work together,”   Erdemir said, adding that he would recommend ”extreme caution” in   adapting the term ”deep state” from other political cultures and   applying it to the US. ’ ’   ”’’Deep state’’ I would never use,” Michael Hayden, the former CIA   director who served under Presidents Obama and George W. Bush,   told MSNBC in March. ”That’s a phrase we’ve used for Turkey and   other countries like that, but not the American republic.” ’ ’   But soon after the possibility of the beginnings of an American   deep state was first raised by the mainstream media, the idea   took hold of the   media, quickly reaching a fever pitch. ’ ’   ”The Deep State Bumps off General Flynn. Who’’s Next?” blared a   February  after the resignation of Flynn. The   article pointed to the mainstream media as an arm of the deep   state, saying that the ”ultimate target, of course, is Trump   himself.” ’ ’   InfoWars editor at large Paul Joseph Watson recorded a  posted   to YouTube in early March titled ”The Deep State War on Trump.” ’ ’   ”Purge your administration of this globalist fifth column. There   can be no compromise. These people literally want to overthrow a   democratically elected government,” Watson said. ’ ’   From the fringe, the idea of a deep state working against the   Trump administration made its way to the mainstream conservative   media. ’ ’  ’ ’   Fox News host and ardent Trump supporter Sean Hannity reiterated   Watson’’s words  that aired a week after Watson’’s video was   posted on YouTube. ”Tonight, it’’s time for the Trump   administration to purge these saboteurs before it’’s too late,”   Hannity said, referring to ”    government   bureaucrats who are hell bent on destroying this president.” ’ ’   And from there, the fears of an American deep state powered by   intelligence leaks, which started out as mild speculation and   reached the heights of conspiracy theory, made their way to the   halls of Washington. ’ ’   Trump has repeatedly and emphatically expressed his belief that   there has been a concerted effort, fueled by politicians, those   within the intelligence community, and the ”fake news” media, to   undermine his presidency and policy agenda. ’ ’   He notably accused the former president, without evidence, of   personally ordering the surveillance of phones at Trump Tower.   Trump likely made the accusation based on a monologue by     radio   host Mark Levin and a Breitbart     of Levin’’s belief that there is a ”silent coup” underway   to overthrow Trump. ’ ’   The president has also publicly castigated the media and the   intelligence community. ’ ’   ”Leaking, and even illegal classified leaking, has been a big   problem in Washington for years. Failing @nytimes (and others)   must apologize!” Trump  shortly after Flynn resigned. ”The spotlight has   finally been put on the   leakers! They will be   caught!” . ’ ’   In a meeting later with several members of Congress, he added:   ”We’’re going to find the leakers, and they’’re going to pay a big   price.” ’ ’   As the media continued publishing classified information, Trump      that ”information is being illegally given to the failing   @nytimes & @washingtonpost by the intelligence community (NSA   and FBI? ). Just like Russia.” ’ ’   ”The real scandal here is that classified information is   illegally given out by ’’intelligence’’ like candy,” . ”Very  !” ’ ’   Trump’s loyalists quickly followed his lead, pointing to the   intelligence leaks as a key piece of evidence they say supports   the existence of an American deep state. They’ve also   consistently singled out Trump’s chief White House strategist,   Steve Bannon, as a source of knowledge on the American deep   state. ’ ’   Bannon is the former head of Breitbart, a largely     outlet that has published a  of  asserting the  of an American deep state. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”We are talking about the emergence of a deep state led by Barack   Obama, and that is something that we should prevent,” Iowa Rep.   Steve King . ”The person who understands this   best is Steve Bannon, and I would think that he’’s advocating to   make some moves to fix it.” ’ ’   Echoing Hannity’s and Watson’s words, King later said that Trump   ”needs to purge the leftists within the administration that are   holdovers from the Obama administration, because it appears that   they are undermining his administration and his chances of   success.” ’ ’   Trump adviser and former House Speaker Newt Gingrich also   believes in the deep state and said he discussed the concept with   Bannon. ”Of course, the deep state exists. There’’s a permanent   state of massive bureaucracies that do whatever they want and set   up deliberate leaks to attack the president,” Gingrich  in March. ’ ’   ”This is what the deep state does: They create a lie, spread a   lie, fail to check the lie and then deny that they were behind   the lie,” Gingrich said. ’ ’   He added that he and Bannon had discussed the idea and that   Bannon compared its perils to the plot of the new season of   ”Homeland,” which includes a storyline in which career   intelligence officials try to undermine the  . ’ ’   Though Bannon has never used the term ”deep state” publicly, he   has repeatedly expressed distrust toward American institutions   and the intelligence community. ’ ’   After he was removed from his post on the National Security   Council in April, Bannon said that he was put on the council to   ”ensure that it was ” and added that the NSC   has now returned ”to its proper function.” ’ ’   Despite the theories and headlines, the leaking of classified   information is not all that unusual and not enough to prompt   suspicions of a legitimate deep state in the US, according to   former intelligence officials. ’ ’   Intelligence leaks ”happened during the Clinton administration,   the Bush administration, and long before that,” Bob Deitz, a   former NSA and CIA veteran who worked under presidents Clinton   and Bush, told Business Insider. ’ ’   ”It’’s possible that they came from directly within the White   House, perhaps from people from the intelligence community on   loan to the White House,” he added. While the classified leaks   that have been published in the media have reflected poorly on   the administration, ”there are a lot of leaks from people in the   White House that reflect badly on them. Just look at all the   reports of infighting between Bannon and Kushner,” Deitz said.     ’ ’   ”There have always been scandals,” Glenn Carle, a former CIA   clandestine services officer and an expert on national security,   told Business Insider. ”The torture black sites were leaked, the   Pentagon Papers were leaked, the 1964 Gulf of Tonkin incident was   leaked. This is not new.” ’ ’   Both Carle and Deitz added that more often than not, leaks of   classified information come from the Hill. ”It is rare for them   to come from the    of the CIA” or other intelligence   agencies, Carle said. ’ ’  ’ ’   The dangers of a president and his allies believing in the   existence of a covert effort to undermine him are profound,   experts say, and it has placed those in the intelligence   community in a tough position. ’ ’   ”The president has cast doubt on proven truths, undermined the   laws, undermined the judiciary, the free press, the intelligence   community,” Carle said. ”He’’s undermined the very values upon   which this society was built. So, what do you do if you’’re an   intelligence official? If you serve the state, you betray it. If   you betray the state, you betray it,” he continued. ’ ’   This dilemma, Carle said, has been widely discussed among those   in the intelligence community, who have been forced to assess   which is the greater threat: Trump’s ”authoritarian tendencies”   which threaten ”the fabric of the nation,” or the clear     risks posed by a sustained stream of classified   information being made public. ’ ’   In this particular situation, in which the president of the US’’s   campaign surrogates are under an active counterintelligence   investigation for their suspected ties to a foreign power, ”when   leaks come from the intelligence community, it’’s not to undermine   the president or to protect the deep state. It’’s to protect   democracy  —   it stems from a sense of profound patriotism,” Carle   said. ’ ’   Whatever the cause, classified information being leaked on a   prolonged basis is treacherous, because it can send a   message to the broader US intelligence community and government   officials that leaking information is permissible. ’ ’   ”Everybody knows the White House has leaked information in   pursuit of various foreign policy objectives throughout American   history. When people see that, they might think, ’’So, leaks are   OK when the White House does it, but not OK if they come   from somewhere other than the White House,’’” Deitz said. ”You   lose the moral high ground.” ’ ’   There are a number of   risks that can result   from tension between a president who believes he’s being   undermined and the government officials or agencies who find   themselves the target of that president’s ire. ’ ’   ”By definition, information is classified because its release   could jeopardize national security,” Deitz said, adding that   while there are instances of   ”people cannot   decide for themselves what information is OK to leak and   what isn’’t. It doesn’’t work that way.” ’ ’   If the administration continues to publicly attack the   intelligence community based on the belief that the national   security apparatus is working against it, that could also open   doors to hostile foreign powers looking to infiltrate American   society. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”I spent my career exploiting the positions into which foreign   officials were placed when they wanted the best for their society   and wanted to uphold the oaths they made to their laws, and yet,   the actions of their government undermined the very oaths they   took,” said Carle. ’ ’   Now, he said, American intelligence officials may well be in the   same position. ’ ’   ”This is a gold mine of opportunity for foreign intelligence   services,” he said. ’ ’   There are other   risks posed by the actions of a   president who believes in the existence of a shadow government.   In some cases, it has placed intelligence officials in the   position of having to determine whether they can share   information with their   . ’ ’   In February, for instance,  that US intelligence   officials had withheld some sensitive information from the   president. Though information has been withheld from presidents   and congressional members in the past, officials told The Journal   none of those past decisions were affected by concerns about   a president’s trustworthiness or discretion. This decision to   withhold information from Trump highlighted the ”deep mistrust”   between Trump and the intelligence community. ’ ’   And if the rift between a White House that believes it’s being   undermined by the institutions designed to serve American   interests and those institutions themselves continues to widen,   the risks to national security could be almost as severe as those   posed by a legitimate deep state. ’ ’   ”The deep state does not exist in fact but it exists in the minds   of Trump supporters. That’s just as much a threat to society,”   Carle said. ’ ’The modern history of the ”deep state” in. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’