’  ’ ’   When the  on   Thursday, Republican lawmakers made their way to the White House   for a celebration.  ’ ’   President Donald Trump joked with House Speaker Paul Ryan,    the speaker didn’’t ”have it.” Ryan hailed the passage of   the legislation he spearheaded successfully  —   finally, after   three tries. ’ ’   ”We’’ve got a lot of work to do, but one thing is now clear:   Republicans are committed to keeping our promise to lift the   burden of Obamacare from the American people and put in place a   better, more   system,” Ryan said. ’ ’   The celebration might have been premature. ’ ”   The bill has a long way to go to reach Trump’s desk  —   starting   with the Senate, which could present an even more difficult   process than the fits and starts the AHCA faced in the   House. ” ’’ ’   A mix of politics and arcane Senate procedure could sink the AHCA    —   or totally alter what it looks like. ’ ’   The AHCA went through multiple different versions before   Republican leaders found a coalition of enough moderate and   conservative members to join together to pass the bill. But   despite amendments offered to the AHCA by the House Republicans   to get enough members on board, Republican senators have   expressed serious doubts regarding the bill. ’ ’   Sen. Lindsay Graham, who had been against the original version of   the AHCA, conveyed reservation about the final edition, too.   Graham tweeted on Wednesday that the bill ” ’ ’   ”My primary duty and job is to ensure this bill  —   if it were to   become law  —   would be beneficial to the people of South   Carolina,” Graham said in a statement after its passage. ”Only   after a careful review of the legislation, as well as discussions   with the interested stakeholders across South Carolina, will I   know the answer to that question.  I do know the revised   bill is an improvement over the first attempt.” ’ ’   Some   GOP senators, including Ted Cruz of Texas,   Rand Paul of Kentucky, and Tom Cotton of Arkansas, all expressed   misgivings about the bill during its consideration in the House. ’ ’   In fact, the Senate appears ready to  of a   healthcare bill. A group of 12 GOP senators, including   Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, have begun to work together on   separate legislation. ’ ’   ”It was kind of a moot issue if the House wasn’’t going to be able   to pass a bill and now they have, and I’’m proud of them for doing   it,” Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn said. ”Now it’’s up to us to   pass a bill 51 senators can agree to.” ’ ”   If the Republican senators are able to come up with a   way to get a bill past the Senate, that would open up   another can of worms. After the House passed its version of the   legislation, House members signaled they wouldn’t accept many   alterations in the Senate  —   even as Republican senators said they   were preparing their own bill. ” ”   Rep. David Brat, a member of the conservative House Freedom   Caucus who refrained from supporting the AHCA until amendments   were added,  he wants to see the AHCA as it   stands now to get to Trump’s desk. ” ’   ”None, not at all,” Brat said when asked how much change he would   accept to the AHCA in the Senate. ”It’’s about time [the Senate]   get a dose of medicine. . .. They change it one iota . .. they   better not change it.”  ’ ”   Those types of comments, and fundamental disagreements about some   of the provisions of the law, don’t seem to bode well for   its future. If the Senate passes a different bill, House and   Senate members will need to form a conference committee to iron   out the differences. ” ’   ” ”Not out of   the question, but unlikely.  ’ ”   Republicans in the Senate could run into another problem  —   their   chamber’s rules. ” ’   In order to avoid a Democratic filibuster, the GOP has been using   the budget reconciliation process to pass the healthcare bill.   That means it would only take a simply majority in the   Senate to pass, but it also means it would be subject to a   different set of rules. ’ ’   Among those: the Byrd rule, which requires that all provisions in   a bill that goes through the reconciliation process has to   deal with the federal budget. ’ ’   That means various parts of the AHCA, like gutting Obamacare   regulations on insurers,  ’ ’   ”The House has an untenable task of trying to craft a bill that   will fit through the matrix of the Byrd rule,” Republican Rep.   Trent  in March, when the original version of the AHCA was   released. ”It’’s essentially like trying to force a giraffe   through a keyhole. If you get the job done, he looks a little   differently on the other side.” ’ ’When the House passed the American Health. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’