’’ ’San Franciscans obsess about burritos the way New Yorkers fawn over pizza and bagels.’ ’I recently set out to find the best very burrito in the City by the Bay.’ ’’ ’This was not a   review, as ’ ’The burrito  of Mexico in the 19th century, where workers brought their lunches of beans and salsa in corn tortillas. Over the next 100 years, the   food made its way north to a Latin neighborhood of San Francisco known as the Mission.’ ’Local restaurateurs riffed on the Mexican food staple, adding extra rice and other ingredients. The burrito got bigger. Its low cost caused it to take off.’ ”Today, you can find what’s called the   burrito in dozens of San Francisco taquerias, as well as .” ’Here are all the taquerias I visited.’ ’’ ’’ ’There are lots of reasons to love  from the premium menu options to the folksy artwork. The regular burrito is about as basic as they come, however.’ ’A tortilla (available in flour, whole wheat, comes filled with beans, rice, cabbage salad, pico de gallo, and a meat of your choice. I ordered the carnitas option but was disappointed by the lack of spiciness. No one ingredient stood out as spectacular.’ ”Pro Tip: Upgrade to one of the restaurant’s specialty burritos. My favorite is the Fried Plantain & Black Bean Burrito, which is so flavorful it satisfies even a   like me.” ’La Taqueria might be the most awarded burrito joint in America. In 2014, the   restaurant came out on top of . La Taqueria   .’ ”When my burrito landed in front of me, I was surprised. It was very small compared to others I’d eaten. I soon saw why here was no rice. La Taqueria’s burrito had copious amounts of   slightly tough beef as well as juicy pinto beans. The flour tortilla felt soft.” ”It was undeniably a very good burrito, but it just didn’t feel right without the rice. I find that rice helps a burrito keep its moisture and bring together the ingredients.” ”El Farolito might be better known as La Taqueria’s chief rival. In San Francisco, it’s impossible to talk about the merits of one without someone jumping in to defend the other.” ’The burrito here is a hefty   unlike the one I ate at La Taqueria. Oversized chunks of chicken were perfectly seared on the outside and tender on the inside. Rice wet with salsa helped congeal the ingredients, keeping the burrito moist and giving each bite a little kick.’ ’After eating, I decided the other burritos would have their work cut out for them.’ ”Papalote Mexican Grill has been quietly gaining traction in San Francisco’s burrito circuit. The restaurant  for its which it sells in jars for $7 each.” ’This   restaurant is also home to the wettest burrito I tried for this article. Every bite sent chile verde salsa streaming down my chin. The shredded pork and fresh pico de gallo salsa added a variety of textures. But the burrito quickly became a soupy mess.’ ”Located down the street from   La Taqueria and El Farolito, Taqueria Cancún offers fast, reliable service and a fine   burrito. In FiveThirtyEight’s Burrito Bracket, it  when it beat out El Farolito in the rankings.” ’Evenly distributed ingredients, the perfect amount of rice, and a punchy (but runny) salsa come together in a burrito that I would happily buy if the lines ran long at El Farolito.’ ’HRD Coffee Shop (named for the Human Resources Department is the wild card in the burrito competition. The menu is inspired by ’ ’’ ”The pork was tender and spicy on its own. I’m eager to return and try the  I’m not sure HDR would satisfy a burrito craving like others on this list would.” ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’Step aside, La Taqueria. El Farolito has the best burrito in San Francisco.’ ”The burrito here is the whole package. Expertly charred chicken, a proportionate helping of rice, and plump pinto beans come together in a flaky   burrito that satisfies with every bite. It’s wet, but not sloppy. Spicy, but not overwhelmingly so.” ”That said, choosing the best burrito in San Francisco is like choosing a favorite child. Each one brings something special to the table, including Taqueria El Castillito’s perfectly seasoned carne asada and Taqueria Pancho Villa’s salsa made from fresh peppers and onions.” ’And the best burrito in San Francisco will likely be different for every person based on their preferences. I only tried meat options, but I hear Papalote Mexican Grill  —   with its marinated tofu, grilled veggie, and ”soyrizo” burritos  —   is a must if you’’re a vegetarian.’ ’But El Farolito takes home the title today.’ ’San Franciscans obsess about burritos the way. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’