’  ’ ’ Jamie Dimon is sounding the alarm. ’ ’ The chairman and CEO of JPMorgan Chase has taken the   opportunity on a number of occasions in recent weeks to highlight   problems in America, including its  and . He has set   out some . ’ ” Dimon’s influence beyond Wall Street seems to be at a   peak. He’s the chairman of the  at a critical time, with a   White   House opening its doors to business CEOs. He crosses the   political divide: a registered Democrat, he said recently   . The bank he heads last   month reported a strong set of   profits, with   . ” ’ Business Insider travelled on May 5 to speak with Dimon at   the Alfred E. Smith Career and Technical Education High School in   the South Bronx, New York. We talked about education, the   economy, and the Trump administration. JPMorgan Chase   had just announced a . ’ ’ This interview has been edited for clarity and length. ’ ’Matt Turner: Why are initiatives like this one   in the South Bronx so necessary right now? ’ ’Jamie Dimon: We’’ve made a huge effort globally   and in the US, in getting kids jobs. This is one piece. The South   Bronx and   schools need it more than most. It’’s our   hometown; JPMorgan Chase banks a lot of people here. My wife   [Judy Dimon] does a lot here, and so they’’ve been pounding it:   ”We need to do more in the South Bronx.” We need to get kids   getting out of high school, who go on with a job, or go on to   college and that leads to a job. ’ ’  ’ ”   We’re making an effort. We have some great partners here. If you   see the school, it works. You saw the kids today. They’re all   getting jobs, they’re smiling, they’re proud of themselves.   That’s what we need to do in   schools. ” ’Turner: You’’ve said that ”the lack of economic   opportunity for young people in the South Bronx is a moral and   economic crisis.” How did this happen? ’ ”Dimon: It’s not just this area. You have   unemployment now going  but if you go to a lot of inner cities,   unemployment among youth  —   think ages 17 to 25  —   is 20% or 25%.   The fact that parts of the country are doing well doesn’t mean we   shouldn’t focus on the part that isn’t. ” ”   Part of the problem is that jobs haven’t been done locally. These   kids can get jobs with the MTA. There’s a distribution company   down here, they know what these kids have been trained in, they   were part of the training effort. Locally, if you go to Texas,   they need welders. If you go to other areas, they need people who   can do construction, plumbing, electrical work. Business has to   be involved locally with civic society, in this case schools, to   get the kids trained to have a job. ” ’   There are plenty of jobs out there. When people talk about the   problems, I would say, ”What’’s the solution? What’’s the outcome   you want? How are you going to get there?” Civic society has to   do it together with business. It’’s not going to work with one   without the other. ’ ’Turner: You talked recently about a lost   generation, of people being left behind. What has the effect of   that been? ’ ’Dimon: When people talk about people being left   behind  —   middle wages have not gone up for years, and we should   recognize that, and there I think we need growth and skills  —   but   there are these other people who have been left behind. When I   say out loud, ”Fifty percent of   schoolkids do not   graduate from high school,” that is a national catastrophe. We   should be ringing the alarm bells. It’’s not fair. ’ ’  ’ ”   We were a land of opportunity. You can never have equal outcomes,   but you can have equal opportunity. Among those kids, we might   have had a Colin Powell, an Albert Einstein, we’ll never know. I   just think it is part of running a good society. People should   get involved in fixing that particular problem. ” ”Turner: The idea of going to school, getting a   job, working your way up, buying a house, that’s a part of the   American dream, and yet all those things seem harder to do. Is   the American dream still available to as many people now as it   used to be? ” ”Dimon: We have the best country on the planet.   We have schools, universities, food, water, energy, peaceful   neighbors, low corruption, you name it, deepest and widest   capital markets. That doesn’t mean we shouldn’t identify   problems. We don’t have a divine right to success. If you look at   it, what are the problems? ” ”   One is,   wages haven’t gone up. One is,     wages haven’t gone up enough to create a living wage. One is,   people losing jobs, more to automation than anything else. The   solution? It’s retraining, relocation  —   it’s income assistance.   We’re just trying to recognize those things, that we’ve left some   people behind. And we haven’t done a particularly good job of   fixing it, Democrat or Republican. My own view, this is not a   political issue. It’s not a   reaction from either side.   It’s training, schools, getting growth going again. ” ”   Detroit would be a great example. If you look at Detroit, that   mayor, it’s been a train wreck for 40 years, the population has   gone from 2 million to 700, 000. This Mayor comes in, and he   talked about streetlights, sanitation, jobs, policing, schools,   affordable housing. He’s doing it all, and it’s growing for the   first time in 30 years. Literally, one man. But that one man   couldn’t do it without business. You’ve got wonderful people in   Detroit, like Dan Gilbert, JPMorgan Chase. And business couldn’t   have done it without a political environment where they wanted to   improve things. If you had an antibusiness environment there, it   would still be down there. ” ’    ’ ”Turner: For that lost generation, there’s some   anger at the global elite. ” ”Dimon: I kind of agree with it, when you leave   people behind, and those people who are left behind, it’s not   their fault, it’s the leaders of the institutions. There’s always   going to be an elite. You can have an elite in a communist   society. It is the leaders, something went wrong, and the leaders   collectively are responsible. ” ”   There’s some more terrible numbers  —   men, age 25 to 55, the     participation rate is down 10%. That’s unbelievable.   There are 35, 000 dying of opioids every year. Seventy percent of   kids age 17 to 24 can’t get into the US military because of   health or education. Obesity, diabetes, reading and writing. Is   that the society we wanted? No. We should be working on these   things, acknowledge the flaws we have, and come up with   solutions. Not Democrat. Not Republican. Not  . ” ”   Any good job is a good job. This whole concept of a   job?   It’s not true. I’ve heard it my whole life. Jobs lead to dignity.   If you’re good at the first, then you can get the second. Jobs   lead to household formation. Jobs are a better solution for   society. The other part, the  which can help the lower   paid have more a living wage, which will lead them to do more. It   will help small business. It won’t help big business. ” ”Turner: What impact has what you’re describing   had on the economy? Can the US get back to 3% or 4% growth? ” ’Dimon: I’’ve been clear. I think the reason we’’re   at 2% and not 3% is money spent on wars, the education system   leaving people behind, technology has left some people behind.   It’’s a lot of things we did. Government shutdowns. I don’’t think   it had to be that way. I don’’t think it was embedded in   something. It was the decisions we made. We should do something   about fixing it. I’’m comfortable we’’ll fix it. People always say   to me, ”What if it doesn’’t work?” If it doesn’’t work, we redouble   our effort. We’’re not going to cry like a bunch of babies. We’’re   going to redouble our effort. ’ ”   Detroit is a great example. It is working. The population is   going up, unemployment is going down, people are moving back in.   You can go to downtown Detroit today, an area I’m familiar with   because I’ve been going to Detroit for 30 years or so. You   wouldn’t have walked around downtown Detroit. Now, it is vibrant,   music, restaurants, it’s unbelievable. It actually works at the   local level if you do it right. ” ’    ’ ”Turner: Why isn’t that happening in more places? ” ”Dimon: I wouldn’t say it isn’t happening   elsewhere. Good reporters have written about little towns where   it is happening. And then there are towns where it’s not. ” ”Turner: JPMorgan Chase’s investment in the South   Bronx is from a $75 million fund, and the bank has a $250   million fund focused on similar issues. Does corporate America   need to do more? ” ”Dimon: I’m the chairman of the Business   Roundtable, which is 200 of the largest companies in America, and   one of our initiatives is around work skills, things exactly like   this. Think of disseminating best practices among government,   among business. A lot of businesses do it. If you went to any   major company, they’ll give you a good list of the stuff they’re   doing. We just need to do more. ” ”Turner: And when you talk to those CEOs about   the need for that kind of an effort, what’s their response? ” ”Dimon: They’re totally on board. Most CEOs are   patriotic and most CEOs can see the problems in front of them,   and they want to do something about it. We don’t always agree   about the ways and means, but the objective? We’re totally   together. ” ”Turner: You’ve talked about the     approach this administration is taking, and that being a welcome   change. How does that fit in to what we’re discussing? ” ”Dimon: People get boxed up in personalities and   stuff like that. The Trump administration’s [economic] agenda is   the right agenda. Corporate taxes have been driving capital and   brains and companies overseas for a decade. It has caused huge   damage in investment and jobs and productivity. It was a mistake.   We have to fix it. Counterintuitively, that usually helps     wages, and   wages, and job formation. ” ”   The second issue is regulation. If you talk to anyone involved in   business  —   forget banks and big business  —   talk to small   businesses  —   do it yourself, don’t ask me  —   they’ll tell you it’s   crippling.   formation is the lowest it has ever   been in a recovery, and it’s really for two reasons. One is   regulations and the second is access to capital for people   starting new businesses. ” ’   Then there is infrastructure. You might be shocked to find out,   we haven’’t built a major airport for 20 years. China built 75 in   the past 10 years. It takes 10 years to get all the permits to   build a bridge today. Ten years? What happened to the good old     America? Where is ”We get it done, we work together”?   We’’ve become this bureaucratic, stifling environment. I’’m not   talking about violating environmental things  —   I’’m talking about   building a bridge, getting things going, getting people to work   together. Even some of my friends noticed there was a bridge in   Cambridge being built across the Charles River. It was a teeny   little bridge. It took six years. Don’’t tell me that’’s not   corruption. I don’’t care what you say  —   that’’s corruption. ’ ’    ’ ’Turner: How confident are you that with the   current administration there will be change? ’ ”Dimon: The first thing you do is acknowledge   where some of the problems are. They’ve got real professionals on   the ground, deeply respected, both on the   and   state side, and the economic side, and they’re just staffing up.   Let them go at it. ” ’   Remember, it won’’t be up to them. They’’ve got to work with   Congress, with Democrats and Republicans. I think a lot of these   things that are good for all of America, we should get the   Congress, whether it’’s Democrat or Republican, to say, ”Let’’s get   those things done.” Those things are good for all Americans. A   lot of these things have hurt the average American. When they   look at the banks and they say, ”Well, the bank’’s talking its own   game,” I am telling you, what we’’ve done in mortgage lending, our   inability to have proper regulations around mortgages, has hurt   average Americans.   buyers, immigrant buyers, prior   defaults,   because they can’’t get a mortgage. Will   it make a big difference to JPMorgan Chase? No, but you’’re   hurting my fellow citizens. Let’’s go at it, and let’’s fix it. ’ ”   That mortgage example  —   our economists think that one example   would have improved GDP growth by 0. 3% a year. Over five years,   that’s 1. 5%  —   1. 5% would be 2 million jobs. If that’s true, let’s   do something about it. Let’s not sit here and twiddle our thumbs   and have Democrats and Republicans yelling and screaming at each   other. We’re hurting average Americans. ” ’    ’ ’   Turner: Do you think your voice and the voices of other CEOs   carry more weight now with the present administration? ’ ”Dimon: I think the administration is talking to   everybody. They are talking to CEOs, they’re talking to unions,   I’m told the president has Democrats and Republicans over for   lunch and dinner and on Air Force One. As the head of the BRT,   the CEO,  and I recently met   with a whole bunch of unions about what we could do that would be   better for everybody. It was a great meeting. We’re going to try   to get people to work together to fix these problems. It takes   collaboration. It’s not going to work if we all hate each other. ” ”Turner: You say the Trump administration’s   economic agenda is the right one. Is there a risk that some of   the benefits from that economic agenda could be undone by other   policies like trade and immigration? ” ”Dimon: It is possible. If you’re talking about   immigration and trade, people have made some pretty strong   statements on that, but my own view is that they have laid out   some real trade issues that are accurate for both China and   Mexico, where we can improve upon the trade agreements, and I   think we’ll improve on the trade agreements. I may be wrong, but   I think that is their objective, and they’re using tough words. ” ”   I think immigration has been one of the vital things about the   growth of America. I’m the product of grandparents who all   immigrated from Greece. I hope eventually we have proper   immigration. Good people who have paid their taxes and haven’t   broken the law, get them into citizenship at the back of the   line. I think that can be worked out. If people get educated   here, and they’re foreign nationals, get them a green card. I’ve   even heard the president speak about that. There are things to do   to make immigration work for all of America. ” ’Jamie Dimon is sounding the alarm. The chairman. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’