’  ’ ”   Ethics experts criticized White House senior adviser Jared   Kushner’s relatives for using White House connections to enhance   a presentation to Chinese investors last weekend. ” ’   Members of Kushner’’s family  detailing an opportunity   to ”invest $500, 000 and immigrate to the United States” through a   controversial visa program and promoting ties to Kushner and   President Donald Trump, according to media reports. ’ ’   Richard Painter, who was President George W. Bush’’s top ethics   lawyer from 2005 to 2007 and is now a professor at the University   of Minnesota, told Business Insider the presentation was   ”obviously completely inappropriate.” ’ ’   He added that the Kushner family ”ought to be disqualified” from   the   visa program they were promoting. The visa is awarded to   foreign investors who invest at least $500, 000 in US projects   that create at least 10   jobs. ’ ”   Trump renewed the   program, which provides a path to a green   card, in the government spending bill passed last week. Trump’s   extension of the program, without any changes to it, came one day   before the Kushner family initially pitched the program to   Chinese investors. ” ’   Painter said the latest ethics controversy was ”more of the same”   involving the Trump White House, which has found itself in a   litany of ethical conflicts since Trump won the presidency in   November. ’ ’   ”Use of public office for private gain,” Painter said. ”There’’s a   story every couple of days.” ’ ’   Noah Bookbinder, the executive director of the liberal     group Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in   Washington, told Business Insider that Kushner’’s family business   ”should not be benefitting” from his position in the White House. ’ ’   ”If an investment ever led to access and influence, it would   raise the specter of serious corruption violations,” he said. ”He   should take immediate action to ensure that the businesses   refrain from using his official position to promote investments.   In fact, no Trump or Kushner companies should utilize the     program. The possibility for the appearance of improper   influence, and perhaps worse, is too great.” ’ ”   The latest controversy began when Kushner’s sister Nicole Meyer   delivered presentations to Chinese investors in Shanghai and   Beijing that promoted $500, 000 investments in the family’s New   Jersey real estate as a path to US residency.  Meyer mentioned Jared’s role in Kushner Companies    —   he was CEO but stepped down before Trump’s inauguration. ” ’   Meyer told the investors the Jersey City project she was pitching   ”means ”a lot to me and my entire family,” according to The   Times. ’ ’   The Beijing presentation featured at least one slide for   investors that prominently featured Trump’’s face, labeling him a   ”key decision maker” in the visa process. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tHere’’s a slide shown during Kushner Co. event in Beijing identifying  as ”key decision maker” on   investor visa program  ’ ’   Kushner, whose White House portfolio includes   relations,   in January divested himself of ”substantial assets” to comply   with federal ethics statutes.    that Kushner sold his stake in Kushner Companies to a family   trust earlier this year, and his lawyer said in March that the   adviser was complying with federal ethics rules. ’ ’   A spokesman for Kushner  that he would recuse himself from any administration   decisions regarding the   program. ’ ’   In a  Kushner Companies said it ”apologizes if that mention of   [Meyer’’s] brother was in any way interpreted as an attempt to   lure investors.” ’ ”   Asked about the controversy during Monday’s press briefing, White   House press secretary Sean Spicer said the presentations were not   a violation of Kushner’s ethics agreement. ” ’   ”Jared has done everything to comply with the ethics rules,”   Spicer said, adding that the presentations ”had nothing to do   with him, per se. He wasn’’t involved.” ’ ”   But the second part of Spicer’s statement didn’t hold much weight   with Painter. ” ’   ”Well, if Jared wasn’’t involved, he’’s got family members running   around using his name to solicit money,” he said. ”And this is   coming very, very close to solicitation of a bribe. I mean,   they’’re asking for money to be paid to a government official in   return for  —   they’’re promising favorable treatment on a visa. And   then they’’re putting pictures up there of Donald Trump, and   they’’re talking about how he works in the White House.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Painter said the White House should ”prevail upon” the Kushner   family to exclude themselves from the program and make sure the   State Department excludes any investments in Kushner projects   from the   program. ’ ’   The former White House chief ethics lawyer, who supported   Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton in the general   election, added that the Trump administration should ”think about   broad recusals for Jared and Ivanka from   matters.”   Ivanka Trump is Kushner’’s wife and an adviser to the president,   her father. ’ ’   Democratic Rep. Elijah Cummings, the ranking member of the House   Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, said the   presentations only added to his insistence that the White House   provide information about who in the administration is exempt   from certain ethics requirements. ’ ’   ”Congress and the American people deserve to know that our   government is not being used to line the pockets of the   president’’s family members,” Cummings told Business Insider in a   statement. ”This is exactly why we need to see who at the White   House has received waivers to exempt them from conflict of   interest requirements, including in particular the president’’s   family members who have deep personal ties to outside   businesses.” ’ ’   The Government Accountability Office, a federal watchdog agency   that provides auditing and investigative services for Congress,   said in a  that the   visa program discussed in the Kushner   Companies presentations was subject to fraud and abuse. A total   of 10, 000 such visas were issued last year, about     of which went to Chinese nationals, according to The Times. ’ ’   The Office of Government Ethics, the agency tasked with     ethical oversight, did not immediately respond   to a request for comment. ’ ’Ethics experts criticized White House senior. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’