’  ’ ’   It’s hard to understate just how important John Oliver was to the   last big   debate. ’ ’   The concept of net neutrality is a paradox. It is both crucial to   the future of the internet, yet profoundly, insufferably boring.   To immerse yourself in the topic is to become inundated with   legal jargon, marathon   sessions, and arguably the least   enchanting people in American government. ’ ’   So when Oliver took up the subject of  three years ago, the fact that he made it not   only comprehensible, but actually entertaining, is   borderline miraculous. ’ ’   What’s more, he was effective: Five months after Oliver raised   the cause on his weekly program,   Obama  the   Federal Communications Commission adopt the kind of     authority over internet service providers (ISPs) that Oliver had   called for. The agency soon followed suit, and by early 2015,   . ’ ”   This, most notably, gave the FCC the    ability to preemptively stop ISPs from blocking, slowing   down, or prioritizing certain websites and apps in exchange for   financial gain. Along the way, nearly 4 million public comments   were filed on the topic. Not all were in favor of the FCC’s new   powers, but the outcry was unprecedented. ” ’  ’ ’   It’s unfair to say Oliver caused all of that, but it’s undeniable   that  of the rules were bolstered by his     rant. His segment was the one you could point a confused   (and probably liberal) friend to and say, “Here is why   you should care about this. ” ’ ’   So with those same   rules now  the fact that  and raised awareness again is significant.   Sure enough, the  has skyrocketed  Sunday   night, when Oliver revisited the issue. ’ ’   This time, though, the flood of comments is unlikely to matter as   much. Or at least, volume alone isn’t likely to sway a Republican   FCC majority that’s convinced, sure as the sun, that the     rules are a mistake. ’ ’   To be clear, you absolutely should voice your opinion on   this. I’m not saying commenting is aimless. Wherever you   stand, if you care about the concept of   now is a   good time to not be silent. If you don’t care, it’s an even   better time to learn more about why this is significant.   (!) And beyond the FCC, telling your representatives in   Congress how you feel can always affect their opinion. ’ ’  ’ ’   What I am saying is that FCC boss Ajit Pai, the main subject of   Oliver’s scorn on Sunday, has already made it clear that another     comment barrage won’t stop him from doing what he   believes is right  —   namely, repealing Title II, trusting ISPs to   do the right thing, and acting only after a potential     violation (or, ) has occurred, instead of blocking it beforehand. ’ ’   For instance, in late April senior FCC officials held a call to   discuss Pai’s rollback proposal with the press. When asked what   would happen if another barrage of comments rolled in, one   official stressed that the agency would evaluate those comments   based on “the merits of their arguments,” not on the sheer amount   they receive. ’ ’   More to the point, here’s  (emphasis mine): ’ ’     “Well, look, that’s part of the process. I wanted to make sure     that we had a chance for the public to have its say. After     that’s over, after that period is over, the agency takes stock     of what’s in the record. Under the law, as enunciated by the     D. C. Circuit Court of Appeals here, we have to have what’s     called substantial evidence. We have to find in the record     sufficient facts to justify what course of action we are going     to take. There’s no numerical threshold that the courts     have applied. They don’t say, “Okay, 51% say yes and 49% say     no, then the decision is clear,” or any proportion greater than     that. They’ve said substantial evidence is the standard, so     that’s the legal standard we’re going to apply going     forward. ”   ’ ’  ’ ’   The thing is, everything Pai said there makes perfect logical   sense. If the internet was ruled the same way “”   came into existence, it’d probably be a mess. ’ ’   In the context of the   debate, though, that means   anyone commenters in support of the current Title II framework    “I   support the current Title II framework,” and leave it at that.   Pai and   Republicans have argued against that over and   over and over again, even as the current rules rode a wave of   support to become law in the first place. ’ ’   More specifically, Pai has repeatedly said that the more   stringent Title II rules have depressed ISPs’ willingness to   invest in their networks, and that they were never necessary to   begin with. ’ ’   For an advocate of the current rules to have a better chance at   making an impact, they’ll have to make an argument that digs a   little deeper. ’ ’   If you’re on that side of the fence, here are some things that   might have a little more bite: ’ ’  ’ ”   There are others. None of this is to say these arguments are   correct, nor that they’ll push Pai and other Title II opponents   in a more moderate direction.  ” ”   But if you steadfastly believe that the FCC needs to regulate   ISPs the way it does now, don’t be surprised if sheer numbers   aren’t enough to sway the agency’s policy this time around  —     as unfair as that may feel. If nothing else, the next few months   are likely to test how far this kind of protest can go. ” ’It’s hard to understate just how important. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’