’’ ’The last time I bought an iPad was 2012. It was a good iPad. But increasingly  —   especially when the iPhone 6 came out with a bigger screen  —   I found that my iPad started gathering dust.’ ”The bigger iPhone could do all the same things as my iPad, and as my iPad’s hardware got older  —   it still used Apple’s   charger  —   I stopped using it.” ”But Apple’s newest iPad reminded me that for iPhone users, a big tablet that does the same things can be a huge luxury. Browsing the web, playing games, and checking social media is all more pleasant with a bigger screen.” ’So a few weeks ago, I bought Apple’’s newest iPad. Apple just calls it iPad, but you might have better luck Googling ”2017 iPad” or ”iPad fifth generation. ”’ ”Ultimately, it’s not that much different than the other iPads sold over the past two years, except for one thing: It’s cheap, or at least less expensive than what previous iPads cost. I paid $329 for mine.” ”But I couldn’t be happier with my purchase. It can’t do anything new compared with other iPads, but it’s a great value, and it’s clear Apple has refined the iPad over the past seven years to be a great tablet for most people.” ”I don’t use my new iPad for anything productive. I mostly use it for content consumption, and it almost never leaves my house. And after using it for the past six weeks, I’m confident it’s the best couch computer ever.” ’’ ”Here’s what I don’t do on my iPad: anything resembling productivity. I set up my various email accounts on the device, but I turned notifications off, and I don’t really check or send emails on the iPad. I can handle quick notes from my iPhone, and if I need to do any word processing or work, I’ll boot up my Mac.” ’’ ”This iPad’s design is not going to surprise you. It’s a rectangle, centered on a beautiful, dense,   screen.” ”I hadn’t used a 9.  iPad on a regular basis since 2012, and I immediately noticed two things about this new iPad. First, it’s light enough to use for long stretches of time  —   something I didn’t find with my older, heavier iPad.” ’Second, there’’s no physical mute switch. You’’ll have to turn the sound off on the touchscreen or hold the ”volume down” rocker until it goes silent.’ ”Finally, all of Apple’s new iPads, including the 2017 model, come with a fingerprint sensor. While the sensor is less useful on the iPad than on the iPhone, it can still be handy, especially if you plan to share your tablet with your family  —   just give everyone a fingerprint password.” ”Apple says this iPad can manage 10 hours of battery life, and I believe it. I haven’t timed how long it takes this iPad to run out of battery, but it doesn’t seem to lose charge from day to day when I’m not using it, and it can last an entire afternoon gaming. I haven’t ever had an issue where the iPad ran out of battery and I needed to charge it.” ”For my use, the battery life is just good enough  —   it’s unclear whether an improvement would make the iPad significantly better.” ’’ ”I got the $329 model of the new iPad in space gray because I prefer the black border around the tablet’s screen. It comes in gold and silver as well, but those come with a white bezel on the front.” ”The   model has 32 GB of space, which is more than enough for me because I’m not uploading videos or music onto my tablet. So far, it’s plenty of storage space for me, and unless you know you use a lot of space, it probably will be for you, too.” ’After a month of heavy use, I still have over 15 GB available.’ ”I also declined to get the   model. For $459, the iPad comes with a modem so you can get   internet on the iPad without connecting to a   network. Of course, the cell service requires a monthly fee. Since I use my iPad at home, connected to   I didn’t need it  —   so I saved the money.” ”For nearly everybody, Apple’s newest iPad is the best value if you know you want an iPad.” ”You might want to upgrade to the 9.  iPad Pro if you like the size and shape but want to be able to use Apple’s stylus, the Pencil. The 9.  Pro also has a slightly better screen, speakers, and camera, but for my usage, it’s not a huge upgrade, and since it’s $599 from the Apple Store, it’s not worth the $270 extra for me. The more expensive Pro also works with Apple’s keyboard case, but there are plenty of   options for the less expensive model.” ”The bigger Pro is the most expensive and heaviest iPad model. I used a review unit provided by Apple for a few months before I bought my iPad. My advice is that if you use it for media consumption, as I do, it’s not the best option. Not only is it more expensive, the ergonomics as a couch computer don’t work that well  —   it’s heavy and feels oversized. Only get this one if you’re sure you want to use an iPad as a laptop replacement.” ”The iPad Mini starts at $400, and its screen is the same resolution as the 9.  iPads. It’s more expensive than the latest iPad, and it has a slower chip. I wouldn’t recommend it unless you’re sure you like the smaller tablet size. It doesn’t support the Apple Pencil.” ”If you don’t fit into one of these categories, I’d recommend Apple’s latest iPad. Apple’s pricing the tablet aggressively, and it’s a better value for most people than anything else in Apple’s tablet lineup.” ’’ ’The last time I bought an iPad was 2012. It was. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’