’  ’ ’   Betsy DeVos was met with raucous boos as she reached the lectern   to deliver her commencement remarks at   University   on Wednesday. ’ ’   For nearly the entire time the secretary of education spoke, she   was booed, shouted at, and met with calls of ”Go home!” from   students and audience members. ’ ”   About two minutes into DeVos’ speech, the university’s president,   Edison Jackson, stopped her to address the students disrupting   it. ” ’   Jackson said degrees would be mailed to students if their   behavior continued. ’ ’   ”Choose which way you want to go,” he said. ’ ’   DeVos restarted her speech, but the threat went unheeded as boos   picked up again. DeVos powered on, sticking to prepared remarks.   She addressed some of the opposition to her speaking at the   historically black university in Daytona Beach, Florida, asking   for those critical of her to hear her out and voicing her support   for historically black colleges and universities, or HBCUs. ’ ’   ”We support you, and we will continue to support you,” she said. ’ ’   The weeks leading up to her speech were  from students,     organizations, and Florida education groups, who say she does not   understand the history and significance of HBCUs. ’ ’  ’ ’   On Tuesday, petitions were delivered to university leaders urging   them to disinvite DeVos from the commencement ceremony. ’ ’   ”Secretary DeVos has no understanding of the importance,   contributions, and significance of HBCUs,” said  signed by more than 8, 000 people. ’ ’   Both DeVos and the Trump administration have endeavored to engage   HBCUs in conversations about higher education, meeting with   leaders of HBCUs and voicing support for their contributions. ’ ”   But their efforts have been marked by gaffes and uncertainty   about the administration’s plans to help better serve the   institutions. ” ’   After meeting with leaders of HBCUs in February, DeVos ignited   controversy  that called HBCUs ”real pioneers when it   comes to school choice.” ’ ’   She implied that HBCUs and school vouchers, of which DeVos is a   fierce supporter, similarly afforded students better options. ’ ’   HBCUs ”are living proof that when more options are provided to   students, they are afforded greater access and greater quality,”   she said. ”Their success has shown that more options help   students flourish.” ’ ”   She failed to acknowledge that many HBCUs were created because   black students could not attend white segregated schools. In   other words, they weren’t providing better options  —   they were   the only options for black students. ” ’   DeVos later posted a series of tweets clarifying the racist   history that necessitated the emergence of HBCUs. ’ ’   In  President Donald Trump seemed to   indicate that key funding for HBCUs might be unconstitutional and   therefore scrapped. Experts  that certain funding for HBCUs   was at risk. Trump later pledged his ”” for the schools. ’ ’ ’ ’Graduates of   University turn their backs to Betsy DeVos as she delivers a commencement address. via  ’ ’Betsy DeVos was met with raucous boos as she. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’