’  ’ ”   Billionaire businessman Mark Cuban on Wednesday explained what he   believed to be the bigger issue was with President Donald Trump’s   firing of FBI Director James Comey. ” ’   Cuban, the owner of the NBA’’s Dallas Mavericks and star of ABC’’s   ”Shark Tank,” told Business Insider that it’’s not about ”whether   or not Comey should be fired or why he was fired.” ’ ’   ”The issue is trust,” Cuban said. ’ ’   ”If you trust our president and his decision making ability, then   this move is probably OK,” he said. ”If you don’’t trust his   decision making process, or are uncertain about it like I am,   then you question why he did it and how he will make his choice   of replacement.” ’ ”   The White House attributed Comey’s Tuesday ouster to his handling   of the investigation into Hillary Clinton’s use of a private   email server. But  whether Trump’s campaign   colluded with Russian officials to help influence the US   election, which led Democrats and other Trump critics to suggest   that he was interfering into an investigation that involved him. ” ’’ ’   In his letter to Comey, Trump said Comey had informed him   ”” that he was ”not under investigation.” Comey has   not confirmed that claim publicly. ’ ”   Top White House officials such as deputy press secretary Sarah   Huckabee Sanders said that Comey’s firing was a result of Trump   losing faith in the director. But Trump expressed support for   Comey late in the campaign after he sent his October letter   revisiting the Clinton email investigation, and White House press   secretary Sean Spicer said just last week that Comey had Trump’s   support. ” ’   ”Our president has yet to demonstrate that he is able to convey   in any depth why he makes the choices he does,” Cuban said. ”His   responses are usually driven by sound bites rather than   explanations or facts. And the few times he has done sit down   interviews . .. many if not most have reduced clarity.” ’ ’   ”In a nutshell, if you want logic and decision supporting   evidence from the president, you have been severely   disappointed,” he continued. ”If you want a combative president   that denigrates and fights with any media outlet not supportive   of his actions, you are thrilled and believe he is fighting your   fight against the same forces that you feel are disrupting the   country you love.” ’ ’ telling Business Insider   earlier this year that ”we will see” regarding his future plans.   Cuban, an independent, backed Democratic presidential nominee   Hillary Clinton during the   campaign after   initially expressing warmer feelings toward a Trump presidential   bid during the primary. He became one of Clinton’’s top surrogates   and routinely roiled Trump both before the November election   and after he was inaugurated in January. ’ ’   Trump took aim at Cuban both before a presidential debate with   Clinton and in February, when he tweeted that the billionaire   business mogul was not ”smart enough” to be president. ’ ’Billionaire businessman Mark Cuban on Wednesday. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’