’  ’ ’   White House deputy press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders told   reporters on Wednesday that former FBI Director James Comey   committed ”atrocities” while he led the bureau that she said   spurred President Donald Trump  on   Tuesday. ’ ’   Sanders said that although Trump as a candidate had expressed   support for Comey’’s decisions about the FBI’’s investigation into   Hillary Clinton’’s use of a private email server, the letter he   received Tuesday from Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein and   Attorney General Jeff Sessions outlining ”the basic atrocities”   Comey committed ”in circumventing the chain of command of the   Department of Justice” persuaded him to fire Comey.   ”Any person of legal mind and authority knows what a big deal   that is,” Sanders said. ”Particularly for someone like the deputy   attorney general, who has been part of the Justice Department for   30 years  —   when he saw that, he had to take action, and that was   the final catalyst” for Comey’’s dismissal. ’ ’ ’ ”   McClatchy reported Wednesday that Trump met with Sessions and   Rosenstein on Monday to discuss firing Comey, who days earlier   had  to expand the probe into   Russia’s interference in the 2016 election and whether any Trump   campaign associates were involved. ” ’   Sanders denied that the Monday meeting was arranged to discuss   Comey, however, telling reporters that ”the topic came up” during   a meeting of department officials at the White House. At that   point, Sanders said, Sessions and Rosenstein asked to meet with   Trump to further discuss the issue. ’ ’   Trump asked Rosenstein to write a memo outlining his concerns   about the FBI director, Sanders said. But The New York Times’’   Michael Schmidt  that Sessions had been trying ”since at   least last week” to find an excuse to let Comey go. Sanders said   Trump had been contemplating dismissing Comey since the day he   was elected. ’ ’   In his letter to Trump, dated Tuesday, Rosenstein said, ”I cannot   defend the director’’s handling of the conclusion of the   investigation of Secretary Clinton’’s emails, and I do not   understand his refusal to accept the nearly universal judgment   that he was mistaken. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”The director was wrong to usurp the attorney general’’s authority   on July 5, 2016, and announce his conclusion that the case should   be closed without prosecution,” he continued. ”It is not the   function of the director to make such an announcement. At most,   the director should have said the FBI had completed its   investigation and presented its findings to federal prosecutors.” ’ ”   Rosenstein also criticized Comey’s decision to tell Congress 11   days before the election that the FBI would revisit the Clinton   email probe  —   a move that Trump and Sessions applauded at the   time. ” ’   ”Concerning his letter to the Congress on October 28, 2016, the   director cast his decision as a choice between whether he would   ’’speak’’ about the FBI’’s decision to investigate the newly   discovered email messages or ’’conceal’’ it,” Rosenstein wrote. ’ ’   ”’’Conceal’’ is a loaded term that misstates the issue. When   federal agents and prosecutors quietly open a criminal   investigation, we are not concealing anything; we are simply   following the longstanding policy that we refrain from   publicizing nonpublic information. In that context, silence is   not concealment.” ’ ”   Trump fired Comey one day after Sally Yates, the former acting   attorney general, testified before Congress that she had  about former National Security Adviser   Michael Flynn’s contacts with Russia’s ambassador during the   transition. ” ’   Days earlier,  during an open Senate Judiciary Committee   hearing that the FBI was still ”conducting an investigation to   understand whether there was any coordination between the Russian   efforts and anybody associated with the Trump campaign.” ’ ’   ”The   collusion story is a total hoax,”  on Monday night. ”When will this taxpayer funded   charade end?” ’ ’White House deputy press secretary Sarah. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’