’  ’ ’   Hugh Hewitt wanted to drive home a point in an interview with   Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price on Friday morning. ’ ”   The conservative radio host brought up an incident in which      during Price’s appearance at West Virginia’s state capitol. ” ’   The reporter, Dan Heyman, was taken into custody on Tuesday after   he allegedly followed Price, senior White House counselor   Kellyanne Conway, and others down a hallway at the capitol,   asking questions about healthcare policy. ’ ’   Heyman was charged with willful disruption of state government   processes. ’ ’   Hewitt took up the incident with Price on Friday. ’ ’’ ’   ”I am a journalist, so I have to start with what happened to a   member of my tribe, Dan Heyman, in West Virginia this week,”   Hewitt said. ”Do you think the charges should be dropped against   Mr. Heyman?” ’ ’   Price deferred the question to local authorities. ’ ’   ”Look, this fellow, we were walking into the state capitol, and a   fellow was yelling at us, which is not necessarily unusual from   the press,” he said. ”But I turned the corner to head on into the   round table, and something happened afterwards.” ’ ’   Price did not elaborate. Hewitt pressed Price again. ’ ’   ”I know we can be jerks, and I know we can yell, etc. but we   shouldn’t be arrested even when we are totally off the charts   screaming at people,” Hewitt said, suggesting to Price that his   staff should ”nudge” West Virginian authorities to drop the case. ’ ’   Price seemed to suggest the reporter was out of line for asking   questions outside of a scheduled press conference he and Conway   were going to. ”Our detail was making certain that we were able   to get to the round table and to the press conference. This   wasn’t in the press conference, you know, Hugh,” Price said.   ”This was, this gentleman was not in the press conference.” ’ ’   Hewitt implored Price one last time: ”Arresting a journalist is   not something we do in the United States. That’s what I would   hope you would consider that.” ’ ’Hugh Hewitt wanted to drive home a point in an. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’