’  ’ ’   Former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper said James   Comey was ”uneasy” about having dinner with President Donald   Trump in January. ’ ”   Clapper  on Friday that Comey, the FBI director whom Trump   abruptly  had mentioned he was invited to the White   House for dinner shortly after Trump’s inauguration. ” ’   ”He was uneasy with that because of even compromising  —   even the   optics, the appearance of independence not only of him, but of   the FBI,” Clapper said. ’ ’   Clapper said Comey accepted Trump’’s invitation out of   ”professional courtesy.” ’ ’   ”You’’re in a difficult position to refuse to go,” Clapper said of   Comey. ”But I do know he was uneasy with it.” ’ ’   During the dinner, Comey at least twice  to Trump and said he’’d pledge   his ”honesty,” The New York Times reported on Thursday. ’ ”   Trump’s abrupt dismissal of Comey has  particularly among Democrats, that the   FBI may have been closing in on compromising material while   investigating Russian meddling in the 2016 election. ” ”   In a letter announcing Comey’s firing, Trump said Comey assured   him  that he wasn’t under   investigation. Trump reiterated that in an interview with NBC   News’ Lester Holt on Thursday. ” ”   The FBI and the congressional intelligence committees  Russia’s election interference and the Trump   campaign’s ties to Kremlin officials. Clapper said on Friday that   he didn’t know whether the Trump campaign colluded with the   Russian government. ” ’  ’ ”   Trump’s first national security adviser, Michael Flynn, was asked   to resign in February after revelations that he had misled Vice   President Mike Pence about  Russia’s ambassador   to the US. ” ’   Clapper said he didn’’t think Flynn had the ”skill set” to be   national security adviser. ’ ’   In a  on Friday morning, Trump said the Russia   investigation was a ”witch hunt” and that there was ”no   collusion” with the Russian government. ’ ’   ”James Comey better hope that there are no ’’tapes’’ of our   conversations before he starts leaking to the press!” Trump   tweeted. ’ ’   Clapper said that ”morale in the FBI was very high” under Comey’’s   leadership. ’ ’   ”I witnessed, personally, the very high esteem and respect people   in the FBI have and still have for Jim Comey,” he said. ’ ”   Andrew McCabe, the acting FBI director,  in his testimony before the Senate   Intelligence Committee on Thursday,  of Comey’s firing. ” ’ ’ ’Former Director of National Intelligence James. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’