’  ’ ’   WILLINGBORO, NJ  —   The anger seemed to mount as attendees piled   into the room here where Republican Rep. Tom MacArthur was about   to hold a town hall. ’ ’   Seats were filled within minutes  —   200 to 250 people packed into   a small room, anxious to air their grievances against the   Republican plan to overhaul the Affordable Care Act, MacArthur   himself, and President Donald Trump. ’ ’   ”Is rape considered a preexisting condition under your   amendment?” asked    Daisy Confoy, who attended the   event with two friends. ”Yes or no? Yes or no? One word, please.” ’ ’   ”Folks, you get to ask the questions, and I get to give the   answers,” MacArthur said, as the audience booed him. ’ ’   MacArthur, the leader of the moderate Tuesday Group in the House   of Representatives, was the recipient of a frosty welcome back in   his home state on Wednesday evening. ’ ’   In recent weeks, he has gained prominence by wading into the   healthcare debate in a big way:  to the American Health Care Act that was key to its   passage in the House. ’ ”   MacArthur returned here, to the New Jersey 3rd Congressional   District he has represented since 2015, to host a town hall. The   event itself started at 6:30, but protesters and demonstrators   clustered outside the venue at least two hours beforehand, with   many calling for constituents to vote MacArthur out of his   congressional seat based on his leadership on what’s become known   as the MacArthur amendment. ” ’   The American Health Care Act, which recently passed the House and   is currently being debated in the Senate, has a  according to a Morning   poll released   Wednesday. The Congressional Budget Office has  would result in millions of Americans losing   their health insurance, as well as potentially skyrocketing costs   for older and sicker Americans. ’ ’   Prior to the town hall, demonstrators gathered outside and   shouted slogans. ’ ’   ”  that’’s a lie, you don’’t care if people die,” they   chanted. ”Hey hey, ho ho, Tom MacArthur’’s got to go!” ’ ’  ’ ’   As Confoy, who is a senior in high school, continued to press   him, MacArthur said he would not ”reduce” the experience of   sexual violence by calling it a preexisting condition, but he   never answered her question outright. ’ ”   Though the question of whether sexual assault and rape could be   considered preexisting conditions has led to an uproar since the   AHCA’s passage in the House, that notion has been . ” ”   Nevertheless, Confoy and her friends were furious over   MacArthur’s amendment, which allows states to apply for waivers   to the preexisting conditions mandate. They said they would vote   in the 2018 midterms. ” ’   ”You answer to us. You are our representative. We will vote you   out,” Confoy said, as other attendees stood up and cheered. ’ ”   Ashwin Suseendran, who attended the town hall with Confoy and   their friend Joseph Zetkulic, told Business Insider that they’d   decided to come to the event as soon as they found out about his   amendment to the AHCA. Suseendran said none of them had   participated in the protests before the town hall. ” ’   ”We wanted to wait in line and make sure we got in so MacArthur   would hear directly from us,” he said. ”We’’re all voting next   year.” ’ ”   MacArthur was also grilled on Congress’ handling of   investigations into the Trump campaign’s possible collusion with   Russia during the 2016 election. ” ’   ”We seem to have a pattern that most people who are investigating   Russia seem to be getting fired,” said Willingboro resident   Kimberly Stuart, referring to Trump’’s dismissal of     figures like FBI Director James Comey, whom he . ”Do you support an independent   group investigating Russia’’s ties into the 2016 election?” ’ ’   ”So, Director Comey got fired less than a day ago . .. and my view   right now is the FBI has still got some work to do in their   investigation, and both the Senate and the House Intelligence   Committee are still investigating,” MacArthur said. ”This isn’’t   the first FBI director that was fired;” MacArthur said as attendees   shouted him down. ’ ’   Multiple constituents asked, ”Yes or no?” ’ ’   MacArthur replied: ”The answer is no, not yet,” and the audience   again booed. ’ ’  ’ ”   One constituent pointed to the apparent disarray on the House   Intelligence Committee’s investigation into Russian meddling in   the election, such as Rep. Devin Nunes, the committee’s chairman,   . ” ’   ”This week, we listened to a subcommittee hearing in which most   of the Republicans could not bring themselves to ask even one   question about Russia, and now we have Comey fired,” the   constituent said. ”If that isn’’t enough to convince you that the   legislature cannot do this on its own, what specifically do you   need to see before you’’re convinced?” ’ ’   ”You’’re right, the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee   did recuse himself, but that investigation is now continuing in a   bipartisan manner,” MacArthur said. ’ ’   The audience groaned. ’ ’   He continued, addressing the constituent: ”The Senate chair and   the ranking member have both publicly declared that they’’re   working closely together on their investigation  —   publicly. So,   you asked what I want to see. I want to see the result of their   investigation.” ’ ’   ”That’’ll take four years,” some in the audience shouted out. ’ ’   ”I don’’t think it’’ll take four years. I don’’t think so,”   MacArthur said. ’ ’   ”How is [the investigation] ever going to get finished if you   keep firing the people that are doing the investigation?” Stuart   asked, before she was drowned out by raucous applause. ’ ’   ”Well, you asked and I answered,” MacArthur said. ’ ’  ’ ”   Constituents were also furious at MacArthur and his congressional   colleagues for what they characterized as Congress’ refusal to   stand up to Trump. ” ’   Lavonne Bebler Johnson, who was the mayor of Willingboro and sat   on the town council for seven years, implored MacArthur to hold   Trump accountable for his actions. ’ ’   Trump ”seems to be learning day by day that he can do whatever he   pleases, and no one will hold him to account,” she said. ”He did   whatever he wanted during the election and got elected. He does   whatever he wants in office, and nobody holds him to account, and   he keeps doing it. It’’s a sign of tyranny.” ’ ’   Paul Ziegler, a constituent from Edgewater Park, New Jersey,   shared her fear. ’ ’   ”I am concerned that I have a president that praises Vladimir   Putin and other dictators around the world,” he said. ”I am   concerned that I have a president that attacks the free press and   calls them the enemy of the people. I am concerned because I have   a president who attacks the independence of the judiciary when   they have a ruling that doesn’’t go his way.” ’ ’   ”Donald Trump is the greatest threat to democracy in our   lifetime,” Ziegler continued, becoming increasingly agitated as   the audience gave him a standing ovation. ”My question to you:   How long are you and your fellow Republicans going to defend this   American nightmare? You? Mitch McConnell? How long? Open your   eyes.” ’ ’   ”Let me  —   let me respond,” MacArthur said. ”Folks, I didn’’t come   here to defend our president tonight, I came to answer your   questions . .. and to tell you what I think and what I’’m doing.   That’’s what I came here for.” ’ ’   ”I hear your anger, and I hear all of the angst in this room,”   MacArthur added. ”But  —   but when I drive across the pine barrens,   there’’ll be people that totally disagree with you,” he said,   referring to Ocean County, New Jersey, which he also represents   and which strongly supported Trump in the 2016 election. As   MacArthur continued speaking, he was drowned out by jeers and   shouts of disapproval from the audience. ’ ’   ”What is it going to take, congressman? What is it going to take   for you and your fellow Republicans to open your eyes and realize   what’’s going on?” Ziegler asked. ”We need an independent   prosecutor. We need a bipartisan select committee to investigate   this. When are you going to open your eyes? We all see it . .. You   don’’t see it? When are you going to decide to be an American and   not a politician?” ’ ’   ”I hear you, but there are loads of other people who don’’t see it   that way. That’’s the reality,” MacArthur said. ”I swore an oath   to the Constitution. When and if I see  —  ” ’ ’   ”And we’’re in a constitutional crisis now!” Ziegler interjected. ’ ’   ”No, I don’’t think we are. I don’’t think we are,” MacArthur said.   ”When I see what I believe is a violation of that, I will act.   But right now, right now, we have three independent groups   investigating this, and I think we owe them a chance to give us   an answer before we jump to  —  ” ’ ’   Some people in the audience said the investigation would go on   for over a year. ’ ’   ”Well, I don’’t think it’’ll take that long. Honestly, I don’’t,”   MacArthur said, before moving on. ’ ’  ’ ”   But more than anything, MacArthur faced hostility from attendees   about the GOP’s healthcare bill. ” ’   ”It’’s ridiculous because half these people in Congress haven’’t   even read their own bill,” a man, who identified himself as   Cliff, told Business Insider as he waited in line before the town   hall began. ”They don’’t even know what’’s in it. How do you vote   for something that affects people’’s lives  —   these are our lives  —     when you haven’’t even read the whole thing?” ’ ’   One man said he has a heart condition and told MacArthur he was   worried about what would happen if he lost his job, had a gap in   coverage, and couldn’’t afford insurance in the individual market.   ”This is very real. This is my life,” he said. ”Without   healthcare coverage, I’’m dead. I’’m dead. I can’’t afford it.” ’ ’   ”This is your health care bill,” the man continued, addressing   MacArthur. ”It was dead in the water and could have stayed dead   in the water. It was done. . .. Because of that MacArthur   amendment, you brought it back from the dead, with that   amendment. It’’s yours. You own it.” ’ ’   Another man said his wife was a breast cancer survivor. ”She will   always have a preexisting condition. I don’’t want to choose what   state I live in, in order to get healthcare for her,” the man   said, as the audience signaled its approval. ’ ’   The forceful response from attendees surprised Johnson, the   former Willingboro mayor. ’ ’   ”This was the most   crowd on the issues I’’ve ever   seen,” Johnson told Business Insider. ”And I think it’’s because   Trump has forced people to pay attention. People have woken up   and taken a crash course in what’’s going on in this country.” ’ ”   She added that she’d never felt or witnessed the level of fear   she does now. ” ’   When asked about her reaction to MacArthur’’s appearance, she told   Business Insider, ”Everything he says sounds hollow and empty.” ’ ’   ”He’’s giving us a good line on some of this stuff, and the     pool he’’s talking about sounds a little different than   a standard insurance company   pool,” Johnson added. ”But   when the American Medical Association, the National Nurses   Association, the AARP  —   when they call this a horrible law, and   when you see that it’’s going to take $880 billion out of the   system and redistribute it to the rich, how can you take anything   MacArthur says seriously?” ’ ’   And people are recognizing that, Johnson said. ’ ’   ”The folks in here tonight knew what they were talking about,”   she said. ”That’’s the Trump effect.” ’ ’WILLINGBORO, NJ  —   The anger seemed to mount. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’