’The inhabitants of Silicon Valley are not exactly known for haute couture.’ ”It’s a land where jeans,   and hoodies reign supreme, and where sneakers are the footwear of choice.” ”But don’t let the pedestrian fashion item fool you. These sneakers can be as rare and as   as the fine  or the designer handbags clutched by elite art dealers.” ”For many of the Valley’s technorati, the right pair of kicks is a trademark accessory carefully selected to convey a mix of power and nonchalance, creativity and exclusivity.” ’With help from the team at the  Business Insider compiled some of the most fashionable, expensive, and downright wild sneakers worn by tech founders and CEOs. The Flight Club team helped confirm the brands and styles and provided expert commentary and analysis.’ ”We did our best to find photos of female tech executives wearing sneakers, but our search didn’t yield many results. Women like Sheryl Sandberg and Marissa Mayer wore low heels, flats, or loafers, which says something about how much freedom women have to dress down in the corporate world.” ”If you dream of becoming the next Mark Zuckerberg, lacing up a pair of these sneakers probably won’t get you very far. But at least you’ll look the part.” ’Check it out:’ ’Since Nike’’s Flyknit franchise was introduced in 2012, Flight Club says it has seen resale values in ”the hundreds, and some well over a thousand. ”’ ”The Wolf Grey sneakers favored by Zuckerberg, Facebook’s CEO, aren’t currently sold in stores, but you can .” ’Price: ’ ”When the Microsoft CEO took the helm in 2014, it  he was stylish. So it’s no surprise he opts for a more   take on sneakers, with a pair from the French   brand Lanvin. Even  have inquired about Nadella’s kicks.” ’Price: ’ ”Nadella isn’t the only one who likes Lanvin. Google CEO Sundar Pichai wears them too, but he prefers an   version.” ’Price: ’ ’Perhaps Pichai is giving fashion tips to Alphabet CEO Larry Page. Page also favors Lanvin sneakers, though his are a bit harder to find  —   the style is currently .’ ’Price: ’ ”Dorsey, Twitter’s CEO, is known for having a  than some of his Silicon Valley peers, so his sneakers by the   designer Rick Owens certainly fit his style. Owens’ shoe line is something of a cult favorite in the sneaker world, but he has also  on a line.” ’Price:  down from $969’ ’Wojcicki, the CEO of YouTube, opted for a bright pair of New Balance running shoes to complement her athleisure look at Sun Valley in 2015.’ ’Price:  down from $110’ ’The president of Y Combinator is known for his casual style and penchant for wearing sneakers. In fact, he was once  for wearing his Puma Blaze of Glory shoes.’ ”Here’s what Flight Club says about the vibrant sneakers:” ’Price: These shoes can resell for $257 to $325, according to Flight Club.’ ”Cook, Apple’s CEO, is the  so it makes sense he’d choose Nike kicks.” ’”For Nike, the Roshe run has performed really well over the years,” the team at Flight Club says. ”It was first spotted overseas in Asia, and then it hit the States in 2012. We have witnessed the Roshe run sell by the hundreds in the secondary market ranging from $109 to $300, depending on popularity. The demand for this model and return upon investment are undeniable. ”’ ’Flight Club says the most popular colors for Roshe Runs are Triple Red, Calypso, GPX Tiger Camo Pack, Yeezy, Rainbow, and Santa Monica Pier.’ ’Price:  down from $130’ ’Cook was spotted in Nike Roshe Ones at the grand opening of an Apple Store in Palo Alto, California.’ ’Price: ’ ’Novelist MacKenzie Bezos favors   sneakers by Ash, while Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos wears more affordable Jack Purcells.’ ’The Jack Purcell was  as a badminton shoe  —   Purcell himself was a Canadian badminton player  —   but  in the 1970s.’ ’”Converse has stepped up the model by doing cool collabs with men’’s contemporary brands like rock designer John Varvatos, Neighborhood, WTAPS, and Comme des Garcons. Also, let’’s not forget the annual Missoni collab,” Flight Club says. ”For those interested in finding rare, dope spins on this model, we’’ve seen the best executions of these models come out of Japan. ”’ ’Price:  (MacKenzie)  (Jeff)’ ’Ek, the CEO of Spotify, has ”one of the most iconic shoes” to come out of Nike, according to Flight Club. Nike  in 1982 and sold an  during the shoe’’s peak in 2005.’ ’”Over the years, the model has become iconic and part of the very fabric that makes Nike so great,” Flight Club says. ”The Air Force franchise has left a historic impression not only on sports culture, but it has been a     staple. Throughout the ’’90s and early 2000s, Air Forces have been a staple in streetwear fashion  —   especially the beloved   . ”’ ’While Ek sports the basic version of the shoe, Flight Club says it has seen   and rare versions of Air Force 1s ”flip for the thousands. ”’ ’Price: ’ ’Ek is wearing Adidas Superstar Shoes.’ ’Price: ’ ”Spiegel, CEO of Snap, is a longtime fan of the   sneaker brand Common Projects. In fact, he  he has worn the brand since high school. But they don’t come cheap  —   an average pair of Common Projects costs $400, according to Flight Club.” ’”The   pair of Achilles is the most popular colorway for the brand,” Flight Club says. ”Some may ask why would you pay so much for such a simple shoe. The answer: craftsmanship. These shoes are   and usually made out of Italian leather. Also, they look great with your everyday look. ”’ ’Price: ’ ”Systrom, Instagram’s CEO, is a yet another tech CEO who favors Lanvin shoes.” ’’ ’Price: ’ ’Source: ’ ’Source:  ’ ”Men’s Louboutin   can cost between  and .” ”The Box CEO is known for always wearing sneakers  —   he doesn’t own a pair of dress shoes, .” ’”Sneakers help me walk faster,” Levie told The Times. ”Plus, it reminds me that we’’re fighting for the end user  —   the consumer  —   because they wear sneakers, too! ”’ ”Levie favors Asics shoes, like these Onitsuka Tiger sneakers. Onitsuka Tiger is an Asics label that focuses on a more vintage style, according to Flight Club. While Levie’s blue and orange pair is sold out, other colors are still available.” ’Price:  down from $85’ ’Chesky, CEO of Airbnb, is another stylish exec, and he often chooses unique  —   and expensive  —   footwear. The Ace sneaker has been a popular model for Gucci, and the brand has recently seen a resurgence in the fashion world, according to Flight Club.’ ’”The last and current season has been trending on the blogs and among celebrities,” Flight Club says.’ ’Price: ’ ’It turns out all three Airbnb founders have a strong sneaker game. At Airbnb Open in 2016, Chesky, left, wore a SeaVees Maslon Desert Boot Wintertide; Gebbia, center, wore a Reebok Pump Omni Lite; and Blecharczyk, right, wore a Nike Free Trainer 5. 0 V6.’ ’Prices, from left:  down from $108; ;  down from $100’ ’Rad, the founder of Tinder, has   taste when it comes to shoes. His fringed   are  but you can still  or buy the gray version on .’ ’Price:  to ’ ”It’s hard to be sure, but Business Insider and Flight Club think Musk, the Tesla CEO, is wearing the Nike Lunar Flyknit HTM NRG, a shoe created by the renowned  of Hiroshi Fujiwara, Tinker Hatfield, and Mark Parker.” ”These shoes are hard to find  —   not to mention expensive. They’re sold out on Flight Club’s site, but you can find a pair on eBay.” ’Price:  to ’ ”While he doesn’t exactly have stylish taste in shoes, Brin  —   a Google cofounder and the president of its parent company, Alphabet  —   certainly has unusual taste. Brin has been  for public appearances, but his most serious fashion faux pas may be his preference for Vibram FiveFingers, the wacky, socklike shoes that have space for each of your toes.” ’Price: ’ ”Kalanick, the Uber CEO, favors this pair of red Nike running shoes, but we haven’t been able to identify what style they are. If you figure it out, let us know at ahartmans@businessinsider. com.” ’The inhabitants of Silicon Valley are not. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’