’  ’ ”   There’s a blank year in    Caroline Walsh’s     memory. ” ”   She’s pieced parts together from stories her friends have told   her and a collection of photos on Facebook. But she cannot   remember the day it all began  —   when her father found her in the   middle of a seizure, her body writhing on the floor. She   also can’t remember waking up with her hands tied to a hospital   bed, begging her sister to help her escape, or the next day when   she proclaimed she was the Zac Brown Band. ” ”   Instead, Walsh’s first recollection of that time is of a recovery   room filled with family and flowers. By then, her doctors   had diagnosed her with a mysterious disease called autoimmune   encephalitis, or AE for short. While there’s lot we still don’t   know about the condition, experts believe it’s part of a larger   class of illnesses in which the body turns on itself. ” ”   In Walsh’s case, the disease attacked her brain, setting off a   chain reaction of symptoms that mimicked those of other mental   illnesses like depression and schizophrenia. If treated properly   and early enough, people with AE can make a     recovery. But if they go undiagnosed or land in a psychiatric   ward, they can die. ” ’   A stroll down a real street called Memory Lane in London leads   you to the London Institute of Psychiatry, where J. A. N. ”Nick”   Corsellis sliced into the brains of three corpses and found the   first evidence of AE. ’ ’   Deep in the dense part of the brain called the limbic system, the   normally lithe network of   tissue had become puffy   and inflamed. It was as if something had attacked it from within. ’ ’   Most of the people these brains once belonged to had been   diagnosed with cancer, then seemed to make a full recovery.   But their personalities . A partner or friend was usually the first to   notice an odd shift in their behavior  —   usually a progressive   increase in forgetfulness, though others experienced a sudden   bout of mania or depression. A   old bus driver found   himself waking up most days not knowing where he was. ’ ”   Corsellis saw inflammation in parts of the brain linked with   memory and mood, but he couldn’t explain what had caused the   swelling that triggered the symptoms. ” ’   ”The first question to arise . .. is whether the assertion of a   connection between carcinoma [cancer] and ’’limbic encephalitis’’   is now justified, even if it cannot be explained,” he wrote in a   1968 paper in the journal Brain. It was first time the condition   was mentioned in a scientific journal. ’ ”   Walsh’s symptoms became noticeable one day at work when she   started repeating herself. She joked with a   that she   was coming down with   Alzheimer’s. ” ’   ”I was just getting very confused all the time,” Walsh says. ’ ”   The next week, more mysterious problems cropped up  —   Walsh had a   knack for remembering names, but one day when she met up with   some new friends, she introduced herself half a dozen times and   struggled to commit anyone’s name to memory. ” ’   ”They’’d say it and then a couple minutes later I’’d have no clue   what their name was or what we were even talking about,” she   says. ’ ’   At the office the next day, things got worse. ”My   personality was just off. I thought it was work. I pulled my boss   aside into a conference room and I started to cry, which was just   not me,” she says. When she wasn’’t feeling stressed and anxious,   she felt depressed. ’ ’   ”Something was just brewing, I could feel it,” she says. ’ ”   Our immune system is our body’s defense against the outside   world. ” ’   Most of the action is coordinated by white blood cells, which   direct the lines of attack like football coaches, churning out   antibodies that target the opponent for destruction. ’ ’  ’ ’   But sometimes the process can go awry. In generating an immune   response against a virus or other disease, the body can wind   up up attacking itself  —   a larger class of illnesses   known as autoimmune diseases. ’ ’   It’’s as if ”some wires get crossed,” says  a neuroradiologist at Henry Ford hospital in Detroit   who’’s part of the small community researching autoimmune   encephalitis. ’ ’   Sometimes, this abnormal response can be caused by a virus   like the flu or a bacterial infection. Other times, certain types   of cancer appear to be the source. ’ ’   ”In picking targets that match the cancer, the body may also pick   targets that match places in your body that don’’t have cancer,”   says Kelley. ’ ’   Three months later, Walsh relocated to her childhood home outside   of Boston, and saw two doctors who both incorrectly diagnosed her   with the flu. ’ ”   Then one morning around 4 a. m. as her dad, a Boston police   officer, got ready for work, he heard a loud crash. He found his   daughter on the ground, her limbs thrashing. He screamed her   name, but she didn’t respond. ” ’   The most common cause of the type of seizure that Walsh had that   day  —   known as a grand mal seizure (literally ”great sickness” in   French)  —   is epilepsy. Other causes can include extremely low   blood sugar, high fever, and stroke. ’ ’   At the hospital, Walsh’’s doctors tested her extensively, doing   multiple lumbar punctures or ”spinal taps,” a painful, dangerous   procedure that involves collecting and analyzing the protective   fluid surrounding her brain and spinal cord. In most cases, this   is where doctors will first spot autoimmune encephalitis, Kelley   says. ’ ”   But sometimes, as in Walsh’s case, the characteristic markers of   inflammation are too subtle to draw a definite conclusion. ” ’  ’ ”   When Caroline’s sister Alana arrived at the hospital, Caroline   was lying motionless on her hospital bed under the harsh   lighting. Her hands had been encased in heavily padded mitts that   looked like boxing gloves, and were fastened to the railings on   her bed to keep her from pulling out the IV tubes keeping her   hydrated. She asked Alana to come closer so she could whisper   something into her ear. ” ’   ”You have to fight ’’em, you have to get me out of here,” said   Caroline, motioning her head towards the nurses as she eyed them   suspiciously. ’ ”   When Alana asked her sister what she was talking about, Caroline   explained that she’d been abducted while she was asleep and was   now being held hostage at the hospital. ” ’   A few hours later, after drifting into the sleepy, dazed state   she was in for much of her hospital stay, she woke with a jolt   and proclaimed she was the country singer the Zac Brown Band. She   started belting out her favorite song of his, a catchy tune about   taking a break from reality called ”Knee Deep.” ’ ’”Gonna put the world away for a minute,” she sang,   getting louder with every verse. ”Pretend I don’’t live   in it.” ’ ”   When her family couldn’t stop Caroline’s crooning, Alana got up   and closed the doors to her room in an attempt to keep her from   waking up everyone on the ward. Caroline continued. ” ’ ”Mind on a permanent vacation, t he ocean is my   only medication, w ishin’’ my condition ain’’t ever gonna   go away.” ’ ”   Over the next week, Walsh proceeded to seize more than a hundred   times. Alana recalls that nearly every time she sat down to talk   with her, Caroline would seize half a dozen times. They weren’t   massive seizures like the one that had landed her in the   hospital, but small, barely perceptible ones. ” ’   ”You’’d know because her eyes would drift away and she’’d stare in   one spot, she was having little ones almost every minute,” says   Alana. ”She was very shaky and confused; her heart rate was   extremely high, and the doctors just seemed so confused by   everything every time we talked to them, they were like she can’’t   be going into these seizures all the time, it’’s just too much.” ’ ’   Eventually, the doctors decided to put her in a     coma. ’ ”   In children, infections like strep throat appear to be a trigger   of AE.  a pediatrician in New York, says she’s seen   hundreds of cases of a related condition, called PANS (pediatric     neuropsychiatric syndrome) in her patients. Her   first case, in 1998, was a   old girl from Brooklyn who   flew into a panic about keeping the clothes she wore on the   Jewish holiday of Shabbat separate from her regular clothes. ” ’   ”She was driving her mother crazy,” Schulman says. At first, she   believed the girl had  but medication made the   child’’s symptoms worse, and she returned to Schulman’’s office   with more intense OCD symptoms and a nasty case of strep throat.   Strangely, after Schulman treated the strep with antibiotics, the   OCD symptoms vanished. ’ ’   ”I said you know what, that’’s odd,” Schulman says. ’ ’  ’ ’   Around the same time, an NIH pediatrician named Susan Swedo   published an  describing 50 cases of   a phenomenon she called ”pediatric autoimmune neuropsychiatric   disorders associated with streptococcal infections.” Schulman   realized that the sudden psychiatric symptoms she had observed in   her young patients  —   which ranged from OCD to rage and paranoia  —     were likely connected to their infections. ’ ’   ”I see infection as the match that lights the autoimmune   reaction. The inflammation is the fire; the symptoms you see is   the smoke coming out of the fire,” Schulman says. ’ ’   Autoimmune conditions that affect the brain only represent a   fraction of all autoimmune diseases. Scientists have identified   as many as  which range from type 1 diabetes, which develops when   the body attacks its   cells, to multiple   sclerosis, psoriasis, and rheumatoid arthritis. More are being   recognized each year. ’ ’   Kelley and others at Henry Ford are currently researching   autoimmune diseases that affect the brain. By working with   scientists who specialize in the brain and the immune system,   Kelley hopes to find out what these conditions have in common so   the team can eventually figure out what causes them. ’ ’   ”A lot of these conditions are variants on the same theme,” he   says.  ’ ’   In Walsh’’s case, ”these are people who tend to not have a lot of   other medical problems and then all of a sudden they feel like   they’’re going crazy, they’’re losing themselves,” Kelley says. ”It   tends to be very clear that something’’s not right, but precisely   what’’s going on can be difficult to piece together.” ’ ”   When Walsh woke up in her hospital room, she wasn’t sure why she   was there. ” ’   ”I was like why are all these people in my room? Why is it   decorated with all of these flowers? ,” she recalls. ’ ”   A day or so before, a specialist had diagnosed Walsh with   autoimmune encephalitis and started her on a regimen of powerful   steroids, now considered one of the best treatments for the   disease. The drugs began to reduce the inflammation in her brain.   In Walsh’s case, the affected area was her hippocampus, the   region responsible for making and storing memories. ” ’   ”I just remember I kept asking, ’’What? ’’ you know, ’’Wait, why am I   here? ’’ and they would tell me, but I kept forgetting,” she says. ’ ’  ’ ’   In patients whose autoimmune encephalitis seems to be triggered   by cancer (as opposed to Walsh’s, which may have been set off by   the flu) the treatment focuses on treating or removing the   cancer first. “When you remove the cancer, you remove the   stimulus,” Kelley says. ’ ’   The treatment for autoimmune encephalitis can vary based on   the trigger, but timing is always key. If doctors treat whatever   is triggering the condition, many people with the disease can go   on to lead fairly normal, full lives. ’ ’   ”It’’s a race against time in a way,” Kelley says. ’ ”   As Walsh began to regain her ability to remember, she realized   she’d have to   a lot of basic things. ” ’   ”I remember going to get up to use the bathroom, and one of the   nurses went to bring me a wheelchair and I was like, ‘Oh no I   don’’t need that,’’” says Walsh. ”So then I just thought about   standing and suddenly I just had no idea, I couldn’’t function to   walk.” ’ ’   She regained those skills over the next 10 days at Spaulding   Rehabilitation Center, the same place the survivors of the Boston   Marathon bombing were brought after the attack. There, Walsh     how to put one foot in front of the other and how to   hold a spoon. ’ ’   Walsh now works   as a nanny and volunteers with   Spaulding and the Boston Boys and Girls Club. Instead of going   back to sales, she plans to work with children in some capacity.   She recently attended a Spaulding fundraising event with her   sister, Alana, where she bumped into the physical therapist who   helped her walk in a straight line for the first time. ’ ’   ”We were in our dresses and we were both dancing together,” Walsh   says, ”and Alana was like, ’’You know she taught you to walk   again? ’’” ’ ”There’s a blank year in    Caroline. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’