”Johnny Depp’s former business managers have  that the actor is living an extravagant $2    lifestyle, complete with 14 houses, 70 guitars, and an enormous appetite for wine.” ’The news comes after Depp  in December 2016 against his business managers at The Management Group claiming ”gross mismanagement” of his affairs, and TMG countersued.’ ’He said the company failed to properly pay his taxes on his behalf, made unauthorized loans, and overpaid for ”security and other services,” costing him ”tens of millions of dollars” and leading to financial trouble, which  he only became aware of in March of last year.’ ’The lawsuit lifts the lid, in extraordinary detail, on Depp’’s alleged ”extravagant and extreme” spending habits. We took a look through to discover how the ”Pirates of the Caribbean” star splurges his earnings. Figures are quoted in TMG’’s lawsuit, ’ ’In May,  published a piece that detailed other alleged spending habits. It also revealed that Depp was reportedly causing problems on the set of the upcoming ”Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Men Tell No Tales” by drinking heavily and showing up late, which left hundreds of extras waiting for hours.’ ”Here’s how Johnny Depp spends $2 million a month according to his   and reports:” ’This includes a   chateau in the south of France, valued at $13. 5 million, a chain of islands in the Bahamas, a number of houses in Hollywood, and penthouse lofts in downtown Los Angeles. He also has a horse farm in Kentucky. Each house has a full staff.’ ’ ’ ’A  is just one of his many motors.’ ’ ’ ’JK Rowling  off him in 2016.’ ’He has since sold two of the five. The penthosues were listed at a combined price of $12. 78 million. You can get a closer look at the penthouses and their wild interior design . ’ ’Source: ’ ’After he connected with   Amber Heard, on one occasion ”he walked into a [  jewelry] store, sat for a couple of hours,” an insider said. ”They showed him a lot of stuff, gave him champagne, and he walked out with a $400, 000 diamond cuff. It was a classic sort of moment because it wasn’’t worth $400, 000. ”’ ’Source: ’ ”This Marilyn Monroe dress, which went on sale at Christie’s in 1999, is an example of the kind of memorabilia Depp might own.” ’ ’ ’Basquiat’’s ” ” is just one of the pieces he has owned. It was  with a  over $4. 7 million.’ ’ ’ ’This includes living expenses for his sisters and late mother. He bought his mother a   home in Hollywood, and spent $35, 000 a month on a residence for her when she was ill.’ ’Depp also funded a startup music label run by a childhood friend. It cost him over $4 million with no revenue before he ultimately cut funding.’ ’Source: ’ ”Johnny Depp’s former business managers have. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’