’  ’ ”   There’s going to be even more chaos from an ongoing massive   global cyberattack on Monday morning. ” ”   Europol’s executive director    that there were at least 200, 000 victims across 150 countries so   far, and that number will go up on Monday morning when people go   back to work. ” ”   Indonesia’s government has also warned the attack  when people log into their computers. ” ’   And a security researcher warned there might be another attack   imminently. ’ ’   Wainwright said: ”We’’re in the face of an escalating threat, the   numbers are going up, I’’m worried about how numbers will continue   to grow when people go to work and turn their machines on on   Monday morning.” ’ ’’ ’   Europol is the EU’’s law enforcement and intelligence agency. It’’s   working with the FBI to track down the criminals responsible for   the malware, but Wainwright said this was ”very difficult.” ’ ’   ”We have never seen anything like this,” he said. ”We’’ve seen the   rise of ransomware becoming the principal cyber threat, but this   is something we’’ve never seen before  —   the global reach is   unprecedented.” ’ ’   The    on Friday  there   was ”another one coming . .. quite likely on Monday.” The      researcher, who is known as MalwareTech, registered a   domain name to track the virus, unintentionally halting it in the   process. ’ ’   The attack has  and affected organsations   around the world including French car manufacturers, Russian   banks, and a Spanish telecoms operator,  ’ ”   At least 48 NHS organisations were affected by the hack,   including St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, and the East and North   Hertfordshire Trust. Staff resorted to working with pen and paper   while their computer systems were down, and hospitals had to   cancel appointments. ” ’   Barts Health, the biggest NHS trust, said it was still   experiencing issues as of Sunday. ’ ”   It’s likely more NHS organisations will be hit on Monday, because   the attack began late on Friday. ” ’   “Given the timing of the   some parts of the NHS will   not have clocked there is an issue,” a spokeswoman for NHS   Digital .   “If that is going to happen it is more likely to be primary care   trusts. ” ’ ’   The attack took the form of ransomware that is nicknamed   ”WannaCry”. Ransomware is malicious software that encrypts data   on your computer, then asks for payment in return for decryption.   In this case, messages seen by affected NHS staff showed that the   attackers were asking for $300 in Bitcoin in exchange for   decryption. ’ ’   A BBC analysis found people  ’ ”   No one has died because of the NHS attack, and there’s no   evidence patient data was leaked, . ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   But the attack has sparked a massive debate about why the NHS, as   a critical piece of the UK’s infrastructure, was running      software at all. ” ’   WannaCry is spread by a worm that targets a particular Windows   vulnerability. That flaw has been patched in more      versions of Windows  —   but .   Microsoft no longer supports Windows XP, and the extra security   the NHS paid for as a   had expired. ’ ’   The UK government  but failed to heed the advice. ’ ’   Europol’’s Wainwright said organisations should learn from the   banking sector, which had learnt the ”painful” way to keep   systems updated. ’ ’   ”They have learnt through painful experience of being the number   one target for cybercrime of the value of having a proper   strategy in place,” he said, ”and I think the health sector and   others should follow the example to make sure they sit up and   take notice of what is absolutely a huge strategic concern.” ’ ”The EU’s law enforcement agency Europol warned. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’