’  ’ ’   President Donald Trump shared highly classified intelligence with   the Russian foreign minister and ambassador in an Oval Office   meeting last week that was so under wraps American allies were   not aware of the information,  Monday. ’ ”   Current and former anonymous US officials told the Post that   Trump’s disclosures to Russian Foreign Minister Sergey   Lavrov and Ambassador Sergey Kislyak jeopardized a key   source of intelligence on the Islamic State terror group, as the   source had not given the US permission to share the intelligence   with Russia. ” ”   Officials told the Post that Trump’s disclosure risked the   cooperation of an ally that has access inside of ISIS. ” ’   Trump ”revealed more information to the Russian ambassador than   we have shared with our own allies,” one official said. ’ ’   The incident happened last Wednesday, just . ’ ’’ ”   The FBI is investigating any potential collusion between the   Trump campaign and Russian officials to swing the 2016 election   as a part of a counterintelligence investigation into Russian   interference in last November’s presidential election. ” ’   Trump welcomed Kislyak and Lavrov to the Oval Office without any   American press present to document the meeting. Kislyak is at the   center of a number of   controversies, including   from his conversations with ousted national security adviser   Michael Flynn and Attorney General Jeff Sessions.  ’ ’   Russian photographers were allowed in, and subsequently posted   photos of Trump looking jubilant with Lavrov and Kislyak, a move   that upset some within the White House. ’ ’   During the meeting with the two Russian diplomats, Trump went off   script and began to tell them about an ISIS plot related to the   recently implemented laptop ban on some international   flights, officials told the Post. ’ ”   The disclosures were likely not illegal, The Post wrote, because   of the president’s broad authorities on declassification. ” ’   ”The president and the foreign minister reviewed common threats   from terrorist organizations to include threats to aviation,”   H. R. McMaster, Trump’’s national security adviser, who was in   the meeting, told the Post. ”At no time were any intelligence   sources or methods discussed and no military operations were   disclosed that were not already known publicly.” ’ ’   In a  Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said a ”broad   range of subjects were discussed, among which were common efforts   and threats regarding  .” ’ ’   ”During that exchange, the nature of specific threats were   discussed, but they did not discuss sources, methods, or military   operations,” Tillerson continued. ’ ’   And Deputy National Security Adviser Dina Powell said the ”story   is false.” ’ ’   ”The president only discussed the common threats that both   countries faced,” she said. ’ ’   Other officials wondered to the Post whether Trump   understood the difference between classified and declassified   intelligence. ’ ’   ”It is all kind of shocking,” a former senior US official close   to current administration officials told The Post. ”Trump seems   to be very reckless, and doesn’t grasp the gravity of the things   he’s dealing with, especially when it comes to intelligence and   national security. And it’s all clouded because of this problem   he has with Russia.” ’ ’   Republican Sen. Bob Corker of Tennessee, chair of the Senate   Foreign Relations Committee,  that   the Trump White House ”has got to do something soon to bring   itself under control and in order. It’’s got to happen.” ’ ’   ”Obviously they’’re in a downward spiral right now and they’’ve got   to figure out a way to come to grips with all that’’s happening,”   he added. ’ ’   And Republican Sen. John McCain of Arizona  that ”if” the   Post story ”is true, I would say it’’s disturbing.” ’ ’   In that meeting with Lavrov and Kislyak, Trump said to the   Russians, ”I get great intel. I have people brief me on great   intel every day,” an official with knowledge of the exchange   told the Post. ’ ’   Trump discussed aspects of the ISIS threat, including the city   where the ploy was detected. He did not reveal the intelligence   gathering method, however. ’ ’   ”If that partner learned we’d given this to Russia without their   knowledge or asking first that is a blow to that relationship,”   a US official told the Post.  ’ ”   the Post’s report shortly after on Monday, citing two anonymous   US officials who were briefed on the intelligence disclosures   last week. ” ’   ”It’’s far worse than what has already been reported,” one of the   officials told BuzzFeed. ’ ’President Donald Trump shared highly classified. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’