’  ’ ’   Sharing meals is a meaningful tool for trust building in nearly   all cultures. But in some cultures, sharing drinks  —   particularly   alcoholic drinks  —   is equally important. ’ ’   I once conducted a training program for a German couple moving to   Japan, assisted by Hiroki, a wise and entertaining Japanese   culture specialist. The German asked Hiroki how to get his   Japanese colleagues to tell him what was really going on: ”They   are so formal and quiet. I worry if I am not able to build the   necessary trust, I won’’t get the information I need from them.” ’ ’   Hiroki thought quietly for a moment and then responded with only   a small trace of humor in his eyes: ”Best strategy is to drink   with them.” ’ ’   ”To drink?” the German client questioned. ’ ’   ”Yes, drink until you fall down.” ’ ’’ ’   When Hiroki said this, I thought back to my   ride in   the  ’ ’   If you look at Japan on  you will see that it is a     culture, though not as far to the right as   China or India. During the day, the Japanese generally take a     approach  —   but the relationship building that happens   in the evening can be critical to business success. ’ ”   In Japanese culture, where   and avoiding open   conflict are overriding goals, drinking provides an opportunity   to let down your hair and express your real thoughts. Drinking is   a great platform for sharing your true inner feelings (what are   called honne rather than tatemae feelings) as well as for   recognizing where bad feelings or conflict might be brewing and   to strive to address them before they turn to problems. Under no   circumstances should the discussions of the night before be   mentioned the next day. Drinking alcohol is therefore an   important Japanese bonding ritual not only with clients, but also   within one’s own team. ” ’   Many Japanese use drinking to forge connections, as captured by   the bilingual expression nomunication, stemming from the   Japanese verb nomu (”to drink”). Japanese salespeople   frequently woo their clients over drinks, knowing that although   explicit deal making is never done during this type of   socializing, a deal is rarely won   out it. Of course,   drinking to build trust is not just a Japanese custom. Across   East Asia, whether you are working in China, Thailand, or Korea,   doing a substantial amount of drinking with customers and   collaborators is a common step in the   process. ’ ’   Many people from   cultures don’’t get it. ”Why would I   risk making a fool of myself in front of the very people I need   to impress?” they wonder. But that is exactly the point. When you   share a round of drinks with a business partner, you   show  ’ ”   Alcohol is not the only way to build a business relationship. If   you don’t drink, you can certainly find other ways to partake in   the fun; in Japan, a round of karaoke or a trip to the spa can do   wonders. And in Arab cultures, where alcohol is avoided, you can   forget beer and relax instead over a cup of tea. ” ’ This excerpt adapted with permission from ”” (2014) by INSEAD professor  from   PublicAffairs. ’ ’Sharing meals is a meaningful tool for trust. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’