’  ’ ”   Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein  to oversee the FBI’s investigation into   Russia’s election interference and whether the Trump campaign   colluded with the Kremlin. ” ’   The probe is now under the purview of Robert Mueller, a former   FBI director, who has been praised by his former colleagues,     experts, and members of Congress on both sides   of the aisle. ’ ’   After learning of the appointment, Trump said in a statement, ”I   look forward to this matter concluding quickly. ’ ’   ”As I have stated many times, a thorough investigation will   confirm what we already know  —   there was no collusion between my   campaign and any foreign entity,” he said. ’ ’   Many of his advisers  since the White House could avoid questions   about the investigation and refer them to Mueller. ’ ’   However, a person in the room with Trump and his aides when they   heard of Mueller’’s appointment said ”everyone knew this wasn’’t   good news,” . ’ ’   Max Boot, a   analyst, tweeted a similar assessment   on Wednesday. He said the White House was ”desperately spinning   the special counsel as good news, but a retired FBI agent tells   me Mueller will ’’crush’’ Trump.” ’ ’   Scott Olson, a former FBI agent who recently retired after three   decades at the bureau, told Business Insider on Wednesday that   Mueller was ”a good choice for this investigation.” ’ ’   ”Not only is he a seasoned prosecutor, he has a good level of   experience in   investigations and issues,” Olson   said. ”I think we can expect him to focus on developing a solid   understanding of the facts  —   what actually happened  —   and then   follow with a thoughtful recommendation regarding who, if anyone,   should be held accountable.” ’ ”   Trump fired FBI Director James Comey on May 9 amid the bureau’s   investigation into Trump’s ties to Russia, prompting Democrats   and   experts to call for a special counsel.   Those calls became louder when The New York Times reported this   week that Trump had asked Comey to drop the bureau’s probe into   Michael Flynn, the former national security adviser. ” ’   ”People across the political spectrum should be able to breathe a   sigh of relief at the appointment of Robert Mueller,” said Andy   Wright, a professor of constitutional and criminal law at   Savannah Law School. ’ ’   ”He begins this process with the bipartisan gravitas that can   reassure to have confidence in the criminal and   counterintelligence investigation,” Wright added. ”Make no   mistake, though: This is bad news for President Trump.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Robert Deitz, a former top counsel for the National Security   Agency and the CIA who worked with Mueller when he headed the   FBI, said he had ”enormous respect” for Mueller. He echoed   Wright’’s assessment that Mueller’’s appointment meant that ”the   president may have gone from the frying pan into the fire.” ’ ’   Wright said that Mueller, unlike Rosenstein, enjoyed political   independence and that Trump would pay a ”much higher price” if he   were to fire Mueller than he did for firing Comey. Most   Republicans openly supported Comey’’s dismissal but reacted with   alarm when they heard that Trump asked Comey in February to drop   the Flynn investigation. ’ ’   ”Trump won’’t have the ability to influence or impede this   investigation without severe consequences,” Wright said. ”The   special counsel doesn’’t have additional power, but he has   independence. Unlike Rosenstein, Mueller doesn’’t have to run the   broader Department of Justice. Therefore, he gets to avoid the   awkwardness of investigating, say, Attorney General Jeff   Sessions’’ conduct while sitting through five other meetings a day   with him.” ’ ”   The FBI  Sessions’ interactions with Russia’s   ambassador to the US, Sergey Kislyak, last year  —   which he failed   to disclose during his Senate confirmation hearings  —   as part of   its investigation into Russia’s election interference. ” ’   ”In addition,” Wright said, ”Mueller will enjoy a base of support   in Congress that will be wary of any efforts to clip his wings.” ’ ”   Trump’s advisers have recommended he hire a private lawyer to   deal with the Russia investigations, according to .   It would not be unprecedented: President Bill Clinton hired a   personal counsel, David Kendall, in the early 1990s amid the   FBI’s Whitewater probe. ” ’   Wright said Trump couldn’’t depend on White House lawyers, like   counsel Don McGahn, to defend him because ”his use of them in a   defense could transform them into instruments of obstruction of   justice.” ’ ’   ”He needs to hire private criminal counsel,” Wright said. ”White   House lawyers represent the Office of the President and not   Donald J. Trump.” ’ ’   In any case, Wright said, McGahn is becoming ”a fact witness in   his own right” regarding Trump’’s relationship with Flynn. ’ ’   Former acting Attorney General Sally Yates  earlier this month that she warned McGahn about   Flynn’’s conversations with Kislyak in January so the Trump   administration ”could take action” amid concerns that Flynn   was  by the Russians. ’ ”   Any private counsel Trump hires would have their work cut out for   them, given the president’s penchant for    comments  —     like his . ” ’   Beth Wilkinson, a former Justice Department prosecutor,  that   Trump’’s comments last year about the judge overseeing his Trump   University fraud case  —   he called the   judge a   ”hater” and noted his Mexican heritage  —   ”shows the difficulty of   having a client who won’’t listen.” ’ ”   When it comes to examining whether Trump sought to obstruct the   FBI’s investigation into Russia’s election interference and   whether the Trump campaign played a role, experts say  and past statements about the probe will likely   come back to haunt him. (Trump’s comments about barring Muslims   from the US were  were debating the intent behind his two   controversial executive orders on immigration.) ” ’   The president ”needs a sophisticated lawyer who has dealt with   cases at the intersection of criminal law and politics,” a   Washington lawyer involved in several White House investigations   told Reuters on Wednesday. ”He is flunking all the rules of   crisis management.” ’ ’   The White House did not respond to a request for comment. ’ ’Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’