’  ’ ”   It’s been a tumultuous two weeks for the White House. ” ’   In brief, the last 11 days have included: ’ ’   The flood of bombshell reports against the president has prompted   some lawmakers and pundits to ask a version of the   same question: Can Trump be impeached for indiscretions that   critics believe  and may amount to an obstruction of justice? ’ ”   Since Trump took office,  from both parties have either   discussed or actively promoted the president’s impeachment.   Democratic Rep. Al Green even called for Trump’s impeachment on   the House floor on Wednesday. ” ”   A Public Policy Polling survey released May 18 found that    than oppose it (albeit with a significant   partisan divide). After news broke of Comey’s memo, which   alleges that Trump asked him to drop the Flynn   investigation, a  and legal analysts began considering the   possibility of impeachment. The White House  as lawyers began preparing for   what they called a distant possibility. ” ”   Experts say that it’s unlikely Trump would be impeached over   these events  —   at least, not yet. But they say he’s edging   closer to the line. ” ’   Comey’’s memo, if it does exist, ”would be very damaging” to the   president, Keith E. Whittington, an expert on presidential   impeachment and politics professor at Princeton University, told   Business Insider.  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”I’’ve spent a lot of time studying [presidential impeachment].   We’’re in presidential impeachment territory,” Whittington    on Monday,   before news of Comey’’s memo broke. ’ ’   The memo fills in a number of details around     ties and what the president’’s motives were in firing the former   FBI director, Whittington said. If Congress pursues those   details, depending on what they find, this latest   development may ”open the door” to exploring the groundwork for   presidential impeachment, he added. ’ ”   And the decision over whether or not to impeach Trump over   his dissemination of classified info or Comey’s memo may not even   come down to a question of legality.  ” ’   ”It may be that he’’s acting completely within his legal authority   and yet still has abused his office in ways that might rise to   the level of impeachable offenses,” Whittington said. ”But   that would have to be something that would need to be explored   through congressional hearings. ’ ’   Bob Deitz, a former top lawyer for the NSA and CIA, told Business   Insider as much. ’ ’   ”I can imagine a lot of people saying, ’’Look, I don’’t care   whether what Trump did is felonious or not. But the comment   itself has brought disgrace upon the White House, and therefore,   we think he should be impeached for that,’’” Deitz said.  ’ ’   And because the Supreme Court has never explicitly defined what   an impeachable offense is, ”since Watergate, many people have   said that an impeachable offense is whatever the House and the   Senate think it is,” Deitz said. ”It’’s a cynical take, but it may   very well be true.” ’ ’   An effective assessment of whether Trump has committed an   impeachable offense also requires a   Congress,   and that has been a source of concern among many critics who feel   that officials and lawmakers may place party over country.  ’ ’   Preet Bharara, the former US attorney for the Southern District   of New York who was  vocalized those concerns in a  titled, ”Are there still public servants who will say   no to the president?” ’ ’   In light of Comey’’s abrupt dismissal while the FBI was   investigating Trump’’s ties to Russia, Bharara argued that ”we   need a truly bipartisan investigation in Congress. That means no   partisan nonsense  —   just a commitment to finding the facts,   whatever they may be, proving (or disproving) Russian   interference in our election and anything related.” ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Congress is a check and a balance,” he added, ”and never more   important than when a bullying chief executive used to his own   way seems not to remember the   status of the other two   branches.”  ’ ”   And that criticism doesn’t apply just to Republicans who have   appeared hesitant to criticize the president. The number of   Democrats who have called for Trump’s impeachment since he took   office doesn’t help the situation either, Whittington said.  ” ’   Democrats’’ concerns, though often outlined by lawmakers as   critical to the foundation of democracy, ”have not been so much   about the exceptional circumstances of Trump as much as just   partisan disagreements,” Whittington said. And in cases where   there were potential constitutional concerns  —   like in the case   of Trump’’s travel ban  —   he has been checked by the judicial   branch a number of times. ’ ’   Lawmakers should be capable of stepping back and recognizing that   ”sometimes you just disagree and mistakes get made, but they   don’’t necessarily rise to the level of threatening the   constitutional system,” Whittington said.  ’ ’   Instead of discussing the possibility of impeachment, Whittington   said, it seems more appropriate to examine whether Trump breached   his oath of office, which many experts say he did.  ’ ’   ”I think that would be the concern,” Whittington said. ”I think   that’’s the right thing to be looking at and to be thinking   about,” he said, adding that the focus at this point should   be urging Congress to hold the president to account. ’ ”   Lawmakers from both sides of the aisle applauded the move to   appoint Mueller as special counsel to oversee the Justice   Department’s investigation into the Trump campaign’s ties to   Russia, and whether his associates colluded with the Kremlin’s   tampering of the 2016 election. ” ’  ’ ’   Rosenstein made the appointment after multiple revelations in the   last 11 days threatened to derail the investigation. ’ ’   Though Rosenstein is    at the DOJ, he has the   authority to make the   appointment because   Attorney General Jeff Sessions recused himself from all     investigative matters after his     meetings with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak that he failed to   disclose during confirmation hearings for his role as attorney   general came to light. ’ ”   Experts say Mueller’s appointment as special prosecutor in the   Russia investigation will also ensure that it proceeds smoothly   after a rocky start. ” ’   ”I have enormous respect for Bob. We worked together when I was   at the NSA,” Deitz, who worked with Mueller when he headed the   FBI, told Business Insider. ’ ’   ”The Russia investigation will continue apace with no loss of   momentum,” Deitz said. And if more evidence of Trump’’s or his   associates’’ ties to Russia emerges, he said, Mueller’’s   appointment means ”the president may have gone from the frying   pan into the fire.” ’ ’   The steady drip of new details about Trump and his associates’’   ties to Russia necessitated the need for a special prosecutor,   Glenn Carle, a former CIA   officer, told   Business Insider. Carle called Mueller ”solid,” ”impartial,” and   ”professional,” and also added that Mueller’’s appointment may   temporarily stall the Russia investigation. ’ ’   ”Things will slow down because Mueller will be deliberate and   thorough,” Carle said. While he said the investigation’’s likely   slowed pace may reduce the    tumult that has rocked the   White House over the past few days, Carle added that it was   likely Trump would try to ”divert attention by having surrogates   attack Mueller’’s independence and integrity.” ’ ’   But given Mueller’’s reputation as an apolitical, independent   prosecutor and the precarious position the White House is   currently in, Carle said, ”it will be difficult for him to do so,   and the costs would be high.” ’ ”   Since the president himself has repeatedly declared that he was   within his rights to take a number of actions he’s taken over the   last week, including Comey’s ouster and repeatedly insisting that   he has nothing to do with Russia, others are calling on him to   back those claims up.  ” ’   ”If what Donald Trump says is true, that he has never done   anything wrong either in the campaign or as president, he should   welcome an impeachment investigation as a chance to clear the   air,” . Lichtman has   predicted every US election winner since 1984.  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”He should release all documents, all presidential tapes, if they   exist. I would call upon him to do so. If he doesn’t do that   that’s an indication he has something to hide,” Lichtman   added.  ’ ’   Lichtman also said that Republicans have been ”cagey” so far. ’ ’   ”But it’’s like a dam,” he said. ”There’’s a little bit of a   trickle at first, and then eventually the dam bursts and there is   a tide.” ’ ’   The case is ”becoming too compelling for even Republicans to   resist an impeachment inquiry,” which they may be tempted to use   ”to get to the bottom of the many controversies swirling around   this administration,” he later added.  ’ ’   ”Otherwise it’’s going to be drip, drip, drip, which is not good  —     even for Republicans,” Lichtman said. ’ ’   Deitz agreed and compared the current situation to the   buildup to Watergate. ”Republicans all lined up behind Nixon   before the really damaging stuff broke,” he said. ”When it came   out that he may have abused his power or broken the law,   Republicans fled from him like rats from a ship.”  ’ ’   ”We got to wait and see whether that Republican dam is going to   burst,” Lichtman said.  ’ ”It’s been a tumultuous two weeks for the White. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’