’  ’ ”   American consumers’ stress levels are at an   high,   according to surveys by GE Appliances. ” ’   ”The average consumer is more stressed out than ever,” Rick   Hasselbeck, the CEO of GE Appliances, told Business Insider.   ”Their well being is not where it should be physically,   emotionally, socially, and financially. . .. People are   struggling.” ’ ’   He said consumers are increasingly   and they are   facing rising health care and technology costs, among other   pressures, and ”they need things that make their lives   simpler.” ’ ’   GE is hoping to address that need, in part, with its line of   appliances. ’ ’   ”We think we can play a meaningful role in helping improve their   well being,” Hasselbeck said. ’ ’   To do that, the company is launching a massive marketing   campaign with the new tagline ”good things, for life.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Starting Sunday, GE will advertise the tagline and appliances on   TV ads nationally during primetime spots, including the Billboard   Music Awards, ”The Bachelorette” season premiere, ”The Voice”   season finale, the ”Dancing With the Stars” season finale, and   other popular shows. ’ ”   The ads feature GE’s ” ’   Hasselbeck says connected homes are the future of the appliance   industry. ’ ’   ”The connected space is something that [millennials] just   demand. ..  so if you’re not in that space then you are going   to be missing out,” he said.  ’ ’ ’ ’   The company has been watching the growth of meal prep services   like Blue Apron, and working on ways to make cooking easier   for consumers through devices that are programmed to apply the   right amount of heat and cooking technique for various     recipes.  ’ ”   The company is also focusing on providing customers better   service through connected devices. The company will get an   alert if the hot water on a customer’s dishwasher isn’t   functioning correctly, for example, so they can spot problems   before customers do. ” ’   GE is investing heavily in this new marketing campaign against a   backdrop of turmoil in the retail industry, as some of the   biggest historical sellers of appliances like Sears and hhGregg   shut down hundreds of stores, and newer players, like  and JCPenney, move into the space.  ’ ’ ’ ’   Hasselbeck said    stores are vital to appliance   sales. Only 10% to 15% of appliance sales are made online today,   and 98% of those online purchases were made after visiting a   store to see the appliance in person, he said. ’ ’   ”The industry is going through change and it’s going to continue   to change at a faster rate,” he said. ”The retailers that are   going to win are the ones that are closest to the real boss  —     which is the consumer  —   and can understand them best.” ’ ”American consumers’ stress levels are at an. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’