’    ’ ’  ’ ’   Sears has survived two world wars and the Great Depression. But   after a decade under the control of a former Goldman Sachs   executive turned hedge fund manager, the    retailer is   imploding. ’ ’   Sales have been cut in half since 2009, and the company is   burning through cash, closing hundreds of stores, and selling off   assets in an attempt to stanch the bleeding. Executives are   fleeing and store workers face a grim future. ’ ’   A debt repayment from a $500 million loan facility is looming,   and some  and cut back on   orders amid fears that the company could soon go bankrupt. ’ ”   The man in charge of Sears, Edward S. Lampert, has blamed the   company’s decline on everything from  to the rise of   and even    —   at times  —   . More recently, he’s taken to attacking  saying reports speculating on a Sears bankruptcy   are thwarting his efforts to turn the business around. ” ’   ”Every time people use the word bankruptcy, somebody who reads   that doesn’’t get past that word,” he told the  in a recent interview. ”It makes it very   unfair for us, and it’’s a very uneven playing field for   us.”    While other retailers are also struggling, analysts take the   demise of Sears, which owns Kmart, . ’ ”   But what sets Sears apart from other suffering retailers is   something that’s not as obvious as the rise online shopping and   falling foot traffic in shopping malls. It’s the steps that   Lampert took when he first acquired the company: putting   shareholders like himself in front of everyone else, he drained   the company of vital resources.     When Sears was flush with cash, this took the form of billions of   dollars of share repurchases, even as the stores suffered years   of underinvestment. Repurchases, or  are common among   companies, but also   derided in some corners as a waste of a company’s resources as   they only serve to create the appearance of improving earnings. ” ’  ’ ’   In the early days, Lampert was unapologetic about these.   According to an executive at the company then, Lampert was   genuine in his belief that Sears could be run differently than   other retailers and that the shares were being acquired at a   bargain price.    ”Unless we believe we will receive an adequate return on   investment,” he wrote in a 2007  ”we will not spend money on capital   expenditures to build new stores or upgrade our existing base   simply because our competitors do. If share repurchases or   acquisitions appear to be more productive, then we will allocate   capital to those options appropriately.” ’ ”   And for years Lampert concluded that share buybacks were the best   use of the company’s money. They continued even through the   financial crisis and totaled $5. 8 billion between 2005 and 2010,   sometimes at prices as high as $170 per share. Sears’ earnings in   the same period were $3. 8 billion.    Today the stock is trading for under $8.  ” ’   Now that Sears is short on cash and faces mounting debt, Lampert   has turned from buybacks to dismantling what was once America’’s   largest and most successful retailer, said David Tawil, president   of New   Maglan Capital. Tawil has spent his career   working in corporate restructuring and bankruptcy proceedings.   Sears spun off its Lands’’ End brand to investors in 2014 and is   exploring ”alternatives” that could include sales of Kenmore   appliances and Craftsman tools. ’ ’   ”Eddie has orchestrated for himself, and for the benefit of   shareholders, the most protracted liquidation in history,” Tawil   said in an interview with Business Insider. ’ ’   A Sears spokesman, Howard Riefs, said last year that the spinoffs   were meant to create shareholder value and to fund Sears’’   turnaround. He noted that the company has raised billions from   the asset sales and other financing efforts, and those funds   have ”provided liquidity to help fund our transformation.” ’ ’   More recently, he pointed Business Insider  Lampert published on May 11, in which   Lampert said the company is ”fighting like hell” to overcome   its challenges. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Lampert got his start at Goldman Sachs, working in the New     bank’s   department. He left the bank   after four years and in 1988 started a hedge fund, ESL   Investments, at just 26 years old. ” ’   For a time he was a Wall Street superstar. BusinessWeek compared   him to Warren Buffett because of his incredible track record   as an investor. ESL Investments generated annualized returns of   more than 20% per year for 20 years, marking one of the strongest     investment records in history, according to a 2013   . ’ ”   Through ESL, Lampert gained control of Kmart in 2003 and he   combined it with Sears in 2005 to create Sears Holdings in an   $11. 5 billion deal. ESL, long one of Sears’ largest shareholders,   now owns about half of the company. ” ’   It was soon after he took the reins at Sears, first as chairman,   that Lampert began the share buybacks. In his annual letters to   Sears shareholders, Lampert defends buybacks as a way to provide   ”liquidity” (or a buyer) for shareholders who are looking to sell   and increase ownership of the company for investors who hold on. ’ ’   But to critics, they are simply a financial maneuver to drive up     earnings and create the illusion that a company is   doing better than it really is. ’ ”   With the buybacks came cuts in spending on the retailer’s stores,   as well as reduced promotions and advertising, despite Lampert’s   promises to revive the company. ” ’  ’ ’   Lampert ”had a perspective that the retail industry as a whole   was too   and not enough ” one   former   Sears executive told Business Insider. The   executive asked not to be identified discussing private matters. ’ ’   ”He wanted to demonstrate to the world that you could reduce   advertising and inventory investment  —   and yes, sales would fall   to some new normal  —   but you would have a more profitable   business,” the former executive said. ’ ’   At the time, Lampert believed in the   success of Sears,   according to the executive. When he was buying the stock at $170,   more than $150 per share above where it is today, he thought it   was a better capital investment than store upgrades, because it   was his theory that the stock would never be cheaper. Lampert had   high hopes for himself and for Sears. ’ ’   ”I want to be known as a great businessman,” he  in 2006, shortly after the Sears acquisition. His   greatest fear, he said, was that he wouldn’’t live long enough to   complete all his goals. ’ ’   ”He was completely confident that he was going to be the next   Warren Buffett,” the former executive told Business Insider. ”He   felt that he had created a   winner in Sears and it would   be his Berkshire Hathaway.” ’ ’   That is not how it has worked. Instead, the company has been   unable to keep up with shoppers. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”The retail industry is predicated on serving the customer,   valuing the customer, listening to the customer, and ultimately   giving the customer what she wants  —   and it’s the employees who   deliver this. Anything less is a recipe for terminal illness, if   not suicide,” says Robin Lewis, a   retail consultant and   CEO of industry publication . ”Clearly,   in the case of Sears, Eddie Lampert has turned a completely blind   eye to this truism, and has been bleeding the company to a long   and slow but   death for the sole benefit of major   investors and himself.” ’ ’   Under Lampert, Sears failed to invest in major capital   improvements, such as store maintenance or new store concepts.    recounted a 2005 strategy session between Lampert and   the top   executives of the company: ’ ’ Once their presentations started, Lampert also began poking     holes in virtually every idea. ’ ” ’What’s the benefit of that?’ he asked again and again.     ’What’s the value?’ He shot down a modest $2 million proposal     to improve lighting in the stores. ’Why invest in that?’ He     skewered a plan to sell DVDs at a discounted price to better     compete with Target and  . ’It doesn’t matter what     Target and   do,’ he declared. ” ’   As Lampert slashed spending   improvements, ”the stores   began going down,” a   Kmart store employee who was laid   off in February 2016 told Business Insider. ’ ’  ’ ’   When Lampert took over, company executives visited stores and   told workers they were no longer allowed to discuss any problems   the stores were having, according to the employee. ’ ’   ”When they quit asking and started telling you how it should be   run according to corporate standards, the stores began to go   down,” the employee said. ”There is no morale in any of the   stores.” ’ ’   An employee of a Sears store in Elyria, Ohio, told Business   Insider last year that his store is falling apart. ’ ’   ”The walls and floors in my store are all beat to hell . .. the   roof leaks, the escalator and the elevator break down frequently,   but ’’Fast Eddie’’ doesn’’t want to spend money on the stores,” the   employee said. ’ ’   Sears spokesman Howard Riefs has denied that employees are   discouraged from giving feedback. ’ ’   ”One of our cultural beliefs as a company is to embrace   feedback,” Riefs has told Business Insider. ”We have a variety of   ways that associates can give authentic feedback  —   even   anonymously, so we would disagree with that suggestion.” ’ ’   Lampert, meanwhile, has defended his decisions.  ’ ’   ”I was criticized for not investing enough in the stores,”   Lampert . ”My point of view is we couldn’’t invest in   everything.” ’ ’  ’ ”   Investors bought into Lampert’s strategy, at first. In 2006,   Sears’ stock rose roughly 45% to $156. ” ’   Then quarterly sales started declining in early 2007, and the   stock followed suit. ’ ”   Many Sears executives were expecting Lampert to eventually   refocus on investing in stores and advertising. When that didn’t   happen, some employees began to grow concerned. ” ’   ”There was a feeling of, ’’OK, now we have to invest and compete,’’   through some combination of advertising and promotion,” the   former Sears executive said. ”But it became clear that he either   didn’t know how or didn’t want to spend the money.” ’ ’   At that point, senior executives began leaving the company.  ’ ”   Since May 2007, Sears’ shares have dropped 95%. Over the same   period, sales have dropped from $50. 7 billion in 2007 to $22. 1   billion in 2016. ” ’   To raise money, the company started selling its real estate and   spinning off brands like Sears Hometown and Outlet stores and   Craftsman, which was sold to Stanley Black & Decker in   January for about $900 million to be paid out over the next   several years. ’ ’   In one of its biggest transactions to date,  to execute      agreements for 266 Sears and Kmart stores. The deal helped Sears   raise about $2. 7 billion, most of which was quickly burned   through to pay off debt. ’ ”   Seritage is in the process of recapturing the stores it bought   from Sears and renting out the space to new tenants for as much   as four times the rent that Sears paid. If it can profit from   this, that’s good for Lampert. He is Seritage’s chairman and   his hedge fund owns about 40% of the real estate investor’s   limited partnership, as well as 8. 5% of the voting power in its   common stock. ” ’  ’ ’   Meanwhile, Sears has been cutting costs by closing hundreds of   stores and laying off hundreds of thousands of employees. In   2007, Sears had 3, 418 stores and 315, 000 employees in the US. The   company now has fewer than 1, 430 stores and   140, 000 employees. ’ ’   Lampert’’s strategy of underinvesting in stores and selling off   assets ”starved capital and management resources from the retail   business, leaving it unable to respond and adapt to the needs of   the evolving consumer and marketplace,” Lewis said. ’ ’   The stores are now shells of what they once were, with leaking   ceilings, broken escalators, and sometimes no employees to work   the registers, according to analysts,  and  from the store level to corporate headquarters. In   some stores, employees  to shield shoppers from sections that stand   empty. ’ ’   ”The majority of stores now border on disgraceful and show a   complete lack of retail standards and proper store management,”   Neil Saunders, the CEO of retail consulting firm Conlumino, told   Business Insider. ”The impression is of a retailer that has   completely given up, and this is something consumers notice.” ’ ’   But there was one party that was benefiting  —   at least for some   time  —   from this strategy: shareholders. ’ ”   Bruce Berkowitz of Fairholme Capital Management told  in 2013 that Lampert’s spinoffs had helped   deliver about $10 a share in assets to Sears shareholders, even   as the stock price was tanking. At the time, Fairholme owned   about 20% of Sears shares. Berkowitz and Fairholme own   closer to 25% now.  ” ’  ’ ’   The losses eventually lost Lampert the support of many investors   in his hedge fund, ESL Investments. ’ ’   ”Investors are heading for the exits, discouraged by the   declining fortunes of Mr. Lampert’s signature stake in Sears   Holdings,” Randall Smith at the Times  in 2013. ’ ”   The fund’s assets are now down to  from $18 billion in 2007, according to a March   2017 regulatory filing. ” ’   Lampert says he is committed to restoring Sears to   profitability and continuing retail operations online and through   a smaller fleet of stores. ’ ’   ”I believe Sears Holdings can continue to operate as a very   significant   integrated retailer with a large   number of stores as long as we receive the support of our vendors   and other stakeholders,” Lampert  ’ ”   The company’s window of opportunity for a turnaround is   shrinking. It’s falling deeper into debt and just lost its second   chief financial officer in six months, just as it begins talks   with lenders over its $500 million loan facility maturing in   July. ” ’  ’ ’   In addition to its chief financial officer leaving, Sears has   lost more than a quarter of its executive team in the last five   months. The company posted a loss of $471 million in the first   quarter, compared to a $303 million loss last year. Revenue   declined to $5. 39 billion from $5. 88 billion. ’ ’   Analysts say a turnaround is hard to imagine at this point. ’ ’   S&P Global Market Intelligence in April identified Sears as    saying   it has a 24% chance of default within a year. ’ ”   Sears recently said that it’s planning to cut more costs and that   it’s reviewing bids in excess of $700 million for more than 60 of   its real estate properties. ” ”   Selling off real estate will give the company a   cash   infusion, but it also diminishes the company’s lifeline as it   struggles to staunch losses, according to Moody’s vice president   and senior analyst Christina Boni. ” ’   ”Sears’ financial performance remains extremely weak which is   prompting the acceleration of cost reductions by an additional   $250 million,” Boni said recently. ”Its effort to sell real   estate which has produced over $700 million of bids currently   will enhance liquidity, but accelerates the timeline required to   stem operating losses as it asset base diminishes.”    Eventually, the company will run out of funding sources,   according to Tawil. ’ ’   ”Normally businesses like this fail and get sold off in pieces in   bankruptcy,” Tawil said. ”This has been the greatest      liquidation in the history of our nation.” ’ ’ *A version of this story was published in June 2016. ’ ’Sears Holdings spent $5. 8 billion buying back. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’