’  ’ ”   Ev Williams, who   Twitter, is    apologizing   for the site’s role in President Donald Trump’s electoral win. ” ’   ”It’’s a very bad thing, Twitter’’s role in that,” Williams said   . ”If it’’s true that   he wouldn’’t be president if it weren’’t for Twitter, then yeah,   I’’m sorry.” ’ ’ that one big reason he won   the election was Twitter. ’ ’   ”Well, let me tell you about Twitter,” Trump told Tucker Carlson.   ”I think that maybe I wouldn’’t be here if it wasn’’t for Twitter.” ’ ’   Trump explained that his social media accounts on Twitter,   Facebook, and Instagram give him his own ”form of media” where he   can talk directly to the American people, bypassing   the press  for what he sees as unfair coverage. ’ ’   Yet many of the people working at those social media companies,   and in Silicon Valley in general, are not big fans of Trump.    his   attempted travel ban, for example. Tech CEOs have also telling  with him. ’ ”   One of the few big and visible Trump supporters in the Valley,   venture capitalist Peter Thiel, even joked about Twitter’s role   in . ” ’   ”I think the crazy thing is, at a place like Twitter, they were   all working for Trump this whole year,” Thiel said, ”even   though they thought they were working for [former Democratic   presidential candidate Bernie] Sanders.” ’ ”   Today, Williams is out running his own company, blogging site   Medium, though he remains on Twitter’s board and a major   shareholder. ” ’  ’ ”   It’s not the first time he’s publicly mentioned Twitter and   Trump. He joked about the president when he spoke to the   graduating class at the University of Nebraska   last month. ” ’   Williams likened the tech industry’’s desire to ”democratize”   everything (i. e. put technology into the hands of everyone,   instead in the hands of select few) to the Greek myth   of Prometheus stealing fire the gods and giving it to   humans. ’ ’   ”What we tend to forget is that Zeus was so pissed at Prometheus   that he chained him to a rock so eagles could peck out his guts   for eternity,” Williams . ”Some would say that’’s what we deserve for giving the   power of tweets to Donald Trump.” ’ ’   It got a big laugh and then he confessed, ”I was nervous about   that joke in Nebraska.” ’ ”   Neither Twitter nor Williams’ current company, Medium,   immediately answered our requests for further comment. ” ’Ev Williams, who   Twitter, is. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’