’  ’ ’   Martin Casado is a legend in his own corner of the tech world for   inventing a technology that radically alters the way computer   networks are built. ’ ’   He invented the tech while he was a PhD student at Stanford. He   took that invention, and two of the professors advising him   (legends in their own right) Nick McKeown from Stanford and Scott   Shenker from University of California, Berkeley, and founded a   startup back in 2012. It was called Nicira and it was backed by   VCs like  (””). ’ ’   ”Nicira launched into the networking industry like a cannonball   hitting placid water,” a16z founder   That’’s true. ’ ”   The company was quietly founded in 2007, but   didn’t officially launch until early 2012. Five   months later, it sold to VMware for a stunning $1. 26   billion.  ” ’   After staying with VMware for a few years, Casado left in early   2016 to become a VC with a16z. But the interesting thing is,   he doesn’’t think of himself as a runaway success. He thinks of   himself as someone who ”got good at failure.” ’ ’   Or so he told the 2017 graduating class at his first alma mater,   Northern Arizona University, where he spoke after receiving an   honorary PhD on May 13. ’ ’   ”When I was standing where you are, I wanted to be the world’’s   best computational physicist,” Casado confessed to the crowd.   ”And soon after I wanted to be the world’’s foremost cyber policy   expert. But instead I went to grad school, and then I wanted to   be the world’’s best academic. And I certainly didn’’t accomplish   that.” ’ ’   ”I only found computer science because I couldn’’t hack it as a   physicist, and then I failed as a microbiology student. I made   many, many missteps as the first time founder of a company,” he   said. ’ ”   Casado’s speech was short, sweet, funny, and profound. ” ’  ’ ”   I heard it because I was in the audience that day, proudly   watching my own daughter graduate with a degree   in astrophysics (notice how I slipped in that motherly   brag? ). While I’m insanely proud of my kid, I’m also biting my   nails over what her degree will lead to. ” ”   She doesn’t want to go to grad school right now. And although she   knows forms of math that I didn’t even know existed, what kind of   career will she have? I don’t know. And neither does she. ” ”   But Casado’s speech flipped my view on it. He offered four solid   bits of advice to students, which is good advice for anyone, at   any age: ” ’   Since no one can predict the future, while on the path to a   goal, a better goal ”is likely to smack you while you’’re looking   the other way, and you’’d be an idiot not to follow it,” he said. ’ ’   His advice is to ”take some fraction of that effort and work on   being open to change, and to opportunity,” while working toward   your goals. ’ ”   If he hadn’t been open to change in his career, he never would   have invented an   technology. ” ’   He suggests that it is really ”failure,” not ”progress” that   indicates whether you are living up to your potential. ’ ’   If you are failing, you are truly pushing yourself, and ”not   stalling your own progress by hiding.” ’ ’   The true skill, then, is ”to learn to embrace failure. Not   only embrace failure, get good at it, and by that I mean get back   up, apply what you’’ve learned, and hit reset.” ’ ”   Every person is unique, and that means what’s right for others   isn’t always right for you. When it comes to advice, listen to   the parts that ring true for you, and disregard the rest. ” ’   ”You’’re going to take one path out of an infinite number of   possibilities,” Casado said. ”And you’’re going to navigate it   your way.” ’ ’   So, if there is a secret to life, happiness, and success, it’’s   this: ”The opportunity is hidden in the sloppiness. If you hold   too hard to specific ideas of where you want to go, or what the   landscape will look like, or what the world will provide you, I   can guarantee you’’ll be disappointed.” ’ ’ ’ ’Martin Casado is a legend in his own corner of. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’