’  ’ ’   LONDON  —   Police are    ”a number of confirmed fatalities” and injuries at Manchester   Arena on Monday following reports of a loud explosion coming from   within the building. ’ ’   Officials have not confirmed the cause of the explosions, which   occurred at 10. 30 p. m. local time (BST) at an Ariana Grande   concert. Sky News is reporting that police are treating it as a   terrorist incident, citing sources in the North West Counter   Terrorism Unit. ’ ’   Manchester police  to avoid the area surrounding the arena, where   Grande had just finished a concert. The Amercian singer is safe,   according to her spokesperson. ’ ’   The incident caused concertgoers to scramble out of the building,   and videos posted on social media showed police cars and   ambulances rushing to the scene. British Transport Police said   the explosion occurred in the ”foyer area,” or lobby, of the   Manchester Arena, which has a capacity of 21, 000. ’ ’   ”Please AVOID the area as first responders work tirelessly at the   scene,” the Greater Manchester Police wrote on Twitter. They   added: ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tPolice statement on incident at Manchester Arena  ’ ’   Kim Jackson, a witness at the scene, described the incident to   Business Insider: ”We had floor seats and were just heading to   exit. There was a massive bang from towards the back of the arena   from the corridor area. ’ ’   ”Everyone went silent and then huge crowds of people came running   from the back and everyone was screaming and crying. We just   wanted to get out of there as quickly as possible so we just   headed straight for the exit. When we got up to the corridor   there was smoke and we could smell burning. We just ran outside   and got as far away as we could.” ’ ’   Speaking to Manchester Evening New, concert goer Sibion Joyce   added: ”The concert had ended and she had played her last encore.   She went off and the lights came on. Everyone got up to leave. As   we did we just heard a loud bang. People were running and people   were really scared.” ’ ’   Trains have been cancelled to and from Manchester Victoria train   station, according to National Rail, while the station approach   has reportedly been clsoed by police. ’ ’ Video captures the moment of the explosion: ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tIf you look towards the left you see the explosion and hear the bang. I hope to GOD everyone is ok, and so glad Jess and Em are.   ’ ’ The blast caused pandemonium inside the Manchester Arena   and people ran for safety. ’ ’ ’ ”Video shows people running inside Manchester’s Victoria Station after blast reported following Ariana Grande concert  ” ’    Ambulances rushed to scene and witnesses on the   ground have reported an armed police presence. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tDeveloping Large amount of ambulances heading to Manchester Arena Following Reports of 2 Explosions  ’ ’ ’t’t’tScene outside Manchester Arena.  ’ ’ There were also reports of a bomb disposal unit heading   into the arena. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tBomb disposal going into the arena.  ’ ’ People emerged from the arena with injuries. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tPictures of injured people after explosions in  arena..  ’ ’ This story is developing. ’ ’LONDON  —   Police are reporting ”a number of. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’