’  ’ ”   If you think investors buy into companies because they make money   now and will make money in the future, you’d be wrong when it   comes to Ford. ” ”   The carmaker posted a record annual profit in 2015 and nearly   matched it in 2016. But on Monday, Ford ousted its CEO, Mark   Fields, and replaced him with Jim Hackett, a former Steelcase CEO   who had been running Ford’s Smart Mobility initiative. ” ”   Fields’ resignation came fast: following a fractious annual   shareholder meeting, he departed last week  —   Hackett said he was   surprised when Chairman Bill Ford offered the job. Under Fields,   Ford shares had declined 40% despite the epic profits and a   booming US sales market. ” ”   Hackett will now have to craft a story that Wall Street wants to   buy. And make no mistake, that’s what Wall Street is looking for.   Tesla has surpassed the market caps of Ford and General Motors,   based on prognostications about its future  —   which likely won’t   entail profits, but will certainly involve massive cash   expenditures. ” ”   If this strikes you as being sort of disturbing, then welcome to   the   world of the auto industry. For awhile now, the   narrative around Detroit has been that it’s old, slow, and about   to watch Silicon Valley eat its lunch. ” ”   The auto industry is one of those businesses that’s pretty good   when it’s good and mostly not too bad when it isn’t (the   financial crisis and the Detroit meltdown was an obvious   exception). In the US alone, an automaker can expect to sell   something like 15   million new vehicles every year.   When the market booms, as it has for the past three years, that   number can get close to 18 million. If you’re selling pickups and   SUVs, you can expect to rake in the money, as those vehicles are   highly profitable. ” ”   Everybody knows how this story ends. But that’s boring. Ford’s   stock price isn’t going to go to $50 per share (from its current   $11) anytime soon. General Motors’ isn’t going to rocket higher,   either, despite CEO Mary Barra’s intense focus on ensuring the GM   only occupies markets where it earns significant returns.  ” ”   The Tesla story, the Uber story, the Apple car story, the Google   Car story  —   these narratives don’t yet have endings. In fact,   only the Tesla story really has   a beginning. Apple probably isn’t building a   car, Google can’t figure out how to make money on     tech, and Uber is spending an enormous amount of money to put   Lyft out of business, only to see Lyft grow faster than Uber. ” ”   There’s nothing wrong with buying a story, but to a certain   extent you’re hoping for a happy ending. If you’d bought the   Tesla story in 2010, after the carmaker’s IPO, you’d up 1, 500%.   But if you’d invested in other   companies back then,   you could have lost everything, as they disappeared or went   bankrupt. ” ”   Meanwhile, you could buy Ford’s   story and earn a 5. 5%   dividend. The narrative isn’t radical. There are no flying cars.   It’s been the same for decades. And there aren’t yet any glaring   problems with the company. So in that respect, Hackett has some   time to recraft the automaker’s message. But he doesn’t have   forever. When a downturn arrives, autonomous vehicles and   electric cars and big data will take a back seat to a   fundamental: Can you sell cars and make money doing it? ” ’ This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of   Business Insider. ’ ’If you think investors buy into companies. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’