’  ’ ’   The chief ethics lawyer for President George W. Bush was baffled   at the latest kerfuffle between the White House and the Office of   Government Ethics. ’ ”   On Monday,  that President Donald Trump’s White House refused to   disclose to the OGE any ethics waivers granted to former   lobbyists who now work in the administration. ” ’   Through a Freedom of Information Act request, the publication   obtained a letter from Mick Mulvaney, the head of the Office of   Management and Budget, to Walter Schaub, head of the OGE. The   letter asked Schaub to withdraw a request he sent to federal   agencies to obtain copies of all the waivers the administration   has given. ’ ”   The Trump administration claimed in the letter that Schaub did   not have the legal authority to demand the waivers. Painter said   that wasn’t good enough. ” ’   ”Is there any rationale that wasn’’t purely a legal argument?”   Richard Painter, Bush’’s chief ethics lawyer from 2005 to 2007 and   currently a University of Minnesota law professor, told Business   Insider. ”What’’s a rationale that is not a legal argument? I   haven’’t heard it.” ’ ’   ”So was there any good policy reason not to share waivers with   the Office of Government Ethics?” he said. ’ ’   Several former lobbyists and industry lawyers now hold   administration jobs. The Times reported that Trump has hired     at a rate that far surpassed his predecessor, former   President Barack Obama, despite pledges to the contrary. Schaub,   who was appointed to his role by Obama and is in the last year of   his   term, told the Times the White House request was   ”extraordinary” and he has ”never seen anything like it.” ’ ”   Without the waivers, the OGE, which provides ethical oversight of   the executive branch, would have no way to know whether any   former lobbyists are violating ethics statutes or have been   excused by the White House. In a statement to the Times, the   White House said the Obama appointee’s request for the waivers   was partisan politics. ” ’   Trump made ties between politicians and lobbyists a sticking   point of his campaign, frequently promising to ”drain the swamp.”   In late January, he signed an executive order that barred former   lobbyists from working on matters that involved people and issues   they worked with or on previously. In that order, Trump, like   Obama before him, provided the option for himself to issue   waivers to lobbyists as he sees fit. But that executive order did   not contain language that made the waivers public. ’ ’   Painter, who supported Democratic presidential nominee Hillary   Clinton during the general election, said the executive order   also does not say whether those waivers are confidential. ’ ’   ”You know, if the president wants to revise the ethics executive   order” to say that they are confidential, they ”still should be   shared by the Office of Government Ethics,” Painter said. ”But   then the office would have to not disclose them. . .. But the   order did not say that the waivers were confidential.” ’ ’   ”And so, in any event, it is critical to OGE’’s function . .. that   it knows what’’s going on in the agencies, including in the White   House, with regards to ethics compliances and waivers,” he added.   ”It’’s clearly within OGE’’s statutory mandate to gather this   information. So, what is the reason for withholding it? There’’s   no reason whatsoever for trying to keep the ethics waivers secret   from the Office of Government Ethics. There’’s no justification   for that. So I don’’t know why they’’re doing it.” ’ ’  ’ ’   The OGE, under the laws Painter referenced, has authority to make   such a request of federal agencies. The Times reported that   it is debated whether the White House itself is a ”federal   agency” that falls under the same requirements. Regardless, the   letter from Mulvaney to Schaub made it clear the administration   was halting the OGE’’s request for copies of the waivers issued   throughout the administration by June 1 across all of the   executive branch. ’ ’   ”This data call appears to raise legal questions regarding the   scope of OGE’s authorities,” the letter read. ”I therefore   request that you stay the data call until these questions are   resolved.” ’ ’   OMB also falsely claimed in a statement that the letter   obtained by the Times was ”leaked.” It was obtained through a   Freedom of Information Act request. ’ ” Schaub   wrote a letter to Mulvaney rejecting the White House’s   request that the OGE suspend its initial request for the   waivers. ” ’   ”The unusual nature of your letter highlights OGE’s   responsibility to lead the executive branch ethics program with   independence, free from political pressure,” Schaub wrote.   ”Accordingly, OGE declines your request to suspend its ethics   inquiry and reiterates its expectation that agencies will fully   comply with its directive by June 1, 2017. Public confidence in   the integrity of government decision making demands no less.” ’ ’   ”OGE is exercising its authority and independence appropriately,”   he later wrote. ”OGE’s April 28, 2017, directive is supported by   ample legal authority and compliant with applicable procedures. I   want to assure you that a request from the Director of the Office   of Management and Budget is not something that I decline   lightly.” ’ ”   In a call with Mulvaney on Monday night, Senate Minority Leader   Chuck Schumer asked the director to fulfill Schaub’s request. ” ’   ”There is absolutely no excuse for the administration to keep   these waivers from the OGE or the American people,” the New York   Democrat said in a Tuesday statement on the call. ”I also   expressed to Director Mulvaney my deep frustration with President   Trump’s failure to keep his promise to ’’drain the swamp,’’ and he   assured me that he would take my concerns under consideration  —   I   hope they make this change for the good of our country.” ’ ’   Paul S. Ryan, vice president of common cause and former executive   director of the campaign legal center, called the move to block   Schaub’’s request ”an outrage and part of a disturbing pattern.” ’ ’   ”OGE was created in the wake of the Watergate scandal to monitor   ethics compliance, but the Trump administration is denying it the   ability to do so,” he said in a statement. ”The OGE is charged   with ensuring government compliance with ethical standards and it   must be allowed to perform that duty. This is the latest example   in a long line of troubling moves by the Trump administration to   conduct the business of government in secret.” ’ ’   During the campaign, Trump  ”draining   the swamp” and his opponents ties to lobbyists central to   his message, particularly in the later weeks of his quest for   office when he introduced the slogan. ’ ’   He claimed that opponents such as Ohio Gov. John Kasich, Sens.   Marco Rubio of Florida and Ted Cruz of Texas, former Secretary of   State Hillary Clinton, and former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida were   all compromised by the influence lobbyists held over them. ’ ’   ”Crooked Hillary Clinton is bought and paid for by Wall Street,   lobbyists and special interests,” . ”She will sell our country down the tubes!” ’ ’   ”I am   my campaign and am therefore not controlled by   the lobbyists and special interests like lightweight Rubio or Ted   Cruz!”    February. ’ ’   he wrote: ”Remember, politicians are all talk and no action     they will never be able to MAKE OUR COUNTRY GREAT AGAIN!   Controlled by lobbyists & donors.” ’ ’   Asked if the administration’’s refusal to provide the waivers   violated Trump’’s   promises during the campaign,   Painter said ”of course it does.” ’ ’   ”They put this executive order in and then they seek secret   waivers and they won’’t even tell the Office of Government Ethics   about the waiver,” he said. ’ ’The chief ethics lawyer for President George W. ...’ ’’ ’’ ’’