’  ’ ’   LONDON  —   The man who detonated a fatal bomb in the Manchester   Arena on Monday night has been formally identified as      Salman Abedi, British police said Tuesday. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   According to police, Abedi, who they believe acted alone, killed   22 and injured at least 59 when he  in central Manchester,   where the pop star Ariana Grande was performing. ’ ’   Abedi died in the attack. ’ ’   The US media outlets CBS and NBC identified the attacker as Abedi   earlier Tuesday. The Associated Press confirmed his name shortly   before 4:30 p. m. local time, citing anonymous US officials. ’ ’   Abedi, also known as Salman Ramadan Abedi, is believed to have   travelled to Manchester from London by train before the attack,   Reuters reported. ’ ’   The Islamic State said Tuesday that a ”caliphate soldier” was   responsible for the attack. Dan Coats, the director of US   intelligence, said in congressional testimony on Tuesday that the   claim had yet to be verified. ’ ’   A Downing Street representative said the government ”would not   comment on leaks”  in a parliamentary   briefing shortly before 4 p. m. ’ ’   Prime Minister Theresa May said in a speech earlier that police   and security services knew the identity of the attacker but would   not name him at the time to protect the interests of the   investigation. ’ ’ that Abedi was born in Manchester and was one of   four children to parents who were Libyan refugees who fled to   Britain at the height of the Gaddafi regime. ’ ’   The newspaper reported that Abedi grew up in the Whalley Range   area of the city, about two miles southwest of the city center. ’ ’   An unidentified    man was  in south Manchester in connection with the attack,   and armed police officers also raided two addresses near the   Chorlton area of Manchester around lunchtime, . ’ ’   The pictures below show forensic investigators investigating a   home in the Fallowfield area of Manchester believed to be linked   to the attacker. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Those concerned about loved ones who may have been in the area   during the attack can call 0800 096 0095. ’ ’ This is a developing story. ’ ’LONDON  —   The man who detonated a fatal bomb. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’