’  ’ ’   A group of UK police chiefs blasted intelligence officials in the   US on Wednesday for leaking photographs of evidence relating to   the suicide bombing in Manchester earlier this week. ’ ”   In decrying the leaks, the National Police Chiefs’ Council joined   other UK government officials who have expressed frustration with   their American security allies since the attack, which killed 22   people and injured more than 50 others Monday. ” ”   On Wednesday, The New York Times published  of the attacker’s homemade bomb, including a   shredded backpack, a   battery, and nuts and screws used as   shrapnel.  ” ’   In a  a spokesperson representing the   British police group’’s counterterrorism committee said the   leaks ”undermine our investigations and the confidence of   victims.” ’ ’   ”We greatly value the important relationships we have with our   trusted intelligence, law enforcement and security partners   around the world. These relationships enable us to collaborate   and share privileged and sensitive information that allows us to   defeat terrorism and protect the public at home and   abroad,” the spokesperson said. ’ ’   ”When that trust is breached it undermines these relationships,   and undermines our investigations and the confidence of victims,   witnesses and their families. This damage is even greater when it   involves unauthorized disclosure of potential evidence in the   middle of a major counter terrorism investigation.” ’ ’   Another government official called the leak ”completely   unacceptable.” ’ ’   ”We are furious. This is completely unacceptable,” the unnamed   government official . ”These images leaked from inside the US   system will be distressing for victims, their families and the   wider public. The issue is being raised at every relevant level   by the British authorities with their US counterparts.”  ’ ’  ’ ’   The photo leak undercut  from UK Home Secretary Amber Rudd,   who hours earlier said she had spoken with US officials about the   ”flow of information” and made clear ”it should not happen   again.”  ’ ’   On Monday, as news outlets on both sides of the Atlantic were   scrambling for details of the explosion at Manchester Arena,   American news outlets   —   such as the name of   suspected attacker Salman Abedi  —   before British police released   the information to local outlets. ’ ’   ”The British police have been very clear that they want to   control the flow of information in order to protect the   operational integrity, the element of surprise, so it is   irritating if it gets released from other sources, and I have   been very clear with our friends that that should not happen   again,” Rudd said on BBC Radio 4’’s ”Today” program. ’ ”   Despite Rudd’s urging, information about Abedi’s family and means   of his identification continued to emerge Wednesday.  ” ’A group of UK police chiefs blasted. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’