’  ’ ”   The FBI says it is taking a closer look at Jared Kushner in its   investigation of alleged ties between President Donald Trump’s   associates and Russian officials during the 2016 election. ” ’   Kushner is Trump’’s    and a senior adviser in the White   House. Federal investigators say they believe Kushner may have   ”significant information” related to their ongoing inquiry, NBC   News  on Thursday. ’ ’   It was  that a White House staffer close to Trump   had caught the attention of investigators. ’ ’   The Washington Post said Thursday that authorities were looking   into a ”series of meetings” held by Kushner and Russian   operatives in December. Kushner’’s meetings with Russian   Ambassador Sergey Kislyak  gave investigators pause due to the ”extent and nature   of his interactions” with the Kremlin, The Post reported, citing   people familiar with the investigation. ’ ’   Both The Post and NBC News reported that Kushner has not been   accused of any wrongdoing. ’ ’’ ’   ”Mr. Kushner previously volunteered to share with Congress what   he knows about these meetings. He will do the same if he is   contacted in connection with any other inquiry,” Jamie Gorelick,   one of his attorneys, said in a statement. ’ ”   The meeting among Kushner, the Russian ambassador, and the banker   from Moscow  in March. Kislyak reportedly   orchestrated the meeting between Kushner and Vnesheconombank CEO   Sergey N. Gorkov, who was appointed by Russian President Vladimir   Putin in January 2016 as part of a restructuring of the bank’s   management team,    last year. ” ”   The new development suggests that the FBI’s Russia investigation   reaches among the highest levels of the White House. Former Trump   associates have also been named in the ongoing probe  —   including,   most recently, former national security adviser Michael Flynn,    by the Senate Intelligence   Committee this week. Flynn declined to comply with a subpoena for   documents related to its investigation, invoking his Fifth   Amendment rights in response. ” ”   Despite the FBI’s new focus on Kushner, he remains active in the   Trump administration, having just returned from the president’s   first foreign trip as a head of state this week. ” ’ Natasha Bertrand contributed to this report. ’ ’The FBI says it is taking a closer look at. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’