’  ’ ’   The state of Nevada is taking a new approach to tackling the   rising price of prescription drugs with a new bill. ’ ”   The bill, introduced in March by state Senator Yvanna Cancela,   has faced opposition from lobbyists and nonprofit patient groups   that disagree with the bill’s approach to reining in prescription   drug spending. Even so, the bill, known as SB 265, has  on May 19 and the Assembly on May   25.  ” ’   The bill now goes on to Nevada Governor Brian Sandoval.  ’ ”   Nevada is one of 23 states with proposed legislation to take on   the rising cost of prescription drugs. But unlike others that   focus on drug prices in a general sense, Cancela’s bill   focuses on two specific groups of drugs that are used   to treat diabetes: insulin and biguanides.  ” ”   It’s the latest milestone in government actions at the  state, and  levels that attempt to change the way we spend   money on prescription drugs.  ” ”   Diabetes is a group of conditions in which the body can’t   properly regulate blood sugar that affects roughly 30 million   people in the US. And for many people living with diabetes  —     including the 1. 25 million people in the US who have     diabetes  —   injecting insulin is part of the daily   routine.  ” ’  ’ ”   Insulin, a hormone that healthy bodies produce, has been   used to treat diabetes for almost a century, though it’s gone   through some modifications. In the past few years, the list price   of insulin has increased routinely. ” ’   The list price of the most commonly used insulins have increased   roughly 300% over the last decade. Technically, there’’s no   ”generic” insulin, though a cheaper version of a     insulin did . There are cheaper medications   for biguanides, such as metformin, which are used to treat     diabetes. ’ ’   Before becoming a state senator, Cancela worked as a   director for the Culinary Workers Union in Las Vegas, which   represents about 60, 000 workers. The union pays for its members   health insurance through a   trust, which Cancela told   Business Insider gave the organization a lot of access to details   about how its health funds were being spent. One of the drugs she   noticed was becoming a problem for members was insulin.  ’ ’   There are  or 12% of the   total population, that have one of the two types of diabetes,   with another 39% in the prediabetes stage, in which blood glucose   levels are elevated but not to the point of   diabetes.   Because diabetes is one of the biggest medical problems in   Nevada, Cancela said, it made for a perfect starting point to   introduce legislation.  ’ ’ originally took four main approaches to   confronting the drugmakers that make insulin and biguanides to   treat diabetes.  ’ ’   Like most legislation that tries to rein in prescription drug   spending, SB265 is facing its fair share of pushback and   criticism. ’ ”   As of April, Cancela said there’s been around 70 lobbyists who   have come in for the session to oppose the bill, which is more   than double the number present for  according to The Nevada   Independent. There’s also been a number of patient groups that   have spoken out as well, including those representing people with    and epilepsy. ” ’   ”Proposed legislation in the Nevada State Senate unfairly targets   people with diabetes, would be a major windfall for health   insurance companies, and leaves patients wondering who’s next,”   Lupus of Nevada said in a Facebook post. ”We’re specifically   worried that Nevadans with Lupus could be singled out.” ’ ’  ’ ”   Nine pharmaceutical companies  in opposition to the bill, as well as   pharma’s lobbying group PhRMA and biotech’s lobbying group BIO.   Many brought up their opposition to disclosing more   information about how they set their prices. ” ”   A letter from Novo Nordisk  —   a company that manufactures insulin   and other diabetes medications  —   argued that the bill doesn’t   take into account the rebates drug companies pay out to   middlemen. That issue was raised in a number of the letters   opposing the bill. ” ’   ”This proposal would impose significant new, complex and punitive   requirements on drug manufacturers when manufacturers already   provide competitive discounts to payers and represent only a   single component of the enormously complex US drug pricing and   distribution system,” the company . ”This complexity, which the proposed   legislation fails to address, has resulted in confusion around   what patients pay for medicines.”  ’ ”   To be sure, there’s more to the story than just the list price a   manufacturer sets. Along the way,  that have a stake in the   price of a medication. But there’s a  about the portion each player gets. To   counter that, some drug companies have  or the amount it   actually receives in return for the drug after factoring in any   rebates or discounts paid out to middlemen. ” ’   Sanofi noted in its opposition letter that its net price for   Lantus, a   form of insulin, fell over five years. ’ ’   Sanofi said in a statement to Business Insider in April: ’ ”   Others, like Ken Thorpe, the chairman of the Partnership to Fight   Chronic Disease (a group that partners with ) and a health   policy professor at Emory University, criticized the idea   that the bill is a way to help those living with diabetes. He   argued in a piece in  that the price caps won’t keep people   from getting diabetes.  ” ’   ”If they’’re really trying to get the cost of healthcare to grow   at a slower rate, this is not the way,” he told the Appeal.   Instead, he said, there should be more of a focus on preventing   diabetes. ’ ’   Cancela said that’’s something she’’s working on as well, calling   SB265 ”one piece of the puzzle.” She has another piece of   legislation that would promote urban agriculture to increase   access to healthy foods in low income communities. ’ ’The state of Nevada is taking a new approach to. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’