’  ’ ’   LONDON  —   Britain has stopped sharing vital information with the   US related to the bombing of the Ariana Grande concert in   Manchester this week, as leaks from US are compromising   their investigation.  as well as the BBC both separately   confirmed that UK forces would stop sharing all their intel with   the Americans. ’ ’   Shortly after Britain observed one minute’’s silence to pay   respect to the victims and their families following the bombing,   ” ’ ’   The breakdown in relations comes as Greater Manchester Police   arrested two more men on Thursday morning,  bringing the total number of those in custody to   eight. Salman Abedi killed 22 people along with himself, and   injured at least 64 people at the Ariana Grande concert.  ’ ’: ’ ’   The Queen is also visiting a hospital in Manchester where   victims of are being treated: ’ ’  ’ ’   Just before 11 a. m. BST (6 a. m. ET) Greater Manchester police   tweeted: ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tPolice are responding to a call at a college in Trafford.  ’ ’   A bomb disposal unit headed to Trafford too. GM police   added at 11. 10 a. m. local time that ” ’ ’  ’ ’   People near the scene on Linby Street are tweeting pictures of   police vans and sniffer dogs: ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tA friend has sent me these pics of Linby St from earlier. He saw a dog van and bomb disposal.   ’ ’   Just after 11. 30 a. m. local time, the police said ”” ’ ’   We are also beginning to learn more about the movements of Abedi,   the prime suspect in the suicide attack, in the days before the   killings. He was reportedly in Dusseldorf four days before the   bombing,  ’ ’   CCTV footage was taken of  which carried an improvised bomb. ’ ’ ’t’t’tCCTV images believed to show bomber in the moments after he bought the rucksack used in the   ’ ’     Abedi, 22, was radicalised during trips to Syria and was     previously known to British intelligence services, officials     said.   ’ ’   Chief Constable Ian Hopkins said on Wednesday afternoon. ”I   think it’’s very clear that it’’s a network that we are dealing   with.”  ’ ’   The further two arrests come just a day after Abedi’’s   brother,    Ismail Abedi,  in Chorlton, in south Manchester, in connection   with the attack. His younger brother, Hashem Abedi was   arrested by a Libyan counterterrorism unit for allegedly   ”planning to stage an attack” in Tripoli, Libya, where his father   Ramadan Abedi was also detained, . ’ ’   Earlier this week, Ramadan Abedi told the press that when he   spoke to his   old son five days before the attack, he   sounded ”normal.” ’ ’   He said: ”We don’’t believe in killing innocents. This is not us.”   He said that his son had visited Libya a     ago and   was planning to visit Saudi Arabia. Here was Ramadan   Abedi before he was detained: ’ ’  ’ ’   Late Wednesday,  and arrested a   woman in the raid. For a brief period residents were prevented   from entering or leaving their homes and a small detonation was   heard  —   probably from the police entering the apartment. The   woman was later released without charge. ’ ’   Meanwhile, a Sky News report citing   sources   said that Salman Abedi had a  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’enior US congressman also told the ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’   On BBC Radio 5 Live, Greater Manchester Mayor Andy   Burnham said the US ”must stop” leaking info to the media. ’ ’   He said:  ’ ’   He also released a statement on Twitter: ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tUnacceptable, arrogant and must stop immediately   Mayor’s anger over leaks from US. Andy has raised this with the acting US Ambassador  ” ’   Meanwhile,   ’ ’      Liam   is among the victims: ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tWe are devastated to learn    Liam   is among the victims of the Manchester Arena bombing:   ’ ’   Eilidh Macleod, a    Scottish girl was also one of the   latest to be named: ’ ’  ’ ’   Among the 22 dead, Martyn Hett, a   . His friend Russell   Hayward announced on Twitter that Hett was among those killed. ’ ’   He said: ”We got the news last night that our wonderful iconic   and beautiful Martyn didn’t survive. He left this world exactly   how he lives, centre of attention.” ’ ’ has been paying tribute to his brother on Twitter   and singer Mariah Carey also paid her respects to him on   Instagram: ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tI was a little dubious about Martyn’s recent bold social media move, but it worked.  ” ”   At 11 a. m. BST, people across the country will be observing one   minute’s silence, to pay respect to those killed in the attack.   Some are already gathering in Manchester, in preparation: ” ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tThe media is gathering for a minute’s silence for the victims of the Manchester Arena terror attack, taking place in St Ann’s Sq at 11am.  ” ’    ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’Abedi had a   ’ ’  This story is developing . ..  ’ ’Police confirmed they are investigating a. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’