’  ’ ’   Robert O’’Neill, the former Navy SEAL who claimed to have fired   the shots that killed Osama bin Laden, called the reporter who   was ” ” by a Republican House candidate in Montana a   ”snowflake.” ’ ’   Speaking during an appearance on Fox News’’ ”The Specialists,”   O’’Neill, who is from Montana, also said the incident seemed ”kind   of funny based on my history.” ’ ’   The  ahead of a campaign event for   Republican candidate Greg Gianforte. Approached by Ben Jacobs of   The Guardian and pressed about the Congressional Budget Office   score for the American Health Care Act, Gianforte reportedly   grabbed Jacobs by the throat and slammed him to the ground,   breaking his glasses. Fox News reporters on scene said Gianforte   also punched Jacobs, who later tweeted that he was ”body slammed”   by Gianforte. ’ ’   Gianforte was subsequently charged with misdemeanor assault. ’ ’   ”All of a sudden, what happened there in Montana, apparently this   snowflake reporter invaded Gianforte’’s safe space,” O’’Neill said.   ”And we have a saying up there you know if you mess around, you   mess around and you might not be around.” ’ ”   O’Neill went into his own history dealing with the media, which   he said was intense after he claimed he fired the shots   that killed bin Laden. ” ’   ”These guys kind of   my father, they got him to say   some stuff,” he said. ”He didn’’t know the difference between on   the record and off the record.” ’ ’   He criticized ”ambush tactics” he said were deployed by those   reporters and Jacobs. ’ ’   ”Granted, I’’m not condoning the body slam,” he said. ”I think   it’’s kind of funny based on my history. But you know, you try to   mess with it sometimes, you’’ll get the bull’’s horns in Montana.” ’ ”   The special election for Montana’s lone House seat is Thursday.   Prior to the violent incident, the race between Gianforte and   Democratic candidate Rob Quist appeared to be tightening. The   candidates are vying to replace Ryan Zinke, whom President Donald   Trump selected to be Interior secretary. ” ’ ’ ”Robert O’Neill, the former Navy SEAL who. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’