’  ’ ’   President Donald Trump’s firing of FBI director James Comey   continues to reverberate in the KremlinGate scandal, which   threatens to consume the Trump administration. ’ ’   By abruptly removing Comey, then mangling his excuses for why he   did so, Trump created a needless crisis for the White House which   shows no signs of abating. ’ ’   The impartial observer might think that Trump fired Comey because   he feared what the FBI’s counterintelligence investigation of the   president’s contacts with Russia might reveal —  as the commander in   chief has . ’ ’   Moreover, Trump’s inappropriate efforts to secure Comey’s   personal “loyalty” had fallen flat —  the FBI director rightly   assured the president of his honesty but abjured any fealty to   Trump personally —  after which the president is  to   have developed a palpable fear of the incorruptible Bureau boss.   To protect Team Trump, Comey had to go. ’ ’   President Donald Trump’s firing of FBI director James Comey   continues to reverberate in the KremlinGate scandal, which   threatens to consume the Trump administration. By abruptly   removing Comey, then mangling his excuses for why he did so,   Trump created a needless crisis for the White House which shows   no signs of abating. ’ ’   The impartial observer might think that Trump fired Comey because   he feared what the FBI’s counterintelligence investigation of the   president’s contacts with Russia might reveal —  as the commander in   chief has . ’ ’   Moreover, Trump’s inappropriate efforts to secure Comey’s   personal “loyalty” had fallen flat —  the FBI director rightly   assured the president of his honesty but abjured any fealty to   Trump personally —  after which the president is  to   have developed a palpable fear of the incorruptible Bureau boss.   To protect Team Trump, Comey had to go. ’ ’  ’ ’   Last week, when he appeared before the Senate Armed Services   Committee, Coats declined to answer questions about the White   House’s effort to undermine the FBI investigation of Team Trump,    “I   don’t feel it’s appropriate to characterize discussions and   conversations with the president” in open session. Presumably DNI   Coats would be more forthcoming in a closed Congressional   session, where classified information can be revealed. ’ ’   Director Rogers, in contrast, has made no public statements about   the president’s effort to enlist him in his   campaign.   This is typical of his famously   agency —  for decades,   NSA was humorously said to stand for Never Say Anything —  and why   Trump approached Rogers is no mystery. ’ ’   As the nation’s signals intelligence force, NSA isn’t just the   biggest source of intelligence on earth —  it’s also the agency   possessing the bulk of the classified information which   establishes collusion between Trump and the Russians. Although    of   such SIGINT have reached the media, the lion’s share remains   hidden from public view, though it’s all known to the FBI. ’ ’   If Trump could   NSA in his fight with the Bureau, that   would be a big win, protecting the White House from dangerous   information, so it’s safe to assume that Rogers’ refusal burned   Trump personally. Perhaps that’s why, early this week, Admiral   Rogers took the unusual step of addressing the entire NSA   workforce to tell them what transpired with the president. ’ ’   This is not Rogers’ style. Indeed, his tenure as NSA’s director   (called DIRNSA by insiders) has been characterized by distance   from his employees, which has made things rockier than necessary.   To be fair to Rogers —  a career intelligence officer well equipped   for his current position —  when he became DIRNSA in the spring of   2014, he inherited an . NSA was still reeling from   the  the biggest   theft of classified information in espionage history. ’ ’   While Snowden has taunted NSA with tweets sent from his Russian   hideaway, more security disasters have followed. The  yet another   rogue defense contractor who stole gigantic amounts of classified   information from the agency, constituted another Snowdenesque   embarrassment, even though there’s no evidence that Martin was   engaged in espionage. ’ ’  ’ ’   Worse for Rogers was the theft of highly classified hacking tools   from NSA by the    which is widely believed to be a   front for Russian intelligence. ’ ’   The dumping of those   exploits online, after   modification by rogue hackers, has resulted in worldwide   cyberattacks impacting millions —  yet another black mark on Rogers’   tenure as DIRNSA. ’ ’   In response to these very public setbacks, Rogers has seldom   addressed the NSA workforce about them or much else. ’ ’   This week’s town hall event, which was broadcast to agency   facilities worldwide, was therefore met with surprise and   anticipation by the NSA workforce, and Rogers did not disappoint.   I have spoken with several NSA officials who witnessed the   director’s talk and I’m reporting their firsthand accounts, which   corroborate each other, on condition of anonymity. ’ ’   In his town hall talk, Rogers reportedly admitted that President   Trump asked him to discredit the FBI and James Comey, which the   admiral flatly refused to do. As Rogers explained, he informed   the commander in chief, “I know you won’t like it, but I have to   tell what I have seen” —  a probable reference to specific   intelligence establishing collusion between the Kremlin and Team   Trump. ’ ’   Rogers then added that such SIGINT exists, and it is damning. He   stated, “There is no question that we [meaning NSA] have evidence   of election involvement and questionable contacts with the   Russians. ” ’ ’   Although Rogers did not cite the specific intelligence he was   referring to, agency officials with direct knowledge have   informed me that DIRNSA was obviously referring to a series of   SIGINT reports from 2016 based on intercepts of communications   between known Russian intelligence officials and key members of   Trump’s campaign, in which they discussed methods of damaging   Hillary Clinton. ’ ’   NSA employees walked out of the town hall impressed by the   director’s forthright discussion of his interactions with the   Trump administration, particularly with how Rogers insisted that   he had no desire to “politicize” the situation beyond what the   president has already done. ’ ’   America’s spies are unaccustomed to playing partisan politics as   Trump has apparently asked them to do, and it appears that   the White House’s   effort to get NSA to attack the   FBI and its credibility was a serious mistake. ’ ’   It’s therefore high time for the House and Senate intelligence   committees to invite Admiral Rogers to talk to them about what   transpired with the White House. It’s evident that DIRNSA has   something important to say. Since Mike Rogers is said to have   kept notes of the president’s effort to enlist him in Trump’s   personal war with the FBI, as any seasoned Beltway bureaucrat   would do, his account ought to be impressively detailed. ’ ’President Donald Trump’s firing of FBI. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’