’  ’ ’   You may have heard on the internet last week that, according to   ”multiple sources close to the intelligence, justice, and law   enforcement communities,” the marshal of the Supreme Court had   commenced the sacred   rite —  you know, the   one you learned about in civics class, in which the marshal   marches to the White House in a cool costume and tells the   president that proceedings for his removal have begun. ’ ’   ”The notification was given, as part of the formal process of the   matter, in order that Mr. Trump knew he was not able to use his   powers of pardon against other suspects in   cases,”   . She added, ”Sources   have confirmed that the Marshal of the Supreme Court spoke to Mr.   Trump.” ’ ’   Earlier this month, Mensch and Claude Taylor had reported for   Patribotics that ”separate sources with links to the intelligence   and justice communities have stated that .” ’ ’   While the  of the U. S. Constitution forestalled Trump’’s immediate   prosecution, Orrin Hatch —  the federal government’’s ”designated   survivor” —   to ensure ”a smooth   transition of power.” ’ ’   Meanwhile, Paul Ryan . ’ ”   For those of us who haven’t yet found a great hiding spot behind    it’s impossible to know with   certainty what’s going on in the Trump administration. ” ”   Mensch’s blog and  larded as they are with double secret indictments,   SCOTUS marshals sounding the horn of impeachment, and Russian   spies in every desk drawer, invite all of us into the White House   through a side door, one that’s accessible only via the   11th dimension. Sources with links to the   intelligence, justice, and literary communities tell me that   Mensch’s overheated, conspiratorial prose is very easy to mock. ” ’   After her Supreme Court marshal ”scoop” started to crawl across   the web, pundits ridiculed it as the ”” and ” rooted in finely granular knowledge of how the U. S.   government does not operate.” ’ ’   But Louise Mensch shouldn’’t be dismissed as a crank with a     connection. In March, she penned a  for the New York Times titled ”What   to Ask About Russian Hacking.” Her reporting —  well, some of her   reporting —  has been confirmed by the Times and   Washington Post, and she gets  by celebrities, DNC staffers, and congresspeople. ’ ”   Last month, Keith Olbermann  to   a bombshell she’d dropped claiming Carter Page had ferried a tape   from Washington to Moscow —  a recording that allegedly featured   Trump reciting a series of promises to shift U. S. policy in a     manner in exchange for Russia’s helpful   interference in the 2016 election. ” ’   Mensch is the paranoid bard of the age of Trump. ’ ”   While more sober outlets reel from the president’s madness and   question whether the sky is blue, she deftly weaves plentiful,   narcotic tales about Russian infiltration. She has become a new   stock character in this shambolic White House opera: the liberal   conspiracy theorist, remaking a certain corner of progressive   discourse in the image of Breitbart News and Infowars. ” ”   She is a mirror for the left’s Hitchcockian fantasies and an   avatar of our political dysfunction, a symbol of how far off the   deep end one has to travel to reach a land beyond believability. ” ”   According to the Post,  into bungling the   FBI’s probe of Hillary Clinton’s private email server. If this is   the reality of 2017, then where is the fringe? It’s a place where    and where . ” ’   On Twitter, where Mensch boasts 283, 000 followers, her     musings flutter in a chamber of looniness alongside those of   compatriots John Schindler (a former NSA spy who  at the Naval War College after a   controversy involving a dick pic) and the aforementioned Claude   Taylor (a D. C.  —  based photographer with the username ). ’ ”   As Zack Beauchamp    in Vox, the members of this febrile amen circle spur and   amplify each other, sprinkling their fevered accusations with   terms of art from the world of espionage, among them   deza (short for dezinformatsiya, or   disinformation) and Chekist (the word for former KGB   officers who now enjoy political prominence in Putin’s Russia). ” ’   On Mensch’’s own feed, she chops up and remixes handles and   hashtags to score her delirious mood music: Romanian hackers,   @Yandex, #hostkey. @FBI, @GCHQ. Komprat? Agitprop. GLOMAR!   Combative and righteous, she refers to Republican senators like   Pat Toomey as ”douchebags.” She posted that she hopes Trump will   ”die in jail, at least stay there til the tertiary syphillis   really kicks in :).” ’ ’   As Beauchamp observes, the through line of these florid   conjectures is not so much a single conspiracy (à la birtherism)   as a vision of insidious and saturating Russian influence. On the   websites  and Patribotics, Mensch has suggested that Putin   had Andrew Breitbart killed so Steve Bannon could take up his   mantle, that a nightclub massacre in Istanbul was engineered by   Russians posing as ISIS terrorists, and that the Kremlin lurked   behind the Boston Marathon attacks. ’ ’   Her tapestry of GOP —  Moscow collusion evokes both the Cold War and   Mission Impossible. A   conservative,   Mensch  a ”pro —  national security partisan” and ”a patriot in   the service of the intelligence community.” If she despises the   Republican Party, it is because she thinks it is abetting a   hostile foreign power. Mensch’’s rightward tilt doesn’’t stop     readers from ingesting her hatred like a drug. The   technical language and the ”multiple sources” imply that a real   doctor prepared the dose. ’ ’  ’ ’   Mensch, who was born in London in 1971, has a talent for sexy   narratives. ’ ’   She first made her name in the   as a ”chick lit”   novelist, publishing steamy (yet ””!)   books with titles like Desire and Passion. In   2006, she was recruited to David Cameron’’s Conservative bloc as   part of an effort to strengthen the political presence of women   and minorities. ’ ’   The ””   ”” won election to parliament four years later,  soon after thanks to her ”sharp, precise, coolly   scornful” interrogation of global media magnates Rupert and James   Murdoch    their tabloid’’s   scandal. ’ ’   Mensch revealed her flair for the gotcha moment when she asked   the elder Murdoch why, when the News of the World’’s   misdeeds came to light, he didn’’t take the fall and resign. She   later invoked that moment of glory in the New York   Times,  might put to   witnesses testifying about the Russia scandal. ”I have some   relevant experience,” she noted. ’ ”   After leaving parliament and moving to the United States —  the   former president of Oxford’s rock society, she wed the manager of   Metallica and resettled with him in New York —  the British expat   launched a new career in online journalism. ” ’Heat Street, which she founded in April 2016, was    as ”Gawker for the right,” a   site that slung scoops about, for instance, . A   conspiracy theorist would note here that Heat Street was   financed by none other than Rupert Murdoch. (Hey, we’’re just   asking questions!) ’ ’   The reality is that the     former MP   always had the disposition of a U. K. —  style tabloid reporter. Her   profile rose in the U. S. when she melded that journalistic   approach with a     mission to smoke out   the traitors in our midst. ’ ’   Mensch, who told the Daily Beast’’s Lloyd Grove in May   2016 that she didn’’t ”fit neatly into the GOP,” predicted at that   stage that Ted Cruz would win the Republican nomination. ’ ’   ”My personal objection to Donald Trump,” she said in her   interview with Grove, ”is that he has said very racist things, is   lying to the voters, and is a fairly radical   Democrat.” ’ ”   Yet on Heat Street, Mensch offered up a series of   tepidly   posts, chiding Democrats for puzzling over the   TV star’s electoral win and praising several of his Cabinet   appointees. She saved her most vehement denunciations of the   president for Twitter while churning out furious critiques of   Putin on all possible platforms. ” ’   The night before Election Day, . ’ ’   ”Two separate sources with links to the     community have confirmed to Heat Street that the FBI   sought, and was granted, a FISA court warrant in October, giving     permission to examine the activities of   ‘U. S. persons’’ in Donald Trump’’s campaign with ties to Russia,”   she proclaimed under a headline blaring ”EXCLUSIVE.” The  and  corroborated her reporting months later, revealing   that the Justice Department had obtained permission to wiretap   Trump adviser Carter Page. ’ ’   Rather than push her toward Grey Lady —  approved     methods, Mensch’’s brush with legitimacy seemed to encourage her   to abandon the strictures of traditional journalism. She  in January to focus on Patribotics, a   new venture devoted to unraveling ”Vladimir Putin’’s war on   America.” ’ ”   While her articles grew more monomaniacal in theme and tone, they   also drew legitimacy from Mensch’s March piece in the   Times and her rising profile as a . Even as she bathed in the press’s fascination with   her own project, Mensch blasted the hidebound Fourth Estate for   its   and    the Times and NBC for stealing her work (via screenshots    in sensational red). ” ’   Meanwhile, as Vox’’s Beauchamp describes, political   elites like former Democratic National Committee chair Donna   Brazile and current DNC communications hand Adrienne Watson were   tweeting her ”exclusives.” Several Obama staffers, a   constitutional law professor at Harvard, and Olbermann also cited   Patribotics posts, clotted now more than ever with assurances   about ”sources close to the intelligence community.” ’ ’   A few weeks ago,  after propagating the Menschian   whisper that a New York grand jury was investigating Trump and   Russia. (Why, you might be wondering, would sources close to the   intelligence community leak to the likes of Louise Mensch rather   than a major newspaper? Because, as  ”people linked to intel are impressed   when patriot amateurs WORK and try to help. ”) ’ ’   That   between belief and dismissiveness hints at a   crossroads for liberals in the age of Trump. Unlike the fringy   right, which has long relied on sites like Infowars and   Breitbart to ratify its dreams and fears, the left lacks   a   infrastructure for spreading toxic and   intoxicating innuendo. ’ ’  ’ ”   But progressives are angry and scared. They do   seek out the pleasures of outrage and worldview confirmation. No   political moment since at least the Nixon presidency has provided   such fertile ground for conspiracy theories. Leaks spill   ceaselessly from the White House, the Justice Department, and the   FBI, a drip drip drip that’s as ceaseless as a ticking clock.   (Five o’clock or thereabouts has become the new political   witching hour, when all manner of inversions and mischief might   occur.) ” ”   Mensch’s scoops defy common sense and make a mockery of U. S.   institutions. But so does Trump. Even her most tenuously sourced,   outrageous tales feel like they’re on the cusp of tipping over   into truth. ” ”   Outside of her filter bubble, Mensch isn’t taken particularly   seriously. Yet to write her off entirely feels almost as naïve as   to buy her product. Whether or not she believes that Trump is a   pawn of Moscow, Mensch has discovered an unmanned stall in the   information marketplace and transformed it into a hub. ” ”   We can’t know the degree to which she’s fueled by ideological   commitment as opposed to savvy opportunism. We can, though,   ponder how a taste of mainstream approval and enthrallment might   have converted a libertarian into a   crusader, and how   our desire to make sense of this hallucinatory president may have   enlisted an entrepreneurial British woman in a peculiarly   American story. ” ’   Louise Mensch fashions wares we didn’’t know we needed and   delivers them to us through channels we didn’’t realize we had. We   say we want ”nothing but the truth.” Her cottage industry of   conspiracies thrives because, like the best sleuths and   salespeople, she sees right through us. ’ ’You may have heard on the internet last week. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’