’  ’ ”   The White House’s credibility crisis continues to deepen, and   experts say it may now reach one of the few remaining independent   voices in the Trump administration: national security adviser   H. R. McMaster. ” ”   After former national security adviser Michael Flynn was forced   to resign in February when it emerged that he misled Vice   President Mike Pence about contacts he’d had with Russian   officials during the 2016 campaign, McMaster arrived to right the   ship. ” ’   His selection was especially notable because  as the antithesis to Flynn. ’ ’   ”He was brought in as someone who was beyond reproach, who wasn’’t   in [President Donald] Trump’’s inner circle, had a stellar   reputation, and was supposed to be distanced from Trump,” said   Jon Michaels, a professor and expert on national security at UCLA   Law. ’ ’   Like Secretary of Defense James Mattis, McMaster was  while serving in the army and earned a great deal   of respect from soldiers. He is an expert on military strategy,   counterinsurgency, and history, and is not known for being a   ’’yes’’ man. ”Put simply: McMaster isn’’t a political guy, unlike   other officers who are trying to jockey for position and move up   their careers,” Business Insider’’s Paul Szoldra  after   Trump chose him. ’ ’   McMaster has historically ”been willing to risk an awful lot to   speak truth to power,” said Claire Finkelstein, a professor and   Director at the Center for Ethics and the Rule of Law at the   University of Pennsylvania Law School. ’ ”   But the former Army Lieutenant General has come under fire in   recent days, as the White House was hit with a flurry of news   stories that raised more questions about the Trump camp’s ties to   Russia. ” ”   Now, experts are beginning to question if McMaster’s role has   become dangerously politicized, and whether that could pose a   threat to the US’ national security. ” ’  ’ ’   When The Washington Post broke an  in   which intelligence officials alleged that Trump shared     information with Russian officials during an   Oval Office meeting, McMaster went in front of cameras to call   the story false as reported and to defend the president’’s actions   as ”wholly appropriate.” ’ ”   His defense came as intelligence officials expressed deep   concerns about Trump’s handling of sensitive information, as well   as the risks it posed to Israel, the source of the intel and a   key US ally. ” ’   Though the national security adviser is a political appointee  —     in that he is chosen by the president  —   the role has historically   been relatively apolitical when compared to that of other White   House staff. This is because the national security adviser has   ”enormous influence” over issues of war and peace, and presidents   of both parties have tried to keep political concerns away from   that area, according to Robert Deitz, a former top lawyer for the   National Security Agency and the CIA. ’ ’   Experts say there is some justification for McMaster speaking out   in this case, because he was brought out to address a national   security concern. ’ ’   ”The   controversy touches international politics in a   way that others do not. . .. If you’’re talking about whether   Russia influenced the US elections, if you’’re talking about the   US president meeting with Russian officials and giving them   classified information  —   that is hardcore foreign policy stuff,   and McMaster has, or at least had, very high credibility in that   area,” Deitz said. ”So it seems logical that he would be pushed   out to lead that parade.” ’ ’   But choosing him as a spokesperson may have done more harm than   good. ’ ’   In this case, McMaster’’s ”going before the press didn’’t do   anything to limit” fallout from revelations that Trump disclosed     information to the Russians, Michaels said. ’ ’   ”At the end of the day, are we now all saying, ’’Oh, OK,   everything’’s all   because McMaster stood up there’’? Did   it assuage concerns our allies may have had about sharing   intelligence? Probably not.” ’ ”   Deitz concluded that Trump doesn’t have many alternatives to   McMaster. ” ’   ”If you look at people in this White House and compare them to   people in the Obama or Bush White House,” he said, ”there are not   that many people who have terribly high credibility.” ’ ’   Michaels echoed that assessment and highlighted the unique   circumstances the Trump administration faces. ’ ’   ”Almost everything right now feels new and different,” he said.   ”The fact that McMaster has to go out and talk about what the   president may or may not have said about [Comey . .. all of this stuff feels weird and   unusual, and I doubt many national security advisers have been   called in to do this particular type of rebuttal or   contextualization.” ’ ’  ’ ’   ”There are only so many people in the White House who are taken   credibly at this point, and McMaster is one of them,” he added.   ”So it’’s a trade off.” ’ ”   If anything, experts say McMaster’s selection as the White   House’s point man following the Post’s report likely diminished   his credibility and the credibility of the US in the process, and   it also appeared to politicize a national security issue. ” ”   Glenn Carle, a former CIA operative and national security expert,   compared McMaster’s selection to former President Bill Clinton’s   decision to have female Cabinet members speak out on his behalf   during the Monica Lewinsky scandal. ” ’   ”A lot of the women involved resented that and thought it was   inappropriate, and Clinton was widely criticized for politicizing   them because they were females,” Carle said. ”Here, McMaster was   politicized because he’’s a general.” ’ ’   And while the credibility of White House operatives like   Kellyanne Conway and press secretary Sean Spicer has taken a hit   since Trump assumed office, the risks of McMaster losing   credibility are significantly greater given his position as the   chief national security consultant. ’ ”   Experts say that McMaster is likely aware of the delicate   situation he’s in. ” ’   McMaster’’s loyalties are ”naturally divided,” Finkelstein said.   ”He probably feels like he owes the president, as      the greatest loyalty he can summon up under   the circumstances. But I’’m also guessing that standing in that   room with the Russian foreign minister and ambassador, he felt   that he himself was in a fairly compromised position.” ’ ’  ’ ’   There have been other instances where that internal discrepancy   may have been evident. Shortly after news broke that Trump had   reportedly called Comey a ”real nut job,” and said firing him had   taken ”great pressure” off during the Oval Office meeting with   Russian officials, McMaster  on May 21. The White House has not disputed the   report. ’ ’   When host George Stephanopoulos asked McMaster about why Trump   made comments about the FBI’’s Russia probe to Kremlin officials,   McMaster said Trump ”feels as if he is hamstrung in his ability   to work with Russia” because of media coverage around the topic. ’ ’   ”It’’s very difficult to take a few lines, to take a paragraph out   of what appear to be notes of that meeting, and to be able to see   the full context of the conversation,” he added. ’ ’   That interview was ”not McMaster’’s finest moment,” Finkelstein   said, adding that it likely reflected his need ”to act within the   military chain of command, while also being aware that these   actions and remarks by the president are extremely dangerous for   the country.” ’ ’   McMaster is still the most independent voice in the White House,   experts say, but if he continues ceding ground to the political   wing, it may affect the relationship between the administration   and the military. ’ ’   ”The   on military matters are the joint chiefs and the   national security adviser,” Michaels said. ”If the national   security adviser is seen as a stooge or lackey of an   administration that the military may be wary of, it’’s going to   diminish [McMaster’’s] capacity to be seen as a reliable person to   call in the White House for critical issues.” ’ ’   And that logic applies to foreign affairs, too. ’ ’   ”It’’s not surprising when a politician or statesman presents a   favorable interpretation of an issue for the administration,”   Carle said. But when the national security adviser goes in front   of cameras and says something that is ”just not true, that harms   the US’’ ability to interact successfully and win the support of   our foreign interlocutors.” ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Truly, your word is very important” when dealing with national   security, Carle said, adding that credibility is among the chief   concerns allies consider when deciding which and how much   intelligence to share with another country. ’ ”   The US’ national security apparatus relies not just on heads of   state calling each other, Michaels said, but on networks of     bureaucrats like McMaster whose credibility is   crucial to keeping things running. ” ’   ”There’’s no more critical moment for that than now,” he said,   ”given the lack of credibility and expertise of the     .” ’ ’   And in the event that the US is thrust into a genuine national   security crisis and McMaster comes out to talk to the public or   to the US’’ allies about it, Deitz said, ”the question people are   going to have in the back of their minds is, ’’Are we getting this   straight or is this just a political job? ’’” ’ ’   McMaster is still a very respected figure, Finkelstein said. ’ ’   ”But he will lose all efficacy as a protector of national   security if he simultaneously loses that independent voice he was   known to have.” ’ ”The White House’s credibility crisis continues. ..” ’Your Editor (online now)’ ’’ ’’ ’’