’  ’ ”   When K. T. McFarland first heard the 2005 tape of Donald Trump   boasting about grabbing women’s genitals, she talked to her two   daughters. ” ’   ”If anybody ever says stuff like that to you, walk away,” she   told them. ’ ”   But just six weeks later, McFarland got a call from Trump, then   the   with an offer she couldn’t refuse. ” ”   A veteran of the Nixon, Ford, and Reagan administrations and a   longtime Fox News contributor, McFarland was elated at the chance   to serve as the president’s deputy national security adviser  —   a   top White House position. ” ’   To McFarland, the opportunity Trump gave her is proof that he   trusts and respects women, regardless of what he’’s said in   the past in an ”inadvertent, locker room kind of way.” ’ ’   ”If you want to honor women, give them an opportunity in the   workplace,” she told Business Insider.  ’ ”   But McFarland is on her way out  —   she’s expected to take an   ambassadorship to Singapore and will be replaced by an Army   general  —   shrinking the already small group of women with Oval   Office privileges. ” ’   Once McFarland officially leaves the White House, just five of   the 28  will be women. ’ ”   The lack of diversity among those in top positions under Trump   extends outside of the West Wing: Just six of the   administration’s  are either women or people of color  —     and none of them occupy top seats. ” ”   The discrepancy marks a break in a bipartisan trend toward   greater diversity among White House staff and presidential   cabinets. Over half of  almost half of George W.   Bush’s, and almost   of Barack Obama’s were made up of   women and   men. ” ’   While Hillary Clinton pledged to fill half of her Cabinet with   women, Trump subscribes to a strain of conservative thinking that   regards targeted recruitment as ”philosophically opposed to   choosing the best person for the job,” Kelly Dittmar, a professor   at Rutgers University’’s Center for American Women and Politics,   told Business Insider. ’ ’   The White House said it looks to hire whoever is ”most qualified”   to hold any given position. ’ ’   ”When you look at this White House, it’’s not about male versus   female, it’’s about who is   and most qualified to hold   that position,” White House deputy press secretary Lindsay   Walters told Business Insider. ’ ’   ”That is a sort of code for saying, ’’We don’’t do targeted   hiring,’’” Dittmar said. ’ ’  ’ ”   McFarland believes the president didn’t consider gender when he   offered her the national security post. ” ’   ”I don’’t think he cares two hoots whether I was male or female,”   she said. ”He just thought I could get the job done.” ’ ’   But while Walters said she thinks it’’s important to have both   male and female ”perspectives” in the West Wing, gender parity   isn’’t necessary. ’ ’   ”I think it would be a problem if there were no women,” Walters   said. ”If there were no female representation within senior   staff, I think that would be a problem.” ’ ’   Dittmar argued that while the number of women in the White House   is ”symbolically important” because it indicates ”what sort of   message the White House wants to send to the country about their   valuation of that diversity,” it’’s secondary to whether women   have influence in  . ’ ’   ”What’’s most important is: who’’s at the table and who’’s in the   room when the most serious and significant decisions are being   made,” Dittmar said. ”Who are the strategic people, who’’s   involved in the president’’s  ? Are [women] in that   cadre?” ’ ”   Kellyanne Conway, Trump’s counselor and former campaign manager,   agrees with that way of thinking. ” ’   ”Attaching a hard and fast number to it is not as relevant as the   contributions that are made by the women who are at the table,”   Conway told Business Insider. ’ ’   But the discrepancy in the numbers has been enough to   provoke occasional outcry, such as after the administration   published photos of Trump signing executive orders and   negotiating healthcare legislation with groups of exclusively   male aides and the   House Freedom Caucus. ’ ’   Conway said that response illustrates a frustrating preoccupation   with optics, and noted that she was in the room when some of   the photos were taken. ’ ’   ”It’’s like, well, I was sitting next to the cameraman, so I was   right there, but I’’m not in the shot,” Conway said. ”But that   doesn’’t mean that those men haven’’t heard from the females. . ..   We’’re heard and we’’re seen and we’’re listened to and we are   sought out and sought after for our opinions and our judgment and   our ideas and our insight.” ’ ’  ’ ”   Gender imbalance is not unique to the Trump White House  —   the   issue is pervasive throughout the Republican Party and in   Democratic politics, too. Just five of the GOP’s 52 senators are   women, and about 10% of its Congress members are women. (There   are twice as many Democratic women in the Senate, and about three   times as many in the House.) ” ’   Sue Zoldak, a political consultant who volunteers for the   RightNOW Women PAC, which supports Republican women running for   office, says she and many other conservative women are working   hard to promote women within the party. ’ ’   ”We’’re not the minority that people like to think of us as,”   Zoldak told Business Insider. ”Women Republicans do exist.” ’ ’   But Mary Frances Berry, a professor at the University of   Pennsylvania and former chairwoman of the US Commission on Civil   Rights, told Business Insider that gender equity isn’’t ”a   priority” for the women who voted for Trump, and to the extent   that the GOP is putting pressure on the White House to diversify,   the administration isn’’t responding. ’ ’   ”Those of us who look at his administration and care about women   and the roles in which they’’re permitted to function and the   opportunities that they get think it’’s a problem,” Berry said.   ”But I don’’t think the Trump administration thinks it’’s a   problem.” ’ ”   Trump’s inner circle of White House aides includes five women:   Conway; Ivanka Trump, the president’s eldest daughter who   recently took on an official advisory role; Hope Hicks, the      White House director of strategic communications;   Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the principal deputy press secretary and   daughter of former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee; and Dina Powell,   a deputy national security adviser and senior counselor on   economic initiatives. ” ”   While Ivanka and Powell act largely as policy advisers, Conway,   Hicks, and Sanders focus on communications and public messaging.   Conway is working on a  including the opioid crisis and veterans   issues, but it’s unclear how much influence she wields in those   areas, given that Jared Kushner, the president’s adviser and      counts veterans affairs among  and  of the opioid effort to New Jersey   Gov. Chris Christie. ” ”   When it comes to Trump’s public image, women feature prominently   as defenders and media liaisons, while top male advisers,   including Kushner, chief strategist Steve Bannon, and Chief of   Staff Reince Priebus, rarely engage with the press or speak   publicly.  ” ’   Women also hold other prominent communications roles.   Omarosa Manigault, a former ”Apprentice” star who directed     outreach for Trump’’s campaign, directs   communications for the Office of Public Liaison, and Helen   Aguirre Ferré, a Latina journalist and former Trump critic, heads   the media affairs office. ’ ’  ’ ”   Conway, widely seen as the most influential woman in the White   House other than Ivanka, has remained one of the president’s   principal surrogates and advisers on communications and     strategic messaging. ” ’ ”” the press secretary and communications   director roles. ’ ’ that, after Conway turned down   the press secretary job, Trump wanted another woman to be   responsible for briefing the press. He  conservative media personalities Laura Ingraham   and Kimberly Guilfoyle, but ultimately decided on Spicer, the   former spokesman for the Republican National Committee and a   Washington insider. ’ ’   The gender balance on the White House communications team   reflects a broader trend: Women make up 59% of corporate and     public relations specialists and 71% of PR managers,   according to the . (Women are 47% of the overall American   workforce). ’ ’   The most  for this phenomenon are that women are   better at listening and building interpersonal relationships than   men. ’ ’   ”Women are slightly better listeners and that sounds like the   opposite of your role as a communications person, but in order to   effectively counsel someone on communication you have to really   understand that person,” Zoldak said. ”I think women are more   open to having a more intimate and emotional connection with   someone at work than men are.” ’ ’   Conway attributes her ability to communicate effectively with the   president, in part, to her gender. ’ ’   ”I could tell you a great way that my gender has helped me with   the president,” she told Business Insider. ”I’’m actually unafraid   to express my mind, but I do it very respectfully. Very   respectfully and very deferentially.” ’ ’   Conway  at the Women Rule Summit in Washington that   she’’s able to deliver bad news ”with a big smile,” but without   ”sugarcoating.” (It was Conway who broke the news to Trump about   the release of the Access Hollywood video in October.) ’ ’   ”I think there’’s a femininity that is attached to the way one   carries herself or the way one executes on her duties,”   she told Business Insider. ’ ’   In  of Hicks, one of Trump’’s     political aides whom Politico has  the president’’s ”gatekeeper and security   blanket,” Trump described Hicks’’ interactions with him in   similar terms.  ’ ’   ”She will often give advice, and she’ll do it in a very     manner, so it doesn’t necessarily come in the form of advice,”   Trump said. ”But it’s delivered very nicely. ” ’ ’   Both Hicks and Conway, despite their closeness to Trump, have   always addressed the president as ”Mr. Trump,” ”Mr.   President,” or ”Sir.”   ’ ’   ”I don’’t consider him my peer, he is my boss and he is my elder   . .. so I don’’t address him by his first name,” Conway said. ”That   has actually allowed me, in my view, to respectfully but   forcefully express my opinion on certain matters.” ’ ’  ’ ’   No one has been a fiercer defender of Trump’’s treatment of women    —   even amid numerous allegations of  during the final month of the 2016   campaign  —   than Conway. Conway has called women who   claim Trump mistreated them ”false accusers,” and   she pivots to his history of working with and   promoting women to the highest levels of his company.   ’ ’  ’ ’   ”I’’m 50 years old, so I grew up in a time when, I think, men   were much more bold and aggressive and thought they could get   away with a lot more in the workplace, in     situations  —   out to dinner or traveling for work,” Conway said.   But she is quick to add she doesn’’t harbor ””   and considers herself ”blessed” to work in an environment   and for a president who supports her.  ’ ’   ’ ’   Ivanka, a   advocate for women’’s empowerment   who’’s leading the White House’’s policy efforts to promote women   in business and other realms, has shied away from the feminist   label. In her  ”Women Who Work”  —   a ”Lean In”  advice manual    —   there’’s no mention of the word ”feminism” and no discussion of   sexual harassment in the workplace.  ’ ’   At the same time, Conway, and other women close to Trump, are   quick to accuse political opponents and journalists of   mistreatment of women. Recently, the White House has   become increasingly outspoken about what they see as sexism   directed toward their spokeswomen. ’ ’   ”Go and take a look at the way I’’m treated and tell me it’’s not   sexist, tell me it’’s not based on my gender,” Conway said,   referring to her media coverage. ”When’’s the last time you saw a   great story about the beer bellies and the bad   in   Congress versus what was I wearing or what was a female saying or   doing?”  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Jessica Ditto, White House deputy communications director, echoed   this criticism, telling Business Insider that ”the only time”   she’’s experienced sexism as a political aide was in her   treatment by the media. ’ ’   ”Twice Politico reporters have described me as ’’junior,’’ which is   a false characterization for a commissioned Deputy Assistant to   the President and White House Deputy Communications Director,”   Ditto wrote in an email following a conversation with Business   Insider.   ’ ’   She added, ”That kind of treatment is deeply insulting and   disappointing.” ’ ’   Earlier this month, Mike Huckabee  Saturday Night Live’’s satire of his daughter,   Sarah Huckabee Sanders, ”sexist” and ”misogynist.” ’ ’   While the gendered criticism Conway, in particular, has faced  —     from  SNL, and even   —   has prompted people from across   the political spectrum, including  to speak out in her defense, Conway has   also admitted that she enjoys turning accusations of sexism back   on liberals. ’ ’   Defending her allegation that former Democratic presidential   nominee Hillary Clinton’’s running mate, Tim Kaine, displayed   sexism by repeatedly interrupting a female debate moderator,   Conway  in November, ”I love using that word.” ’ ’   ”It’’s the word that the left and the Democrats and Hillary   Clinton folks love to employ against everyone who doesn’’t support   her,” she added. ”If you don’’t support Hillary Clinton, you’’re a   sexist.” ’ ”   While Conway condemned what she views as sexist media   coverage of Clinton during the 2008 presidential primary  —     she mentioned articles concerning Clinton’s  and   displays of emotion  —   she denies that misogyny played   any role in the Clinton’s 2016 defeat. ” ’   ”Of course sexism exists,” Conway said, ”but it usually doesn’’t   exist for a woman who was the former first lady of the United   States of America, has a Yale law degree, and was the secretary   of state and United States senator.” ’ ’When K. T. McFarland first heard the 2005 tape. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’