’  ’ ’   Standing before a room of women in Los Angeles, Lulu Hunt Peters   wrote a word on a blackboard that she said held the keys to   empowerment. It was a word most of her audience had never heard   before. Peters insisted it was just as important as terms like   ”foot” and ”yard,” and that if they came to understand and use   it, they would be serving their country and themselves. ’ ’   The word was ”calorie.” It was 1917, and although the calorie had   been used in chemistry circles for decades  —   and is often   credited to scientists such as Wilbur Olin Atwater and Nicolas   Clément  —   it was Peters who was responsible for popularizing the   idea that all we need to become healthier is knowing how much   energy is in our food and fervently cutting back the excess. But   her teachings weren’t all academic. She also referred to   overweight people as ”fireless cookers” and accused them of   hoarding the valuable wartime commodity of fat ”in their own   anatomy.” Nevertheless, Peters’’   program has become so   popular that some experts worry it now eclipses more important   aspects of nutrition. ’ ”   Yet while Peters’ concept of calories has managed to stick around   for 100 years, few have heard her name. As one of a handful of   female physicians in California at the turn of the 20th century,   Peters occupied a tenuous role as a health authority. After   initially opening up her own private practice, she struggled to   feel satisfied with her career. It was only after America entered   the first World War that Peters had the opportunity to find her   voice  —   first as a leader of a local women’s club and finally as   America’s most enduring diet guru. ” ”   Lulu Peters was the picture of 1920s fashion. She wore her dark   hair in the flapper style, bobbed and adorned with glittering   headbands, and . Her ears were decorated with gleaming   pearls. She wasn’t rail thin, as the social mores of     white America said she ought to be, but she was 70 pounds leaner   than she had been when she’d graduated from medical school  —   a   point she emphasized with pride in a pamphlet she sold for 25   cents and later turned into . ” ’  ’ ’   When it came to the science of nutrition and weight loss, Peters   was in many ways decades ahead of her time. While ads in local   newspapers pushed women to try everything from smoking (””) to wearing  to lose weight, Peters was breaking down complex   scientific concepts like metabolism into accessible ideas that   could be used to slim down. ’ ’   In 1910, when the average life expectancy was  most Americans had never heard of things like   calories, proteins, or carbohydrates. Even the  characterized by   a great deal of pseudoscience. Through her newspaper columns and   clubhouse talks, Peters introduced hundreds of people to these   ideas, and even began to link unhealthy eating with specific   diseases. She went so far as to recommend intermittent fasting   for those struggling to lose weight, a topic that is only now   beginning to emerge in the scientific literature. ’ ’  ’ ’   Still, it is what Peters taught her followers about calories that   has endured the longest, that all you need to do to lose weight   is consume fewer than you burn. ’ ’   ”Instead of saying one slice of bread, or a piece of pie, you   will say 100 Calories of bread, 350 Calories of pie,” she wrote   in 1918. ”Hereafter, you are going to eat calories of food.” ’ ’   In 1909, Peters was one of  across the country to graduate as a   doctor of medicine. War and its demand for medical workers had   helped temporarily ease some of the barriers blocking women from   entering universities, and in 1910 the percentage of women   physicians was . Shortly after receiving her degree   from the University of California, Peters got a job .   Several years later, even as the percentage of women medical   school graduates  she secured a role as the chair of the     committee for the California women’’s club   federation of Los Angeles, a position that a  as having ”more power than the entire city health   office.” ’ ”   Still, she occupied a tenuous position in a society led by men.   Even as a leading physician with two medical degrees, most of   Peters’ roles were unpaid, including a   stint with the   American Red Cross in 1918 during World War I. Many of the     events she attended were derided in local   newspapers as nothing more than  And these roles, which were   already constrained by gender, were made even more exclusive by   the fact that they were  . Women who didn’t have   access to money  —   many of them women of color  —   were simply   barred from participating. Those who did attend made a show of   their wealth. With her   flapper fashion, Peters was   no exception. ” ’   Whatever signs of excess she displayed when it came to clothing,   however, Peters made up for in her approach to eating. ’ ’   After having struggled with her weight for years early in her   career, Peters lost 70 pounds by carefully restricting the amount   of food she ate. Her diet was a seemingly logical extension of   basic chemistry: If you want to ”reduce,” you need to put less   energy into your body than it uses up. To do that, a unit of   measure she’’d applied frequently as a  at several Los Angeles hospitals, was key. She and   her peers had relied upon calculating the caloric content of baby   formula to ensure premature babies and other infants under their   care were properly nourished. Now, the measure seemed an easy way   to calculate the energy needs of adults. ’ ’   As a leading member of the women’’s club federation, Peters became   a diet guru, frequently sharing bits of her dieting wisdom with   her fellow members. One day, shortly before leaving for her World   War I service with the Red Cross, she delivered a talk about   weight loss. In order for her audience to understand how she lost   weight, she had to introduce them to the unit of measure at the   foundation of her plan. The calorie, she explained, was a measure   of what she called ”food values.” ’ ’   ”You should know and also use the word calorie as frequently, or   more frequently, than you use the words foot, yard, quart,   gallon, and so forth, as measures of length and liquids,” Peters   said. ’ ’  ’ ”   Losing weight wasn’t merely about meeting societal expectations,   though, at least in the way Peters chose to present it. Being   severely overweight was also linked with chronic illnesses such   as heart and kidney disease, she wrote. At the time, it was an   idea that was  among scientists. More important,   Peters offered calorie counting as a moral, patriotic duty.   Hungry troops at the front lines, Peters explained, needed the   calories that women like her could do without. What was fat, she   said, if not a   resource that should be distributed to   the soldiers abroad? ” ’   ”In war time it is a crime to hoard food, and fines and   imprisonment have followed the exposé of such practices,” Peters   wrote. ”Yet there are hundreds of thousands of individuals all   over America who are hoarding food, and that one of the most   precious of all foods! They have vast amounts of this valuable   commodity stored away in their own anatomy.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Peters even went so far as to describe the discomfort of dieting   as a physical reminder of their American loyalty and an easier   way to deal with rationing. If the food they didn’’t eat didn’’t go   directly to the troops abroad, their leftovers could be used to   feed their children: ”That for every pang of hunger we feel we   can have a double joy, that of knowing we are saving worse pangs   in . .. little children, and that of knowing that for every pang   we feel we lose a pound.” ’ ’   It may have sounded like a noble goal at first, but Peters had   taken the idea of calorie counting too far. ’ ’   In a world dominated by celebrity fad diets that range from the   absurd, like Reese Witherspoon’’s alleged ”  diet,” to the   absurdly unaffordable, such as Gwyneth Paltrow’’s $200 ””  breakfast smoothie, calories can seem like the   most scientific option for improving your health. But there is   more guesswork involved in calorie calculations than you might   think. ’ ’   The current system of calorie counting on which our nutrition   labels are based ”provides only an estimate of the energy content   of foods,”  a professor of nutrition at Cornell University, said   at a  of the international nonprofit Institute for   Food Technologists. ’ ”   Traditionally, scientists calculated the energy content of foods   using a large piece of machinery called a bomb calorimeter. The   process involved placing a sample of food into the device,   burning it, and measuring how much the water in a surrounding   container heated up. Since a Calorie raises the temperature of a   liter of water by 1 degree Celsius, the  by calculating the change in the   water’s temperature multiplied by the water’s volume. Today, we   use a shortcut called the Atwater system, named after   agricultural chemist Wilbur Olin Atwater. ” ’  ’ ’   Atwater  —   who actually wanted to use his work in the 1890s to   help   —     determined the average number of calories in four main energy   sources: carbs, fats, protein, and alcohol. Fats, he found, were   the most   being worth about 9 calories per gram,   while proteins and carbs were roughly equal at about 4 calories   per gram. Alcohol was worth about 7 calories per gram. ’ ”   The Atwater system is  by the US Department of Agriculture since 1988.   Before that, they were done by hand. Using this method, you’d be   able to determine that a slice of wheat bread with 3 grams of   protein, 9 grams of carbs, and 1 gram of fat had roughly 60   calories. ” ”   Here’s the problem: Not all of us process all foods the same way. ” ’   ”It’’s definitely not just ’’calories in and calories out’’ because   two people could be [burning] more and consuming less and one   person gains and one doesn’’t,” says Cara Anselmo, a nutritionist   and outpatient dietitian at New York’’s Memorial     Cancer Center. ”There are metabolic differences person to   person.” ’ ’   These variations mean that each of us needs a different amount of   energy from our food, and it can vary substantially by the day.   One issue that the Atwater system will never account for, Anselmo   says, is the delicate balance of hormones that guide everything   from appetite to digestion. These hormones can be influenced a   great deal by our previous history of weight loss or weight gain. ’ ’   ”We find that with people who lose a significant amount of   weight, hormones play an important role too. So someone who’’s   always been at 150 pounds can actually get away with eating more   calories than someone who was at 250 pounds and lost 100 pounds.   Your body is producing fewer of the hormones that make you feel   full and more of the hormones that make you hungry,” Anselmo   says. ’ ’   This means that Peters, who lost a substantial amount of weight   before writing her   diet book, might have had to   limit her diet more than someone who had always weighed what she   did. ’ ’   Other factors that scientists are just beginning to understand   also  from food. ’ ’   In a  published in the Journal of Nutrition, Purdue   University scientists found that whole tree nuts and peanuts have   roughly 15% fewer calories than the figure calculated using the   Atwater method. Although nuts are high in fat, the researchers   found, a significant portion of those oils end up being secreted   when we eat them. Another study published in the British Journal   of Nutrition in 2012 came to a similar conclusion about   pistachios, finding that they had about  than originally assumed. ’ ”   Let’s say that at lunchtime you’re given two options with the   exact same number of calories. You can either have a ham   sandwich, potato chips, and a can of soda or a salad and a     roll. Which would you choose? ” ’   You might be tempted to pick the sandwich and soda. After all, if   they stack up the same in terms of calories, you might as well   pick the one you can taste, right? ’ ”   According to Peters and the many popular modern diets she   influenced, the answer is yes. But it’s not that simple. While   counting calories can be a useful tool in a bigger toolkit for   weight loss, it is not a perfect solution for healthy eating,   especially when it’s used in isolation. ” ’   Nichola Whitehead, a registered dietitian with a private practice   in the UK, summarizes the problem this way: ”While calories are   important when it comes to losing, maintaining, or gaining   weight, they are not the sole thing we should be focusing on when   it comes to improving our health.” ’ ’   Take the following two daily meal plans, for example, both of   which are about 2, 000 calories: ’ ’  ’ ’   While they tally up to the same number of calories, the two plans   are far from equal. ’ ’   ”Both of these would give you the same number of calories, but   only one of them will leave you feeling satiated and satisfied   and give you the energy you need,” says Whitehead. ’ ’   That’’s because the meal on the right doesn’’t provide what   Whitehead calls ”balance”  —   essentially the right mix of   proteins, complex carbohydrates, and fruits and vegetables that   your body needs  in the long term. From the frosted   cereal at breakfast to the   sandwich at lunch to the   refined pasta at dinner, the meal plan on the right is based   around refined carbohydrates, which the body breaks down quickly.   That means they’’ll give you a short burst of energy and make you   feel full for a few hours, but probably leave you hungry before   your next meal. ’ ’   ”Empty calories only give a temporary fix,” Whitehead says. ’ ’  ’ ”   To keep energy levels up and keep you full and healthy for the   long term, your diet needs to feed more than your stomach. It has   to satiate your muscles, which crave protein, your digestive   system, which runs at its best with fiber, and your tissues and   bones, which work optimally when they’re getting vitamins from   food. ” ”   It wasn’t until 1990 that calories made an appearance on the food   we buy, and they weren’t  until four years later. ” ’   Before that, there was simply no way to know for sure what was in   the food you bought. Several years after Peters gave her calorie   talk,  as one of the first processed convenience foods.   When World War II broke out, the      food was a   hit among soldiers, and for the next 20 years, conflict, rather   than craving, shaped the American palate. ”In the universe of   processed food,” Anastacia Marx de Salcedo writes in  ”World War II was the Big Bang.” The   1960s saw the invention of two more   milestones:   The  and . ’ ”   Perhaps in response to these unhealthy eating trends, severe diet   fads emerged for each decade from Peters’ day to the present. In   the 1930s, about a decade after Polish biochemist Casimir Funk   first recommended people get enough of  (later found in abundance   in citrus fruits and veggies) the first grapefruit diet emerged,   followed by a     diet promoted by United Fruit,   the planet’s leading banana importer. Several decades later,      surged in popularity, and in the 1970s, women were encouraged to    whenever they felt hungry. ” ’   Throughout history, most of these diets were heavily marketed to   women, something that’’s still true today. Nevertheless, in   Peters’’ day, she claimed to see weight loss as a tool that she   and other women could use to liberate themselves, or, in her   words, to become more ”efficient.” ’ ’   Today, neither the mantra of ”calorie is king” nor the allure of   fad diets appears to have won out in the global battle for our   waistlines. In a hint that calories are here to stay, President   Obama in 2010 introduced a piece of legislation requiring every   large American restaurant chain to  on their menus. Just last summer, singer    otherwise known as eating   only raw mushrooms for one meal a day for two weeks, helped her   lose fat in select areas of her body. Nevertheless, there is a   move toward eating a more   diet based on vegetables,   whole grains, lean proteins, and healthy fats. It’’s a trend that   dietitians and   experts say they’’re encouraged by. ’ ’  ’ ’   Several recent studies suggest that whether you’’re looking for   weight loss or to improve your health, the  whole grains, and lean proteins.   These diets generally also include a variety of . In its most report on the best eating plans, US News and   World Report  as ”good for the   environment, your heart, your weight, and your overall health.” ’ ”   This means that while we can certainly use calories as a tool to   guide our eating choices, we shouldn’t live like Lulu Peters,   focusing solely on one number. ” ’   ”Calories should be a tool for information, rather than a way to   live your life,” says Whitehead. ’ ’A   Los Angeles physician named Lulu. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’