’  ’ ’   Even before he started covering the civil war in Syria, Issam   Khoury was under constant threat for what he wrote. ’ ’   After growing up in the western Syrian city of Latakia, the   future journalist started writing about human rights violations   as he witnessed them unfold. ’ ”   Between 2001 and 2002, Khoury published two novels about civil   life in Syria without permission from the government, which   required all of the country’s print materials to be  . ” ”   This placed Khoury under the constant watch of President Bashar    ’s government, whose forces would regularly call Khoury   in for police questioning over the next 10 years. During that   time, he felt the country’s tightening grip on democratic   processes, and started a  where he   published reports of what he saw. ” ’   ”I tried to analyze the information, and send a message of what   happened in my country,” Khoury said. ”You should be honest with   your work.” ’ ”   By 2011, thousands of Syrians  after Assad’s government   tortured teenagers who wrote revolutionary graffiti on their   school wall. ” ’  ’ ”   While watching protests occur in Latakia, Khoury continued to   post daily reports of government forces responding with force to   people peacefully gathering. As Khoury’s site grew in both   prestige and readership, other journalists and civilians who   filmed the events with their phones started sending Khoury   material to post online. By that time, western media outlets   began to republish some of his work. ” ”   As a Syrian Christian, Khoury was also pushing back against   Assad’s insistence that he was helping protect the country’s   religious minorities. Khoury said he has been unable to separate   his   activism from his journalistic work. He sees his   role as standing up for those the government tries to repress. ” ’   After several months of reporting from the protests in Latakia, a   group of agents stopped Khoury and a group of other reporters   while they were driving in a car. The agents cornered Khoury and   beat him up. He was hospitalized and had to get several surgeries   to fix broken ribs. ’ ”   As Syria launched into a   civil war and the situation   continued to deteriorate, Khoury left his home for Lebanon and   continued publishing   articles there. The Lebanese   government shielded Khoury for more than a year, but eventually   seized his passport because, Khoury believes, they didn’t want to   anger Assad’s regime. ” ’  ’ ’   By that time, Khoury could not stay in either Syria and Lebanon   and, after retrieving his passport from some people he knew in   the government, sought asylum in New York. ’ ’   Once there, he spent a year as a journalist in residence at the   CUNY Graduate School of Journalism, and continued to publish   material about the situation in Syria sent to him from   journalists still on the ground. During his three years in the   US, Khoury would try to send these reports to American newspapers   but felt that most were either uninterested or wanted to publish   the stories for free  —   something he refuses to do. ’ ’   ”They should give money to those people,” said Khoury, adding   that journalists still in Syria face daily dangers, both from   Assad’’s government and Islamic terrorist groups who  by taking over certain swatches of   Syria. ’ ’  ’ ”   But even amid the hopelessness of the war and the fighting’s   irreparable damage to Syrian society, Khoury continues to reach   out to journalists in his home country. He later started a   nonprofit organization to train young journalists throughout the   Middle East. ” ”   Khoury feels that, even among the most brutal regimes and tight   control of communication, people’s desire to come together and   share information will always come through. ” ’   ”If you try to speak with anyone by phone, [Assad] can touch this   person and torture him and his family,” he said. ”[But there are]   programs like Viber and WhatsApp.” ’ ”   Since Khoury left, the war has continued to ravage Syria. Just   last month, Assad’s government  that killed more than 70 people.   The United States  of 59 cruise missiles days   later. ” ”   To date, more than half of Syria’s   population has been   displaced, and over  Syrians have been killed. ” ’   ”I lost my land, and my history, and my friends,” Khoury said. ”I   am so sad for that.” ’ ’Even before he started covering the civil war. ..’ ’Your Editor (online now)’ ’’ ’’ ’’