’Everyone just wants more battery life.’ ’With each passing year, smartphones get thinner, faster, and stronger, with sharper cameras and better displays. But all of that eats power, and   batteries are still flawed, needy little things.’ ’There is no perfect way around this. Barring some major technical breakthrough, you simply cannot get a phone that lasts a week off a single charge and adequately performs all the tasks people expect from a modern smartphone.’ ’But the  makes the best of what we’ve got today. The latest device from the Taiwanese tech firm is unremarkable from a distance  —   it’s a midrange Android phone, and there are a million of those. However, by mixing a giant 5, 000 mAh battery, an   processor, and a good enough display, it lasts longer than any other   smartphone I’ve seen.’ ’Whether that’s enough to make it worth your $330, though, is another question. Let’s take a closer look:’ ”To be clear, nothing here feels as   as a  or . The aluminum is nice, but the areas above and below the antenna lines are made of a cheaper plastic. It’s not waterproof, either, so you’ll have to watch for spills. And the bezels around the display are sizable, though that’s understandable with a less expensive device like this.” ’I’ll also note that I managed to scratch both the back and front of my device without effort. Your mileage may vary here, but in most cases keeping my phone in the same pocket as my keys hasn’t led to those kind of scuffs.’ ’Altogether, though, the design is a plus. Like  its main competitor, the Zenfone 3 Zoom is affordable without feeling cheap.’ ’Also of note: Like many   unlocked phones, the Zenfone 3 Zoom only works with GSM networks like AT&T and  .’ ’Even then, the phone doesn’t support LTE band 12, which helps boost coverage, particularly indoors, with  . I could get by without it, but be warned that you may see a downgrade.’ ’By contrast, there are models of the Moto G5 Plus that work with all four of the major US carriers.’ ’The speakers on the bottom of the device are decently loud, too. And while we’re talking design, I’ll also note that the fingerprint scanner on the back is nice and fast.’ ”It takes a keen eye to see that, though, and Asus does let you tinker with the color temperature in the settings menu. The display is still a net positive, but again, don’t expect the world for $330.” ’Just know that, if you can spare $100 more,  have virtually no restrictions.’ ’To give a more formal number, I tested the Zenfone 3 Zoom’s battery by continuously web browsing in Chrome over LTE, with a few stops in apps like Twitter and ESPN in between. On average, the phone lasted between   hours.’ ”That is more than the Moto G5 Plus, the  the  the  anything  —   and by a couple of hours at that. It’s fantastic. It’s also more futureproof than most; a battery this big has more room to stay strong when it inevitably degrades over time.” ’The flipside is, because the battery is so huge, the whole phone takes forever to charge, even though it does support some level of   tech.’ ’The difference between the Zenfone 3 Zoom and other   phones may not mean much if you charge your phone every night anyway. But if you’re not as diligent about stuff like that, or you just don’t want to be, there is no better option right now for the  . ’ ’For the longest time, Android fans used to crucify Samsung for stuffing feature after feature into its TouchWiz OS, because it wasted space and overcomplicated the experience of actually using the phone. Eventually, Samsung got the message, and in recent years it’s worked on paring back its excesses. It’s been good.’ ’Asus’ skin is like the alternate timeline where Samsung didn’t bother to clean up. To be fair, some of its optional features are handy: Holding the recent apps button can take a screenshot; an “Outdoor” volume toggle loudens the speakers; another mode makes the screen easier to use with gloves; a simplified “Kids” mode could help parents; and a quick setting to kill off wasteful background processes is nice. There’s !’ ”Getting to all of this, however, is a process. The settings menu is about a mile long, and the things that are helpful don’t make themselves immediately obvious. You can ignore everything and just use the phone for the basic slate of web browsing and apps  —   it’s responsive enough, and Asus doesn’t mess too much with the app drawer or anything like that  —   but even then, much of it just doesn’t look as pleasant as Google’s stock interface.” ’Lenovo isn’t that much better, but the Moto G5 Plus’ take on Android is cleaner, and it starts with a more recent base of Android 7. 0.’ ’It’s not   or  but it’s more than solid for an affordable device. It’s more capable than the Moto G5 Plus, for sure.’ ’As for the front camera, it’s a   shooter, but it’s merely passable, not exceptional. Per usual, megapixels don’t matter as much as the tech behind them.’ ’Everyone just wants more battery life. With. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’