’  ’ ’   French President Emmanuel Macron on Monday leveled a   remarkable criticism of two Russian media outlets  —   with Russian   President Vladimir Putin standing by his side. ’ ’   Macron, at a joint news conference with Putin in Paris, was asked   by a reporter about his refusal to allow access at his   campaign headquarters to some Russian outlets. ’ ’   Macron, whose campaign was the  just before his election victory last month   that cybersecurity firms have traced to Russian operatives,   accused Russia Today and Sputnik of spreading   misinformation. ’ ’   ”Russia Today and Sputnik have been influential outlets which at   several times have spoken mistruths about me and my campaign,”   Macron said, . ”And that’’s why they were not invited to my   headquarters. All media outlets, including Russian ones, have had   access to my campaign. Relationships are always the same.” ’ ’   ”So it was serious that foreign media outlets interfered by   saying serious mistruths during a Democratic campaign. And I will   not give into that in any way,” he added. ”But Russia Today and   Sputnik have not behaved as media outlets and journalists, but   behaved as organs of influence, propaganda, and false   propaganda.” ’ ’’ ”   At the news conference, Putin said he and Macron had not   discussed the topic of election meddling, but rejected   allegations that Russia attempted to influence France’s vote. He   also defended his preelection meeting with Marine Le Pen,   Macron’s chief rival in France’s campaign. Putin said it would   have been strange not to hold a meeting with a candidate who had   expressed warming relations with Russia. ” ’   The US intelligence community has said that an organized Russian   effort was behind a campaign to influence the US presidential   election last year in an attempt to sway the outcome in favor of   US President Donald Trump. The FBI and congressional committees   are conducting investigations into Russian meddling and whether   any Trump associates colluded with Russian officials in the   effort. ’ ’   Putin has also denied that Russia attempted to influence the US   election.  ’ ’French President Emmanuel Macron on. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’