’   Today saw the debut of ”,” a new social   experiment in playing the stock market airing on Twitch, Amazon’’s   live video game streaming service. ’ ’   The idea is reminiscent of 2014’’s ”,” where all shared control of the   classic Nintendo Game Boy game. ’ ”   But this ain’t no game: Mike Roberts, the   Amazon   engineer behind  is   letting players vote on how to invest $50, 000 of his actual   savings on the   stock market. So far, about 60, 000   people have come through to play along, or at least gawk at the   spectacle. ” ’  ’ ’   Roberts says that the idea for something like this has been   kicking around the web for years, with users of sites like Reddit   letting anonymous commenters vote on the next stock they should   buy. Now, after six months of work, Roberts has debuted   StockStream as a more focused, and applied, version of that   concept. ’ ’   ”After the first day, I’’m a lot more bullish than I already was”   about the game, says Roberts.  ’ ’   The way StockStream works is simple: Every five minutes, a round   of voting opens, allowing Twitch viewers to vote on the   purchase or sale of any stock, like ”! buy AAPL” or ! sell TSLA.”   After five minutes, the relevant stocks get added to or   subtracted from Roberts’’ portfolio, with the trade executing via   the popular  app.  ’ ’  ’ ’   Players are then scored on how their stocks performed. If you   suggest buying Apple, and it pops right after the trade is made,   you get points. But if it dives, your score is docked   accordingly. Roberts says that the current scoring system is   confusing for a lot of players, and will likely be revamped, but   those are the basic rules. ’ ”   There’s no prize or payouts for players with the most points.   It’s more about the fun of participating a financial   crowdsourcing experiment. ” ’   As for Roberts, so far the wisdom of the crowd has him treading   water. After day one, Roberts still has about $26, 000 cash on   hand, with a total account value  —   cash on hand, plus the   value of his stocks  —   of about $50, 055. 92 ’ ’   Roberts says he was a little concerned, going in, about trolls   stomping all over the fun social experiment he had envisioned by   purposely trying to derail his portfolio and lose him money. A   few odd choices like Cheesecake Factory and Papa John’’s aside,   though, he says that players have chosen for him ”a reasonable,   diversified portfolio” that includes hot tech stocks like AMD,   Tesla, and Apple. ’ ’   StockStream viewers can make donations to Roberts, but as of day   one, that hasn’’t happened very much, nor does he expect it to. He   does say that a fair amount of StockStream viewers are signing up   for Robinhood via his referral link, which nets him a ”free”   stock bonus for the portfolio when they make their first trade.   Otherwise, it’’s almost entirely his money that’’s on the line. ’ ’  ’ ’   Roberts says he hasn’’t really considered a way for players to   ”win” at StockStream. He feels like it would be disingenuous and   discouraging if he told players that their goal was something as   straightforward as doubling his money; he’’s really in it for   the love of the game.  ’ ”   There is, however, a losing condition. Because of  that he   falls into, Roberts has to make sure that his total account   balance (again, cash plus the value of his stocks) stays above   $25, 000. If it dips below, he won’t legally be allowed to trade   anymore, and so the game is over. So while his account is a   little over twice that today, he acknowledges that there’s an   element of financial danger to the game. ” ’   ”If a lot of these [stocks] start crashing tomorrow, then things   could get dicey,” says Roberts. ’ ’Today saw the debut of ”StockStream,” a new. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’