’  ’ ”   If you can’t beat ’em, join ’em. ” ’   That’’s been the logic employed by tech stock bears who have   thrown in the towel on short positions over the last year. And   the buying volume that results from what’’s commonly referred to   as a ”short squeeze” has been a crucial driver of tech gains   during the period. ’ ”   What’s more, active managers have actually slightly decreased   exposure to the   FANG stocks (Facebook, Amazon, Netflix,   Google) that have recently gotten the lion’s share of credit for   stock gains not just in tech, but also the entire stock market. ” ’   That makes the role of short covering as a driver of share   appreciation even more notable, according to strategists at Bank   of America Merrill Lynch. ’ ’   The   FANG group has returned almost 30% so far   this year, while the S&P 500 has climbed 8%. Just last week   investors    tracking the tech sector, the biggest inflow in almost seven   years. ’ ’   The covering of bearish positions can be seen when looking   at short interest as a percentage of float for FANG stocks, plus   Adobe and Broadcom, which have been identified by BAML as   showing similarly robust sales expansion and     growth potential. The group  —   called FAAANG  —   has seen its level   of shorts decline as positions have been closed. ’ ’  ’ ”   While short covering has clearly been instrumental, no discussion   of tech strength is complete without a mention of the sector’s   torrid earnings growth. The group boasts the best profit   expansion in the S&P 500 at the moment, excluding energy, and   is projected to see earnings increase by 19% for the     2017, while the broader benchmark is expected to see     growth of just 9. 2% according to data compiled by   Bloomberg. ” ’   Still, amid all this talk of FANG & Co. and earnings growth,   not all tech stocks are so loved by investors. Companies like   IBM, Xerox and Yahoo are now more underweight by fund managers   than at any point since 2008, according to holdings data compiled   by BAML. ’ ”If you can’t beat ’em, join ’em. That’s been. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’