’  ’ ’   Comedian Kathy Griffin set the internet ablaze Tuesday after a   photo of her holding a gory, Donald   prop head . ’ ’   The provocative photo has earned Griffin widespread criticism   from politicians and pundits. ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tOur politics have become too base, too low, & too vulgar, but Kathy Griffin’s post descends into an even more repugnant & vile territory. ’t’t” ’ ’t’t’tThis Kathy Griffin thing is so upsetting and disgusting.    is wrong with people today?  Have we lost all our humanity? ’t’t’ ” ’t’t’tIt wasn’t right when peoplel hung lynched Obama effigies, just as what Kathy Griffin did isn’t right now. ’t’t” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tDisgusting but not surprising. This is the left today. They consider this acceptable. Imagine a conservative did this to Obama as POTUS?  ’ ” ’t’t’tKathy Griffin holds Trump’s severed head. She is a sick, vile human being. Typical Leftist. ” ’ ’t’t’tThis is the left. This is what modern day Democrats look like.  ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tHope everyone attacking Kathy Griffin was just as outraged when they hung a lifelike President Barack Obama from a tree after he was elected’t’t’ ” ’t’t’tConservatives who voted for Trump don’t feel they should be held accountable for his views, but think Kathy Griffin represents all liberals. ’t’t” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tI have become so good at ignoring Kathy Griffin through the years that I have no idea what happened today’t’t’ ’ ’t’t’tCondemning this photo shoot is a slippery slope to having to condemn every dumb thing Kathy Griffin does’t’t’ ” ’t’t’tOh please, I’ve been offended by Kathy Griffin since 2007’t’t” ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tmy feed today has mostly been liberals disgusted by Kathy Griffin and conservatives asking why liberals aren’t denouncing Kathy Griffin’t’t” ’ ’t’t’tSomeone, somewhere, is rushing to be the first to post an    Griffin hot take’t’t’ ” ’t’t’tSo I see Kathy Griffin has made a bid for temporary   in our new demotic era. Meh. I’m not scandalized. I’m just bored. ’t’t” ’   The backlash prompted an apology from Griffin, who said she will   ask the photographer from the shoot to take down the image. ’ ’   ” ’ ’Comedian Kathy Griffin set the internet ablaze. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’