’  ’ ’   From the Balkans to the US, walls are going up, not down,   according to demographer and The Fourth Turning author   Neil Howe. ’ ’   Speaking to a packed crowd at Mauldin Economics’  in Orlando, Howe   said we are reliving many of the same trends and changes of the   1930s. ’ ’   “Worldwide, people are losing trust in institutions,” he said.   “Trust in the military, small business, and police is still   there. But trust in democracies, media, and politicians is   dropping. ” ’ ’   “When was the last time we saw these changes and the rise of     populism?” he asked. “The 1930s. ” ’ ’   Howe’s statement is borne out of a June 2016 Gallup poll. When   poll takers were asked how much confidence they had in   institutions in American society, the results were troubling. ’ ’’ ’   Just 15% said they had a “great deal” of confidence in the US   Supreme Court. Banks trailed behind at 11% followed by the   criminal justice system (9%) newspapers (8%) and big business   (6%). ’ ’   Meanwhile, just 16% expressed a “great deal” of confidence in the   presidency, with that number plummeting to 3% for Congress. ’ ’   In his keynote, Howe shared his forecasting logic: “My method is   to step back and realize one thing: There is something we know   about the world in 20 years’ time. The people who live there will   be all of us, 20 years older and playing a different role. I call   this ‘looking along the generational diagonal. ’” ’ ’   The critical thing to remember about the current crisis period is   that what comes next will be an era in which there is a new   order. ’ ’   According to the   generational theory, as this new   order takes root, individualism declines and institutions are   strengthened. ’ ’   “History is seasonal, and winter is coming,” Howe has said.   But after winter, comes spring. ’ ’   As the American Revolution was followed by calm, as the Civil War   was followed by reconstruction and a gilded age, and as the Great   Depression and World War II were followed by an age of peace and   prosperity, so too will this crisis period be followed by a calm,   stable era. ’ ’   It’s simply a matter of time. ’ ’From the Balkans to the US, walls are going up. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’