’   Twitter on Tuesday sought to tamper down a theory that went   viral in   circles over the weekend  —   that     ’ ’user @txmockingjay   posted an initial tweet that claimed 5 million new accounts   followed Trump in the past several days. ’ ’ ’ ”  has gained over 5 mil followers in less than 3 days. Take a   mostly bots. He’s getting ready for something. ” ’   On Tuesday, a separate tweet from author John Niven asserted   that many new Twitter accounts did not have corresponding photos. ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tTrump’s Twitter acc has suddenly gained 3 mil followers and has been blocking lots of people. New followers look like this. ..  ” ”   Many legitimate journalists and news outlets quickly circulated   the story.   and   website  shared Niven’s tweet, and some prominent   personalities shared the initial tweet. ” ’   But the company on Tuesday said the story appeared to be a   strange, and somewhat exaggerated, misstatement. ’ ”   The number of users who followed Trump’s account was far   lower  —   the president had 30. 6 million followers on Friday   compared to 30. 9 million on Tuesday. A Twitter spokesperson   confirmed that the @txmockingjay tweet contained   unsupported information. ” ’   ”That account is not verified and provides no source for their   claim,” Twitter spokesman Nick Pacilio said. ’ ”   According to Twitter, it’s fairly normal for new users to   not upload photos before beginning to use the service. ” ’   In a Twitter direct message with Business Insider  —   the   user chose to remain anonymous  —   @txmockingjay said they   ”may not have been accurate  ” but left the tweet up   to bring attention to an alleged high number of bots following   Trump.  ’ ’   ”I couldn’’t be sure as I was skimming a lot of tweets so I don’’t   remember the original poster,” they said. ”The reason I haven’’t   deleted it is because it brought awareness to the bot situation.” ’ ”   Still, Trump’s peculiar Twitter following in the last month has   stoked speculation about the veracity of   his Twitter followers. ” ’   The Daily Dot reported Monday that Trump gained around 900, 000   fake accounts in the month of May alone,  the outlet speculated could mean   someone was intentionally attempting to get Trump kicked off   Twitter by violating its service terms. ’ ’   Indeed, in past instances,   bot accounts  boosted some tweets supporting the president. ’ ’   Though users peddling misinformation and fake news   often had a   slant during the 2016 presidential   election, in the months since November, a  of prominent examples of   conspiracy theories   and inaccurate information have captured public attention. ’ ’Twitter on Tuesday sought to tamper down. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’