’  ’ ’   President Trump announced on June 1 that the   US will . Questions of  aside, the actions of   people on the ground in the US might circumvent the Trump   announcement  —   causing the US to lower greenhouse gas emissions   to the goals set by the Paris Agreement anyway, despite the   actions of the president. ’ ’   Governors of some of the largest states in the country are   already taking action. ’ ’   Governor Andrew Cuomo of New York, Governor Jerry Brown of   California, and Governor Jay Inslee of Washington announced the    after the announcement,   stating that they would convene states committed to upholding the   Paris Agreement and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. ’ ’   ”The White House’’s reckless decision to withdraw from the Paris   Climate Agreement has devastating repercussions not only for the   United States, but for our planet. This administration is   abdicating its leadership and taking a backseat to other   countries in the global fight against climate change,” said   Governor Cuomo in a statement emailed to Business Insider. ”New   York State is committed to meeting the standards set forth in the   Paris Accord regardless of Washington’’s irresponsible actions. We   will not ignore the science and reality of climate change which   is why I am also signing an Executive Order confirming New York’s   leadership role in protecting our citizens, our environment, and   our planet.” ’ ’   Governor Jerry Brown was just as direct on a call with   reporters organized by the World Resources Institute. ’ ’’ ’   ”This is an insane move by this president; the world depends on a   sustainable future,” said Brown. ”It’’s tragic, but out of that   tragedy I believe the rest of the world will mobilize, will   galvanize our efforts.” ’ ’   As Christiana Figueres, the former executive secretary of the UN   Framework Convention on Climate Change, who led the talks that   created the Paris Climate Agreement in December 2015, explained   on that same call, it was always people in states, cities, and   companies that would be working to cut emissions. Now, they might   be doing the same  —   just without the mandate from the president. ’ ’   ”I think they will do so with much more enthusiasm after today,”   said Figueres. ’ ”   As the World Resources Institute has pointed out,  were   counted as a country, they’d be the fifth largest economy and   sixth largest greenhouse gas emitter in the world  —   meaning that   action by those states is significant enough to have an impact. ” ”   It’s not just states getting involved. Mayors of more than 85   cities around the US signed a letter on Thursday  to reduce emissions and push clean energy. As   Business Insider’s Dana Varinsky  experts believe that it’s possible that   cities alone can ensure the US meets climate goals. ” ’   ”In the US, cities and surrounding areas are responsible for the   majority of greenhouse gas emissions, since they have the largest   populations, heaviest industry and highest volume of cars,” she   wrote. ”Because of that, they are in a position to make a big   impact.” ’ ’   A number of corporations are on board, too. Executives from   companies like Apple, Google, Microsoft and Morgan Stanley, among   others, signed a  to stay in the Paris Agreement before the   announcement. ’ ”   Now it’s a question of how many will go their own way to achieve   the Paris goals, with or without the administration. ” ’President Trump announced on June 1 that the. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’