’  ’ ’   Faraday Future, the flashy Los     startup   that  by a spate of   executive   departures, unpaid bills, lawsuits, and a run of bad press, says   it is trying to turn things around. ’ ’   The company, now guided by its  chief financial officer, Stefan Krause, is on a   $1 billion fundraising blitz and will name the company’’s CEO   ”within the next four weeks,” according to Krause, who spoke to   Business Insider exclusively in his first public comments about   the company’’s plans. ’ ”   Together with Faraday’s primary backer, Jia Yueting, who is the   CEO of Chinese tech giant, LeEco, Krause said naming a Faraday   CEO is pertinent to the company’s investor strategy. ” ’   ”Faraday has a CEO position, and currently there is no name on   that position,” Krause told Business Insider. Krause said Jia,   who goes by the initials YT, has put more than $300 million into   Faraday since it launched in 2014 and will continue to fund the   company while Faraday works to bring in the first $500 million of   its $1 billion Series A round. ’ ’   ”That was part of the discussion I had with him in China,” Krause   said. ”We’ll name a CEO within the next four weeks. YT understood   that it’s core to investors, if they come in, that they obviously   need to understand who the CEO is.” ’ ”   Krause and Faraday’s spokespeople declined to elaborate on   potential candidates for the chief executive position. ” ’  ’ ’   Faraday has been notoriously secretive about all of its plans,   and this is the first time the upstart has publicly acknowledged   that it has not yet named a top executive. Three people close to   Faraday  that Ding Lei, a   cofounder at LeEco, was acting as Faraday’’s ”global CEO” until   late 2016. ’ ’   Those sources said Faraday’’s former ”CEO of record” was David   Wisnieski, who was officially the company’’s director of finance.   Nevada state documents related to Faraday’’s forthcoming assembly   plant in North Las Vegas had listed Wisnieski as president,   secretary, treasurer, and director of ”Faraday & Future   Inc. ,” the company’’s legal name. He left in July 2016. ’ ”   The company’s  filed with the Nevada secretary of state   lists an updated set of officers. ” ”   Until recently, Faraday also declined to reveal who its other   investors were, but that’s changing as well, according to Krause.   Investors signing on to its $1 billion Series A round will be   publicly named sometime in the third quarter this year, Krause   said. ” ’Faraday Future, the flashy Los  . ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’