’  ’ ’   In a speech in the White House Rose Garden on Thursday afternoon,   President Donald Trump laid out his reasons for pulling out of   the Paris climate agreement, an international effort to reduce   global warming, which he called a ”  major economic   wound” that weakens US sovereignty and doesn’’t do much for the   environment. ’ ’   The president argued that the 2015 agreement, which nearly every   country in the world signed onto, ”hamstrings” the US economy,   particularly the manufacturing and fossil fuel industries, hurts   American workers, and empowers countries that pollute almost as   much or more than the US. ’ ’   ”The bottom line is that the Paris agreement is very unfair, at   the highest level, to the United States,” Trump said. ’ ’   He claimed that the agreement would impose ”draconian financial   and economic burdens,” costing America $3 trillion in domestic   economic activity and 6. 5 million industrial and manufacturing   jobs. ’ ’   ”The agreement is a massive redistribution of United States   wealth to other countries,” Trump said, arguing the deal would   ”transfer” American coal jobs to China and India. ’ ’’ ’   Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross said in a statement that the   agreement would result in ”economic carnage.” ’ ’   In line with his ”America First” motto, the president argued that   the deal would put international interests ahead of American   needs. ’ ’   ”I was elected to represent the citizens of Pittsburgh, not   Paris,” he said. ’ ’   Vice President Mike Pence claimed Trump’’s decision proves   his commitment to ”forgotten” Americans, particularly those   in communities that voted heavily for Trump in November. ’ ’   ”Our president is choosing to put American jobs and American   consumers first,” Pence said. ”Our president is choosing to put   American energy and American industry first. And by his action   today, President Trump is choosing to put the forgotten men and   women first.” ’ ”   And as Business Insider’s Josh Barro  the climate agreement is   in nature,   so therefore Trump’s withdrawal from it is largely symbolic. ” ’   But  including major oil   companies Royal Dutch Shell, ExxonMobil and BP, support the   Paris agreement, arguing that climate change is a threat to their   businesses and that rejecting the deal would harm the   international relations their global operations rely on. Dozens   of other CEOs  that pulling out of the deal will hurt   the US economy. ’ ’   Still, Trump emphasized his claim that the accord imposes harsher   restrictions on the US than on other big polluters, putting   America at a ”permanent disadvantage.” He suggested that   countries around the world are celebrating the deal because it   gives them an economic edge over the US.  ’ ”   Although he called out China and India, the two largest   polluters besides the US, Trump did not mention that the US, home   to about 4% of the world’s population, is responsible for   almost one third of the excess carbon dioxide in the   atmosphere. While China, which makes up 20% of the   world’s population, emits more CO2 now, historically, the US   has polluted more than any other country.  ” ’   As for the impact of the accord on global warming, Trump   argued the deal would only lead to a ”tiny” reduction in   global temperatures. ’ ’   Trump has long criticized the Paris deal, promising to ”cancel”   it on the campaign trail, and is an outspoken climate science   skeptic, calling climate change ”.” ’ ’In a speech in the White House Rose Garden on. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’