’  ’ ”   US President Donald Trump’s administration has begun returning to   Congress copies of a voluminous 2014 report describing the CIA’s   harsh detention and interrogation programs, US officials said on   Friday. ” ”   The Trump administration’s move means it could be more difficult   for the full,   report to be made public, because   documents held by Congress are exempt from laws requiring   government records to eventually be made public. ” ”   The White House made the move in response to requests by Sen.   Richard Burr, the Senate Intelligence Committee’s current   Republican chairman, officials said. ” ’   In a statement emailed to Reuters, Burr said: ”I have directed my   staff to retrieve copies of the Congressional study that remain   with the Executive Branch agencies and, as the Committee does   with all classified and compartmented information, will enact the   necessary measures to protect the sensitive sources and methods   contained within the report.” ’ ’   Sen. Dianne Feinstein, the Democrat who chaired the committee   when the report was produced, had asked that it be distributed to   multiple executive branch agencies, a move designed to make it   eventually releasable to the public under the Freedom of   Information Act law. ’ ’   Feinstein said in a statement that she was ”concerned and   disappointed” that Burr requested that the document be returned,   calling it a departure from the committee’’s normal bipartisan   nature. ’ ’   ”No senator, chairman or not, has the authority to erase history.   I believe that is the intent of the chairman in this case,” she   said. ’ ’   Sen Mark Warner, who succeeded Feinstein as the committee’’s top   Democrat, said in a Twitter post he was ”disappointed” with   Burr’’s decision, and that the report ”must be preserved so we can   learn from past mistakes & ensure that abuses are never   repeated.” ’ ’  ’ ”   A declassified executive summary of the report was made public in   December 2014. It concluded that the CIA’s interrogation   programs, using techniques such as waterboarding that most   observers consider torture, were more brutal and less effective   than the CIA had told policymakers. ” ’   The report said that not a single terrorist attack was foiled as   a result of the use of harsh interrogation techniques. ’ ’   The American Civil Liberties Union had filed litigation to have   the full report released. But U. S. courts ruled that because the   document was created by Congress, it was exempt from the Freedom   of Information Act. ’ ’   At least one copy of the report, however, will not be returned to   the committee. That’s because a copy has been preserved in former   President Barack Obama’s presidential archive, according to a   Dec. 9, 2016 letter written to Feinstein by Obama’s top White   House lawyer at the time, W. Neil Eggleston. ’ ”   The CIA declined to comment. Burr’s move was first reported by   the New York Times. ” ”US President Donald Trump’s administration has. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’