’  ’ ’   British police responded to reports of multiple violent incidents   across London on Saturday evening, after witnesses said a   vehicle mowed down pedestrians on the London Bridge. ’ ’   British Prime Minister Theresa May says the incident is being   treated as a ”potential act of terrorism.” ’ ’   Police also responded to reports of gunfire and   stabbings at Borough Market, as well as reports of a third   incident in the Vauxhall area. ’ ’  ’ ’   Police have reportedly arrested one man, and are searching for   . ’ ’  ’ ’ ’ ’     ’ ’US President Donald Trump has also been   briefed on the incident, White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer   . ’ ’   Fox News  who   said that people had been stabbed at the London Bridge incident,   and Reuters reported that one witness had seen people who may   have had their throats cut. ’ ’   Some passersby  they saw   people struck on the bridge, while   others said they saw  . Heaven also said he   heard reports of stabbings. ’ ’    ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’     ’ ’   Lara   witnessed the aftermath of the London Bridge   incident.   told The Guardian she was having drinks with a   friend at the Old Thameside Inn, which is located under London   Bridge, when people ran into the bar and told patrons to run away   because ”people are stabbing each other. ’ ’   Stephen Tull was under the bridge when the attack happened. He   said he heard a bang and ran up to the bridge to help. He said he   saw one man jump out of a van and begin attacking people. ’ ’   When   and her friend ran up to London Bridge, she said   she and her friend were told by officers to run away.     provided video footage to The Guardian which showed at least   three injured people being treated for their injuries on the   bridge. ’ ’   ”I saw people moving, but we though,     this is a serious   thing,”   said. ’ ’ ’ ’   ’ ’     ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tThis was scene as we left London Bridge.  ’ ’     ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tAnother cab driver: man crashed into people then there was stabbing attack. London Bridge. ’t’t’ ’     ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tIt seemed south side of London Bridge epicentre of what seems a terrorist attack. We have been escorted by police from bridge. ’t’t’ ’     ’ ’ ’ ’BREAKING NEW VIDEO: several London police officers enter bar at London Bridge telling people to get down. ’ ’     ’ ’ This story is developing. .. ’ ’British police responded to reports of multiple. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’