’  ’ ’   Apple revealed its   plan for the future this week. ’ ”   If you don’t remember that slide from the hours of presentations   Apple execs made on stage during the company’s developer   conference on Monday, you’re not alone.  ” ”   Apple didn’t explicitly call it a   plan. And the   company was very subtle about how it showed this roadmap.  ” ”   But look closely, and it’s easy to see. ” ”   Instead of introducing flashy new products that will change your   life today, this year’s WWDC conference was all about putting the   pieces in place for what comes next.  ” ’  ’ ’   A new augmented reality platform, virtual reality development   tools, the HomePod speaker, and improvements to iOS 11 on iPad   may not feel revolutionary or even particularly useful right now,   but they are the building blocks for the technologies Apple is   betting will power our future. ’ ”   Let’s break it down: ” ’  ’ ’   Ask most tech companies today what product will replace the   smartphone and the answer will probably revolve around a wearable   device for ”augmented reality,” the tech that overlays digital   images on the real world. ’ ’   Microsoft has . Google has  and, one day, headgear like Google   Glass. Facebook announced its AR ambitions a few months ago, and   Mark Zuckerberg even said  one day.  ’ ”   Apple’s approach is different. ” ”   There weren’t any AR goggle demos or TED     prophecies about how a pair of glasses will soon be the only   computer you need. Instead, Apple is starting with something   already very familiar: the iPhone and a new way for developers to   build AR apps for the phone. When iOS 11 becomes available   on tens of millions of Apple devices this fall, Apple will   immediately have the largest AR platform. Even better, it’ll be   on the devices that people already use, not futuristic   glasses or headsets. Apple will get a major advantage over   its AR competitors with one simple software update. ” ”   That  of course, and it certainly   won’t deliver the kind of   experience being developed   by companies like Magic Leap.   iPhones will mostly mean   some cool games and entertainment apps at first. Pikachu   will look more realistic in Pokémon GO. You’ll be able to build   virtual Lego models on your coffee table. The rainbow puke in   your Snapchat selfies will look even better. ” ”   But AR on the iPhone sets Apple up for the long run by   building a base of developers already dedicated to the   platform who want to make stuff for the largest amount   of users they can. If and when Apple decides to take AR to   the next level with a pair of smart glasses or something else,   it’ll be in a better position than companies trying to win over   developers. ” ’  ’ ”   Apple has been  even as the   rest of the tech industry seemed to be . But now the time   feels right for Apple, and it’s offering a new set of tools in   the the upcoming macOS Sierra software that lets developers   connect VR headsets and create 3D and VR content. ” ”   This isn’t about attracting gamers and VR enthusiasts to the   Mac. This is about making sure Apple’s most dedicated class of   users have the tools they need to create the content of the   future. Apple has historically been the platform of choice for   digital artists, filmmakers, and other professionals, and adding   VR development tools will make sure those users have what they   need and don’t abandon Apple. ” ’  ’ ”   HomePod, the new Amazon Echo competitor, is Apple’s biggest new   Trojan horse of all. ” ’   Even though Apple  and pitched it as a   new kind of home stereo, it undersold the rest of the real   potential. HomePod is also Apple putting Siri in your home   in a new way and making a   play for the concept of   ambient computing, where everything you own is connected and   powered by an underlying artificial intelligence. ’ ”   HomePod is a way to put Siri everywhere else when you’re not   looking at your iPhone, typing on your Mac, listening to your   AirPods, or tracking your workout on your Apple Watch. HomePod is   Apple creeping into the rest of your life under the guise of a   really nice WiFi stereo. Apple may be focusing on music now   with HomePod, but it’s also sneaking in a lot of Amazon     features like controlling your connected appliances and getting   updates from Siri. ” ”   That said, it’s pretty clear why Apple would want to bury the AI   features of HomePod. Pitching it as a digital assistant instead   of a music player will only open up Apple to more criticism about   how its falling behind in AI compared to Google and Amazon.   Apple’s Siri is still much less capable as a virtual assistant   than the rival offerings from Amazon and Google, and Apple has a   lot more work to do to catch up. But there’s no question   that AI is a big area of investment for Apple, and HomePod will   play an important role in this strategy as Apple makes progress. ” ’  ’ ”   The biggest news with iOS 11 wasn’t on the iPhone. It was on the   iPad. ” ”   Apple has finally started making improvements to the software   that help turn the iPad into the laptop replacement the company   has been . There’s a new file storage system, an   app dock similar to the one on Mac, the ability to drag and drop   content in between apps, and apps that float in separate windows.   The iPad is starting to feel less like a giant iPhone and more   like a touchscreen Mac. ” ”   There’s still a lot of work to do. The iPad Pro’s keyboard isn’t   as good as the one on a normal laptop, and it’s now up to   developers to build compelling apps that take advantage of   all the new iOS 11 features and give people a better reason to   ditch their laptop for an iPad. The new 10.  iPad is a small   move in the right direction since its larger size allows for a     keyboard, but it’s still not enough. ” ’   But Apple is inching closer towards its ultimate goal of creating   a super thin and portable laptop replacement, and iOS 11   feels like huge milestone.  ’ ”   A lot of this stuff may not work out. We’re in a period of   relatively flat innovation across most of the tech industry,   where new gizmos only improve incrementally year to year. It’s   impossible to tell which wild idea will actually end up taking   off and which will fizzle. (Two years ago everyone thought   smartwatches were going to revolutionize the tech industry, after   all. Now that’s barely part of the conversation.) ” ”   In some sense, Apple’s latest batch of WWDC announcements   feels underwhelming, like Apple is dabbling in various areas   rather than making a bold move in any one direction. But the   company’s vision for the future is already being etched   into its products. Just look closely, it’s right in front of   you. ” ’Apple revealed its   plan for the future. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’