’  ’ ’   Police just named two of the men behind the London Bridge   and Borough Market attacks on Saturday . ’ ”   The Metropolitan Police knew about the trio’s identities for   some time, but kept the intelligence under wraps while   investigation work continued. Press were also held back from   naming the individuals. ” ’   The suspects hired a van and drove into pedestrians on London   Bridge at around 10 p. m. BST (5 p. m. ET) on Saturday evening.   They then abandoned the van and went on a stabbing spree in   Borough Market. ’ ’   They killed seven people during the rampage and injured a further   48. Some 18 of those are in a critical condition.  a Canadian    who   volunteered at a homeless shelter. ’ ’   Police shot dead the three men just eight minutes after the first   emergency call from a member of the public. They fired an   ”unprecedented” 50 rounds to halt the suspects in their tracks. ’ ’   I According to a statement posted to its   ”Amaq” propaganda outlet, ISIS said a ”detachment” of its   fighters were behind the carnage. ’ ’   In a statement, the Metropolitan Police said Butt was a      British citizen who was born in Pakistan. Redouane,   30, had said he was Moroccan and Libyan, and also used the name   Rachid Elkhdar. Butt was known to the police and MI5 while   Redouane was not. ’ ’  ’ ’   Butt was the ”ringleader” and was known as ”Abz,”  The    worked in KFC, on the London   Underground, and for fashion retailer Top Shop. He was of   Pakistani origin, and had two children, the newspaper said. ’ ’   Butt appeared in Channel 4’’s 2016 documentary ”The Jihadis Next   Door,” . He and others were filmed praying in front of an   unfurled ISIS flag in Regent’’s Park, London. They were later   detained by police in connection with the incident. ’ ’   He was also reported to police by his neighbours, according to   the BBC. They spoke to the broadcaster after his flat was raided   by police in Barking on Sunday. ’ ”   Under the condition of anonymity, a neighbour told the BBC’s   Asian Network that Butt used to watch clips of the American hate   preacher Ahmad Musa Jibril. ” ’   ”I phoned the   hotline. I spoke to the gentleman. I   told him about our conversation and why I think he was   radicalised,” he said. ”I did my bit, I know a lot of other   people did their bit but the authorities did not do their bit.” ’ ’   Butt was known to the police and MI5, the Met said in a   statement. They added, however, that there was no intelligence to   suggest that the attack was being planned. ’ ’  ’ ’   Butt was reportedly wearing an Arsenal shirt on the night of the   attack.  ’ ’   Redouane was    and born in July 1986. He claimed he   was Moroccan and Libyan. Redouane also used the name Rachid   Elkhdar, police said, and worked as a pastry chef, according to   the Daily Mail. ’ ’   An Irish identity card was found on his body,  Sky News said he lived in Dublin for 18   months between 2014 and 2016 and had a Scottish wife. ’ ’   Irish police are working closely with British security and   intelligence agencies. Taoiseach Enda Kenny said the attacker was   not known to local law enforcement,  British police were not aware of him either,   they said. ’ ”   The Met appealed for more information on the attackers, with the   third suspect’s identity still being kept from the public. They   are particularly keen to hear about their movements in the days   and hours before Saturday’s attack. ” ’   ”I would urge anyone with information about these men, their   movements in the days and hours before the attack and the places   they frequented to come forward,” said Assistant Commissioner   Mark Rowley. ’ ’   The public can contact police by calling 0800 789321 or 999 in an   emergency. ’ ’   Police are making progress in tracking down people they believe   may be connected to the attack. They have conducted multiple   raids in London and made 12 arrests. ’ ’   A    man was released without charge on Monday morning,   while the remaining 11 are being detained on suspicion of   offences under the Terrorism Act. ’ ’ This story is developing. .. ’ ’Police named two of the London Bridge. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’