”Buying quality costs more, but it’s often worth it. There are some items a man needs to buy only once. Provided proper care is taken, they can be worn or used forever. ” ”We’ve rounded up 13 items that will neither break nor go out of style, so you can build your wardrobe with an eye to longevity.” ”Taking into account the odd sole replacement here and there, these items will last decades, even with constant use. Many of these products are even covered by lifetime warranties, so you can be sure to get your money’s worth.” ”Take care of a pair of quality dress shoes, and they’ll last as long as you need them to.” ’With the proper maintenance, a good pair of dress shoes should last until you no longer need them, even with constant wear.’ ”Brands with the reputation to create shoes like this include Allen Edmonds, Alden, Church’s, and Crockett and Jones.” ”L. L. Bean’s  are the quintessential bad weather boot, so it’s no surprise that they’re tough as nails.” ”They’ll take anything you throw at them and are even backed by L. L. Bean’s  in case anything comes undone before you think it should.” ”Chances are you’ll never wear a tie out. You will, however, get tired of your patterns and widths, and you’ll need to buy new ties that are styled a little differently.” ’We recommend a subtly styled type in a 2.   to    size, which will be able to handle any new trends in the years to come. ’ ”You might be tempted to go cheap on your first suit. After all, it’s just a starting point  —   why splurge for something you don’t know if you’re going to wear a lot, or even like?” ”But we recommend a different approach. Go for quality, and you’ll never need to buy another suit in that color again.” ”On the lower end, we recommend  which starts at around $500. More expensive than that, and you’re probably only going to get better.” ” coats were built for the British wilderness, so they’ll hold up. The coats are   out of tough materials to ensure a dry journey, wither you’re on the moors or 5th Avenue.” ’If anything goes wrong, you can mail the jacket back to Barbour for a   and repair. ’ ’A mechanical timepiece is a treasure you can keep forever. Whether you wear it once a year or every day, it will keep on ticking provided you give it the proper  .’ ”Socks aren’t something usually considered safe to buy once and wear for a long time. They often develop holes over time, leading to their untimely demise.” ’ however, claims something different. Their   socks are ”unconditionally guaranteed for life,” so they’’ll keep your feet warm for years and years to come.’ ’There are only a few bags that could truly stand the test of time, and many of them carry the label of .’ ’The brand, which still makes its products in the US, produces a line of oilcloth and   bags and luggage that look refined, but feel bulletproof.’ ”It’s difficult to find a brand of luggage that can put up with the punishment that travel bags receive. It’s imperative that it can stand up to punishment from a bag handler who may treat it less gingerly than you do.” ’’’s brand of luggage carries a ”Simple as That Warranty” that covers the repair of all functional aspects of the Briggs & Riley bag for the lifetime of the product.’ ’Leather is one of those materials that just gets better with age. As it wears, it takes on its own patina and character, only becoming more beautiful. With the odd oiling, it can avoid cracking and last a lifetime.’ ’ makes some of the most classic leather jacket options that are built to be worn and worn.’ ’Believe it not, a leather wallet is something you can buy once and use forever.’ ’Since leather is such a hardy material, it can stand up to punishment. A wallet from or a similar   can last much longer than anything made from cloth or Velcro.’ ’Belts are often cheaply made, using bonded leather that can break down easily under the stress of a waistline.’ ’Instead, buy a belt made from   leather, which will last much longer.’ ’Similar to a suit, a tuxedo never needs to be bought more than once.’ ”Though styles do fluctuate, they never really change that much. Buy one tuxedo, and as long as you don’t grow out of it, you can wear it for a very long time.” ”Buying quality costs more, but it’s often worth. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’