’  ’ ”   Uber has fired the head of its business in Asia amid a   controversy over his alleged acquisition of a rape victim’s   medical records, according to published reports. ” ’   The executive, Eric Alexander, not only obtained the medical   records of the victim, who was an Uber customer in India, but   shared them with other executives, according to Recode, which   first reported his firing. Uber fired Alexander on Tuesday   over the medical records issue, . ’ ’   Uber confirmed to Business Insider that Alexander is no longer   employed by the company, but declined to comment further on the   circumstances.  ’ ’   In December 2014,  after she   dozed off during the ride.  ’ ”   Company officials publicly decried the attack. But behind the   scenes, Uber execs expressed skepticism that the rape   actually happened, according to Recode’s report. They also   discussed whether the incident was part of a scheme by Ola,   Uber’s Indian competitor, to sabotage Uber’s business in the   country, Recode reported. ” ’’ ”   Alexander obtained the victim’s medical records and showed them   to Uber CEO Travis Kalanick and Emil Michael, the company’s VP of   business, according to the report. Alexander continued to   carry the records around for a year until other executives   obtained a copy of them and destroyed his copy of the records,   Recode reported.  ” ”   It’s unclear how Alexander obtained the medical records. Photos   online show that  for multiple days of police   questioning.  ” ”   Despite Uber’s top executives allegedly knowing Alexander had   obtained the rape victim’s medical records, he remained   employed by the company for the last three years. ” ”   On Tuesday, Uber announced the initial results of an   investigation into charges of harassment and other complaints at   the company. Although Alexander’s acquiring of the victim’s   medical records was among the 215 complaints investigated,   he wasn’t among the  the company said it had fired in response to   them, according to Recode.  ” ’   The rape in India has often been seen as a pivotal   moment for Uber. Delhi  in the   city after the attack. And the incident prompted the company   to revise its background check system and introduce new safety   features, including a help button inside its app.  ’ ”   Read Recode’s full report on Alexander’s actions .  ” ’Uber has fired the head of its business in Asia. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’