’  ’ ”   Former FBI Director James Comey will tell the Senate Intelligence   Committee on Thursday that President Donald Trump asked him for   his loyalty during a dinner in January and requested in an Oval   Office meeting in February that he drop the FBI’s investigation   into former national security adviser Michael Flynn. ” ’   At the January 27 dinner, ”the president began by asking me   whether I wanted to stay on as FBI director, which I found   strange because he had already told me twice in earlier   conversations that he hoped I would stay, and I had assured him   that I intended to,” Comey said in his prepared remarks, which   the committee published Wednesday. ’ ’   ”My instincts told me that the    setting, and the   pretense that this was our first discussion about my position,   meant the dinner was, at least in part, an effort to have me ask   for my job and create some sort of patronage relationship,” the   remarks say. ”That concerned me greatly, given the FBI’’s   traditionally independent status in the executive branch.” ’ ’   Comey, whom Trump fired on May 9, wrote in the remarks that he   told Trump he loved his work and ”intended to stay and serve out   my   term as director. . .. I added that I was not on   anybody’’s side politically and could not be counted on in the   traditional political sense, a stance I said was in his best   interest as the president. ’ ’   ”A few moments later, the president said, ’’I need loyalty. I   expect loyalty,’’” Comey continued. ”I didn’’t move, speak, or   change my facial expression in any way during the awkward silence   that followed. We simply looked at each other in silence. The   conversation then moved on, but he returned to the subject near   the end of our dinner.” ’ ’’ ’   According to the prepared remarks, Comey will also tell Congress   about his conversation with Trump during an Oval Office meeting   on February 14 in which Trump told him he wanted to talk about   Flynn, who had resigned the day before. ’ ’   ”The president began by saying Flynn hadn’’t done anything wrong   in speaking with the Russians, but he had to let him go because   he had misled the vice president,” Comey’’s remarks say. ”He added   that he had other concerns about Flynn, which he did not then   specify. ’ ’   ”’’He is a good guy and has been through a lot,’’” Comey recalls   Trump saying of Flynn. ”He repeated that Flynn hadn’’t done   anything wrong on his calls with the Russians but had misled the   vice president. He then said, ’’I hope you can see your way clear   to letting this go, to letting Flynn go. He is a good guy. I hope   you can let this go. ’’” ’ ’   Comey’’s prepared remarks say he told Trump that he agreed Flynn   was ”a good guy,” but that he did not tell the president that he   would drop the investigation. He did, however, reassure Trump   that he was not the direct subject of the FBI’’s   counterintelligence investigation. ’ ”   Still, according to Comey’s prepared testimony, Trump called him   at least twice more, on March 30 and April 11, to discuss the   Russia investigation. ” ’   ”On the morning of March 30, the president called me at the FBI.   He described the Russia investigation as ’’a cloud’’ that was   impairing his ability to act on behalf of the country,” Comey’’s   remarks say. ”He said he had nothing to do with Russia, had not   been involved with hookers in Russia, and had always assumed he   was being recorded when in Russia.” ’ ’   Comey, along with the director of the National Security Agency,   Mike Rogers, had testified the week before that the FBI was   investigating whether there was any coordination between the   Trump campaign and Russian officials during the election. ’ ’   ”I responded that we were investigating the matter as quickly as   we could and that there would be great benefit, if we didn’’t   find anything, to our having done the work well,” Comey’’s remarks   say. ”He agreed, but then   the problems this was   causing him.” ’ ’   On April 11, Trump called Comey again, according to the prepared   testimony, to ask what the FBI director had done to tell the   public that Trump himself was not under investigation. ’ ’   ”I replied that I had passed his request to the acting deputy   attorney general, but I had not heard back,” Comey’’s remarks say.   ”He replied that ’’the cloud’’ was getting in the way of his   ability to do his job. He said that perhaps he would have his   people reach out to the acting deputy attorney general. I said   that was the way his request should be handled. I said the White   House counsel should contact the leadership of DOJ to make the   request, which was the traditional channel.” ’ ”   The  leading   Trump to fire Comey appears to have been the president’s    after Comey confirmed in an open  —   and televised  —   hearing before   the Senate Judiciary Committee that the FBI was still   investigating whether the Trump campaign had colluded with   Russia. ” ’   Comey had not allowed the White House to preview that testimony,   which Trump and his aides considered ”an act of insubordination,”   . The New York Times  saying Trump was broadly irked by his   inability to gain assurances of loyalty from Comey. ’ ’   Comey will testify one day after the Senate Intelligence   Committee grilled top intelligence officials about the   circumstances surrounding his firing. ’ ’   Democratic Sen. Mark Warner told the officials  —   National   Security Agency Director Mike Rogers, acting FBI Director Andrew   McCabe, Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, and Director of   National Intelligence Dan Coats  —   that it was ”jarring” to hear   ”recent reports of White House officials, perhaps even the   president himself, attempting to influence and enlist our     leaders in attempting to undermine an   ongoing FBI investigation.” ’ ’Former FBI Director James Comey will tell the. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’