’  ’ ’   WASHINGTON  —   Former FBI Director James Comey  on Thursday that he felt President   Donald Trump fired him ”because of the Russia investigation,”   raising further questions about whether the president obstructed   justice in dismissing Comey last month. ’ ’   ”I know I was fired because of something about the way I was   conducting the Russia investigation,” Comey told Sen. Jack Reed   of Rhode Island. ”I was in some way putting pressure on him, in   some way irritating him, and he decided to fire me because of   that.” ’ ’   He later added: ”There’’s no doubt that it’’s a fair judgment  —     it’’s my judgment  —   that I was fired because of the Russia   investigation. I was fired, in some way, to change, or the   endeavor was to change, the way the Russia investigation was   being conducted. That is a very big deal, and not just because it   involves me. The nature of the FBI, and the nature of its work,   requires that it not be the subject of political consideration.” ’ ’   Comey told the committee in his opening remarks that he had been   ”confused” and became ”increasingly concerned” by Trump’’s   comments in the days after he was fired, which indicated that he   had been dismissed because Trump wanted to ”relieve pressure”   from the investigation into whether his campaign colluded with   Moscow. ’ ’   In an interview with NBC’’s Lester Holt shortly after firing   Comey, Trump admitted that ”the Russia thing” was on his mind   when he fired Comey, adding that the FBI was in ”turmoil” and in   need of a new director. He acknowledged that he was going to fire   Comey ”regardless” of the recommendations given to him by Deputy   Attorney General Rod Rosenstein and Attorney General Jeff   Sessions. ’ ’   Comey’’s testimony raises questions about whether Trump obstructed   justice in his interactions with the former FBI director,   beginning with a dinner on January 27, during which Comey said   Trump asked him for his ”loyalty.” ’ ’   Experts  on Wednesday that Comey’’s written remarks for   testimony, published on the committee’’s website, ”absolutely   bolster the case for obstruction of justice.” ’ ’   Comey told the committee in both written and spoken testimony   that Trump asked him during an Oval Office meeting on February 14   to drop the investigation into former national security adviser   Michael Flynn. Comey told Sen. Jim Risch he took Trump’’s comment   that it was his ”hope” the investigation could be dropped ”as a   direction.” ’ ’   ”I took it as: This is what he wants me to do,” Comey told Risch.   When Sen. Dianne Feinstein asked him to elaborate, he said that   ”the context and the president’’s words are what led me to that   conclusion.” ’ ’   ”Flynn had been forced to resign the day before, and the   controversy around Gen. Flynn at that point in time was centered   on whether he had lied to the vice president about the nature of   his conversations with the Russians,” Comey said. When they met   on February 14, Comey said, ”the president made specific   reference to that. So that’’s why I understood him to be saying he   wanted me to drop any investigation connected to Flynn’’s account   of his conversations with the Russians.” ’ ’   Comey said he told the president that Flynn was ”a good guy,” but   he wouldn’’t commit to dropping the probe. Asked why he didn’’t   tell Trump in that moment that what he was requesting was   unethical, Comey told Feinstein that he was ”so stunned by the   conversation that I just took it in.” ’ ’   He added that he did not tell Sessions about the conversation,   which he took notes on, because he had information to suggest   that Sessions would soon recuse himself from the investigation.   But he told the committee he could not disclose that information   in a public session. ’ ’   Sessions recused himself in late February after reports surfaced   that he had had more than one undisclosed conversation with   Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak. ’ ”   Comey said he relayed the details of the conversation with his   chief of staff, the FBI’s deputy director, the bureau’s general   counsel, the deputy director’s chief counsel, and the associate   deputy director. The head of the FBI’s national security branch   was also apprised of the meeting, he said. ” ’   Comey told the committee that he documented his interactions with   Trump in memos because he was ” ’ ’ ’ ’WASHINGTON  —   Former FBI Director James Comey. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’