’  ’ ’   The greatest of all time may be losing his edge. ’ ’   Jordan Brand, the biggest name in athletic footwear, has been on   a slide recently and it could be weighing on Nike. ’ ’   During a recent conference call with Jefferies analyst Randy   Konik, Josh Luber, the CEO of sneaker resale platform StockX,   laid out the issues facing the Jordan Brand and how it could try   and combat the problems going forward. ’ ’   According to Luber, as of January 2015, Jordan Brand made up 96%   of the shoe resale market and Adidas was down to around 1%.   Nowadays, said Luber, Adidas has 45% market share. ’ ’   ”So, in two and half years, [Adidas] basically went from   nonexistent or 1 percent call it, to about 45 percent of the   resell market in terms of dollars,” Luger said. ”And all of that   share comes right from Nike and Jordan, because there’’s nowhere   else really for it to come from, and mainly from Jordan   Brand.” ’ ’’ ’   Luber said that the slipping market share of the Jordan Brand is   due to two big issues facing the company: ’ ’   Luber said that the second issue, oversupply, was the one that   really mattered. Jordan Brand has maintained a relatively lofty   reputation since its introduction due to its limited supply. By   eroding this Brand value, the   negative for Nike could   be substantial. ’ ’   Additionally, by maintaining a higher reputation this prevents   the shoes from being subject to other factors like the style   issue. ’ ”   In the end, the solution, according to Luber, is to rebuild   the Jordan mystique by limiting the supply once again. The only   problem is that may have other adverse effects on Nike’s overall   business. ” ’   ”And it’’s (  sword) right because I don’t know what it   would do to revenues or earnings to start really cutting back on   supply of Jordans, and how do you get that elsewhere,” Luber   said. ’ ’   ”But long term and for the Brand, for protecting the Jordan   Brand, that’’s definitely what I think they should be doing.” ’ ’The greatest of all time may be losing his. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’