’  ’ ”   You’re an adult now, you may think, and the number of parties you   were or were not invited to when you were 16 is meaningless. ” ”   But you’d be wrong, according to Dr. Mitch Prinstein, one of the   world’s foremost researchers on the psychology of popularity. ” ’   We spoke with Prinstein about his new book, ”,”   and  adapted from the one he teaches at the   University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. ’ ’   ”I believe that what we know is that people’’s status may change;   their internal experience does not,” Prinstein told Business   Insider. ”The research shows that the ways that our brains are   built and developed, we really pull on those old adolescent   memories far more often than we realize. Even when we’’re   processing things in current day.” ’ ”   Bear in mind that : social reputation   (status) and social preference (likability). You can have one   without the other, but you’re better served by having both  —   and   your level of each influences your life far beyond high school. ” ’   Check out how your place in the high school ecosystem is likely   affecting you today. ’ ’ • High status  • Low likability ’ ’   The idea of ”peaking in high school” feels intuitive when we go   to high school reunions and find that the years haven’’t been kind   to some, but there’’s research that suggests it’’s a real   phenomenon for those who had high status but low likability. ’ ’   ”There is some evidence to suggest that 10 years later, 20 years   later, they are having some more difficulties with relationships,   those that were high in status in adolescence,” Prinstein said.   ”They are having more difficulties with addictions  —   not in every   case, obviously, but far more so than those who may not have been   as popular.” ’ ’   For example, those that fit into the popular jock and ”mean girl”   archetypes of American culture tend to demonstrate aggression and   displays of dominance on their peers, and when they leave the   context of high school, they struggle to create meaningful,   fulfilling relationships, which then leads to lowered  . ’ ’ • Low status  • High likability ’ ”   High intelligence in adolescence does not, of course, guarantee   low status, but the kids who outwardly express their fascination   with academics and niche subjects tend to be labeled nerds, and   usually aren’t spotted at the lunch tables among     athletes. ” ”   But, if these   teenagers happen to have some degree of   interpersonal skills that allows them to build relationships,   they shouldn’t worry. ” ’   In fact, Prinstein told us, these charming geeks have a good   chance of achieving success as adults, because the same high   intelligence that got them shunned as adolescents becomes   rewarded in a collegiate and then professional setting, and their   likability makes people want to help them. ’ ’ • High status  • High likability ’ ’   If a teenager is lucky enough to achieve both high status and   high likability, then they have a solid foundation for their   adult life. ’ ”   Prinstein noted that likability is far more important than status   when it comes to potential for success and   happiness. Pursuing status at the expense of likability   is typically harmful, but that doesn’t mean high status or the   pursuit of it are inherently bad things. ” ’ • Low status  • Low likability ’ ’   The kids who had the toughest time in school unfortunately tend   to have the toughest time as adults, too. ’ ’  ’ ’   As noted above, those who were low in status but had the capacity   to build relationships can do quite well in life, but the   teenagers who are total social outcasts enter adulthood with a   shaky foundation. ’ ’   Those whose professional and personal   suffer the most   are what Prinstein calls the   the kids who   were not only rejected but reacted to this by engaging in fights   or even becoming bullies themselves. It creates a vicious   cycle of increasingly lowered status and likability that can be   difficult to escape. ’ ’   Even if an adult thinks they outgrew their problematic behavior   in high school and now have a great job and a family, they are   usually still hindered by their experience as a teenager. ”The   thing that’’s interesting is that if you speak with those who have   those impressive résumés who may not have been so likable and may   have had some difficulties with their popularity as kids, they   still feel insecure, no matter how many achievements they accrue   professionally,” Prinstein said. ”They still feel a sense of   inferiority, a concern about being rejected by others, a   hyperfocus on potential rejection signals.” ’ ”   Prinstein clarified that one’s status as a teenager, for better   or worse, is a strong indicator of how their adult life will   unfold, but it doesn’t have to be permanent. ” ’   He said that he wants people who read his book to think about   their own experience with popularity as an adolescent and instead   of writing it off, to understand it. When you can come to terms   with who you were, you are then able to focus on who you are   today. ’ ’   He also recommends that everyone focus on improving their   likability  —   in a genuine way. ’ ’   We should make ”efforts to try and do things that are attentive   to others’’ needs and to show people that we genuinely want to   interact with them, not use them for our purposes,” he said.   ”Because the more likable you are, the more advantage you have in   every sphere. I mean, it’’s amazing how much we give the benefit   of the doubt to likable people, and how much we are willing to do   for them and how much we just naturally think good things about   them.” ’ ’   Prinstein said likability is one of ”the most valuable social   commodities” in all aspects of society. ”We should be investing   in it as much as we invest in anything else that we hope will   help our lives,” he said. ’ ”You’re an adult now, you may think, and the. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’