’  ’ ”   During his  Thursday, former FBI Director James   Comey made several remarkable claims before the Senate   Intelligence Committee: that President Trump directed him to drop   his investigation into Trump’s former national security adviser,   Michael Flynn, and that the president fired Comey in an  of the FBI’s Russia   investigation. ” ”   On Friday,  denying Comey’s allegations and accusing the   former FBI head of lying under oath. ” ”   Despite the president’s alleged attempts to stymie them, several   investigations into Russian interference in the 2016 election and   possible collusion between the Trump campaign and Russian   officials continue  —   perhaps with renewed vigor. ” ’   These are the related but separate investigations underway. ’ ’  ’ ’   After Democratic  over Comey’’s ousting and leaks about his allegations   against Trump, the Justice Department  former FBI Director Robert   Mueller, to lead the department’’s investigation into ”any links     coordination between the Russian government and   individuals associated with the campaign of President Donald   Trump.” ’ ’   Mueller  —   with the help of FBI investigators and DOJ lawyers  —     will also investigate whether any crimes, including  witness intimidation, or perjury,   were committed by anyone involved in the inquiry  —   including   Trump. ’ ”   While Mueller still technically reports to the Trump   administration (he was hired, and could be fired, by Deputy   Attorney General Rod Rosenstein) it would trigger enormous   political backlash if the DOJ were seen to be interfering in the   special counsel’s inquiry. ” ’   ”The incentives are in place for the special counsel to appear to   be conducting a thorough and   investigation,” Lisa   Kern Griffin, a professor of law at Duke, told Business Insider. ’ ”   Mueller, who is widely respected, was likely chosen for his     tenure running the FBI under both Republican and   Democratic presidents. Given that he reports to and receives   funding from the administration, there is a certain degree of   trust the public must place in Mueller’s ability to remain   independent from the president and his administration. ” ’   ”Given his qualifications, his reputation, his enormous talent,   his undisputed patriotism and the structure of the office he’’s   set up, it’’s fair to say that he’’s going to be very independent,”   Griffin said. ’ ”   But independence is not guaranteed, and whether Mueller’s   investigation is compromised in any way will not necessarily   become known to the public. ” ’   ”We certainly have no idea whether anybody behind the scenes is   telling him not to do anything, we just don’’t know,” Richard   Briffault, a professor at Columbia law school, told Business   Insider. ’ ’   ”We have to trust in his [willingness] to resign and or go public   should he feel that he is not being given adequate independence.” ’ ”   According to Griffin, there isn’t a clear way Mueller could come   forward if he experienced administration interference while   conducting the investigation. ” ’  ’ ’   If Mueller finds evidence of criminal activity, he could seek to   indict members of the Trump campaign, including, theoretically,   Trump himself. ’ ”   But an American president has never before been criminally   charged, and it’s very unlikely that situation could arise, in   part because prosecution is a function of the executive branch,   and the president runs that branch. ” ’   ”I can’’t see any circumstances in which a criminal prosecution   would be brought,” Peter Schuck, a professor of law emeritus at   Yale, told Business Insider. ’ ’   Even if the president shot someone in the street, he or she would   likely be impeached before facing criminal charges. ’ ’  ’ ”   Both the Senate and House are pursuing     investigations that cover more ground than the justice department   investigation. The congressional inquiries are looking into the   Russian interference in the 2016 election, and possible ties   between the Trump campaign and Russian officials, the   circumstances surrounding Comey’s firing, and leaks of classified   information. ” ”   While Mueller and the FBI’s investigations will be conducted   behind closed doors, the congressional investigators can hold   public hearings. ” ”   While Congress doesn’t have any power to prosecute, if the   committees uncover criminal activity, Congress can hold a vote to   impeach the president. ” ’   ”Ultimately, the president’’s jeopardy isn’’t so much legal  —   it’’s   political,” Griffin said. ’ ”   The House would vote to impeach the president, which is akin to   an accusation. Then, the house would act as the prosecution in a   senate trial. It’s up to senators to decide a president’s guilt. ” ’   But many say that without a majority of Democrats in Congress,   impeachment would be unlikely. ’ ’   ”There’’s not going to be an impeachment at this point, in this   Congress, unless fellow Republicans get really sick of him and   there’’s no sign that that’’s happening,” Charles Fried, a law   professor at Harvard and former solicitor general under President   Ronald Reagan, told Business Insider. ’ ”   Two other Senate and House committees  —   the Senate Judiciary and   House Oversight and Government Reform committees  —   are also   investigating whether Trump committed obstruction of justice when   he asked Comey to drop the FBI’s investigation into Flynn and his   subsequent firing of Comey. ” ’   Obstruction of justice occurs when someone acts with corrupt   intent while attempting to intervene in the administration of   justice. ’ ”   In addition, the committees are looking into Flynn’s ties to   foreign powers, including Russia. ” ’   Like with the intelligence committee investigations, these   inquiries could lead to more public hearings and, if Congress   concludes that Trump broke the law, it could lead to impeachment. ’ ’   Despite the hearings, revelations, and leaks, it will likely be a   long time before any conclusions are drawn from the   investigations, Griffin says. ’ ’   ”A   case of this type, even without the     dimensions, the international financial   evidence, the context of electoral politics, would ordinarily   take years for federal agents to investigate,” Griffin said,   adding that this case involves more urgency and resources than   others. ’ ’   ”It will be months, maybe even years, before they reach any   definitive conclusions.” ’ ’   But the length of the investigations could create its own   obstacle. ’ ’   ”Presumably, the White House could at some point say, ’’You’’ve had   a year, you’’ve had two years, it’’s over,’’” Briffault said. ’ ’   And the fact that so many investigations are being pursued   simultaneously will likely complicate matters. ’ ’   ”It is unfortunate because they’’ll get in each other’’s way,”   Fried said. ’ ’   Ideally, he said, there would be ”one bipartisan select committee   of congressmen and senators.” ’ ”   But Republican lawmakers are far from agreeing to the creation of   a special committee, so it’s no surprise there are so many   investigators on the Hill. ” ’   ”Everybody wants to get into the act  —   it is   Washington,” Fried said. ’ ’During his blockbuster testimony Thursday. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’