’  ’ ”   WASHINGTON (AP)  —   Attorney General Jeff Sessions, whose contacts   with Russia’s ambassador to the U. S. during the presidential   campaign have sparked questions, agreed Saturday to appear before   the Senate intelligence committee as it investigates alleged   Russian meddling in the election. ” ’   Sessions recused himself in March from a federal investigation   into contacts between Russia and the presidential campaign of   Donald Trump after acknowledging that he had met twice last year   with the Russian ambassador to the United States. He had told   lawmakers at his January confirmation hearing that he had not met   with Russians during the campaign. ’ ’   Sessions has been dogged by questions about possible additional   encounters with the ambassador, Sergey Kislyak. Senate Democrats   have raised questions about whether the men met at an April 2016   foreign policy event at the Mayflower Hotel in Washington. The   Justice Department has said that while Sessions was there, for a   speech by Trump, there were no meetings or private encounters. ’ ’   Former FBI Director James Comey raised additional questions at a   hearing on Thursday, saying that the FBI expected Sessions to   recuse himself weeks before he actually did. Comey declined to   elaborate in an open setting. ’ ’   In a letter Saturday to Sen. Richard Shelby,  . Sessions   said that he had been scheduled to discuss the Justice Department   budget before House and Senate Appropriations subcommittees but   that it had become clear some members would focus their questions   on the Russia investigation. Shelby chairs the Senate   appropriations subcommittee. ’ ’’ ’   Sessions said his decision to accept the intelligence committee’’s   invitation to appear was due in part to Comey’’s testimony. He   wrote that ”it is important that I have an opportunity to address   these matters in the appropriate forum.” He said Deputy Attorney   General Rod Rosenstein would appear before the subcommittees. ’ ”   Briefing congressional appropriators on the Justice Department’s   budget is a critical part of the attorney general’s job. The fact   that Sessions would delegate that task to his deputy showed the   Russia investigation was distracting him from his core duties. ” ’WASHINGTON (AP)  —   Attorney General Jeff. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’