’  ’ ”   SAN JUAN (Reuters)   An official count of votes for Puerto Rico’s   plebiscite on Sunday showed overwhelming support for U. S.   statehood, although adding another star to the U. S. flag would   likely face an uphill battle in Congress. ” ”   A government website for the status referendum, Puerto Rico’s   fifth since 1967, showed 97 percent of roughly 485, 000 votes   counted so far in favor of becoming the 51st U. S. state. ” ”   Votes were still being counted and the expected outcome is   unlikely to change Puerto Rico’s label as a U. S. territory, a   move that would require an act of the U. S. Congress. ” ”   Puerto Rico Governor Ricardo Rossello campaigned for the island’s   2. 2 million eligible voters to select statehood as the best   avenue to boost future growth for the struggling island. ” ’   The island has $70 billion in debt, a   poverty rate,   woefully underperforming schools, and   pension and   health systems. ’ ’’ ”   Puerto Rico’s hazy political status, dating back to its 1898   acquisition by the United States from Spain, has contributed to   the economic crisis that pushed it last month into the biggest   municipal bankruptcy in U. S. history. ” ’   ”I voted for statehood,” Armando Abreu, a    retiree,   said after voting at the Escuela Gabriela Mistral. ”Even if it’’s   still a long way off in the distance, it’’s our only hope.” ’ ’   Those in favor of statehood hope the new status would put the   island on equal standing with the 50 U. S. states, giving them   more access to federal funds and the right to vote for the U. S.   President. ’ ”   The island’s two main opposition parties boycotted the vote,   which gave Puerto Ricans three options: becoming a U. S. state;   remaining a territory; or becoming an independent nation, with or   without some continuing political association with the United   States. ” ’   The boycott raised concerns of low voter turnout. ’ ’   Puerto Rico’’s former governor Rafael Hernandez Colon said in a   statement: ”A contrived plebiscite fabricated an artificial   majority for statehood by disenfranchising hundreds of thousands   of Commonwealth supporters.” ’ ”   Rather than heading to the polls, some 500 Puerto Ricans marched   on the streets of San Juan, waving Puerto Rico’s flag and   chanting in support of independence. ” ’   ”This is a bogus plebiscite. Our future is independence. We need   to be able to decide our own fate,” said Liliana Laboy, one of   the organizers of the protest. ’ ’     ’ ’   (Reporting by Tracy Rucinski; editing by Dave Gregorio and Grant   McCool) ’ ’SAN JUAN (Reuters)   An official count of votes. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’