’  ’ ”   WASHINGTON (AP)  —   Senate Republicans and Democrats reached   agreement late Monday on a new package of sanctions on Russia   amid the firestorm over Russia’s meddling in the presidential   election and investigations into Moscow’s possible collusion with   members of President Donald Trump’s campaign. ” ’   Top lawmakers on two committees  —   Banking and Foreign Relations  —     announced the deal, which would require a congressional review if   a president attempts to ease or end current penalties. The plan   also calls for strengthening current sanctions and imposing new   ones on corrupt Russian actors, those involved in human rights   abuses and those supplying weapons to the government of Syrian   President Bashar Assad. ’ ’   Penalties also would be slapped on those responsible for   malicious cyber activity on behalf of the Russian government. ’ ’   The batch of sanctions would be added to a bill imposing   penalties on Iran that the Senate is currently debating. ’ ’   ”The amendment to the underlying Iran sanctions bill maintains   and substantially expands sanctions against the government of   Russia in response to the violation of the territorial integrity   of the Ukraine and Crimea, its brazen cyberattacks and   interference in elections, and its continuing aggression in   Syria,” said Republicans and Democrats on the committees. ’ ’  ’ ’   A procedural vote on the Russia sanctions is expected Wednesday,   and the measure is expected to get strong bipartisan support. The   legislation was worked out by Sens. Mike Crapo,   and   Sherrod Brown,   of the Banking Committee, and Sens. Bob   Corker,  . and Ben Cardin,  . of the Foreign Relations   panel. ’ ’   The legislation also allows new penalties on key elements of the   Russia economy, including mining, metals, shipping and railways. ’ ”   House and Senate committees are investigating Russia’s meddling   and potential links to the Trump campaign, with testimony   scheduled Tuesday from Attorney General Jeff Sessions. Special   Counsel Robert Mueller is conducting a separate probe. ” ’   ”By codifying existing sanctions and requiring congressional   review of any decision to weaken or lift them, we are ensuring   that the United States continues to punish President (Vladimir)   Putin for his reckless and destabilizing actions,” said Sen.   Chuck Schumer,  . Y. the top Senate Democrat. ”These additional   sanctions will also send a powerful and bipartisan statement to   Russia and any other country who might try to interfere in our   elections that they will be punished.” ’ ’WASHINGTON (AP)  —   Senate Republicans and. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’