’  ’ ”   Uber board member David Bonderman resigned from the   company’s board on Tuesday after making a sexist comment during a   company meeting earlier in the day. ” ”   Bonderman’s  which played on a stereotype that women   talk too much, came amid a discussion about the steps the     company plans to take to address complaints about   sexism and gender discrimination in its ranks. He apologized soon   after making the statement, but seemed to recognize later   that an apology wasn’t enough. ” ’   ”Today at Uber’s   meeting, I directed a comment to my   colleague and friend Arianna Huffington that was careless,   inappropriate, and inexcusable,” Bonderman said in a statement.   ”The comment came across in a way that was the opposite of what I   intended, but I understand the destructive effect it had, and I   take full responsibility for that.” ’ ’   His resignation,  will take effect   Wednesday morning.  ’ ’   In a separate statement, board member Ariana Huffington thanked   Bonderman for stepping down. ’ ’’ ’   ”I appreciate David doing the right thing for Uber at this time   of critical cultural changes at the company,” she said. ’ ”   Bonderman’s departure is only the latest bit of turmoil at   Uber. Earlier on Tuesday, the company acknowledged that CEO    and it   announced it will make  in an attempt to revamp its corporate   culture.  ” ’   Uber has been contending with a series of scandals since former   engineer Susan Fowler  accusing the company of widespread   gender discrimination and charging the company did nothing in   response to her complaints that she was sexually harassed by a   manager.  ’ ”   On Tuesday, Uber released to employees a report put together by   former US Attorney General Eric Holder. Holder and his firm   investigated the company’s workplace environment in response   to Fowler’s complaints and came up with a list of recommendations   for how Uber could improve its culture. The board was discussing   those recommendations with employees when Bonderman made his   comment.  ” ’   During the presentation, board member Ariana Huffington   announced  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’Uber board member David Bonderman resigned. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’