’  ’ ”   CEOs and senior executives of 175 of the United States’ largest   companies announced Monday that they are pledging their   organizations to diversity goals and are forming a committee to   ensure they follow through. ” ”   Signatories represent a broad range of industries and   include American Express’ Kenneth Chenault, CBS’s   Leslie Moonves, IBM’s Ginni Rometty, PepsiCo’s Indra Nooyi, and   Walmart’s Doug McMillon. One   on the list is PwC’s US   chairman Tim Ryan, who spearheaded the initiative  —     —   a year ago. ” ”   Ryan is joined in the initiative’s steering committee by the CEOs   of Accenture, BCG, Deloitte US, the Executive Leadership Council,   General Atlantic, KPMG US, New York Life, and Procter &   Gamble, as well as EY’s US chairman, Steve Howe. ” ’   The CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion members have agreed to   three actions: build trust within the organization through   ”complex, and sometimes difficult conversations about diversity   and inclusion,” develop and implement unconscious bias   training for all employees, and share all best practices as well   as failures in this area with all members of the initiative. The   steering committee is planning on checking in monthly and will be   holding a summit later this year. ’ ’   Ryan told Business Insider that the seed of the idea was planted   when, during his first week as senior partner at PwC late July, a    amid a peaceful   protest in the city against the police killings of     men Alton Sterling in Louisiana and Philando   Castile in Minnesota. As Ryan prepared for his new   leadership role within the company, he began thinking about how   the intense racial tension in America was affecting his   employees. ’ ’’ ’   On July 21, he led a long internal discussion on race. ’ ’   ”That went very well, but as I spent more and more time with our   people, they challenged me, and asked, ’’What are we going to do   outside of PwC? ’’” he said. ”It caused me to think a lot. I   stepped back, and I asked myself, ’’What is our responsibility? ’’” ’ ’   He reached out to several CEOs for their ideas, including his   friend Ted Mathas of New York Life. ”I said, ’’Well,   interestingly, we’’ve been looking for what more can we do beyond   what we’’re doing today? ’’  ’ ’   Ryan proposed formalizing an initiative that would publicly   commit themselves and their companies to making changes, and   Mathas was on board. ’ ”   Mathas said that he has seen within New York Life the ways that   having candid conversations around diversity can not only lead to   practices that result in serving their customers better, but   build trust among a company’s leadership. ” ”   He gave an example of such a conversation he held last year, in   which one of NYL’s top executives said that every day as he walks   through Penn Station on his commute to work, he notices police   watch him especially carefully, given that he’s a black man with   a large build. ” ’   ”I sort of get this when I read about this in the paper,” said   Mathas, who is white. But he said it didn’’t connect with him   on a personal level until he saw that these issues were quietly   weighing heavy on the mind of one of his leaders.  ’ ’   ”That, for me, is exactly one of the reasons why we have to have   some of these conversations,” he said. ’ ’   Another CEO Ryan recruited was Ron Parker, of the Executive   Leadership Council, an organization started in 1986 to   promote the development of   corporate   leadership. ’ ’   Parker, who joined the ELC after a long career at PepsiCo, said   the CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion is notable for the   line of communication it is opening among leaders of competing   organizations. ’ ’   ”On a day to day basis, they’’re in hand to hand combat,” he said.   ”They don’’t usually share ideas around best practices.” ’ ’   He said that it is not simply a press release for companies, and   that the signatories will be working together on shared goals. ’ ’   ”The CEOs, and that’’s very important, are the ones who signed   onto this pledge,” he said. ”Not their head of human resources,   not their chief diversity officer, not their chief communications   officer. These are the kinds of leaders who realized they have   the responsibility to assume leadership around that which is   impeding our companies and communities, to advance and to grow.” ’ ’    ’ ’CEOs and senior executives of 175 of the United. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’