’  ’ ’   It started with a math test. ’ ’   I was in the eighth grade, sitting at my assigned seat with a   pencil and a green sheet of paper in front of me  —   it was the   class final. ’ ’   Suddenly, my mind went blank. The words and numbers on the page   blurred together and became meaningless. I froze with fear. My   heart raced. What was happening to me? ’ ’   With all the effort I could muster, I raised a shaky hand to ask   for the bathroom pass. As soon as I got there, I started crying   uncontrollably. Between the sobs, I vomited into the toilet. ’ ’   Although I didn’’t know it then, what happened that day would be   the beginning of a painful and confusing series of severe bouts  —     ”episodes,” in psychiatric parlance  —   of anxiety and depression   that would land me in a handful of hospitals and treatment   centers. ’ ”   Eventually, I’d be prescribed antidepressants, the drugs that I’m   now convinced saved my life. But the road to medication was   rocky. If it weren’t for a handful of truly caring doctors  —   and,   of course, the health insurance that made the drugs affordable  —     I probably would never have found them. ” ’   This is one of the reasons I find articles that belittle the   condition, like a recent New York Times story, irksome. The   article, published in the Times’’ style section with the title    describes anxiety as ”a shared cultural   experience” that is the result of external factors   ranging from a recent election to increased social media use.   While feelings of stress and tension may be more prevalent   today, these feelings are not tantamount to mental illness. ’ ’   In reality,  may suffer from real anxiety   disorders, and studies suggest many of them have a . I certainly   did. Articles like these could make that even harder.  ’ ’   When my anxiety first started cropping up, my parents wanted me   to go a ”natural” route  —   in other words, they wanted me to stick   to talk therapy with counselors and avoid medication. ’ ’  ’ ’   At the time, their choice made sense. As many as  but studies   suggested as many as . ’ ”   But despite weekly sessions of therapy, my panic attacks got so   bad that I couldn’t sleep or go to school. I had nightmares. I   thought of every   scenario that might happen and   lived as if they were imminent. I started obsessing about   everything, from the tests I might fail, to the friends who might   abandon me, to the food that might make me fat. I contemplated   suicide. My weight dropped to 90 pounds. ” ’   Concerned, my parents took me to dozens of doctors, who tested me   for everything. When no results turned up, my mom took me to see   a psychiatrist. After two or three   sessions, I was   diagnosed as anorexic ”with panic” and given a prescription for   Klonopin. ’ ”   Klonopin is   —   it’s a benzodiazepine like   Xanax, the drug the Times article says has replaced   antidepressants like Prozac or Lexapro as America’s trendy drug   of choice. ” ”   But Klonopin didn’t alleviate my symptoms; instead, I felt like   it made me numb. Because many people who suffer from anxiety  —     which the NIMH says is   —   also suffer from     mental illnesses like depression, the medication that   works best may not actually be an   drug. ” ’  ’ ’   One day, I refused to go to my therapy appointment. I cried and   told my mom that I was broken and there was nothing that could be   done.  ’ ’   So we started over. I stopped seeing the psychiatrist and began   seeing other doctors. An endocrinologist put me on my first   antidepressant  —   a . Lexapro belongs to a group of   antidepressants called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors,   or SSRIs, which are thought to work by amplifying the activity of   the chemical serotonin in the brain. ’ ’   The way we’’d know if the medication was working, my doctor   told me, was if I didn’’t notice any big changes in my feelings or   behavior. At some point (I can’’t say exactly when) I started to   feel like the world seemed a little less dark. It was as if I’’d   been seeing everything in front of me with a   heavily   vignetted filter, and someone had gently peeled it off. I didn’’t   want to die, and I didn’’t feel numb. When my doctor asked how I   was doing, all I could tell her was, ”I feel ok.” She smiled. ’ ’   Studies suggest this can happen for many people with depression   and anxiety . ’ ’  ’ ’   Slowly but surely, I started to get better. The panic attacks   stopped, and I gained back some weight. I made friends. I started   eating real food. I excelled in school. I went to college. I   developed a support network of people I could trust and talk to.   I moved across the country. I went to graduate school. I started   a career. ’ ’   I did absolutely none of it on my own. ’ ’   I kept working with a therapist who was trained in cognitive   behavioral therapy, a type of psychotherapy that involves   recognizing negative thought patterns and coming up with   solutions to overcome them. I saw a psychiatrist who managed my   medication, went to yoga classes several times   each week, and stayed close to the friends and family that   had helped me through the bad times. ’ ’   Research suggests that each of these parts of my recovery can   help alleviate the symptoms of depression.  with a reduction in many depressive   symptoms. So have  and . ’ ’   Antidepressants were a tool that helped me find normal. They   lifted a heavy blanket of anxiety and depression that had   previously made everything seem like an impossible chore. ’ ’   Had my condition been merely a ”sociological condition . .. that   feeds on alarmist CNN graphics and metastasizes through social   media,” as the Times article suggests, I doubt medication  —     whether it had been Prozac or Xanax  —   would have had such an   impact. ’ ’It started with a math test. I was in the. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’