’  ’ ”   Attorney General Jeff Sessions told the Senate Intelligence   Committee on Tuesday that he couldn’t recall ever raising   concerns about Russia’s interference in the 2016 election in the   meetings he had with Russia’s ambassador to the US Sergey   Kislyak last year. ” ’   Sessions has said that those meetings were in his capacity as a   member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. But he demurred   when Republican Sen. John McCain if he had ever raised   concerns with Kislyak about ”Russia’’s interference in our   electoral process.” ’ ’  ’ ’   By the time Sessions met with Kislyak at the Republican National   Convention in July, cyber security researchers  that Russia had hacked the Democratic National   Committee. And by the time Sessions met with Kislyak at his   office in September,   Barack Obama  on the Russian hacking campaign and  what   could have motivated it. ’ ’   When McCain,  asked whether Sessions had   ever  ’ ’   The exchange raises questions about why Sessions, who showed   little interest in Russia while he was a senator, met with   Kislyak at all during the election. ’ ’   Sessions did not appear interested in foreign policy at all,   according to officials who spoke to . A senior Republican staffer was reportedly   incredulous when asked whether Sessions thought of himself as a   foreign policy specialist and met regularly with ambassadors   while he was a senator. ’ ”   “Is that a serious question?” the staffer told the publication.   “He’s clueless. ”  ” ’  ’ ’   “I don’t recall you as being particularly vocal on such issues,”   McCain said. ’ ’   Sessions, who said earlier appeared confused, choosing instead to   respond to McCain’’s earlier question about whether he ever   discussed ”  security issues” with Kislyak. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”And his response was?” McCain asked. ’ ’   ”I don’’t recall,” Sessions said. ’ ’  ’ ”   It was still unclear by the end of the nearly   hearing   why Sessions met with Kislyak privately if not   to address reports that Russia was engaged in a   hacking campaign to undermine Democrats and, specifically, the   party’s presidential nominee, Hillary Clinton. ” ”   Sessions’ lack of interest in the Russian meddling seems to have   mirrored    ” ”   Former FBI Director James Comey, in a   moment   during his Senate Intelligence Committee testimony last week,   said Trump never once asked him about Russia’s interference in   the US election as it related to national security during their   nine conversations before he fired Comey in early May. ” ’   ”Did the president, in any of those interactions that you’’ve   shared with us today, ask you what you should be doing, or what   our government should be doing, or the intelligence community, to   protect America against Russian interference in our election   system?” Democratic Sen. Martin Heinrich asked Comey. ’ ’   ”I don’’t recall a conversation like that,” Comey said. ’ ’   Heinrich pressed: ”Never?” ’ ’   ”No,” Comey said. ”Not with President Trump. I attended a fair   number of meetings on that with President Obama.” ’ ”   Comey later said he didn’t recall ever having a conversation with   Trump that suggested the president was taking the Russia threat   seriously. ” ’   ”I don’’t remember any conversations with him at all about that,”   Comey said. ’ ’Attorney General Jeff Sessions told the Senate. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’