’  ’ ’   Apple is taking a risky  —   not to mention controversial  —   step to   try to reverse its ailing fortunes in China. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Content creators are huge things in China. By taxing 30% on   their tipping income, Apple is expecting to see a big boost in   its revenue in China in the near term,” said Kitty Fok, managing   director of IDC China. ’ ’   ”However, it may not be a wise move in the long run because these   content creators, who are influential in China’s virtual world,   may discourage people from buying Apple’s iPhones because the new   policy will dampen their income.” ’ ’   In its recently updated App Store policy, the company has for the   first time made the use of tipping functions permissible. But it   wants a 30% cut of any income from tips received by the   providers, who are, in China’s case, millions of     digital content creators，who make a fortune by live streaming   their singing and dancing, posting articles of their opinions or   sharing their life experience and knowledge online. ’ ’   Apple stipulated in its latest App Store policy late last week   that apps may use and can only ”use   purchase currencies to   enable customers to tip digital content creators in the app”   which means that   tipping now officially falls under the   category of   purchasing, a service for which the     company charges 30% on all transactions. Apple   was not immediately available for comment. ’ ’  ’ ’   The move has already provoked a certain amount of outrage from   China’s technology community. Luo Yonghao, chief executive of   smartphone maker Smartisan in China, in an online post on Sunday,   described it as ”disgusting”. Luo is also an internet celebrity   with 14 million followers on Sina Weibo, the Chinese version of   Twitter. ’ ’   The   would be the last thing Apple wants in China   where it has seen a drop in shipments of its iPhone as it lost   market share to local smartphone makers. ’ ’   The tipping function is rarely used in the West, but it is   commonplace for China’s more than 700 million smartphone users,   who are increasingly comfortable tipping a small amount of money    —   normally in the range of 5 yuan up to 200 yuan  —   to show their   support or express their gratitude when watching or reading   something they like online. ’ ’   Nearly 100 million people paid for what they read online in 2016   and about 280 million said in the same year that they were   willing to pay for the music they listen to online, according to   iiMedia Research. In China’s booming live streaming sector, a top   streamer can make millions of yuan a year, mostly via     tipping from fans. ’ ’  ’ ’   The   tipping business in China has proved lucrative. Many   of the country’s most popular apps, from Tencent’s ubiquitous   WeChat to news and information app Toutiao and Zhihu, the Chinese   version of Quora, support and thrive through their tipping   functions but are reluctant to give Apple a cut. ’ ’   WeChat, which has about 900 million monthly active users in   China, has since April disabled its tipping function for iPhone   users because it failed to reach an agreement on the tipping   issue after lengthy negotiations with the American tech   leviathan. ’ ’   ”WeChat has been in close contact with Apple. We will inform the   public as soon as we have more information,” said WeChat in a   statement on Monday when asked about the likely impact of the new   App store policy. ’ ’   However, some firms, such as the   Zhihu, have   decided to compromise. The company said in a statement that it   will introduce Apple’s   tipping feature in its latest   version of the app. ’ ’   The new Apple policy only affects content creators’ income made   via the tipping of iPhone users. The tips of Android phone users   are not bound by the rule. ’ ’Apple is taking a risky  —   not to mention. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’