’  ’ ”   There was a lot Jeff Sessions couldn’t quite guarantee Tuesday. ” ’   The attorney general  in his blockbuster hearing   that he couldn’’t ”recall” a particular detail. That was in   addition to eight instances in which he did not ”know” the   answer to a question posed by a member of the panel, five   instances in which he did not ”believe,” four times he did   not ”think,” and twice each that he did not ”have” or ”remember”   what the senator in question was looking for. ’ ”   So naturally, the most important takeaway  was not  it’s   what he did not say. ” ”   On several occassions, Sessions refused to answer questions   related to his private conversations with President Donald Trump,   including conversations about FBI Director James Comey’s   firing, the possibility of presidential pardons for Trump   associates, and whether Trump had expressed frustration with   Sessions’   recusal from any   investigations involving the Trump campaign. If these   conversations did occur, they could be central to a possible      case. ” ’   Sessions’’ rationale for his refusal to detail such conversations   was his ”duty to protect confidential communications” he’’s had   with the president and a ”longstanding Department of Justice   practice” not to disclose such information.  Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats and   National Security Agency Director Mike Rogers gave similar   explanations before the Senate Intelligence Committee. ’ ’   Several senators zeroed in on that explanation  —   Democratic Sens.   Martin Heinrich of New Mexico and Kamala Harris of California and   Independent Sen. Angus King of Maine  —   in their lines of   questioning, hammering the attorney general on the legitimacy of   his rationale. The center of their argument was simple: the   president had not invoked executive privilege, Sessions could not   on his own invoke executive privilege, so how could Sessions not   answer the questions? ’ ’   ”You’’re impeding this investigation,” Heinrich said. ”So my   understanding of the legal standard is that you either answer the   question. That’’s the best outcome. You say this is classified,   can’’t answer it here. I’’ll answer it in closed session. That’’s   bucket number two. Bucket number three is to say ’’I’’m invoking   executive privilege. ’’ There is no appropriateness bucket. It is   not a legal standard.” ’ ”   Sessions said it would be inappropriate to do so without giving   Trump the chance to review whether he wanted to invoke executive   privilege, a position that a number of legal experts told   Business Insider would not pass muster if Congress really wanted   to push the White House. And when pressed on the specifics of the   Justice Department policy he was citing to sidestep some of the   senators’ questions, Sessions could not answer much at all. ” ’   ”Can you tell me what are these   DOJ rules that   protect conversations made in the executive without invoking   executive privilege?” Heinrich asked, later repeating the   question a second time. ”Can you share those policies with us?   Are they written down at the Department of Justice?” ’ ’   ”I believe they are,” Sessions responded. ’ ’   Sessions could not, however, detail the particulars of the   supposed DOJ policy he was referring to. ’ ’   Harris asked about the   policy, which Sessions   said ”goes beyond just the attorney general.” ’ ’   ”Is that policy in writing somewhere?” Harris asked. ’ ’   ”I think so,” Sessions repsonded. ’ ’  ’ ’   Legal experts who spoke to Business Insider said Sessions has   essentially invented a ”brand new privilege” and, if the   administration is able to have its officials continue to use this   rationale during testimony, it would lead to a code of ”executive   silence.” ’ ’   ”Sessions’’ rationale was completely lacking in any legal basis,”   Adam Winkler, a law professor at UCLA, told Business Insider in   an email. ’ ’   ”There are privileges, such as executive privilege and the   privilege against   but Sessions was clear that   he was not invoking these well established rights,” he continued.   ”Instead, he was asserting some brand new privilege of his own   invention, with no legal support whatsoever. The question is when   will Republicans in Congress stand up to the president and stop   this lawlessness.” ’ ’   Robert Chesney, a University of Texas law professor and a     of the Lawfare blog, said he was unsure of what   Sessions ”has in mind” with his explanation. ’ ’   ”Barring a claim of executive privilege, it’’s unclear how any   mere departmental policy position would cut any ice when Congress   seeks testimony from an executive branch official,” he told   Business Insider in an email. ’ ”   Congress’ options in this matter are simple, experts said. ” ”   Congress can subpoena Sessions to answer the questions members   laid out. That would essentially force the White House’s hand to   either invoke executive privilege, and possibly go to court over   whether the invocation was proper, or decide against invoking   privilege, in which case Sessions could be held in   contempt of Congress if he chose not to answer. ” ’   Democrats such as Sen. Ron Wyden of Oregon and Rep. Adam Schiff   of California have already started homing in on that strategy   following the testimony. ’ ’   Republican Sen. Richard Burr, chairman of the Senate Intelligence   Committee, concluded the hearing by asking Sessions if he could   ”go back and work with the White House” to see if he can provide   answers to any questions to the committee in writing ”if there   are any areas of questions that they feel comfortable with you   answering,” which is far from signaling the potential for a   subpoena. ’ ’   As Alan Dershowitz, the renowned attorney and professor emeritus   at Harvard Law School, told Business Insider in an email,   Congress ”can compel” Sessions to answer the questions and   override any Justice Department policy, so long as privilege has   not been invoked. He added that Trump would have to invoke   executive privilege if Congress were to subpoena Sessions for the   questions. ’ ’   But Jed Shugerman, a law professor at Fordham University, said he   believes ”it’’s too late” for Trump to invoke executive privilege,   adding that he would argue Trump has already waived his right to   invoke. ’ ’   ”Because President Trump was on notice for all of these questions   when Comey appeared,” he told Business Insider. ”President Trump   failed to invoke the privilege in time for Comey. I could make   arguments that he waived it anyway. The fact is that President   Trump was on ample and obvious notice for all of these questions   Sessions was asked. And by failing to invoke it before 2:30 p. m.   he has permanently waived his privilege on these questions. So   you can’’t go back, you can unring the bell.” ’ ’   ”The rationale that it could be invoked at any time, it can be   invoked unilaterally by the official without the president” is an   improper reading of executive privilege doctrine, he said, adding   that Sessions was ”incoherent” and had ”no arguments” to defend   his refusal to answer. ’ ’   ”He had ample time to prepare for this, and he was incoherent,   and he did not give competent answers to the legal questions that   everyone knew he would have,” Shugerman said. ’ ’  ’ ’   Citing the exchanges with King, Harris, and Heinrich, Shugerman   said Sessions had ”exposed” himself by failing to give ”effective   answers” to explain his position. ’ ’   ”What’’s really was stunning was it’’s obvious that this question   was going to be one of the central questions of today’’s   hearings,” he said. ”And so for the attorney general to appear   and talk about DOJ policy in this completely ambiguous way,   completely opened himself up to Kamala Harris’’ excellent   questions.” ’ ’   ”The idea that executive privilege exists out there in a floating   way to be invoked at some point in the future, it makes executive   silence become the policy,” he added. ”Because at some point in   the next three and a half years, Trump might decide to invoke it,   thus any executive official can just decide on their own to   refuse to answer questions would turn the privilege into a   permanent executive code of silence because it could be invoked   one day. That is baseless. And absurd.” ’ ’   Shugerman said that, in addition to issuing a written subpoena,   the committee can invite Sessions to provide the answers in a   closed session. The professor added that other committees  —   such   as the Senate Judiciary Committee  —   can subpoena Sessions to give   answers to the same questions. ’ ”   And on top of all that, there is special counsel Robert Mueller’s   investigation. The former FBI director is likely to ask Sessions   similar questions under oath in the course of the probe. That   probe is now likely looking into possible obstruction of justice   on Trump’s part, as Comey’s testimony from a week earlier alluded   to. ” ’   ”So, anyone who thinks Sessions survived and it is over, that   misunderstands how many other steps” there are, Shugerman said.   ”The   are problematic.” ’ ’   Other experts said that Sessions was ”behaving in a way that is   consistent” with the way the executive branch has traditionally   viewed executive privilege, noting that there is a longstanding   dispute between Congress and the executive branch on executive   privilege doctrine. Because Trump had not invoked privilege ahead   of time, officials like Sessions, Coats, and Rogers enter these   hearings ”with a really bad hand,” Andrew Wright, former   associate counsel to President Barack Obama and Vice President Al   Gore, told Business Insider. ’ ’   Wright, now a professor at Savannah Law School, said that   President Ronald Reagan’’s   memo lays out some of what   Sessions was arguing before the committee. In a ”traditional   fight,” Wright said Congress would then subpoena Sessions for the   answers. ’ ’   ”We’’re at the white hot public intensity moment, but none of the   other steps have been taken, right?” Wright said. ”Sessions came   in on a volunteer basis, he hasn’’t been threatened with contempt.   But make no mistake about it, every other dispute in the past,   Congress has been saying you’’ve committed a crime the whole time”   by not answering. ’ ’   Wright, who’’s been on the other side of the aisle in instances   such as the Operation Fast and Furious ordeal and former Attorney   General Eric Holder being subpoenaed by Congress for documents   related to it, said Congress ”needs to enforce its prerogatives   here.” ’ ’   ”If Congress wants this information, by all means, criticize away   about the executive branch not having its act together,” he said.   ”But you’’ve got to subpoena this information, and you’’ve got to   threaten contempt if you don’’t get it. Because otherwise, you’’re   going to let the executive branch away without giving a   legitimate legal position and allowing these witnesses to just   have to suffer through awkwardness but not actually come to   grounds.” ’ ’   But former assistant US Attorney and CNN senior legal analyst   Jeffrey Toobin doubts that the Republicans will see any benefit   in issuing those subpoenas. ’ ’   ”You won’’t have these members going to court to get these   administration officials to testify on these conversations with   the president,” he said on CNN Tuesday night. ”I think that’’s the   end of the matter.” ’ ”There was a lot Jeff Sessions couldn’t quite. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’