’  ’ ’   A gunman opened fire inside a UPS warehouse in San Francisco on   Wednesday, killing at least three people and injuring two more   before fatally shooting himself. ’ ”   The gunman was wielding an assault pistol and one other firearm,   according to San Francisco Police Department Sgt. Toney Chaplin.   Police did not reveal the gunman’s identity, but UPS confirmed   that he was an employee. ” ’   Police told San Francisco General Hospital to prepare for as many   as six victims, including the suspect. ’ ’   ”It’’s fluid right now,” hospital spokesman Brent Andrew told the   . ”We’’ve accepted some and we’’re   expecting more.” ’ ”   Gunfire broke out inside the   building around 9 a. m.   local time, a witness told the Chronicle. Several employees,   wearing matching brown uniforms, fled to the building’s rooftop   parking lot with their arms raised. ” ’   Other witnesses described two bodies covered in yellow tarp in   the street outside the facility. ’ ’  ’ ’   Chaplin said police were interviewing ”dozens” of witnesses to   establish a timeline of the shooting and a possible motive for   the gunman. The incident was not related to terrorism, he said. ’ ’   He declined to disclose the identities of the victims. ’ ’   About 350 people work at the UPS facility, a package delivery   center and sorting hub, the company said. ’ ’   Authorities instructed residents to avoid the scene of the   shooting near the Bayshore Freeway in the Potrero Hill   neighborhood, about 2. 5 miles outside downtown San Francisco,   according to . They lifted the restrictions around   11:30 a. m. local time. ’ ’   Police also reportedly blocked off streets surrounding the   hospital and were diverting motorists away from the building. ’ ’   San Francisco city officials said a family assistance center was   opened at 100 Kansas Street for relatives seeking help related to   the incident. ’ ’ ’ ’  PIO is responding out to the scene. Media staging area will be at 17th and Potrero Ave.  ’ ’  is asking people in the area to shelter in place. SFPD will advise when the shelter in place has been lifted. ’t’t’ ’   UPS addressed the shooting in a  published on its website: ’ ’ ”UPS confirms there was a shooting incident involving 4     employees within the company’s facility in San Francisco     earlier this morning. Local law enforcement are conducting an     investigation. We cannot provide information as to the identity     of persons involved at this time, pending the police     investigation. We understand that there are potentially     multiple deaths, although some individuals were transported to     the hospital and we are unsure of their status at this     time. ’ ’ The company is saddened and deeply concerned about affected     employees, family members and the community we share. Our     thoughts and prayers are with all those touched by this     incident. To assist our employees during this time, UPS has     made professional counseling available.” ’ ’A gunman opened fire inside a UPS warehouse in. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’