’   A key predictor of the health of the American economy is inching   closer to signaling a recession. ’ ”   The indicator in question is the US Treasury yield curve, a   measure of the gap between   and   interest rates.   When it is steep  —   meaning it costs more to borrow money for the   long term  —   that’s a good sign investors expect a quickly growing   economy. ” ”   A flattening one suggests a slowing one. That’s what’s occurring   now. ” ”   The spread between the yields on   and   Treasurys   fell to 79 basis points, or 0. 79% after Wednesday’s   disappointing  and    data. The spread is currently within a few hundredths of a   percentage point of being the tightest it has been since 2007. ” ’   Perhaps more notably, it is on a path to ”inverting”  —   meaning it   would cost more to borrow for the short term than the long term  —     for the first time since the months leading up to the financial   crisis. ’ ”   An inversion would most likely be a signal that a recession is   imminent. An inverted yield curve has a  according to   RBC’s Jonathan Golub. You can see this in the chart below  —   the   shaded areas are recessions. ” ’  ’ ’   On Wednesday, in an indication that policy could tighten further,   the Federal Reserve  for the fourth time since   the financial crisis and  to unwind its massive $4. 5 trillion balance   sheet. ’ ’   The Fed also signaled that it remains committed to its plan for   gradual   increases. The Federal Open Market   Committee said on Wednesday that it ”continues to expect that,   with gradual adjustments in the stance of monetary policy,   economic activity will expand at a moderate pace, and labor   market conditions will strengthen somewhat further.” ’ ”   A further tightening of policy would most likely cause the yield   curve to flatten even more, and possibly invert. That’s because   Fed rate hikes cause the front end of the curve to rise faster   than the long end. ” ’  ’ ’   So where is the yield curve going from here? ’ ’   A basic technical analysis shows that a double top has formed   over the past six years or so and suggests the yield curve could   flatten to about   basis points. ’ ’   And if history is any guide, this would seem to set up the next   recession. ’ ’  ’ ’A key predictor of the health of the American. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’