’  ’ ”   President Donald Trump’s latest financial disclosure showed that   the general election campaign and early months of his presidency   have been pretty good for his prominent businesses. ” ”   The disclosure,  showed that many of Trump’s   marquee properties, golf clubs, and resorts saw significant   income growth from the disclosures he    which came early in his presidential bid, and 2016,  financial disclosure form as the primary campaign had   come to a near conclusion. ” ” Trump   reported more than $37 million in income from his    club   in Florida, the resort most visited by Trump on his weekends.   That’s an increase of nearly $8 million from the 2016 filing and   roughly $22 million from the 2015 edition. The club doubled its   initiation fee after Trump’s electoral victory in November,   increasing the cost to $200, 000. ” ”   Trump’s Bedminster, New Jersey golf club  —   another Trump property   where the president has spent a number of weekends as president  —     was listed as receiving roughly $20 million in income in the   latest filing, on par with its total from the 2016 report but up   more than $3. 5 million from the 2015 filing, which was   composed of figures from before Trump’s presidential bid. ” ”   Like Bedminster, many of Trump’s golf clubs showed modest growth   during the   between his first and most recent filings. ” ’’ ”   For instance, his Jupiter, Florida golf club had an increase in   revenue from $12. 4 million in 2015 to $20. 1 million in Trump’s   most recent filing. His Doral, Florida golf club  —   arguably the   most prominent of Trump’s golf holdings  —   saw its income increase   from $49. 4 million in 2015 to $115. 8 million in the Friday   filing, although that was actually a decrease of more than $16   million from its income earnings in the previous filing. ” ”   The Trump Corporation, the president’s   management   company, nearly tripled its income from a year prior. The 2017   report showed that the management company earned more than $18   million in income, compared to roughly $6. 5 million from one year   ago. His  roughly $20 million in income since opening last   September. ” ”   Trump has also seen a  in   income from book royalties since he began campaigning in    . While his initial report showed royalties totaling, at   a maximum, just more than $165, 000, that maximum total increased   to more than $6. 16 million in last year’s filing and more than   $7. 06 million in Friday’s edition. ” ’   ”President Trump welcomed the opportunity to voluntarily file his   personal financial disclosure form; while this filing is   voluntary (as no report was due until May 2018) it has been   certified by the Office of Government Ethics pursuant to its   normal procedures,” White House press secretary Sean Spicer said   in a Friday statement. ’ ”   The president has stepped back from the Trump Organization,   turning over control to his adult sons Donald Trump Jr. and Eric   Trump, in addition to a top Trump Organization executive.   However, the president did not place the assets into a blind   trust or divest from his business interests, a move that many   ethics experts had deemed necessary for the president to avoid   conflicts of interests.    Trump has gone as far as having Donald Jr. and Eric give updates   on the company’s finances. ” ”President Donald Trump’s latest financial. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’