’  ’ ’   CNN correspondent Jim Acosta blasted the White House on Monday   for holding an   press conference that news outlets were   not permitted to record. ’ ”   Speaking to CNN’s Brooke Baldwin after the briefing, Acosta   lashed out at press secretary Sean Spicer, and questioned why he   and other reporters bothered attending in the first place. ” ’   ”The White House press secretary is getting to a point, Brooke,   where he’’s just kind of useless,” Acosta said. ”If he can’’t come   out and answer the questions, and they’’re just not going to do   this on camera or audio, why are we even having these briefings   or these gaggles in the first place?” ’ ”   Acosta pointed to multiple recent instances in which Spicer has   declined to answer questions about President Donald Trump’s   position on climate change, leading Baldwin to wonder aloud if   Spicer is even having conversations with the president about the   subject. ” ’   ”It’’s a really good question, Brooke, and it’’s a question that I   would ask, but unfortunately at this White House we wouldn’’t have   the video or audio to show you the answer to that question   because of the stonewalling we’’re getting over here,” Acosta   said. ’ ”   Acosta then linked Monday’s   press briefing to Trump’s   reluctance to hold press conferences  —   he’s held a handful of   brief joint press conferences with foreign leaders, but only one   on his own since becoming president in January. ” ’   ”I don’’t know why everybody is going along with this,” Acosta   said. ”It just doesn’’t make any sense to me, and it just feels   like we’’re sort of slowly but surely being dragged into what is a   new normal in this country where the president of the United   States of America is allowed to insulate himself from answering   hard questions.” ’ ’   The commentary echoed points Acosta made on Twitter during   Monday’’s briefing, in which he again accused the White House of   ”stonewalling” and bemoaned what he saw as ”a suppression of   information.” ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tThe Spicer    audio gaggle has begun. I can’t show you a pic of Sean. So here is a look at some new socks I bought over the wknd  ” ’ ’t’t’tMake no mistake about what we are all witnessing. This is a WH that is stonewalling the news media. Hiding behind no   audio gaggles’t’t’ ’ ’t’t’tThere is a suppression of information going on at this WH that would not be tolerated at a city council mtg or press conf with a state gov. ’t’t’ ’ ’t’t’tCall me old fashioned but I think the White House of the United States of America should have the backbone to answer questions on camera. ’t’t’ ”   Spicer’s   press gaggle coincided with reports that he   is  for his own replacement to take over the   briefings. ” ’ ’ ’“The White House Press Secretary is getting to a point where he is kind of useless”   ’ ’CNN correspondent Jim Acosta blasted the White. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’