’’ ’US Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton raised $55 million in the last three months of 2015, her campaign said on Friday.’ ’The latest haul for Clinton, 68, brings her 2015   total to $112 million, giving her one of the   campaign treasuries in the race for the November 2016 US presidential elections.’ ’”At the beginning of this campaign, Hillary Clinton set a goal of $100 million in primary contributions for 2015 and blew past that goal, raising more than $112 million in primary money for the year,” her campaign said in a statement.’ ’It said she had raised $37 million for the primary campaign, the most for any   in a   year, and $18 million for the Democratic Party in the fourth quarter.’ ’Clinton has prided herself on raising funds from women and donors of small amounts. In the most recent quarter, 94% of the money raised was in donations of $100 or less, her campaign said.’ ”The most recent filing comes just weeks before the     ballots will be cast in the Democratic nominating contest, and Clinton’s latest grab provides a   cushion of support as she battles for support in key   states.” ”Clinton’s   repository reflects a heightened confidence in the Democratic  ’s electability, having spent the summer months dogged by controversy surrounding her use of a private email server during her time as US secretary of state under President Barack Obama.” ’Clinton, who has led the Democratic pack with little interruption since her announcement of candidacy in April, spent the summer months battling accusations of inappropriate use of a personal email server during her time as secretary of state, throwing an unexpected wrench in what was initially seen as a clear path to the nomination.’ ’But following a marathon,   hearing on the   ramifications of her use of the personal server, Clinton emerged from the scandal relatively unscathed, and her campaign reported its most lucrative   hour in the hour after the hearing.’ ”According to a   survey that ended December 24, Clinton leads the Democratic pack with 60% of possible support in the nominating contest. Bernie Sanders received 28% support, and former Gov. Martin O’Malley of Maryland finished third with less than 4% possible support.” ’ ’t’t’t94% of our fourth quarter donations were $100 or less, and more than 60% of donors were women. ’t’t’