’’ ”I don’t believe in New Year’s resolutions.” ”But 10 years ago today, I changed something. And that change turned out to be one of the best things I’ve ever done.” ’I started exercising regularly.’ ”At the time, I didn’t think of myself as particularly lazy or out of shape. I was never a jock, but I was a competitive swimmer until my junior year of high school. I skied in the winter and played a lot of pickup games in the neighborhood where I grew up, mostly street football and basketball.” ’As I got older, most of that went away, and I started spending a lot more time sitting at a desk. But I still did a lot of hiking, learned to scuba dive, and bought a bike, and used it from time to time . .. that kind of thing. I thought I was in OK shape.’ ”But on New Year’s Day, 2006, I woke up feeling fat and bloated and gross.” ’So my wife suggested I go join a gym.’ ”A gym? I was never a gym person. I didn’t like the whole culture, the weird nutritional additives, the crash diets, the mirrors everywhere. And what were all those machines? I didn’t know how to use them and thought I’d hurt myself or look like an idiot.” ”But it was New Year’s Day  —   a day for changes  —   so I sucked up my pride and went down to one of the big chain gyms in downtown Seattle and signed up. I even got a few sessions with a personal trainer.” ”At first, it sucked. I was in horrible shape! I couldn’t lift any weight at all. My chest burned after five minutes on the  . I sweated a ton, which was uncomfortable. I didn’t have the right clothes. My feet hurt. I hated the way I looked in the mirror. It was really hard waking up in the morning and driving downtown when it was still dark outside.” ’But I kept at it. Day after day after day. It took a full six months before I felt comfortable and over a year before it became a truly consistent habit.’ ”I’ve now gone to the gym at least three times a week, for at least 45 minutes, almost every single week for the past 10 years. The only exceptions have been when I was sick, hurt, or moving.” ’Here are some things that have changed:’ ’More subtly, my outlook has changed. When things go wrong  —   as they inevitably do  —   I look to fix them rather than fretting about them. I whine less. I talk less, and listen more. I look more to the future and less to the past.’ ’Some of this might just be a byproduct of growing older. But I think that feeling good and comfortable in my own body has helped.’ ’’ ”That’s not to say I’m in perfect shape. I still eat too much. My stomach still sticks out a little, though it’s not as big as it used to be. I know I should work out for longer, more often. But overall, I feel a lot better now, physically and mentally, at the age of 46, than I did in my late 20s and early 30s.” ’Everybody has a preferred way to exercise  —   the point is to do it.’ ”I like going to a gym because it’s a separate location away from my home and because it forces me to devote a short period of time to real, intensive exercise. I can tell myself I’m going to do a big hike this weekend, or walk up the mountain behind my house every few days, but in reality I’ll probably loaf it or find reasons to skip it.” ”So  —   if you decide you want to join a gym, here’s my advice. (Note: I’m not a fitness expert, and some people will probably disagree with some of this, but it’s what I’ve learned from experience, reading, and talking to trainers. )” ’Happy new year!’