’’ ’New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady has a seriously strict diet.’ ”In an interview with  Brady’s personal chef, Allen Campbell, said the    athlete and his wife, Gisele Bündchen, eat mostly vegetables, meat, and the occasional banana.” ’However, not all fresh fruits and veggies are considered OK to eat.’ ’In fact, a whole family of flowering plants called nightshades, which includes delicious vegetables like peppers, is totally  .’ ’”[Tom] doesn’’t eat nightshades, because they’’re not ” . ”So no tomatoes, peppers, mushrooms, or eggplants. ”’ ’The term ”nightshade” refers to a family of flowering plants that includes tomatoes, peppers, eggplant, and potatoes. The family’’s more official name is Solanaceae; the plants all make a chemical compound called solanine that repels potential pests that might see them as a tasty snack.’ ’The plants have been incorrectly linked with painful swelling or inflammation for decades, according to New York University professor of nutrition Lisa Sasson.’ ’Sasson says the idea that nightshades cause or worsen swelling is a myth.’ ’”There are no studies that support that,” she said. ”It’’s just this kind of myth that circulates. ”’ ’In fact, there are  that suggest tomatoes may have components that actually help relieve inflammation. Others have shown  between tomatoes and swelling.’ ”If there was a strong connection, populations with diets high in tomatoes and eggplants (such as some Italian diets) would likely have a disproportionate amount of problems with inflammation, suggests Sasson, and that isn’t the case.” ”Another one of the   foods Campbell mentions is mushrooms, which don’t fit into the nightshade family after all since they’re technically a fungus.” ”Tomatoes, eggplants, and peppers are all great sources of vitamin C, fiber, and other nutrients like vitamin A and   which are important for eyesight and cell function. Depending on what you eat, you likely won’t become vitamin deficient if you cut them out completely, Sasson said, but you’d probably want to find those nutrients somewhere else, like in other foods, such as spinach and .” ”Nevertheless, you’d still have to kiss pizza and   pasta  .” ’There are some steps you can take to reduce inflammation () Sasson said. They includes staying active, eating healthy fats found in avocados, fish, etc. and steering clear of added sugar and white flour.’