’’ ’North Korea claimed to have tested a hydrogen bomb on Wednesday, shortly after US government monitors detected an earthquake near a known   site.’ ’Seismic information suggests that North Korea tested a weapon with a comparable explosive yield to the nuclear device the country detonated in 2013  —   .’ ’On January 5, the White House said that it .’ ”At the moment, there’s little evidence to support Pyongyang’s claim. Numerous   experts say that it’s likelier that North Korea  for increased yield.” ”Either possibility is worrying, largely for what it suggests about the breadth of North Korea’s nuclear efforts. The North Korean nuclear program is alarming partly because it’s more accurately thought of as two nuclear programs.” ’  and   weapons require different facilities, fissile material, and bomb designs. North Korea has both types of weapons.’ ”One of the world’s poorest and most isolated countries has the   reactor and plutonium reprocessing plant needed to create a   implosion device  —   and the   facilities needed to build a   device, which is detonated through slamming two centrifuges of   material into one another.” ’’ ”The   effects of a hydrogen bomb and simpler   or   bomb aren’t terribly different if the weapons are of identical explosive yield. The more worrying implications are what a successful hydrogen bomb test would reveal about the actual level of North Korean nuclear expertise and development  —   and what it would suggest about Pyongyang’s options moving forward.” ’A hydrogen bomb, also called a thermonuclear weapon, uses a   or   reaction  with the potential to dramatically boost the amount of energy that reaction ends up releasing. A thermonuclear weapon is more complicated and more destructive than a typical atomic bomb.’ ”As Alex Wellerstein, a nuclear historian at the Steven Institute of Technology and creator of  explained to Business Insider, a country that’s mastered thermonuclear weapons design suddenly has a number of possible options open to it.” ’’ ’A country could make ”  bombs”: monstrous,   weapons that could vaporize entire cities but would be too heavy and unwieldy to actually deliver even using a strategic bomber.’ ’It would be possible to build ”’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’