SYDNEY, Australia  —   A powerful earthquake measuring 7. 8 magnitude hit the east coast of New Zealand’s South Island early Monday, causing tsunami waves and killing at least two people, officials said. Hours later, another strong quake measuring 6. 4 magnitude struck the same region, northeast of Christchurch, around the small town of Hanmer Springs, according to Geoscience Australia. The New Zealand Ministry of Civil Defense and Emergency Management warned people living near the coast to move inland to higher ground as tsunami waves raised seawater levels in some places by about six feet. Officials in Wellington, the capital, urged people to stay out of the city’s central business district until the risk of damage to buildings could be assessed. Prime Minister John Key said the earthquake had killed at least two people, Reuters reported. “We don’t have any indications at the moment to believe it will rise, but we can’t rule that out,” Mr. Key said of the death toll, speaking to reporters in Wellington. Glasses broke and furniture moved at Premier House, the official prime ministerial residence in Wellington, Mr. Key said. He had stayed there overnight after meeting with Secretary of State John Kerry, who was on a state visit there and to Antarctica. Geoscience Australia said the 6.  earthquake was one of three large aftershocks that measured between 5. 1 and 6. 4 magnitude. There have been at least 12 aftershocks since early Monday morning in New Zealand. Caroline Little, a spokeswoman for GeoNet New Zealand, which monitors geological hazards, said seismologists had modeled the probability of the number and intensity of aftershocks on Monday morning. “The initial earthquake was a complex rupture,” she said in a telephone interview. “It was one quake, but there were a number of fault segments and a series of orientations in terms of the way the energy was released. ” She described it as a zigzag rather than a single fault and said this would affect the way aftershocks played out. “We expect aftershocks for weeks, maybe months,” she said. The New Zealand Herald reported that one of the confirmed deaths was caused by a heart attack and that the other had taken place on a historic homestead near the beach town of Kaikoura. Military helicopters flew there to assess the damage after roads were destroyed. “There are some reports of casualties in the Kaikoura area, but just exactly what the extent of that is is not yet reported,” Gerry Brownlee, the country’s acting minister of civil defense, told reporters.  The first earthquake struck about 50 miles southwest of Kaikoura and 50 miles north of Christchurch. Elliot Fim, a regional official in Christchurch, said in a telephone interview that there were no reports of damage, injuries or fatalities there. The Fire Department was dealing with a large number of emergency calls. Mr. Fim said people living along about 200 miles of coastline had been evacuated. A spokesman for the Wellington Region Emergency Management office said there were reports of minor damage in the capital. One of Wellington’s newest hotels, the Sofitel, had minor damage. Some members of Mr. Kerry’s staff had to evacuate the hotel in the middle of the night. Dan Jaksa, a duty officer from Geoscience Australia, said that if the small townships north of Christchurch did not have   buildings, “it is going to be tough. ” In 2011, an earthquake measuring 6. 3 magnitude devastated Christchurch and killed 185 people. The earthquake on Monday was about 40 to 50 times as large as the one in 2011, Mr. Jaksa said. In Cheviot, a small town thought to be close to the epicenter, there were no reports of casualties. “There is minimal damage to buildings that we can see,” Grant Burnett, the chief of the Cheviot volunteer fire brigade, said in a telephone interview. “It is surprising, because it was a big quake. ” Mr. Burnett said that some properties along the coast had been evacuated, but that none had been seriously damaged by the surge in seawater. The fire brigade went door to door to check on residents. The earthquake occurred in the Hikurangi Trench, a subduction zone where one tectonic plate slides under another. New Zealand’s North Island and the northern part of its South Island are on the Australian plate, which is moving north, while the Pacific plate is largely moving west. “This is the zone where the Pacific plate goes underneath the Australian plate,” Mr. Jaksa said.