’’ ’A prisoner swap between the US and Iran finalized over the weekend was in the works for more than a year, senior Obama administration officials said Saturday. ’ ’The administration has insisted that the subject of a prisoner release was never broached during nuclear talks.’ ’But that officials were actively working toward freeing the prisoners while nuclear negotiations were underway has led some experts to speculate that the nuclear deal had a more expansive purpose than the White House ever let on.’ ’Indeed, US Secretary of State John Kerry suggested an increased sense of cooperation after the prisoner release was finalized,  that Iranian Foreign Minister Javad Zarif said ”t’ ’’ ’”’ ’The prisoner swap  —   ’ ’’ ’”It is difficult to imagine that today’’s exchange was not related to the deal,” told Business Insider in an email.’ ’He added: ”Apart from the timing of the release, on the day that Iran satisfied IAEA requirements for implementation of the Iran deal, the release also seems to justify the administration’’s talking points that the deal would, over time, moderate the Iranian government’’s behavior. ”’ ’’ ”Though thawing relations with Iran may have been one of President Barack Obama’s goals with the deal,  have forcefully insisted that the deal agreed upon by world powers last July  —   known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA)  —   be limited to issues surrounding Iran’s nuclear program. The JCPOA is not, they contend, a step toward greater rapprochement with the   Great Satan.” ’But Badran, of the FDD, said that the nuclear deal has always been ”a dynamic for cooperation with Iran on other issues. ”’ ’The problem with that, he said, is that Iranian government officials use every concession the US gives them ”to pursue their agenda. ”’ ’”Once Implementation Day is announced, Iran is going to step up its provocative actions in the region and the   know this White House won’’t do a thing about it for the next 12 months,” ’ ’’ ’’ ’ut I’’m not happy that the [ ] Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corp. and the families of their criminals are celebrating today. ”’ ’’ ’’ ’”I think for the White House to say they were negotiating for the release of illegally detained Americans would have been embarrassing after the Bergdahl fiasco,” Pregent said, referring to the US’’ exchange of five Taliban prisoners for Bowe Bergdahl, a s after he walked off his base in Afghanistan in 2009.’ ’”A strong negotiating team would have demanded their release before we even sat down to talk nuclear program,” ’ ’ ’ ’’ ’’