Chelsea Manning, who confessed to disclosing archives of secret diplomatic and military documents to WikiLeaks in 2010 and has been incarcerated longer than any other convicted leaker in American history, has formally petitioned President Obama to reduce the remainder of her   sentence to the more than six years she has already served. In a statement accompanying her petition, a copy of which her lawyer provided to The New York Times, Ms. Manning again said she took “full and complete responsibility” for her actions, which she called “wrong. ” She also described her difficult life, including the turmoil she faced at the time of her leaks as she came to grips with gender dysphoria while deployed to Iraq, her treatment in prison, and her multiple suicide attempts. “I am not asking for a pardon of my conviction,” she wrote. “I understand that the various collateral consequences of the   conviction will stay on my record forever. The sole relief I am asking for is to be released from military prison after serving six years of confinement as a person who did not intend to harm the interests of the United States or harm any service members. ” Ms. Manning’s petition was accompanied by letters of support from Daniel Ellsberg, who is famous for leaking a classified history of the Vietnam War known as the Pentagon Papers Morris Davis, a former military commissions chief prosecutor and Glenn Greenwald, a legal commentator and journalist who has been an outspoken supporter. While military prosecutors portrayed Ms. Manning  —   formerly known as Pfc. Bradley Manning  —   as a traitor, many   advocates consider her a   and a hero. In interviews, both Mr. Davis and Mr. Ellsberg said they hoped that Mr. Obama would give special consideration to her request in light of the election of Donald J. Trump, suggesting that the   would be less likely to give her favorable consideration. “I believe now, in the six and a half weeks we have remaining, we all have to ask President Obama to do with his powers good things before he leaves, before a new president comes in, and I really believe that he should commute Chelsea Manning’s sentence to time served,” Mr. Ellsberg said. A member of Ms. Manning’s volunteer support network said that a formal announcement and publicity campaign were scheduled for Monday. Several celebrities, including Michael Stipe of R. E. M. and Thurston Moore of Sonic Youth, are coordinating efforts aimed at building public support for Ms. Manning’s release. Both have previously made videos in support of her. While working as an intelligence analyst in a secure information facility at a forward operating base in Iraq, Ms. Manning copied and later sent to WikiLeaks hundreds of thousands of incident logs from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, a   diplomatic cables from American embassies around the world, dossiers about Guantánamo detainees, and a video showing an American helicopter strike on a group of people in Baghdad in which two Reuters journalists were killed. WikiLeaks later made the documents public, working with various traditional news media organizations, including The New York Times. After her arrest, Ms. Manning was tried by a   where she confessed to the leaks and pleaded guilty to a lesser version of the charges against her without any plea deal to cap her sentence. Military prosecutors pressed forward with the trial and convicted her of most of the more serious versions of the charges, including multiple counts under the Espionage Act, a World War   law that makes it a crime to disclose potentially harmful military secrets to someone not authorized to receive them. The law applies even if the defendant’s motivation was to inform the American public, rather than to help a foreign adversary. A military judge imposed a prison sentence of 35 years, dramatically longer than the sentences other accused leakers have received. While only a few leakers have been successfully prosecuted under the Espionage Act  —   the first such conviction came in 1985  —   most of those convicted have received sentences of between about one year and three and a half years. In some leak cases, Espionage Act charges were dropped as part of plea deals. John Kiriakou, a former C. I. A. official who was accused of discussing with journalists the identities of fellow intelligence officials involved in interrogating terrorism suspects, was initially charged under the Espionage Act, but those charges were dropped as part of a plea deal in which he was sentenced to 30 months in prison. Mr. Kiriakou, who has finished serving his sentence, has applied for a pardon, the Justice Department said. Still, Ms. Manning is different from him and most other accused leakers because she disclosed a large volume of documents covering many topics, rather than one or two particular secrets. In that sense, her case more closely resembles that of Edward J. Snowden, the former intelligence contractor who came forward in June 2013 as the source of a leaked archive of classified documents about surveillance. Mr. Snowden has also been charged under the Espionage Act, but he is living as a fugitive in Russia. In September, a group of Mr. Snowden’s supporters asked Mr. Obama to pardon him, although the White House has already ruled that out. Ms. Manning had petitioned for a full pardon three years ago, shortly after she was convicted and announced that she was transgender and was changing her name. She wrote in her statement that she now understood that her request had been premature and that “the relief requested was too much. ”