’’ ’When US President Barack Obama announced his   plan earlier this month in an  he included a striking proposal:’ ’”Smart” guns are defined as any firearm capable of recognizing its owner in an effort to prevent unauthorized use. Different types of smart guns exist, but they fall into two major categories:     (RFID) enabled and biometric fingerprint sensors.’ ”The  is probably the most   smart gun enabled through RFID technology. Its paired with an RFID wristband, and if the shooter isn’t wearing the wristband, the gun won’t fire.” ”But for a number of reasons, the iP1 hasn’t been a hot seller.” ’In early January, the New Jersey Legislature  requiring that smart guns be sold alongside traditional firearms no more than three years after the smart technology hits the market, anywhere in the country. Gov. Chris Christie (R) vetoed the law on Tuesday, reports .’ ”  advocates, including  fear that smart guns are a step toward government mandates controlling the types of firearms Americans can and can’t purchase. Because many   advocates are skeptical of the technology, retailers who put the iP1 on the shelf have been met with boycotts, and even death threats, reports .” ’’ ’And as the  the iP1 does have some serious design flaws. It takes up to 12 seconds to unlock the gun when it’’s switched off  —   a ”cold” start  —   and if the wristband isn’’t within 10 inches of the watch, the gun won’’t fire. And that’’s not to mention issues with battery life, waterproofing, and the high sticker price  —   the base cost is more than $1, 700, five times the price of other .  pistols.’ ” a   of O. F. Mossberg & Sons directly focused on smart guns, has developed a   shotgun. The gun owner must wear a   ring to fire the weapon. Without the ring, the gun won’t fire.” ’The iGun and the iP1 are excellent for their primary purpose: keeping firearms away from children and preventing them from being stolen.’ ”But both require an additional part to function. And that, whether it’s a wristband or a ring, can get lost or lose battery life  —   not ideal in an emergency situation.” ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ”If it does, the gun is unlocked and ready to use. If it doesn’t, the gun remains locked. There’s no swiping involved, according to Kloepfer.” ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ”While Dalseide reiterated that the NRA doesn’t specifically have a problem with   technology, he did bring up concerns about reliability and the government mandating the types of firearms available on the market.” ’”We believe that consumers should have the choice about what firearms they want to use,” Dalseide said. ”That shouldn’’t come from a mandate, especially because the technology is unproven. ”’ ”But according to Kloepfer, once his technology is perfected, his gun will be the consumer’s first choice.” ’”Smart guns really can provide additional safety without retracting from the experience or benefits of owning a gun,” Kloepfer said. ”Assuming they’’re done correctly, smart guns are a  . ”’