’Stocks ripped higher on Friday to close off a positive week for the markets.’ ’January, however, was still rough, as stocks had one of their worst months in years to start 2016.’ ’First, the scoreboard:’ ’The Bank of Japan has joined the negative   party.’ ’Overnight, the BoJ  a  . 10% interest rate on excess reserves parked at the bank by financial institutions. Now, it’’s not quite as simple as ”banks are now being charged money to keep it at the Bank of Japan,” because this rate is really only  —   going to be  —   being applied to balances above what is required by regulation and any reserves created by a bank’’s sale of government bonds to the BoJ as part of its   program.’ ”There’s a chart sort of explaining it:” ’Analysts at Barclays noted that almost no money currently on hand at the BoJ is eligible for this charge, and the amount of money that does eventually become available is likely to be small. But the exciting thing  —   or scary thing, depending on how you see the world  —   for the market is that negative interest rates continue to be a bigger part of the global   discussion after having, for a long time, been a sort of theoretical exercise.’ ’The US economy grew at a pace of 0. 7% in the fourth quarter,  growth released on Friday morning. This was slightly less than forecast by Wall Street analysts and a slowdown from the pace of growth seen during the third quarter.’ ’Overall, the economy appears to have grown at a 2. 4% pace in 2015  —   this number is still subject to revision  —   matching the pace of growth seen in 2014 and affirming the steady, if somewhat underwhelming, growth trajectory seen in the US since the financial crisis.’ ’The headline figure on growth can prompt declarations of an ”anemic” or ”sluggish” economy, which we wouldn’’t really feel compelled to argue with, but with recent discussions around the economy focusing on the chances for a recession in recent weeks, signs that we’’re at an inflection point where the US consumer  —   which really drives the economy  —   is beginning to roll over are still elusive.’ ’Consumption rose at a 2. 2% pace during the fourth quarter, beating estimates, and in 2015 consumption rose 3. 1% the most in a decade.’ ’Economists at Barclays, who forecast a Q4 GDP print showing just 0. 5% growth, said this beat relative to their expectations was ”driven primarily by consumption and residential investment, which we take as a positive signal for the strength of US households and the broader business cycle. ”’ ’’ ’’ ’Meanwhile, the latest Chicago PMI report came in way better than expected, rising to a reading of 55. 6 from 42. 9 last month, indicating expansion in manufacturing activity in the Midwest after several months of contraction. Not everyone was convinced this report mattered, however, with Pantheon Macro’’s Ian Shepherdson  ”Think of a number, anything you like. There you go: you’’ve just generated the Chicago PMI, congratulations. ”’ ’In more trusted data, the  in January from the University of Michigan came in at a reading of 92. 0, showing confidence tempered somewhat from earlier this month but still indicating that consumers feel about as good as they have during the   expansion.’ ’According to Richard Curtin, chief economist for the survey:’ ’So we know that oil is the world’’s big geopolitical focus right now, but a  took a look at the risks that a ”Brexit” pose for Europe and global markets going forward and argued that, basically, people are being too complacent right now.’ ’European’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’(Disclosure: Jeff Bezos invests in Business Insider through his personal investment company, Bezos Expeditions. )’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’” reads Jason Guerrasio’’s headline rounding up the movies streaming players bought up at the prestigious film event held each year in Park City, Utah. This is real disruption.’ ’More breastfeeding  apparently.’ ’Earlier this week, it seemed that Apple was going to set off a round of bearish commentary about the world economy from tech giants set to report earnings. In the end, .’ ’Theranos, the      healthcare startup  which leads us to the best hypothetical in markets right now: If Theranos were public, where would its stock be trading?’ ’Hedge fund managers  to discuss material, nonpublic information. They were caught, it seems, but that is a great effort.’ ’The US .’ ’Facebook shares .’ ’.’ ’Get updates in your inbox.’ ’Subscribe to Closing Bell and never miss an update!’