’’ ’On Monday, more than a year of bluster and posturing will come to a head, as the first votes in the   process are cast and the first delegates are allotted in Iowa.’ ”Almost 20 presidential candidates have . They’ve blanketed the airwaves with advertisements. And they’ve made a few ideological concessions that happen to appease   voters.” ”But behind the scenes, the campaigns understand that Iowa’s complex nominating process means that simply winning a voter’s support before the caucus is only the first step.” ”That’s because Iowa’s caucus system, the first nominating contest in the nation, is a fairly complicated process. The state will be followed by Nevada, Alaska, Maine, and Wyoming, among others, which all hold closed caucuses within the first six weeks of voting this year.” ’But in the minds of many, the system is not particularly democratic.’ ’”’ ”In Iowa’s case, the state allows anyone who will be at least 18 years old on Election Day to caucus in February at one of Iowa’s 1, 682 precincts, starting at 7 p. m local time. The vast majority will caucus with either the Democratic or Republican parties, which run quite different processes.” ’Democrats have a much more complicated caucus that focuses on a concept called ”viability. ”’ ’Once   have arrived, precinct chairs’ ’’ ’Attendees then divide themselves into ”presidential preference groups.” If a candidate doesn’’t meet the viability threshold, supporters can then join another group or attempt to lobby supporters from viable candidates to defect. Once the groups are solidified, the precinct awards its delegates proportionally.’ ’’ ’The Republican process is somewhat more straightforward, as the race in Iowa looks to come down to   magnate Donald Trump and Sen. Ted Cruz ( ).’ ”After campaign surrogates are given the chance to speak briefly in support of their candidate,   vote by  and the tallies are sent to the party’s state headquarters and relayed to the media.” ’Though the process commits delegates to different candidates, the delegates are by no means prevented from switching to other candidates.’ ”Though individual   counts do not matter if there is an overwhelming favorite for the nomination, the fact that delegates are not committed could become important if the race on either the Republican or Democratic side is close come each party’s convention.” ’Critics assert the system is unorganized and not especially democratic.’ ’Voting is not anonymous in many cases,  to gravitate away from their original choice if pressured by neighbors and friends.’ ’With no   option, turnout is also low.  during the last   cycle, of the 120, 000 Iowa Republicans who showed up in 2008, many were older and wealthier than the average Iowan.’ ”The results weren’t much better in 2012: Only just more than 147, 000 of the state’s 2, 250, 000 eligible voters actually showed up, .” ’Some   also find the system confusing.’ ’ Christopher Hitchens noted in 2007 that  . Hillary Clinton dispatched campaign staffers to supporters’’ homes with DVDs explaining how the caucuses worked, because some of her potential supporters found the process to be ”. ”’ ’’ ’’ ’”I think the caucuses are what democracies are built on. The idea that a group of neighbors will get together to talk and debate and decide who they want to be our next president or our next nominee in this case gets at the very essence of what America is built on,” Charlie Szold, the ’ ’He added: ”They ensure that these campaigns aren’’t just about name recognition or TV ads or radio spending. It’’s about meeting people, and convincing them and organizing them to come out at a specific time. ”’ ’But a larger issue in recent years has been the disorganization of the system itself.’ ’In 2012, former Sen. Rick Santorum ( ) ended up defeating Romney in Iowa  —   but only after the   chair reversed his original call following the discovery of massive amounts of miscounted ballots at more than 130 precincts.’ ’According to The New York Times,  and misrepresented the percentage of votes picked up by the two candidates.’ ’’ ”Iowa officials caution that the caucus shouldn’t be held to the same standard as an official primary. They argue that it should instead be treated as a bellwether for where voter sentiment lies in the state.” ’In 2012, Iowa Gov. Terry Branstad (R) commended the process, noting that the caucus is staffed by volunteers, not government officials with training and experience overseeing elections.’ ’“I think they generally did a good job,” Branstad said, . “Remember this is a caucus, not a primary. So you don’t have all the professionalism that you have with the county auditors and all of those people handling it. You have volunteers. ”’ ’Nevertheless, Republicans are working to ensure that this is not a problem in 2016.’ ’”We’’ve made some serious upgrades to the process this time around,” said.’ ”Instead of reporting their results via telephone, the Republican and Democratic parties in Iowa are both using a   mobile application to report precinct results. The tallies will be reported in real time as they’re submitted.” ’’ ’”In 2012, the way that people reported results was they would call a number and they would literally tap in the results on a keypad in their phone. So a voice would say ’’Mitt Romney,’’ and you would have to look at your phone and physically tap in 34 votes or whatever it was,” Szold said.’ ’”The app works very similarly. The huge difference is that you can actually see what you’’re typing in. ”’