Donald J. Trump’s election victory was powered in part by forceful opposition to what he described as an economic and political system rigged against the American people for the benefit of shadowy forces in the news media, the banks and the government.   Trump and his allies often describe that system with one word: globalism. It is a word that conjures many images, none of them good: shuttered factories, unchecked immigration and a distant cabal that, believers say, controls the economy and the media. Analysts who track extremist groups in the United States have expressed alarm at the use of the word by the  . They say it carries multiple meanings  —   from benign to sinister  —   and often serves as a “dog whistle” for racist,   and antigovernment conspiracy theorists. “Globalism is a principle driver for the fears that animate the radical right in the United States,” said Ryan Lenz, the editor of Hatewatch, a blog published by the Southern Poverty Law Center. “It is the enemy, ultimately. ” Globalism is often used as a synonym for globalization, the system of global economic interconnection that has been critiqued for decades by liberal groups like labor unions, environmental organizations and opponents of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. But for the far right, the term encapsulates a conspiratorial worldview based on racism, xenophobia and   according to Mark Pitcavage, a researcher at the   League. Lauren Southern, a host on the   Canadian media site Rebel Media, explicitly rejected its use as a synonym for globalization in a video she posted online in September. She said the word meant rule by autocrats  —   such as President Obama, former President George W. Bush and the United Nations  —   who value “the false flag of diversity” and “unchecked immigration from the third world. ” “Globalists almost always sneer down their nose at tradition, disdain national culture, laugh at religion and generally despise the West while holding a creepy affection for the third world,” she added. “They want open borders, cheap labor and antinationalism to benefit their business and political visions, and are all too willing to shaft the little people to achieve it. ” Breitbart News, the   website run by Stephen K. Bannon, Mr. Trump’s newly appointed chief White House strategist, frequently attacked globalism and   “globalist elites” during Mr. Bannon’s tenure there. But no one may have done more to popularize the idea of a globalist conspiracy than Alex Jones, a   radio host who commands an online audience of millions through his Infowars media empire. He has been called “the most prolific conspiracy theorist in contemporary America” by the Southern Poverty Law Center. Among his claims: the Sandy Hook school massacre in Newtown, Conn. was a hoax and the Sept. 11 terror attacks were an inside job. Mr. Jones posted his own definition of globalism to YouTube in 2014. In his trademark shout, he described it as a “global digital panopticon control system” engineered by shadowy corporate and political elites. He called it “the total form of slavery. ” The host, who has enthusiastically supported Mr. Trump, hailed the Republican as a “George  ” historical figure. Mr. Trump, who appeared on his show last year, has in turn heaped praise upon Mr. Jones. “Your reputation is amazing,” Mr. Trump said. “I will not let you down. You will be very, very impressed, I hope. And I think we’ll be speaking a lot. ” So what is Mr. Trump talking about when he talks about globalism? His spokeswoman, Hope Hicks, provided a definition in an email before the election last week:   groups in the United States began to refer to globalism at the end of the Cold War, when it replaced communism as an idea that was an   danger to the nation, Mr. Pitcavage said. They have also referred to it as the New World Order, and soon they saw its tentacles everywhere. The shape of that conspiracy had distinctly   overtones, in part because many of communism’s foes had historically seen communism as inextricably linked to Judaism, Mr. Pitcavage said. Members of the far right became fixated on prominent Jews like the businessman and philanthropist George Soros. Those conspiratorial beliefs were bolstered when former President George Bush celebrated the end of the Cold War in a 1991 speech by saying it was the dawn of a “new world order. ” His use of the phrase was taken as proof by many that a globalist conspiracy really was afoot. “It was very easy for them, especially because he was the one who said it, to take that ball and run with it,” Mr. Pitcavage said. “From that point on, the phrase became the short hand for that kind of globalism conspiracy theory. ” The term’s multiple meanings have made it a powerful political tool, and Mr. Trump’s and his allies’ frequent references to globalism have drawn in a wide and varied audience. “  is a very efficient net to unite disparate parts of the right” from the mainstream to the extreme, said Brian Levin, the director of the Center for the Study of Hate and Extremism at California State University, San Bernardino. Professor Levin called globalism “the defining folklore and narrative for the racist right” but said it had also “become a convenient boogeyman to explain the various declines that the United States is perceived to be in. ” Globalism was an important theme in the final weeks of Mr. Trump’s campaign, for example, when he told  a rally in Florida in October that his opponent for the presidency, Hillary Clinton, had sat at the heart of a   conspiracy with international bankers “to plot the destruction of U. S. sovereignty. ” The   League criticized the speech for “evoking classic   themes. ” Conspiratorial talk has continued after the election. Mr. Trump referred to a plot against him again last Thursday, when he complained on Twitter that   protests were the work of the news media and paid protesters. Lou Dobbs, a Trump ally and host on Fox Business News, later accused Mr. Soros of “inciting riots. ” Many on the far right have celebrated Mr. Trump’s election victory as a momentous blow against the globalist conspiracy. Last Friday, Mr. Jones claimed on YouTube that Mr. Trump had called him personally to thank him and his audience for their support and to offer to appear on his show again soon. Ms. Hicks, the Trump campaign’s spokeswoman, did not reply to an email seeking comment late Sunday night. Mr. Jones then pivoted to what he thought was most important: the coming destruction of “the globalists that hijacked the country,” primarily the news media and international business people. Soon they would be destroyed once and for all, he suggested. “This is America battling back to restore humanity and to break the chains,” he said. “There’s not gonna be any détente. We know you’re scum, and we’re just here to let you know you’re scum. ”