’Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe called the launch ”absolutely unacceptable. ”’ ’’ ’’ ’North Korea had previously  it would launch a rocket carrying what it called an   satellite some time between February 8 and February 25, triggering international opposition from governments that see it as a    test.’ ’’ ’’ ’The hermit nation, which is already under sanctions for its nuclear and missile programs, says it has a right to pursue a space program.’ ’’ ’’ ’Under a UN Security Council resolution, North Korea is banned from developing any   technology.’ ’The North is believed to be working on a miniaturized nuclear warhead to mount on a missile, but many experts say it is some time away from perfecting the technology.’ ’’ ’’ ’On Saturday a US North Korean rocket did not pose a threat to the US or its allies.’ ’”We can confirm . .. that we have detected a launch from North Korea, that initial indications are that it does not pose a threat to the US or our allies,” the defense official said.’ ’’ ’’ ’he supported reviewing the possibility of converting a US Aegis   test site in Hawaii into a  to bolster US defenses against   attacks.’ ’Harris also said after a speech at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington that it made sense to put a mobile   system known as the  in South Korea.’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’The warships are spread out around the region to protect installations in Japan, Guam, and South Korea, and to track the   and   rocket boosters as they fall back to Earth after the launch.’ ”China’s official Xinhua news agency reported that ” ’The Korean peninsula cannot be nuclearized or descend into war,  reported, saying all parties should deal with the situation calmly to keep it from spinning out of control.’ ’On Friday, US President Barack Obama spoke by telephone with President Xi Jinping of China, North Korea’’s main ally and neighbor, and agreed that a North Korean launch would represent a ”provocative and destabilizing action,” the White House said.’ ”Obama and Xi also said they would coordinate efforts to respond to North Korea’s nuclear test last month and said they would not accept North Korea as a   state.” ’”The leaders emphasized the importance of a strong and united international response to North Korea’’s provocations, including through an impactful UN Security Council Resolution,” the White House said.’ ’Washington and Beijing have appeared divided over how to respond to North Korea, with the US urging tougher sanctions and China stressing the need for dialogue.’ ”The latest dialogue comes after North Korea’s  after which UN Security Council members began preparing new sanctions against the North.” ’Reuters contributed to this report.’