’What a week!’ ’The first full week of February saw the   —   a mixed report that ”” some economists but did see the unemployment rate fall to a new   low  —   as well as  from the services sector of the economy, which accounts for the vast majority of GDP growth.’ ”All in all, though, the first week in February more or less affirmed the consensus narrative about the US economy: things might not be great, but a recession isn’t imminent.” ”We also heard from quite a few Federal Reserve officials this week, with the week’s biggest   speech coming from Kansas City Fed president Esther George. In a  George  —   who is a voting member on the FOMC this year  —   argued that the market volatility we’ve seen in the wake of the Fed’s December rate hike wasn’t unexpected and can’t be the guidepost for Fed decisions going forward. ” ’”While taking a signal from such volatility is warranted, monetary policy cannot respond to every blip in financial markets,” George said. ”’ ’This week, Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen will be on Capitol Hill for two days of testimony, appearing before the House Financial Services Committee on Wednesday and the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs on Thursday.’ ’Anywhere you look in financial markets there are going to be people talking about recession.’ ’”Recession worries continue to percolate,” writes Bank of America Merrill Lynch economist Ethan Harris.’ ’Harris adds:’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’”The largest hits from the major oil company responses are behind us, although at $  (and maybe less) there will be some further retrenchment,” Grantham writes.’ ’”And now comes the matching response from us, the consumers. Everything we buy has cheaper input costs. The major item of gasoline purchases is a steady jolt of encouragement. Heating bills are also much lower. Could there be a better financial input than this to the group that has been hurting for 30 years  —   the median wage earner? Not easily. ”’ ”And quite simply, there’s your bull case for the US economy: more money for average Americans, more economic growth for everybody.” ’Get updates in your inbox.’ ’Subscribe to Monday Scouting Report and never miss an update!’