’’ ’If the terrible headlines and stock prices are to be read like tea leaves, then the tech industry is about to face a major reality check. ’ ’Investors have already labeled this period ”The Great Reset.” Why?’ ’At the Upfront Summit in Los Angeles last week, the shift was palpable. There was still plenty of cheerleading for companies, but there were also plenty of nervous conversations between sessions and even on stage.’ ’No longer is it growth at all costs. ”If you haven’’t built a real company, you’’re dead,” one investor bluntly put it.’ ”Here’s what I learned from a week in Los Angeles talking not only to Silicon Valley investors, but also those doing deals across the US:” ”For the startups that are currently valued at more than $1 billion  —   the   unicorns  —   there’s no doubt from investors that the public market will be painful.” ’Given their name, these companies are supposed to be rare, bordering on mythical. Yet in 2015 a whole herd of unicorns showed up. Fortune Magazine  on its site. Venture capital database CB Insights .’ ”There’s no way they’re all going to go public and meet their valuations. ” ’”You would have to be blind to not see the disconnect between public and private multiples,” said one   VC. ’ ’Some investors are starting to split the unicorn camp into three buckets:’ ’As a result, the once cherished unicorn title is being replaced by a new one: ””  —   companies building sustainable businesses that can survive anything. Especially among the Los Angeles startups, revenue is talked about more openly (at least five local companies are hitting   revenues, according to Science Inc. ’’s Mike Jones) and investors, like Accel’’s Rich Wong, have admitted that they’’re asking different questions of the companies they meet.’ ’”That fear of missing out on that next Facebook rocket ship is starting to be replaced by actual fear of losing money,” Wong said . ”If I’’m doing a      company, it’’s probably a different conversation to raise money than I was having two years ago. ”’ ’For   going public might be the ”cleanest” way to raise capital, said one investor. That’’s because so many   investors are throwing in protections,  in the face of sour public markets. If there’’s a sustainable business built, then going public is better than raising from growth funds like Fidelity that  (a favorite topic of conversation among the   investors).’ ”In fact, the struggling unicorns might find their only option is going public, according to investors. CB Insights founder Anand Sanwal  companies, like Dropbox, Cloudera, and Jawbone, will have to be dragged across the finish line to avoid having to raise a down round  —   a round that’s at lower value  —   or to find funding at all.” ’’ ’A lot of investors are complaining that companies are staying private too long.’ ’Fred Wilson gave an  while Benchmark’’s Bill Gurley said ”staying private longer” is the worst advice he’’s ever heard.’ ’”We need to go back to looking at the IPO as the objective,” Gurley . ”Until you get liquid, you really haven’t accomplished anything. ”’ ’Which brings us to liquidity. Second markets are springing up for shares, and companies are trying to find a way to provide some liquidity to both their investors and their employees.’ ”The most recent example is Andreessen Horowitz and Founders Fund. The two venture capital firms  of   company Lyft for a small profit. Saudi Arabia’s Prince   bin Talal wanted more shares as part of Lyft’s December Series D round, and wasn’t able to get them from the company itself, according to a source familiar with the situation.” ’’ ”This was the first time Andreessen Horowitz decided to sell a small number of shares and take some money off the table. Some took it as a lack of confidence in Lyft, but as Fortune’s Dan Primack also pointed out, these VCs do have a fiduciary duty to return some money. It’s sometimes a smart business move to take some money off the table when you can, .” ”Investors aren’t feeling the pressure of returning funds to their investors, the limited partners, yet  —   most funds have a   cycle  —   but   sales are something that will continue to increase anxiety unless M&A activity picks up, some investors cautioned. ” ’So where does that leave the startups going into 2016?’ ’From here on, the stronger should get stronger, and the weak will start to show.’ ”There’s been a slew of layoffs as companies begin to trim the fat.   messaging app Tango  of its staff on Friday. Earlier this week, data storage and analytics company DataGravity  dismissed staff to cut costs. Even widely considered IPO candidate Practice Fusion, an electronic   provider, has ” ’While cutting costs is advised for startups in desperate need to buy themselves time, GGV partner Glenn Solomon recommended that founders really look at their metrics and not be influenced by outside trends as much. If they have the numbers and valuation to keep on only building, that should be their focus  —   not pulling back out of fear.’ ’”CEOs have among their most important jobs is managing momentum,” said Solomon.’ ”That’s momentum across every metric: hiring, growth of the business, morale, investor sentiment, and valuations.” ”Once startups start cutting costs, momentum is reversed. Morale sinks as headcount shrinks. At that point, it’s time to reset your sights on what the endgame is and adjust, Solomon said.” ’’ ’In a later blog post, Solomon :’ ’While there is a lot of doom and gloom, many see a bright side in all this.’ ’For one, some expect round sizes to come down. Or as Joanne Wilson put it, ”more egos in check. ”’ ”That’s what USV saw with Foursquare when it pivoted (or just realized) that its strength  It’s better for them to have a down round and get leaner and more focused than to raise too much money and squander it away working on an   or unrealistic goal. ” ”Meanwhile, the limited partners who fund the VCs are still optimistic: Their funding of venture capital firms is back to prerecession levels, and, as Mark Suster from Upfront Ventures points out, it’s expected to increase. ” ’’ ’That means there will still be capital to fund the startups the deserve it. If anything, a more hostile market will reduce the noise of startups that are just going for fast cash versus those building sustainable businesses. For those startups raising, their next round  but only double it  —   or not raise it all.’ ’While there may be a ”great reset” in terms of the valuations of companies funded and the rates at which they grow, the tech correction is . The tech industry is just hitting refresh.’ ’”We can’’t be too paranoid. Bad markets bring opportunity,” Suster says.’ ’If the terrible headlines and stock prices are. ..’