’’ ’During the first weekend in February, 15, 000 members of the  community gathered in Washington, DC, for the .’ ’The celebration was billed as ’ ’Janelle Monáe, a   R&B singer.’ ”But the anniversary wasn’t entirely a celebration of TFA’s successes.” ’At the event was also a smaller, if not at times equally vocal, subset of the TFA community, who set their sights on being a disrup’ ’”The people who criticize me, they were taunting me for the whole weekend,” Rubinstein told Business Insider.’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’The organization has successfully introduced highly qualified new teachers into the profession, and  the teachers in the program are effective educators. One of the most cited,  showed that TFA teachers were just as effective as their counterparts in other schools who had an average of 13. 6 years experience teaching, versus TFA average of 1. 5 years.’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’ at  one of the most populous middle schools in Texas.’ ’The experience was humbling and difficult, according to Rubinstein.’ ’’ ’’ ’On the surface, Rubinstein would still seem to be a TFA success story. Today, he teaches math at Stuyvesant High School in New York City, a   public school that students must test into.’ ’His nearly 20 years of teaching in different states and schools has given him the perspective to articulate the failures he sees within the TFA organization, he says. His biggest issue with TFA is what he describes as its lack of support for teachers.’ ”Rubinstein argues that TFA suggests good teachers are all that’s needed to save children and failing schools. That suggestion, he says, is not only inaccurate but also harmful to the profession.” ’’ ’’ ’Rubinstein finds TFA to be frustratingly silent when it comes to the most important education issues, especially as an organization that has an operating budget of more than $300 million a year.’ ’’ ’’ ’”Where is Teach for America speaking about Flint, Michigan?” he asked. ”Where are they talking about Chicago where they are cutting the budget? ”’ ’Still, Rubinstein appears hopeful about the future of TFA and its position in education reform.’ ’”I felt more optimistic compared to five years ago,” he said of the anniversary event. ”Five years ago was a real disaster. There was teacher bashing at its height. ”’ ’But he couldn’’t help criticizing the organization once again when he reflected on the ending performance by  which he called a ”gluttonous ending ceremony. ”’ ’”What happened to the days when some kid who was a student of one of the Teach for America teachers would come and sing and we would give them just as big of a standing ovation? ”’ ’During the first weekend in February, 15, 000. ..’