’’ ’Sperm cells are easy to take for granted. Men produce them in the millions on a daily basis. Billions go unused every month.’ ’But nearly   of the 50 million couples with infertility around the world are unable to conceive because of the man’s inability to properly create sperm cells.’ ’Now, by recreating the environment of the testicle in a Petri dish, scientists in China have succeeded in coaxing mouse stem cells to form   cells that could successfully fertilize eggs and make healthy pups.’ ’The researchers from the Chinese Academy of Sciences in Bejing, Nanjing Medical University, and elsewhere  the findings Thursday in the journal Cell Stem Cell.’ ’“This is a groundbreaking paper in the field of male reproduction and infertility,” said Dr. Rebecca Sokol, an expert in reproductive medicine at the University of Southern California.’ ’If the work can be replicated with human cells and shown to be safe, it could revolutionize “the treatment of men who present with the inability to produce normal mature sperm cells. ”’ ’Reproductive biologists have spent decades trying to grow the precursors to sperm and eggs in lab dishes, using “pluripotent” stem cells as their starter ingredients.’ ’These cells are  . They’re found naturally in the embryo, where they divide into a whole whack of different kinds of cells in order to create all the necessary tissues to make a body. That process can also be mimicked in the lab by reprogramming skin cells to be just as malleable.’ ’Both embryonic and reprogrammed stem cells have been used to artificially make heart cells and muscle cells, pancreatic cells, and neurons. But the gametes that allow us to reproduce have proven trickier to engineer.’ ’Then, a few years ago researchers in Japan  in nudging mouse stem cells into becoming  . To turn them into sperm or eggs, though, the researchers needed to inject them into testicles or ovaries, where swarms of   cells create the perfect nursery for reproductive cells.’ ’Sperm cells are easy to take for granted. Men. ..’