’Donald Trump responded to an attack from his Democratic presidential rival on the night of the Super Tuesday contests.’ ’Earlier in the evening, Democratic presidential frontrunner Hillary Clinton  and his ”Make America Great Again” campaign slogan.’ ’”We know we’’ve got work to do. It’’s not to make America great again,” Clinton said. ”America never stopped being great. We have to make America whole . .. and fill in what’’s been hollowed out. ”’ ”Trump said Clinton wasn’t capable of fixing America’s problems.” ’”I watched Hillary’’s speech and she’’s talking about, ’’Wages have been poor, and everything’’s poor, and everything’’s doing badly, but we’’re going to make it. ’’ She’’s been there for so long,” Trump said, referring to Clinton’’s long career in government.’ ’”I mean, if she hasn’’t straightened it out by now, she’’s not going to straighten it out in the next four years. It’’s just going to become worse and worse,” he added.’ ’He then responded directly to her attack on his campaign slogan.’ ’”She wants to make America whole again, and I’’m trying to figure out what is that all about,” Trump said. ”’’Make America great again’’ is going to be much better than making America whole again. ”’ ”Trump also tried to dispute the notion that he’s a divisive character, a portrayal that Democrats  —   and many Republicans  —   have given him.” ’”I am a unifier,” Trump said. ”I know people are going to find that a little bit hard to believe, but believe me, I am a unifier. ”’ ’He also suggested that, if he and Clinton were the presidential nominees for their respective parties, it would be an ”easy race. ”’ ’”Once we get all of this finished, I’’m going to go after one person. That’’s Hillary Clinton,” Trump said. ”. .. And I think that’’s frankly going to be an easy race. You see the polls. I beat Hillary in many polls. ”’ ”Trump also pushed back on the narrative that he’s dividing the Republican party.” ’”We are going to be a much finer party,” Trump said. ”We’’re going to be a unified party. . .. And we are going to be a much bigger party. And you can see that happening. . .. Our party is expanding. ”’ ’Donald Trump responded to an attack from his. ..’