’’ ’For all of the attention that the   startup Faraday Future has gotten in the past year, very little is still known about the company.’ ’When it first appeared in California last year, Faraday Future was quickly dubbed a potential   backed by Chinese internet billionaires keen to get into the   game.’ ’After months of speculation and the occasional teaser from Faraday, the startup showed off its  at the Consumer Electronics Show in January.’ ”With it came Faraday’s Variable Platform Architecture and modular battery packs  —   both of which are supposed to help Faraday produce multiple types of vehicles, large and small.” ’We also know that Faraday wants to be more than just an automaker, targeting multiple domains including tech, internet, and entertainment  —   all of which would be delivered to something with four wheels.’ ’But once Faraday Future announced a $1 billion deal to build an assembly plant in Nevada, the questions really started piling up.’ ”Here are two company names you need to know going forward: LeEco, and Leshi Internet Information and Technology. LeEco, formerly known as LeTV, is a Chinese media company and is partnered with Faraday Future. Leshi is a publicly traded corporation in China that includes several of LeEco’s business divisions.” ’The Faraday Future factory deal was announced in December, the same month that trading of Leshi shares was suspended on markets in China.’ ’The Leshi stock suspension worried state officials in Nevada, where policymakers had offered Faraday more than $215 million in tax breaks to get the factory built.’ ’Nevada state treasurer Dan Schwartz  that he asked Faraday Future for about $75 million as collateral for the project.’ ’”I’’m only responsible to the taxpayers of Nevada,” Schwartz said.’ ’Faraday Future executives  that the company would put up a $75 million performance bond for the project. Another $13 million would be paid by   to go toward construction.’ ”As it turns out, Nevada’s concerns about the link between Leshi’s suspended stock and the risk associated with the Faraday factory could be misplaced.” ’The trade suspension was part of the normal course of business in China, as Leshi undergoes some corporate restructuring. The resumption of trade in Leshi stock on the Shenzhen exchange, once expected to happen this week, has been pushed back to May 7, according to a statement from Leshi that was obtained by Business Insider.’ ”The delay is one of many since Leshi’s stock suspension began in December.” ’Despite this, the statement from Leshi says ”business momentum remains strong,” and it cites a ”90% revenue increase to $1. 99 billion in 2015 and a 59% increase in net income. ”’ ”A Faraday Future representative told Business Insider that the moves by   were unrelated to the business of Faraday because LeEco’s billionaire CEO, Jia Yueting, was backing Faraday with personal assets.” ’Business Insider obtained a letter Jia sent to Nevada lawmakers last week that read in part: ”While I am personally backing FF, there is also a diverse funding strategy to help us fully realize our mission and vision. ”’ ”The letter does not specify what that funding strategy is, or who Faraday’s other investors are.” ’Joe Paluska, an   industry expert, says this level of secrecy is unusual. ”Nearly every Silicon Valley startup I know goes out of its way from day one to announce the executive team, the product road map, the market opportunity, and the investor team,” Paluska told Business Insider.’ ’Paluska says if Leshi trading were suspended on the Nasdaq, it would be easier to obtain information from regulators and other sources. ”But because it’’s happening in China,” he said, ”it’’s causing heartburn, no doubt. ”’ ’”When a company like FF suddenly appears  —   with an unknown major (if not exclusive) investor  —   it inserts an additional measure of risk into the equation,” Paluska said.’ ’Nevada’’s officials seem less worried. Gov. Brian Sandoval  last week saying, ”The speed at which you are moving forward . .. is a clear sign of the seriousness of your investment in our state and this facility,” The Las Vegas   reported.’ ”Faraday Future’s representative told Business Insider that the carmaker was moving forward with development of its    production vehicle, which is undergoing   testing in the Midwest. Faraday has said it would bring its car to market sometime in 2017.” ’For all of the attention that the  . ..’