(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the  .) Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1.   Donald Trump has chosen three hawkish loyalists for key posts. They are Senator Jeff Sessions as attorney general, Representative Mike Pompeo as C. I. A. director and retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn as national security adviser. All three are regarded as outliers from conventional Republican thinking, shunned in various ways for viewpoints that were seen as unacceptable or overly partisan. Mr. Sessions, an Alabama conservative, was denied a federal judgeship by the Senate Judiciary Committee in 1986 because of racially charged comments. Mr. Pompeo, above, a member of the House Intelligence Committee, would become one of the most overtly partisan figures to take over the C. I. A.  —   a spy agency that, at least publicly, is supposed to operate above politics and avoid a direct role in policymaking. General Flynn was the angry voice of the national security establishment on the campaign trail. He describes Islam as a political ideology, not a religion, and has even called it a cancer. ____ 2. Mr. Trump agreed to pay $25 million to settle lawsuits stemming from his defunct   education venture, Trump University. Fraud allegations by former students had dogged him for years and hampered his presidential campaign. Above, Mr. Trump announced the establishment of the university in 2005. ____ 3. The World Health Organization declared an end to its global health emergency over the spread of the Zika virus. Zika should now be treated as a continuing problem rather than an exceptional situation, the agency said. The move prompted dismay from some public health experts, especially because Zika is seasonal and summer is just starting in the Southern Hemisphere. Above, a baby born with microcephaly in Brazil. ____ 4. Confederate flags are being displayed across the country, often as a kind of rejoinder to   protesters. Those who have publicly embraced the flag are a small minority of the more than 60 million Americans who voted for Mr. Trump. But  displays of the flag  —   and reports of threats and attacks directed at minorities  —   are forcing Americans to confront vexing questions about race relations. ____ 5. A     windowless, fortified ATT building in downtown Manhattan has been identified as an N. S. A. listening post. Neither ATT nor the National Security Agency would confirm this, but that’s the conclusion of a short film debuting this weekend, based on material provided by Edward Snowden. The film, “Project X,” says the building was   Titanpointe and used to collect communications from international entities with operations in New York. ____ 6. In a new study, scientists using genetic engineering techniques were able to alter photosynthesis, the chemical reaction powering nearly all life on Earth. They increased the productivity of a test plant by 20 percent, raising hopes that they could do the same with food crops. Above, rice seedlings that are part of the experiment in a lab at the University of Illinois. ____ 7. Mr. Trump’s election has upended French politics and given new momentum to the far right. But it could also propel an aging, generally unpopular   politician into the presidency. Alain Juppé is the   heading into a party primary this Sunday. He’s seen as a bulwark against rising populism. ____ 8. Pope Francis’ third set of cardinals will receive their “red hats” at a ceremony on Saturday. Most of the current cardinals were appointed by his more conservative predecessors. The    pontiff is in a race against time to appoint enough   cardinals to ensure that his vision of the church endures after he dies. ___ 9. Pirates are sowing terror along the Amazon River in Brazil. Robberies and boat hijackings have surged as local drug gangs grow stronger. The police are struggling to respond. “There’s no law on the Amazon River,” said one woman whose son was robbed. ____ 10. Here are eight new books we recommend this week. From Wesley Lowery’s reportage on police shootings to Zadie Smith’s new novel, they elucidate and offer escape from the noisy politics of our times. ____ 11. Finally, we built an interactive meal planner for Thanksgiving. Tell us how many guests are coming, their dietary needs and your culinary dreams. In return, we’ll offer recipe ideas and tips for an extraordinary Thanksgiving meal. (And if it’s your first time making Thanksgiving, you may want to head straight to a specially selected batch of simple recipes.) Have a great weekend. ____ Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of the briefing should help. Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p. m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a. m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a. m. Sundays. Want to look back? Here’s last night’s briefing. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes. com.