Donald J. Trump sits high in Trump Tower in New York, spending hours on the phone with friends, television personalities and donors to ask if they know people to recommend for his cabinet. He joins a daily morning transition meeting with his family and staff, but still maintains the routine that sustained him during the campaign: starting his day at 5 a. m. reading The New York Post and The New York Times, then switching on MSNBC’s “Morning Joe,” whose   Joe Scarborough he once publicly savaged but now often seeks out for advice. He gets angry when members of his inner circle get too much of the spotlight, as Rudolph W. Giuliani did when headlines about his millions of dollars in speaking fees appeared as the former New York mayor was publicly promoting himself to be Mr. Trump’s secretary of state. And Mr. Trump has happily resumed control of his Twitter feed, using it to bash targets in the news media and criticize the cast of the Broadway musical “Hamilton” for imploring Vice   Mike Pence, who was in the audience Friday night, to govern on behalf of all Americans. As a parade of job seekers, TV talking heads and statesmen like Henry Kissinger paraded through the lobby of Trump Tower this past week, Mr. Trump ran his presidential transition from his triplex on the 58th floor much the way he ran his campaign and his business before that  —   schmoozing, rewarding loyalty, fomenting infighting among advisers and moving confidently forward through a series of fits and starts. President Obama, who met with Mr. Trump two days after the election, has held out hope that the gravity of the presidency will change the former reality show star. But people close to the      say that he has such   habits formed by fame, wealth and the freedom to have done whatever he wanted that they remain skeptical, at least for now, that he will transform to fit the constraints of the White House. “The presidency may change him eventually, but it’s not going to change him initially,” said Barry Bennett, a former senior adviser to the Trump campaign and a Republican strategist. “He’s a man who likes a lot of input from a lot of people, and he’s someone who has an incredible instinct for the American people. ” People close to Mr. Trump nonetheless say he is more focused now than he was in the first few days after his surprise victory. He was nervous and jolted, they said, by the   Oval Office meeting with Mr. Obama, and for the first time appeared to take in the enormousness of the job. He is proud, they say, that he has so rapidly named people for his cabinet and senior staff, including a group of hawks and   loyalists:  Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama as attorney general,  Michael T. Flynn as national security adviser,  Representative Mike Pompeo of Kansas as director of the C. I. A. and Stephen K. Bannon, the executive chairman of Breitbart News, as chief strategist. “Ahead of schedule, under budget, high energy, trust and loyalty  —   there’s just a pattern to the whole thing,” said Richard F. Hohlt, a longtime Republican consultant in Washington. “That’s his mark of success. ” Loyalty, however, goes only so far. There were initial reports from senior officials within Mr. Trump’s orbit that Mr. Giuliani, Mr. Trump’s most fervent supporter in the campaign’s final weeks, was the leading candidate for secretary of state. But the headlines about Mr. Giuliani’s business interests bothered Mr. Trump, who was urged by several business leaders and some media hosts to reconsider the option. Suddenly, he arranged a Saturday meeting with one of his fiercest critics, Mitt Romney, at Trump National Golf Club in Bedminster, N. J. Transition officials say the meeting with Mr. Romney, a moderate Republican who was the party’s nominee for president in 2012, may not have been simply for show. They say that Mr. Trump believes that Mr. Romney, with his patrician bearing, looks the part of a top diplomat right out of “central casting”  —   the same phrase Mr. Trump used to describe Mike Pence before choosing him as his running mate. Yet Mr. Trump loves the tension and drama of a selection process, and has sought to stoke it. A senior adviser described the meeting, in part, as Mr. Romney simply coming to pay his respects to the   and “kiss his ring. ” Mr. Trump, who has been known to act precipitously against people who have not pleased him, did so again this past week when he removed Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, another longtime loyalist, as the head of his transition. People close to Mr. Trump say that, among other concerns, he determined that Mr. Christie had to go after two former top aides were convicted by a federal jury on all charges stemming from a 2013 scheme to close access lanes at the George Washington Bridge to punish a New Jersey mayor who declined to endorse Mr. Christie for  . And Mr. Trump was angered when Mr. Christie did not defend him after    audio emerged of the candidate boasting about committing sexual assaults. Mr. Trump also likes to surprise, and enjoys the worldwide speculation he sets off with his Twitter posts. And after he became upset by Mr. Giuliani’s headlines, his aides leaked the news that he was considering Gov. Nikki R. Haley of South Carolina for secretary of state  —   speculation that has since faded as Mr. Romney’s prospects have risen. Showmanship remains central to Mr. Trump, who on Thursday held his first meeting as   with a foreign leader, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan. The setting was Mr. Trump’s marble and gold, Louis   residence on the 58th floor, with sweeping views of New York and Central Park. Mr. Trump, with General Flynn at his side, sat next to Mr. Abe under an enormous crystal chandelier as Mr. Trump’s daughter Ivanka looked on. The formality of the setting contrasted with the freewheeling style that Mr. Trump adopts in his cluttered corner office on the 26th floor, where aides, his children and his longtime assistant, Rhona Graff, move busily in and out as he holds court behind his desk. Mr. Trump, who does not use a computer or read online, does keep an eye on the television, particularly the   news about himself. Most information he takes in is in person or on the phone. He is worried, his aides say, that he will not be able to keep his Android phone once he gets to the White House and wonders aloud how isolated he will become  —   and whether he will be able to keep in touch with his friends  —   without it as president. He continues to discuss with the Secret Service how much he can return on weekends to Trump Tower, and still expects to use the Bedminster golf club and his private    resort in Palm Beach, Fla. as vacation retreats. The Trump International Hotel in Washington, just five blocks from the White House, could also take on an outsize role in the Trump administration. His children may stay there when they come to the nation’s capital, and there is chatter that it may supplant Blair House, which traditionally hosts foreign dignitaries visiting the president. But for now, Mr. Trump seems most comfortable running the show from Trump Tower. “I’ve witnessed him as a businessman sitting at the desk I’ve witnessed him as a potential candidate sitting at the desk I’ve witnessed him as a candidate sitting at the desk and I’ve now witnessed him as the   sitting at the desk,” said Kellyanne Conway, a senior adviser. “It’s a comfortable environment,” she added, “but now the stakes are higher. ”