’’ ’In early March, Facebook announced the acquisition of an app only a few people had ever heard of: Masquerade (MSQRD).’ ”Mark Zuckerberg broke the news on Facebook with a video of himself using the product  —    In this case, Zuckerberg donned a filter that would  When the small Masquerade team saw Zuckerberg’s post, it sparked a frenzy of joy. ” ’”We didn’’t know if there would be any public welcome or anything,” Nikolay Davidov of Gagarin Capital, an investor in Masquerade, told Business Insider. ”And then the way he did it was so cool. Everyone was so excited  —   like ’’freaking out’’ excited. ”’ ’The team had two other concrete offers from ” ” companies  —   one abroad and one in the US  —   and interest and conversations with three or four other companies, according to angel investor Yuri Gurski. But he had been hoping Facebook would show interest in the   startup from the beginning. ’ ’”It is the Russian dream” to have Zuckerberg take an interest in your company, he says. Gurski explained that   —   which has since changed its name  —   actually used to be called ”Zuckerberg calls,” alluding to the fact that a call from Facebook’’s CEO means you’’ve reached startup success. Besides being an investor, Gurski is currently the vice president of product at Russian company Mail. ru.’ ’Although Gurski declined to add specifics, a person familiar with the situation tells Business Insider that Twitter was one of the interested parties. ’ ”Other than the initial   over Zuckerberg’s message, the team didn’t take time to celebrate. One of the stipulations of the acquisition was that the MSQRD app would live on in the app store. It would also get integrated into Facebook’s products, meaning that all hands were on deck, hustling away on MSQRD’s next update. ” ’’ ”When the news of Facebook’s acquisition hit, many headlines pointed out the obvious: MSQRD looks just like Snapchat’s Lenses feature.” ’Both features layer funny masks onto your face and allow you to take goofy (or creepy) videos or pictures. ’ ’As both companies  the deal gives Facebook a way to quickly catch up to a feature that its ’ ”The MSQRD team, as you might expect, thinks its tech is better. Gurski says that the startup’s facetracking and   3D ” ’At almost 30, Zatepyakin is the eldest of the three cofounders. Eugene’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’Gurski says that enormous reach and the fact that Facebook still has a ”startup spirit” made it the perfect place for Masquerade.’ ’Gurski and Gagarin Capital collectively invested about $1 million in the startup. He and the team started talking with Facebook thanks to a ”few friends” who had connections there. ’ ’The acquisition was a good deal for both parties, he says. ’ ”One of Masquerade’s advisors,  says he wasn’t surprised by how much interest the young app received from other companies. ” ’”’ ’’ ’In early March, Facebook announced the. ..’