’’ ’When Republican presidential contender Ted Cruz took the stage in a packed room in Midtown Manhattan on Wednesday, he led with a platitude that raised eyebrows.’ ’”God bless the great State of New York,” the Texas senator said.’ ’The introduction was a far cry from Cruz’’s invocation of ”New York values” as a slight against rival Donald Trump in front of Iowa voters in January.’ ’On the heels of his victory in the Utah caucuses in the wee hours of Wednesday morning, Cruz declared that New York would be ”a battleground” between himself and Trump.’ ”He also previewed how he planned to flip the script in Trump’s home state: undermining Trump’s credibility as a conservative and working to chip away at Trump’s lead in downstate areas like New York City.” ’During his speech, Cruz repeatedly hammered Trump. Among other things, he listed various Democratic lawmakers whom Trump donated money to in past elections.’ ’”Donald Trump over and over again has supported Andrew Cuomo and Hillary Clinton and Anthony Weiner and Eliot Spitzer,” Cruz said. ”So next time you think of all the disastrous policies that have been foisted on New York, you can thank Donald Trump for bankrolling those efforts. ”’ ’While speaking with reporters after the event, Cruz returned to the topic:’ ’Cruz peppered his normal stump speech with New   themes, criticizing the ban on hydraulic fracturing in upstate New York and hitting Mayor Bill de Blasio’’s tense relationship with   advocates. He further touted de Blasio’’s criticism of his plan to enlist   officers to patrol ”Muslim neighborhoods. ”’ ’”I arrived in New York yesterday and Mayor Bill de Blasio promptly held a press conference to denounce me. So I must be doing something right,” Cruz said to the . ”I’’ve got to say, if Mayor de Blasio ever holds a press conference saying, ’’I agree with Ted,’’ that’’ll be the instant I hang it up and realize I’’ve gone terribly, terribly wrong. ”’ ”Later in the speech, Cruz returned to the critique, praising the New York Police Department officers who  in protest at two officers’ funerals last year.” ’”When the heroes of the NYPD stood up and turned their backs on Mayor de Blasio, they spoke not just for the men and women of New York, but also for the men and women of this nation,” Cruz said.’ ’’ ’Despite his optimism, Cruz faces a massive uphill battle in the state. The few recent polls of likely New York   voters found Trump with a .’ ”The senator is nevertheless working hard in the state to stop Trump from hitting the 50% ceiling in individual congressional districts that would help the Manhattan billionaire win the majority of the state’s 95 delegates. If Trump dominates in New York, then he’d come significantly closer to clinching the 1, 237 delegates needed to secure the GOP nomination.” ”Gavin Wax, a Cruz campaign New York state director, told Business Insider that Cruz’s plan relies on pulling delegates away from Trump in downstate areas where he said Trump has little institutional support.” ’”We think we can pull a few delegates here and there, especially downstate where there were a lot of Rubio supporters who are coming on either publicly or behind the scenes,” Wax said, referring to Florida Sen. Marco Rubio, a former candidate.’ ’Wax said that Cruz would be back in the state before the April 19 primary, and his wife, Heidi Cruz, would be holding a March 29 event in Sheepshead Bay, a Brooklyn neighborhood, as well as events in Staten Island and on Long Island.’ ’He also said that the campaign also wants to win a symbolic victory in Queens, the borough Trump grew up in.’ ’”We think we can make some headlines here in New York, especially Queens. We think it’’d make a great headline to win there,” Wax said.’ ’Cruz appears to be shoring up at least some institutional support in the state.’