’All of us like to believe that, if other people paid only more attention and understood the issues better, then they would agree with our   positions on politics.’ ’But the left indulges in this idea more than the right.’ ’For example, Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders told Rachel Maddow on Wednesday that, if the media held only Republicans accountable, then they would get just ”5, 10% of the vote. ”’ ”Here,  Mother Jones’ Tim Murphy, is :” ’Not to labor the obvious, but this is not how it works.’ ’For one thing, Republicans won a lot of elections before there was saturation of Donald Trump coverage, a recent phenomenon that  in   polling.’ ’But more broadly, when people disagree with you on politics, it is not always  —   or even usually  —   because they are misinformed. People have real differences of values and preferences, not just different perceptions of how the world works, how high tax rates are, or whether sea levels are rising.’ ”It’s possible Sanders’ ideas would be more popular if there were more scrutiny of candidates’ policy ideas, though I’m not sure of that.” ”Voters might be more inclined toward   healthcare if they realized that advanced countries with   systems achieve similar health outcomes to the US at lower costs. Or they might become less inclined to support his plan if they knew that  think it will be more expensive than he’s claimed  —   or if they realized that it  even at the current,   cost estimates.” ’In any case, whether greater voter focus on policy platforms would be favorable to the left or not, it would not generate overwhelming majority support for the Sanders agenda like Sanders thinks it would. Many people would continue to believe, for broad philosophical reasons, that a larger government collecting more taxes and interfering more in the economy is a bad idea.’ ”Sanders’ mistaken belief that people would overwhelmingly agree with him if they only really paid attention is a major flaw in his theory of social change. He says that his election would constitute a political revolution, in which seemingly fringe ideas become mainstream and implementable.” ”That wouldn’t happen, because voters would continue to have a wide range of policy preferences, and many voters would continue in particular to object strongly to changes in how their healthcare is delivered.” ’All of us like to believe that, if other people. ..’