’Republican presidential frontrunner Donald Trump had a fairly contentious interview this weekend on ”Fox News Sunday. ”’ ”In the pretaped interview that aired Sunday, Fox News anchor Chris Wallace pressed Trump again and again on some of the recent firestorms dogging his campaign, including his campaign manager’s  his  leading up to next Tuesday’s Wisconsin primary, his   on abortion policy, and more.” ’”This may sound harsh, but are you in the process of blowing your campaign for president?” Wallace asked Trump in the opening question.’ ’”I don’’t think so,” Trump replied.’ ’He continued:’ ”Wallace then jumped into Trump’s  among female voters.” ’”In the latest Fox poll, 67% of women nationally now have an unfavorable view of you. If you had purposely set out to turn off voters, especially women voters, over the last two weeks, I’’m not sure you could have done a better job,” he told Trump.’ ’Trump shrugged off the question.’ ’”All I can do is do what I do,” he replied.’ ’But the mogul suggested he regretted  of the wife of his top GOP rival, Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas. Trump recently told New York Times columnist Maureen Dowd ’ ’”Was this my best week? I guess not. I could have done without the retweet, et cetera, et cetera,” Trump told Wallace.’ ’’ ”Wallace soon turned the conversation to Trump’s comments last week on who would be punished in a hypothetical world in which abortion were illegal in the US. Trump initially said the women who have abortions  but then walked that back and said only those who perform abortions should be penalized.” ’”You did something pretty remarkable. You offended both the   and the   movement with one statement,” Wallace said. ”Do you agree it was a mistake?” he asked.’ ’”I would have rather answered it in a different manner, yeah. I would have rather answered it in a different manner,” Trump said.’ ’A number of other tough questions were fired off against Trump.’ ’Wallace asked Trump if he had a ”learning curve” on policy. He asked if Trump, who called NATO ”obsolete,” if he was aware of how many of the military alliance’’s soldiers died in Afghanistan. He asked why Trump’’s campaign manager, who was recently charged with misdemeanor battery, didn’’t simply apologize for grabbing a reporter. And so on.’ ’’ ’Republican presidential frontrunner Donald. ..’