’The Federal Reserve will take center stage this week, as the rest of the economic data calendar is fairly quiet after a   week.’ ”There’s a historic event in New York on Thursday featuring Fed chair Janet Yellen and all her living predecessors: Paul Volcker, Alan Greenspan and Ben Bernanke. It would be the first time the four living Fed chiefs have spoken on a public stage.” ”Also, we’ll hear from four voting members of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) during the week.” ’Referring to the minutes of the Fed’’s March meeting due Wednesday, Wells Fargo’’s Sam Bullard wrote: ”Indeed, investors will be paying close attention to the evidence that led all officials to cut their median interest rate projections in 2016 from four hikes to two. ”’ ”Yellen’s comments last week in a reinforced this dovish view, lifting stocks and sinking the dollar.” ’The labor market is still in top shape: We got the  on Friday which showed the economy added more jobs than expected. The data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics showed a gain of 215, 000 nonfarm payrolls. Wages inched higher, by 0. 3%    and 2. 3%     both more than expected. ’ ’Here’’s Deutsche Bank chief US economist Joseph LaVorgna: ”The story remains the same: The labor market continues to generate relatively solid job gains despite what is likely to be another quarter of soft   economic activity. If aggregate demand does not accelerate soon, we are worried that firms will dramatically slow their pace of hiring in order to stabilize profit margins, which we believe deteriorated further last quarter. ”’ ’”The underlying employment details of the report were less robust,” cautioned LaVorgna. He points out the drop in manufacturing jobs by 29, 000, the largest   decline since December 2009. Also, mining jobs fell 12, 000 in an 18th straight monthly slump. ’ ’The unemployment rate rose to 5% from 4. 9% but this was largely due to a rise in the labor force participation rate to 63%. This was the   rise in the series, reflecting the surge of Americans back into the labor force. But even as plenteous jobs make the workforce attractive, . And so, some economists are forecasting that the rate is set to decline in the long run, especially driven by retiring baby boomers.’ ”Manufacturing expanded for the first time in seven months: Following a series of solid regional reports, the final, national reading of the Institute of Supply Management’s index confirmed the sector’s improvement in March. The index, at 51. 8, climbed above the   threshold of 50, reflecting the strongest activity since last July. The industry has been impacted by the strong dollar’s drag on exports and the energy sector’s woes. ” ’Here’’s RBC Capital Markets chief US economist Tom Porcelli: ”The bifurcation between strong domestic growth and soft   sectors of the US economy has been a prevalent narrative in recent quarters. Recent trends suggest a turning point for the latter is in the offing . .. Survey respondent comments were overwhelmingly positive, with words such as “booming” used to characterize activity. We expect the unwind of what had been an important source of weakness will allow the firmer underlying trends in the US economy to reassert themselves and look for constructive topline activity near 3% over the Q2   Q4 period. ”’ ”Saudi Arabia may not participate in an oil   agreement: A meeting between OPEC and   members, during which a freeze agreement could be reached, is scheduled for April 17. The country’s deputy crown prince Mohammad bin Salman told Bloomberg on Friday that Saudi would only agree to a freeze if Iran also does. Iran is trying to revamp its exports, following the removal of economic sanctions that prevented it from doing so. The comment from Saudi helped push oil prices lower on Friday, with West Texas Intermediate crude oil falling 4% to as low as $36. 64 per barrel, and erasing its    gains. ” ’”We doubt that this is Saudi Arabia’s final word on the subject and still think that some sort of compromise is likely,” wrote Capital Economics’’ head of commodities research Julian Jessop. ”For example, a deal could be done on the basis that Iran would increase output by a certain amount, but no more.” ’ ’ Economists estimate that orders fell 1. 8% in February, following a 1. 6% gain in the prior month. Excluding the transportation category, the forecast is  . 5%. The advance durable goods report showed a decline in civilian aircraft, and core capital goods orders and shipments. ”’ ’The total trade balance is largely driven by goods trade, and the advance goods report this week showed deterioration. Both imports and exports grew at a nice clip, but the level change in imports exceeded exports. On the services side, we anticipate modest gains in both exports and imports as well. ”’ ’ Economists estimate that the final March reading comes in at 51. 2, slightly improved from the flash print of 51. ’ ’ Economists estimate an index of 54. 1 in March. ”This would suggest modest acceleration in growth,” BAML economists wrote. ”The services sector has remained resilient amid increased uncertainty and weakness on the goods side of the economy. With manufacturing now looking better, the ISM nonmanufacturing index should also benefit. ”’ ’ Economists estimate that there were 5. 57 million job openings in February, pushing this metric further towards record levels. But hirings slowed as openings increased in February. And, the quit rate, a gauge of worker confidence, fell to 2% in January from 2. 2% in December. Here’’s Wells Fargo: ”Given the    February nonfarm payroll performance, the consensus expects to see some improvement in the JOLTS report which would suggest the labor market remains on a positive track. ”’ ’ Minutes of the FOMC’’s March meeting will be released. Here’’s RBC: ”’ ’In our view, an increase in claims to around 300k would presage a significant slowdown in the labor market and substantially slower output growth. Unless and until this occurs, however, claims remain a bright spot on the growth horizon. ”’ ’ Economists estimate that consumer credit rose to $14. 9 billion in February from $10. 538 billion in January. ’ ’The stock market enjoyed hearing a dovish Fed this week. ’ ”Following the March statement that cut the FOMC’s expectation of rate hikes this year to two from four, Yellen restated Tuesday that the Fed is in no rush. The S&P 500 closed at its highest level of the year on that day” ’’ ’his suggests the Fed doesn’t have a war to wage with the   bond market in the coming years. If the 10yr Tsy yield stays under 3% for the rest of this cycle with inflation expectations near 2% then   real interest rate will stay under 1%. Currently, the 10yr TIPS yield is ~20bp, a low for recent years. This would support a 5. 0% real cost of equity for the overall S&P 500 or 20 S&P PE, certainly ex. Energy & Financials, versus our 5. 5% standing real cost of equity estimate. ”’ ”However, the Fed’s emphasis on the risks the global economy poses to America makes it harder for investors to ’Fed watch’ for clues on what it may do next. ” ’Here’’s RBC’’s Tom Porcelli: ”With this Fed it is not just about the data flow. It is about events. It is about headlines. And you cannot forecast those things. They just happen. And therein lies the problem with forecasting the Fed’s next move. Think about China devaluing back in August. So it’s not enough to say “this particular data point looks better” when the Fed is in a reactionary mode. It is the unknown events in the context of a soft global backdrop that may matter more to this skittish Fed. ”’ ’Get updates in your inbox.’ ’Subscribe to Monday Scouting Report and never miss an update!’ ’The Federal Reserve will take center stage this. ..’