’’ ’With the NFL Draft less than four weeks away, a new player is making a run as the potential No. 1 pick.’ ’In recent weeks,    defensive back Jalen Ramsey has been sneaking up NFL draft boards and making a case as the top pick.’ ’In   usually around the No.   pick. However, after an impressive pro day, the Florida State defensive back suddenly finds himself earning consideration as the best player in the draft, which could have him going to the Titans with the first pick.’ ’While Ramsey is mostly seen as a cornerback, at    210 pounds, he can move around the field, including playing as a     safety, guarding slot receivers, or stopping runs. This versatility is what makes him extremely appealing to teams and perhaps too good to pass up.’ ’And if Ramsey goes first, it will demonstrate the direction the NFL is heading.  the number of snaps where a team had five or more defensive backs on the field at the same time has been rising for seven years. Additionally, last season, the NFL saw a record in touchdown passes and completion rate. With passing on the rise, teams need a player capable of making defensive plays.’ ”Ramsey might not just be capable of making plays  —   he could have   skills.  a defensive back hasn’t been taken with the first pick since 1970. Yet told Glennon that Ramsey that the Titans should consider him.” ’’ ’Pro Football Focus, which had Ramsey as the fourth pick in February, now has him as . They gushed over his potential, saying:’ ’ Ramsey wowed at his pro day, so much so that a team drafting later in the top 10 told him, ”Guess we won’’t have a shot at you. ”’ ’Ramsey showed off his 4. 41    time and his   vertical in drills:’ ’’ ’ ’t’t’tJumpman.  ’ ’Even current NFL passers understand the affect Ramsey could have. Jameis Winston, who played with Ramsey at FSU,  that the Tampa Bay Bucs should move up to draft Ramsey, saying ”People talk about his position. But Jalen is the best cornerback, safety  …     I will take a pay cut to play with him again. He has a fierce mentality. ”’ ”Taking Ramsey first would be a leap for the Titans, particularly because teams have had success at finding cornerbacks late in the draft. However, Ramsey is making his case, and the Titans, who are rumored to be shopping their pick, might become too enamored with Ramsey’s skills to pass him up.” ’With the NFL Draft less than four weeks away, a. ..’