”The world is about to have a good   glut on its hands, courtesy of China’s problematic economy. ” ’And the world is already starting to feel the pain.’ ”The problem is that China’s got too many companies producing things like coal and steel, and the   enterprises (SOEs) doing this have racked up debt that’s now eating up their profits. ” ’The government is trying to shift the whole economy from its dependence on manufacturing, and it has already said that  in some of these industries are going to be laid off in the next few years.’ ”But China can’t just shutter these companies overnight, because they still need to pay back the banks holding their debt and it would be an unmitigated disaster for employment. ” ”So these products have to go somewhere, and that means they’re going to be exported to the world. There are a bunch of industries that  too. China’s ” ”The steel industry already offers a good example of what might be in store because China has made the most progress in dealing with that industry’s problems.” ”Let’s put it this way: You know a problem is serious when  are allowed to talk about it in blunt terms. Here’s Xinhua:” ”This is the government getting the people ready for job losses and, in some cases, relocation. Former steelworkers are already being turned into security guards and cleaners. Otherwise, workers will be out of a job, collecting checks from federal authorities. So problem acknowledged, right? Yes, but it doesn’t mean anything’s going to happen soon (back to that needing to pay down the debt issue). China’s biggest steelmaker, Baosteel, is still planning to ” ”And all of that supply is about to be unloaded onto a world that doesn’t really need it right now.” ”Here’s Macquarie Group:” ’’ ’Of course, what this will do is keep the price of steel (and any commodity where this dynamic is at play) really low.’ ”Obviously, China isn’t the only country that makes steel.” ”That means other steelmakers aren’t loving what’s going on. US Steel, for example, said on Wednesday  laying off 25% of its nonunion workforce.” ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’The world is about to have a good  . ..’