’’ ’This story was delivered to BI Intelligence ”” subscribers. To learn more and subscribe, please .’ ’Since launching last July, Jet. com has been steadily growing its sale numbers. However, a majority of the sales are coming from new shoppers. This means that the   is failing to convert shoppers into loyal customers. ’ ”Overall, Jet. com’s US sales have been growing by an average 28% per month from September 2015 to February 2016,  Slice Intelligence. And its February sales were more than 50% higher than September. But it still lags its biggest competitor, Amazon. And until Jet. com begins creating loyal customers, it will remain behind the company it claims to undercut on prices across the board. ” ’This poses a problem for the company as it approaches its   anniversary  —   especially after abandoning its subscription business model which would likely have been a big driver of repeat shoppers. And because Jet. com folded the subscription model within the     period for members, it drove no revenue from membership fees.’ ”But a big part of this problem also lies in Jet. com’s visibility  —   81% of US consumers are unaware that the   even exists,  Prosper Insights & Analytics. This is despite the company investing $100 million towards marketing, specifically aimed at reaching millennials, as .” ’So while Jet. com is attempting to build customer loyalty, it is still struggling to get in front of consumers in the first place. And at this point in the game, Jet. com should be focusing on building customer loyalty.’ ”It’s clear that Jet. com needs to employ some new strategies, perhaps some of the strategies that   companies have been using successfully in the last few years. Retailers have been shifting their strategies to keep up with consumers’ habits, and those that have not have struggled to keep up.” ”Cooper Smith, senior research analyst at  Business Insider’s premium research service, has compiled  that looks at some of the top trends affecting retailers at each stage of the purchase funnel and how they’re responding to those shifts.” ’’ ’Here are some of the key takeaways:’ ’In full, the report:’