’’ ’A spate of more than 100 suicide attempts have devastated the Canadian aboriginal community of Attawapiskat over the last nine months.’ ’Attawapiskat Chief Bruce Shisheesh  after 11 suicide attempts occurred on Saturday alone. There have been more than 100 attempts and at least one death since September, Shisheesh told CBC.’ ’There are numerous possible explanations for the crisis. Like many other First Nations communities in Canada, Attawapiskat has suffered in recent years from infrastructural problems such as   and housing shortages, sewage backups, and floods.’ ”Ontario Regional Chief Isadore Day told Business Insider that Attawapiskat’s poverty and lack of economic opportunities are to blame for the overwhelming hopelessness many residents feel toward the future. Without the resources available to other Canadians, problems such as addiction, violence, and depression pervade the populations.” ’”Other Canadians have clean, potable drinking water. They’’re not living in overcrowded situations, they’’ve got food security, they’’ve got summer employment,” he said. ”You can see how education, careers, and no infrastructure  —   no economy  —   can certainly lead to a deep sense of hopelessness among the young people. ”’ ’The poverty in Attawapiskat is stark. The  rate hovers around 80% while its graduation rate is around 30% according to media reports.’ ”Canada’s House of Commons convened in an  on Tuesday evening to discuss the suicide crisis, which has brought international attention to the remote community of 2, 000 in northern Ontario.” ’Minister of Health Jane Philpott said at the House of Commons debate. ”’ ’Charlie Angus, the member of Parliament for the district that includes Attawapiskat, said at the debate that the community’’s crisis has” leaving Canadians and   wondering ”how a country as rich as Canada can leave so many young children and young people behind. ”’ ’’ ’In one quote read to the legislators by Parliament member Todd Doherty, Shisheesh said that he is homeless and implored them to direct resources to the beleaguered community.’ ’”How would you feel if you were leading Attawapiskat and you didn’’t have a home?” he said. ”I feel for my people. I know what they are going through. When you don’’t have a nice home, a nice place to sleep . .. it gets depressing. ”’ ’Health Canada dispatched a crisis team of 18 health workers,   workers, and police officers to Attawapiskat, officials told media on Tuesday.’ ’’ ’’ ’Day said that the despair plaguing the Attawapiskat youths today can be traced back 140 years to  a set of laws and policies that govern First Nations communities. The act, which marked its anniversary on Tuesday, may as well be called ”Canada’’s apartheid” for the damage and oppression it has inflicted upon the country’’s aboriginal population, Day said.’ ’The act establishes government control over much of First Nations life, including land and resources, but is perhaps most commonly known for its imposition of . Under the school system, tens of thousands of First Nations children were compelled to attend schools designed to make them forget their languages and cultures. In 2008, then Prime Minister Stephen Harper formally apologized for the schools, where many students suffered abuse.’ ”Attawapiskat’s abject poverty is striking considering that a lucrative diamond mine sits only 55 miles from the communityThe Victor Mine, operated by De Beers and yielding  of diamonds per year, according to the Ontario government, provides some  to Attawapiskat. But Day said that 80% of the reserve’s revenues are   and are often reallocated when any excess money is found. Under the Indian Act, the federal government .” ’Day argues that the treaties signed by First Nations were meant to further economic development, but instead they reap little wealth from those arrangements.’ ’”Our people entered into these treaties in good faith, as business partners to share the land and to share the wealth and resources,” he said. ”Well, why is it that our people are starving? Why are they killing themselves? Why are they stuck in overcrowded situations? And why can’’t they have access to a shared benefit from the wealth of those lands? ”’ ’Day says that the   solution will require the government to provide more resources to First Nations communities as well as give them more authority over their own jurisdictions and, ultimately, the right to  .’ ’”We can throw money about here all we like, but we’’re still going to see people that feel hopelessness,” Day said. ”We’’ve got to deal with the broader issues, the bigger infrastructure issues. Those are going to allow First Nations to participate in society. ”’ ’A spate of more than 100 suicide attempts have. ..’