’’ ’’ ’’ ’could ’ ’As I was saying: incorrect. Trump will almost certainly finish primary season with the most votes, states won, and delegates to his name. But he has not won anything since Arizona’s primary on March 22 and, in the meantime, he has lost the Wisconsin primary and has been outhustled on the ground by Sen. Ted Cruz in Colorado’s convention delegate hunt.’ ’His disorganization in selecting loyal convention delegates from the states he’s already won means he has little chance of winning the nomination if it extends beyond a first convention ballot, and winning on the first ballot will likely rest on his ability to woo some   number of scattered unbound delegates to his corner.’ ’Though the  the possibility  despite having the most votes, states won, and delegates to his name has emerged, setting up the likelihood of a  Republican National Convention in Cleveland.’ ’After all that, it returns us to that original question: How would Donald Trump cope with a loss, or as he might call it were anyone else in his shoes at this point, a “choking?” How would he spin such a convention defeat to prevent his brand and his legacy —  because he has earned himself a sizable legacy in modern American political history, regardless of what happens next —  from forever being associated not just with defeat, but with an inability to close out the greatest deal of his life?’ ’’ ’This eventuality is what he seems to be planning for, consciously or subconsciously, if you read anything into his recent bromides against the “rigged” system of delegate selection, formalized Thursday in an  for the Wall Street Journal. In it, he attacks the idiosyncratic Colorado delegate selection process. Republican insiders have  this as nothing more than whining.’ ’The rules were put in place last year, they say; if he didn’t prepare, then he has no grounds on which to take issue. To his supporters, though, . And they have a point. Why couldn’t Colorado have just held a primary instead of skipping straight to district and state conventions that allow    types to dominate? Was 34 delegates for Ted Cruz, however impressive a feat of organization, really the most accurate representation of Colorado Republicans’ political preferences?’ ’Trump is cleverly trying to spin his apparent lack of organization into a virtue of his candidacy: that the rules are complicated by design to prevent an outsider from succeeding. “In recent days, something all too predictable has happened: Politicians furiously defended the system,” the writer writing under the name of “Donald J. Trump” explains in the Journal.  “ ‘These are the rules,’ we were told over and over again.’ ’If the ‘rules’ can be used to block Coloradans from voting on whether they want better trade deals, or stronger borders, or an end to     in Congress —  well, that’s just the system and we should embrace it. ”’ ’“Let me ask America a question,” the writer continues. “How has the ‘system’ been working out for you and your family? ”’ ’The column goes on to introduce a new campaign promise. If president, Trump will “work closely with the chairman of the Republican National Committee and top GOP officials to reform our election policies. Together, we will restore the faith —  and the franchise —  of the American people. ” (Presumably there are few plans within either the Trump camp or RNC to cease  but that’s another story. )’ ’’ ’’ ’will ’ ’’ ’’ ’One of the reasons that so many incorrect. ..’