”Sen. Elizabeth Warren doesn’t appear to take kindly to Sen. Ted Cruz’s complaints about the difficulties of running for president.” ’In a series of tweets on Tuesday afternoon, Warren blasted the Republican presidential candidate for saying in an email to supporters that he was ”making sacrifices” on behalf of voters.’ ’”Are you kidding me, @TedCruz? We’’re supposed to pity you because trying to be the leader of the free world is hard?! 2 words: Boo hoo,” Warren, a Democratic senator and influential voice in her party, wrote in one tweet.’ ’Warren ripped the Texas senator over his opposition to mandatory raising the minimum wage.’ ’’ ’’ ” ’t’t’tKnow whose health is limited? Workers   no paid leave who can’t stay home when sick or caring for kids.  won’t support it. ’t’t” ’’ ’ ’t’t’tKnow whose sleep is limited? Working parents who stay up worrying about getting kids thru college   big debt.  blocked . ’t’t’ ’’ ’ ’t’t’tKnow who gets no personal time? People who work 2 min wage jobs to support their families.  opposes giving them a raise. ’t’t’ ’’ ” ’t’t’tKnow who gets no family time, ? Moms   unfair schedules who drop kids at daycare & find their hrs cancelled.  won’t help. ’t’t” ’’ ’ ’t’t’tKnow who’s facing ”constant attacks,” ? Hardworking American immigrants, Muslims, LGBT folks, women. Your constant attacks. ’t’t’ ’’ ” ’t’t’tAnd ? Working people work more, get paid less, can’t save, get mistreated, struggle with illness & family   but they don’t whine. ’t’t” ’’ ” ’t’t’tThey don’t throw tantrums or try to shut down their workplace because they don’t get their way   & then turn around & demand promotions. ’t’t” ’’ ” ’t’t’tYou chose to run for President, . You chose to make your “sacrifices. ” Working people don’t have a choice. ’t’t” ’’ ’ ’t’t’tHey : Maybe you should spend less time complaining about your ”significant sacrifices”   & more time doing something about theirs. ’t’t’ ”Though Warren has abstained from endorsing in the Democratic race, she’s become increasingly critical of the Republican presidential candidates.” ’Last month, the senator referred to Republican presidential frontrunner Donald Trump as a ”,” blasting the   magnate’’s business record and campaign rhetoric.’ ”Sen. Elizabeth Warren doesn’t appear to. ..”