  Donald J. Trump’s foundation has acknowledged that it may have run afoul of   rules that guard against using money meant for charity to benefit principals of the organization, according to its 2015 tax filing. On the filing, the  ’s charity, the Donald J. Trump Foundation, checked “yes” to answer a question about whether its resources had been directed or used to benefit a “disqualified person”  —   meaning one of the organization’s central people. The tax filing offers new details about Mr. Trump’s charitable giving, which became the subject of intense scrutiny during his presidential campaign after news reports raised questions about whether he had followed through on pledges he made to donate money and his lack of financial support for the foundation. The Washington Post, which first reported the   admission on the 2015 form, earlier reported that Mr. Trump had used $258, 000 from the charity to settle legal disputes involving his businesses, possibly violating   provisions. A spokeswoman for Mr. Trump did not answer messages seeking comment on the filing. Mr. Trump and his advisers have defended his charitable practices in the past, noting that Mr. Trump has made significant donations personally and through the foundation. Lawyers for the foundation uploaded the tax filing on Friday to Guidestar, a national database of nonprofits, and it was then made publicly available, according to representatives from Guidestar. It is unclear whether the Internal Revenue Service has received the filings. The 2015 form showed that Mr. Trump donated a total of $616, 000 that year to his nonprofit foundation, his first contribution to it since 2008 and his largest donation in a decade. The payments were made through two Trump businesses: the Trump Corporation ($566, 000) and Trump Productions LLC ($50, 000). The next largest contribution that year was $150, 000 from a foundation connected to Victor Pinchuk, a Ukrainian steel magnate. Mr. Pinchuk has been a major donor to the Clinton Foundation, a relationship that drew scrutiny during the presidential campaign as an example of Hillary Clinton’s complex ties to foreign business interests. Douglas E. Schoen, a senior adviser to the board of Mr. Pinchuk’s foundation, said in an email that the payment to Mr. Trump’s charity was “in support of appearance he did by video link at a conference Mr. Pinchuk’s foundation organizes every year in September in Kiev, Ukraine. ” Mr. Schoen said that Mr. Pinchuk and Mr. Trump had met many years ago in New York, prompting the invitation for Mr. Trump to speak at the September 2015 conference. He said the two did not have any business relationship. During the speech, Mr. Trump praised Mr. Pinchuk and Ukrainians, saying, “You have had to endure a tremendous amount, and I just think it is all going to work out well in the future for the Ukraine. ” Mr. Trump’s charity reported paying out $896, 000 in grants for 2015, some of which was disclosed during the campaign. The donations included support for health causes like cancer research and the American Red Cross, as well as $50, 000 for the private school attended by Mr. Trump’s youngest son, Barron. In late September, Eric T. Schneiderman, New York’s attorney general, ordered the charity to cease   in the state after his office found that the foundation was not properly registered to solicit donations. Mr. Schneiderman’s office is currently investigating Mr. Trump’s foundation to determine whether it is in compliance with state laws.