’’ ’When Chief Bruce Shisheesh declared a state of emergency on April 9 for the suicide crisis in the Canadian aboriginal community of Attawapiskat, the news caused an international uproar.’ ’’ ’Canadian media descended on the Attawapiskat First Nation, and provincial and federal officials quickly made plans to fly out to the northern Ontario reserve.’ ’On April 13, the Ontario government  to the community. The prior evening, Canada’s House of Commons convened an emergency   debate on the unfolding crisis.’ ’Barely two weeks later, many Attawapiskat residents say they’re already wary of the government’s promises to solve the community’s suicide crisis.’ ’“They want to look good . .. I’m not really optimistic until I see concrete steps taken from the Prime Minister’s office about his promises for renewed relationships,”  Jackie   an Attawapiskat resident who works as a photographer, told Business Insider. “This is just the tip. We need to address other physical and social infrastructure if we’re going to recover or heal from these oppressive conditions. ”’ ’In a series of tweets sent this week, Shisheesh criticized the government for not adequately providing Attawapiskat with adequate mental health services in the past, and prompted Prime Minister Justin Trudeau to visit the community.’ ’’ ” ’t’t’tWill Feds deliver their promise? Youth Center for young people. ..for a long time Gov’t has failed the First Nations across Canada’t’t” ’’ ’ ’t’t’t. Attawapiskat is waiting for your visit, remember u mentioned reconciliation & now is the time 2 demonstrate your good will. ’t’t’ ’ In March, 28 attempted suicide in the community of 2, 000. The crisis came to a head on April 9, when a staggering 11 attempts occurred within 24 hours.’ ’Despite the emergency declaration and the   crisis team deployed by Health Canada,  attempted suicide last Friday, according to Reuters. It was just days after police broke up a suicide pact between a dozen or so teenagers.’ ’Canada’s indigenous affairs minister Carolyn Bennett and Charlie Angus, a member of parliament representing the area that includes Attawapiskat, arrived in Attawapiskat on Monday afternoon to meet with Shisheesh and the community’s newly established youth council. The officials promised the community a  but didn’t attach an immediate dollar figure.’ ’  was unimpressed.’ ’“You know politicians. They look at their watches and they just want to come and go,”   said. “If she was serious about telling us, ‘Your identity is important,’ how come she didn’t talk about changes to our education system? ”’ ’ ’s   Sheridan Hookimaw was 13 years old when she took her own life last October. The girl’s suicide was the only successful attempt to occur during the   crisis. ’ ’A new youth center in Attawapiskat was far from the only thing Sheridan needed,   said. The teenager suffered from an array of illnesses, including diabetes, arthritis, obesity and asthma. Beyond that, Sheridan was homeless, according to   living in a packed   ”” with 20 other people.’ ’Like many First Nations communities in Canada, Attawapiskat has been plagued by   infrastructural issues. Flooding and sewage backups have prompted emergency declarations in the past,  leading to severe   and housing shortages.’ ’The residents’ frustration was summed up by Robert Sutherland, an Attawapiskat youth who  during her public meeting with the youth council on the priorities of the Canadian government.’ ’“Tell me why we First Nations live in third world conditions,” Sutherland said, according to the Canadian Press. “Why is it so easy for the government to welcome refugees and offer them   citizenship in our country? When will Canada wake up and open its eyes to First Nations communities? ”’ ’’ ”The Canadian government has acknowledged the complexity of Attawapiskat’s problems, but many First Nations residents say they’re tired of rhetoric, and are waiting to see concrete solutions. ” ’“We know that as we move forward, communities like” Bennett and Angus said in a joint statement following their visit. “We have to work together to put the interests of our young people first and ensure their voices are heard. ”’ ’Charles Hookimaw says that he has heard similar words before. The Attawapiskat First Nation member grew up in in the community, but moved to North Bay, Ontario several years ago, in part because of the reserve’s housing shortage. ’ ’According to Hookimaw, assistance from the government frequently comes tightly controlled and with strings attached in the way of fees, administrative obstacles, and bureaucracy. ’ ’“Even if the federal government provides let’s say 50 houses each year for five years, the community would have to go through a whole bunch of red tape in terms of allocating the land, the property. You need engineering, you need everything to go through approval, you need a plan to present,” he told Business Insider. “It just goes on and on and never ends. ”’ ”Hookimaw pointed to confusion surrounding the $2 million in assistance offered to the community as typical of Attawapiskat’s interactions with the provincial and federal governments. The assistance money will not be handled directly by community. Instead, the Ontario government announced it will fund a “youth regional coordination unit” and be supplied to the Mushkegowuk Council, an umbrella organization that represents six other First Nation communities in northern Ontario. ” ”This isn’t the first the First Nations communities have experienced suicide crises. In 2013, the nearby community of  and seven deaths within a year, CBC reported. To fight the crisis, the federal government funded an $800, 000  to the regional health authority that serves Attawapiskat. However, the program was “sidetracked” from its goal of coordinating the area’s fragmented mental health services, and resulted in little more than two   sessions for workers and a contact list of regional service providers, the Globe and Mail reported.” ’Hookimaw says he tries not to be too cynical when it comes to his home community, but Attawapiskat’s problems run too deep for the superficial solutions the government proposes.’ ’“For proper housing, safe drinking water  —   it’s going to take maybe 10, 20 years. The damage has been done, and it’s going to take awhile to rebuild again,” he said. “We will get through this with or without the government. ”’ ’When Chief Bruce Shisheesh declared a state of. ..’