ISTANBUL  —   The Turkish government on Tuesday expanded its crackdown on political opponents, dismissing an additional 15, 000 civil servants from their jobs and shutting down 375 organizations, including nine more news outlets. More than 100, 000 public workers, including police officers, teachers, soldiers and others, had already been fired for what the authorities said were connections to a failed  coup on July 15 or to terrorists. The new wave of dismissals came on a morning when the European Parliament was scheduled to debate freezing accession talks for Turkey to join the European Union. It was one of several recent indicators that the government of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan was abandoning hope of success in that process, which has dragged on for 11 years. Mr. Erdogan has been defiant, saying it was time that the European Union made up its mind on Turkey’s membership, and threatening to hold a nationwide referendum on whether to continue the talks. A recent European Commission report expressed concern that Turkey’s worsening record on human rights and press freedom was making accession increasingly difficult. The Turkish president has advocated bringing back the death penalty, which is banned in European Union countries as a condition of membership, and he has ordered a thorough crackdown on the country’s news media, with 129 outlets now closed. Human rights advocates have also been alarmed by a measure, favored by Mr. Erdogan’s Justice and Development Party, to declare an amnesty for an estimated 3, 000 to 4, 000 men convicted of child abuse and rape, provided they have married their victims. The measure, which applies to what it calls “consensual” cases of child marriage, was scheduled to be debated on Tuesday in the Turkish Parliament, but it was instead returned to committee, forestalling an immediate vote. The legislation has infuriated women’s groups in Turkey and has drawn criticism from United Nations agencies. On Monday, a delegation of socialist members of the European Parliament was rebuffed in its attempt to visit Selahattin Demirtas, the jailed leader of Turkey’s leading   opposition party, the Peoples’ Democratic Party, at the prison where he has been held in Edirne, in the country’s northwest. Mr. Demirtas is among 10 members of Parliament from that party who have been detained this month over alleged connections with the outlawed Kurdistan Workers’ Party, known by the initials P. K. K. which the government considers a terrorist organization. The government has also deemed followers of the exiled cleric Fethullah Gulen to be terrorists, blaming them for the attempted coup. A government decree on Tuesday said that 375 groups from various cities had been ordered shut down for what it said were links with terrorists, along with nine news outlets. All the financial assets and property of those organizations were to be seized by the Treasury. The decree said that more than 15, 000 public employees were to be dismissed, including 338 soldiers, 404 military police officers and more than 7, 500 police officers. All of their passports were canceled, it added. The decree stated that all of them were “related, belonging to or in contact with terror organizations and structures that are considered by the National Security Council as acting against national security. ” The decree was issued under emergency powers granted to Mr. Erdogan’s government by Parliament after the failed coup. Parliament extended those powers on Oct. 11 for an additional three months. Members of the European Parliament have been strongly critical of Turkey’s crackdown on opponents and on the news media. After debating the issue in Strasbourg, France, on Tuesday, they are expected to vote on Thursday to put a temporary halt to accession talks with Turkey. The vote is designed to ratchet up pressure on Turkey to curtail its repressive tactics. Although the resolution already has the backing of the main political groups in the European Parliament, the vote will not be binding because of the European Union’s complicated   procedures. Any decision to freeze the talks must be made by other branches of the union. The European Commission, the bloc’s executive body, or   of European Union member states would first need to make a formal proposal to do so, and a majority of the member states would have to vote in favor of the move for it to pass. Many of the Turkish organizations shut down on Tuesday were charities or professional bodies, such as a nationwide group called Our Agenda Is Kids, based in the capital, Ankara the Endoscopy and Laparoscopy Training Association and the Pancreatic Islet Cell Research Association. Some of the organizations had connections to leftist groups or to followers of Mr. Gulen, but others seemed to have no political links at all.