’’ ’Goldman Sachs could be turning to Main Street.’ ’The Wall Street firm has made some significant changes in recent weeks that hint at a strategic shift away from its traditionally elite clients and toward more common investors.’ ’Last month the bank began  available to anyone with as little as a $1 deposit.’ ”It launched GSBank. com after acquiring GE Capital’s $16 billion deposit book and gaining about 145, 000 retail depositors.” ’The online accounts offer an annual interest rate of $1. 05%.’ ”Goldman is also embarking on a new initiative to  and lend to their clients  —   who are typically less wealthy than Goldman’s own   clients. The plan, according to Reuters, is to bring in more borrowers while avoiding a merger.” ”The shift has one analyst  —   CLSA’s Mike Mayo  —   speculating that Goldman’s next move could be to buy a big online broker, like  . Such a move would bring Goldman access to funding in the form of more deposits, and add to its earnings, ” ’This kind of talk follows  in which earnings were down 60% and revenues in trading and banking were down 37% and 23% respectively. ’ ’To be fair, it was a pretty rough quarter for most of the banks on Wall Street, due in large part to market conditions. But n’ ’ome analysts to  and whether it can ever be as profitable as it was in the years leading up to the financial crisis.’ ’On a call following the earnings release last month, ’ ’’ ’”If we felt like there is a client segment or transaction we could do that would benefit our shareholders and we could deliver to those clients, we would do it,” Schwartz said in response. ”We’’re  . ”’ ”CLSA’s Mayo described a few potential paths for Goldman Sachs in a recent note.” ’First, Mayo wrote, it can carry on with its ”   strategy,” grabbing market share where it can while other banks pull back. Second, it can transform into a boutique advisory bank ”on steroids” and shrink its trading arm. Or it can accelerate its expansion into traditional banking.’ ’It looks like the bank may be leaning towards the latter.’ ’Goldman Sachs could be turning to Main Street. ..’