Donald J. Trump sat down on Tuesday with reporters, editors and columnists of The New York Times for an exclusive interview. Times reporters have annotated portions of the interview. The full transcript is available here. The personal interactions between President Obama and Mr. Trump have so far been pleasant, but it’s not clear that the kumbaya moment will last. Mr. Obama has already indicated that he may weigh in against Mr. Trump once the new administration takes over, especially if the new president attacks Mr. Obama’s legacy achievements. Here is our story on the cordial   meeting between Mr. Trump and Mr. Obama in the Oval Office.   D. Shear Mr. Trump is working to reset his mercurial relationship with the media as he looks toward assuming office, starting with this meeting at what he branded the “failing New York Times” during his presidential campaign. But he still nurses intense grievances toward news outlets in general and The Times in particular. Here is more about Mr. Trump’s relationships with the news media and The Times.   Hirschfeld Davis Mr. Trump is hinting that even though federal law does not require him to do anything specific to separate himself from his vast business empire, he is inclined to submit to some sort of voluntary standard of ethics that would avoid conflicts of interest or their appearance. But he leaves open the possibility that there may not be a way to accomplish it. This story has more about Mr. Trump’s business ties.   Hirschfeld Davis Mr. Trump is correct that federal law, for the most part, exempts the President from conflict of interest rules, meaning he is allowed to take actions that could benefit his financial holdings. But in modern times, most presidents have voluntarily put their financial assets into blind trusts. Mr. Trump has said he does not intend to take such a step, instead will turn his companies over to his children. Read this story for more on Mr. Trump’s potential conflicts of interest.   Lipton The Wall Street Journal editorial board, among others, has suggested that the only solution to Mr. Trump’s potential conflicts of interest is to sell off all of his assets, and then have a blind trust reinvest the proceeds. Mr. Trump suggests that this is not practical.   Lipton Mr. Trump’s crowds at rallies frequently targeted Hillary Clinton, chanting “Lock her up!” and referring to her as a criminal. In July, Mr. Trump himself encouraged a crowd in Colorado, telling them “I’m starting to agree with you” as they chanted “Lock her up!” In addition, despite Mr. Trump’s remarks here, the F. B. I. and the Justice Department, which have investigated Mrs. Clinton’s email server and the Clinton Foundation, conduct criminal inquiries largely independently of the White House. A president attempting to intervene in those kinds of inquiries, in any direction, would be a major scandal. Here is our full story about Mr. Trump’s reversal on prosecuting Mrs. Clinton.   Ryan Mr. Trump has been criticized for not specifically denouncing bigotry and groups that spread bigoted views. His statements about such conduct tend to be vague, including here, when he says “I disavow the group. ” That nonspecific language has been comforting to leaders of the   a rebranded white nationalist movement, including Richard B. Spencer, who led a  gathering at a federal building near the White House last weekend that included some audience members offering a Nazi salute.   Ryan Mr. Trump here acknowledges, perhaps for the first time, that being president will perhaps help enrich his family. He also concedes that the arrangement might fairly be called a conflict of interest.   Lipton Back in February, when he was still a candidate, Mr. Trump said definitively that torture was effective. “Don’t tell me it doesn’t work  —   torture works,” he told an audience in South Carolina. “O. K. folks? Torture, you know, half these guys: ‘Torture doesn’t work.’ Believe me, it works. O. K.?” So Mr. Trump’s answer on Tuesday offered a revealing insight into his willingness to shift or rethink a position, especially after talking with someone he respects. Gen. James N. Mattis may well be Mr. Trump’s secretary of defense, and his rejection of torture clearly had an effect on the  .   D. Shear The reality is more complicated. The number of factories and the number of Americans who work in factories both have declined sharply in recent decades. But the nation’s manufacturing output is at the highest level in history. The   production of   goods, like socks, has been replaced by the largely automated production of   goods, like circuits.   Appelbaum In 1986, President Ronald Reagan signed a landmark law that prohibited the hiring of illegal immigrants, provided new resources for enforcement along the Mexican border and offered legal status to several million illegal immigrants. Experts say the law did little to slow migration to the United States, but made crossing the border more difficult and dangerous.   Pear Premiums for many health plans under the Affordable Care Act are increasing 20 percent to 40 percent or more, but increases of 100 percent are extremely rare. Deductibles for many plans are high, but not $16, 000. For a family plan in 2017, the maximum    cost, including the deductible, is $14, 300.   Pear Mr. Trump’s comments about his fellow Republicans had a sharp edge and an implicit message: They owe their congressional majority to him, and he expects to be treated accordingly. Whether this is true, and to what extent, will be one of the pivotal stories of the new Trump administration, and crucial to figuring out how much or how little he can get done. He needs Congress to achieve many of the campaign promises he made, including the deep tax cut and large infrastructure spending package, not to mention  —   and it is an open question how “in love” with his policies Republicans will prove to be. Read these stories for background on Mr. Trump’s relationships with Republican leaders in Congress, and the “Never Trump” stalwarts who are pondering the future of the conservative movement.    Hirschfeld Davis Mr. Trump suggests here that he may name Jared Kushner, his    as a special envoy to the Middle East, charged with making peace between the Israelis and the Palestinians. Buried in this answer is an assertion by Mr. Trump that the federal government’s   law does not apply to him as president, but he also says he would want to avoid the appearance of conflict. Installing Mr. Kushner as a special envoy could have that effect, essentially giving him an important task that would allow him to be involved in   national security deliberations without hiring him outright. This is a role that was often discussed as a potential landing spot for Bill Clinton if Mrs. Clinton had won the White House.   Hirschfeld Davis