PARIS  —   Five men who were arrested on Sunday in France were Islamic State operatives planning an “imminent” attack under the direction of a commander based in the terrorist group’s haven in Iraq and Syria, the authorities announced on Friday. The news immediately raised worries in France, which has been struck by three major terrorist attacks since January 2015, killing more than 200 people. The five men, ages 26 to 37, appeared before a special terrorism judge on Friday and were being investigated on terrorist conspiracy and weapons charges, according to the Paris prosecutor, François Molins, whose office handles terrorism cases nationwide. The five were among seven arrested in Strasbourg and Marseille on Sunday the other two have since been released. The arrests came shortly before the popular Christmas market in Strasbourg opened on Friday the annual tradition attracts 2 million visitors every year. Four of the suspects were arrested in Strasbourg. They were planning an attack for Dec. 1, Mr. Molins said, while adding that it was not yet clear what their target was “among all those that the group envisaged. ” Referring to news reports this week that militants were targeting the Disneyland Paris amusement park outside the capital, the   in Paris, and several other places, Mr. Molins said that the information was “detrimental to the ongoing investigations,” but he did not deny the reports. “It appears on one hand that the offenders were in possession of, or searching for, weapons and money, and on the other hand that they were about to take action and were looking for targets,” Mr. Molins said. He added that the findings were made with the help of an antiterrorism law that allows investigators to seize data during house searches, among other things. Mr. Molins identified the suspects arrested in Strasbourg as Yassine B. 37, a school employee Hicham M. 37, a warehouse worker Sami B. 36, a   father of three who worked in a grocery store and Zacaria M. 35, a   whose employment status was not disclosed. The four men were longtime friends who saw “each other on a regular basis” and communicated via a dedicated telephone line, Mr. Molins said. The fifth suspect, arrested in Marseille, was identified as Hicham E. a    Moroccan citizen who left his country in 2013 to emigrate to Portugal, from where he took multiple trips back and forth within Europe using fake identification papers. (The prosecutor earlier gave his age as 46.) The arrests followed an   investigation led by France’s domestic intelligence service, Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve said on Monday. A tip by a “partner country” led to the arrest of Hicham E. officials said. The team in Strasbourg and the suspect in Marseille were given “common instructions” by a commander in the “  zone” on how to obtain weapons, Mr. Molins said. They received their orders via encrypted mobile apps. Mr. Molins did not identify their commander. Hicham M. and Yassine B. went to the   border in March 2015 via Cyprus, while Hicham E. was turned back in the summer of 2015 when he attempted to enter Turkey, Mr. Molins said. On a USB memory stick found at Yassine B. ’s house, the authorities found a document mentioning the “delivery of a sum of money,” as well as GPS coordinates and detailed instructions on how to obtain weapons and ammunition. Investigators also found Google Maps screenshots of searches of different places in Yassine B. ’s laptop and phone, which Mr. Molins said amounted to “a clear will to find and spot targets, to take action in the very short term. ” The suspect arrested in Marseille, Hicham E. had 4, 281 euros, or $4, 539, on him when he was apprehended, money that investigators believe was intended to buy weapons. Mr. Molins said that arms, documentation on potential targets and pledges to the Islamic State were found at the houses of members of the Strasbourg team. Guns and bullets were found at the homes of Yassine B. and Zacaria M. it was not clear how they were obtained. The authorities also said writings glorifying martyrdom and “openly” referring to the Islamic State leader Abu Bakr   were found in a notebook in Yassine B. ’s house, and several documents mentioning “threats against the integrity of our country” were contained in a notebook found in Hicham M. ’s house. Mr. Molins said it appeared from the investigations that Yassine B. and Hicham M. had downloaded the Periscope app onto their phones, possibly to record themselves committing violence. Five people suspected of having links to the same network as the seven men were arrested on June 14  —   a few days into the Euro 2016 soccer tournament being held in France  —   and two of them were kept in custody. Also in June, an Islamic State sympathizer, Larossi Abballa, pledged loyalty to the group in a Facebook video after killing a police captain and his companion outside Paris. “The attacks or attack plots which we have been, currently are, or will face again are ” Mr. Molins said.