’’ ”Chris Christie’s image among New Jerseyans has become stunningly bad.” ”A Monday poll from Monmouth University found Christie’s approval rating at an   low  —   worse than the negative ratings respondents gave the state Legislature.” ’That survey comes weeks after  that Christie had the ’ ’More than   of New Jerseyans also responded that they believe Christie endorsed presumptive GOP nominee Donald Trump only to improve his chances of obtaining a federal appointment.’ ”Christie’s approval rating in the Monmouth poll stood at a dismal 27% while 63% disapproved of the job the governor is performing. That’s a tick worse than he did in the historically bad Quinnipiac survey, in which his approval rating was 29%. When registered voters were isolated in the Monmouth poll, Christie’s approval dropped from 27% to 26%.” ”The approval rating was a record low for the governor in the Monmouth survey. The state Legislature, of which 30% of New Jerseyans approved, stood better than Christie’s rating for the first time in his   years in office.” ’”It’’s really saying something when the legislature, which rarely manages to get its rating above water, is seen as more effective than the governor,” said Patrick Murray, director of the independent Monmouth University Polling Institute.’ ’’ ’About 80% of respondents in the Garden State, meanwhile, said that Christie was more concerned with his political future than governing New Jersey. And 68% of New Jersey residents said that the prospect of a future federal appointment was the reason he endorsed Trump.’ ’”Despite his statements to the contrary, the vast majority of New Jerseyans seem to believe that Christie’’s main concern right now is figuring how to get out of the state as soon as possible,” Murray said.’ ” survey, voters in the state, which holds its primary on Tuesday, made it clear that they don’t want Trump to select Christie as his running mate when they said, by a 72% to 18% split, that the Manhattan businessman should steer clear of their governor.”