’  ’ ’ Math is a cool way for us to understand the world we live in.   And to that end Business Insider recently spoke with     the Jacob Gould Schurman Professor of   Applied Mathematics at Cornell University. ’ ’Strogatz specializes in areas of nonlinear dynamics and   complex systems, and he is the author of the wonderful ”.” ’ ’He talked to us about game theory, ”elegant” math, math   education, and the effectiveness of models in different   fields. ’ ’ This interview has been edited for clarity and length. ’ ” Elena Holodny: What’s interesting in chaos theory right   now? ” ”Steven Strogatz: I’m often very interested in   whatever my students get interested in. I primarily think of   myself as a teacher and a guide. I try to help them   especially   my Ph. D. students   become the mathematicians they’re trying to   become. The answer often depends on what they want to do. ” ’   In broad terms, the question of how order emerges out of chaos.   Even though we talk about it as ”chaos theory,” I’’m really more   interested in the orderly side of nature than the chaotic side.   And I love the idea that things can organize themselves. Whether   those things are our system of morality or our universe or our   bodies as we grow from a single cell to the people we eventually   become. All this kind of unfolding of structure and organization   all around us and inside of us, to me, is inspiring and baffling.   I live for that kind of thing, to try to understand where these   patterns come from. ’ ’ Holodny: How do things organize themselves in nature even   when there’’s no ”central command”   like when birds fly in formation or people   organize themselves in a power structure? ’ ”Strogatz: We’re learning a lot about this all   the time   bird flocks, fish schools, herds of animals. You can   have human organization both within companies or even frivolous   examples like people in a soccer match who want to start doing   the wave or clapping in unison. So we do sometimes spontaneously   organize. ” ’   There are also cases when it’’s really serious, like when   buildings are on fire and people need to escape. You can study   the motion of people as they escape the building. And they   actually will go out like water flowing through a pipe   …     There’’s   a kind of ”fluid dynamics of people” as well as of cars. When   traffic engineers are trying to figure out how people are driving   . .. sometimes you’’ll be stuck in traffic and there’’s a jam, and   you’’re thinking, ”Oh there must be an accident somewhere down the   road,” but then you never see an accident and you wonder why was   there this traffic jam? There was no reason for this. ’ ’  ’ ”   So that’s another case of bizarre collective behavior of people   that we get in these density waves on the highway. Density of   traffic in some places and density somewhere else. And in that   case it has to do with driver behavior. That people don’t want to   get too close to the car in front of them. There are sort of   mathematical rules that govern how fast you’re comfortable   driving, depending on how far ahead of you the next car is, and   also how dense the traffic is generally. And so you can write all   of these things in math and then start to predict what will   happen with thousands of people on a big long stretch of highway. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Holodny: To what degree are these computer simulations accurate?   We don’t even know how to solve  yet! ” ’  ’ ”   I don’t want to give the impression that we totally understand   flocks. You’re right to be skeptical. There’s a lot that we’re   just learning about this, but the field seems to be moving pretty   fast. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   What this showed was that the winning strategy was the strategy   that people called ”tit for tat.” It begins by cooperating on the   first move and then does whatever the opponent did. So if the   opponent cheated, or ”defected” as they say, then they will   defect in retaliation. And so it’’s a very simple strategy   it   was actually the shortest program that was submitted to the   tournament. Only four lines of FORTRAN, the computer language of   the era in 1980. So it was the shortest program, and was very     but it ended up winning. ’ ’  ’ ’   Now, to come to the punch line, when Axelrod analyzed what   programs tended to do well in this prisoner’’s dilemma tournament,   the ones that did well had four properties: Be nice, be   provocable, be forgiving, and be clear. [Editor’’s note:   ”Nice” means to cooperate; ”provocable” means to immediately   defect in retaliation when the other player defects on you;   ”forgiving” means not to hold a grudge, e. g. someone resumes   cooperating with you, and then you resume cooperating and don’’t   continue to punish them.] ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   There’’s a footnote to this story that’’s really interesting, which   is that after Axelrod did this work in the early 1980s, a lot of   people thought, ”Well, you know, that’’s it. The best thing to do   is to play ’’tit for tat. ’’” But it turns out it’’s not so simple.   Of course nothing is ever so simple. His tournament made a   certain unrealistic assumption, which was that everybody had   perfect information about what everybody did, that nobody ever   misunderstands each other. And that’’s a problem, because in real   life somebody might cooperate, but because of a misunderstanding   you might think that they defected. You might feel insulted by   their behavior, even though they were trying to be nice. That   happens all the time. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’Strogatz: Yeah, that’’s a good point. I mean,   what’’s the right scientific model for economics? Is it physics?   Like some of the early practitioners of economics seem to talk   about equilibrium   and you’’d see in the old days of Keynesian   economics . .. people making models with ”pressure.” They even   built hydraulic computers to try to compute the flows in the   economy. They took it very literally as flows of money, except   they pretended it was water. ’ ’  ’ ” Holodny: Angus Deaton, who won the 2015 Nobel Prize in   economics, is more of a  and that’s more similar to   biologists who look at the   details of a given   population to predict what might happen next. As opposed to just   building models, and then wondering why things in the real world   don’t look like your model. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   If I could say just one, simple thing, that would be it: much of   school is about   and I don’t just mean math, but school in   general   is about teaching kids the answers to questions they’re   not asking. And that’s kind of inherently boring. That is, if   you’re stuck at a party and someone is going on telling you   something you don’t have any interest in, and you would never ask   about that, but they’re just dumping the answers on you   that is   the definition of boredom. [Laughs] ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   That teacher could be a parent or an actual teacher. I think   we’ve all had good teachers who inspired us to want to learn more   math and helped us, and then we’ve also had some      teachers who started to turn us off. That’s not really different   from anything else because in any profession; there are good   dentists and bad dentists. ” ’  ’ ’ Holodny: What does it mean to you when a proof is   ”elegant” or ”beautiful”? ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Another example of the aesthetic side of math is sometimes we’ll   find that two seemingly different parts of our subjects are   connected. Like, we teach algebra and geometry separately,   usually, but there’s a thing called analytic geometry   or just   to put it down to earth, when kids in high school learn  as   the equation for a line, they’re connecting an algebra formula   with the y’s and x’s to a geometric idea   the straight line. And   then when they solve two equations simultaneously, that   corresponds to the geometry of two lines crossing at a point. OK,   that seems pretty easy   …     but human beings didn’t know this until   René Descartes and Pierre Fermat figured that out when they   invented analytic geometry in the early 1600s. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   You don’’t even need to get as fancy as analytic geometry. Even   arithmetic. People in ancient Rome could not really multiply   because it’’s very hard to multiply Roman numerals. If you can   remember them, with the X’’s and the V’’s and the L’’s. If you would   try multiplying Roman numerals, it’’s quite tough. And so people   in the street couldn’’t really do arithmetic, and they’’d be   counting on their fingers and stuff. Now, everybody can do   arithmetic, and it’’s because in India they invented the concept   of zero, which of course had to be invented. It wasn’’t there     the idea of nothing. People knew about ”nothing,” but they didn’’t   know that it was a number. That was a big insight: that zero   could be regarded as a number and that it would obey the same   rules as the other numbers. And then of course negative numbers   were invented, too. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   What are we learning? We’re learning about the concept of   symmetry   the idea of a mirror reflection. And then I can do   other types of symmetry, like instead of you being my mirror   image, you could be me, but rotated 180 degrees   …     And so we start   playing these games with symmetry, like we can add a third   person. And so if you’re 180 degrees rotate from me, but then the   other person is a mirror image of you, then how is that different   person related to me? And so you’re composing symmetries, you’re   doing a symmetry of a symmetry. And what that gets to is the   beginning of a subject called group theory, which is the study of   symmetry that gets used in studying crystals or studying secret   codes in cryptography or elementary particle physics. String   theory is based on group theory. It’s a really deep subject that   we can illustrate by teaching these simple things about kids   moving around and dancing. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   But so much of school is, ”Don’’t make any mistakes, get it   right.” This class, I feel, is a necessary corrective to that to   show, that this is a safe place where you can make all the   mistakes you want as long as you can learn from them. And it’’s   fine and it’’s actually good because mistakes are very   instructive. ’ ”   There’s a problem with this class, which is that we don’t cover   very much. And I’m not teaching any preestablished body of   material that we have to get through. You can say, fine, you can   get away with this because this is the last [math] class these   students are ever going to take   and how much math did they   really learn? OK, those are fair questions. But the things that   they did learn they learned really well. And more than that, they   learned what it actually means to do math, honestly, for the   first time. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ”Strogatz: That’s why they hate it! No one wants   to feel like a trained monkey. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’