’  ’ ”   Donald Trump took aim at Google on Friday afternoon after a viral   video claimed to show the web giant’s autocomplete search   function manipulated results to favor Hillary Clinton. ” ’   ”If this is true, it is a disgrace that Google would do that,”   Trump wrote in a statement sent to Business Insider by his   campaign. ”Very, very dishonest.” ’ ’   ”They should let it float and allow people see how crooked she   really is,” he continued. ’ ’   The  created by SourceFed, showed multiple   autocomplete search results for ”Hillary Clinton” it claimed   proved that Google ”has been actively altering search   recommendations in favor of Hillary Clinton’’s campaign.” ’ ’   The video had been viewed more than 14 million times on Facebook   since Thursday. ’ ’   In a statement Friday, Google emphatically rejected that its   autocomplete function was biased toward any candidate. Rather,   each site simply uses a different algorithm than the others.  ’ ’   ”Google Autocomplete does not favor any candidate or cause,” a   Google spokesperson wrote in a statement. ”Claims to the contrary   simply misunderstand how Autocomplete works. Our Autocomplete   algorithm will not show a predicted query that is offensive or   disparaging when displayed in conjunction with a person’’s name.   More generally, our autocomplete predictions are produced based   on a number of factors including the popularity of search terms.” ’ ’   In one example from the video, SourceFed showed the autocomplete   results for ”Hillary Clinton cri” that included ”Hillary Clinton   crime reform,” ”Hillary Clinton crisis,” and ”Hillary Clinton   crime bill 1994.” ’ ’   The results did not include anything about ”crimes,” ”criminal,”   or ”criminal investigation,” which SourceFed showed were, by   comparison, among the first results to appear on Yahoo’’s and   Bing’’s autocomplete search functions.  ’ ’   A similar result happened when ”Hillary Clinton ind” was typed   into the Google search bar. Results including Indiana, India,   independent voters, and Indiana campaign all appeared.   ”Indictment” did not. On Yahoo and Bing, on the other hand,   ”indictment” was included on all of the top results for ”Hillary   Clinton ind.” ’ ’   SourceFed also found, however, that results for ”Donald Trump   rac” and ”Bernie Sanders soc” revealed autocomplete results that   contained ”racist”   with additional wording or context   and   ”socialist,” matching the results on Yahoo and Bing. ’ ’   Google’’s autocomplete function automatically filters a small set   terms the company deems offensive or inappropriate. One of those   words is ”crime,” which is filtered when associated with   anybody’’s name.  on that involving Bernie Madoff,   the infamous financier who defrauded many of his clients. For the   search ”Bernie Madoff cri” the first response is ”cricket.” ’ ’   Business Insider attempted the experiment as SourceFed and found   very similar results. However, Business Insider also found   similar results for other politicians, such as President George   W. Bush. Searching ”George w bush co” on Google, Yahoo, and Bing,   respectively, revealed the following: ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   The results among the three were also different when searching   ”donald trump mus.” Results for that search did not include   ”Muslims” on Google, while they did on Yahoo and Bing. ’ ’   Here are the results from ”donald trump mus”: ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Clinton’s campaign did not immediately respond to a request for   comment. ” ’ ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’  Their two anecdotes: [hillary clinton in] didn’t suggest [hillary clinton indictment] & [hillary clinton cri] didn’t suggest crimes. ’t’t” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’  It turns out that lots of people searching for negative things about HRC search for [hillary X] not [hillary clinton X]’t’t’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’  Here’s some live screenshot examples, including [hillary in] returning [hillary indictment] as first suggestion.  ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’  And here’’s some more examples of Autocomplete returning negative suggestions for HRC, including ”criminal email”  ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’  See  for a smart   about   Google Autocomplete appears to avoid ”crimes” for all, not just HRC. ’t’t’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’  Also see  for another good take. ’t’t’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’  P. S.  I asked Google’s search PR. They couldn’t find a record of you reaching out to Google before publishing your video? ’t’t” ’ ’ ” ’t’t’   this is a   area. Why make a long video of these claims without doing deeper research? It’s just not true. ’t’t” ’ ’ ’Donald Trump took aim at Google on Friday. ..’