’  ’ ”   There’s no question that venture money is tighter in Silicon   Valley. And that means more startups are struggling to cut costs   or are running out of money and failing outright. ” ’   Startups valued by their investors at over a billion are called   unicorns because they were once thought to be so rare. In 2014   and 2015, money flowed so freely that unicorns became more like   cockroaches. ’ ’   In 2016, a few richly valued startups have hit rough patches. ’ ’   While all of this sounds like a bad thing for the startup world,   it turns out that many startup CEOs are happy and relieved about   the changing environment. ’ ”   That’s because   startups can no longer poach their   engineers by offering to double or triple their salaries and   piling on bonuses and stock options. ” ’   One CEO told us that he had hired some engineers away from Google   only to lose them to a   unicorn that offered them a $1   million compensation package. ’ ’   At the Rutberg Future:Mobile Summit, which is taking place in the   Bay Area this week, a panel of other CEOs told similar tales. ’ ’   One of them was Mohit Lad, CEO of ThousandEyes, which offers a   service that helps troubleshoot network problems for companies   using   services. ’ ’   ”I feel good about a correction where companies can’’t just raise   crazy money and throw crazy salaries at our employees,”    said during a panel discussion at the show. ’ ’   Lad has raised about $60 million for ThousandEyes so far,   including a round that closed in February, after money started to   get tight. ’ ’  ’ ”   He said that employees have gotten duped by the situation, too.   Three of his employees got poached by a newly funded,     startup and wound up unemployed months later when that company   couldn’t sustain itself and raise more money in this environment. ” ’change hiring tactics during the boom. ’ ’   ”We never want to be the   offer that comes in. We   want to be second best. I don’’t want them to come to the company   because we’’re paying the most. I want them to come because it’’s a   mission they believe in, and once here, we take care of employees   so they are always happy,” he said. ’ ’   The strategy has worked. One of his engineers was offered double   his salary by a startup some months ago, but turned it down. ’ ’   ”He stayed and is doing well,” Lad said. ’ ’   Blue Jeans Network CEO Krish Ramakrishnan, who was also on the   panel, agreed. ’ ’   ”For companies with strong fundamentals, this is the best thing   we could ask for,” he said. ”Employees aren’’t moving to unicorns   offering things like free massages.” ’ ’   He said that some engineers were being offered ” ”   salaries to join startups. ’ ’   Blue Jeans offers a   service and has   raised its fair share of money: about $175 million, including a   $76 million round last fall   right as things started to get   tight. ’ ”   Ramakrishnan says that normal engineering salaries aren’t coming   down. The big, established companies like Google and Facebook are   still paying top dollar and keeping competition high. ” ’   But the crazy   or   poaching offers have   abated, he said. ’ ’   Meanwhile, Dan Teran, CEO of Managed by Q, says that for startups   that have good revenue growth and cash flow, investment is still   available. ’ ’  ’ ’   It just takes more convincing to get VCs to bite. Managed by Q is   a    startup for   services in New York   like janitorial services, catering, snack stocking, and office   supplies. ’ ’raised over $42 million, including a $25   million series B round that closed in April. One of its investors   is Google Ventures. which had backed a company called Homejoy, a   similar marketplace for hiring cleaning and maintenance people.   ’ ’   ”Google Ventures had just had Homejoy eat the dust. It had raised   a ton of money and really crashed and burned. The partners in the   room grilled me,” Teran recalls. ”But we had strong   fundamentals.” ’ ’   Since Managed by Q has become a buzzy startup in New York, he   says that he’’s seen a handful of ”copycat” competitors launch and   struggle to raise money. And that’’s another reason that ”a tight   market works to our advantage,” he says. ’ ”There’s no question that venture money is. ..”