’  ’ ’   WASHINGTON (Reuters)   has agreed to revise   its customer repair agreements to allow owners to report   potential safety issues to U. S. auto safety regulators, a   government spokesman said on Friday. ’ ’   The U. S. National Highway Safety Administration (NHTSA) which on   Thursday saidhad entered into a ”troublesome   nondisclosure agreement” with a Model S owner who had suspension   problems, said on Friday it had confirmed ”thathas clarified the language . .. in a satisfactory way,   resolving the issue.” ’ ’   The   green car maker did not immediately respond   to a request for comment on Friday. ’ ’   NHTSA stated its concerns about the nondisclosure agreement on   Thursday as it said it was reviewing reports of suspension   problems, but had not opened a formal investigation. ’ ’   On Friday, NHTSA spokesman Bryan Thomas saidwas fully cooperating with the suspension review ”and   NHTSA’’s examination of the data is under way. To date, NHTSA has   not identified any safety issue with’’s   suspensions.” ’ ’on Thursday denied any suspension problems,   saying extensive durability testing and review of customer issues   ”gives us high confidence in our suspensions.” ’ ”   NHTSA Administrator Mark Rosekind said on Thursday that the   agency was reviewing the automaker’s use of the agreements to see   if they had impeded owners from making complaints. ” ’  ’ ’said in a blog post late on Thursday that it   ”has never and would never ask a customer to sign a document to   prevent them from talking to NHTSA or any other government   agency. That is preposterous.” ’ ’   The company said it often agrees to cover or discount repairs   even ifis not responsible and requires   customers to sign a ”goodwill agreement” that requires   nondisclosure of the incident. ’ ’noted the agreement did not mention NHTSA and   ”has nothing to do with trying to stop someone from communicating   with NHTSA or the government about our cars.” ’ ’   NHTSA said on Thursday it ”learned of’’s   troublesome   agreement last month. The agency   immediately informedthat any language   implying that consumers should not contact the agency regarding   safety concerns is unacceptable, and NHTSA expectsto eliminate any such language.”  ’ ’   (Editing by Chris Reese and Matthew Lewis) ’ ’WASHINGTON (Reuters)   Tesla has. ..’