’  ’ ’   In times of recession, some cities are hit much harder than   others. ’ ”   A  published in the Journal of   Urban Economics takes a close look at the uneven effects of   the past several business cycles, including the Great Recession,   on America’s metros. ” ”   To do so, it tracks monthly economic activity for the nation’s 50   largest metros over the course of several recessions between 1990   and 2015, charting their effects on economic output,   productivity, wages, and unemployment. ” ”   Some recessions are weaker than others, and their effects vary by   geography. Slightly more than half of large metros (26 out of 50)   experienced a recession during the national recession in the   early ’90s. Rustbelt metros like Detroit and Cleveland,     by deindustrialization and the contraction of the manufacturing   industry, faced long and deep recessions, as did   and     metros like Miami, Tampa, and Orlando. ” ”   Coastal metros like New York, Boston, Washington, D. C. and L. A.   as well as Riverside, Providence, and Hartford, also experienced   significant recessions in the early ’90s. By contrast, western   metros like Seattle, Denver, Portland, San Antonio, Austin, and   Salt Lake City managed positive   because their   housing prices remained relatively low and they were in the midst   of developing   and   economies. ” ’   The recession of the early 2000s was largely about the tech boom   and the   bubble. As a result, it clobbered   hubs   like San Francisco, Denver, Portland, San Jose, and Austin. But   this recession again hit hard at   Rustbelt   metros like Detroit and Cleveland and Sunbelt metros, whose   economies were more exposed to the downturn in housing.   Meanwhile, the Washington, D. C. and Virginia Beach metro areas   saw positive economic growth during this time, perhaps buoyed by   federal spending. ’ ’  ’ ’   That brings us to the ”Great Recession” in the late 2000s. This   recession hit a whopping 49 out of the country’’s 50 largest   metros, sparing only Oklahoma City. ’ ’   The metros that suffered the most were devastated by the housing     mainly Rustbelt metros like Detroit and sprawling   Sunbelt metros like Miami, Las Vegas, Tampa, Orlando, and   Jacksonville. Meanwhile, a combination of   metros   (like Oklahoma City) and knowledge hubs like Austin and Denver   were less   by the Great Recession. ’ ’   The chart below sums up all three periods of national recession   from 1990 to 2015, with each bar representing the severity of   these recessions for a given metro. Overall, business cycles   appear to hit the hardest in   Rustbelt   metros like Detroit and Sunbelt metros like Miami and Las Vegas.   That said, San Jose has also been   especially by the   2001 tech crash. ’ ’  ’ ’   The most interesting part of the study takes a close look at the   factors that expose or protect metros from the effects of a   business cycle. ’ ’   Two things seem to matter most: First, the study echoes a wide   body of research that identifies the effects of human capital,   talent, or a highly educated workforce on economic growth and   development. Here, the study finds that   metros   suffer from more severe recessions, most likely because their   workers have a tougher time finding or keeping jobs during a   period of economic decline. ’ ’   Second, metro economies that are more dependent on housing (or   have ”lower housing price elasticities,” in economic terms) are   also more vulnerable to recession. These metros are also far more   vulnerable to swings in housing prices. ’ ’   What’’s more, the study finds that metros are affected by what   happens to nearby and adjacent metros. In this way, the effects   of economic cycles tend to ”spill over” from one metro to   another. On the one hand, the study finds, Northeast and upper   Midwest metros like New York, Chicago, Detroit, Baltimore,   Pittsburgh, Columbus, Hartford, and Buffalo are weighed down   economically by their adjacent metros. On the other, places like   Washington, D. C. Austin, and Providence are strong enough to   weather a recession on their own. ’ ’   Ultimately, the study boils down to a few main takeaways. For   one,   and   economies are the best defense   against severe recessions, while   Rustbelt   metros and   or   Sunbelt metros are   much more exposed to the ups and downs of the business cycle.   Still,   economies are not immune: They, too, can get   hurt when the tech economy becomes overheated and tech bubbles   burst. ’ ’   In the end, the study reinforces our understanding of the U. S.   economy that has emerged over the past 15 years: The divide   between   metro economies and everywhere else only   continues to deepen. ’ ’In times of recession, some cities are hit much. ..’