’  ’ ’   The world of cancer treatments is an explosive area, especially   as treatments get more targeted. ’ ’   But with that will come some big costs. The IMS Institute for   Healthcare Informatics expects cancer treatment costs to hit $150   billion by 2020, up from $107 billion in 2015. ’ ’   Enter a new potential side effect: debilitating cost. How do   doctors and researchers factor in the costs that a patient is   paying? ’ ”   That’s the kind of thing Dr. Derek Raghavan, president of Levine   Cancer Institute at Carolinas HealthCare, thinks about a lot. ” ’   ”We are spending more and more time thinking about cost for   patients,” he told Business Insider. He pointed to a study by    Dr. Jonas de Souza who uses   the term ”financial toxicity” to look at how much of a role   finances play in a cancer patient’’s quality of life. ’ ’’ ”   Cancer isn’t just one disease: It’s a whole group of cancers.   It’s gotten so big that whole companies are devoted to developing   cancer treatments. IMS cites more than 500 companies that are   developing cancer drugs. In fact, pharmaceutical company Novartis   just split out its oncology business into a separate branch from   its other disease areas. ” ”   And because it’s so complex, there’s a whole web of     that needs to happen as cancer progress, while at   the same time, newer drugs become more targeted and more   specific. Here’s how leading cancer researchers and   pharmaceutical executives are addressing it all. ” ’   Raghavan said there are two main questions he thinks about when   determining how to treat a cancer patient. ’ ’   ”The first question is how much survival benefit will you   get from the patient?” he said. ”Three weeks? Not worth   it. Three months, maybe. But probably not. If you’’re talking a   year plus, that’’s a relatively easy one to solve.” ’ ”   But that three months gets a little complicated if it means there   aren’t any extreme side effects (either physical or breaking the   bank). If that three months means seeing a major life event, like   a holiday or graduation, it’s likely worth it. ” ’   ”Everything is contextual. If you’’re dealing with an      who’’s had a stroke and a coronary, and you can do something   that’’s going to make them really sick, but will give them an   extra three months, you’’d have to be an idiot to say that’’s worth   it to them,” he said. ”But you also have to ask them:   What’’s important to them?” ’ ’   Newer treatments, including the   field of   immunotherapy (drugs that harness the immune system to better   attack cancer cells) are seeing much better and longer survival   rates, which is also where costs will factor in. ’ ”   Within immunotherapy, researchers are trying to figure out how to   get more people to respond to treatment. Take Keytruda, the drug   that’s credited with helping get  after he was diagnosed   with melanoma that had spread to his liver and brain. Only about   30% of   patients using Keytruda alone respond   completely. That’s still better than the  of chemotherapy treatments on their own in   cases of metastatic melanoma, but it’s not 100%. However,   companies think the solution may lie somewhere in combination   with other drugs, potentially even other immunotherapies. ” ’   But the problem is these drugs can often be upward of  depending on how long you   stay on the drug. Add that to another $100, 000 drug, and the cost   for such good results is a bit staggering. ’ ’   Trials are already being run for combinations of two and even   three immunotherapies at the same time. Beyond that, companies   are looking at ways to pair drugs together to help them work   better. For example, ones that target the programmed cell death 1   (or  ) receptor to essentially take the ”foot off the brake   pedal” in the immune system might be put together with other   immunotherapies that activate the immune system in different   ways. Or, those   inhibitors might be matched up with targeted   chemotherapies, or other tools in the   toolbox. ’ ’   Pfizer, which has a number of immunotherapy compounds in   development and a partnership with Merck KGaA to develop the     drug avelumab, said it plans to work closely with other   areas of healthcare to set prices on combinations based on how   well they work. ’ ’   ”I think that the concern that’’s being raised time and time again   is more about the future and around combinations,” Pfizer’’s   global president of oncology Liz Barrett told Business Insider.   ”And I think when you start to think about that, that’’s where I   feel like Pfizer’’s in a unique position, because we have the   multiple   drugs and the targeted therapy drugs.” ’ ’   Before companies even get to that pricing question, there are a   lot of unknowns still left in the immunotherapy world. Merck   & Co. the company that makes Keytruda, thinks a solution   lies in answering the question about where combinations are   necessary, and where drugs like Keytruda can work the best on its   own. ’ ’   ”We know for some patients, just single application or single   modality treatment with a   antibody is enough,” the company’’s   senior vice president of clinical development, Roy Baynes, told   Business Insider. But for those who don’’t, there are a few   questions he pinpointed that need to be answered next: ”Can we   identify the group that is most likely to benefit from     therapy? Next, who needs a combination and can we   identify which combination?” ’ ’   Ideally, the clinical trials that are ongoing or in the works   will give researchers some hints as to what those answers may be. ’ ’The world of cancer treatments is an explosive. ..’