’  ’ ’   Walgreens has ended its partnership with Theranos. ’ ”   The move by the pharmacy chain follows a  involving the   technology at   the center of Theranos’ business. ” ”   All 40 of Theranos’ wellness centers at Walgreens stores in   Arizona will shut down, according to a statement posted . ” ’   The pharmacy ended Theranos laboratory testing services at its   location in Palo Alto, California in January, meaning that   Walgreens will no longer offer Theranos services at any of its   stores, the statement said. ’ ”   The Arizona wellness centers were reportedly Theranos’ primary   source of revenue, . ” ’’ ’   In a statement to Business Insider, Theranos spokesperson Brooke   Buchanan said ”Quality and safety are our top priorities and we   are working closely with government officials to ensure that we   not only comply with all federal regulations but exceed them.” ’ ’   Theranos last month  from its flagship   Edison machines, forcing the company to issue ”tens of thousands”   of corrected tests as a result. ’ ’   Walgreens officials had apparently become ”frustrated at not   getting more details and documentation from Theranos” after that,   according to sources cited by The Journal. Some of the affected   results included ”samples collected from patients at Walgreens   pharmacies.” ’ ’   ”In light of the voiding of a number of test results, and as the   Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) has rejected   Theranos’’ plan of correction and considers sanctions, we have   carefully considered our relationship with Theranos and believe   it is in our customers’’ best interests to terminate our   partnership,” spokesperson Brad Fluegel said. ’ ’   ”Quality and safety are our top priorities and we are working   closely with government officials to ensure that we not only   comply with all federal regulations but exceed them. We are   disappointed that Walgreens has chosen to terminate our   relationship and remain fully committed to our mission to provide   patients access to affordable health information and look forward   to continuing to serve customers in Arizona and California   through our retail locations.” ’ ’Walgreens has ended its partnership with. ..’