’  ’ ’   The speeches  and  on Monday in response to the Orlando,   Florida, terrorist attack laid out the key distinction in visions   between the two candidates. ’ ”   One vision calls for doing approximately what we’re doing now,   with some improvements on the margins. The other vision is   dystopian, urging our society to reject outsiders and arm   ourselves to the teeth to protect against threats that are   allegedly inherent in Islam. ” ”   You don’t have to like the status quo very much to prefer the   former approach over the latter. ” ”   Clinton’s view is that America’s society, institutions, and   international relations are broadly working, but that they   require tweaks to protect us. She says that we must make it   harder for certain people to buy certain kinds of guns, spend   more on certain kinds of intelligence, disrupt terrorism   financing, and intensify the military campaign against ISIS. ” ”   Trump’s view is that everything is going to hell and that we need   a radical, authoritarian shift to protect ourselves. He says that   we must seek to exclude Muslims from the US and arm ourselves   personally to protect against violent attack, because Americans   and Muslims have a fundamental and unbridgeable difference in   values. ” ’   Trump indulged in fever dreams, saying that ” ’ ’   Clinton is a Democrat, but as the conservative writer Matthew   Continetti put it, she was  on security and   international relations, a consensus Trump is proposing to chuck. ’ ”   So the question before voters is: Do we want Trump’s     revolution, or do we want to stay the course? ” ”   For me, the answer is easy. I was horrified by Trump’s speech     it was the stupidest and scariest speech I’ve ever heard him   give, which is a high bar. ” ’   Trump, who has previously said that ”Islam hates us,” accepts the   ISIS frame of a fundamental struggle between Islam and the West.   Trump’’s choice of this frame will increase sympathy for jihad   among Muslims abroad, making it . It insults millions   of Muslim citizens of the US who love their country. It surely   also scares them, since Trump’’s words are likely to inspire     hatred and violence. ’ ”   All that said, Trump’s appeal stems in part from the fact that   the bipartisan   War security consensus for which Clinton   speaks has had   failures, including the September 11,   2001, attacks and the Iraq war. There is a strong sense among   Americans that what we’re doing isn’t working, and that we need   to do something else. ” ’   I get that impulse, but here’’s the thing: ”Something else” is not   a policy. If we are to abandon the status quo, we must replace it   with something specific, and what Trump is proposing is far worse   than the status quo. ’ ’  ’ ’   The specific ideas Trump advances   a combination of isolationism   and aggression, of vitriolic rhetoric and neglect of allies, of   treating Muslims as an enemy and yet also saying that it would be   OK for Saudi Arabia to have a nuclear weapon   are worse than   whatever we are doing right now, even if you do not like exactly   what we are doing right now. ’ ’   Several politicians, including Trump  have framed a hostile stance toward Islam   as necessary to protect the safety of LGBT Americans. It is   reasonable to raise concerns about global Muslim attitudes about   pluralism, and particularly about treatment of LGBT people in     countries, some of which sanction the death   penalty as punishment for homosexuality. ’ ’   But those who do raise these concerns, including Trump, should   note that opinion among Muslims in the US is very different than   it is abroad. ’ ’   A  found that 45% of American Muslims think   homosexuality should be accepted by society, a higher figure than   for Mormons or evangelical Christians. That was up from 38% in   2007   reflecting the fact that Muslim Americans, like all the   American religious groups studied by Pew, are becoming more   accepting of gays over time. ’ ”   That is, we don’t need to ask whether Islam can be compatible   with a modern, pluralistic society that protects the rights and   safety of LGBT people. In the US, we know that Islam is   compatible enough   approximately as compatible as various other   major religious traditions whose compatibility with Americanism   we do not routinely question. ” ”   There is a reason the attacks in Orlando and San Bernardino,   California, though apparently based in extreme Islamist ideology,   were not supported by a local terrorist network like the attacks   in Paris and Brussels. The reason is that America’s Muslim   minority is     and not disposed to   harbor people who would harm other Americans.   attacks   are a risk, but they are a risk mitigated by American Muslim   communities, not exacerbated by them. ” ”   All of which is to say that America’s Muslim communities are an   example of how our pluralistic society is working pretty well,   not of how everything is broken. ” ’   It’’s hard for people to be optimistic right now, but Clinton is   right to take the view that we are better off with small changes   than large ones, that we are better off being open to each other   than identifying specific religious groups as threats, and that   America has a pretty good thing going that we shouldn’’t just   throw away for an authoritarian approach to ”safety.” ’ ’The speeches Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump. ..’