’  ’ ”   I’m going to say this in English first. ” ”   China’s government really wanted the country’s stock market   the     market   to be included in a very special club (an index,   really) and it thought that that was going to happen on Thursday. ” ”   In fact, it was so excited that the country’s normally quiet   officials were coming right out and saying that China’s inclusion   was a  ” ”   But that’s not what happened, and you can expect an angry   government, and possibly some very angry state media decrying   this tomorrow. ” ”   Now I’ll talk about the details. ” ’   China was very close to joining a special club, the MSCI Emerging   Markets Index. It includes a basket of stocks from emerging   market economies with stock markets deemed stable enough for   investors around the globe. Investors put money into funds that   follow that index, which means that inclusion can help bolster   demand for stocks. ’ ’   So you can see how inclusion would be a matter of respect to   China   or, as China watchers would put it, a matter of ”face.”   And you can see how a delayed inclusion would be a slap in that   face. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”In keeping with its standard practice, MSCI will monitor the   implementation of the recently announced policy changes and will   seek feedback from market participants,” he added. ’ ’  ’ ’   The bottom line here, through all the mumbo jumbo about ”capital   mobility policy changes” and ”trading suspension policies,” is   this. ’ ”   First, investors don’t think China’s   market is stable   enough. And second, they don’t know whether they can get their   money in, or more importantly out, fast enough. ” ’   Part of this is likely because of what happened last summer, and   then again in February. In both instances, a deteriorating   Chinese economy prompted three separate   death drops at   stock exchanges in Shanghai and Shenzen. ’ ’  ’ ’   China is trying to pull off a difficult transition from an     economy to one based on domestic consumption.   That means old companies in declining industries   like steel and   coal   have to shrink (or die) and new ones in service spaces   (like tech and finance) must rise. ’ ’   The problem is that these old Chinese companies have a ton of   debt, they employ a bunch of people, many are partly state owned,   and the government is having trouble winding them down. ’ ’   The economy is slowing much more dramatically than analysts   thought, and government stimulus is doing less and less to   mitigate the pain of this slowdown. ’ ”   So you can see why investors might be a little concerned about   the companies that make up China’s stock market. ” ’   After two crashes last summer, Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein   called China’’s management of the situation ” .” ’ ’  ’ ’   Another reason why they could be concerned is that the Chinese   government is just getting the party started again after its   latest turmoil. ’ ”   The investors that the government told to get out are being   coaxed back in ever so slowly. China’s huge pension  and the   country’s brokerages have started providing . But rules China implemented   to satisfy global investors are untested at this point. ” ”   To put this in perspective, Pakistan   which is not the world’s   second largest economy    was included in the MSCI this     and China was not.  ” ’  ’ ”I’m going to say this in English first. China’s. ..”