“You can hear a whoosh of air as the train approaches,” Deke Sharon said, breaking down the cacophony on a subway platform into its component parts. “There’s the high screech of the tires, and underneath it all there’s a low rumble. ” For good measure, he emulated each sound. Mr. Sharon may be as perky as you might imagine the   “guru of a cappella” to be, but little can prepare you for his infectious good cheer. “This is me mellow!” he exclaimed with boundless enthusiasm  —   a mood even more striking considering he was waiting for a C train in the chaotically busy 42nd Street station. Looking fetchingly   in a blazer and jeans, he showed no sign of the stress that comes with opening a rather unconventional Broadway show. As if travel to workshops, camps, master classes, concerts and recording studios, as well as overseeing the touring group Vocalosity, weren’t enough, Mr. Sharon has spent the past few months on the vocal arrangements for “In Transit. ” It’s the first a cappella musical on Broadway, created by a quartet of songwriters including Kristen   a   of songs for the animated film “Frozen. ” The short commute from his temporary Manhattan apartment to the Circle in the Square Theater, where “In Transit” is in previews, constituted field research for Mr. Sharon, as the show’s characters all cross paths on the subway. “I would come down here and listen,” said Mr. Sharon, a tall and lanky Bay Area resident. “But I also wanted to get a sense of the relationship between people, because a cappella is about the interconnectedness of voices and individuals. ” This last point is the crux of what Mr. Sharon, 48, calls his lifelong mission of creating harmony through harmony. To that end he leaves no outlet unturned. His   jobs have included serving as executive producer, coach and arranger on the NBC reality show “The  ” (which spawned the hugely successful vocal group Pentatonix) and writing the arrangements for both “Pitch Perfect” movies. In the second film, he also sang many of the backup harmonies for the villainous   team Das Sound Machine and had a cameo as a German judge. Mr. Sharon has created a cappella arrangements for about 2, 000 songs and has written several books, including the new “The Heart of Vocal Harmony. ” So when time came to retool “In Transit” for a bigger stage after an Off Broadway run in 2010, Ms.   and her   immediately thought of him. “We were really into ‘The ’ and of course we knew Deke was in the House Jacks, which was the first big professional,   a cappella group,” Ms.   who sang in a vocal group at Williams College, said in a phone interview. Mr. Sharon was a   of the House Jacks in 1991, with singers he had met on the college circuit. It was a bold move at a time when a cappella was not popular, aside from freak hits like Bobby McFerrin’s “Don’t Worry, Be Happy” and Boyz II Men’s “It’s So Hard to Say Goodbye to Yesterday. ” Yet in hindsight, Mr. Sharon had the background and dedication required to take a cappella to the next level. This, after all, is someone who says he could sing before he could talk and whose parents signed him for a church choir at the ripe age of 5. He later participated in musical theater but had an a cappella epiphany in his freshman year at San Francisco University High School, where he led the barbershop quartet in a production of “The Music Man. ” A few years later, Mr. Sharon enrolled at Tufts University just so he could join that school’s Beelzebubs, an a cappella group. The love wasn’t immediately returned: He got in only on his third audition. “They said I was overzealous,” Mr. Sharon recalled. “My   was perfect, so when I pointed out a small mistake I’d made, they thought I was pretentious. ” (Benji in the “Pitch Perfect” movies is partly based on Mr. Sharon.) College was also when Kurk Richard Toohey Jr. officially became Deke Sharon. “It wasn’t meant as a stage name,” he explained. “Everybody called me Deke, and my mom had remarried, so I had all these different names in my childhood. I just wanted an identity of my own. ” The same year he helped found the House Jacks, Mr. Sharon also created the Contemporary A Cappella Society as part of his effort to cement the   community and improve its outreach. But it’s    where his temperament  —   earnestly upbeat, but with a   humor and a subtly forceful undertone blocking any threat of saccharine  —   is most effective. “My knowledge of a cappella was limited, but Deke is very good at meeting people where they are and giving them what they need so they can get where he wants them,” recalled Birgitte   who played the leader of Das Sound Machine in “Pitch Perfect 2” and stars in the Broadway revival of “Les Liaisons Dangereuses. ” Mr. Sharon’s interpersonal and technical skills were critical for a show like “In Transit,” which presented several challenges for the cast and crew  —   starting with the fact that the actors double up as the orchestra and almost never stop singing. “Sometimes they go offstage, change their costume, walk around the back of the house and come back in from another side, singing all the while,” Mr. Sharon said. “And they can’t miss a beat, go out of time or rhythm. The technical difficulty is the highest not only that I’ve ever worked on, but that I’ve ever known to be done a cappella. ” To sync with each other, the actors wear   monitors so they can best hear all the vocal layers as well as the musical supervisor, Rick   who voices his cues from backstage. Getting used to the earbuds was a steep learning curve. Margo Seibert, one of the stars, said it was like trying to sing while putting your head under water in a bathtub  —   a “  moment” for her. “The first week, their faces looked like they’d just eaten a bad lemon,” Ms.   said of the cast, laughing. “But Deke was so confident and positive that everyone went, ‘O. K.!’ And that’s a gift to have in the room. ” A   “huge a cappella nerd,” Justin Guarini, one of Ms. Seibert’s   was in a vocal group in high school. Still, he appreciated Mr. Sharon’s input. “I’m learning from him, and it’s an awesome feeling,” he said. “He’s not a teacher so much as an educator. ” For the tireless Mr. Sharon, a Broadway show is just one more way to bring about a culture in which everybody sings and where diversity is not just lip service but a structural asset. “Most choral ensembles want a homogeneity of sound,” he said, “but I want a different configuration of sounds and notes and voices. The overall experience of seeing these very diverse people onstage together makes a statement that is so necessary in today’s society. ” Ms.   added: “He truly believes that groups of people singing together creates goodness in the world. And at this moment in time, we really need that kind of harmony. ”