’  ’ ’   Imagine a restaurant that always has some empty tables. ’ ”   Sales are actually OK, and it’s profitable, but the   restaurateur’s backers are obsessed with profits per table. They   think raising that number would make the restaurant seem   exclusive and attractive to new investors. ” ”   But no matter how hard he tries, the restaurateur just can’t get   more people in the door. So he does something else: He takes away   some tables. ” ”   It costs money to move and store the tables, but that very month,   the same number of people visit the restaurant, and profits per   table go up. Sales haven’t changed, but now the investors are   happy. ” ”   If this bothers you, consider that it’s exactly like something   public companies in America do every day. ” ’   Colloquially called buybacks, share repurchases   in which a   company uses its own cash to buy its own stock   are all the rage   these days. Pushed by shareholders, US businesses    according to research from HSBC. ’ ”   That’s $2. 1 trillion not spent on training employees, building   new factories, or paying off borrowings. It’s not even directly   being handed back to shareholders in a dividend that could be   reinvested. ” ’   But buybacks  like billionaire investor Carl Icahn,   who  in 2013: ” ’ ’    ’ ”   Buyback proponents say they reward these   shareholders   by effectively increasing their ownership of the company, and   they help boost the value of a stock by . And when there’s no   other compelling use for a company’s cash, this is a  on takeovers or other   big investments. ” ’  ’ ”   But the other view on buybacks is that   like the restaurant   removing tables   their only impact is in  than they seem. Yes, earnings per   share rise, but that’s . Even their fiercest   proponents   somewhat hypocritically   say they’re overused. ” ”   Here’s Icahn again, just this month, speaking on CNBC: ” ’   Icahn also said in the interview that he thinks one reason this   is going on is that executives are paid with stock, and they   think buybacks will boost the value of that stock. ’ ”   But all the evidence shows that   in recent years   they’ve   not actually helped boost stock values at all. ” ”   For most of the stock market’s history, buybacks were actually   illegal   considered to be insider trading   the thought being   that if you ran the company, you would have nonpublic information   to know when to buy shares. ” ’   This changed in 1982, when the Securities and Exchange Commission    which, despite a few mechanical restrictions, opened   the gates for companies to begin to repurchase shares en masse. ’ ’   Buybacks then became a part of the corporate lexicon, and for a   while they did well. Numerous studies found that in the 1990s,   companies that completed buybacks outperformed the broader   market. Soon, buybacks became increasingly popular, crossing the   $100    mark in 2006 and taking off after the   recession in  . ’ ’   Today, everyone from the  to the  are repurchasing   shares. After being pushed by Icahn, Apple is in the  spending roughly $3 billion in   the first quarter of 2016 alone. And a growing number of   companies are borrowing money to fund the repurchases. ’ ’   This use of debt also presents a few new issues for firms doing   repurchases. On the basic level, as Jonathan Glionna at Barclays   noted recently, if it becomes harder to borrow (which appears to   be happening) the spigot that allows the   buybacks   will be shut off. ’ ”   Analysts have been concerned about the historic size of US   companies’ debt for some time, and buybacks are contributing to   this burden   again without doing anything to grow a business or   generate additional cash flow that could help make sure the debt   is paid down. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   There are a two answers to this question   one theoretical, one   practical. ’ ”   Companies don’t want to just sit on money, much for the same   reason that investors don’t like holding piles of cash either:   Inflation erodes the value of the cash, so putting it to work   makes sense. ” ’   During periods of economic growth, it is better to allocate   profits to capital (like a factory) or labor. This is an   investment in the future of the firm, but it is also risky   because the economy could worsen. ’ ’   So in periods of economic uncertainty   like right now     companies choose to give cash to shareholders instead. ’ ’   ”I’’m very sympathetic to companies buying back shares,” Mike   Thompson, head of S&P Investment Advisory Services, told   Business Insider. ”In an environment like this return cash to   shareholders keeps them pleased with the   gains while   not committing to large investments that could hurt performance.” ’ ”   Theoretically that all sounds great, but practically speaking, a   company engages in buybacks because its stock is cheap. For   instance, every time Berkshire Hathaway’s share price falls under   a certain level, Warren Buffett said that . ” ’   Then if the value of the company goes back up, the company can   always reissue the shares and use the gain to fund other   projects. And it simply makes them look good. This use of   buybacks as an image booster has become one of the most divisive   ideas about repurchases, with many analysts and market watchers   calling it ”financial engineering.” ’ ”   One of the most tracked measures of a company’s performance is   earnings per share. EPS numbers usually are the first thing   investors and the media look for in a business’s results   and   whether the number beat expectations set by industry and     research analysts at financial firms. ” ”   Critics of buybacks say they’re the easiest way to game the   system and come in above EPS forecasts, thus making a company   look better. Since EPS is generated by dividing profits by shares   in the market, if you shrink the number of shares, the EPS will   rise. One company that has faced scathing criticism over this   issue is  in particular from billionaire investor Stanley   Druckenmiller. ” ’  ’ ’    ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Whatever the reason companies are buying back their own stock, it   is becoming on of the biggest trends of the      stock market. ’ ’ buybacks have been the largest   source of net demand for the stock market since 2009. ’ ”   The problem is that the buybacks may not be working. According to   data from FactSet’s Andrew Birstingl, the performance of   companies engaging in buybacks has been disappointing. ” ’   ”In the past year, companies repurchasing shares saw an excess   weighted cumulative return of  . 9% relative to the benchmark,   while companies not repurchasing shares saw a return of 9. 8%   relative to the benchmark,” Birstingl wrote in his quarterly look   at buybacks. ’ ’   On a   horizon, those companies buying back shares ended   up with a  . 9% return against a gain of 11. 5% for those not   doing repurchases. IBM, incidentally, has lost about $50 billion   in market value since the end of 2013, or about 30%. ’ ’   Additionally, a study by Inmoo Lee of the KAIST College of   Business, Yuen Jung Park of Hallym University, and Neil D.   Pearson of the University of Illinois at   found   that  outperformed the benchmark prior to   2001. Firms that completed share repurchases between 2002 and   2006, however, have not generated any better returns since that   time than those who did not. ’ ”   Based on this research, for both the   and     buybacks aren’t helping share prices. ” ’   So why do them at all?  it may just be an image play. Here   are the researchers (emphasis ours): ’ ”   In other words, all those theoretical   reasons   mean nothing. It’s about image. ” ’ ’ ”  our series with Marketplace, looks at what happens   when profits become a company’s product. For more, visit . ” ’Imagine a restaurant that always has some empty. ..’