’  ’ ”   It’s December 15, 2015, and an auditorium in Geneva is packed   with physicists. The air is filled with tension and excitement   because everybody knows that something important is about to be   announced.  ” ”   Jim Olsen, the CMS physics coordinator, takes the stage first,   giving a presentation with no surprises until the very end, when   two plots appear showing the   and     by a flood of particles emerging from     collisions between protons traveling at nearly the speed of   light. If you squint, there appears to be bump in the   experimental curve, suggesting too many events at one point than   theory would predict. It could be evidence for a new, unexpected     at a level that’s merely interesting, not   definitive. We’ve seen things like this before, and they almost   always go away when you look more closely.  ” ”   Then Marumi Kado from ATLAS steps up, with a strangely confident   look in his   when the results finally flash on the screen,   the audience understands why. ATLAS has seen the bump too, at the   same point as CMS did, but now it’s so prominent that you can’t   miss it. This really does look like a new particle, and if it is,   there is suddenly an enormous crack at the very heart of     physics.  ” ’is one of the simplest you can   imagine: it represents two high energy photons emerging from the   decay of a subatomic particle created in a     collision. ’ ”   It’s very similar to the signal that led to the discovery of the   Higgs boson in 2012. But this particle is not the Higgs boson: it   is six times more massive. ” ’’ ”   Nobody had predicted anything like this. It is shocking to the   physicists in the auditorium. People look around, astonished,   trying to confirm that their own reactions are reflected in what   they see in their colleagues’ faces. ” ’   If the observations are confirmed, it will be revolutionary. This   could mean nothing less than the fall of the Standard Model of   particle physics (SM) which has passed every experimental test   thrown at it since it was first put together over four decades   ago. ’ ’   The SM describes what the building blocks of the universe are and   how they work, and from there, at least in principle, explains   every other phenomenon in nature. Originally theorists thought   that the SM would be an approximation of a more fundamental   theory that would be quickly discovered.  ’ ’   Moreover, there are many reasons to believe that the SM is   incomplete. In particular, the mechanism that generates the mass   of the elementary particles suggests that the theory must be   modified at higher energies. To discover this new physics was the   number one motivation for the construction of the LHC and several   other experiments before that.  ’ ”   To theorists’ surprise, however, the SM has performed much better   than originally expected. This has been both a blessing and a   curse for particle physics for many years. On one hand, the   discovery of the Higgs boson was an enormous success, identifying   the SM’s last, and arguably most important, building block. On   the other, the fact that the Higgs has just the mass and all the   properties everyone expected generated a widespread pessimism   about new discoveries. The search for a more fundamental theory   might drag on indefinitely.  ” ’   But the bumps in the ATLAS and CMS data, which showed up at an   energy of 750 billion   (GeV) would completely   change this situation overnight, making it virtually certain that   more discoveries will be coming during coming years. If the hint   of a new particle is real, the successes of the SM suddenly will   have come to an end.  ’ ’   The importance of this result is clear to everybody working in   the field and it has immediately triggered a huge amount of work   on the possible implications. None of the more fundamental models   that currently exist as possible replacements for the SM can   explain the bump. If the SM has fallen it is likely not for any   reason we expected. ’ ’   If the new particle is real, it is absolutely unclear what might   be its role in the greater scheme of things. Maybe it is related   indirectly to the Higgs boson somehow, or maybe it is connected   with the puzzle of dark matter in the universe. Or maybe it is   just there by chance. Certainly these are questions that   scientist will have to answer in the future and more data will   help to understand what lies ahead.  ’ ’   This is by far the most exciting thing that has happened in   particle physics over the last three decades. If this hint of new   physics is   that could happen within just a   few weeks, or possibly even within   is difficult to state   the importance of such a discovery. It would be bigger than the   detection of the Higgs boson, which was just confirmation of what   was already known.  ’ ’   If the bump is real, we are about to start writing a whole new   chapter in the history of fundamental physics. It is impossible   to imagine where this could lead.  ’