’  ’ ’   Another Wall Street pro is cooling on .   Credit Suisse this week downgraded shares of the last major   consumer electronics superstore chain, to neutral from   outperform. ’ ”   Analyst Seth Sigman is also lowering the firm’s price target on   the stock to $31. 50 from $36. ” ’   Investors shook off the news. Best Buy may have opened slightly   lower on Wednesday after the downgrade, but it quickly bumped   into positive territory, where it closed out the day. ’ ’   Slapping a price target of $31. 50 on a stock that had closed at   $28. 80 the day before still opens the door for modest gains. ’ ”   If we dig deeper into Credit Suisse’s takedown, however, we see   legitimate concerns for Best Buy’s prospects during the latter   half of this year. A big worry here is that mobile in general and   ’s iPhone 7 in particular won’t be enough to   save the holiday quarter for Best Buy. ” ’’ ”   Sigman is basing his concerns on research done by fellow Credit   Suisse analyst Kulbinder Garcha, who covers Apple and also   happened to issue a new call on the   giant this   week. Garcha feels that the iPhone 7 won’t have enough     features to merit the kind of upgrade frenzy that   Apple experienced in late 2014 with the iPhone 6 and the iPhone 6   Plus. He feels that those meaty innovations will most likely have   to wait until the iPhone 8. ” ’   Garcha still sees    growth. He just feels that it   will be more muted. ’ ”   The difference between the fresh Credit Suisse takes is that the   firm is still bullish on Apple. He is slightly lowering his   fiscal 2017 earnings projections for Apple in light of what he   predicts will be lukewarm appeal for the iPhone 7   Apple’s next   fiscal year begins in October, around the time that the new   smartphone will most likely hit the market   but he is sticking   to his $150 price target. That’s 54% of upside if he’s right. ” ”   This all comes at a time when Best Buy isn’t at its best. Its    was a dud.   Revenue and comps were slightly negative, and its international   operations are faring even worse. Online sales and adjusted   earnings did move higher, but the company’s guidance calls for   margins to contract again during the current quarter on flat to   slightly negative   results. ” ’   Best Buy is in an understandable predicament. Sales of CDs, DVDs,   and video games   the   fare that used to drum up   repeat business   have gone digital. Best Buy is still selling   the devices that make digital delivery possible, but on that   front it is competing against lower prices offered by internet   retailers. ’ ”   Best Buy needs Apple as the tastemaker that turns heads with new   smartphone, tablet, smartwatch, and computer releases.   Unfortunately for Best Buy, analysts see Apple’s sales growth   being challenged in the coming quarters. Best Buy may need a new   savior this year. ” ’  owns shares of Apple. The Motley   Fool owns shares of and recommends Apple. The Motley Fool has the   following options: long January 2018 $90 calls on Apple and short   January 2018 $95 calls on Apple. Try any of our Foolish   newsletter services . We Fools may not all hold   the same opinions, but we all believe that  makes us better investors. The   Motley Fool has a . ’ ’Another Wall Street pro is cooling on Best Buy. ...’