’    ’ ’   IEX, the company founded by ”Flash Boys” hero Brad Katsuyama,   .  ’ ’   IEX, which has up until now operated as an alternative trading   system (ATS)  to   become a stock exchange last year. ’ ’   That   . ’ ’   Nasdaq recently said that the SEC could be  to become an exchange,   while Jeffrey Sprecher, CEO of Intercontinental Exchange   which   owns the New York Stock Exchange   has called  ’ ’   On Friday, June 17,  that IEX had won full approval. ’ ’   Katsuyama said in a statement: ’ ’   Business Insider spoke with Katsuyama before the decision about     trading, his mission, and the controversy   surrounding the firm. ’ ’   This interview has been edited for clarity and length. ’ ”Matt Turner: How’s business? ” ”Brad Katsuyama: Business is good. The company is   profitable. Everything is pointing in the right direction. We’ve   been stalled slightly with the application process, but it has   been rewarding in that it has created a huge amount of support   behind us, and our opposition has become very transparent. That   ultimately, long run, will help us. ” ”Turner: How do you run a business with all that   controversy? You’ve still got all those people out there outside   the office doing their    jobs. [Editor’s note:   Katsuyama has a   office on the 44th floor of 4 World   Trade Center.] ” ’Katsuyama: When it first started to happen, it   was pretty chaotic. We hit our rhythm pretty quickly in terms of   understanding what we can control and what we can’’t. Internally   we did a very good job of saying ”What are our priorities?” and   basically came to the resolution pretty early that there were a   lot of things we were unwilling to bend on. Once you realize that   there are only certain points which you are willing to negotiate,   it makes the negotiation much simpler. ’ ”   They’ve asked for more disclosure, they’ve asked for a variety of   things, and we’ve made a small change to the way that we route   shares. But were we willing to give up the speed bump? The answer   is no. It ultimately came down to, were we willing to change in a   way that would harm our ability to protect investors? The answer   is no. We’d rather be declined, in fact. We made that pretty   clear. Once you stop tossing and turning over decisions, once   you’ve got your priorities straight . .. we got our priorities   straight pretty early, so for us it has been a pretty focused   period. My wife says all the time she can’t believe how calm I am   through this whole thing. We feel very strongly about what we’re   doing and why we’re doing it. ” ’Turner: Had you expected the level of pushback?   You must have expected some, but it has gotten pretty heated. ’ ”Katsuyama: It surprises me because I never   expected the opposition to be as transparent against a solution   that protects investors. When we have basically an  it is such   a sharp contrast versus who is opposing us, and I’m surprised the   exchanges took that stance. I do think we’ll be able to look back   on this and feel like this was a pretty pivotal moment. ” ”   What would have been dangerous is if all this was playing out   privately in DC, behind the scenes, that would be more dangerous   to us. Because they could say publicly that they are supportive   of   solutions, but be working behind the scenes to   protect [the status quo]. I think that would have been the case   had we not had so much public support from some of the biggest   investors in the world. Having them on the record supporting us   forced the opposition, if they wanted to stop us, to be public in   their opposition, and that is what has led to a public debate   rather than a private one. A private one would have been hard   because then we would have had to say ’Oh, they are doing this   and doing that,’ without any real tangible things to point at.   Now they’re doing very public, nasty things, and that has been   helpful for us. ” ’Turner: You mentioned the exchanges. There has   also been some feedback from the   trading firms,   which are in many cases customers. Citadel in particular has been   highly critical. Has their response surprised you? ’ ’  ’ ”Katsuyama: It has been interesting because there   are some   traders that have been supportive of IEX,   like Virtu, and some that have been vocally opposed to us, like   Citadel. From our standpoint, we think it is good because we   don’t think all forms of   trading are good for the   market, and we’ve said that all along. It was never about   eliminating   trading; it was about eliminating unfair   advantages that are in the market. I think if you are a   beneficiary of these unfair advantages, you don’t like IEX. If   you don’t need these advantages to earn your living, then you’re   probably actually OK with what we’re doing, and maybe you like it   because other people are able to buy an advantage, whereas you’re   trying to earn it through your strategy or your fundamental   analysis. We’ve split the world of   trading in a   way. ” ’Turner: Would you have done anything differently   through this whole process? ’ ”Katsuyama: I feel like   not to say we haven’t   made mistakes, we’ve made them, we’ve learnt from them   but I   feel like we’ve done everything we can, and if we were to do it   all again we’d do it the same way. There wasn’t an easier path   for IEX. We were going to have to get into a large fight to come   out on the other end with the kind of market we wanted and with   our integrity intact. I don’t think there was a path of least   resistance that we could have traveled, that would have made   success easier. I don’t think so. We’ve tried to make the best   decision. Not all of them have been right, but we’ve gotten it   right quite a lot. ” ’   We would have liked to have fought back at times when we bit our   tongue. And just trying to understand that there is a level of   fatigue that the industry probably has. When someone says   something that is so blatantly wrong, responding to it actually   draws more attention to that comment than not responding. ’ ”   There have been things that we’ve seen   I’ve probably written a   number of   that have never seen the light of day   because   it is just lying, it is lying, but if I respond to this, if IEX   responds to this, have we emboldened that person? Have we   validated their opinion? It turns out that ignoring it at times   was the right call. We’ve done that a lot, in terms of trying to   say we know we’re right, we know our supporters know we’re right,   we’re trying to take the high road as much as possible. ” ’Turner: But you have fought back. ’ ”Katsuyama: We have   absolutely.  and we have   fought back on things that are fundamental to our market. What we   haven’t engaged in is the peanut gallery and chatter, and we know   that a lot of these talking heads   it is just not worth   responding. ” ”Turner: I notice you’ve got an award from the   Tribeca Disruptive Innovation Awards on your shelf. How hard is   it to disrupt an industry like finance? ” ’Katsuyama: It is easier to disrupt consumer   finance. It is much harder to disrupt institutional finance, Wall   Street. It is very heavily regulated, and because it is   institutional finance, you are dealing with incumbents. You have   to find a way to interact with the people that do face the end   client. It made the banks and brokers our clients, rather than us   trying to go to the end users ourselves. It is much harder than   building a product where the consumer can make the choice. For   us, the consumer can make the choice, but they also have to get   their broker to agree to that choice and get them to execute it   the way they want it.  ’ ’Turner: What does that look like? Are you   referring to ? ’ ”Katsuyama: It is kind of funny in a way, because   who actually creates the content? It is the banks and brokers.   The exchanges have put themselves in this interesting position   where they don’t create any original content, but they control   the distribution of that, and people have a regulatory obligation   to buy that data. Market data is one of the touchiest subjects in   the industry, and we’re on the side of the industry. The prices   are egregious. What the exchanges are charging is going to   change. It is funny because information in general, in other   industries, is becoming more free. ” ’  ’ ”Turner: You’ll have news by June 18. What will   happen if you get good news? ” ’Katsuyama: If there is good news, the brokers   will need some time to connect and configure their systems, and   we will give them some time to do that, and a couple months after   that it would be our official launch date. ’ ’Turner: And what if there is bad news? ’ ’Katsuyama: If it is unsuccessful, hopefully   we’’ll get details as to why. One of the challenges of going   through this process is understanding exactly why. It is one   thing for someone to say, ”IEX is unfair,” but tell me exactly   how it is, tell me exactly what rule. There has been a lot of   rhetoric. There hasn’’t been a lot of specificity. There are many   ways that we could probably protect investors, but understanding   what we can’’t do and can do would be helpful for us as we try and     a solution that may fit inside the regulation. ’ ’Turner: You would go again? ’ ”Katsuyama: Absolutely. Time is our friend right   now. We’re well capitalized and we’re profitable, and we have a   good base of supporters. We’ll definitely go again. ” ’Turner: You said a moment ago that some of the   rules seem a little unclear. It seems they were written for a   different kind of market. ’ ”Katsuyama: It was written at a time when I don’t   think anyone was considering this much controversy of 350   millionths of a second. That is the bit which makes us laugh,   where people say investors will see stale prices. It is 300   microseconds. This speed bump is 1, 000 times faster than you   blinking your eye. No one is going to notice any difference. The   other ironic part is that the complaint over the speed bump, the   350 microseconds, acts as if the market is devoid of latency   already. There is tons of latency. The Chicago Stock Exchange,   being in Chicago, automatically creates latency. These arguments   are odd if put in the proper context. If your goal is to create   the perception that IEX is unfair and will hurt the market, you   have to be a little bit bold in your rationality. ” ’Turner: You said at the outset that the company   is profitable. What does the profit and loss (P&L) statement   look like? ’ ”Katsuyama: We’ve raised over $100 million in   capital. We still have a lot of that. We still haven’t deployed a   lot of it. I can’t talk about our exact P&L, but we’re   profitable. I want to say it has probably been a year we’ve been   profitable. The trend on market share has been pretty good. The   last quarter over quarter was flat. Every quarter before that was   growing. It is partly a product of us being stuck in limbo. We’re   still the   or   ATS, so from that standpoint   we’re as large, roughly, as an ATS will get, which is also why it   is important for us to apply to go through the process of   becoming an exchange. It gives us the ability to scale. ” ’Turner: The last four years must have felt like   a crazy ride. How has it been? ’ ’  ’ ”Katsuyama: My personality and nothing from my   past would have ever predicted that I would be at the center of a   controversy. That is one of the ironies that Michael Lewis found.   He actually admitted that he was having trouble writing about me   in particular, exactly because of how uncontroversial I was. I   didn’t have this rebellious streak in me. To me, I’m a product of   circumstance. Because of the relationships I’ve developed with   people, it has helped me create the right time, the right   network, the right culture, that is helping us get through this. ” ’Turner: How so? ’ ”Katsuyama: We wanted to build a company that   reflected the mission we’re on   people who cared as much about   doing good as they did about making money. To do that you have to   find the right people. We’ve had a very good track record of   finding the right people. In a way, if I was this massively   controversial figure, it would have been harder for people to   sign up for this mission. I am a fairly     guy.   Don’t get me wrong, I have convictions. I’m not afraid to stand   up for what we believe in. It is shocking that I’m in the   position I’m in. ” ”Turner: But you give the impression that you   wouldn’t trade this position for something else. ” ”Katsuyama: This is the life that I am pretty   sure I was meant to lead. I’m pretty comfortable in it. I am very   thankful that Michael Lewis wrote the book the way he did,   because he kind of portrayed me in the way I think I am, meaning   this problem found me. I wasn’t looking to go out there and    . I really could have retired at RBC 30 years from   now. That would have been the best bet and the most likely   career. I liked it there. I had a lot of friends there. Some of   my friends worked there. It was safe. The money was good. That   was the most likely outcome. We stumbled onto this problem, and   one thing led to another. We do spend a lot of time trying to not   read a lot of things to really feed into that. ” ’   I can tell you   the ”60 Minutes” segment   I have been at events   where people have played bits of it. I watched it twice that   night. I probably watched it less than five times. It is just   doesn’’t help us run this company, help me run this company.   Running has been a great outlet. I try to meditate. I try to   focus on trying to run this company to the best of my ability,   making decisions and focusing on what we know we can control, and   putting people at this company in the best position to succeed.   That is my focus. A lot of things that go with everything that   has happened with us do not help me do those things, and, if   anything, make it harder to do those things. ’ ’  ’ ’Turner: How has it made it harder? ’ ”Katsuyama: It made it harder to find those   people after the book because the book added another element to   why someone would want to work here, other than doing the right   thing. I do think it made it slightly more confusing after the   book because we got flooded with résumés, and it was hard to   understand people’s intentions. Before anyone knew who we were,   especially before we had any funding, in those days it was either   you believe in this or you don’t believe in this. We started in a      room with no windows, with nine of us. ” ”   Part of the reason that we’re profitable is that we’ve been   diligent about costs. We’re not a typical startup because a lot   of us come from banks, and so we understand P&L. We’ve been   pretty smart about how we run this business. We came from very   humble beginnings. ” ”Turner: If you get approval, won’t your life get   easier? Does the controversy not die down? ” ”Katsuyama: I don’t know the answer to that. The   money hasn’t been lost; the wealth transference hasn’t occurred.   It will still be a battle. On June 17, we might get permission to   compete. It is still a competition. It is still going to be   fierce. I don’t really plan on letting our guard down. ” ’Turner: And how are you feeling ahead of the big   decision? ’ ”Katsuyama: I try not to think about it too much.   It is just another data point. Everything that needs to be said   has been said. We’ve done what we can do, and I do believe we’ve   done enough. ” ’IEX, the company founded by ”Flash Boys” hero. ..’