’  ’ ”   LAS VEGAS (AP)    Donald Trump railed Saturday against efforts by   some frustrated Republicans planning a   effort to try   to thwart him from becoming the party’s nominee, threatening at   one point to stop fundraising if Republicans don’t rally around   him. ” ’   Speaking at a theater at the Treasure Island hotel on the Las   Vegas strip, Trump referred to ”an insurgent group” trying to   deny him delegates at the party’’s July convention. ’ ’   ”Now you have a couple of guys that were badly defeated and   they’’re trying to organize maybe like a little bit of a delegate   revolt,” he said. ”I thought they already tried that.” ’ ’   Trump pushed back against such efforts several times during his   speech, claiming they were somehow ”illegal” and then dismissing   them as a   fabrication. ’ ’   ”It’’s all made up by the press,” he said. ”It’’s a hoax, I’’m   telling you.” ’ ’   Trump also wondered who his opponents would pick as a replacement     a problem that has plagued the ”Never Trump” movement for   months. ’ ’   ”Who are they going to pick? I beat everybody. But I don’’t mean   beat   I beat the hell out of them,” he said. ’ ’   Trump has continued to face resistance from Republicans who have   voiced increasing concern over his inflammatory rhetoric. And he   appeared increasingly frustrated Saturday, saying, ”It would be   helpful if the Republicans could help us a little bit.” ’ ”   The billionaire businessman also threatened that, if Republicans   don’t come together, he was prepared to stop fundraising and go   back to largely   his campaign. ” ’  ’ ’   ”I’’d love to do it,” said Trump, who has been holding fundraisers   across the county this week largely benefiting the Republican   National Committee. ”You know, life is like a   street.” ’ ’   A Republican National Committee spokesman did not immediately   respond to a request for comment. ’ ”   Trump’s event drew several thousand people, but many seats   remained empty when Trump began speaking because of security   screening delays. Even after he took the stage, the line of   supporters circled the slot machines on the casino floor.   Tourists carrying beer and wearing bikinis watched the crowds   with amusement. ” ’   Trump mistakenly blamed the delays on the Transportation Security   Administration, which sometimes handles audience screening but   was not involved in screening at the Treasure Island hotel.   Casino security, metro police and the Secret Service were   handling those efforts at the Las Vegas event. ’ ’   ”I’’m not happy about it, but I have to put up with it,” Trump   told supporters after erroneously blaming the TSA. ”They didn’’t   bring enough machines.” ’ ’   Trump has stepped up his criticism of President Barack Obama in   the wake of the Orlando nightclub shooting. In Las Vegas, he told   supporters: ”If you think Orlando was the end of it with this   weak attitude and this pathetic president we have, it wasn’’t,   folks.” ’ ’   He also offered a warning: ”You are going to have problems the   likes of which you’’ve never seen unless Donald Trump becomes your   president.” ’ ’LAS VEGAS (AP)    Donald Trump railed Saturday. ..’