’  ’ ”   The retail industry has been ailing, and it’s getting harder and   harder to find a way to survive. ” ’   Shoppers have continued to abandon stores like  and  only helping to throw the mall industry   into a . ’ ”   However, there’s a category that’s thriving: beauty and drug. ” ’   In a recent note to clients, consulting firm Conlumino called out   beauty and drug as the ”star performer for the month” of May,   while apparel sales fell. ’ ”   Millennials, as it stands, love spending money on makeup. When   Jim Cramer cited  that they’ll spend   money on, it cracked the list. The other two categories were   cellphones and Uber rides. ” ’   And when  polled   women   ages 13 to 29 to find out their favorite brands, MAC Cosmetics   came out on top   Sephora, Urban Decay, and Make Up For Ever all   cracked the top 10, too. ’ ’ ’ ”   But it’s not just millennials. ” ’   Neil Saunders, CEO of Conlumino, pointed out that American   consumers are transfixed on youth (something makeup can provide)   and that spending money on makeup can feel like a ”small   indulgence.” ’ ”   And the strength of Sephora and Ulta have underscored the   weaknesses in places like Macy’s, which   with its       have failed to keep consumers coming back. ” ’   ”As the stores are so poor, Macy’’s customer traffic is down and   people don’’t visit as much as they used to. This impacts on all   sectors, including beauty. That said, specialists like Ulta and   Sephora have wider ranges, very strong   offerings, and   better in store experiences,” Saunders wrote. ’ ”   Sephora, which is owned by fashion powerhouse LMH, also has a   very strong loyalty program that keeps consumers coming back to   go shopping, and it’s redefined the way people shop for this   category   so it makes sense that one particular department store   has incorporated Sephora stores inside its own preexisting   stores. ” ’   ”In short, while department stores used to be a key destination   for beauty many of the mainstream players have been outsmarted by   specialists   which [is] one of the reasons JCPenney has   integrated Sephora into many of its stores!” he wrote. ’ ’ ’ ’   Another reason that consumers might be enamored with these stores   is that they sell experiences   something . Sephora offers classes and     makeovers, and Ulta even has salons. ’ ”   And the numbers tell all: In its most recent quarter, Ulta’s   comparable sales rose an impressive 15. 2%. In fiscal 2015,    said Sephora’s category, Selective   Retailing, saw revenue grow 18%. All of this starkly contrasts   stores like Macy’s and Nordstrom’s negative comparable sales. ” ’   Making things harder yet is that retailers are now forced to   compete for wallet share. ’ ’   ”One of the interesting things is that categories are now   competing for spend with each other like never before,” Saunders   wrote in an email this past week to Business Insider. ”Consumers   still feel constrained and have limited budgets. This means that   buying something in one category could mean another category   loses out!” ’ ’   For now, that appears to be department stores. ’ ’The retail industry has been ailing, and. ..’