’      ’ ’   Warning: Spoilers ahead for ”Game of Thrones” season six,   including speculation of future events.  ’ ’   It’’s that time of year again! You know, the annual   for   the appearance of Lady Stoneheart on ”Game of Thrones.” Confused?   We’’ll explain. But before you get too excited, know that there’’s   a good chance all the hype is for naught.  ’ ”   In George R. R. Martin’s book series, Catelyn Stark is resurrected   after being murdered at the Red Wedding after the Boltons and   Freys betrayed her son Robb. Catelyn’s body is found by a group   of outlaws called the Brotherhood without Banners. The leader of   this group is Beric Dondarrion, a Ned Stark loyalist who has been   resurrected multiple times by a red priest named Thoros of Myr.  ” ’   Beric chooses to pass his life source along to Catelyn,   permanently dying and bringing her back from the dead. She takes   the name Lady Stoneheart, and begins exacting vengeance on the   Freys by luring them into traps in the Riverlands and then   hanging them. ’ ’  ’ ’   Ever since season three episode nine when the Red Wedding took   place, book readers have been expecting her to turn up on the   series. But, despite  there has been no sign of   her.  ’ ’   In the books, Stoneheart spends most of her time around the   Riverlands killing Freys with the help of the Brotherhood.   Brienne and Podrick are in the area as well, looking for Sansa   Stark, while Jaime is traveling the Riverlands on diplomatic   missions. Stoneheart eventually meets Brienne and Podrick, and   orders them to bring Jaime to her. ’ ’   Sound familiar?  ’ ’   Jaime, Brienne, and Podrick were all just in the Riverlands   together. Though the circumstances around their arrival to   Riverrun (the castle that was temporarily held by Brynden   ”Blackfish” Tully) are totally different in the show, book   readers couldn’’t help but notice the similar storylines.  ’ ’   Plus, episode six had a convenient mention of the Brotherhood   ”attacking” Freys, and then we actually  again.   We also saw a glimpse of  Bran had.   Everything has been aligning for the potential introduction of   Stoneheart. ’ ’   This Stoneheart set up has fans   many of whom never lost hope   for the appearance of Stoneheart   excited to see her return at   some point in the coming episodes.  ’ ’  ’ ’   ” ’ ’   Fans on Twitter were stoked as well. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tThat Next Week On reeks of Lady Stoneheart. It is known. ’t’t’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tBrotherhood   Banners was mentioned for the first time in forever. Hoping that means Lady Stoneheart   ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tBrotherhood without banners are fighting Freys. Brienne is going to Riverrun. Lady Stoneheart please!   ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tIf tonight isn’t a Lady Stoneheart   then I figure nothing ever will be.   ” ’   Personally, I’’m not sold on Stoneheart’’s return. Yes, the   circumstances are more ”teasing” than ever, but it doesn’’t mean   Stoneheart is a sure thing. ’ ”   If the show was following the exact timeline of the books, she   should have been introduced around the season three finale or the   very beginning of season four. Time and time again, we’ve had   hints and teases which surmounted to nothing.  ” ’   Book readers speculated Stoneheart may appear in the season three   finale, which was titled ”Mhysa”   a Valyrian word for ”mother.”   But no dice. Enthusiasts settled, figuring season four would be   as good a time as any to see Stoneheart unleashed. ’ ’  ’ ”   The show had begun diverging from the books’ timeline anyway, so   it made sense. Then season four aired and fans got pumped when   actress Lena Headey  ” ’   The photo appeared around the middle of season four, with just   three episodes left in the season. Book readers were convinced   . Stoneheart was finally coming.   The final episode for season four was titled ”The Children.”   Stoneheart’’s revenge is motivated by her dead children. It was   all coming together. ’ ’   But the season came to an end, and still no Stoneheart. The   director of the finale, Alex Graves, had to explain to viewers   Stoneheart .   The actress who plays Catelyn, Michelle Fairley, said in an   interview about the Stoneheart letdown: ” ’ ’   Undeterred, some Stoneheart hopefuls still believed it was all a   ruse. Surely she would come in season five. ’ ’  ’ ’   Same story, slightly different ending. The final episode of   season five was titled ”” Fans felt like the   showrunners know fans are on the lookout for any possible signs   of LSH. One Reddit user, CerealSlayer, pointed out in the   appendix of ”A Feast for Crows,” Lady Stoneheart’’s entry states   she is sometimes called Mother Mercy.  ’ ’   Once again, the hype train rolled into the station and fans   jumped aboard. Season five ended. No Stoneheart.  ’ ”   So there’s something redundant about getting excited for   Stoneheart, yet again. Plus, her character feels a bit pointless   at this time in the show. ” ”   Stoneheart’s purpose in the books, at least from what we’ve seen   of her so far, seems to be centered around Stark vengeance. So   far in the written series, none of the Stark children are   empowered to the point of battling against the Boltons or Freys.   Sansa is still in the Eerie with Littlefinger, Jon is currently   dead (and awaiting resurrection) and Arya is still in Faceless   Man training while Bran is beyond the Wall, and Rickon is M. I. A.  ” ’   The show has surpassed the text at this point and made several   changes which put the Starks into perfect position for revenge     without the help of Stoneheart. Jon and Sansa are together,   rallying the North and prepping for battle against the Boltons.   Brienne and Podrick are working on behalf of Sansa to recruit the   Blackfish. Arya just abandoned her role as ”no one” and is poised   to return to Westeros. ’ ’  ’ ’   The Stark kids seem to have the whole ”avenge Robb and Ned” thing   under control. What would Stoneheart add at this point? Her   character in the books is like a secret Stark agent, working   covertly to take down the Freys and, eventually, the Boltons.   Stoneheart gave book readers a sense of hope when it came to   seeing the Starks get revenge.  ’ ”   Show watchers aren’t in need of her the way book readers were,   and it’s this point which has me doubting she’ll appear. ” ’   Not to mention the reappearance of Beric Dondarrion means (to me,   anyways) that Stoneheart won’’t be entering the storyline. In the   books, Stoneheart is revived when Beric chooses to give her the   ”kiss of life,” sacrificing his own resurrection powers to bring   her back. If Beric is still alive and leading the Brotherhood,   that means Catelyn’’s dead body has been rotting this entire time.   We can assume at least two years have gone by since the Red   Wedding in the show universe. If Beric hasn’’t resurrected her   yet, there’’s no way her corpse is in decent enough shape for her   to be revived.  ’ ’   Of course, I may need to eat my words by the end of season six.   And I will gladly book a last minute ticket on board the hype   train if Stoneheart pops up. That would be a huge shock to   everyone who has lost hope, and vindication for those who never   stopped believing.  ’ ’Warning: Spoilers ahead for ”Game of Thrones”. ..’