’  ’ ”   Investors of Chipotle Mexican Grill  aren’t having very much fun right   now. The burrito chain is suffering from a massive sales decline,   driven by multiple health scandals that have made customers think   twice about frequenting the company’s restaurants. Comparable   sales plunged nearly 30% during the first quarter of 2016,   leading to Chipotle’s first quarterly loss as a public company. ” ’   The optimists among Chipotle investors are betting on seeing the   company quickly fix its problems and return to growth. But   customer loyalty is hard to win and easy to lose. ’ ’   Warren Buffett, the famed value investor and CEO of   Berkshire Hathaway, has dispensed countless   nuggets of wisdom over the decades. One particular quotation from   the Oracle of Omaha perfectly describes the pickle that Chipotle   finds itself in: ”It takes 20 years to build a reputation and   five minutes to ruin it. If you think about that, you’’ll do   things differently.” ’ ”   Chipotle has been wildly successful  since its founding more than 20 years ago. The   menu is simple, the restaurants are generally pleasant, and the   food is relatively inexpensive. The most important factor,   though, has been the company’s brand. ” ”   Chipotle has successfully convinced consumers that its food is   simply better. Its ingredients are fresh, natural, and held to   strict standards. In 2015, the company stopped serving pork   entirely for a time because of its inability to find suppliers   that met its   standards, a move that only   reinforced the company’s message. Likewise, genetically modified   ingredients are a big   at Chipotle. ” ’  ’ ”   In terms of quality, there’s no question that Chipotle’s food is   superior compared with that of many of the chain’s competitors.   Chipotle’s strategy is aligned with the general trend away from   processed foods, which has helped propel the company’s sales and   profits higher in recent years. Chipotle didn’t need to do much,   other than continue to offer the same simple menu, to attract and   retain customers. ” ”   Chipotle’s reputation is its most important competitive   advantage. It is what makes Chipotle stand out from the countless   other options presented to consumers each day. The worst thing   that could have happened was for an event to bring Chipotle’s   reputation into question. ” ”   Then in July, five people in Washington state contracted E. coli   from eating at Chipotle. If the problems had stopped there, the   company was unlikely to have been affected all that much. But a   series of additional health crises over the following months   pointed to a systemic flaw in Chipotle’s safety procedures. In   August, hundreds of customers and employees in California   contracted norovirus. In Minnesota, 64 people were sickened by   salmonella. More E. coli cases later popped up in multiple states   across the country. And norovirus popped up again, this time in   Massachusetts. ” ”   For all of these outbreaks to happen at roughly the same time   required some serious bad luck in addition to the weaknesses in   the company’s procedures. Another factor is Chipotle’s supply   chain, which is complicated by the company’s efforts to source   ingredients locally when possible. Chipotle has taken steps to   reduce the risk of future outbreaks, but the damage to its   reputation has been done. ” ’  ’ ”   Chipotle’s challenge is not simply winning back customers. The   company has to pry customers away from its competitors, which   have collectively absorbed the business fleeing the burrito   chain. Chipotle has handed out tens of millions of coupons for   free burritos to try to get customers to come back, and it is   starting a loyalty program, at least temporarily. That’s despite   the fact that, less than a year ago, Mark Crumpacker, Chipotle’s   chief creative and development officer, said in a conference call   that the company didn’t think that loyalty programs work. ” ’   ”We’’ve studied this   and we don’’t believe the general   supposition that loyalty will make less frequent customers more   frequent,” he said. ”We’’ve studied that and just simply don’’t   believe that to be true.” ’ ’   Times have changed, of course, and the company can no longer   count on organic customer loyalty to drive sales. ’ ”   I don’t doubt that Chipotle will eventually recover, but I think   it will take a lot longer than the most optimistic Chipotle bulls   assume. Customer loyalty is a fickle thing, and it is much easier   to drive people away than it is to bring them back. All the free   burritos in the world won’t rebuild the trust that Chipotle’s   health crises destroyed. ” ’ ’ ’  owns shares of Berkshire   Hathaway (B Shares). The Motley Fool owns shares of and   recommends Berkshire Hathaway (B Shares) and Chipotle Mexican   Grill. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services . We Fools may not all hold the same   opinions, but we all believe that  makes us better investors. The   Motley Fool has a . ’ ’Investors of Chipotle Mexican Grill (NYSE:CMG). ..’