’  ’ ’   The Wall Street story on China has changed. ’ ’   The restructuring reform promised last year is out the window.   China has chosen risk. ’ ’   Why? Well, because it can wait for now. ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Now you may be saying to yourself, Linette, we’ve known for   years that China’s economic model is predicated on building debt.   This is nothing new. ” ”   To that I say, yes and no. Yes, China’s current economic model   relies heavily on investment spurring growth, rather than   domestic consumption. But the country was supposed to be edging   away from that model. ” ”   In September, the government made it clear that growing debt and   a lack of productivity meant that the time to pull this off was   now. That meant winding down unproductive industries, making   credit harder to come by, and restructuring the debt on China’s   balance sheet. ” ”   That’s when the government started talking about  and laying out some pretty vague plans   for turning its economy around. ” ”   So for a while, that was enough for most people on Wall Street to   believe that hard times were coming   but for everyone’s good.   This became the base case   believing in the Chinese government’s   ability to handle this situation and commit to reform. ” ’   The ”authoritative figure” Goldman is referring to, for example,   is the author of an   written by the Chinese government that   told investors not to lose heart. It said that officials are   still focused on mitigating   risk. ’ ”   China’s actions haven’t jibed with that, though, especially after   a massive market scare in February after which the government   started loosening monetary and credit policy again. ” ”   That is why now Wall Street has come to a different conclusion   about China’s base case. It is slowly evolving into China is   going to delay reforms until it has no choice. ” ’   As a result, those problems will become larger and more difficult   to manage. ’ ”   It didn’t take much to find things to support this narrative,   either. Take, for example,  just as they did during the hottest times of China’s   housing boom. Now, of course, demand is not the same as it was   then and prices are even less realistic than they were before. ” ”   The way Wall Street talks about it, though, there’s no telling   how long China can make it like this, given that China owns most   of its own debt. ” ”   There’s a nuance with that, though, and Peking University   economist Christopher Balding nailed it in a blog post recently.   It’s that you should believe what Chinese officials have been   saying   that they will try to reform the economy while keeping   credit spigots on. ” ”   The problem with that is that eventually it’s going to take a   gargantuan amount of credit to keep things going. He wrote    ” ’   As this debt problem grows, the divide between what China needs   and what its government is willing to give will grow as well. ’ ”   It implies that the economy is running away from the government     that eventually, just maintaining things as they are will be a   form of tightening. That’s when reform will come hard, whether   officials mandate it or not. ” ’The Wall Street story on China has changed. The. ..’