’  ’ ’   What would you do if your boss fired you overnight? With no more   paychecks coming in, how would you pay the bills, put a roof over   your head, and feed your family? ’ ”   I know what I would do: nothing. Because I have several bosses,   including myself. When you have multiple income streams, losing   one is not that big a deal. I know you probably think you can’t   work any more than you already do, with your full time job and   other personal commitments. ” ”   That is fine. It doesn’t prevent you from trying to add one or   more streams to your monthly income. ” ’   That can include: ’ ”   And much more. As you often hear say when it comes to investing,   don’t put all your eggs in the same basket. Solely relying on   employment income is doing just that, putting yourself at risk   through lack of diversification. Having several income streams   makes you much stronger in case of a layoff. ” ’’ ’   As a real life example, here is where my money comes from every   month: ’ ”   That’s 15 income streams right there (counting three rents and   three websites as six streams) plus one stream per freelance or   translation client. Some streams are recurring, some I only get a   few times a year. Sometimes I’ll have a dozen freelance clients,   sometimes I’ll have none. ” ’   What is unlikely is losing all my clients the same month my three   tenants vacate my rental, the stock market crashes and all my   peer to peer loans default. So while my monthly income will   fluctuate, it will never be $0. And I will never have to rely on   any specific one of them, like you are doing with your day job. ’ ’   In an ideal world, you will build a stream of passive income,   through dividends or real estate for example, one stream at a   time, until the combined income surpasses what you make at your   day job, and you become financially independent. ’ ’   In reality, that does take a lot of time and hard work to   achieve. But in the meanwhile, every income source is a little   help when it comes to building your retirement nest egg. ’ ’   Because there is an added bonus to having multiple income   streams. Financial independence is a simple concept, albeit not   an easy one to implement. ’ ’   You need to spend way less than you earn, so you can achieve a   high savings rate, which, once  for a decade or two, will   bring you the freedom to not have to work for money any longer. ’ ’   Spending much less than you earn can be done two ways: ’ ’   If you take a good look at your expenses, you will probably find      and spending without drastically impacting your quality of life. ’ ’   However, once you are down to a reasonable level of spending, the   only way to cut off some more is by implementing radical changes,   such as moving to a tinier place, in a worse neighborhood, or   taking in a dozen roommates. ’ ’   While most people can stand to significantly reduce their   expenses, you can only reduce your expenses so much before you   start sacrificing quality of life. ’ ’   On the other hand, there is no limit to increasing your income.   If you make $2, 500 a month and spend $2, 250, your savings rate is   10%. Bring your expenses down to $2, 000, and you are saving 20%   every month. Good job! However, going under $2, 000 might feel   like a bit of a stretch. ’ ’   But if you can find one client, willing to pay you $50 per week   for a two hour lesson (what worked for me was tutoring, French   classes and piano lessons. You can teach anything you are good   at) or a freelance project, you have made another $200 this   month. Find a couple more clients, and you are now making $500   more every month. ’ ’   You have learned to live on $2, 000, so your savings rate is now a   whopping 33%. Assuming a safe withdrawal rate of 4% you need a   nest egg of $600, 000 to retire on $2, 000 a month. ’ ’   Keep earning $3, 000 and living on $2, 000, and invest your savings   at 8% annually, after 20 years, you will have $592, 947. 22 in the   bank. ’ ’   Financial independence is just 20 years away. If you keep living   on $2, 000 and making $2, 500 however, it will take just over 27   years to reach financial independence. Still good news if you are   a young professional in your mid 20s, you could retire in your   early 50s. ’ ”   But if you are in your mid 30s already, and don’t want to work   past 60, you need to boost your savings rate. And nothing will   help you do that better than having several income streams. ” ’What would you do if your boss fired you. ..’