’  ’ ’   You may have heard about the blockchain. ’ ”   It’s a kind of distributed ledger, and Wall Street is buzzing   with its potential benefits. ” ’   Autonomous Research has called the technology a ”,” and Goldman Sachs has said the technology ”.” ’ ”   There’s more to it than hype. ” ’   Many companies across the capital markets are actively building   teams, assigning budgets, and working on proofs of concept,   according to a report published Thursday by Greenwich Associates. ’ ’   ”We have moved beyond the hype to the point where a majority of   capital markets companies are very focused on implementing the   technology,” said Richard Johnson, VP of the market structure and   technology practice at Greenwich Associates. ’ ’   The study includes survey responses from 134 global market   participants working on blockchain technology in a range of   industries. Based on the data, the estimated annual budget for   blockchain initiatives in 2016 is $1 billion. ’ ’   To break it down, blockchain has the potential to allow a digital   asset to be securely and seamlessly transferred from one party to   another, eliminating the need for   intermediaries and   shortening settlement time to seconds. This could greatly reduce   costs and risk, and create new revenue opportunities by making   markets more efficient. ’ ’   This chart shows what the industry believes to be the main   benefits of blockchain: ’ ’  ’ ’   It all appears pretty exciting. By the end of 2015, many   companies had begun experimenting with proofs of concepts with   different asset classes to see if the hype did in fact live up to   reality. ’ ’   Nasdaq has used blockchain to  for example, and the Depository   Trust and Clearing Corporation . Ipreo   and Symbiont have used blockchain to set up a  in the   market. ’ ’   The Australia Securities Exchange is  and will decide by   if it will   replace its   clearing and settlement system with a   blockchain solution. On June 22, the ASX announced a $7 million   increase in investment in Digital Asset Holdings, its partner in   this development. And  the industrywide body trying to   bring blockchain technology to finance. ’ ’  ’ ”   The potential for blockchain extends beyond capital markets.   Goldman Sachs published a report last month  that   extend beyond the financial services industry. These include   storing people’s online identities on the blockchain, storing   property records and a distributed electricity network. ” ’   Sounds revolutionary. Sign me up, right? Not so fast. ’ ’   There are a few major impediments for widespread use of   blockchain, including regulation and cost. Implementing and   standardizing blockchain would be expensive, but the belief is   that the end benefits and cost savings would significantly   outweigh the cost of implementation. ’ ”   The most significant impediment, according to the Greenwich   report, is vested interest in legacy systems. What we have now   works and has worked, although it’s not as optimized as it could   and should be. ” ’   Whatever the drawbacks, companies are signing up fast to get in   on the blockchain action. A majority of the respondents in the   Greenwich Associates report said they believe that blockchain   technology would have a meaningful effect in at least one area of   capital markets within two years. ’ ’   ”It’’s very much a race at this point,” said Johnson. ’ ’  ’ ’Get updates in your inbox.’ ’Subscribe to Fintech Briefing and never miss an update!’ ”You may have heard about the blockchain. It’s a. ..”