’  ’ ”   When Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive officer of Facebook,   posted a photo celebrating Instagram’s latest user numbers, he   piqued interest in another matter entirely: online privacy. ” ”   The image revealed a surprisingly makeshift security precaution   against hackers. The   coder and   of the   world’s largest social network apparently covers both his laptop   camera and microphone jack with tape. ” ”   spotted Mr. Zuckerberg’s   laptop in the background of   the photo he posted Tuesday. The laptop does appear to really   belong to Zuckerberg   it’s sitting on the same desk he showed   off as his own in a  office tour. ” ’  ’ ’   ”I think Zuckerberg is” Graham Cluley, an online security expert and   consultant, wrote in an email to The New York Times Wednesday.   ”As well as intelligence agencies and conventional online   criminals who might be interested in targeting his billions,   there are no doubt plenty of mischievous hackers who would find   it amusing to spy upon such a   figure.” ’ ’   Even the director of the FBI, James Comey, revealed he puts tape   over his personal laptop’’s camera   though he didn’’t elaborate on   its utility in his offhanded comment. ”,” Mr. Comey said   in response to a question at Kenyon College in April, as NPR   reported. ’ ’   The   camera and microphone jack are intended to protect   against hackers using your laptop camera to take surreptitious   pictures or videos or accessing your microphone to eavesdrop on   conversations   a possibility once your device has been accessed   through ”ratting.” ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’t3 things about this photo of Zuck:Camera covered with tapeMic jack covered with tapeEmail client is Thunderbird  ’ ’   ”Ratting” refers to the use of a    which is a software that allows someone to remotely control a   computer. They’’re usually sent as an email attachment or   downloaded alongside an innocuous program, like a game. ’ ’   Once the RAT has enabled administrative control, it can activate   a webcam or microphone      in   addition to other snooping including accessing credit card   information and taking screenshots. ’ ’   Basic security precautions can be taken against ”ratting” include   updating software regularly, installing   software and   a firewall, and not clicking suspicious links. ’ ’   Simple moves, including using a different password for every   site, can prevent security headaches, as Zuckerberg has learned.    claiming they used the   password made public in a database of passwords hacked from   LinkedIn in 2012. ’ ”   But  reporters refuted the     microphone trick and found neither clear tape nor   thicker gaffer’s tape to effectively reduce the microphone’s   audio pickup, even with a second layer. Mashable recommended a   slightly more complicated approach, instead, . ” ’When Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive. ..’