’  ’ ’   The country has seemingly reached a pivotal moment in the debate   over gun control. ’ ”   Under intense pressure following the horrific Orlando terror   attack   where 49 people were killed during the deadliest mass   shooting in US history   senators and congressmen are proposing   varying legislation aimed at stopping individuals on the FBI’s   terror watch list from purchasing firearms, while Congressional   Democrats staged an unprecedented demonstration on the House   floor demanding action. ” ’   ”Yeah, we’’re watching stuff unfold,” Shannon Watts, founder of   Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America, a branch of   Everytown for Gun Safety, told Business Insider. ’ ’   ”We’’re watching it all unfold. We’’re hoping the momentum carries   through the summer and something comes out of this,” Watts said.   ”From [Connecticut Sen. Chris Murphy’’s] filibuster, to the     to lawmakers working together to craft legislation that   is bipartisan. We’’re very hopeful.” ’ ’   But even amid the growing push to accomplish something, it still   looks unlikely that reforms will pass. ’ ”   Earlier this week, Maine Sen. Susan Collins put forth the first   Senate proposal to stop those on the FBI’s terror watch list from   having the ability to purchase firearms. The legislation, which   had some bipartisan support, came after four     amendments looking to get attached to a massive spending bill all   failed in a Monday vote. ” ’   But instead of putting the proposal before the body of Congress   for a vote to pass, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell put it   up for a tabling vote. It ultimately survived the procedural   measure 52 to 45, but for the bill to pass, it needs 60 votes     and that alone makes it unlikely that McConnell will put it   before the Senate. ’ ’   ”Collins supporters won,” Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid, a   supporter, said following the vote. ”That was their victory. It   was the first time since the historic vote of Senator Feinstein   dealing with assault weapons where the [National Rifle   Association] had been in a situation where they can’’t declare   victory. They lost this one.” ’ ’  ’ ’   The NRA   in addition to the American Civil Liberties Union     opposes Collins bill. ’ ’   ”No one wants terrorists to have legal or illegal access to   firearms,” Chris Cox, executive director of NRA, said in a   statement. ”Keeping guns from terrorists while protecting the due   process rights of   citizens are not mutually   exclusive. Unfortunately, Sen. Collins and others are focusing   their efforts on unconstitutional proposals that would not have   prevented the Orlando terrorist attack. The American people want   Congress to stop playing politics and pass policies that will   keep them safe from terrorists.” ’ ’  ’ ’   In the House, the unprecedented     lead by Democrats   demanding a   bill, similar to one from Feinstein that   failed in the Senate, made for some of the loudest noise yet. But   it too appeared to not lead to much. ’ ’   A visibly frustrated House Speaker Paul Ryan ripped the     during his Thursday press conference, calling it a ”fundraising”   stunt that tossed aside the rules of decorum. ’ ’   ”We watched a publicity stunt, a fundraising stunt, descend an   institution that many of us care a great deal about,” Ryan said,   responding to a question from a reporter about what precedent the     sets. ”So, yeah, I think it sets a very dangerous   precedent.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Watts admitted that possibly the most significant thing to come   out of the   was the publicity it generated. But, she said,   publicity stunts are not unique to one party in Congress. ’ ’   She mentioned the many times House Republicans have voted to   repeal the Affordable Care Act with full knowledge that it would   never make it past President Barack Obama. ’ ’   ”Democrats and Republicans alike are guilty of political stunts,”   she said. ”But thousands of Americans have died since Paul Ryan   has become speaker, and I’’m glad he’’s paying attention.” ’ ”   Watts said that although none of the legislation proposed before   Congress has passed during what’s been a seemingly intense and   heavy daily push of advocacy from representatives, the past week   hasn’t been a loss for   advocates. ” ’   ”It is so wonderful to see that we’’ve finally bridged the   intensity gap on this issue in the country,” she said, adding   that ”American people now see that this is an issue their   lawmakers are willing to fight for.” ’ ’   ”And that, you know, it’’s a sea change in gun politics,” she   continued. ”It’’s a watershed moment for our issue. It’’s   absolutely going to be a wedge issue in the November election.” ’ ’The country has seemingly reached a pivotal. ..’