’  ’ ’   They looked like any other Googlers, tapping away on their   laptops while sitting in a common area in the Google New York   office. ’ ’   But in reality, they were spies. ’ ’   Scientists had sent them there on a single reconnaissance   mission: Observe the snack choices people made while walking   through the nearby ”” or the break room. ’ ’   The   was designed so that one beverage station was   located about six feet from a snack bar containing M&Ms,   nuts, and other treats. The other beverage station was located   about 18 feet away. ’ ”   The team of scientists, which included Google’s global food,   health, and wellness program manager, wanted to know: Was the   setup of the   affecting people’s snacking behavior?    Specifically, would Googlers who took a drink from the station   closer to the snacks be more likely to grab one than those who   used the beverage station farther away? ” ’   After analyzing over 1, 000 beverage choices, the researchers   concluded that the design of the   did, in fact, have   a big effect on snacking behavior. ’ ’   Googlers who visited the beverage station closer to the snacks   were a whopping 69% more likely to snag a snack than those who   used the beverage station farther away. The findings, cited by   the  will be published in   the August issue of the . ’ ”   Of course, it’s possible that people chose a specific beverage   station because they wanted a snack or wanted to avoid temptation     and not just because their desk was located closer to one   beverage station or the other. But the researchers effectively   ruled out that possibility because they only observed a few   employees walking past one beverage station to use another. ” ’   Another interesting finding: Men were much more influenced than   women were by the proximity of snacks. Men were about twice as   likely to grab a snack when they used the beverage station   nearby; women were only about 25% more likely. ’ ’   The researchers put these results in perspective by calculating   that a   man who drinks three beverages a day and uses   the station closer to the snacks could wind up eating an   additional 81 snacks a year. That means he could gain at least   2. 5 pounds a year. ’ ’  ’ ”   This study is hardly the first time Google’s experimented with   tweaking its office environment to help employees develop healthy   habits. ” ’   For example, according to  a few years ago Google decided to   conceal M&Ms in opaque jars and display healthful snacks like   dried fruit in glass jars. Possibly as a result, New York   Googlers ended up consuming 3. 1 million fewer calories from   M&Ms over the course of seven weeks. ’ ’   In another experiment, reported in  researchers promoted relatively   unpopular vegetables as the ”vegetable of the day” with photos   and trivia facts next to a dish featuring that vegetable. The   number of employees who tried the dish increased by 74%. ’ ”   These solutions might seem ridiculously simple   like something   out of a kindergarten class   and they are. That’s the beauty. ” ”   If you’re looking to avoid mindless snacking and packing on the   pounds at work, consider advising your office manager to   rearrange the food and drinks in the kitchen or the break room.   If that’s not possible, at least be aware of the fact that you’re   more likely to snack when the good stuff is right in front of   your face. ” ’They looked like any other Googlers, tapping. ..’