’  ’ ’   In 2014, Uber’’s office in Lyon, France, unveiled what’’s now the     company’’s most infamous ad campaign: pairing ”hot   chick” women drivers with passengers for a 20 minute trip. ’ ”   The promo video, with   of women’s breasts strapped under   seat belts, was taken down as soon as Uber’s headquarters caught   wind of it.  ” ’   ”It was a clear misjudgment by the local team and we apologize to   the Uber community,” an Uber spokesperson  at the time. ’ ’ the   danger of a local city team making a misjudgment is amplified.   Instead of being in 50 cities around the world, the company is   now in more than 450. Employee headcount has ballooned from 500   to 10, 000, spread across all corners of the globe. And as Uber   plans an aggressive expansion in China, the growth will continue. ’ ”   Uber’s sprawling network of autonomous city outposts has helped   the   company expand at a record pace, upending the   entire taxi industry and bolstering a $60 billion valuation. But   the free rein that Uber gave its regional branches can be a     sword. ” ’   Now Uber is taking steps to impose more adult supervision while   trying not to kill the magic formula behind its success. Uber   says it is putting up more ”guardrails,” including exerting more   centralized control on its messaging, bolstering communications   between local offices and adding more oversight where necessary. ’ ’   ”I think the vision, the strategy, the culture, the things that   we stand for are so clear now that if something like [Lyon] were   to happen today, immediately there would be people on the teams   today to say ’’Hey is this really what we stand for’’ and ’’What   does the communications team think about it? ’’” Uber’’s general   manager of France, Thibaud Simphal, told Business Insider. ’ ’   Because of the way Uber seeds cities, its field offices have a   lot of power.  ’ ’   Uber usually sends a city ”launcher” to find the first three   employees: a general manager t0 run the city, a marketing   manager, and an operations and logistics manager to handle a lot   of the interactions with drivers.  ’ ’   Those teams hire and build out a city’’s operations, including   finding more people to seed the smaller cities in the surrounding   area. Uber employees fly to headquarters for ”Uberversity” to get   indoctrinated in the Uber way, but otherwise, they’’re largely   left on their own, essentially operating as little fiefdoms. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”City teams have a ton of flexibility,” said Nick Anderson, a   former general manager based out of Chicago who left to start his   own company, . ”HQ   sets the goals, and it’’s the city teams jobs to beat them and   really grow the market as quickly as possible.” ’ ”   And while Uber’s SF headquarters gets most of the attention, some   of its biggest developments have come from its city offices     like the Uber kitten marketing stunt that came out of Seattle and   went viral from there. ” ’   Surge pricing, for example, . The   team on the ground realized there was nothing to incentivize   drivers to be on the road at  when the bars closed. Adding surge pricing, which   increases the cost for riders and subsequently the payouts for   drivers, righted the supply and demand imbalance. ’ ”   Now, it’s a core part of the company’s business. ” ’   ”The culture is very much one around experimenting and trying new   things. Cities did not have to go very high up,” said one former   operations manager, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. ”It   was a really interesting mix of plugging in and staying connected   to the main team, but also staying independent enough to try some   of your own experiments.” ’ ’   Uber has delegated so much responsibility to cities that in  ’ ’   The former Uber driver, who who asked for anonymity because of a     agreement, described overseeing a wide range of   duties in his local region.  ’ ”   Uber didn’t have a physical presence in the driver’s city   its   closest office in the area was three hours away in a bigger city.   After the driver emailed Uber’s local office with suggestions,   Uber deputized him, empowering him to build the business. ” ’  ’ ”   He started going to bars and hotels, handing out free Uber codes   to give to guests. He established office hours in a café and   later in an   shop that soon doubled as a vehicle   inspection lot. And when it came to relations with the city’s   Chamber of Commerce, it was the contractor for Uber   and not a     employee   that spoke on behalf of the company.  ” ’   Despite representing the company, the contractor was never flown   to Uber headquarters for training or to go through the   ”Uberversity” like other employees.  ’ ”   But, perhaps recognizing the importance of such a role, Uber   eventually imposed more control in the region. After one year,   the company terminated the former driver’s contract and installed   its own   employee. ” ’   The freewheeling approach is ”good for expanding, but not good   for maintaining,” the former driver says. ’ ’   ”Having workers in that capacity where you can easily change them   around, end contracts, cut hours, it gives [Uber] a lot of   advantage in expanding, but I think that it’’s hard to maintain,”   he told Business Insider. ”If they don’’t hire these people on, I   don’’t know how well that works in long term without having the   kind of support,” he said.  ’ ’   While Uber has reached its size and scale through   experimentation, Justin Kintz, Uber’’s head of U. S. public   affairs, says the company worked to put up ”guard rails” over the   years to make sure actions are in the best interest of Uber’’s   drivers, riders, and cities. ’ ’   ”We go back to our company’’s principles: When in doubt, celebrate   the city. Do what’’s best for riders. Have we been perfect at it?   No. We’’ve made mistakes,” he said. ’ ”   Uber is taking steps to hone its marketing messages, while   keeping the employees between offices better connected so they   can share what they learn. Headquarters not only manages aspects   like pricing and the products it develops, but it’s also taken a   greater role in centralizing the message about what Uber stands   for. ” ’   In the last two years, Uber has undertaken a big brand revamp   about ”celebrating cities”. Its motto changed from ”Everyone’’s   personal driver” to ”Making transportation as reliable as running   water.”  ’ ’   Now, Simphal looks at headquarters as a network of experts he can   tap into when he needs the help instead of being entirely     and on his own in France. ’ ’   The shift in tone   and greater control over it   has coincided   with the hiring of David Plouffe, a former Obama campaign   manager, and former Google PR maven Rachel Whetstone, who joined   Uber in summer 2015.  ’ ’   ”Uber’’s grown to become a pretty massive company so there’’s a   need to have a healthy balance there with the   between   headquarters and city teams,” the former manager, Anderson, said   of the oversight. ”I think they’’ve done a really good job of   empowering city teams to make their own decisions and to stay in   control of their own destiny.” ’ ’  ’ ”   The empowerment comes with responsibility, and in June, two   French Uber executives, including Simphal, were convicted and   fined by a judge for illegal business activity after defying an   order to shut down its low cost UberPop service. Uber argued in   the case that the decision was made by headquarters, not by   France’s managers, even though the judge held them responsible   anyway. Simphal declined to say who will be paying the fine,   whether it will be his own money or an   payment, but   Simphal is willing to take responsibility for the company’s   actions in his market.  ” ’   Now that the stakes are so much higher, everyone is conscious of   the repercussions of a wrong move. ’ ”   Uber is still very city driven, but anything a team does must fit   within certain boundaries of the company’s vision and principles,   Simphal says. Experimentation outside of those limits is   possible, but it requires an extra bit of explanation and     to make sure it’s the right move.  ” ’  ’ ”In 2014, Uber’s office in Lyon, France. ..”