’  ’ ”   Dozens were killed after three suicide bombers blew themselves up   at Turkey’s largest airport, Istanbul Ataturk, at about 10 p. m.   local time on Tuesday. ” ”   At least 41 people have died, according to Istanbul’s governor,   Vasip Sahin.  ” ’   Air traffic has returned to normal at the airport. ’ ’  ’ ’   One attacker opened fire with an automatic rifle in the   departures area, Reuters reported. According to witnesses and   officials who spoke with the news wire service, the three   attackers detonated themselves on the arrivals level, one floor   below. They reportedly arrived at the airport by taxi. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”People were wounded, people fell down in front of me . .. They   were torn to pieces,” airport worker Hacer Peksen told The   Associated Press. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   It is still unconfirmed who is responsible for the attack, which   appeared to have been coordinated. T   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”. The Kurdistan Workers’   Party, or PKK, is waging an insurgency against the Turkish   government, but it primarily targets military and security   personnel in the country’s southeast. ” ’   The Ataturk attack ”fits the ISIS profile, not PKK,” a   counterterrorism official told CNN, adding that the PKK didn’’t   usually go after international targets. ’ ’   Ataturk is the   airport in Europe and the     airport in the world, with at least 61 million   travelers passing through in 2015. ’ ’   Many have noted that Turkey had assigned extra security to the   entrance of Ataturk after numerous   terrorist attacks   in Istanbul in the past several months. Travelers at the airport   have to go through security  ’ ’  ’ ’ ’ ’The moment of the attack at the Istanbul airport. Horrific. ’ ’ ’ ’Panic speads thru  after suicide bombers open fire & blow themselves up. (via  )  ’ ’   Lisa Monaco, the assistant to the US president for homeland   security and counterterrorism, briefed President Barack Obama on   the attack, according to a White House official. ’ ’   The White House released an official statement Tuesday evening   that likened the attacks to the ones at Brussels Airport in   March, calling the airport ”a symbol of international connections   and the ties that bind us together.” ’ ’   The statement continued, ”We remain steadfast in our support for   Turkey, our NATO ally and partner, along with all of our friends   and allies around the world as we continue to confront the threat   of terrorism.” ’ ’   The US State Department renewed its    travel   warning for Turkey on Monday, noting  that ”foreign and US tourists   have been explicitly targeted by international and indigenous   terrorist organizations.” ’ ”   The US consulate is working to determine whether US citizens are   among the airport attack’s victims, the  tweeted. ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tHuge numbers of passengers stranded outside Ataturk  ’ ’   Turkey is part of the   coalition against ISIS. The   terrorist group has claimed responsibility for multiple terrorist   attacks on Turkish soil since  . ’ ’   In January, 13 people were killed and 14 injured in a  in Istanbul. The   perpetrator was identified as Nabil Fadli, an ISIS follower from   Syria. ’ ’   Last July, ISIS claimed responsibility for a suicide bombing in   southeastern Turkey that killed 33 young activists. Three months   later, an   suicide bombing at a peace rally in Ankara   killed more than 100 people. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tSuicide attacks in Turkey in the past year  ’ ’   Michael Weiss, coauthor of ”,” said on Twitter that ISIS had a   ”lot of motives for attacking Ataturk airport, including the   imminent loss of Manbij [in Syria] Turkish shelling of ISIS, and   of course   rapprochement.” ’ ’   The Kurdistan Freedom Falcons, a breakaway faction of the PKK,   claimed responsibility for a suicide bombing in Ankara in   February that killed 29 people and another in March that killed   37. ’ ”   A car bomb claimed by Kurdish separatists ripped through a police   bus in central Istanbul on June 7 during the morning rush hour,   killing 11 people and wounding 36 near the main tourist district,   a major university, and the mayor’s office. ” ’ inside the airport. The video was   uploaded onto Twitter by the e ’ ’   Footage shows people running away, followed by a man who is then   shot by someone out of sight  —   reportedly part of Turkish   security forces. ’ ’   As he falls down after being shot, the man who was running is   then seen lying on the floor, struggling. Another person (who   seems to be the man who shot him) is seen standing next to him   before running away. ’ ’   A few seconds later, the man who is lying on the floor then blows   himself up. ’ ’  ’