”   Europe’s economy as a whole and individual European economies   have been sort of not good since the global financial crisis. ” ’   So we decided to take a deeper look at how Europeans feel about   this. ’ ”   Using data from the  for which fieldwork was   conducted in November, we put together a chart showing Europeans’   perceptions of the EU economy as a whole compared with those of   their own countries’ economies. ” ’   Respondents from major   economies, including   Germany, the UK, and the Netherlands, were more likely to say   their national economy was ”good.” By   comparison, respondents from   European countries   like Croatia, Romania, and Lithuania were less likely to say   their national economy was good. ’ ’   But things were a bit different for respondents’’ thoughts on the   European Union economy. Those in     economies were more likely to say the EU economy was ”good,”   while respondents from   countries generally gave   less positive assessments of the EU compared with their own   economies. ’ ’   This split is particularly interesting with respect to labor   markets. Several emerging European countries that have more   positive views of the EU overall also have insanely high   unemployment rates (). Young people in these countries   tend to leave to  (including   the UK). ’ ’’ ’   On the flip side, countries like    and the  which were less likely to give a more positive of   assessment of the EU compared with their own countries, have much   lower unemployment rates () and are often the dream destination   point for  from other nations. ’ ’  ’ ”   And some folks were happy with neither. Respondents from Greece,   France, Spain, Portugal, and Italy were not likely to give   positive reviews of their own economies or the EU economy as a   whole. (In terms of labor markets, it’s notable that all of these   countries have relatively high unemployment and .) ” ’   We arranged the countries in terms of percent of respondents   saying their own national economy was good minus the percent of   respondents saying the EU economy was good  —   from greatest to   least. Check out the full chart below. ’ ’  ’