’  ’ ”   Security checkpoints at airports could present their own safety   risks, and it’s difficult to prevent attacks on areas of airports   that are accessible to the public. ” ”   Nearly 50 people died in  on Tuesday after several   suicide bombers detonated explosives in and around the airport.   Istanbul Ataturk is Turkey’s biggest and the 11th busiest in the   world. ” ’   After a similar attack on the Brussels airport earlier this year,   experts  about how additional security   checkpoints at airports could be counterproductive and   ineffective. ’ ’   The Times noted that some airports have implemented additional   checks such as screening passengers and baggage at airport   entrances or checking vehicles as they arrive. But security lines   at airport entrances could just end up creating more targets   without succeeding at eliminating threats that might attack those   congregated at checkpoints. ’ ’   ”There are countries where people have to present their passport   and ticket at the airport entrance,” Norman Shanks, a former   manager of airport security at Heathrow Airport near London, told   The Times. ”That is designed to keep out   but it   won’’t keep out a bomber, because bombers can still buy tickets.” ’ ’   Turkey had assigned extra security to the entrance of Ataturk in   the wake of numerous terrorist attacks in Istanbul in the past   several months. The bombers apparently detonated the explosives   at the security   at the entrance. ’ ’   Baggage   areas, typically accessible to the public, could   also become targets. ’ ’  ’ ’   Philip Baum, managing director of Green Light, an     consulting firm in London, told The Times: ’ ”   It’s unclear so far who is responsible for the attack in   Istanbul. US counterterrorism officials suspect that the   terrorist group ISIS  —   aka the Islamic State, ISIL, or Daesh  —     carried out the attack, but so far it hasn’t claimed   responsibility. ” ”   The suspects apparently detonated the explosives at the security     at the entrance to the airport’s international   terminal as they exchanged gunfire with police, a Turkish   official told Reuters. ” ’   Turkish Justice Minister Bekir Bozdag said that at least one of   the attackers opened fire on the crowd using a Kalashnikov rifle   before detonating himself. ’ ’ Natasha Bertrand contributed to this report. ’