Above the simple gray churches along a dimly lit section of Detroit, the brooding eyes of Lil Wayne, who was covered in chains and holding a bottle of Hennessy, peered from a billboard in the rough neighborhood where India Wayman grew up. Her childhood had been fraught with traumatic experiences. Her father was violent and inconsistent, Ms. Wayman said, and she was bullied at school. A social worker visited her home when she was 12. “Take her, we don’t need her here anymore,” Ms. Wayman, now 34, recalled her father as saying when he discovered that she had made a child abuse report. As she considered her options that day, her    brother wandered into the room. She could not leave him. And so, the physical and emotional abuse continued at home and at school. Skipping classes to avoid bullies, she passed time at the library, the Detroit Institute of Arts and Wayne State University, where she sat in on college classes until she was kicked off the campus and told to return when she was 18. She loved to read. Her 10th grade English teacher introduced her to the poetry of Bob Kaufman. She desperately wanted to become the “jazz type chick” of his stanzas. Sitting on the bed, With a jazz type chick Round about Midnight She developed an interest in African history. She started several activist groups. She dropped out of high school in the 11th grade. Under Lil Wayne’s watchful gaze, Ms. Wayman recently recalled, she concluded that as a black woman in Detroit, she had three options to get out of the city. “I could become a rapper, a basketball player or go into the military,” she said. So after earning her high school equivalency degree and taking some college courses, she joined the Navy in May 2004. But she failed an early drug test, after testing positive for marijuana use, and was discharged several months later, military records show. She then worked a string of jobs in community service, and her ticket out of Detroit actually came from one of her interests from her teenage years: activism. In 2008, she was hired as a community organizer in Binghamton, N. Y. Ms. Wayman found fulfillment at work, but her unhealthy relationships led to stints in shelters throughout New York. “When you don’t have a proper relationship with your father, you start to look for it in other people,” she said. “I didn’t know how to love myself. ” Ms. Wayman fell into a series of abusive relationships, she said. She would leave, he would apologize, they would make up and she would return. She once walked all night to another town to get away from a boyfriend, before trekking back to work on foot, only to reunite with him. Ms. Wayman, then 28 and desperate to escape the cycle of abuse, said she took a knife to her wrists to end her life, the second attempt in 10 years. But the knife was too blunt, and the next morning she was admitted to a psychiatric hospital. She has since learned she has an anxiety disorder, depression and complex   stress disorder, brought on by her childhood experiences, she said. Soon after her hospitalization, Ms. Wayman found out she was pregnant. She considered abortion, but was not sure what to do until she felt a fluttering in her stomach. Then, five and a half months pregnant on Mother’s Day, she left her boyfriend for good. Sitting in a library at a computer, she sobbed as she composed an email to say goodbye to him. A woman next to her asked what was wrong. “He doesn’t love me,” Ms. Wayman said. The stranger gave her the name of a shelter in Syracuse. She left her boyfriend’s house with a bag of clothes and never returned. A few months later, she gave birth to her daughter, Naimah Ife. But the disruptive life at the shelter, Ms. Wayman said, was no way to raise a child. “There were so many sleepless nights,” she said. “The mental frustrations and the thoughts of: ‘How am I going to get out of here? What am I going to do? ’” During her time in shelters she worked at a call center. She said she hoped to use her experience to start a support group for other single mothers, as well as for mothers with   children. Her daughter received a diagnosis of severe   hyperactivity disorder and severe dyspraxia, a neurological disorder associated with A. D. H. D. Now snug in her Brooklyn apartment, which is partly subsidized by the supportive housing program Help USA, Ms. Wayman is discovering possibilities beyond the ones she imagined for herself in Detroit. Though she was laid off as a temporary data entry clerk in October, she is beginning a   culinary arts program this week. To help cover expenses, she receives unemployment, Supplemental Security Income payments for her daughter and food stamps. On a brisk September day, Naimah, now 5, came flying into the living room. Twirling in a black coat with a tuft of fur around the collar  —   part of a winter wardrobe provided by a $136. 95 stipend from Catholic Charities Brooklyn and Queens, one of the eight organizations supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund  —   she ran to her mother, her arms outstretched. Tall, sprightly and home from day care, she wanted to dance and talk and hold hands and draw a portrait of her mother all at once. Her mother placed much significance on her name: Naimah means “peaceful” in Arabic, and Ife is “love” in Swahili. “There’s power in a name,” Ms. Wayman said, holding her daughter close. “When you name children, you set a path for them. I want people to give her that. Now, for the rest of her life, she will have love and peace, even when I’m not there. ”