’  ’ ’   Andrea Vella,   of Asian investment banking at Goldman   Sachs, denied banging his shoe on a table after getting angry   with a former salesman. ’ ’   Vella was responding to   from Philip Edey QC, a   lawyer acting on behalf of the Libyan Investment Authority, which   claims the investment bank took advantage of its financial   illiteracy. ’ ’   The relationship between the LIA and Goldman Sachs broke down in   July 2008, after the LIA suffered losses on certain trades. ’ ”   Youssef Kabbaj, a Goldman sales executive embedded with the LIA,   was concerned he would be blamed by Vella, one of the partners on   Goldman’s team covering Libya, for losing the LIA as a client. ” ’   Kabbaj mentioned his concerns to other Goldman Sachs   employees, which, he alleged in a letter sent by lawyers at   Withers to the bank on his behalf in 2008, made Vella angry   enough to take off his shoe and bang it on a table in a meeting   with Kabbaj, a London court heard on Thursday. ’ ’’ ’   Vella said he didn’’t remember the incident. Edey   said: ”Mr Vella, that is an episode you would remember if   you did it.” ’ ’   ”So yes, then I didn’’t do it,” Vella replied.  ’ ’   Edey also referenced an August 2008 text message sent by Kabbaj   to Vella asking permission to return the call of an LIA official.   It read: ”Can I call him back wo taking the italian shoe risk?” ’ ’   The court also heard on Thursday how senior Goldman Sachs   managers encouraged Kabbaj to ”own” the Libyan   Investment Authority as a client. ’ ”   The LIA was set up in 2006 to invest Libya’s oil wealth   internationally. The organisation claims Goldman Sachs took   advantage of the low level of financial literacy of LIA staff and   suggested large and risky trades that led to heavy losses for it   and large margins for the bank. ” ’   Lawyers for Goldman Sachs, responding to the claims earlier, said   that the LIA was suffering from ”buyers’’ remorse,” and that   the bank wasn’’t responsible for the losses, which happened amid   the 2008 credit crunch and financial crisis. ’ ”   The Libyan Investment Authority is claiming it lost more than $1   billion (£750 million) on nine trades executed by Goldman Sachs   in 2008 on banks such as Citigroup and UniCredit, as well as the   French company EDF. The bank made more than $200 million in   profit on the trades according to the LIA’s lawyers. ” ’   Goldman Sachs has said it would defend against the claims   ”vigorously,” calling them ”without merit” when the case started. ’ ’   Vella said in a witness statement made available to journalists   that his impression of Mohamed Layas, the CEO of the LIA, was   that he was ”an experienced and capable financial professional”   and capable of understanding the trades carried out with Goldman   Sachs.  ’ ’   The trial is scheduled to last until August. ’