’  ’ ”   Warren Buffett and Berkshire Hathaway now own more than 10% of   America’s biggest bank. ” ”   The famed investor applied to the Federal Reserve on Friday to   increase his firm’s stake in Wells Fargo above 10% according to   a filing obtained by Business Insider. ” ’   Hitting the 10% level automatically requires a disclosure from   the investor in order to hold such a large stake. ’ ”   The filing indicates that Buffett’s stake first passed the   threshold on March 1 of this year. As of that point Berkshire   owned 10. 012% of the bank, which is America’s largest based on   market cap, triggering the review. ” ’   In the application, Berkshire said that it did not   buy new shares, but hit the threshold due to the buyback   program of Wells. ’ ’’ ’   ”Berkshire’’s purchases of Wells Fargo shares of common stock were   made for   investment purposes,” said the filing. ’ ’   ”Berkshire’’s acquisitions constituted less than 10% of the   outstanding shares prior to share repurchases that   were effected by Wells Fargo.” ’ ’   Going forward, the filing also indicated that Buffett has no   plans at the moment to buy more shares of the bank, but has his   eye on the stock nonetheless. ’ ’   ”Berkshire does not have any present intention to acquire   additional shares of common stock of Wells Fargo,” said the   filing. ”However, Berkshire routinely assesses market   conditions and may decide to purchase additional shares of   common stock of Wells Fargo based on its evaluation of the   investment opportunity presented by such purchases.” ’ ’   The filing states that Buffett and Berkshire have not purchased   shares of Wells since October 21, 2015. He currently holds   506, 308, 470 shares of the bank, according to the filing. ’ ’   Additionally, the filing said that Buffett and Berkshire have no   plans to alter the business strategy of Wells Fargo. ’ ’   Wells Fargo is among Buffett’’s largest investments, called the   ”Big Four” stocks, along with IBM,   and American   Express.  his investment in Wells is worth $23   billion as of the stock’’s closing price on Friday. ’