’  ’ ”   NEW YORK (Reuters)   New York City will deploy its first class of   police dogs trained to trace vapor trails left behind by     as part of   security   measures to protect the country’s largest city during the Fourth   of July weekend. ” ’   The   Vapor Wake Detection Dogs are capable of detecting     scents from explosives even after the carrier has left   the area, a skill that sets them apart from     canines.  ’ ”   The new canine patrols will join thousands of police officers,   including the city’s new   squad, in patrolling   crowds gathered for a massive fireworks display over the East   River and other Independence Day events. ” ’   The enhanced security comes at a time of heightened U. S.   vigilance against potential attacks on vulnerable targets,   including airports, concerts and clubs. ’ ”   The long holiday weekend follows an attack on a Dhaka, Bangladesh   cafe on Friday claimed by Islamic State and   suicideings at Istanbul’s main airport on   Tuesday blamed on the militant group. A gunman inspired by   Islamic State went on a shooting rampage in an Orlando gay   nightclub on June 12.  ” ’’ ”   An initial class of eight Labrador Retrievers, part of the NYPD’S   Critical Response Command (CRC) graduated from the training   program in March, two days after a series of   coordinatedattacks in Belgium.  ” ’   ”This time last year we were just creating the CRC   the   strategic response group   and beginning to acquire the vapor   wake dogs,” Police Commissioner Bill Bratton told reporters on   Friday. ”This year they are here, fully trained, fully equipped.” ’ ’   In preparation for the events on the Fourth of July, the NYPD   will deploy the dogs and their handlers in undisclosed locations   around the city. ’ ”   The dogs can sniff out specific scent particles produced by the   body’s natural heat that are left behind by an individual wearing   an explosive vest or carrying ain a   backpack, according to AMK9, the company that developed the   program. That skill can enable police to track down the source of   the vapors, hopefully in time to stop detonation.  ” ’   Hoksand Lau, an NYPD detective with the CRC, said the ability of   the dogs to detect vapor wakes should prove to be especially   valuable in areas such as Times Square that are packed with   pedestrians. ’ ’   ”I think the vapor wake will be very essential to the department,   where we will be able to fill in any type of security gap,” Lau   said during the March graduation ceremony.  ’ ’   (Editing by Frank McGurty and Andrew Hay) ’