’  ’ ’     On Monday, Hillary Clinton and Elizabeth Warren .   ’ ’     Their message was clear: Donald Trump is a “  bully     who is driven by greed and hate,” as Warren put it, and the     Democratic Party can deliver the policies and investments to     improve life for ordinary Americans.   ’ ’   But more interesting than their rhetoric was the event’s tone and   tenor. ’ ’   Warren was a compelling surrogate, giving Clinton the kind of   strong and affirmative endorsement she needs to win over   skeptical voters. ’ ’   And Clinton, in turn, was energized, touting her policies and   platform —  and indicting Trump for his attitudes and behavior. It   was a grand display of party unity: Warren and Clinton, the left   and the   united against a common foe and cheered on   by thousands of excited Democrats, all ready for the general   election. ’ ’   And where was Bernie Sanders? ’ ’   Two weeks ago, after the Democratic primary’s official end, the   Vermont senator gave a  that had   all the trappings of a concession but lacked the part where he   actually conceded. In it, he celebrated the size, scope, and   success of his insurgent bid, spoke a little about cooperation   with Clinton, and went on to affirm his efforts to reform the   Democratic Party. ’ ’   “I also look forward to working with Secretary Clinton to   transform the Democratic Party so that it becomes a party of   working people and young people, and not just wealthy campaign   contributors,” Sanders said. “[A] party that has the courage to   take on Wall Street, the pharmaceutical industry, the     industry, and the other powerful special interests that dominate   our political and economic life. ” ’ ’   Sanders wasn’t going to be the Democratic nominee, but he still   held a good amount of leverage in the form of his voters. After a   tough primary, they were hesitant to back Clinton, a fact   apparent in the polls. Clinton stood ahead of Donald Trump, but   not by much: Her lead was weakened by the party’s unbridged   divisions. By holding off on a concession and an endorsement, the   Vermont senator was keeping this leverage in reserve ahead of the   Democratic National Convention. It made sense. ’ ’  ’ ’  without  ’ ’   Which is what happened. In his nonconcession speech, Sanders told   supporters their “major political task” was to “make certain that   Donald Trump is defeated and defeated badly. ” It turns out that   was the message that landed. ’ ’   In  from   ABC News and the Washington Post, Clinton leads   Trump 51 percent to 39 percent, expanding her previous lead by 5   points, as Trump has seen a complete collapse in his support. And   what’s driving the move toward Clinton? Democrats and   independents who supported Bernie Sanders. ’ ’   In May, 20 percent of Sanders supporters said they would back   Trump over Clinton in the general election. In June, that number   is down to 8 percent. Overall, 81 percent of Sanders backers have   rallied to Clinton, surpassing the 74 percent of Clinton   supporters in 2008 who fell in behind Barack Obama. By any   measure, the Democratic Party is unified. ’ ’   Overall, 81 percent of Sanders backers have rallied to Clinton,   surpassing the 74 percent of Clinton supporters in 2008 who fell   in behind Barack Obama. ’ ’   Sanders’ endorsement isn’t irrelevant, but it now carries less   weight, and the leverage he held at the end of the primary just   isn’t there anymore. . ’ ’   The good news for Team Sanders is that its advocates —  like   Minnesota Rep. Keith Ellison —  have put Social Security expansion   and the $   minimum wage into the party document, as well   as a call for an “updated and modernized version of   ” the   law that prohibited   commercial banks from engaging in investment banking activities. ’ ’   At the same time, these are areas of wide Democratic agreement.   Most Democrats support Social Security expansion and a   substantially higher minimum wage, up to and including   $  . These aren’t concessions. On those   points that are more contentious, Team Sanders has lost out. ’ ’   The platform committee has rejected Sanders’ language on the   Israeli —  Palestinian conflict, his stance against the     Partnership, his call for a carbon tax, and his   total opposition to fracking. ’ ’ ’ ’   Maybe this was inevitable. Maybe Sanders was never going to have   the full stamp he clamored for simply on account of having lost.   But this underplays the initial strength of his hand. Had Sanders   endorsed Clinton at the end of the primaries and recalibrated as   an advocate for her campaign —  in short, had he mimicked Warren —  he   would have gotten ahead of his voters. ’ ’   This is important. With an early concession and endorsement,   Sanders does two things: He   any natural movement to   Clinton among Democratic primary voters, which lets him claim   credit for her improved numbers even if they were inevitable.   Like Warren, he would take a starring role in the campaign   against Trump. And as we saw in 2008 between Obama and Clinton, a   partnership can open the doors to lasting influence. ’ ’     As it stands, the Vermont senator has almost vanished from the     news cycle, overshadowed by Clinton’s growing lead, overall     Democratic unity, global events, and the   emissions     of Donald Trump.   ’ ’     He’ll still matter to the shape and direction of the Democratic     National Convention, but he could have had a larger, more     visible role. Bernie Sanders had his shot, and he threw it     away.   ’