’  ’ ”   President Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton are trying to reignite   Democratic Party enthusiasm by reminding voters of Obama’s   successful 2008 and 2012 elections. ” ’   While appearing together Tuesday at their first official joint   appearance since Obama endorsed her last month, the president   waxed nostalgia on his campaigns for president before noting his   support for Clinton. ’ ’   ”I know I’’ve gone on too long. This is what happens  —   you haven’’t   campaigned in a while, you start enjoying it too much,” Obama   said. ’ ’   He added several minutes later: ”I’’ve run my last campaign, and I   couldn’’t be prouder of the things we’’ve done together. But I’’m   ready to pass the baton. And I know that Hillary Clinton is ready   to run this race.” ’ ’   Throughout both their speeches, Clinton and Obama attempted to   use their disagreements following the 2008 Democratic primary as   an example of how Democrats can come together following a tough   primary between Clinton and Sen. Bernie Sanders, who has refused   to officially suspend his campaign. ’ ’’ ”   Borrowing Obama’s campaign slogan, Clinton reminded the audience   that while she lost to Obama in 2008, she quickly came to support   him. ” ’   ”He knows a little thing about winning elections. Take it from   me,” Clinton said introducing Obama. ’ ’   She added: ”When it was over, I was proud to endorse him and   campaign for him.” ’ ’   Calling Clinton the ”most qualified person” to ever seek the   presidency, Obama joked that she beat him in the presidential   primary debates. ’ ’   ”She beat me the first half, and then I could just barely play   her to a draw,” Obama said. ”She knew every fact, and she knew   every detail.” ’ ’   Obama attempted to play down the divisions between Democratic   primary supporters of Clinton and Sanders, arguing that the   differences with Republicans were far greater. ’ ’   ”Primaries are always tough because you’’re arguing with your   friends instead of the folks you disagree with,” Obama said. ’ ’   Both Clinton and Obama took swipes at presumptive Republican   presidential nominee Donald Trump. Clinton asked audience members   to ”imagine him sitting in the Oval Office” during a crisis,   while Obama said that Trump’’s background as a   star   didn’’t make him qualified to be president. ’ ’   ”This isn’’t a reality show. This is reality. And being president   of the United States means you have to deal with reality. When a   crisis hits, you can’’t just walk off the set. You can’’t fire the   scriptwriter. You can’’t be reckless. You don’’t have the luxury of   just saying what’’s in your head. You’’ve gotta actually do your   homework,” Obama said. ’ ’   The appearance in Charlotte, North Carolina, was far from   accidental. The Tar Heel State is a key battleground that helped   propel Obama to victory in 2008 but went for former Republican   presidential nominee Mitt Romney in 2012. ’ ’   Reprising a favorite campaign line from 2012, Obama quickly   pivoted from a rhetorical jab at Trump to a call to action. ’ ’   ”I was waiting for this opportunity. Don’’t boo. Vote,” Obama   said. ’