’  ’ ”   This past weekend, most Americans were celebrating the nation’s   birthday by eating hot dogs, watching fireworks, and not   expecting disappointing news about Tesla’s   vehicle   deliveries. ” ’   Well, all three happened. ’ ’   On Sunday afternoon,  that in the second quarter it delivered 14, 370   vehicles, below its projected 17, 000 deliveries, putting the   company . ’ ”   This wasn’t just any Sunday: It was the middle of a     break for US markets, which remained closed on Monday for the   July Fourth holiday. ” ”   In other words, Tesla’s vehicle deliveries were just about the   last thing anyone was thinking about.   deliveries   were, in fact, down from the 14, 820 cars delivered in   the first three months of the year. ” ”   And while an individual quarter that misses expectations is not   in and of itself a particularly big deal, Tesla’s current   struggles to produce and deliver as many vehicles as it expected   leaves the company woefully short of two impending milestones. ” ’   For one, the Elon   company has said it would deliver   80, 000 to 90, 000 cars this year. So in each of the next two   quarters, Tesla will need to produce about 25, 000 cars  —   a number   it has never hit in any one quarter  —   to meet its 2016 guidance. ’ ”   And perhaps the bigger issue is that the company’s     goal of hitting an annualized delivery rate of 500, 000 cars a   year (or 125, 000 per quarter) by the end of 2018 seems as far out   of reach as it ever has. ” ’   As my colleague  the company would fall   short of this goal even using very generous bogeys of   90, 000 vehicle deliveries in 2016  —   then doubling this figure   twice. ’ ”   But aside from any     projections about future Tesla   sales that seem ever likely not to materialize, the   company’s disclosure is a most poignant an example of how little   it thinks of disseminating clear and timely information to   shareholders. ” ”   Companies and governments have a long tradition of disclosing bad   news at times that are inconvenient to the press or when they   think it’ll be buried by something else. ” ”   Hillary Clinton’s emails have regularly been disclosed on Friday   nights. Jos. A. Bank, in an absolute classic of the genre, once   disclosed earnings would be down 20%    in  at 8:05 p. m. ET on a Friday night. In   this light, Tesla is doing nothing new. ” ”   But this isn’t the only recent move from Tesla that has been   anything but shareholder friendly. ” ’   A bit less than two weeks ago, the company proposed an     deal to acquire SolarCity, a struggling noncompetitor in a   different industry with which it shares a cofounder (Musk) and   . ’ ’   And  a capital raise was coming, Tesla recently   issued more than $2 billion of common stock, diluting existing   shareholders who were already owners of a company burning cash at   an  (about $2. 1 billion in the last   year). ’ ’   Take all these together, and Tesla has shown a particularly   paltry amount of respect for its shareholders, elevating     news dumps to an entirely new level by using a lazy   Sunday afternoon as the time for an ugly reveal. ’ ’  ’ ”   The entire Muskiverse  —   Tesla, SolarCity, and SpaceX  —   is by now    mostly backed by   Musk’s vast personal fortune. ” ”   And in addition to providing much of the financial juice for   these operations, Musk has taken up Steve Jobs’ mantle as the   leading creator of a  that gives him and his companies more leeway   with shareholders, customers, and fans than might otherwise be   warranted. ” ”   Certainly no one investing in Tesla should be expecting a stock   buyback or dividend program anytime soon, and at this point   investing in the company probably requires a   belief   that in 10 or 20 years Tesla’s technology will set industry   standards for   driverless vehicles. Also, those   types of vehicles probably need to be ubiquitous. ” ’   The  are clear on what information   shareholders are entitled to and when. But, like all rules, there   is gray area. Releasing a key financial metric in the middle of a   holiday weekend would fit this bill. ’ ’   There is a conversation to be had about what shareholders ought   to expect of management teams  —   certainly no one investing in   Tesla should expect to see similar corporate governance practices   to those in place at Procter & Gamble, for example  —   but if   we again acknowledge the Elon Musk Reality Distortion Field is   real and potent, then complaints and what gets disclosed and when   are very much beside the point. ’ ’   Elon Musk and his companies do what they want  —   and when. ’