’  ’ ’   WASHINGTON (AP)  —   Key assertions by Hillary Clinton in defense of   her email practices have collapsed under FBI scrutiny. ’ ”   The agency’s yearlong investigation found that she did not, as   she claimed, turn over all her   messages for release.   It found that her private email server did carry classified   emails, also contrary to her past statements. And it made clear   that Clinton used many devices to send and receive email despite   her statements that she set up her email system so that she only   needed to carry one. ” ”   FBI Director James Comey’s announcement Tuesday that he will not   refer criminal charges to the Justice Department against Clinton   spared her from prosecution and a devastating political   predicament. But it left much of her account in tatters and may   have aggravated questions of trust swirling around her Democratic   presidential candidacy. ” ”   A look at Clinton’s claims since questions about her email   practices as secretary of state surfaced and how they compare   with facts established in the FBI probe: ” ’CLINTON: ”I did not email any classified   material to anyone on my email. There is no classified material.”   News conference, March 2015. ’ ”THE FACTS: Actually, the FBI identified at least   113 emails that passed through Clinton’s server and contained   materials that were classified at the time they were sent,   including some that were Top Secret and referred to a highly   classified special access program, Comey said. ” ’   Most of those emails  —   110 of them  —   were included among 30, 000   emails that Clinton returned to the State Department around the   time her use of a private email server was discovered. The three   others were recovered from a forensic analysis of Clinton’’s   server. ”Any reasonable person in Secretary Clinton’’s position or   in the position of those with whom she was corresponding about   the matters should have known that an unclassified system was no   place for that conversation,” Comey said. Clinton and her aides   ”were extremely careless in their handling of very sensitive,   highly classified information,” he said. ’ ’  ’ ’CLINTON: ”I never received nor sent any material   that was marked classified.” NBC interview, July 2016. ’ ’THE FACTS: Clinton has separately clung to her   rationale that there were no classification markings on her   emails that would have warned her and others not to transmit the   sensitive material. But the private system did, in fact, handle   emails that bore markings indicating they contained classified   information, Comey said. ’ ’   He said the marked emails were ”a very small number.” But that’’s   not the only standard for judging how officials handle sensitive   material, he added. ”Even if information is not marked classified   in an email, participants who know, or should know, that the   subject matter is classified are still obligated to protect it.” ’ ’CLINTON: ”I responded right away and provided   all my emails that could possibly be work related” to the State   Department. News conference, March 2015. ’ ’THE FACTS: Not so, the FBI found. ’ ’   Comey said that when his forensic team examined Clinton’’s server   it found there were ”several thousand   emails that   were not in the group of 30, 000” that had been returned by   Clinton to the State Department. ’ ’  ’ ’CLINTON: ”I thought it would be easier to carry   just one device for my work and for personal emails instead of   two.” News conference, March 2015. ’ ’THE FACTS: This reasoning for using private   email both for public business and private correspondence didn’’t   hold up in the investigation. Clinton ”used numerous mobile   devices to view and send email” using her personal account, Comey   said. He also said Clinton had used different servers. ’ ’CLINTON: ”It was on property guarded by the   Secret Service, and there were no security breaches. . .. The use   of that server, which started with my husband, certainly proved   to be effective and secure.” News conference, March 2015. ’ ’CLINTON campaign website: ”There is no evidence   there was ever a breach.” ’ ’THE FACTS: The campaign website claimed ”no   evidence” of a breach, a less categorical statement than Clinton   herself made last year, when she said there was no breach. The   FBI did not uncover a breach but made clear that that possibility   cannot be ruled out. ’ ’   ”We assess it is possible that hostile actors gained access to   Secretary Clinton’’s personal email account,” Comey said. ’ ’   He said evidence would be hard to find because hackers are   sophisticated and can cover their tracks. Comey said his   investigators learned that Clinton’’s security lapses included   using ”her personal email extensively while outside the United   States, including sending and receiving   emails in   the territory of sophisticated adversaries.” Comey also noted   that hackers breached the email accounts of several outsiders who   messaged with Clinton. ’ ’   Comey did not mention names, but a Romanian hacker who called   himself Guccifer accessed and later leaked emails from Sidney   Blumenthal, an outside adviser to Clinton who regularly   communicated with her. ’ ’  ’ ’CLINTON: ”I opted for convenience to use my   personal email account, which was allowed by the State   Department.” News conference, March 2015. ’ ”THE FACTS: Comey did not address Clinton’s   reason for using a private server instead of a government one,   but he highlighted the perils in routing sensitive information   through a home server. ” ’   The FBI found that Clinton’’s personal server was ”not even   supported by   security staff like those found at   agencies and departments of the United States government or even   with a commercial email service like Gmail,” the director said. ’ ’   A May 2016 audit by the State Department inspector general found   there was no evidence Clinton sought or received approval to   operate a private server, and that she ”had an obligation to   discuss using her personal email account to conduct official   business with their offices.” Courts have frowned on such a   practice. ’ ’   In an unrelated case, the U. S. Court of Appeals for the District   of Columbia Circuit ruled Tuesday that the purpose of public   records law is ”hardly served” when a department head ”can   deprive the citizens of their right to know what his department   is up to” by maintaining emails on a private system. ’ ’   ___ ’ ’ Associated Press writer Calvin Woodward contributed to this   report. ’