’  ’ ’   In a stunning move, Dwyane Wade is leaving the Miami Heat to sign   with the Chicago Bulls, . ’ ’   Wade will reportedly sign a   deal worth $47 million   with the Bulls, . The Bulls   have also agreed to trade Mike Dunleavy to the Cleveland   Cavaliers to create enough salary cap space, . ’ ’   Since NBA free agency began July 1, the  leaving Wade to listen to offers from other teams. ’ ”   Wade was reportedly slighted by the Heat’s offseason priorities   as they focused on   Hassan Whiteside and chasing Kevin   Durant. Additionally, Wade wanted a salary worth $50 million over   two years. The Heat were reportedly offering Wade $40 million   over two years. ” ”   On Wednesday, Wade met with other teams, including the Milwaukee   Bucks and Heat, but not the Chicago Bulls as they couldn’t make   it to New York due to travel complications, according to   Wojnarowski. During Wade’s meeting with Miami Heat owner   Mickey Arrison, the Heat reportedly refused to offer a third year   to Wade’s deal. Though the Bulls’ offer was similar, Wade   ultimately decided to take Chicago’s offer after losing trust in   the Heat. ” ’’ ”   Wade grew up in a suburb of Chicago and will join a Bulls team in   transition. The Bulls let go of Joakim Noah and Pau Gasol in free   agency this offseason and traded Derrick Rose to the Knicks for   Robin Lopez, Jose Calderon, and Jerian Grant. On July 3, the   Bulls signed point guard Rajon Rondo to a   contract,   pairing him in the   with star guard Jimmy Butler. With   Wade’s arrival, Butler will likely have to move up to small   forward. ” ”   It’s a shocking development that few could have predicted. Wade   and the Heat had contentious contract talks last summer, but   ultimately agreed on a   deal before talks ever hit a   boiling point as they did this summer. Many felt the same would   happen this summer, and that Wade listening to outside offers was   a ploy to force the Heat’s hand. ” ”   In what’s been a wild NBA offseason, Wade appears to be another   big name that will be in a new uniform this fall. ”