’  ’ ’   Texas state officials confirmed that the man accused of shooting   and killing police officers in Dallas acted alone. ’ ’   The suspect in the shooting Thursday night that left five   police officers dead and seven others wounded has been identified   as    Dallas resident Micah Xavier Johnson, Dallas   Mayor Mike Rawlings announced during a press conference Friday   afternoon. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Military experts  one of the attackers appeared   ”tactically professional” and ”focused” in videos taken of the   ambush. ’ ’   A Texas   official  that Johnson claimed to be a US Army   veteran during his standoff with the police. The Army  Johnson had served as an   enlisted soldier and served a tour of duty in Afghanistan. It   said  ’ ’   Photos of Johnson, apparently taken from his    were being shared on social media Friday morning: ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tNEW: Photo shows  shooting suspect ID’d as    Micah Xavier Johnson   ” ’ ’ ’   Dallas Police Chief David O. Brown initially said Friday that two   snipers staged the attack from ”elevated positions” near what had   been peaceful protests over recent police killings of black men   and that the department thought the attackers coordinated the   ambush. Johnson’’s specific role in the attack was unclear. ’ ’   By Friday morning the police had killed one suspect, who was   later identified as Johnson, using a   bomb after   negotiations in a standoff in a Dallas parking garage. Brown said   the suspect said he was ”upset about Black Lives Matter” and that   he ”wanted to kill white people.” ’ ’   ”We cornered one suspect and we tried to negotiate for several   hours,” Brown said in a press conference on Friday. ’ ’   ”Negotiations broke down and we had an exchange of gunfire with   the suspect,” he said. ”We saw no other option but to use our   bomb robot and place a device on it for it to detonate where the   suspect was. Other options would have exposed our officers to   grave danger. The suspect is deceased, as a result of the   detonating of the bomb.” ’ ’   Mayor Rawlings confirmed on Friday that the device contained the   explosive,  . ’ ’   Brown added: ”The suspect said he was upset about Black Lives   Matter. He said he was upset about the recent police shootings.   The suspect said he was upset at white people. The suspect stated   he wanted to kill white people, especially white officers.” Brown   corrected earlier reports that said the suspect had killed   himself. ’ ’  ’ ’posted an angry rant against white people on   Facebook last Saturday, July 2, Reuters reported. ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’    ’ ’   Brown said previously that Johnson had said ”the end is coming”   as he exchanged gunfire with the police and also said he would   ”hurt and kill” more police officers. Brown said the man also   claimed to have placed bombs inside the El Centro College garage   where the shootout took place. No bombs have been found, however. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   The incident was part of the deadliest day for police officers   since September 11, 2001, . ’