’  ’ ”   Facebook has  for how it treats controversial live   videos on its service, after a week in which the social network’s   livestreaming tool was used to broadcast videos of multiple     shootings. ” ’   Facebook’’s main edict: When deciding what content to remove,   ” ’ ’   On Wednesday night,  ’ ’  ’ ’   ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   To decide which videos should remain on the site and which should   be removed, the company has a team of content   reviewers working 24 hours a day, every day. Any Facebook   user can report a video for objectionable content, and if it gets   reported by even one person, a moderator will review the video.   If a Live video seems to be going viral, a moderator will look at   it regardless of whether or not it has been reported.  ’ ’   Facebook has moderators from around the world, representing more   than three dozen languages.  ’ ’   Here are the options that a person can report a video for: ’ ’  ’ ’   In the case of violence in particular, Facebook   decides whether to remove a post depending on   whether it seems to celebrate or glorify violence or   whether it condemns it or bears witness to it to spread   awareness.  ’ ”   In the latter case, it will allow the video to continue to   stream, but will add a warning to it and the video won’t     or be visible to users who are under 18.  ” ’  ’ ’   Facebook says that Live videos do not need to be removed before   they can be reposted with this warning.  ’ ”   Here’s how Facebook describes its guidelines for violent or   graphic images.  ” ’   ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Here’s the full statement from Facebook: ” ’       ”Live video allows us to see what’s happening in the world as       it happens. Just as it gives us a window into the best       moments in people’s lives, it can also let us bear witness to       the worst. Live video can be a powerful tool in a crisis  —   to       document events or ask for help.     ’ ’       We understand the unique challenges of live video. We know       it’s important to have a responsible approach. That’s why we       make it easy for people to report live videos to us as       they’re happening. We have a team   24 hours a day,       seven days a week, dedicated to responding to these reports       immediately.     ’ ’       The rules for live video are the same for all the rest of our       content. A reviewer can interrupt a live stream if there is a       violation of our . Anyone can report content to us if they think       it goes against our standards, and it only takes one report       for something to be reviewed.     ’ ’       One of the most sensitive situations involves people sharing       violent or graphic images of events taking place in the real       world. In those situations, context and degree are       everything. For instance, if a person witnessed a shooting,       and used Facebook Live to raise awareness or find the       shooter, we would allow it. However, if someone shared the       same video to mock the victim or celebrate the shooting, we       would remove the video.     ’ ’       Live video on Facebook is a new and growing format. We’ve       learned a lot over the past few months, and will continue to       make improvements to this experience wherever we can.”     ’