’  ’ ’   Republicans are normally hesitant to acknowledge how race can   play a role in how an individual experiences life in America. ’ ’   But after two black men were fatally shot by police this week,   and after a   ambush attack  some in the GOP   took a markedly different approach when discussing race   relations.  ’ ’   Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, who is on Donald Trump’s   short list for vice president, said Friday that white Americans   ”instinctively underestimate the level of discrimination and the   level of additional risk” black people face in the US. ’ ’   ”If you are a normal white American, the truth is you don’t   understand being black in America,” he said. ’ ’   Florida Sen. Marco Rubio, a top Republican who ran an   unsuccessful bid for the White House, issued a similar statement. ’ ’   “Those of us who are not   will never fully   understand the experience of being black in America,” he said. ’ ’   Rubio, referring to the shooting death of Philando Castile,   added: “But we should all understand why our fellow Americans in   the black community are angry at the images of an African   American man, with no criminal record, who was pulled over for a   busted tail light, slumped in his car seat and dying while his   four year old daughter watches from the back seat. ” ’ ’   “All of us should be troubled by these images. And all of us need   to acknowledge that this is about more than just one or two   recent incidents,” he continued.  ’ ’   Even House Speaker Paul Ryan, the   elected   Republican, praised Black Lives Matter demonstrators in his   Friday speech reacting to the Dallas attack. ’ ’   The ”values that brought these protesters to the streets,” the   speaker said, were those of ”respect, decency, compassion,   humanity.” ’ ’   Ryan added that both Republicans and Democrats hunger for “a   world in which people feel safe regardless of the color of their   skin. ” ’ ’   “And that’s not how people are feeling these days,” he concluded. ’ ’  ’ ’   In conversations with Business Insider, two GOP strategists said   such comments indicate the party is “headed in the right   direction. ” ’ ’   “I think many leaders in our party have wanted to be more   sensitive to racial issues,” said Matt Mackowiak, founder and   president of the Potomac Strategy Group. “I think you’re going to   see more and more of that. ” ’ ’   Mackowiak told Business Insider that there is a “new generation   of leaders in the party” who are more eager to speak on   issues regarding race. ’ ’   “Part of this is generational,” he said. “There certainly was   racism 30 or 40 years ago. There was less sort of outrage over   it, broadly speaking. And now, these incidents are just so   shocking. When you add video  —   it’s one thing to read a news   story. It’s another thing to see a video and it’s another thing   to see video in  . ” ’ ’   Evan Siegfried, author of the upcoming book “,” agreed and   said he welcomed the shift in tone. ’ ’   ”Rubio has been saying this for a while, but it is good that   others are recognizing that this is an issue that we must address   together,” Siegfried told Business Insider. ’ ’   He added: “These acknowledgments will enable us to have more   meaningful conversations about race and equality with communities   that have seen Republicans as out of touch with them. Senator   Rubio, Gingrich and other Republicans know that this is something   we must confront together.” ’ ’   Republicans even received some praise from the Black Lives Matter   movement. ’ ’   Prominent movement leader DeRay McKesson told Business Insider   the remarks from Gingrich and Rubio were a step in the right   direction. ’ ”   “Rubio and Gingrich’s statements highlight the beginning of an   understanding of the need to understand the perspectives of black   people, especially in their roles as public servants,”   McKesson said. ” ’   “If this newfound understanding does not translate into action,   especially with regard to their policies and practices, then it   is simply useless rhetoric. ” ’