’  ’ ’   On Wednesday, police in Falcon Heights, Minnesota,  a man named Philando Castile during a traffic   stop. His girlfriend, Diamond Reynolds, was riding in the car at   the time. ’ ’   She opened the Facebook app on her phone and  of the shooting using the new   Facebook Live feature. (Warning: content is   graphic.) Anybody who tuned in was able to watch   the graphic image of Castile bleeding.  ’ ’   The next day, protests against police violence erupted around the   country. ’ ’   During one of those protests, in Dallas, a gunman shot a   dozen police officers. So far, . ’ ’   This time, a Facebook user named .   (Warning: content is graphic.) ’ ’   As of Friday afternoon, each video had been watched more   than 5. 4 million times. ’ ’   By way of comparison, the most popular nightly news broadcast   last week, ABC World News Tonight on June 27, reached 8. 5 million   viewers.  ’ ”   When Facebook introduced Live  it wasn’t quite clear what people would use it for.   Among other things,  adding rubber bands to a   watermelon exploding, and more than 3 million people watched it   live. It’s now had more than 10 million people watch it.  ” ”   Now it’s clear what Facebook Live is for. ” ”   It’s replacing the last stronghold of television: live   events. ” ’   TV is under assault by   where people watch their   favorite shows online and dispense with a cable subscription   altogether. ’ ’   Last September, TV ratings started to see a  and Nielsen ratings show a  in the amount of TV watched by nearly   all demographic groups over the last five years. ’ ’   A recent Nielsen poll of more than 30, 000 people around the world   also    that 20% to 25% of viewers under the age of 49 plan to cut the   cord in coming years. ’ ’  ’ ’   Sure, people might stop watching the latest network drama in   favor of a Netflix or Amazon exclusive, but nothing would ever   replace TV for live sports and breaking news. ’ ”   But over the last year, we’ve started to see the first hints   that live sports won’t be a TV exclusive forever. Twitter      NFL games next season, and   Facebook was . ” ”   Live sports is better on TV than when shot by somebody on their   smartphone. There’s too much value in the expert camera work, the   instant replays, and even (sometimes) the commentary. So any tech   company that wants to replace the networks is going to have to   win a bidding war. ” ”   The same isn’t true for live news. Sometimes, a good news   broadcast can help viewers make sense of what they’re seeing. But   the decisions about what to broadcast and how to show it are   influenced by a lot of people along the way, from reporters to   producers. That leaves TV news open to accusations of bias and   poor news judgment. ” ”   Plus, a lot of TV news is boring. A lot of time the broadcasters   seem to be struggling to fill the airtime, endlessly replaying   the same video clips over and over again, talking to fill space.   It’s not particularly interesting or immediate. It feels   instantly out of date. ” ’   Compare that with millions of people with smartphones, filming   and broadcasting big events as they happen.  ’ ’   Twitter is definitely in the   game with   Periscope, and both are following Snapchat Stories. ’ ’   But Facebook has the audience. Nobody has to download the   Facebook app and figure out how to use it  —   over a billion people   already have it.  ’ ”   When a big event happens, anybody on Facebook can tune in to   see exactly what’s going on, unfiltered, directly from a   bystander’s point of view. Why run to the nearest TV? ”