’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Those were the three words that blared across the Drudge Report   early Friday morning after five Dallas police officers were   killed in a horrific ambush attack. ’ ’   And immediately upon seeing the   headline,   conservatives rebelled against a once reliable ally who has   become more and more divisive to them over the course of the 2016   campaign. ’ ’   “In moments like these, we should do the opposite of what Drudge   is doing,” Commentary Magazine Editor Noah Rothman . ’ ’   “Responsible reporting as always,”  Jeff Blehar, from the   popular Ace of Spades blog. ’ ’   Others piled on. ’ ’   Allahpundit, an influential anonymous conservative   blogger, skewered the site for a subsequent banner headline   claiming a “black power group” had claimed responsibility for the   attack. ’ ’   “Dallas chief says suspect told them before he died that he   wasn’t part of a group,” the . ’ ’   And David French, the National Review writer  went as far as to say that he had deleted the Drudge   Report app from his phone. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tI just deleted my Drudge app. ’t’t’ ’   The   sentiment had been simmering for months. But it   seemed to finally come to a boil with the Drudge Report’s   coverage of the Dallas attack. ’ ’   Since its inception in 1996, the Drudge Report has been a home to   conservatives who feel disenfranchised by traditional media.   Drudge has marketed his website as a news destination not   controlled by corporate interests or politicians. ’ ”   But that’s a narrative that was heavily challenged during the   2016 Republican Primary, when it became clear the news   aggregator was pushing a   agenda. ” ’   Many conservatives who frequent the   link aggregator   had grown upset over how founder Matt Drudge had covered the 2016   election. The Drudge Report, they say, trashed     conservatives like Ted Cruz in favor of promoting a squishy   moderate in Donald Trump. ’ ’   “I don’t know what the hell happened to Matt Drudge,” Glenn Beck,   the prominent conservative   host and founder of The   Blaze, said in March. ’ ’   The Drudge Report, operating from the same playbook as Trump, has   used the racial tension in the country to generate page views,   its critics say. And the website’s controversial     headline in the aftermath of the Dallas attack was the final   straw. ’ ”   “Matt Drudge, for whom my late friend Andrew Breitbart used to   work closely and for whom I used to fill in on his old national   radio show, is not a conservative,” conservative   host   John Ziegler told Business Insider. “He is a brilliant   businessman who doesn’t care at all about the conservative   cause. ” ” ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tDear fellow conservatives! Let’s extinguish the flames of hate  & his likes are spreading!   ” ’   The operator of   organization Stop Trump PAC, a   Republican operative who asked not to be named to preserve his   anonymity, told Business Insider he agreed with Ziegler’s   analysis. ’ ’   “It has nothing to do with conservatism. It has to do with   ratings,” he said. ’ ’   He added: “When it comes to Drudge, he has chosen to go down a   path of racism. Embracing racism, inciting hate  —   all to gain   followers. He doesn’t care about conservative principles or   ideas. It’s all about ratings. It’s a ratings game. ” ’ ’   And Steve Deace, a popular Iowa radio host, slammed the Drudge   Report as a “fraud. ” ’ ’   “Drudge isn’’t a conservative. He’’s a sensationalist. And right   now, the sensation is white grievance   so he’’s   parked there,” Deace told Business Insider. “Drudge, like   too many other people in our industry, is a master at   capitalizing on being conservative media without actually   demonstrating a shred of conservatism.” ’ ’   Yet, despite a growing group of critics, Drudge still has fierce   backers. ’ ’   When asked to respond to the onslaught of attacks on   her friend, Ann Coulter, the   conservative   author, replied in a   manner: “SAD!” ’ ’   Matthew Boyle, Washington editor for Breitbart News, a website   often linked to by Drudge, told Business Insider that the   criticism stemmed from a ”handful of losers.” ’ ’   ”Clearly, a handful of losers like David French have a problem   with truth and accuracy,” he said. ”The reason they don’’t like   Drudge is because Drudge gets it right.” ’ ’   Boyle added: “He got it right in the Republican primaries, and he   has it right in Dallas. Maybe David French’’s time would be better   spent floating an irrelevant potential presidential campaign   again, while Drudge tells America what’’s really going on.” ’ ’   Others told Business Insider that the latest controversy   surrounding Drudge was nothing unexpected. ’ ’   “I think Drudge is just being Drudge,” radio host Erick Erickson   said. “I think Drudge sensationalizes things, but he also knows   what his readers want. I’m not one to call for a boycott of   anyone, but I personally find I go to the site less and less this   political season. ” ’ ’   Overall, the divide over the Drudge Report appears to reflect the   current rift in the Republican Party caused by the bombastic   Trump.  ’ ’   The website’’s loudest supporters are largely backers of Trump,   and the Manhattan billionaire has repeatedly lavished praise on   it throughout the 2016 cycle. On the other side of the spectrum,   members of the ”Never Trump” movement have been the most   critical, accusing Drudge of being a sellout. ’ ’   Drudge, for his part, has appeared to bask in the limelight,   seemingly enjoying the attention from both fans and   critics. He did not respond to an emailed request for   comment, but took to Twitter earlier this month to pen a short   note to the ”lovers and haters.” ’ ’   The   mogul wrote: “Thank you for your continued   readership! The lovers and the haters. Such extraordinary times.   Thrilling, actually. ” ’