’  ’ ’   Venezuela  —   wracked by   —   has also been beset by   economic distortions that have earned it the dubious title of   ”” and   that have made    life an ordeal. ’ ’   That ordeal has led to widespread protests  —   even some that cross   international borders. ’ ”   In the country’s western region  —   parts of which are strongholds   for the political opposition  —   protestors have in recent days    with Colombia in search of goods unavailable at home. ” ’   In response, the Venezuelan government ordered the border to be    for 12 hours on Sunday, allowing   Venezuelans to cross into Colombia to purchase food and other   products that are hard to find in Venezuela. ’ ’   President Nicolas Maduro ”ordered that he didn’’t want anyone   hurt, anyone killed . .. and if these women decided to go again on   Sunday, they meet, go to Colombia, buy there, and return,”   Tachira state Governor Jose Vielma Mora  in an interview. ’ ’   Early Sunday morning, what appeared to be hundreds of Venezuelans   calmly surged past border guards on their way to Cúcuta, in   eastern Colombia. ’ ’ ’ ’Así es la llegada de venezolanos a Cúcuta buscando abastecerse. los acompaña en los pasos fronterizos. ’ ”   The order from Maduro came after hundreds of women, clad in white   and traveling together, approached the Francisco de Paula   Santander bridge that connects Ureña in Venezuela’s  with the Colombian town   of Cúcuta on Tuesday,  of police and national   guard. ” ”   Hundreds of the women were reportedly able to make it past the   police barriers, making their way to Cúcuta’s  to  like toilet paper, cooking   oil, and corn flour. ” ’  ’ ’   ”We decided to cross the border because we don’’t have food in our   homes and our children are going hungry. There is much need,” a   woman  local newspaper La Opinión. ”We found   everything and the cordiality of the Colombian people was very   good,” she added. ’ ”   On Sunday, while Venezuelans streamed into Colombia in search of     products, Colombians made their way into Venezuela to   buy heavily subsidized gasoline, which is even more of a bargain   because of the Colombian pesos’ weakness against the Venezuelan   bolivar. (Gasoline is also one of the most heavily smuggled goods   along the   border.) ” ’ ’ ’  venezolanos cruzan frontera por alimentos  y medicinas y los colombianos quieren venir por gasolina barata  ’ ’   ”#Border venezuelans cross the border for food and medicines and   colombians want to come for cheap gasoline,” the tweet above   reads. ’ ’   According to this tweet from a journalist on the ground in   western Venezuela, lines quickly formed to exchange bolivars to   pesos for shopping in Colombia: ’ ’ ’ ’  la cola de personas que buscan cambiar bolívares por pesos Foto: Twitter __   ’ ’   ”#Border the line of people who are looking to exchange bolivars   for pesos,” the tweet above reads. ’ ”   The women who crossed the border  did so in defiance of the  of Venezuela’s   roughly   border with Colombia, put in place by   President Nicolás Maduro. ” ’   Shutting the border was  smugglers who illegally   exported goods to Colombia to resell at much higher prices and   was followed by the mass  living in the   border area. ’ ’  ’ ’   In recent days, however, numerous officials on both sides of the   border have spoken of lifting the border closure in the coming   weeks. ’ ’   Colombian Foreign Minister Maria Angela Holguin  on Saturday that the border could reopen   in at least three weeks. ”We want it to be a border [that’’s]   safe, legal, [and] not a  ’’” Holguin  at a press conference in Bogotá. ’ ’   Vielma Mora, the Tachira state governor, also  in his interview that Venezuela was   working to bring about conditions under which the border area   would be reopened. ’ ”   In Venezuela’s capital, Caracas,    economic misery   is also common, especially for women. ” ’   ”The situation has us housewives juggling to make ends meet,” an     grandmother named Xiomara . ”And it’’s affecting all of us, but   especially we women who have to feed our children.” ’ ’  ’ ’   With the global   slump, which has made less money   available for imports, and price controls in Venezuela, shortages   have become rampant. ’ ’   Some products now have exorbitant prices while others are nearly   impossible to find. Falling production and imports have  which reached  in May. ’ ’   ”There simply are not enough goods to go around,” Tulane   professor David Smilde, who lives in Caracas,  on July 5. ’ ’     and    exist for Venezuelans looking   for food, but the vast majority struggle to find things to eat,   and they get by on . ’ ’   ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’