’  ’ ’   Organizers of the upcoming Republican National Convention are $6   million short of their fundraising goal with just five days   before the event kicks off  —   and Donald Trump may be to blame. ’ ’   The host committee hopes to raise $64 million before the     event in Cleveland, but so far it has collected about $51 million   in cash and $7 million through   donations, . ’ ’   Several   companies including JPMorgan, UPS, and Ford   have said they will not sponsor the convention, despite each   donating  to the GOP event in 2012. ’ ’   Wells Fargo is skipping the event after giving $500, 000 . Some of those companies have said they would not   contribute to the Democratic National Convention either. ’ ’   The corporations have not explicitly blamed Trump for their   decision to sit out the convention, but the presumptive nominee’’s   provocative campaign has had ”some effect” on fundraising, host   committee president and CEO David Gilbert said. ’ ’   ”It’s really hard to put a dollar amount on what the effect of   the nominee is. People don’t give us a detailed explanation of   why I’m giving or why I am not,” Gilbert told USA Today. ’ ”   But Trump’s effect on fundraising is impossible to ignore.   According to Cleveland. com, of the roughly $58 million in   donations the committee has already raised,  has come since early April, when Trump racked   up finally victories in the Republican primary. And only $1   million has been raised since early May, when he became the   party’s presumptive nominee. ” ”   Some major donors that are still participating in the convention   have slashed their contributions dramatically.   dropped   its funding 88% from $660, 000 in 2012 to $70, 000 in 2016,   according to Cleveland. com. And Walmart’s funding has decreased   90% from $150, 000 to just $15, 000. ” ’  ’ ’   A total of 15 companies have scaled back their 2012 funding to   some degree, according to officials from the Color of Change PAC,   an   organization that is  to skip the convention. ’ ’   The host committee is ”aggressively” seeking   donors,   USA Today reported. But it may be tough to overcome friction   within the party that Trump’’s divisive comments have caused. ’ ’   ”If everyone is not behind one candidate, it’’s extremely   difficult for you to raise the kind of money you need to,” former   convention planner Frankie Wyatt told Cleveland. com. ”I’’ve just   never seen it like this before.” ’ ’   The Democratic National Convention, which starts July 25 in   Philadelphia, is about $1. 3 million short of its fundraising   goal, said host committee chairman and former Pennsylvania Gov.   Ed Rendell, according to USA Today. ’