’  ’ ’   Republican Donald Trump on Wednesday entered the final phase of   his   search for a running mate, arranging     meetings with his finalists and family members as his staff   prepares for a Friday announcement. ’ ’   Trump, his adult children, and key staffers huddled with one of   the prospects. ’ ”   He began the day with breakfast at the residence of one, Gov.   Mike Pence of Indiana, on Wednesday morning, a day after the two   campaigned together in the state. They were joined by Trump’s   three adult children, along with his    and his campaign   chair Paul Manafort, who were seen leaving the residence. ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tI will be making the announcement of my Vice Presidential pick on Friday at 11am in Manhattan. Details to follow. ’t’t’ ”   Hours later, Newt Gingrich, another finalist, was seen with   Trump’s entourage at a downtown Indianapolis hotel. Sen. Jeff   Sessions of Alabama, who has been advising Trump, was spotted   arriving at the same hotel not long after Gingrich left. ” ”   Trump’s family, including Ivanka Trump and her husband, Jared   Kushner, also met privately with Gov. Chris Christie of New   Jersey on Tuesday. The meeting was confirmed by a source with   direct knowledge of the meeting who was not authorized to discuss   it publicly. ” ”   The meetings have been designed to let Trump’s family get to know   the candidates better before the presumptive nominee formalizes   his decision. ” ”   Trump had originally planned to fly back from Indiana with Pence   after a rally Tuesday night, but his plane was grounded by   mechanical issues, so Trump’s kids flew to join them in Indiana,   another person familiar with his movements but who was not   authorized to discuss them said. ” ’   ”It was a late plan,” Pence told reporters later Wednesday. ”I   was hauling dishes from the cupboard at midnight. (His wife)   Karen laid out a nice spread.” ’ ”   Indiana is a state with particular significance for the   presumptive GOP nominee: It’s where he effectively locked up the   GOP nomination with a commanding primary win that drove former   rival Ted Cruz from the race. ” ”   Pence, Chris Christie, and Gingrich were said to be the final   contenders for   candidate on the Republican   ticket less than a week before the GOP meets in Cleveland for the   formal nomination. That’s according to a person familiar with   Trump’s thinking who spoke on condition of anonymity because the   person was not authorized to discuss the vetting process. Trump   said in a Tuesday interview with The Wall Street Journal that   Sessions, Trump’s top Senate advocate, was also still in the mix. ” ’  ’ ”   Pence is a steady, staunch conservative who would help calm   nervous Republican wary of Trump’s impulsive style. Gingrich is a   boisterous   who has spent decades in Washington,   including as House speaker. Christie, a   rival, has   become one of Trump’s most trusted advisers. ” ’   Trump has spent weeks consulting with friends and family as he   weighs the most important decision of his campaign to date. He   has also brought his finalists on tour, having them opening for   him at speeches and rallies to test their receptions before his   crowds. ’ ’   ”It’’s a little bit like ’’The Apprentice,’’” Gingrich, the former   House Speaker, said in a Tuesday interview with Fox News. ”You   find out sooner or later who the last one standing is.” ’ ’   Trump appeared reluctant to commit on Wednesday. ”I’’m narrowing   it down. I mean I’’m at three, potentially four. But in my own   mind, I probably am thinking about two,” he told Fox News’’ Bret   Baier. ’ ”   Introducing Trump at a rally in Westfield, Indiana, on Tuesday   evening, Pence received an enthusiastic reception as he compared   Trump to Republican icon Ronald Reagan and dug into Trump’s   likely Democratic rival, Hillary Clinton. ” ’   Trump told The Wall Street Journal on Tuesday he was looking for   a ”fighter skilled in    combat” as his      but hadn’’t seen enough of Pence to measure his   fight. ’ ’   While Trump kept his cards close, he spoke playfully of Pence at   the rally: ”I don’’t know whether he’’s going to be your governor   or your vice president.” ’ ’   Pence told reporters Wednesday he was ”honored by the attention”   and the ”opportunity to get to know this good man and his   family.” ’ ’   ”There’’s a number of other and noteworthy Americans that they’’re   considering and I’’m just honored to be on that list,” he said. ’ ’  ’ ”   Pence and Gingrich would be welcome picks among anxious   Republican officials already gathering in Cleveland for next   week’s convention. Their governing experience and popularity   among the party’s conservative base would mark a sharp contrast   to Trump, whose brand of politics has alienated     conservatives and establishment Republicans alike. ” ’   Trump’’s team has been building hype for the decision, including   in a text message to supporters that urged recipients to sign up   to receive an early notification of the choice. Fox News added to   the speculation Tuesday when it said it had suspended its   contributor agreement with Gingrich ”due to the intense media   speculation” about his potential to join Trump’’s ticket. ’ ”   Less than an hour later, Gingrich appeared on the network and   suggested that Trump’s decision was imminent. ” ’   ”My guess is you’’re going to hear either tomorrow or Thursday,”   Gingrich said. ’ ’     ’ ’   Colvin reported from Washington. Associated Press writers   Jonathan Lemire in New York and Julie Bykowicz in Indiana   contributed to this report. ’