’  ’ ’   An attempted military coup by a faction within the Turkish armed   forces   was stifled in less than 24 hours,   after Turkish president Recep Tayyip Erdogan called on his   supporters to take to the streets and repel the uprising. ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ”   At least 256 people were killed in the clashes, according to   Turkey’s prime minister. But the uprising itself was   repelled rather quickly. Many soldiers had either been   arrested, brutally beaten by protesters, or had surrendered by   early Saturday morning, allowing   the Turkish government to regain almost   complete control within 24 hours. ” ’   ”I predicted this would fail from early on, because all of   Turkey’’s opposition parties came out against the coup from the   beginning,” Aykan Erdemir, a former member of Turkish parliament   and senior fellow at the Washington,   think tank   Foundation for Defense of Democracies, told Business Insider on   Saturday. ’ ’   He added: ”With the opposition, the media, and Erdogan’’s   supporters against them, the soldiers had no chance of gaining   any traction.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Geopolitical expert Ian Bremmer, president of the     firm Eurasia Group, largely agreed. ’ ’  ’ ’   The extent of the divisions within Turkey’’s military itself,   however, is arguably the biggest reason the uprising failed,   experts say. Though the uprising encompassed ”quite a   sizeable network” of young colonels and generals, it did not have   the support of   Turkish military officers. ’ ”Erdemir, of the FDD, pointed out that the   military’s chief of staff was taken hostage by the     on Friday night and not released until late Saturday morning. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Many are now wondering why the plotters of the coup  —   many of   whom appeared to be young colonels, not   military   officers  —   went ahead with an operation that, in the words of US   Secretary of State John Kerry, ”did not appear to   be  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   A member of Erdogan’’s ruling Justice And Development Party   (AKP) told The Daily Beast late Friday night that the uprising   was a ”last gasp” by a faction within the   military accustomed to taking on Turkey’’s democratically   elected governments. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Some are now saying this group of officers who staged the coup,   for whatever reason, were to be purged in August, so the coup   amounted to a desperate move for them to keep their   positions,” I   definitely think this could be one rationale.” ’ ’  ’ ’   A   antigovernment  took to   Twitter on Saturday to describe a related, yet more immediate,   incident that led the officers to mobilize. ’ ”   In a string of tweets in Turkish  —    a journalist for the   newspaper   Daily Sabah  —   Ahmet Sik, citing security sources, said Turkey’s   prosecutor had decided to arrest the plotters for   an  ” ’   According to Sik, the coup was planned for a later date  —   perhaps   just before the August military purge  —   but ’ ’  ’ ’   In any case, Erdemir said, ”it won’’t be easy to overcome this.” ’ ’   ”One of NATO’’s key members is now facing a severe crisis in   its military, and this will have severe repercussions on NATO’’s   strength and the fight against ISIS,” Erdemir said. ”This is   probably the weakest the Turkish military has ever been in the   history of the Turkish republic.” ’