’  ’ ’   Blockchain could be a real game changer for the     industry, and big Wall Street banks and stock   exchanges are trying to work out how to make the technology work. ’ ’   But one big subset of Wall Street  —   big     companies  —   is watching from the sidelines. That could be ”a   mistake,” according to a . ’ ’   ”Many asset managers have taken a    approach, under   the assumption that any eventual cost savings or opportunities   will flow downstream,” the report says. ’ ’  ’ ”   Blockchain, in a nutshell, allows banks and investors to share   data through what’s called a distributed ledger. The alternative    —   which is how things are done today  —   is that every bank,   investor, exchange, and trader keep their own records. So   adopting the technology would cut down on a huge amount of       expenses at firms that have huge staffs   working just to keep records   . ” ’   And it would reduce the possibility that the data can be tampered   with. ’ ’   So, just like for the big banks, this has huge implications for   asset managers  —   who face a litany of problems these days.   Revenues and assets under management are declining, and   technology could help offset that. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   As asset managers cut costs and improve services, savings may in   turn be passed along to end investors, who will benefit from   lower fees over time. ’ ’   The industry, though, has yet to take part in the action, and the   report urges early engagement. If it gets involved now, it can    help   drive the right issues and use cases forward. Those firms that   choose to get involved can also gain a competitive advantage from   working with the right partners early to develop solutions that   work for them. ’ ’   Nasdaq has used blockchain to  for example, and the Depository   Trust and Clearing Corporation . Ipreo   and Symbiont have used blockchain to set up a  in the   market. ’ ’   The Australian Securities Exchange is  and will decide by   whether it   will replace its   clearing and settlement system with a   blockchain solution.  the   body trying to   bring blockchain technology to finance. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’