’  ’ ”   CLEVELAND  —   Donald Trump’s wife, Melania, was the star of the   show Monday on the first night of the Republican National   Convention. ” ”   But political observers on Twitter were quick to note that parts   of Melania’s speech seemed to be ripped from Michelle Obama’s    at the Democratic National Convention. ” ’   Here are the relevant passages from each speech: ’ ’   The similarities between the two speeches first gained traction    who describes himself on Twitter   as a journalist and an interior designer. ’ ’  ’ ’   Melania had told NBC’’s ”Today” show Monday that she had written   the speech herself ”with as little help as possible.” ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tVIDEO: Melania Trump told NBC’’s Matt Lauer before the speech: ”I wrote it. ..with a little help as possible.”  ’ ”   Before the plagiarism accusations surfaced, Melania’s speech   seemed  . ” ’   Melania, a   former model, spoke about coming to   America and called for unity heading into the general election   this fall. ’ ’   While many of the other speakers focused on bashing Democrats on   the first night of the convention, dubbed ”Make America Safe   Again,” she sought to bring people together. ’ ’   ”The primary season and its toughness is behind us,” Melania   said. ”Let’’s all come together in a national campaign like no   other.” ’ ”   Melania also alluded to her husband’s fiery rhetoric, attributing   it to his love for the country. ” ’   ”The race will be hard fought all the way to November,” Melania   said. ”There will be good times and hard times and unexpected   turns. It would not be a Trump contest without excitement and   drama. But throughout it all, my husband will remain focused on   only one thing  —   this beautiful country that he loves so much.” ’ ’   Her message was much more warm and fuzzy than that of other   speakers. ’ ’   ”There is a great deal of love in the Trump family,” she said.   ”That is our bond, and that is our strength.” ’ ’   Melania also spoke of her path to becoming a US citizen, calling   it the ”greatest privilege on planet Earth.” ’ ’   ”I am fortunate for my heritage, but also for where it brought me   today,” she said. ”I traveled the world while working hard in the   incredible arena of fashion. After living and working in Milan   and Paris, I arrived in New York City 20 years ago and I saw both   the joys and hardships of daily life. On July 28, 2006, I was   very proud to become [a] citizen of the United States  —   the   greatest privilege on planet Earth.” ’ ’   Melania said she would not ”take the freedoms this country offers   for granted,” noting that ”these freedoms have come with a price   so many times.” ’ ’   She then recognized ”an amazing veteran, the great” former Sen.   Bob Dole of Kansas, who received a standing ovation and stood up   to wave to the cameras. ’ ’   Donald Trump, who had introduced his wife, reappeared after   Melania finished speaking. As soon as the pair left the stage,   delegates and other convention attendees started streaming for   the exits. ’