’  ’ ’   A Trump Organization staffer who helped Melania Trump craft her   primetime speech before the Republican National Convention   offered an apology Wednesday after the prepared remarks were   found to contain plagiarism. ’ ’   ”This was my mistake, and I feel terrible for the chaos I have   caused Melania and the Trumps, as well as to Mrs. Obama,” Trump   staff writer Meredith McIver said in a note. ”No harm was meant.” ’ ’   ”I apologize for the confusion and hysteria my mistake has   caused,” she added. ’ ’   The comments came two days after Melania Trump delivered her   speech at the RNC in which she  from first lady Michelle Obama’s   2008 Democratic National Convention address. ’ ’   McIver said that while working with Melania Trump the two   ”discussed many people who inspired her.” ’ ’   ”A person she has always liked is Michelle Obama,” McIver said.   ”Over the phone, she read me some passages from Mrs. Obama’’s   speech as examples. I wrote them down and later included some of   the phrasing in the draft that ultimately became the final   speech. I did not check Mrs. Obama’’s speeches.” ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tMeredith McIver, an   staff writer from the Trump Organization, releases statement on Melania speech  ’ ’   McIver said that she offered her resignation, but that it was   rejected. ’ ’   ”Mr. Trump told me that people make innocent mistakes and that we   learn and grow from these experiences,” she said. ’ ’   As a result, McIver said she insisted on making a statement   because she ”did not like seeing the way this was distracting   from Mr. Trump’’s historic campaign for president and Melania’’s   beautiful message and presentation.” ’ ’   McIver added that she was ”honored to work for such a great   family” and admired the way the Trumps ”handled this situation.” ’ ’   Trump aides and surrogates had previously denied the speech   contained plagiarism, despite clear evidence to the contrary. ’ ’   Before she delivered her prepared remarks, Melania told NBC News   that she personally wrote her speech ”with as little help as   possible.” A Tuesday  indicated that the Trump   campaign had commissioned two speechwriters to draft Melania’’s   speech, but that the draft was significantly changed by the time   she delivered it. ’ ’   Donald Trump  Wednesday morning, saying   that Melania’’s speech ”got more publicity than any in the history   of politics.” He implied that, as a result, the scandal was a   blessing in disguise ”if you believe that all press is good   press.” ’