’  ’ ”   In late 2015, hundreds of Chipotle customers were  contaminated with E. coli bacteria or   norovirus, which led the company to close dozens of restaurants.   Chipotle’s   sales  in the first quarter of 2016. ” ”   Then, in June 2016, the company’s chief marketing and   development officer, Mark Crumpacker, was  from a drug delivery   service in New York. ” ” found that a quarter of respondents say   they’ve either stopped going to Chipotle or are going less often.   Chipotle is hardly the first big company to screw up, but the   reason it’s now struggling to woo customers might have to do with   a mistake it made while growing its business over the past two   decades. ” ’   That mistake was placing too much focus on food and not   enough on connections with customers. ’ ’   That’’s according to Chris Malone, founding partner of the   consulting and professional services firm Fidelum Partners and   coauthor, with the psychologist Susan Fiske, of ”.” In the book, Malone and Fiske cite years of   research suggesting that people form relationships with brands   the same way they form relationships with other people. ’ ’   We look for the same traits in brands that we look for in people    —   specifically . And Chipotle now falls short on both criteria    —   which spells trouble ahead. ’ ’   ”Chipotle was really vulnerable because of their heavy reliance   on their claims about their food,” Malone told Business Insider. ’ ”   That might sound weird  —   isn’t Chipotle a food chain?  —   but   Malone suggested that interpersonal relationships are as   important to a company’s perception as they are to the product   it’s selling. In fact,  found that people thought products of brands perceived   to be competent and warm tasted better than products of   companies that were just one or neither. ” ”   When something went wrong with Chipotle’s food, the company   couldn’t fall back on being nice and friendly. It might be left   with its ultracommitted customers, but it would be hard to   attract new ones. ” ”   Malone said he doesn’t have concrete data, but before the   outbreaks, he’d personally observed minimal interaction between   customers and servers, almost no managerial supervision, and   employees unfazed by long wait times. ” ”   Then the outbreaks  —   and the fact that the company couldn’t   pinpoint their source  —   called into question Chipotle’s core   competency. Suddenly the company had nothing going for it. ” ’  ’ ’   ”In the absence of knowing really anyone at Chipotle, or what   they care about, or having any relationship with them,” Malone   said, ”we’’re more likely to assume the worst intention.”   Customers might think the company was cutting corners or even   that it had malevolent intentions. ’ ’   ”Whereas if we know someone, we’’re more likely to consider that   they maybe had good intentions and just slipped up in that   instance,” he added. ’ ’   In ”The Human Brand,” Malone and Fiske explain that corporate     can be opportunities for brands to increase   customer loyalty by demonstrating that they’’re human and   therefore fallible like anyone else. But Malone said the company   hasn’’t done a great job of demonstrating its warmth even after   the outbreaks. ’ ”   For example, the company recently released an  about two kids selling orange juice and lemonade who   grow up and try to beat each other’s businesses by adding   artificial ingredients to their beverages. In the end, they go   back to their roots and focus on fresh, whole food. ” ”   The problem, Malone said, is that the (admittedly adorable) film   focuses on food, and not people. Instead of trying to   seem warmer, Chipotle tried to seem more competent  —   but that   isn’t the real issue. ” ’   If Chipotle wants to bolster its image among consumers, it needs   to ”put more of a human face on the company,” Malone said. But   he’’s skeptical that it would be able to do that. ’ ’   ”It’’s human nature for us to forgive those people,” he added.   ”But we don’’t have a lot of trust and forgiveness for faceless   monoliths.” ’