’  ’ ”   Joe Scarborough offered Donald Trump a stark warning: The answer   to the Republican nominee’s campaign woes is not his family. ” ’   During ”Morning Joe” on Wednesday, the longtime MSNBC host   acknowledged that while Trump’’s family members have done ”great   things for the campaign,” the campaign would suffer if it did not   hire serious campaign staffers who have won past presidential   elections. ’ ’   ”There’’s nobody in this family that has ever run a political   campaign before, or picked a vice president before,” Scarborough   said. ’ ’   ”At least have them managing it with someone who has done it   before.” ’ ’   When Bloomberg Politics editor Mark Halperin pointed out that the   Trump family is ”very close,” Scarborough quickly shot back. ’ ’   ”My family is very close, too. If I decided to be a brain surgeon   tomorrow, I wouldn’’t have Jack and Kate and Andrew and Joey   around me going ’’scalpel? ’’” Scarborough said. ’ ”   The MSNBC host scoffed at Trump campaign chair Paul Manafort’s   qualifications to run the campaign, which he said did not align   with the current political landscape. ” ’   ”You’’ve never done this before. And yes, you won the Republican   primary. But to suggest that just because you’’re close as a   family that you all alone can run this without someone who that   has done something this complicated . .. is handing the presidency   to Hillary Clinton,” Scarborough said. ’ ”   Scarborough’s comments come two days after the campaign suffered   a major embarrassment when it was revealed that sections of   Melania Trump’s address to the Republican National Convention   were lifted from Michelle Obama’s 2008 Democratic National   Convention speech. ” ”   Trump’s children have played a major role in shaping the   campaign. ” ’   Ivanka Trump  helped muscle former campaign manager Corey   Lewandowski out of the campaign, while her husband, Jared   Kushner, has helped write several major speeches and played a key   role in the vice presidential selection process. Eric Trump and   Donald Trump Jr. have also both taken on roles as major campaign   surrogates. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’t. on the Trumps: Nobody in this family has ever run a political campaign before. .. time to bring on pros  ’