’  ’ ”   CLEVELAND  —   Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas spoke at the Republican   National Convention on Wednesday night without endorsing the   party’s nominee, Donald Trump, and he exited the stage to loud   boos from the crowd. ” ”   Most of Cruz’s speech seemed   by the crowd at the   Quicken Loans Arena in Cleveland, but once it became clear that   the former 2016 presidential candidate would not endorse Trump,   the crowd started booing. ” ’   Not only did Cruz neglect to endorse Trump, but he also told the   audience to vote their conscience in November. ’ ’   ”To those listening, please, don’’t stay home in November,” Cruz   said. ”Stand, and speak, and vote your conscience, vote for   candidates up and down the ticket who you trust to defend our   freedom and to be faithful to the Constitution.” ’ ’   Boos and a chant of ”We want Trump!” rose up from the audience. ’ ’   Cruz paused before saying: ”I appreciate the enthusiasm of the   New York delegation.” ’ ’ ’ ’The audience starts shouting ”we want Trump” while Ted Cruz speaks at the   ’ ’   He then lost the crowd. Some in the audience were booing, some   were chanting, and many were shouting over him as he pushed ahead   with his prepared remarks. The noise from the crowd almost   completely drowned out what Cruz was saying at the end of his   speech. ’ ’   Trump himself appeared in the arena as Cruz was finishing   speaking, and the senator exited the stage to more boos. ’ ’ ’ ’The moment everyone is talking about:  booed off stage after he refused to endorse Trump.  ’ ”   After the speech, Cruz’s wife, Heidi, was escorted out by   security amid an angry crowd,  CNN reporter Manu Raju. ” ’   Cruz stuck very closely to his prepared remarks, and much of his   speech fell   with the party’’s   ”autopsy report”   that analyzed where Republicans went wrong the year Mitt Romney   lost the election. That report said the party must be more   inclusive if it were to remain relevant. ’ ’   Cruz said: ’ ’   Earlier in the day, Cruz held a   event at a restaurant   in Cleveland for campaign volunteers. His speech there touched on   similar themes, and many of his supporters in the crowd chanted   ”2020! 2020!” and booed as Trump’’s plane flew overhead. ’ ”   Cruz, who came in second place in the delegate count but couldn’t   manage to stave off Trump in the primaries, is    if Trump loses the White House this November. ”