’  ’ ”   As Benjy Sarlin of MSNBC  Wednesday night’s Republican convention fiasco,   in which Sen. Ted Cruz was booed off the stage  was the result of a deal that Donald Trump   negotiated. ” ”   The man who claims to be the world’s leading authority on deals   made a really stupid one in front of the entire country he hopes   to lead. Sad! ” ”   Trump agreed to let Cruz give a   speech without having   to promise an endorsement. I don’t know for sure what Trump got   in exchange for that, but I have a guess. ” ”   Cruz won enough states that he was entitled to have his name   entered for nomination, which would have forced a formal floor   contest on Tuesday that Trump wished to avoid, even though Trump   would have won it. Cruz didn’t enter his name, and Trump gave him   a speaking slot without requiring an endorsement. ” ’   The Trump campaign knew on Monday that Cruz would not endorse in   his speech,  citing sources from both the Trump and   Cruz campaigns. ’ ’’ ’   Even if they were hoping Cruz would change his mind, they had to   know by 8:20 p. m. Wednesday that Cruz would not endorse, since   that’’s when the Republican National Convention emailed the full   text of the speech to reporters, including the ”vote your   conscience” line and omitting any endorsement. ’ ’   So Trump knew Cruz wouldn’’t endorse, and his campaign could have   prepared his loyalists for that fact. And it seems they did, but   not in a way that makes any sense: Zeke Miller of Time, among   others,  Trump campaign ”whips” on the convention floor  —     campaign loyalists whose job is to keep friendly delegates in   line  —   encouraged the booing. ’ ’   After the speech, Trump’’s surrogates have been savaging Cruz in   the media. Gov. Chris Christie called the speech ”selfish.”   Trump’’s lawyer, Michael Cohen, said on CNN that the RNC should   take retaliatory action against Cruz (and also Gov. John Kasich)   for failing to endorse the nominee as they had pledged to do. ’ ”   I understand the desire to vent. But recriminations against   wayward Republicans do nothing to get Trump elected. They only   make it harder for Trump to consolidate the votes he needs to   win. This is not strategy  —   it’s stupidity. ” ”   Trump could have urged his supporters to listen politely and   magnanimously to what he knew would be a nonendorsement speech.   Or, if the idea of a nonendorsement was too outrageous to bear,   he could have denied Cruz a speaking slot. Having Cruz’s name   entered into nomination would have been less damaging than this   mess. ” ’   I suspect that Trump and his advisers simply misread the   situation: They thought being booed off the stage would be a   humiliation for Cruz and did not sufficiently consider how the   episode could damage Trump. ’ ’   This was really, really stupid. It might make you feel like   laughing at Trump for his terrible dealmaking skills. But   remember, if he becomes president, Donald Trump will have the job   of making deals on our behalf  —   and he is likely to screw them up   the way he screwed up this one. ’