’  ’ ’CLEVELAND  —   One chant rung louder than the rest   at Donald Trump’’s recently   convention: ”Lock her up!” ’ ’   Throughout the   extravaganza in Cleveland, speakers were   routinely interrupted with chants of ”lock her up” as they   stirred some of the strongest   Clinton sentiment of   the 2016 election. ’ ’   On Monday and Tuesday in particular, most speakers devoted their   attention on hammering away at Clinton, suggesting she should be   in prison rather than focus on a more   message. ’ ’   ”Lock her up!” retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn repeated during a   lengthy Monday address as the crowd began chanting. New Jersey   Gov. Chris Christie asked the crowd whether Clinton was ”guilty”   of a litany of statements he made of the former secretary of   state and presumptive Democratic nominee. Many other speakers   joined in. The crowd broke out in a ”lock her up” chant on each   of the four nights. ’ ’   But was it too much? ’ ’   ”Very good question,” Pennsylvania delegate Mike McMullen told   Business Insider. ”There’’s always a lot of rhetoric to fire up   the base and fire up the delegates and fire up everybody here.   But stick to the issues.” ’ ’   ”Let’’s stop the damn   and the insults,” he said,   before referencing FBI Director James Comey’’s recent decision to   suggest she shouldn’’t face charges for her use of a private email   server during her tenure as secretary of state, although he said   her handling of sensitive intelligence was ”extremely careless.” ’ ’   ”Whether we like it or not as Republicans, the FBI looked into   it, investigated it,” he continued. ”Right or wrong  —   I don’’t   even want to get into that dialogue  —   it’’s a moot point.” ’ ’   ”There’’s no appeal process,” he said. ”Deal with it. Accept it   and move on. Let’’s talk about jobs, taxes, and the economy. This     is great to rally the base. Let’’s stick to the   issues.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Rep. Lou Barletta of Pennsylvania told Business Insider that he   thought the early portion of the week was a bit too focused on   driving home a strong   message without pairing it   with an equally strong   voice to counter it. ’ ’   But as the week went on, he said it became more about Trump and   what he wants to do. ’ ’   And, he added, ignoring the failures of Clinton would be   ”foolish.” ’ ’   ”Anybody who is running against her would be foolish to not point   out the difference, especially when the most important issues are   jobs and national security,” he said. ”And Hillary Clinton has   been a failure in keeping us safe and what’’s happening around the   world. It’’s impossible not to have that contrast of here is the   two options Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump, and who’’s going to   make you more safe. You can’’t do that without pointing those   differences out.” ’ ’   As Barletta hinted to by mentioning national security, the   strongest day for   sentiment was Monday  —   the day   reserved for the theme ”making America safe again.” ’ ’   Mentioning a Trump speech from earlier this year, in which he   laid out his message for the future while contrasting with   Clinton, Ned Ryun, a conservative grassroots activist and founder   of American Majority, told Business Insider that he ”wished we   hear more of that.” ’ ’   ”It’’s something a lot of us would like to see heading out of the   convention,” he said prior to Trump’’s Thursday night speech. ”I   always like to be intentional about winning, and I think they   could be a bit more intentional to be honest. Let’’s not leave it   to chance where people say anybody but Hillary. Why don’’t we make   an argument that he’’s got some good ideas and a compelling vision   for the future? ’’Cause you put yourself in a much stronger   position.” ’ ’   Asked about the convention focusing too much on a negative     message as opposed to a more positive one outlining   reasons to vote for the Manhattan billionaire in November, Rep.   Tom MacArthur of New Jersey told Business Insider it was   ”not what I’’ve experienced.” ’ ’   ”You’’re describing a negativity that I haven’’t experienced,” he   said. ”I think the atmosphere has been energizing here. And I   think our party is coming together.” ’ ’  ’ ’   On the final night of the convention, Trump was faced with the   ”lock her up” chant head on  —   and his decision on how to   handle the impassioned crowd was one of the biggest   moments of the entire convention. ’ ’   Trump looked away, toward one side of the stage, and then faced   front and center. He shook his hands as if to wave off the chant   and left the crowd with a simple message. ’ ’   ”Let’’s defeat her in November,” he said. ’ ’   Matt Shaner, an   delegate from Pennsylvania, told   Business Insider it was a great answer. ’ ’   ”Yeah, I thought it was good for him to do that, because he has   come off kind of hard or harsh,” he said. ”He’’s had some issues   with women voters, so I thought he made a really good move.” ’