’  ’ ’   The lingerie industry is going through a massive change. ’ ’     models are being replaced with a variety of body types   at lingerie companies from Aerie to Adore Me, as  replace   the restrictive norms of the past. ’ ”   This new attitude from consumers threatens everything that   Victoria’s Secret’s marketing is known for, from the Photoshopped   ads of Angels to the outrageously produced fashion show. ” ”   And now Adore Me  —   a company that    —   has   hired Aerie’s popular spokesmodel, . ” ’   Lawrence, who has a huge Instagram following, is curvier than the   typical lingerie model. ’ ’ ’ ’   Arguably, Aerie pioneered this movement when it abandoned    It launched its campaign    and has advertised women that   have other body types beyond the typically   model found   in most lingerie spreads and found a star in the curvy Lawrence. ’ ’   Last week, Lawrence shared an unphotoshopped photo of herself   from her new Adore Me campaign on . Notably, it features her in   between two traditional looking models, showing that yes, all   women can be depicted together. ’ ’   ” about how she’’s come to terms   with her body and a message about loving oneself. Lawrence has   become something of a poster girl for body positivity. ’ ’   Adore Me has also utilized curvy model Sophie  . The   company seems to be on a mission to promote inclusivity. ’ ’   ”Adore Me’s vision is to revolutionize the lingerie industry by   creating beautiful, affordable intimates for every body type. We   believe that every woman, in every size and body shape, deserves   to feel strong, confident, beautiful and sexy in her own skin,”   CEO Morgan   wrote to Business Insider. ”We are   extremely proud to be the only major lingerie line to offer   accessible and inclusive fashion that ranges from petite to plus   (sizes   for bras and   for sleepwear designs).” ’ ’   ”Part of our mission to redefine lingerie is to challenge common   perceptions of what constitutes being beautiful and sexy. For   Adore Me, a world where you have to be a certain size in order to   be considered beautiful is simply unacceptable,” he added. ’ ’  ’ ”   But women may not even need a lingerie company to tell them that;   their perceptions of what’s beautiful and sexy have inherently   changed. If the  can tell us   anything, it’s that women know that they can have curves and be   healthy, and that wellness, not thinness, is now the goal. ” ’      not  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Part of her mission with her company, though, is to help ”brands   understand that they don’t control the narrative anymore. They   don’t get to say what [we] should like anymore. And so I think   Victoria’’s Secret’s having a bit of a challenge with that,”   Sammis said. ’ ’   ”For so long they’ve been able to kind of direct that narrative   and say, ’’this is what’’s a beautiful sexy body looks like,’’ and   consumers are saying ’’no, actually my body is what a beautiful,   sexy body looks like,’’” Sammis told Business Insider. ’ ’  ’ ’   In 2014, Victoria’’s Secret  though the company  and changed   the verbiage to ”a body for every body.” But was it really   every body? ’ ’   Following the campaign, curvy model Brittany Cordts  asking the   company to actually show every type of body  —   or, at   least, body types beyond the models that it displays in its   fashion show. ’ ’   Of course, it doesn’’t help that the company doesn’’t sell plus   sizes, either. And some women just want to see more accurate   depictions of what women actually look like  —   which is arguably   why Aerie’’s   campaign has performed so well.   Interestingly enough, in an unusual attempt to sell ”what’’s real”    —   that is to say, what is without padding  —   Victoria’’s Secret has   been zeroing in on selling the . ’ ”   But it’s not just about showing a variety of body types. It’s   about catering to the consumer. ” ’   In fact, earlier this year, a  photo got heat for   being so overtly sexual that some people thought it bordered   on pornographic. Customers on Facebook were furious and called it   ”trashy.” Was this underwear advertisement for women or for men? ’ ’   ”There’’s  ’ ’  ’ ’   For the most part, numbers show that when companies   offer more accurate depictions of women for women,   sales improve.  ’ ”   Adore Me has also seen profits skyrocket over the years. In   fiscal 2015, it took in $42. 7 million in revenue  —   still, nothing   on Victoria’s Secret’s nearly $7. 7 billion from fiscal 2015  —   but   it is rapid growth from 2014, when it took in $16. 2 million. (The   company, which operates primarily on a subscription model, has   not been without its struggles; it has been plagued by    and  by     firm Truth in Advertising.) ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’