’  ’ ’CLEVELAND  —   One common theme emerged from the   Republican National Convention this week  —   stopping Hillary   Clinton. ’ ’   While the party did seem to unify around its nominee, Donald   Trump, some of the strongest and most impassioned rhetoric   surrounded the argument that Clinton, the presumptive Democratic   presidential nominee, would be bad for the country. ’ ’   ”I think it’’s a real problem,” Rick Tyler, veteran Republican   operative and former communications director for Texas Sen. Ted   Cruz, told Business Insider. ”Slamming Hillary Clinton and   pointing out her record is one thing. . .. But being against the   other candidate is not a message, and it’’s not a winning   strategy.” ’ ”   Arkansas Sen. Tom Cotton, considered a rising star within the   party and potential contender in 2020 if Trump fails to win the   White House this November, didn’t even mention Trump’s name   during a breakfast for Ohio delegates on Monday. And during his   speech that evening, he mentioned Trump only once  —   in connection   with his running mate, Indiana Gov. Mike Pence, who is popular   among the party’s establishment. ” ’   And while House Speaker Paul Ryan seemed reluctant to publicly   support Trump, even as it became clear that he would win the   nomination, he has made his opposition to Clinton very clear. ’ ’   Many Republicans at the convention seemed to share that attitude. ’ ’   ”Do I think Donald Trump is the savior of our republic? No,” Ryan   Shinn, a Cruz supporter whose wife was a Texas delegate at the   convention, said after a Cruz event Wednesday. ’ ’   ”Of course not. But nor is Ted Cruz. But does Donald Trump have   the potential to be a great president? Sure, absolutely. Do I   think Hillary Clinton has the potential to be the death of our   republic? Absolutely. So I do support Donald Trump.” ’ ’   Ned Ryun, a grassroots and conservative activism expert who   attended the convention, said voters have a ”binary choice”   between Trump and Clinton in November. ’ ’   ”A lot of us have had questions, have some questions about Trump,   but it’’s one of those things when confronted with Hillary, it’’s a   binary choice of either or, and I’’ll take Trump over Hillary any   day,” Ryun said. ’ ’   ”It’’s just like I think some people think there’’s a third option,   and I just don’’t think so.” ’ ”   But geopolitical expert Ian Bremmer, president of     consulting firm the Eurasia Group, pointed out in a Thursday   interview that libertarian Gary Johnson’s support reached 13%   . This could be a reflection of the   unpopularity of Trump and Clinton, who both have high negative   ratings among voters. ” ’   ”The worst thing that can happen in November is if Americans say,   ’’my voice doesn’t matter. I’’m not going to vote,’’” Bremmer said.   ”[I]f Trump wins in this election, and I don’’t think he’’s going   to, but if he wins, he will win because the average American   feels like it doesn’’t matter what they do.” ’ ’  ’ ”   The divide within the Republican Party became clear Wednesday   night when Cruz, who came in second place behind Trump in the   primaries, was booed off stage after refusing to endorse Trump.   Some delegates on the floor were booing Cruz once it became   apparent he wouldn’t speak in favor of Trump, while others booed   when Trump entered the arena at the end of Cruz’s speech, which   some saw as a ploy for attention. ” ”   Tyler also noted that the arena didn’t seem full enough on   Tuesday when Trump officially won the party’s nomination. ” ’   ”Normally everybody wants to be in the room when the candidate is   nominated. It’’s like one of those historic moments when you say,   ’’I was there when,’’” Tyler said. ”It didn’’t seem to happen. So   this is the most bizarre convention I’’ve ever been to.” ’ ”   But if there’s one thing Republicans can rally around, it’s   defeating Clinton. ” ”   While Cotton didn’t mention Trump’s name in his breakfast speech   Monday, he  her. ” ’   Another rising star in the GOP, Iowa Sen. Joni Ernst, did speak   out in favor of Trump at the convention, but spent more time in   her speech Thursday night outlining the argument against Clinton. ’ ’   ”Our country and the world of which we are a part simply cannot   afford four more years of this lack of leadership under Hillary   Clinton,” Ernst said. ”[U]nfortunately, Hillary Clinton cannot be   trusted. Her judgment and character are not suited to be sitting   in the most powerful office in the world.” ’