’  ’ ’   Until now, art historians dismissed some doodles in Da Vinci’’s   notebooks as ”irrelevant.” ’ ’   But a  from Ian Hutchings, a professor at the University   of Cambridge, shows that one page of these scribbles from 1493   actually contained something groundbreaking: the first written   records demonstrating the laws of friction. ’ ”   Although it has been common knowledge that Da Vinci conducted the   first systematic study of friction (which underpins the modern   science of tribology, or the study of friction, lubrication, and   wear) we didn’t know how and when he came up with these ideas. ” ’   Hutchings was able to put together a  pinpointing Da Vinci’’s ”aha” moment to a   single page of scribbles penned in red chalk in 1493. ’ ’   According to Gizmodo, the page drew attention toward the   beginning of the 20th century because of a  followed by ”cosa   bella mortal passa e non dura,” which translates to ”mortal   beauty passes and does not last.” ’ ’’ ’   But a 1920s museum director dismissed the page as ”irrelevant   notes and diagrams in red chalk.” ’ ’   Almost a century later, Hutchings thought this page was worth a   second look. He discovered that the rough geometrical figures   drawn underneath the red notes show     —   in exactly the same kind of experiment students might do today   to demonstrate the laws of friction. ’ ’   ”The sketches and text show Leonardo understood the fundamentals   of friction in 1493,” Hutchings said in a University of Cambridge   press release. ”He knew that the force of friction acting between   two sliding surfaces is proportional to the load pressing the   surfaces together and that friction is independent of the   apparent area of contact between the two surfaces. These are the   ’’laws of friction’’ that we nowadays usually credit to a French   scientist, Guillaume Amontons, working two hundred years later.” ’ ’   Hutchings was also able to show how Da Vinci used his   understanding of friction to sketch designs for complex machines   over the next two decades. Da Vinci recognized the usefulness and   effectiveness of friction and worked the concept into the   behavior of wheels, axles, and pulleys  —   integral components of   his complicated machines. ’ ’   ”Leonardo’’s   study of friction, which incorporated his   empirical understanding into models for several mechanical   systems, confirms his position as a remarkable and inspirational   pioneer of tribology,” Hutchings said. ’