’  ’ ”CLEVELAND  —   The jockeying for positioning in the   next Republican presidential contest has already begun  —   and at   this week’s convention, a couple of people were able to separate   themselves from what is certain to be as large of a glut of   contenders as there were in the 2016 cycle. ” ”   Sens. Tom Cotton of Arkansas, Joni Ernst of Iowa, and Ted Cruz of   Texas were all on hand. So too were Govs. Scott Walker of   Wisconsin and Mike Pence of Indiana, Republican nominee Donald   Trump’s running mate. Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida addressed the   crowd via video. ” ’   Each has a compelling case to run in 2020. But more so than the   others, Cruz and Pence have created the most space for themselves   from the crowd. ’ ”   And, if one speech from the convention is remembered, it will be   Cruz’s, which stirred up the biggest controversy of the week. It   remains to be seen whether the Texas senator’s speech will help   boost him in the   event of his 2020 campaign, or   drag him down, further hampering his efforts after coming in   second this time around. ” ’   Of course, the biggest question is whether Trump wins, which will   almost certainly then push the next primary contest back to 2024   instead of 2020. Matt Mackowiak, founder of the Potomac Strategy   Group, told Business Insider that it’’s ”very unlikely” Trump   would be successfully primaried if he wins. ’ ’   But if Trump loses, the margin by which he does is important. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”If he loses by one or two points, his supporters and maybe the   party will come to blame Cruz for not endorsing and not getting   some conservatives to come through,” Mackowiak said. ”But on the   other hand, if Trump gets blown out, Cruz will be the one who’’s   most pure.” ’ ’   By not electing to endorse Trump, leading to the audience booing   him off the stage and later to him answering a series of tough   questions from the Texas delegation, Cruz is more free of Trump   than the others, such as Walker, Ernst, and especially Pence, who   tied themselves more closely to the Manhattan billionaire during   the convention. ’ ’   ”The advantage is for him that he differentiated himself from   Trump,” Mackowiak said, noting that, depending on how the   election plays out, that could prove to be a disadvantage. ’ ’   ”Cruz will likely have the largest war chest after raising $30 or   $40 million for reelection and probably using a third of it,” he   said, adding that he will have huge lists, name recognition, and   strength in early states like Iowa and South Carolina as major   helping points. ”There’’s a chance things go south for him in a   way with how things play out in the Senate and if he gets blamed   for Trump losing.” ’ ’   ”There’’s a line in the movie ’’Enemy of the State’’ where Gene   Hackman says to Will Smith, ’’you’’re either incredibly smart or   incredibly stupid,’’ and that line probably applies right now to   Cruz.” ’ ’   Should Trump lose in November, Mackowiak added that there’’s   a ”strong chance” Cruz begins the race as the frontrunner. ’ ”   Ned Ryun, a grassroots conservative activist and founder of   American Majority, told Business Insider that the Texas   Republican lost some respect from him after he failed   to endorse Trump in his RNC speech. He thought that   could cause major problems for him down the road, even adding   that members of the Texas delegation warned him of a potential   primary opponent in Cruz’s 2018 reelection bid for the Senate. ” ’   Cruz will also need more than his grassroots backing in 2016 if   he wants to be successful in a future run, he said. ’ ’   ”He has to build a coalition that is bigger,” he said. ”He has a   ceiling. I mean, when Sheldon Adelson is refusing to meet with   him after Wednesday and granted, I have my own problems with the   establishment, but you have to reach out the olive branch with   establishment people.” ’ ’   ”I see him as more of a Santorum figure,” mentioning former Sen.   Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania’’s presidential bids in 2012 and   2016  —   with the former proving much more successful. ’ ’  ’ ’   Ryun is big on Pence’’s chances in the future, and said he ”struck   the right tone” with his Wednesday night address to the   convention. ’ ’   Mackowiak as well thinks Pence will be one of the more   interesting to follow, now that he’’s ” ” through the   important moments as a   candidate: The   announcement, his address at the convention, and the     debate. ’ ’   ”As long as he does the debate reasonably well and doesn’’t make   any mistakes moving forward, I think he’’ll have a large national   following while being able to appeal to the Trump support base   while still being a Reagan conservative,” he said. ”He’’s in as   strong a position as anyone else.” ’ ”   And he’ll be in the White House should Trump win. ” ’   But, should Trump lose the election  —   Pence is in a really   precarious place. ’ ’   ”He will be a former elected official. He’’ll have a much less   realistic opportunity to raise money and get media,” Mackowiak   said. ”So how does he stay relevant for those two years before   the presidential cycle begins? Everybody has challenges.” ’ ’   He added that Cruz and Pence ”both have the most to gain   depending on how things play out.” ’ ’   ”I think everyone else is kind of in that second category,” he   said, noting Cotton, Ernst, Rubio, and Govs. Nikki Haley of South   Carolina and John Kasich of Ohio. ’ ’   For Ernst, the Iowa senator who is also a combat veteran, a   mishap with convention scheduling one the day she spoke bumped   her out of a primetime slot. Fellow Iowa politicians were   ”disappointed” with what transpired, as Ernst gave her     speech to a nearly empty hall. ’ ’   ”I think you could make a case that Joni Ernst got very little   buzz because the convention on the first night was so screwed up   and she played to an empty hall,” Mackowiak said. ”And so it’’s   hard to even remember one thing she said, whereas if she played   to a full hall in primetime that really could’’ve become a big   moment.” ’ ’   Rubio, who both men believe is looking to run in the next cycle,   didn’’t inspire much enthusiasm with his scripted video. Mackowiak   called it ” .” ’ ’  ’ ’   Cotton, the youngest member of the Senate, is someone many   believe has a presidential future. While admitting he’’s ”bullish”   on the senator, Mackowiak said he doesn’’t ”know that he got much   out of this convention.” ’ ”   Asked about Cotton’s presidential chances on Tuesday during a   gaggle with reporters at a Cleveland restaurant, Sen. Chuck   Grassley of Iowa praised his grasp of national security. ” ’   ”If that’’s a major issue when he decides to run for office, he   should run,” he said. ’ ’   The Iowa Republican was asked about Ernst, Cruz, and the rest of   the potential 2020 or 2024 field. He said he’’s not ”seeing any   more jockeying for 2020 than I saw for 2016 or 2012.” ’ ”   Pressed again, Grassley, who has served in the Senate since 1981,   made a frank point about future elections involving his Senate   colleague’s aspirations. ” ’   ”Ever since I’’ve been in the United States Senate, aside from two   who were foreign born, I don’’t think I met any [senators] who   didn’’t think they could be president,” he said. ’