’  ’ ’   Ten miles south of Tel Aviv, I stand on a catwalk over two   concrete reservoirs the size of football fields and watch water   pour into them from a massive pipe emerging from the sand. ’ ’   The pipe is so large I could walk through it standing upright,   were it not full of Mediterranean seawater pumped from an intake   a mile offshore. ’ ’   “Now, that’s a pump!” Edo   shouts to me over the din of   the motors, grinning with undisguised awe at the scene before us. ’ ’   The reservoirs beneath us contain several feet of sand through   which the seawater filters before making its way to a vast metal   hangar, where it is transformed into enough drinking water to   supply 1. 5 million people. ’ ’   We are standing above the new Sorek desalination plant, the   largest   desal facility in the world, and we are   staring at Israel’s salvation. Just a few years ago, in the   depths of its worst drought in at least 900 years, Israel was   running out of water. Now it has a surplus. That remarkable   turnaround was accomplished through  but the biggest impact came from a   new wave of desalination plants. ’ ’     who recently joined Israel’s Zuckerberg Institute for   Water Research after completing his postdoc work at Yale   University, is an expert on biofouling, which has always been an   Achilles’ heel of desalination and one of the reasons it has been   considered a last resort. Desal works by pushing saltwater into   membranes containing microscopic pores. The water gets through,   while the larger salt molecules are left behind. But   microorganisms in seawater quickly colonize the membranes and   block the pores, and controlling them requires periodic costly   and   cleaning. But   and colleagues    using porous lava stone to capture the microorganisms   before they reach the membranes. It’s just one of many   breakthroughs in membrane technology that have made desalination   much more efficient. Israel now gets 55 percent of its domestic   water from desalination, and that has helped to turn one of the   world’s driest countries into the unlikeliest of water giants. ’ ’   Driven by necessity, Israel is learning to squeeze more out of a   drop of water than any country on Earth, and much of that   learning is happening at the Zuckerberg Institute, where   researchers have pioneered new techniques in drip irrigation,   water treatment and desalination. They have developed resilient   well systems for African villages and biological digesters than   can halve the water usage of most homes. ’ ’   The institute’s original mission was to improve life in Israel’s     Negev Desert, but the lessons look increasingly   applicable to the entire Fertile Crescent. “The Middle East is   drying up,” says Osnat Gillor, a professor at the Zuckerberg   Institute who studies the use of recycled wastewater on crops.   “The only country that isn’t suffering acute water stress is   Israel. ” ’ ’   That water stress has been a major factor in the turmoil tearing   apart the Middle East, but   believes that Israel’s   solutions can help its parched neighbors, too  —   and in the   process, bring together old enemies in common cause. ’ ’     acknowledges that water will likely be a source of   conflict in the Middle East in the future. “But I believe water   can be a bridge, through joint ventures,” he says. “And one of   those ventures is desalination. ” ’ ’    ’ ’   In 2008, Israel teetered on the edge of catastrophe. A     drought had scorched the Fertile Crescent, and   Israel’s largest source of freshwater, the Sea of Galilee, had   dropped to within inches of the “black line” at which   irreversible salt infiltration would flood the lake and ruin it   forever. Water restrictions were imposed, and many farmers   . ’ ’   Their counterparts in Syria fared much worse. As the drought   intensified and the water table plunged, Syria’s farmers chased   it, drilling wells 100, 200, then 500 meters (300, 700, then   1, 600 feet) down in a literal race to the bottom. Eventually, the   wells ran dry and Syria’s farmland collapsed in an epic dust   storm. More than a million farmers joined massive shantytowns on   the outskirts of Aleppo, Homs, Damascus and other cities in a   futile attempt to find work and purpose. ’ ’   And that, according to the authors of  a 2015 paper   in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences,   was the tinder that burned Syria to the ground. “The rapidly   growing urban peripheries of Syria,” they wrote, “marked by   illegal settlements, overcrowding, poor infrastructure,   unemployment, and crime, were neglected by the Assad government   and became the heart of the developing unrest. ” ’ ’   Similar stories are playing out across the Middle East, where   drought and agricultural collapse have produced a lost generation   with no prospects and simmering resentments. Iran, Iraq and   Jordan all face water catastrophes. Water is driving the entire   region to desperate acts. ’ ’   Except Israel. Amazingly, Israel has more water than it needs.   The turnaround started in 2007, when   toilets and   showerheads were installed nationwide and the national water   authority built innovative water treatment systems that recapture   86 percent of the water that goes down the drain and use it for   irrigation  —   vastly more than the    country   in the world, Spain, which recycles 19 percent. ’ ’   But even with those measures, Israel still needed about 1. 9   billion cubic meters (2. 5 billion cubic yards) of freshwater per   year and was getting just 1. 4 billion cubic meters (1. 8 billion   cubic yards) from natural sources. That       (   ) shortfall was why the Sea of Galilee was   draining like an unplugged tub and why the country was about to   lose its farms. ’ ’   Enter desalination. The Ashkelon plant, in 2005, provided 127   million cubic meters (166 million cubic yards) of water. Hadera,   in 2009, put out another 140 million cubic meters (183 million   cubic yards). And now Sorek, 150 million cubic meters (196   million cubic yards). All told, desal plants can provide some 600   million cubic meters (785 million cubic yards) of water a year,   and more are on the way. ’ ’   The Sea of Galilee is fuller. Israel’s farms are thriving. And   the country faces a previously unfathomable question: What to do   with its extra water? ’ ’   Inside Sorek, 50, 000 membranes enclosed in vertical white   cylinders, each 4 feet high and 16 inches wide, are whirring like   jet engines. The whole thing feels like a throbbing spaceship   about to blast off. The cylinders contain sheets of plastic   membranes wrapped around a central pipe, and the membranes are   stippled with pores less than a hundredth the diameter of a human   hair. Water shoots into the cylinders at a pressure of 70   atmospheres and is pushed through the membranes, while the   remaining brine is returned to the sea. ’ ’   Desalination used to be an expensive energy hog, but the kind of   advanced technologies being employed at Sorek have been a game   changer. Water produced by desalination costs just a third of   what it did in the 1990s. Sorek can produce a thousand liters of   drinking water for 58 cents. Israeli households pay about US$30 a   month for their water  —   similar to households in most U. S.   cities, and far less than Las Vegas (US$47) or Los Angeles   (US$58). ’ ’   The International Desalination Association claims that  and that number is quickly rising. IDE, the   Israeli company that built Ashkelon, Hadera and Sorek, recently   finished the Carlsbad desalination plant in Southern California,   a close cousin of its Israel plants, and it has many more in the   works. Worldwide, the equivalent of six additional Sorek plants   are coming online every year. The desalination era is here. ’ ’   What excites   the most is the opportunity for water   diplomacy. Israel supplies the West Bank with water, as required   by the 1995 Oslo II Accords, but the Palestinians still receive   far less than they need. Water has been entangled with other   negotiations in the   peace process, but now that more is   at hand, many observers see the opportunity to depoliticize it.     has ambitious plans for a Water Knows No Boundaries   conference in 2018, which will bring together water scientists   from Egypt, Turkey, Jordan, Israel, the West Bank and Gaza for a   meeting of the minds. ’ ’   Even more ambitious is the US$900 million  a   joint venture between Israel and Jordan to build a large   desalination plant on the Red Sea, where they share a border, and   divide the water among Israelis, Jordanians and the Palestinians.   The brine discharge from the plant will be piped 100 miles north   through Jordan to replenish the Dead Sea, which has been dropping   a meter per year since the two countries began diverting the only   river that feeds it in the 1960s. By 2020, these old foes will be   drinking from the same tap. ’ ’   On the far end of the Sorek plant,   and I get to share a   tap as well. Branching off from the main line where the Sorek   water enters the Israeli grid is a simple spigot, a paper cup   dispenser beside it. I open the tap and drink cup after cup of   what was the Mediterranean Sea 40 minutes ago. It tastes cold,   clear and miraculous. ’ ’   The contrasts couldn’t be starker. A few miles from here, water   disappeared and civilization crumbled. Here, a galvanized   civilization created water from nothingness. As   and I   drink deep, and the climate sizzles, I wonder which of these   stories will be the exception, and which the rule. ’