’  ’ ’   Nineteen people were feared dead and 25 injured after an attack   by a   man at a facility for the disabled in Japan   early on Tuesday, the national broadcaster NHK reported. ’ ”   The police in Sagamihara, in Japan’s Kanagawa prefecture, about   25 miles southwest of Tokyo, have arrested Satoshi Uematsu, a      former employee at the facility, Japanese media   reported. ” ’   A prefectural official said 19 victims were ”in a state of   cardiac arrest” and 25 people were wounded, 20 of them seriously.   Japanese media had reported earlier that up to 45 people may have   been wounded. Japanese officials often describe people as being   in cardiac arrest before they are officially declared dead. ’ ’   They said the staff called the police at 2:30 a. m. local time   with reports of a man armed with a knife on the grounds of the   Tsukui   facility. ’ ’   The 7.  facility, established by the local government and   nestled on the wooded bank of the Sagami River, cares for people   with a wide range of disabilities, NHK said, quoting an   unidentified employee. ’ ’’ ’   Media reports said the man, wearing a black   did not have   a knife when he turned himself in at a nearby police station. The   police said they were still investigating possible motives. ’ ’   Asahi Shimbun reported that the suspect was quoted by the police   as saying: ”I want to get rid of the disabled from this world.” ’ ’   Fifteen people were confirmed dead, while four were in cardiac   arrest, the media reports said. The wounded were taken to at   least six hospitals in the western Tokyo area. ’ ’     emergency squads responded to the attack, Kyodo   reported. ’ ’   A man identified as the father of a patient in the facility told   NHK he learned about the attack on the radio and had received no   information from the center. ’ ’   ”I’’m very worried but they won’’t let me in,” he said, standing   just outside a cordon of yellow   tape. ’ ”   Kyodo, citing the facility’s website, said the center had a   maximum capacity of 150 people. ” ’   Such mass killings are rare in Japan. Eight children were stabbed   to death at their school by a former janitor in 2001. ’ ’     ’ ’   (Additional reporting by Eric Beech and Jon Herskovitz in   Washington; Writing by Lincoln Feast; Editing by Sandra Maler,   Grant McCool and Paul Tait) ’