’  ’ ’   Your success in a salary negotiation often comes down to how you   frame your request. ’ ’   Using four simple words  —   when,   I, feel, and need    —   could mean the difference between an open   communication with your boss and your requests falling on deaf   ears. ’ ’   Dr. Michael McNulty, a master trainer from  and founder   of  tells Business Insider that   those who want to express a concern in any relationship should do   so in a positive manner, avoid blaming language, use mostly ”I”   statements, and discuss your perspective, feelings, and needs,   which is called the ”gentle startup” technique. ’ ’   It looks something like: ”When X happens or   happened, I feel Y, and I need   Z.” ’ ’   Here’’s how you might ask for a raise using the ”gentle startup”   technique: ’ ’’ ’”When I look at my credentials and how hard I am   working and compare my salary to others in my field . .. ’ ’   ”I really feel discouraged.   ”I feel worried about my family’’s financial   future.   ”I feel kind of sad, because I want to stay   here.   ”I like the people and the company.   ”I do not feel like my contributions are seen or   understood.   ”I feel resentful. ’ ’   ”I need my salary to be reviewed.   ”I need a higher salary.   ”I need the opportunity for bonuses or profit   sharing.” ’ ’   ”This technique is so helpful in relationships of all kinds,”   McNulty says. ”It helps to guard against the tendency that people   feel to justify their feelings and needs so much so that they   come off as critical or blaming to the other person before they   are able to express what they feel and ask for what they want.” ’ ’ show that the parts of the brain that handle   logic and reason go to sleep when people begin to feel attacked,   while the parts of the brain responsible for the      response light up. ’ ’   As Harvard Business School lecturers John Neffinger and Matthew   Kohut observe in the book ”,” a   discussion is no longer an exercise in logic and reasoning when   it becomes an argument. ’ ’   One surefire way to make your boss feel criticized and defensive   and ultimately shut down the discussion before it ever begins is   to use what relationship experts call a ”harsh startup.” ’ ’   According to McNulty, in a salary negotiation this might sound   like: ”You and this company just don’’t seem to care at all about   my needs. How am I supposed to support a family on this? Who   knows how anyone gets a raise around here anyway? If something   does not change, I am gone!” ’ ’   In romantic relationships, ”if partners start a conversation in a   negative manner, 97% of the time that conversation will end   negatively,” McNulty says. And as John Gottman, a psychologist,   couples counselor, and relationships researcher for 40 years,   posited in his book ”,” the same principles that make marriages   work also hold true for many other kinds of relationships, like   work relationships. ’ ’   One way to avoid a harsh startup is to ask for a raise as soon as   . This may seem   like simple advice, but . ’ ’   The goal is to express your needs sooner to avoid     emotions getting the better of you. ’ ’  ’ ’Get updates in your inbox.’ ’Subscribe to Instant MBA and never miss an update!’