’  ’ ”   PHILADELPHIA  —   Many of the conservatives who watched with dismay   as the Republican Party nominated Donald Trump have now watched   with amazement as Democrats   some of Republicans’   favorite themes at the Democratic National Convention. ” ”   Democrats’ thinking was clear: We’re the only political party   left for   so we’d better make sure we have something to   offer voters on both sides of the aisle. ” ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tAmerican exceptionalism and greatness, shining city on hill, founding documents,   ’re trying to take all our stuff’t’t” ’   There was a clear choice about tone, especially on the last two   days of the convention: Speakers  for getting into   bed with Donald Trump. They would mock Trump and make   the case that conservatives should be embarrassed and ashamed   that their party nominated him  —   and should look across the aisle   at a party that shares more of their goals and values than they   may have realized. ’ ”   So the Democratic convention had retired military officers making   the case for Hillary Clinton’s steady hand as commander in chief,   paeans to Ronald Reagan, and optimistic messages about the   indispensability and exceptional nature of America. ” ’   It had Michael Bloomberg  on many things but would be voting for her because   she was ”a sane, competent person”  —   unlike that other guy. ’ ”   A video introducing Hillary Clinton’s     speech even went out of its way to praise George W. Bush for his   support for New York’s    rebuilding efforts. ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tA speech to make Republican elites feel sickened (as they should be) by what their party has nominated. ’t’t’ ”   This was a clear play for the votes of conservatives and,   especially, moderates. But it doesn’t mean Democrats were   lurching to the center. Rather than imitating Republicans,   Democrats deftly combined Republicans’ tropes with their own. ” ’   Perhaps the most amazing example of this  —   one that I believe   will be discussed for decades as an iconic political moment  —      a Muslim   immigrant and father of a US Army captain killed in action in   Iraq. He took Trump to task for his demonization of Muslims and   plans to bar them from entering the US. ’ ’   Khan demanded to know whether Trump had ever even read the   Constitution and then whipped out his own pocket version,   offering to lend it to Trump. ’ ”   You’ve got a lot of things to honor and celebrate there at once:   founding documents, military service, religious pluralism,   immigration. It was a moment designed to appeal to the left and   the right  —   at least, the principled parts of the right that   truly care about religious freedom and not just Christian special   pleading  —   all at once. ” ”   In some ways, this was the most   Democratic convention   of my lifetime. A goal of the convention was to convince leftists   that Clinton is far enough left to earn their vote. Most of the   Monday lineup was a celebration of Bernie Sanders and his   movement, with lots of bragging about how many of Sanders’ ideas   got into the platform, pushing the party leftward. ” ’   But the appeals to the center and the far left were not a   contradiction. The convention sent the message that Clinton is   the candidate for liberals and moderates and leftists and   conservatives who feel horrified by Donald Trump, because that is   what she is. ’ ”   Clinton doesn’t agree with all those people about everything, and   she disagrees with some of them about a lot of things. But she   will be a fairly normal president who will uphold the norms   ordinarily observed by both parties and allow our republic to   continue functioning. ” ”   That’s a low bar, but it is one the other party’s nominee can’t   clear. And that is why Clinton could convincingly hold a   convention that promised to be so many things to so many people  —     and why so many conservatives sounded relieved by the olive   branch the convention offered. ”