’  ’ ’   Democrats spent four days trashing GOP presidential nominee   Donald Trump at their convention, but it seems that Trump has   taken special issue with one speaker in particular: billionaire   entrepreneur and former New York City Mayor Mike Bloomberg. ’ ”   After Bloomberg questioned Trump’s business acumen and   called him a con man during  Trump started referring to Bloomberg   as  reusing a moniker once   reserved for . ” ’   Trump also made a clear reference to Bloomberg at a : ” ’ ’   Bloomberg is not a Democrat. Nor is he running for office. But he   gets the threat of physical violence and a fun nickname because   someone like Bloomberg offending Trump is especially offensive to   Trump. ’ ”   Any New Yorker can tell you why. It’s because Trump has spent   decades ignoring one of the cardinal rules of being publicly rich   in this town: If you must flaunt your money, then you must also   give it away in large sums. ” ”   If you don’t, then you’ll spend your life feeling like an   outsider, building resentment against those who should be your   set. And that’s exactly what Trump has done. ” ”   While America has spent decades seeing Trump as a billionaire   entrepreneur with a lux lifestyle, New York’s elite have spent   the same amount of time seeing him very differently  —   as a tacky   sideshow with no regard for social norms. ” ”   No, this isn’t Edith Wharton’s New York City, but there are still   rules. For one, if you want to attend everyone’s fancy charity   parties, then you’ve got to make a donation. If you don’t make   the donation, then prepare for everyone to stare daggers at you,   to worry about your financial situation, to judge you. ” ’   If you don’’t give, then eventually people will invite you to   fewer events. They’’ll consider you especially rude for going to   the ones that you have been invited to out of politeness. That is   when you are truly rejected by people who, ideally, since you’’re   a ”billionaire, too,” should be your peers. ’ ”   And that’s when the gauche things you do as a rich person are   suddenly inexcusable. People may see you at parties, but they do   not really see you. They see a clown, a joke, a fraud. ” ”   This isn’t something that started just this year, when Trump   claimed to have donated $1 million to a veterans organization and   was . He . ” ’   Trump has a   history of pledging to make donations   and then reneging in this town, and in quiet whispers anyone   on Wall Street will tell you that. ’ ”   The media has looked into Trump’s charity history,   too.  (emphasis added): ” ’  ’ ”   So enter Bloomberg, a man whose name is uttered with the utmost   respect among New York City’s elite. He was the   city’s mayor, and he’s dedicated his vast fortune to      among other charitable causes. ” ”   Whether or not everyone agrees with his politics, his generosity   is unquestionable. This is a man who writes $100 million checks   for Bill and Melinda Gates’ charitable work while doing his own.   This is a man who has given away  to those less fortunate. ” ’   This is in sharp contrast to Trump, who, according to   The Washington Post, has given no money to his own   foundation since 2008. ’ ’   Over the years, Trump has yearned for Bloomberg’’s acceptance as   he has been for the acceptance of others in Bloomberg’’s cohort.   Again, he considers himself, as a fellow billionaire, part of   their world. Back when Bloomberg was considering a run for   president himself,  ” ’ ’  ’ ”   Trump was never to be friends with the likes of Michael   Bloomberg. That fact was stunningly clear to New Yorkers as early   as 1990, when Spy Magazine  —   a now defunct publication started by   a captain of New York society, Graydon Carter, now Vanity Fair   editor  —   played a nasty trick on a bunch of New York City’s   wealthiest. ” ”   To find out how many of the city’s rich actually acted quite   poorly, Spy sent a bunch of checks in very small amounts  —   $1. 11,   $2, $0. 16  —   to dozens of people from Cher to author Kurt   Vonnegut, from media mogul Rupert Murdoch to     billionaire Henry Kravis. ” ’   Carter and his partner,  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   This understanding of Trump’s relationship with those in his   social class should also provide some clarity as to why Wall   Street  to Trump’s campaign. You   see, it’s like this: He never gave to their charity cases. ” ”   So they’re not giving to his. ” ’Democrats spent four days trashing GOP. ..’