’  ’ ”   A new TV ad glorifying China’s Communist Party has gone viral   online in China. ” ’   In celebration of the party’’s 95th anniversary,     China Central Television (CCTV) produced the party’s first     TV ad, titled ”Who am I.” ’ ’   The   video opens with the question, ”Who am I? What kind   of person am I?” ’ ”   It then shows six party members from all walks of life  —   each   going beyond the call of duty, before concluding, “I’m the   Communist Party. I’m always by your side. ” ” ’   Featured in the ad are a student who is the last to leave after   tidying up a classroom, a   cleaning the roads   before dawn, and a police officer directing traffic while   weathering a thunderstorm. The scenes play out over emotional   piano music. ’ ’   The video was filmed in Shanghai, the home base of the Chinese   Communist Party in its early days, and the production took nearly   three weeks to complete,  ’ ’   The advertising is meant to illustrate socialist values and   communicate the Communist Party’s beliefs through “fresh language   and rich images,” . ’ ’   The video was first broadcast on TV in June, but it did not gain   much popularity until Tuesday, when the ad was shared by the   Communist Youth League on Sina Weibo, a service akin to Twitter. ’ ’   As the ad begins making waves, reaction has been mixed. ’ ’   ”My heart melted as I watched,” said one observer quoted by    China’’s   outlet. ”Can’’t believe I just   became a fan of the Party.” ’ ’   Others pointed out that the virtues portrayed in the ad, such as   selflessness and kindness, are not necessarily exclusive   qualities of the Communist Party. ’ ’   “It is not about the party. It is about   people,” a   Weibo user  online. ’ ’   Others gave the ad their own twist, posting comments like “I am   the one who is best at deleting posts,” one said, sarcastically. ’ ’   According to  others quipped, ”I am the one who is best at   talking,” ”I am the one who shouts the loudest slogans.” Censors   have removed some of those comments. ’ ’   The video was also posted on YouTube, which prompted uncensored   comments that mainland Chinese people cannot access. ’ ’   ”There’’s no point in creating a political ad because people don’’t   have the right to vote or elect,” said one YouTube user. ’ ’   Another comment suggested replacing the stars in the ad with   imprisoned former   Communist Party officials such as   Bo Xilai, Zhou Yongkang, Xu Caihou, and Guo Boxiong. ’ ”   Despite divided reaction online, the video has earned more than   20 million hits on Tencent Video, one of China’s largest video   sites, . ” ’ ’