’  ’ ’   President Barack Obama recently  aimed at addressing the burgeoning opioid crisis   in the US. ’ ”   While the law was undoubtedly a step forward for a gridlocked   Congress, it won’t affect one of the crisis’ most intractable   problems  —   the skyrocketing price of naloxone, a drug that   instantly reverses overdoses. ” ’   A report from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention   in January revealed that drug overdose deaths  totaling 47, 055 people. Opioids   were involved in 60% of those deaths. ’ ’   Frequently referred to as an ”antidote” for opioid overdoses,   naloxone has seen drastic price increases in recent years,   according to information provided by  a     company. A popular injectable version of the   drug has gone from $0. 92 a dose to more than $15 a dose over the   last decade. An   version is up to more than $2, 000 a   dose. ’ ”   On the market since 1971, naloxone works by blocking opioid drugs   from interacting with the brain’s receptors, counteracting the   drugs’ dangerous side effects, like slow respiration, coma, and   death, during an overdose. The drug almost instantly pulls an   overdose victim back to sobriety and has   —   and almost none if   mistakenly administered to patients not suffering an overdose. ” ’   The price increases, however, have made affording the drug   difficult for community organizations, which provide naloxone for   free to drug users, their family members, and other nonmedical   personnel. ’ ’   These organizations along with pharmacies,     departments, and   treatment facilities prevented    from 1996 to June 2014 by providing   naloxone, according to a survey of 136 such organizations   conducted by the  a national advocacy group. That number   is also likely lower than the actual number of overdoses   prevented, according to the survey. ’ ”   Many see the drug’s price hikes as unwarranted and are frustrated   with the lack of access. ” ’   ”We’’re not talking about a limited commodity. Naloxone is a   medicine that is almost as cheap as sterile sodium chloride  —     salt water,” Dan Bigg, the executive director of the Chicago   Recovery Alliance, an outreach organization that has been   providing naloxone to drug users for nearly 20 years, told   Business Insider. ’ ’   In June, Sens. Claire McCaskill, a Democrat from Missouri, and   Susan Collins, a Republican from Maine,  to the five pharmaceutical companies that   produce naloxone  —   Amphastar, Pfizer, Adapt, Kaléo, and Mylan  —     asking for an explanation of the recent price changes. ’ ’   ”At the same time this epidemic is killing tens of thousands of   Americans a year, we’’re seeing the price of naloxone go up by   1000% or more,” McCaskill wrote. ”Maybe there’’s a great reason   for the price increases, but given the   gravity of   this epidemic and the need for this drug, I think we have to   demand some answers.” ’ ’   All five pharmaceutical companies that produce naloxone have seen   price hikes in recent years or, for the newer entrants such as   Adapt, priced their product far above the industry average   several years ago. ’ ”   As of January 2015, Amphastar’s version of naloxone was  according to Fierce Pharma, a     news site. That follows a price increase   from $17 to $33 a dose in October 2014, according to data   provided by Truven Health Analytics. In 2001, the price was just   $12 a dose. ” ”   As of October 2014  —   the most recent time for which prices are   available  —   Hospira’s version of naloxone was $15. 80 a dose.   That’s up from $0. 92 a dose in 2005, according to Truven Health   Analytics. The price of Hospira’s version of naloxone hit a peak   of $21. 90 a dose in January 2014. Pfizer  last year. ” ’   Meanwhile, Kaléo has reportedly raised the price of its naloxone   product, Evzio, to  following price   increases to $1, 875 in February and $375 in November 2015. Evzio,   which is an   that works like an EpiPen and is   specifically created for use by people without medical training,   was introduced at $287. 50 for each   injector in July   2014, according to Truven. ’ ”   Adapt’s Narcan, a   form of the drug released in   February, costs $63 for each   spray unit, though it   does sell the product for approximately half that price to   government agencies, community organizations, and patients   without insurance, Matt Ruth, Adapt’s chief commercial officer,   told Business Insider. ” ’   Further exacerbating the price problem, according to Bigg, is   that most organizations advocate providing overdose victims with   multiple doses of naloxone because opioid drugs last longer than   naloxone. Such a practice is necessary for safety, but means that   these prices only give a partial picture of how difficult it   currently is to fund such a program. ’ ’   The price increases, combined with the increase in demand, have    from $21. 3 million in 2011   to $81. 9 million last year, according to numbers from     company IMS Health and cited by The Los   Angeles Times. ’ ’   Amphastar, one of the two producers of the     injectable naloxone, saw a revenue increase of 4% in the first   quarter of 2016 compared with the first quarter of 2015,   according to a press release. The company attributed that   increase largely ”to an increase in sales of naloxone to $10. 3   million from $6. 7 million.” ’ ’   All prices stem from purchasing directly from the manufacturer,   not the list price, which is higher because of distributor   markup. The list price is paid primarily by consumers purchasing   naloxone without a prescription. ’ ’  ’ ’   According to Bigg, while price increases have been consistent for   20 years, the price hikes jumped in frequency and volume in 2008   after several manufacturers stopped producing the drug, leaving   Hospira and Amphastar as the sole manufacturers of naloxone. ’ ’   Mylan and Kaléo  in 2014, and Adapt followed suit at the   beginning of this year. ’ ’   Only Mylan, Amphastar, and Hospira, however, make injectable   versions  —   by far the cheapest forms of the drug. Adapt and Kaléo   make the more expensive nasal spray and     respectively. ’ ’   Bigg says the limited number of producers has kept the price high   and increasing. ’ ’   But some think the price hikes are a response to a big uptick in   demand and point to new laws and programs designed to equip   police officers and first responders with naloxone, as well as   increase access for the general public. ’ ’   ”Naloxone used to be an item purchased by emergency rooms and   ambulances   …     Now that   organizations have pushed   for laws requiring everyone to carry it, the demand has gone up   exponentially,” Tessie Castillo, the advocacy and communication   coordinator at the North Carolina Harm Reduction Coalition, told   Business Insider. Pharmaceutical companies ”know that they can   make more money because of the demand, so they try to.” ’ ”   Over the last couple of years, more than 30 states have acted to   increase naloxone access, prescriptions, and use. In 2014, then   US Attorney General Eric Holder  to train and equip   personnel with naloxone. Such laws and policies were pushed by   organizations like Castillo’s. ” ’   Daniel Raymond, the policy director of  told Business Insider that his organization has   noticed increases in the price of naloxone in recent months, but   he said he’’s skeptical that pharmaceutical companies were   ”profiteering” off the opioid crisis. ’ ’   Instead, he attributed the increase to broader dynamics ”playing   out across the pharmaceutical spectrum.” ’ ’   ”If naloxone was the only pharmaceutical product that was seeing   price increases, I would be very suspicious,” Raymond said. ”But   because this is playing out across the sector   …     it’’s part of a   larger trend that the whole healthcare industry and policymakers   are struggling to get a handle on.” ’ ’   A Food and Drug Administration analysis of the naloxone market in   2015  to a general trend across the   pharmaceutical industry for generic injectable medicines. ’ ’  ’ ’   While a statement from Pfizer, on behalf of Hospira, did not   respond directly to questions about recent price increases, the   company emphasized that it believes it has priced naloxone   ”responsibly,” taking into consideration both ”sensitivity to the   need for the product” and ”the investments necessary to produce     generic drugs as well as ensure appropriate   distribution through licensed medical professionals.” ’ ’   The company further touted its commitment to the naloxone market   after other manufacturers ceased production. ’ ”   Amphastar  because of rising   manufacturing costs and investments made in developing its own   intranasal naloxone product, Bill Peters, the company’s chief   financial officer, told The Los Angeles Times. ” ’   Kaléo points to the ease of use of its product, the Evzio     as justification for its high price. Evzio’’s     system provides ”” to aid administration in an   emergency. ’ ’   ”The price of Evzio is reflective of its innovation, years of   extensive research to ensure the device is easy to use and   reliable and to ensure the broadest access to this potentially     product,” Kaléo spokesman Lora Grassilli said in a   statement. She added that Evzio is the first     naloxone product specifically created for those without medical   training. ’ ’   Ruth, the chief commercial officer for Adapt, told Business   Insider that Adapt researched the market prior to setting the   price of its Narcan nasal spray in February, which he says has   been ”well received so far.” Ruth further pointed to Adapt’’s   awareness and access initiatives as reasons for Narcan’’s higher   price point. ’ ’   ”Those initiatives aren’’t free,” Ruth said. ”We are looking to do   this as efficiently as possible and charge an affordable and   responsible rate for patients and organizations alike. We believe   we’’ve done that.” ’ ’   Both products are increasingly being pushed as the naloxone   product of choice for police officers and the general public   alike. ’ ’   While Bigg and Castillo acknowledged that Evzio and Narcan are   easier to use than a syringe and vial, both were skeptical that   such advancements in delivery justified their considerably higher   price tag. ’ ”   The Chicago Recovery Alliance staff has been using syringes and   vials since its inception, according to Bigg, who said that in   7, 500 reports on overdose reversals, they’ve never had someone   tell them that they couldn’t or didn’t understand how to use the   syringe. ” ’   ”We’’ve had no problems with syringes. The syringes are really   ” Castillo said. ’ ’   Amphastar has responded to the criticism over naloxone pricing   through ”increased discounting and rebates.” In an Amphastar   press release on 2016’’s   financials, the company   noted that naloxone pricing was down compared with the previous   quarter. ’ ’  ’ ’   Many large organizations like the Chicago Recovery Alliance and   government agencies have been insulated to some extent from the   rising prices, thanks to special discounts and donations from   naloxone producers as well as grants to pay for such products. ’ ”   Kaléo, for example, has donated 150, 000 Evzio   to       departments, and nonprofits since   the product’s approval in April 2014. ” ’   In January, Adapt announced a program in partnership with the   Clinton Foundation  in the US that   asks for it. Adapt has also donated 50, 000 doses of Narcan to   various organizations. ’ ’   Bigg and Castillo said that their organizations, which provide   naloxone to those in need for free, would not be able to exist   without such generosity on the part of pharmaceutical companies.   According to Bigg, many police departments have money to pay for   naloxone because of asset seizures, which confiscate the alleged   proceeds or instruments related to crime. Many federal, state,   and local government agencies have also been given grants to pay   for naloxone. ’ ’   While these measures have generally increased the availability of   naloxone, Castillo says the result is that those hardest hit by   the high prices are smaller   organizations or   community programs that don’’t have the clout of larger government   agencies or the renown of a large nonprofit like the Harm   Reduction Coalition. Castillo says that she has spoken to ”lots   and lots” of organizations and programs that have closed in   recent years or failed to get started because of naloxone’’s high   price tag. ’ ’   ”The companies have been pretty good about providing us with   deals and discounts, but that’’s just to us. That is not a normal   experience for most organizations that are trying to buy   naloxone,” Castillo said. ’ ’   That system has left organizations like Castillo’’s at the mercy   of pharmaceutical companies’’ generosity. When a pharmaceutical   company changes policy  —   such as earlier this year when Kaléo   suspended its charitable donations for the year because of   ”overwhelming demand”  —   it can be devastating. ’ ’   Many of the companies have programs to ensure either lower prices   or no cost for patients. Kaléo has a ”” that provides Evzio to people with commercial   insurance at no cost. The program allows uninsured people with   financial difficulties to request Evzio at no cost. ’ ’   Adapt’’s ”  pricing” charges approximately half of   its list price to community organizations, police departments,     organizations, and those without insurance. ’ ’   Numerous solutions to the price problem have been suggested. Bigg   believes that making naloxone available over the counter, as    would encourage more   manufacturers to enter the marketplace and drive down the price  —     an effort applauded by . In addition, he thinks that   once the FDA approves more naloxone products currently in   development, the price should come down as well. ’ ’   Castillo called for more consistent and transparent pricing,   discounts, and donations for all organizations  —   government and   community  —   that provide naloxone. ’ ’   Raymond suggested that one factor unique to naloxone makes it   difficult to rein in the price increases. ’ ’   The primary buyers ”are all purchasing individually in small   amounts so they don’’t have the leverage to bargain for   discounts,” Raymond said. He suggested a solution in the form of   a   program that could aggregate demand and push   suppliers to drop their prices. ’ ”   The demand for naloxone isn’t likely to go down anytime soon. ” ’   The law Obama signed on July 22, the Comprehensive Addiction and   Recovery Act, includes  to the   public, as well as to police officers and first responders. ’ ’   Another bill, which Congress is scheduled to vote on in the   coming weeks,  with every opioid   prescription they write. ’