’  ’ ’   Tesla held a grand opening for its $5 billion Gigafactory in   Nevada last week. ’ ”   This massive facility, which will have the largest footprint of   any building in the world when complete, is critical to achieving   CEO Elon Musk’s lofty goal of building 500, 000 vehicles annually   by 2018. ” ’   That many cars will require more   batteries than are   currently available. ’ ’   By all recent accounts, Gigafactory 1 is an impressive, huge,      space filled with industrial robots and   Tesla vehicles. The partnership with Panasonic and the state of   Nevada is slated to employ 6, 500 people. ’ ”   And it’s an integral means to an end for Musk’s overarching   vision, Tesla’s Master Plan: Accelerate the end of humanity’s   dependence on fossil fuels by attacking major challenges, such as   carbon emissions into the atmosphere, at a monumental scale. ” ”   But if Tesla is going to succeed with the Gigafactory, and the   future Gigafactories it want to build around the world, it needs   to overcome a problem  —   one that we’re familiar with from its   current factory, in Northern California. ” ’   Tesla has the capacity to build 500, 000 vehicles a year at its   Fremont, California, plant. But last year it barely managed to   build 50, 000. This year, it will probably struggle to build   80, 000 to 90, 000. Meanwhile, it has reservations for 375, 000   units of its forthcoming Model 3   car, which was   unveiled earlier this year and should arrive by 2017. ’ ’  ’ ”   This is the biggest mystery about Tesla: Why can’t the company   get better at building cars? ” ’   Any other major automaker with almost 400, 000   for a   vehicle that should be relatively simple to build would be   rolling sheet metal in a matter of months. ’ ’   Tesla’’s argument is that it has to improve its manufacturing   capabilities. It has made some moves to that end this year,   bringing on a  and proposing   that the Model 3 will be far simpler to construct than the Model   X SUV, the complicated design of which led Musk to admit that   Tesla had been guilty of ”hubris” in creating it and that they   probably shouldn’’t have built it the way it was engineered. ’ ’   We can give them the benefit of the doubt in this point. But we   should also note that with the opening of the Gigafactory, Tesla   has just added yet another manufacturing challenge to its already   overfull plate. ’ ”     batteries aren’t as difficult to construct as Tesla’s   vehicles. In theory, the Gigafactory’s output should be limited   only by time, physical scale, and the available lithium supply.   But that oversimplifies the problem, because Tesla will obviously   have to participate in managing Gigafactory production. ” ’  ’ ”   Tesla has thus far shown itself to be bad at managing production   (and making money, but that’s beside the point at this stage of   the company’s growth). ” ’   The past 50 years of the industrial economy have been ruled   production management philosophy called ”lean” production. ”Lean”   production was a system so perfected by Toyota that the rest of   the auto industry copied it. In fact, Tesla’’s factory used to be   a collaboration between Toyota and General Motors, called NUMMI,   to perfect these systems in the US. ’ ’   Tesla’’s approach is different  —   a throwback to the   era of   ”vertical integration,” symbolized by  where trains loaded   with iron ore rolled up to one side of the factory and finished   cars rolled out the other. ’ ”   Vertical integration enables Musk and Tesla to have control of   every aspect of production, but it also means that they’re   responsible for managing that production themselves, rather than   managing a system of producers who feed in to Tesla. ” ’  ’ ’   Tesla has had to operate this way because it is in an outlier in   car manufacturing. Electric vehicles are still unpopular. They   are, of course, exciting to onlookers, but consumers have yet to   shift to them in droves. Tesla is the only carmaker whose fate is   tied to the electric model. If it wants to get as big as it says   it can get, batteries are a limiting factor. ’ ’   Nobody else would even consider doing something as risky and     as the Gigafactory. They would assume a battery supply   chain would develop at some point, to service demand  —   if that   demand ever actually showed up. ’ ”   That’s the lean way. ” ’   The Gigafactory looks like it may propose fewer issues than   Tesla’’s car factory despite the Gigafactory’’s enormous scale.   It’’s going to be more like a printing plant than a car factory:   Once a   template is established, it’’s just a matter of   ensuring that the ”machine,” as Musk now calls it, can crank away   and make its targets. ’ ”   However, it is yet another manufacturing challenge for   Tesla, and the company’s history with that aspect of its business   has been checkered. Tesla has no trouble innovating. Its biggest   problems are with building those innovations at a scale that can   change the world. ” ’  ’ ’Tesla held a grand opening for its $5 billion. ..’