’  ’ ’   The restaurant industry is facing dire straits. ’ ’   Labor costs, one of the biggest expenses for the industry, are on   a steady rise.  and companies are  to get customers in the   door. ’ ’   Despite all this bad news, one thing is keeping the business   afloat: Food is cheap. ’ ”   Customers aren’t necessarily seeing the advantages of lower costs   in the food they’re being served, but the raw ingredients that   restaurants are using appear to be going lower. ” ’   For instance, steakhouse chain Texas Roadhouse cited ”commodity   deflation” of 6. 8% from the same quarter a year ago as a positive   factor in otherwise dismal earnings. ’ ’   ”We’’re pleased with our momentum through the first half of the   year, particularly as it relates to restaurant margins. Commodity   deflation has certainly been the biggest contributor in addition   to the benefit of sales growth,” said CFO Scott Colosi. ’ ’   Texas Roadhouse also projects deflation on these prices of 2. 5 to   3% over the next year. ’ ’   Part of the decline (certainly for a   company like   Texas Roadhouse) has been the drop in . Beef is still more   expensive than its historical average, but the pain is lessening   and helping to support the earnings of these restaurants. ’ ”   Cheesecake Factory CFO Douglas Benn also cited the company’s 1. 2%   drop in ingredient prices as a support for the firm. ” ’   ”I think that commodities, though, are  —   there’’s not anything   putting a lot of big upward pressure that I see on commodities,”   Benn said in the company’’s earnings call. ’ ’   ”So we even feel for the last half of this year, we’’re able to   keep our earnings guidance intact despite taking down our comp   store sales thoughts, at least from where we previously were,   because of even better commodity environment than what we   anticipated when we talked three months ago.” ’ ’   Even McDonald’’s CFO Kevin Ozan said the fast food giant saw   ”favorable commodity costs” in the past quarter. ’ ’   ”Turning next to menu pricing and commodity costs, in the US   commodity costs declined 4. 5% during the second quarter,” Ozan   said in . ’ ’   ”Looking to the second half of the year, we expect commodity   costs to remain favorable, maintaining our outlook for the   segments’’ full year basket of goods to be down 3. 5% to 4. 5%.” ’ ”   This doesn’t seem to be the case only for big companies. The   consumer price index for food at home, which tracks grocery   prices (a little different from the situation for restaurants   buying food at wholesale, but still a useful indicator of direct   food sales) has been declining since December 2014 and has been   in deflation territory since December 2015. ” ’  ’ ’   Interestingly enough, the price of food away from home (read: at   restaurants) has stayed roughly the same over that period. ’ ’  ’