’  ’ ”   Chief of Department James O’Neill will succeed Bill Bratton as   New York Police Department Commissioner after Bratton steps down   in September, Mayor Bill de Blasio announced Tuesday. ” ”   At a news conference, de Blasio praised O’Neill, a      Brooklyn native, as a leader in the movement to reduce tension   between police departments and minority communities. Police   reform activists, however, are skeptical that the new   commissioner would enact meaningful systemic change. ” ’   De Blasio said O’’Neill, who will command the country’’s largest   police force, is ”one of the   incoming police   commissioners this city has seen.” ’ ” that he appointed O’Neill chief   of department because of his skills in communicating with both   officers and citizens. Shortly after he began the job, protests   erupted over the killing of Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri,   and two officers were shot in Brooklyn. ” ’   ”Right from the onset, the weight was tremendous,” O’’Neill told   The Wall Street Journal in July. ’ ”   Under O’Neill, the department has begun to adopt a new model   throughout many of its precincts in which officers are evaluated   based on how effectively they reduce crime conditions, not the   number of arrests they make. Officers are asked to set aside time   in their shifts to built relationships with the community. ” ”   O’Neill will  in September. He will be succeeded as   chief of department by Carlos Gomez, currently chief of patrol. ” ’   On Tuesday, O’’Neill emphasized the ”neighborhood policing”   initiative he helped develop as chief of department. The model   will roll out in dozens of precincts in the fall and is aimed at   ”lowering crime, but not at the expense of losing the vital   support of the people we are sworn to protect and serve,” O’’Neill   said. ’ ’  ’ ”   Already, activists are skeptical of O’Neill’s appointment and   wary of the police department’s promises to focus on neighborhood   policing and rebuilding relationships with communities. ” ’   ”There should be no delusion of systemic change at the NYPD under   [O’’Neill’’s] tenure,”  of Communities   United for Police Reform said in a statement. ’ ’   Bratton’’s ”commitment to the discriminatory broken windows   policing” left New Yorkers  —   particularly those in communities of   color  —   susceptible to abuse by police, according to Pierre.   O’’Neill’’s experience as chief of department and his selection by   de Blasio and Bratton have prompted doubt that substantial   reforms within the department can occur. ’ ’   ”Talk is cheap and our communities are tired  —       ’’community policing,’’ ’’training’’ and the rhetoric of   ’’  relations’’ are no solution to the systemic   problems with policing in this city in nation,” Pierre said. ’ ”   On Monday, activists from    occupied Manhattan’s City Hall Park to protest discrimination in   policing and demand that de Blasio fire Bratton, provide     reparations to survivors and victims of police   brutality, and redirect the police department’s funding into   black and brown communities. ” ’   The group celebrated Bratton’’s resignation Tuesday, but noted   that the department still has work to do to eliminate the ”racist   practice” of Bratton’’s ”broken windows” policing, in which   officers crack down on   offenses in an effort to deter   larger ones. ’ ’   ”Bratton’’s removal is but one part of the first of our three   demands,” Millions March NYC said in a statement. ”This is only   the beginning. We won’’t stop until the abolition of the entire   policing institution.” ’ ”   Beyond the skepticism of local activist groups, O’Neill’s career   is not without blemishes. In 2008, while he was chief of the   department’s narcotics division, he was transferred out of the   unit when a group of officers was  according to The New York   Times. ” ”   But Bratton has praised O’Neill repeatedly. He hinted in July   that O’Neill was a serious candidate to take over his job when he   left. ” ’   ”Basically what I have worked on all these months is giving the   mayor the options when I leave to pick someone in the   department,” Bratton said in an interview with . ”[O’’Neill] would certainly be one of   them . .. he has a full understanding that to be successful at   crime reduction you need cooperation with the public.” ’ ”   Even before Bratton announced his pick, the leaders of police   organizations reacted positively to the possibility of O’Neill as   commissioner. ” ’   ”He’’s a solid guy,” Roy Richter, president of the Captains   Endowment Association, . ”He would be a good selection   if that’’s who the mayor chooses and if the position becomes   open.” ’ ’   Lou Turco, president of the Lieutenants Benevolent Association,   agreed. ’ ’   ”He’’d be an excellent choice to be a police commissioner,” he   told the Daily News. ”He’’s a cop’’s cop  —   100%.” ’