’  ’ ’   DUBAI (Reuters)   An Emirates Airline flight from India caught   fire after making an emergency landing at Dubai International   Airport on Wednesday, but all 300 passengers and crew escaped   from the burning fuselage, authorities said. ’ ’   Video purportedly showed a tower of flame bursting from the front   of the aircraft, and then a thick black plume of smoke rising   into the sky. Reuters was unable to verify the footage   independently. ’ ’   Photographs posted on social media showed a plane lying crumpled   on its belly on the tarmac with black smoke pouring from its   upper section. ’ ’   A spokesperson for operator Dubai Airports said all passengers   and crew aboard flight EK521 coming from Thiruvananthapuram had   been evacuated and emergency services were managing the   situation. ’ ’   A man waiting for relatives who were on the flight said he had   spoken to them by phone. ”They said they’’re safe and alright, but   that they felt a great panic as the plane was on fire. I’’ll be   comfortable when I see they are safe.” ’ ’   Another man said his family had also told him they were OK and   there had been a problem with the landing gear. ’ ’   Operator Dubai Airports said all arrivals and departures at Dubai   International had been suspended until further notice and an   update on the status of operations at the airport would be issued   at 5 p. m. (1300 GMT). ’ ”   The live arrivals page on Dubai Airports’ website showed that no   flights had arrived or landed at any of the airport’s three   terminals since about the time of the incident at 0845 GMT. ” ’ ’ ’   According to air traffic control recordings cited by Aviation   Herald, a respected independent website specializing in   information on air accidents, controllers at Dubai had reminded   the crew of the Boeing 777 to lower the landing gear as it came   into approach. ’ ’   Shortly afterwards, the crew announced they were aborting the   landing to ”go around,” a routine procedure for which pilots are   well trained, but the aircraft came to rest near the end of the   runway instead, Aviation Herald reported. ’ ’   There was no immediate confirmation on whether the landing gear   was extended when the aircraft touched the ground. ’ ’   Emirates Airline initially said there had been a total of 275   passengers and crew aboard the plane, a Boeing   delivered   to the airline in 2003, but later updated that number to 282   passengers and 18 crew. ’ ’   Planemaker Boeing said in a statement it was monitoring the   situation in Dubai and it would be working with Emirates to   gather more information. ’ ’   (Reporting by Noah Browning, Hadeel al Sayegh, David French, Tim   Hepher, Writing by William Maclean; Editing by Richard Balmforth   and Andrew Heavens) ’