’  ’ ’   Kevin Roberts, the executive chairman of the advertising agency   Saatchi & Saatchi, has resigned. ’ ’   The Wednesday announcement came just days after he was placed ”on   leave of absence” by the agency’’s parent company, Publicis   Groupe, in response to controversial comments he made to Business   Insider about gender diversity in the advertising industry. ’ ’ Roberts said the debate   over gender diversity in the advertising industry was ”over” and   he spent ”no time” thinking about the issue at Publicis, thanks   to its   gender split, adding that the company had ”never had   a problem.” ’ ’   Roberts also suggested that many female and male creatives did   not take top leadership roles because they simply wanted to be   happy and ”do great work.” ’ ’: ”The supervisory board   and the chairman and CEO of Publicis Groupe took note of Kevin   Roberts’’ decision to step down with effect from September 1,   2016, prior to his retirement date due in May 2017.” ’ ’   Roberts also provided his own statement, apologizing that his   ”miscommunication” had caused offense: ’ ”   Roberts’ comments made headlines worldwide over the weekend and   caused much consternation within the advertising industry. ” ’  ’ ’   Maurice Levy, the CEO of Publicis Groupe, released a statement   shortly after the article was published saying Roberts’’ comments   were ”.”   Saatchi & Saatchi CEO Robert Senior said Roberts’’ views were   not the position of the agency and ”the issue of gender diversity   is not in any way over for our industry.” ’ ’   Many senior advertising figures outside Publicis Groupe  Airbnb chief marketing   officer Jonathan Mildenhall, DDB North America CEO Wendy Clark,   PepsiCo beverage president Brad Jakeman, and outgoing American   Association of Advertising Agencies CEO Nancy Hill. ’ ’ Roberts also took aim at   former BBH president and women’’s leadership advocate Cindy   Gallop, who is vocal on Twitter about gender issues, saying: ”I   think she’’s got problems that are of her own making. I think   she’’s making up a lot of the stuff to create a profile, and to   take applause, and to get on a soap[box].” ’ ”   Gallop provided this statement in response to Roberts’   resignation: ” ’   In May,  with employees of MSLGroup, one of its PR agencies,   for $3 million. Publicis denied that the settlement was the   reason the company reacted so quickly to reprimand Roberts for   his comments. ’ ’   Roberts began his advertising career in 1969 at Mary Quant   cosmetics in the UK, where he was a brand manager.  Roberts had persuaded management to   hire him even though he had no experience by offering to work for   six months at  . ’ ”   From there he joined Gillette’s marketing team, working on   women’s toiletries, before joining Procter & Gamble in 1975,   where he spent seven years as chief of marketing for its Middle   East division. It was there that he first got to know Saatchi, as   the agency’s client. ” ’   He later went on to Pepsi in the Middle East before switching to   become CEO of Pepsi Canada. After that he spent seven years as   director and chief operating officer of the New Zealand brewery   Lion Nathan before eventually joining Saatchi & Saatchi as   global CEO in 1997. ’ ’   In 2015, his role changed to executive chairman of Saatchi &   Saatchi and head coach at Publicis Groupe. The head coach role   involved supporting the company’’s ”P12” directors and helping the   company with its recent restructuring. ’ ’   Outside his advertising job, Roberts is a business ambassador for   the New Zealand United States Council and the chairman of the     service My Food Bag. He also teaches at the Judge   Business School at Cambridge University. ’ ’   Publicis Groupe’’s annual report says ”in the event of a forced   departure due to a change in control, strategy, and other than in   the case of serious or gross misconduct,” Roberts would be   entitled to a termination benefit equal to 120% of his annual   fixed salary, the maximum annual amount of his target bonus, and   the annual cost of the various benefits he receives. ’ ’   Roberts was paid $4, 137, 786 in total compensation last year. That   contained fixed compensation of $901, 610, ”variable compensation”   (which included a contractual annual pension disbursement) of   $3, 204, 322, and benefits in kind of $31, 854. ’ ”   It is now up to Publicis Groupe’s supervisory board to decide   Roberts’ compensation arrangements going forward. ” ’     ’