’  ’ ”   Donald Trump’s refusal to endorse House Speaker Paul Ryan, his   unabashed criticism of a family whose son was killed fighting in   Iraq, and a series of other   missteps have infuriated   key members of the Republican Party and left his campaign staff   demoralized, according to multiple reports published Wednesday   morning. ” ’   One source close to the campaign  by characterizing the Trump staff as ”suicidal.” ’ ’   ”Manafort not challenging [Trump] anymore,” said the source,   described as an ally of campaign chairman Paul Manafort. ”Mailing   it in. Staff suicidal.” ’ ’  ’ ”   Officials within the GOP didn’t seem to have much more optimism. ” ’   ABC News reporter Jonathan Karl  that ”senior officials at the party   are actively exploring what would happen if Trump dropped out”   and are wondering about ”how to replace him on the ballot.” ’ ’   ”He is so unpredictable right now, they are so unable to control   his message that they just don’’t know and they clearly think it   is a possibility, which is why they’’re looking at these rules,”   Karl said on ”Good Morning America.” ’ ’   A top Republican  that Reince Priebus, the   Republican National Committee chairman, was ”apoplectic” over   Trump’’s refusal to endorse Ryan in his House reelection race.   Priebus was described as ”furious” by sources who spoke with   Karl. ’ ’   Even Indiana Gov. Mike Pence, Trump’’s running mate, distanced   himself from Trump by telling Fox News on Wednesday that he   ”strongly support[s]” Ryan and endorses his reelection. ’ ’   And former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, one of Trump’’s most   ardent supporters,  for what he called   ” ” behavior. ’ ’   ”Trump is still behaving like as though it was the primaries and   there were 17 candidates,” Gingrich told Fox Business Channel on   Wednesday. ”He has not made the transition to being the potential   president of the United States, which is a much tougher league.” ’ ”   Republicans close to Trump were plotting an intervention to   protect other Republican candidates who will also be up for   election this November, NBC News reported. Top Republicans were   said to be hoping that Trump’s children could help rein him in. ” ’   A CNN reporter cited a Trump adviser who said the media needed to   focus more on Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton and   less on Trump: ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’t. says a big part of the frustration inside the Trump campaign is that the media is focused too much on   HRC. ’t’t’ ’   Trump spokesman Jason Miller pushed back on the reports of   turmoil within the campaign,  out a statement. ’ ’   ”The idea that Paul Manafort is mailing it in is completely   erroneous,” the statement said. ”Our campaign just finished up   our strongest month of fundraising to date, we’’re adding talented   and experienced staffers on a daily basis, and Mr. Trump’’s   turning out bigger and more enthusiastic crowds than Hillary   Clinton ever could.” ’ ’   Manafort has also denied the reports: ’ ’ ’ ’  just told me  report wrong    that all is ok on the  Train. From outside of course it looks like no rails. ’t’t’ ’   And Trump stood firm, saying nothing was amiss. He tweeted   Wednesday morning: ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tThere is great unity in my campaign, perhaps greater than ever before. I want to thank everyone for your tremendous support. Beat Crooked H! ’t’t’