’ History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were ”resolved” when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a    site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of   data to save for future generations. ’ ’ The main site for Archive Team is at  and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. ’ ’ This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive,   datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the  providing a path back to lost websites and work.  ’ ’ Our collection has grown to the point of having   for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. ’ ’ The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures.  ’ ’ ’ ’ To use ArchiveBot, drop by #archivebot on EFNet. To interact with ArchiveBot, you issue commands by typing it into the channel. Note you will need channel operator permissions in order to issue archiving jobs. The dashboard shows the sites being downloaded currently. ’ ’ There is a dashboard running for the archivebot process at . ’ ” ArchiveBot’s source code can be found at . ’t” ’  ’ ’   Everyone jokes about catching the travel bug after they   travel to a truly spectacular place for the first   time.  ’ ’    ’ ”   As a    who’s spent some time abroad, I constantly   have that itch to book a flight to some far away place.   Visiting new places, experiencing new cultures and trying new   foods is amazing. But my favorite thing about traveling? How easy   it is to meet new people.  ” ’   This last winter while I was traveling solo   in Guangzhou, China, I was sitting in the lobby of my   hostel to use the wifi when a Norwegian couple sat down   to ask me for directions. And, just like that, I had   people to explore the city with. I ended up spending the   better part of the next 48 hours going around Guangzhou with them   and a Danish woman. ’ ’   Tinder Social duplicated the best part of that experience, and I   never had to leave New York City. ’ ”   Tinder gets a bad rap. I’ve personally had terrible experiences   the few times I’ve actually met up with someone from the   app. ” ”   But this last weekend one of my closest friends from my hometown   was visiting me in New York City. It was Friday night and we   wanted to go out. I’m new to the city and haven’t really taken   part in the night scene, so we joked about using Tinder   Social to find people to go out with. ” ’   The next thing you know, we created a group   and were   swiping right on other groups interested in going   out that popped up on our screen.  ’ ’   We exchanged messages with a few people and then   committed to hanging out with two guys who wanted to take night   pictures down by the East River.  ’ ” was   the first time they had used the new social feature. We   then joked about past Tinder dates, how awful or weird they   had been, except for one of the boys who said he had used Tinder   as more of a networking tool or to find models for his   photography work. But that’s another story.  ” ’  ’ ’   We spent the better part of the next 48 hours exploring New York   City with these two guys who were literally strangers before   we matched with them on Tinder Social. It was an insanely   fun.  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’   None of us came in with expectations of what that night would   turn into, but as we were saying goodbye on Sunday, one of us   joked that the friendships we had made using an   app were a one in a million chance. ’ ”   I’m not so sure. ” ”   If it’s that easy to meet people while traveling, why can’t   it be that easy using a group dating app? ” ’Everyone jokes about catching the travel bug. ..’