’  ’ ”   Much has been written about the decay of the PC market, but   there’s another once mighty market in a similar death   spiral: enterprise storage. ” ’   That market gave rise to   companies like EMC   (being bought by Dell) and NetApp (struggling to grow revenue)   as well as storage units at Dell, Hitachi, and others. Overall,   revenues dropped 2% in 2015, with EMC down by 5% and NetApp down   by nearly 15%  ’ ”   That traditional storage market, where companies buy specialized   hardware called storage arrays to hold and manage   corporate data, is never coming back, says Mark Lewis, a   longtime storage exec, who was once EMC’s CTO and chief strategy   officer. ” ’   There are two reasons for the death spiral, he says: ’ ”   With Amazon, companies don’t need to buy big, expensive storage   and store it all on their own anymore. ” ”   Meanwhile, Amazon, along with other huge internet companies   like Google and Facebook, don’t buy arrays. ” ’   Instead, these giants have built their own homegrown storage   software that allows them to use the type of inexpensive storage   used by ordinary computer servers. This lets them have faster,   cheaper, and more reliable storage than the options sold by EMC,   NetApp, or even relatively newer companies like Pure Storage,   Lewis says. ’ ’   Lewis is now the CEO of a   startup, Formation   Data Systems, because he believes that software is already eating   the storage world. ’ ”   He says that he first saw this trend around 2010. That’s when he   did an exercise where he looked at a long list of      startups to see how many of them were EMC customers. ” ’   Lewis came up empty. They were all using the cloud, and mostly   Amazon. They had no need to buy their own hardware. ’ ’  ’ ”   He gave his best recommendations about it to his boss at the time    —   EMC’s longtime CEO, Joe Tucci  —   telling him that EMC should   build a cloud and take on Amazon. ” ’   Then he left EMC to found his own startup, he says. ’ ”created storage software for   enterprises that’s similar to the type that Amazon, Google, and   Facebook have built internally. ” ’   ”It’’s software that looks like a storage array,” he tells   Business Insider. ’ ”   He’s raised $24 million in venture funds, and he believes that a   software startup like his will become the next EMC. ” ’   As for his thoughts on the end of EMC as it gets consumed by   Dell, he thinks that the combined company will do OK, and sees it   as a natural result of an aging, shrinking, and consolidating   market. Storage arrays will become like mainframes, he predicts,   never completely dead but never growing again. ’ ”   So, he says, the new huge company won’t solve the underlying   problem of selling an aging type of technology using an   outdated business model. ” ’   ”You don’’t merge Sears and JC Penney and get Amazon,” he said. ’