’  ’ ’   NEW YORK (Reuters)   A Muslim imam and a second man were fatally   shot on Saturday while walking home from afternoon prayers at a   mosque in the New York City borough of Queens, authorities said. ’ ’   The motive for the shooting was not immediately known and no   evidence has been uncovered so far that the two men were targeted   because of their faith, said Tiffany Phillips, a spokeswoman for   the New York City Police Department. But police were not ruling   out any possibility, she added. ’ ’   The cleric, who police identified as Alala Uddin Akongi, and the   second man were both shot in the head at close range at about   1:50 pm EDT (1750 GMT) after leaving the   Jame Masjid   Mosque in the Ozone Park neighborhood. Both men were wearing   religious garb at the time of shooting. ’ ’   The men were transported to Jamaica Hospital Medical Center and   died ”while   procedures were being performed,” said   Andrew Rubin, a hospital spokesman.  ’ ’   Phillips declined to identify the second man or his relationship   with the imam pending notification of his family.  ’ ’   Police have yet to identify a suspect but Phillips said witnesses   said they saw a lone armed assailant fleeing the scene on a   blistering hot summer afternoon.  ’ ’  ’ ”   Akongi, 55, was described as a peaceful man who was beloved   within Ozone Park’s large Muslim community. ” ’   ”He would not hurt a fly,” his nephew Rahi Majid, 26, told the   New York Daily News. ”You would watch him come down the street   and watch the peace he brings.” ’ ’   Video footage posted on YouTube showed dozens of men gathered   near the site of the shooting, with one of them telling the crowd   that it appeared to be a hate crime, even as police said the   motive was still unknown. ’ ’   ”We feel really insecure and unsafe in a moment like this,”   Millat Uddin, an Ozone Park resident told CBS New York. ”It’’s   really threatening to us, threatening to our future, threatening   to our mobility in our neighborhood, and we’re looking for the   justice.” ’ ’   (Editing by Tom Brown) ’