’  ’ ’   The Olympic diving pool in Rio has been closed after turning   green and  And the   pool in the   aquatic center has turned a pale shade of green as well. ’ ” a pool designer and expert, explained to Business   Insider that Olympians who’ve already plunged into the verdant   water should . ” ’   But he also said that the fact this problem developed in the   first place reveals what seems, in his opinion, to be a   shockingly poor standard of pool maintenance at what is (at least   this week) the most famous aquatic center in the world. ’ ’   ”It’’s not hard,” to keep a pool from turning green, he said. And   the current explanations for the color  —   algae or a pH imbalance    —   don’’t address the underlying problem. ’ ’   A   pool with a proper chlorine level will never   develop algae, Post said. And while a pH imbalance could cause   metals like copper in the water to no longer be dissolved, no   professional pool should develop a pH imbalance in the first   place. ’ ’’ ’   ”Everything affects pH,” he said. ”Swimmers getting in and out of   the water, if they peed in the water, dust that goes in the water   . ..” ’ ”   The list goes on, but the point is pH maintenance is the central   responsibility of a pool’s caretaker. Letting it get this   thoroughly out of whack could be a sign of a deeper management   problem. ” ’   ”Most modern pools will have a [computerized] controller that   will continuously monitor the pH,” Post said. ’ ”   All a pool’s caretakers have to do is keep an eye on the   controller to make sure it’s working properly, and that its   chemical stores are full. ” ’  ’ ’   Plus, he noted, there should have been plenty of time to notice   the problem once things began to go wrong. ’ ’   ”The dive pool is actually a very large body of water because of   its depth,” he said. ”Whatever caused this didn’’t happen in 10   minutes. It probably happened over the course of hours  —   six to   12 hours even. So I don’’t know why it wasn’’t noticed earlier.” ’ ’   Post said that   crises in professional pools are   vanishingly rare. Similar college pools all over the country see   far more traffic without problems. The pool used for the US   Olympic trials, for example, gets monitored 24 hours a day, seven   days a week. ’ ”   As for what it means that two pools seem to have turned green in   the same center: Post says that either someone tracked a   biological agent from the dive pool to the polo pool, or they’re   both maintained by the same malfunctioning controller. ” ’   When reached via email, the International Olympic Committee   referred us to Rio 2016, who did not immediately respond to a   request for comment. ’