’  ’ ’   Earlier this week, a group calling itself the ”Shadow Brokers”   announced that it   —      —   that   it claimed were hacked and stolen from an alleged NSA hacking   group dubbed ”The Equation Group.” ’ ”   Beside the fact that the National Security Agency getting hacked   is   in itself, the leak of the data and the claim   from this mystery group that it’s just trying to make money   doesn’t seem to add up. ” ”   Here’s why. ” ”   According  Business Insider, the   agency’s hackers don’t just put their exploits and toolkits   online where they can potentially be pilfered. The more likely   scenario for where the data came from, says   research   scientist Dave Aitel, is an insider who downloaded it onto a USB   stick. ” ’   Instead of a ”hack,” Aitel believes, it’’s much more likely that   this was a more classic spy operation that involved human   intelligence. ’ ’   ”This idea that a group of unknown hackers are going to take on   the NSA seems unlikely as well,” Aitel told Business Insider.   ”There’’s a long arm and a long memory to the US intelligence   community, and I don’’t think anyone wants to be on the other end   of that without good reason. I don’’t necessarily think a million   bitcoin is a   reason.” ’ ’  ’ ”   One of the many strange things about this incident is the very   public nature of what transpired. When a hacker takes over your   computer, they don’t start activating your webcam or running   weird programs because you’d figure out pretty quickly that   something was up and you’d try to get rid of them. ” ’   The same is true for the NSA. ’ ”   If the Shadow Brokers owned the NSA’s command and control server,   then it would probably be a much better approach to just sit   back, watch, and try to pivot to other interesting things that   they might be able to find. ” ’   Instead, the group wrote on Pastebin, a website where you can   store text, that ”we  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Software exploits are digital gold for hackers, since they often   give a key inside a system or network that no one has ever   noticed before, and thus, hasn’’t fixed. Which is why the   marketplace for these ” ” exploits is so lucrative. We’’re   talking hundreds of thousands to millions of dollars for this   kind of code. ’ ’   Most of the time, an exploit is either found by a security   research firm, which then writes about it and reports it to the   company so it can fix the problem. Or, a hacker looking for cash   will take that found exploit and sell it on the black market. ’ ’   So it would make sense for a group like Shadow Brokers to want to   sell their treasure trove, but going public with it is beyond   strange. ’ ’   ”From my perspective, its extremely bizarre behavior,” an     hacker who spoke on condition of anonymity told Business Insider.   ”Most groups who either identify or trade in exploits do one of   two things. If you identify, like a security research firm [does]   . .. they’’ll typically publish their findings. They’’re really in   the best interest of the companies and users who use these   products.” ’ ’   The source added: ”In the other scenarios, folks who sort of deal   in the exploit markets. They quietly sell these things. To come   out with this public auction is the more bizarre variance of that   that I’’ve ever seen. So it’’s not clear what the intent here is.” ’ ’  ’ ’   If you ask   contractor Edward Snowden, the public leak and   claims of the Shadow Brokers seem to have Russian fingerprints   all over them, and it serves as a warning from Moscow to   Washington. The message: If your policymakers keep blaming us for   the DNC hack, then we can use this hack to implicate  ’ ’   ” ’ ’  ’ ’   ”He has the same theory  —   . The US political people got upset.   They probably made the NSA do a covert response,” Aitel   speculated. ”This is another response to the NSA’’s covert   response. There’’s a lot of sort of very public messages here   going back and forth, which is interesting to look at.” ’ ”   Aitel also doesn’t think that anyone is going to actually pony up   the money required to win the auction. And that prediction is   probably going to be right, since WikiLeaks claims that it   already has the archive. ” ’   ”We had already obtained the archive of NSA cyber weapons   released earlier today,” its official Twitter account    ”and will release our own pristine copy in due course.” ’ ’   The Shadow Brokers did not respond to an emailed request for   comment. ’