’  ’ ”   Breitbart News chairman Steve Bannon and GOP strategist Kellyanne   Conway are now running Republican presidential nominee Donald   Trump’s campaign. ” ’   Bannon is the newly installed campaign CEO, while Conway,    has been promoted to   campaign manager. ’ ’   ”I have known Steve and Kellyanne both for many years. They are   extremely capable, highly qualified people who love to win and   know how to win,” Trump said in a statement Wednesday morning. ’ ’   ”I believe we’’re adding some of the best talents in politics,   with the experience and expertise needed to defeat Hillary   Clinton in November and continue to share my message and vision   to Make America Great Again.” ’ ”   Since wrestling control from Corey Lewandowski, the former Trump   campaign manager, earlier this year, seasoned campaign veteran   Paul Manafort has in essence been overseeing the campaign   operations, serving as the campaign chair. But Wednesday’s   shakeup most likely leaves Manafort  as Trump has soured on the chair’s attempts   to keep him on message. ” ”   Leading up to the   reports  that Manafort had given up attempting to rein in   Trump’s proclivity for    controversial comments. ” ”   A former investment banker and adviser to former Gov. Sarah Palin   of Alaska, Bannon is widely known for helping to   craft Bretibart’s vision as a   outlet opposed   to the GOP establishment and unafraid to run stories with a   conspiratorial bent. Under Bannon, Breitbart has also led the     charge that Trump has embraced wholeheartedly in   his campaign. ” ”   Trump’s poll numbers have  in   recent weeks, both in national polling and in key battleground   states. ” ”   In a series of tweets, The Washington Posts’ Robert Costa   outlined the impact Bannon could have on Trump’s campaign: ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tBannon has convinced Trump that rest of campaign needs to be   brawl,       politics’t’t’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tHuge rallies. Gloves off. Brutal fights with Clinton. Heavy emphasis on nationalism and populism. That’s the Bannon strategy. ’t’t” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tWhat I hear: Bannon’’s calculation is that Trump can still win but only if he is truly seen as ”change,” as ”the total outsider”’t’t’