’  ’ ’   Amid a fierce national debate on mass incarceration in the US, a   new report has found that one population has been severely   overlooked: women. ’ ’   The number of women held in local US jails has skyrocketed over   the last four decades, jumping as much as 14 times what it was in   the 1970s, according to a    jointly released on Wednesday by the Vera Institute of Justice,   an independent research nonprofit that ”tackles   the and the MacArthur Foundation’’s Safety and   Justice Challenge, which is aimed at improving local justice   systems. ’ ”   Women now make up nearly 110, 000 of the 745, 000 people in the   country’s jails, the report found. ” ’   Beyond the ”alarming” rate increase, the report concludes that   the   system is sorely lacking in research and   data on why more women are being locked up. ’ ’   ”With little data and scant examination of just who the women in   jail are and how they got there, it is not surprising that recent   innovations to craft smarter, more targeted use of jails do not   account for the realities of women’’s lives,” Fred Patrick, a   director at the Vera Institute of Justice, said in the report. ’ ’   What little is known about these female inmates is that the   majority are charged with   nonviolent offenses and   typically have less extensive criminal histories than male   inmates. ’ ’   Further, nearly 80% of women in jail are mothers, many of whom   bear sole responsibility for their children, according to the   report. ’ ”   The report found that several factors affect women’s   incarceration to a greater extent than men, including trauma,   physical and behavioral health disorders,   and   poverty. ” ’   Local jurisdictions have let jails become ”stopgap providers” of   social and community services for women, who were unable to reach   resources they needed outside of the   system, the   report said. ’ ”   Already, the report’s numbers are being treated with some   caution by some   experts, who say that the   report could even be an underestimation of the full   impact on women in jails. ” ”   John Pfaff,  noted on Twitter that while the country’s   jail population may be 745, 000, that number is totaled just   once a year, and so doesn’t show the 11 million jail admissions   that occur throughout the course of each year. ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’t3B. If so, women will make up bigger share of the    than they do of the   . The   count is biased down for them. ’t’t’ ”   Pfaff also noted that while the rate of women’s incarcerations   between 1970 and 2014 may have quadrupled, men still account for   nearly 83% of the overall increase in jail populations. ”