’  ’ ’   Newly released documents from former US National Security Agency   contractor Edward Snowden confirm what many experts had already   believed:  and   implants that leaked online earlier this week is real. ’ ’   The key to confirming the leaked files, which was uploaded to   various   sites earlier this week by a group called   the ”Shadow Brokers,”  published on Friday by Sam   Biddle of The Intercept. It instructed NSA hackers on how to   track their malicious software by using a   string   buried in the code. ’ ’   The tracking string in the manual, ace02468bdf13579, also appears   inside code for a software implant called ”Second Date,” which   was leaked as part of the archive posted earlier this   week. ’ ’   But that’’s not the only piece of evidence that shows the leak   was, in essence, a software ”toolbox” for NSA hackers to   target adversaries. Among  are implants   Banana   Glee, Jet Plow, and Zesty Leak, which were all documented in   a     catalog of NSA tools that was published in   late 2013. ’ ’   ”One of the interesting things about the exploits is they are   very professional and they clean up after themselves,” Dave   Aitel, an   research scientist who now leads     firm Immunity, told Business Insider. ”Not   only do they turn things off, but they turn things back on. When   you’’re looking at stuff that’’s written by a lot of hackers, it   will backdoor something but it won’’t ’’ ’’ something.” ’ ’   Put simply: Your average hacker will build tools that break   in, but a sophisticated hacker  —   such as those employed by the   US or some other nation  —   will build tools that break in,   hide all their tracks, and turn everything off once they get what   they need. ’ ’   ”These are the type of tools that are really exclusive to   governments,” a source who worked for NSA’’s elite hacker unit,   Tailored Access Operations, told Business Insider on condition of   anonymity in order to discuss sensitive matters. ’ ’  ’ ’   Now that the NSA toolkit has been confirmed as legitimate, the   remaining mystery is how they came into public view.    as to how the Shadow   Brokers obtained the files: Either they hacked a server used by   NSA hackers to stage attacks that had the files mistakenly left   there by an operator, or an agency insider downloaded the   data and later leaked it online. ’ ”   Both scenarios are plausible, though neither has been confirmed,   and the NSA isn’t likely to say anything. ” ’   The   Shadow Brokers    accounts earlier this month   on Reddit, Github, Twitter, and Imgur before announcing on August   13 that its ”cyber weapon auction,” which promised bidders a   ”full state sponsor tool set” from a hacking unit believed to be   within the NSA known only as ”The Equation Group.” ’ ’   It released a   archive on various   sites   with half being free to view and use, while the other half   was encrypted. The winner of the auction, the group said, would   get the decryption key. ’ ’   But an auction for hacking tools and exploits is not something   that ever happens, . Instead, exploits are bought and sold on the   black market for hundreds of thousands and sometimes millions of   dollars in private. ’ ’   The NSA did not immediately respond to a request for comment. ’