’  ’ ’   Under Armour has ended its endorsement deal with hunter and   fitness star Sarah Bowmar after she posted a video to YouTube of   her husband, Josh, brutally killing a black bear with a     homemade spear, . ’ ”   The   footage was posted to the couple’s Bowmar   Bowhunting channel in June and was captured in Alberta, Canada,   using a GoPro camera, which was attached to the weapon. ” ’   Both Bowmars  —   who own the Bowmar Fitness   —   are wearing Under Armour clothing in the   video, which was viewed more than 200, 000 times but . (The video, which is very graphic,   .) ’ ’   Commenters on social media were particularly perturbed by the joy   Josh appeared to show when killing the animal  —   cheering to the   camera and   his wife.   activists   expressed concerns the bear could have taken up to 20 hours to   die, . ’ ’ signed by more than 4, 000   people, calling on Under Armour to drop its sponsorship of the   Bowmars. ’ ’ ’ ’   Only Sarah is an Under   athlete. She was signed   by the   sports apparel firm to star in its first   women’’s hunting campaign, ”The Women of Will,” . ’ ’   The petition reads: ”Regardless of their impressive fitness   techniques, Under Armour needs to drop their sponsorship of   Bowmar Fitness immediately. In video after video, these two   showed a sickening pleasure in the suffering and death of the   animals they hunted (usually for fun). It is disgraceful for a   company like Under Armour to be associated with Josh Bowmar and   his fitness and hunting businesses.” ’ ’   Under Armour confirmed it had dropped its deal with Sarah on   Friday. ’ ’   ”The method used to harvest this animal was reckless and we do   not condone it,” an Under Armour spokesperson told Business   Insider. ”Under Armour is dedicated to the hunting community and   supports hunting that is conducted in compliance with applicable   federal, state and local laws and hunting practices that ensure a   responsible and safe harvest of the animal.” ’ ’   Sarah expressed her confusion on Twitter about Under Armour   severing ties with her: ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tUnder armour and the Bowmars broke up today. I’ll do a blog post in a few days when I am no longer crying.  ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tI wish we could understand it. It breaks my heart to a million pieces.   ’ ’   She retweeted messages of support from her fans. ’ ’ that the Alberta environment   ministry described the Bowmar video as ”archaic” and   ”unacceptable,” and that a ban on spear hunting is being   introduced this fall. ’ ’   ”In the meantime, we have asked Fish and Wildlife officers to   investigate this incident to determine if charges are warranted   under existing laws,” a ministry spokesperson said in a   statement. ’