’  ’ ’   Earlier this month, the Bank of England did something never   before seen in its   history. It cut its key interest rate   to just 0. 25%. ’ ’   A few years ago, this might have been remarkable. It means banks   in the UK can borrow money from the central bank for next to   nothing. ’ ’   But in 2016, a ”historic low” for interest rates is a superlative   repeated so often that it doesn’’t get much notice anymore. ’ ”   In fact, if the UK’s central bank cuts its benchmark interest   rate again  —   to 0%  —   it will only be catching up to its   major counterparts. ” ’   Policymakers in the US, Japan, and Europe have already cut rates   to or below 0% and collectively this means that something is   happening that has never before been seen in at least  of recorded history. In fact, some central banks   are paying other banks to borrow money. ’ ”   They’re doing this to spur economic growth. The problem is it’s   not clear that it is working while falling rates are creating new   risks for investors around the world. And raising them, as the US   Federal Reserve is trying to do, will create a whole host of new   problems for investors and businesses that have to be weaned off   such a unique setup. ” ”   The decision to lower interest rates isn’t itself a particularly   revolutionary idea. Policymakers like the US Federal Reserve   raise and lower rates as a way to either slow or stimulate the   economy. ” ’   The basic premise of a rate cut is that it affects the financial   system by resulting in lower rates . Lower   interest rates make it cheaper and more appealing for people and   businesses to borrow. They also incentivize people and companies   to lend, or invest money because parking it in the bank is   pointless. ’ ’   So businesses build factories and hire workers for those   factories (who in turn go out and spend their new wages) people   buy homes that need to be built and paid for  —   and all of this   lifts the economy out of a funk. ’ ’   In December 2008, Ben Bernanke, then chairman of the Federal   Reserve, faced the worst economic downturn since the Great   Depression and decided that the best response to the crisis was   to adopt the unprecedented 0% Federal Funds rate. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”The Federal Reserve will employ all available tools to promote   the resumption of sustainable economic growth and to preserve   price stability,” the Fed said in its historic statement. ”In   particular, the Committee anticipates that weak economic   conditions are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels of the   federal funds rate for some time.” ’ ’   ”Some time” turned out to be seven years, as the Fed and current   Chair Janet Yellen increased rates off of 0% in December 2015.   Even with the hike, the Fed rate is higher by just   of   1% and is likely to remain under 1% for some time. ’ ”   So how’s it working out so far? ” ’   The biggest target for stimulus is everyday people. Get people   back in their jobs and they spend money and create wealth and   drive the global economy forward. ’ ’   Most data point to the fact that the average person is, in fact,   doing better off than when the great experiment of low rates   began. ’ ’ the global growth rate for both   consumer expenditures and disposable income has rebounded from   their troughs in 2009 to around 3% for each. ’ ”   Looking at it closely, however, and it really depends on who   you’re talking about. ” ’   The labor market has responded as well as could be expected. The   unemployment rate has fallen under 5% the number of job openings   is  and wage growth (while admittedly still   lower than hoped) is . So based on a myriad of   indicators   there would appear to show a strong bounce back. ’ ’   For many consumers the low interest rates have been a boon. The   number of  was the highest on record, at least   in part because of the affordability of financing from low   interest rates. Mortgages rates are  making it so affordable to get a   home that  ’ ’ has been one of the  and has returned to   prerecession levels. In these respects, the low interest rates   have done exactly what they were designed to do. ’ ’   However, the picture is not as rosy for many economies outside of   the US. ’ ”   Eurozone unemployment has  and in Japan, the   country’s nominal GDP is just now returning to its average from   before the crisis. ” ”   Another clue that the economy isn’t firing on all cylinders: In   America, price growth has remained steadily . In both  and  prices have actually decreased. ” ’  ’ ’   Rising inflation means that cash becomes less valuable over time,   which means that people are  and allows companies to charge more and   grow profits. ’ ’   And although profits of companies in the US,       and  initially rose to   highs  —   many businesses   are still not investing in large,   projects. Investment   by US companies is now declining on a    basis  —     which is a clue that executives are worried about the future. ’ ”   Businesses are more likely to spend on   equipment if   they believe economic growth will be stronger in the future.   Since that doesn’t appear to be the case with low GDP growth,   investment doesn’t look as attractive. ” ’   Additionally, the current decline may also be because businesses   are anticipating the end of a business cycle or the impact of   energy prices, but the promise of huge investments by businesses   . ’ ’   Moreover, while these firms have done little to invest in     projects, debt at these corporations has exploded. For   example ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Perhaps the most complete picture of the odd outcomes associated   with historically low interest rates has come in financial   markets. ’ ’   Government bonds, once thought of as the safe haven where   investors could accumulate income from yield payments, have seen   their yields hit   lows in recent months. This has ignited   what has been called the ”hunt for yield” throughout world   markets. Since government bonds were once a dependable source of   steady income for investors, these same people have to go out and   find something to replace the returns they were receiving in the     markets. ’ ’   Thus, demand for riskier bonds has boomed and  to make up   the lost yield and keep up with their investment goals. ’ ’   Additionally, this has gotten foreign investors into US stocks   and may be one of the reasons that indexes have hit     highs. The combination of record highs in stocks and record lows   in bond yields is also, much like interest rates, unprecedented. ’ ’   In a   scenario, the US and other countries that have   recently launched on their     campaign could   be stuck there for some time. ’ ’   The classic example of    trap is Japan. The   country implemented 0% interest rates for the first time almost   20 years ago, and has recently begun to move their interest rate   into negative territory. ’ ’   Despite this seemingly stimulative monetary policy, Japan has   seen lackluster economic growth and a slowdown in a slew of   economic indicators. ’ ’  ’ ’   Charles Bean, Christian Broda, Takatoshi Ito, and Randall   Kroszner of the Centre for Economic Policy Research  through the   prism of Japan and found that there can be a ”trap” of low rates. ’ ’   The researchers said the history of Japan is a warning for   maintaining such low rates for too long. Here are the researchers   (emphasis added): ’ ’   Essentially, in a   scenario, a country ends up with too   much debt, an inability to raise rates without causing   destabilization, and consistent deflation eroding the value of   assets. ’ ”   When you upend 5, 000 years of economics history, it’s bound to   take some time to figure out the impact of the change. ” ”   Negative interest rates are barely a year old and the 0%     policy of the Fed hasn’t undergone the test of   another recession. Economic growth is still subdued and we aren’t   sure when central banks in Europe, the UK, or Japan will   eventually raise rates again. ” ’   The most honest grade to give these massive experiments is   probably incomplete. ’ ’   Will the record levels of debt become an issue when interest   rates finally do rise? Will the lack of monetary ”firepower”   leave central banks with no room to ease when the next downturn   comes? What happens if a large swath of negative yielding bonds   end up coming to maturity? Will higher wages in the US eventually   lead to increased inflationary pressures? ’