’  ’ ”   Ford isn’t holding back. ” ’   In the past two years, the automaker has redesigned and launched   its two most important vehicles, the       pickup and the iconic Mustang muscle car. The   has been   America’s   vehicle for decades, and the      Mustang is synonymous with Ford. ’ ’   As if that weren’t enough, Ford unveiled the   GT   supercar at the Detroit auto show in 2015. The $    machine, in racing trim, brought Ford back to the 24 Le Mans in   France to celebrate the 50th anniversary of Ford’s legendary   win there  —   . ’ ’   The carmaker’s onslaught of   has now been extended   with the launch of an   Super Duty pickup for 2017, the   first major revamping of this   vehicle in nearly   two decades. ’ ”   That’s quite a run. Both the new   reengineered to use more   lightweight aluminum, and the Mustang, now more sports car than   muscle car, have been hits. The GT was so popular that Ford has   extended production, initially capped at 500, for two more years. ” ’   But the Super Duty is another story altogether. This is the truck   of trucks, holding a 43% chunk of the   pickup market in   the US. That’s astonishing, given how competitive the US truck   market is. Almost half the people who need to tow a big trailer   or haul massive loads, for business or pleasure, choose Super   Duty. ’ ’   There’s a reason why Ford didn’t mess with it for 18 years. It   was absolutely, positively not broken. ’ ’  ’ ’   “Super Duty is a very, very important product,” said Ford CFO Bob   Shanks on the company’s   earnings call in late   July, before diving into a litany of reasons why. ’ ”   “It’s high volume. It’s very high margin. It’s a big changeover   because we have not had a complete redesign of this product for   19 or 20 years. It’s going into a big plant. It’s aluminum. It’s   a new frame. It’s powertrain upgrades. It’s new features. It’s   new technologies. ” ” ’   In fact, the Super Duty redesign is so important to Ford that   both Shanks and CEO Mark Fields prepped the investment community   to expect weaker results in the second half of the year, at least   on some fronts, as Ford goes through the immense, once a   generation costs of launching the first new Super Duty since the   late 1990s. ’ ’   “It’s a big deal,” Brian Rathsburg, Ford’s marketing manager for   the Super Duty, told Business Insider. “The truck is our halo   vehicle in terms of capability. We’re absolutely operating from a   position of strength, but with that comes a burden of   responsibility to continue to be the leader. ” ’ ’   The Super Duty is actually a complete lineup of     trucks, which start tipping the scales at over 8, 500 pounds and   tend to be found in oil fields, on ranches, and pressed into   service by business that need serious cargo and towing capacity. ’ ’   The lowest trim level is the   moving up through     and   models. The prices start at just above $30, 000 and top   out at almost $80, 000 for the Platinum  . Engines are huge,   and they come in numerous gas and diesel versions. One     option offers a Brobdingnagian 925   of towing torque,   which is probably enough to adjust the orbit of the moon, if you   could get it hooked up. ’ ’   Completely maxed out towing, at the limits of the Super Duty’s   capacity, is 32, 500 pounds  —   over 16 tons. It could haul   more than six   behind it. ’ ’  ’ ’   As with all pickups these days, the new Super Duty is being   offered with a host of cab configurations and premium amenities.   Many of the upgrades for Ford were driven by customers, with   whom the automaker maintains an almost symbiotic relationship  —     you might think any big truck would satisfy truck people, but   truck folks are in fact the most demanding of all vehicle buyers. ’ ’   “Customers are a fundamental aspect,” Rathsburg said. “They live   in the truck  —   it’s a mobile office. They wanted more room and   more storage. ” ’ ’   Ford never loses touch with Super Duty owners, so the company was   ready when the requests started to roll in for changes. For   example, the need for additional storage was addressed by adding   a lockable compartment under the front seats in the Crew Cab. In   a bold move, Ford also kitted out the Super Duty with a suite of   cameras designed to substantially improve towing and backing   maneuvers. ’ ’   But the biggest “if” for   loyalists over the past two   years has been the switch from steel to aluminum construction,   intended to decrease weight and improve fuel economy so that the   automaker’s    vehicles don’t get regulated out of   existence as federal and state mileage and emissions standards   intensify.  ’ ’   The change was trickier for   buyers than it was for Super   Duty folks. ’ ’   “There was no convincing process,” said Rathsburg. “    customers get it. They were more receptive than 150 customers   because many of them were familiar with the material. The trailer   industry has already gone there. ” ’ ’  ’ ’   Beyond customers, there was the attention that the Ford brass   devoted to the Super Duty, which had been updated several times   since 1999 but not completely rethought. ’ ’   That pressure fell squarely on Craig Schmatz, the Super Duty’s   chief engineer. He’s been working on tucks for 27 years, and this   was a crowning achievement. ’ ’   “It’s what I’ve always wanted to do,” he said. And he added that   the development of the new Super Duty stretched back several   years, beginning when the new   was first undertaken, due to   the shared cabs for each truck. ’ ’   “It was definitely special,” he said of the first planning   meetings. “The whole team was very charged up. We really wanted   to define what we could do with the vehicle. ” ’ ’   And Ford’s leadership wanted to see what they could do, too. And   they wanted to see it frequently. ’ ’   “We had all the standard meetings  —   and quite a few additional   ones to, make sure we were getting it right. But they trusted   what we were doing. ” ’ ’   But yet again, the toughest sell was to the customers.  ’ ’   “They’re very much into the details, and they know what the   competition is up to,” Schmatz said. “And that’s good. We’re   happy that they know their vehicles. ” ’ ’   They didn’t remain quiet when the saw something they didn’t like.   Schmatz recalled that commercial buyers who didn’t want a   conventional pickup bed but intended to have a box mounted behind   the cab identified some design issues early in 2016 that they   didn’t like, so Ford’s engineers made adjustments.  ’ ’  ’ ’   The new Super Duty, it can fairly be argued, was Ford’s most   collaborative new vehicle of the past two decades. It was so   collaborative that Ford’s design team conducted preliminary   research to assess what kind of people would be using the truck. ’ ’   “We call them ‘bold guardians,’” said Gordon Platto, the Super   Duty’s chief designer, of the customer archetype. ’ ’   “They’re not into being intimidating, but they want to back up   what they say. They want the Super Duty’s grille to fill the   rearview of any car they’re behind. ”  ’ ’   But those customers also understand that there’s tough, and   there’s too tough. ’ ’   “You don’t want anyone thinking the truck can deliver more than   it’s capable of  —   you don’t want something that overpromises. If   it looked like a big industrial earth mover, that would have been   too much. ”  ’ ’   The bottom line for Ford is that there’s no way to fool around   with the Super Duty owner. They’re the most demanding buyers on   the planet. ’ ’  ’ ’   “We have saying called ‘RTF’ or ‘run to failure,” said Nate   Berges, who owns and operates an awning company in New Jersey and   maintains a small fleet of Ford Super Duty trucks of varying   ages. ’ ’   “We use our trucks to the max. I own the truck, and I’m not going   to baby it. I’m not light on the pedal because I’m pulling every   bit of horsepower from the engine. We do between 20 and 30 jobs a   day, and we’ll pull up, shut the truck off, and then fire the   truck back up, to go to the next job. We use the trucks, every   day, 365 days a year. They need to rise to the occasion. ” ’ ’   Berges has Super Duty’s in action that date back to the early   2000s and has been a longtime Ford customer, buying the trucks   since the 1980s. But loyalty hasn’t eased the demands he places   on the automaker. If anything, he expects more out of Ford. ’ ’   “It’s an investment,” he said, adding that buying a Super Duty is   almost like stretching his dollars. “I’m spending $50, 000 on   the trucks, and I want my money to go as far as it can. ” ’ ’   When Ford makes this group of its most hardcore buyers happy, it   knows it done something special  —   not to mention something that   helps the company in very tangible financial ways. Super Duty   trucks are hugely profitable, with the   overall making a   major contribution to Ford’s ability to turn in string earnings   in good times and ride out the bad stretches. ’ ’    “Watching the trucks rolling off the assembly line is   outstanding,” Schmatz said, speaking from the Ford factory in   Kentucky. “Seeing them actually being built is the most rewarding   thing. ”  ’