”   Some iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus owners are reporting that the   touch screens on their phones aren’t registering their fingers’   touch anymore, according to the tech teardown and repair site   . ” ”   The issue seems to coincide with a flickering gray bar that   appears at the top of an affected iPhone’s screen. ” ’  ’ ”   That poses a huge problem as, apart from the physical buttons,   the iPhone’s touch screen is the primary way to use the device.   Without the ability to tap the screen, you essentially can’t do   anything with the iPhone, like   phone calls or   using apps. ” ”   Numerous people have . Many believe a recent iOS update may   be causing the problem, but iFixit’s report says the issue could   be caused by changes in the way Apple built the iPhone 6 Plus   compared with previous generations, which can lead to problems   with the parts that help register taps on a touch screen. ” ’  ’ ”   In iFixit’s report, the tech repair company iPad Rehab shows how   the relevant parts in an iPhone 5S are protected with a rigid   metal shield, whereas the same parts on the iPhone 6 Plus are   protected by a thin, flimsy film that doesn’t appear as if it   would protect the parts as well as the metal   shielding. ” ”   iPad Rehab suggests the relevant parts could become damaged when   the phone is flexed or bent over time, which links the touch   screen issue to the iPhone 6 Plus’ notorious Bendgate debacle,   where it was found to be able to bend relatively easily under a   certain amount of pressure. ” ’  ’ ”   It’s not clear if the issue arises when iPhone 6 Plus is visibly   bent, as it is in the picture above, or if the normal flexing and   bending that the phone is subject to during its lifetime is   enough to damage the relevant parts. None of the     posts on the forums reported that the affected iPhone 6 Plus was   bent. ” ”   Apple seems to have fixed the bending issue in the iPhone 6S   Plus, as it’s much harder to bend than its predecessor. No one in   the forums reported problems with the iPhone 6S Plus, either. ” ’   iPad Rehab also mentioned that the relevant parts in the iPhone 6   Plus aren’’t supported by an extra layer of material called   ”underfill” that’’s found in the iPhone 5S, which could help   prevent issues caused by physical stress on the iPhone 6 Plus. ’ ’   Apple seems to  and recommends that   affected users check out a support page . ’ ”   If Apple’s recommended fixes don’t work and your iPhone is under   warranty, you may have to get a free replacement. If it’s not,   you may have to buy a new phone outright, as Apple hasn’t yet   initiated a repair or replacement program specifically for this   issue. ” ’   Business Insider has reached out to Apple for a comment on the   issue, but the company has yet to respond. ’