’  ’ ’   Uber is experimenting with new pricing that lets passengers   prepurchase rides in its cars at a flat, preset price. ’ ”   The way Uber’s pricing works now depends on time and distance   traveled plus surge pricing, a multiple added to the ride during    . It’s a system that’s detested because a $5 ride can   easily become a $25 trip if you’re not careful. ” ’   Starting in September, Uber is saying   to surge pricing   by quietly letting a small group of riders pay a different way by   charging only a flat fee per ride. ’ ’   ” ’ ’   Business Insider stumbled across the test after only getting an   email to try out the beta in San Francisco. ’ ’  ’ ’   According to the invite, in San Francisco I can choose from a   package of 20 trips for $20 or 40 trips for $30 for September. ’ ’   After I pay for the package, I have either 20 or 30 rides to use   at a   price. If I go above the number of prequalified   rides  —   or above the $20 ride limit  —   then I start paying out of   pocket. ’ ’   In San Francisco, the flat fare is $2 for an UberPool ride, its     option, or $7 for an UberX, a private car to myself. ’ ”   If someone takes all 20 rides on UberPool, then they’ll be paying   a total of $60 for 20 rides, or only $3 a piece. In San   Francisco, that’s only $0. 75 more than the bus and way less   than the $5 to $8 I typically pay for an UberPool ride. ” ”   While Uber hasn’t publicly commented on the success of other   experiments like this one, the fact that it’s repeating it in   larger markets could signal that it could become more widespread. ” ’   In July, Uber tested a similar $0. 01  in Boston that had the same upfront cost   structure and   rides after that. While it was limited to   one month in one location, the September tests are spread across   six metros, including Miami, San Diego, Boston, Seattle, and   Washington, DC. ’ ’   In DC, for example, UberPool   rides will be as cheap as   $1. Other cities will be as high as $3. For solo UberX, the   testing ranges in the six locations are between $5 and $9. ’