’  ’ ’   Independent presidential candidate Evan McMullin told Business   Insider in a Wednesday interview that members of Republican   nominee Donald Trump’’s campaign have told him that the   Manhattan billionaire has times where he ”hides in his apartment”   and they’’re growing ”frustrated.” ’ ’   Trump recently restructured his campaign, bringing on Breitbart   News executive chairman Steve Bannon and pollster Kellyanne   Conway to run it. ’ ’   Previous campaign chair Paul Manafort stepped down last week   after reports tied him to cash from   entities in   Ukraine. ’ ’   McMullin said that it’’s ”unclear” whether Trump ”will make it   through this campaign.” ’ ’   ”He’’s taken some desperate measures with firing his campaign   manager and hiring another one, wild swings in his policy   positioning,” he said. ”I mean, he’’s desperate.” ’ ’   ”I’’m hearing from people inside his campaign that there are times   now when he hides in his apartment and doesn’’t meet with any   people,” he continued. ”When he campaigns he goes out to a place   he has to fly back home to New York. This is a fragile man and a   fragile campaign and I’’m not quite sure what’’s going to happen in   the days and weeks ahead of him. I’’m not sure the [Republican   National Committee] can continue to support him given his   weakness as a man and as a politician and as a candidate for the   presidency.” ’ ’   He added that his contacts within the Trump campaign, which he   did not name, told him that they’’re ”frustrated” with ”the   candidacy, with the organization, with Donald Trump’’s failure to   stay on message.” ’ ’   Over the past week, Trump has read prepared speeches during his   rallies, a switch from the   style that he   previously employed. ’ ”   Business Insider reached out to Trump’s campaign for comment, but   they did not immediately respond. ” ”   McMullin recently decided to embark on an independent   candidacy after being dissatisfied by Trump and Democratic   nominee Hillary Clinton. He said that he’s the only true   conservative in the race. McMullin previously worked as a CIA   operative and a policy director for the House Republican   Conference. ” ’ ’