’  ’ ’   Back in April, Russian billionaire Yuri Milner pledged $100   million toward a crazy plan to visit another star system. ’ ’   The mission  —     —   aims to get this done by propelling   teeny, tiny spaceships to  with powerful lasers. ’ ’   Milner and famed physicist Stephen Hawking initially said their   destination would be Alpha Centauri: the   star   system to Earth, located some 4. 37   (25. 7 trillion   miles) away. ’ ’   But as far as anyone knows, Alpha Centauri is bereft of habitable   worlds. ’ ’   This is precisely why the recent and  could switch   things up for Starshot. ’ ”   Astronomers on Wednesday announced they’d discovered an     and potentially habitable world, called Proxima b,   circling Proxima Centauri  —    that’s closer than Alpha Centauri by about 1   trillion miles. ” ’   ”The discovery . .. provides an obvious target for a flyby   mission,” Avi Loeb, a physicist at Harvard University and a    wrote in an email to   Business Insider. ’ ’   ”A spacecraft equipped with a camera and various filters could   take color images of the planet and infer whether it is green   (harboring life as we know it) blue (with water oceans on its   surface) or just brown (dry rock),” Loeb wrote. ’ ’   The team hopes to ”achieve a launch in   decades,” says Loeb,   and reach Proxima Centauri about 20 years later. ’ ’   The photos, meanwhile, would take at least 4. 24 years  —   the   distance in   from here to the star  —   to get back to   Earth. ’ ’   Adding up that timeline, Starshot thinks it could take photos of   Proxima b (plus whatever else its nanocraft encounter there) by   the year 2060. ’ ’  ’ ’   Milner said in April that Starshot will start out as a $100   million engineering    to design, build, launch,   and propel a small fleet of   ”nanocraft” to Alpha   Centauri in about 25 years’’ time. ’ ’   Each nanocraft will contain a tiny spacecraft and a     sail for propulsion. ”This is the Silicon valley approach to   spaceflight,” Milner said. ’ ’  ’ ’   The hypothetical spacecraft, called StarChip, will be built out   of a ” ” silicon wafer that’’s ”carrying cameras, photon   thrusters, power supply, navigation and communication equipment,   and constituting a fully functional space probe.” ’ ’   Moving each StarChip along will be a Lightsail propulsion unit. ’ ’   An  will take aim at the   Lightsails, accelerating each nanocraft to more than 134 million   mph. ’ ’  ’ ”   At this point Starshot already has a prototype for the StarChip   (pictured in Milner’s hand at the top of this post). ” ”   It’s smaller than an iPhone, and it will be backed with cameras,   photon thrusters, power supply, navigation, and communication   equipment. ” ’   But Loeb said the next 5 to 10 years of the project  —   and most of   the $100 million  —   will be focused on . ’ ’   From there they’’ll work on perfecting the tiny ships, Loeb said,   noting that a beamer ”could potentially launch hundreds of cheap,     spacecrafts per year.” ’ ’   ”This will allow us to send a fleet of probes towards Proxima   that could relay the images taken back to Earth more easily (from   one spacecraft to the next along the line of sight to Proxima),”   he said. ’ ’   Noting that exisiting telescopes can’’t photograph the new planet,   at least in a conventional sense, Loeb added: ”The curiosity to   know more about the planet (most importantly whether it hosts   life) will give the Starshot initiative a sense of urgency.” ’ ”   Even if Proxima b doesn’t support life, Loeb says it’s still   important to explore the    world. ” ’   ”The lifetime of Proxima is several trillion years, almost a   thousand times longer than the remaining lifetime of the Sun,” he   said. ’ ’   ”Hence, a habitable rocky planet around Proxima would be the most   natural location to where our civilization could aspire to move   after the Sun will die, five billions years from now.” (At least   one   author  though.) ’ ’  ’ ”   Milner’s fascination with space and science runs deep. ” ’   The first man in space was cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin  —   who Milner    he was named after. ’ ’   Milner has also spent big money on science initiatives before,    ”intellectual achievement” in the same   way we celebrate artistic and athletic prowess. ’ ’   The Russian billionaire philanthropist has collaborated with   Hawking in the past, too. In July 2015, the two announced a $100   million plan, called ”,” to search the stars for intelligent extraterrestrial   life. ’ ’   Milner was even working on a PhD in physics before becoming a   Silicon Valley investor, where he earned his fortune investing in   companies like Facebook, Twitter, Spotify, and Groupon. ’ ’   Today he funds some of the biggest science prizes out there,   including the Breakthrough Prize, which Mark Zuckerberg also   supports. ’ ’ Kevin Loria and Lauren Friedman contributed to this   post. ’