’  ’ ’   Netflix just dropped the trailer for a new documentary, ”Audrie   and Daisy,” that covers the harrowing details surrounding   the sexual assault cases and subsequent harassment of Daisy   Coleman and Audrie Pott.  ’ ”   Both girls’ cases tell a story that has become dismayingly   similar to  involving a Stanford University swimmer   convicted of sexually assaulting a woman earlier this year. ” ’   Coleman and Pott were both sexually assaulted in 2012, while   unconscious and intoxicated, both had pictures and videos taken   of them while passed out, both faced incessant bullying and   harassment in the aftermath as they tried to pull their lives   back together, and none of their alleged abusers faced   significant consequences. ’ ’   Coleman, after being sexually assaulted and videotaped while she   was passed out,  against her alleged abuser, Matthew   Barnett, who was a football player and the grandson of a Missouri   state representative. ’ ’   The charges against Barnett were dropped without any   explanation. ’ ”   When Coleman’s mother tried to ask questions, she apparently lost   her job. The family moved out of Maryville shortly after, and   their Maryville home was burned to the ground a few months later. ” ’   Daisy claims she faced brutal harassment and bullying after her   alleged assault, including being targeted on social media, being   called derogatory names, and being told she had been ”asking for   it.” Since then, Daisy has made repeated attempts to take her own   life and is in therapy.  ’ ’  ’ ”   Audrie Pott was a pretty and popular student at Saratoga High   School in California when one night of partying . Audrie was at a party at a friend’s   place where she allegedly became unconscious after drinking too   much. ” ’   At some point during the night, she was taken to a bedroom, had   her clothes stripped off, and had various parts of her body,   including her cleavage and genital region, drawn on with Sharpie.   While she was still unconscious, the three boys who were with her   allegedly digitally penetrated her. ’ ’   She woke up the next morning with Sharpie marks all over her body   and no recollection of what had happened the night before,   but she started to piece together the details when she found out   there had been pictures taken of her when she was naked and   unconscious.  ’ ’   Despite being devastated over the events of that night, Audrie   tried hard to get her life back to normal, but she found it   difficult after being subjected to vicious cyberbullying and   harassment when the photos of her spread among her peers. A few   days into the start of her sophomore year of high school, Audrie   Pott hanged herself. ’ ”   One of the boys’ parents took him out of Saratoga High School and   enrolled him at another school, where he was allowed to play   football. The other two boys remained at Saratoga. ” ’   ”Audrie and Daisy” delves into the details of what happened in   both girls’’ cases and explores the question of why, as one person   in the documentary’’s trailer put it, it has become ”more   important to shield the boys than it [is] to find justice for the   girls.”  ’ ’   The documentary was played at the Sundance Film Festival earlier   this year and will premier in theaters and on Netflix on   September 23.  ’ ’ ’