’  ’ ’Sean Hannity, sitting comfortably in his     New York studios on a hot August afternoon, was on a   fiery rant. ’ ’   ”Honestly, I am tempted to just say I don’’t support any of you   people ever,” he barked. ’ ”   The Fox News host and conservative personality was fed up with   Republican leaders in Washington  —   and he wasn’t hiding it from   the millions of listeners tuned into his radio program. ” ’   ”If in 96 days Trump loses this election, I am pointing the   finger directly at people like [House Speaker] Paul Ryan and   [Senate Majority Leader] Mitch McConnell and Lindsey Graham and   John McCain and John Kasich and Ted Cruz  —   if he won’’t endorse  —     and Jeb Bush and everybody else that made promises they’’re not   keeping,”  later threatening to endorse Ryan’’s     primary challenger. ’ ”   The bombastic diatribe against the   GOP establishment   was nothing new from Hannity. For years, he had cast himself as   an outside crusader defending conservative values and principles   from a liberal president and, even worse, cowardly Republicans   who would allegedly bow to that president’s demands. ” ’   But in 2016, the criticism from Hannity and a vocal faction of   the conservative news media reached a fever pitch. The occasional   needling of Republicans morphed into   searing   criticism. Even figures like Ryan and Cruz, considered by most to   have   conservative credentials, were no longer safe. ’ ”   In fact, throughout the election season, it has appeared that   Republicans have fielded more attacks from their supposed friends   on the right than their political opponents on the left. It’s an   incidental twist, considering how Republicans helped foster the   growth of the conservative news media in order to avoid the   skewering of mainstream journalists. ” ”   Instead, it appears their plan of using friendly pundits to tap   directly into the vein of   Americans sympathetic to   their political views has backfired. That has boosted the   candidacy of Donald Trump, who last week  the former chair of the     Breitbart News, as his campaign’s CEO. ” ’   ”The analogy that I think of is somebody who has a baby alligator   in their bathtub and they keep feeding it and taking care of it,”   said Charlie Sykes, a popular conservative talk show host in   Wisconsin. ”And it’’s really cute when it’’s a baby alligator  —     until it becomes a   alligator and comes out and starts   biting you.” ’ ’   ”There’’s a certain sense that these guys were empowered, but they   were empowered when these guys thought they were on the same   side. There was a time when Breitbart was edgy, but on the   mainstream of conservative,” he said, referring to the  founded   by the late Andrew Breitbart. ”And people actually thought we   were all pulling in roughly the same direction.” ’ ’  ’ ’   ”I think that, in retrospect, they really did empower the   instruments of their own destruction,” Sykes said of the GOP. ’ ’The roots of the conservative news media industrial   complex came in the 1990s with the rise of three key   forces: Fox News, Rush Limbaugh, and Matt Drudge. ’ ’   All broke ground and revolutionized their respective platforms:   Fox News opinion programming on TV, Limbaugh on radio, and Drudge   on the web. ’ ’   In the years that followed, many emulated their successes. What   Limbaugh did with talk radio paved the way for hosts like   Hannity, Glenn Beck, Michael Savage, Laura Ingraham, Mark Levin,   and more. And what Drudge did with the internet helped spawn a   slew of conservative websites. Breitbart, TheBlaze, The Daily   Caller, Hot Air, and Townhall came online to serve a     audience with an insatiable appetite for news told   through a conservative lens. ’ ’   But in the 1990s, the conservative press was not very hostile to   politicians on the right. In its formative era, the     movement mostly played friendly with   Republicans. It instead spent its energy zeroing in on President   Bill Clinton. Perhaps the peak came with the Monica Lewinsky   scandal, during which the conservative media relentlessly   hammered the president. ’ ’   For the most part, Republicans and the conservative media existed   symbiotically. Republicans used their newfound apparatus as a   vehicle to drive home their message to supporters.   Simultaneously, the conservative news media sought to lock in its   audience by characterizing the mainstream press as an industry   comprising dishonest liberals  —   something with which the GOP was   more than happy to go along. ’ ’   ”What it became, essentially, was they were preaching this is the   only place you can get news. This is the only place you can   trust. All other media outlets are lying to you. So you need to   come to us,” said Ted Newton, president of Gravity Strategic   Communications and former communications adviser to 2012   Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney. ’ ’   ”And so in an attempt to capture an audience, they almost made   them slaves to those news outlets. So there is a whole group of   people who will only watch Fox, who will only read Breitbart. And   they are living in a bubble,” he added. ’ ”   Toward the end of President George W. Bush’s second term, the   symbiotic relationship showed signs of souring. Establishment   figures inside the GOP supported immigration reform and a bailout   at the height of the 2008 recession. Conservative talkers didn’t. ” ’   As the years progressed, it became increasingly clear the   entertainment wing of the party had seized control. Republicans   tried to play friendly with them, giving credence to the industry   by lavishing praise, submitting editorials, and granting access,   but more and more they were whipped by media figures on the right   for supposedly not being conservative enough. ’ ’Fast forward to the beginning of the 2016 election   cycle. To avoid being called a RINO (Republican in name   only) a Republican would have to take a hardline conservative   position on nearly every issue. If, say, they were to hold   conservative positions on 90% of the issues, the conservative   press would focus on the 10% where there was disagreement. ’ ’   It appeared that, for conservative media, only one candidate   could be conservative enough to support for president: Cruz. ’ ’   The Texas senator had carefully struck a balance between the   various facets of the GOP, positioning himself as traditionally   conservative on most issues, but one with a libertarian streak.   That made him wildly popular with the conservative press leading   up to 2016, and it appeared he had checked all the necessary   boxes to easily win approval from its members. ’ ’   But something went awry. The most aggressive   members   of the conservative press  —   the members who constantly lambasted   certain Republicans for not toeing the   line on every   issue  —   got : Donald Trump. ’ ’   ”America is a great place to make a living off an identity   crisis. I mean, these guys just sold out to the highest bidder,”   said Rick Tyler, the former communications director for Cruz’’s   presidential campaign. ”If you’’re a conservative, you couldn’’t   have possibly gotten on board with Trump. It’’s not reconcilable.” ’ ’   Trump, of course, was not a man known for his conservative   credentials. On a host of issues normally instrumental to winning   the support of the conservative media, he had famously taken   liberal positions. Even while running in the primaries, he   . ’ ’   Trump fired up crowds with  said it was a   disastrous mistake to go into Iraq, and got behind       —   all things that would   normally send the conservative press into a frenzy. ’ ’  ’ ’   But the loudest voices on the right got behind him. Drudge,   Breitbart, Hannity, and   conservative author Ann   Coulter all supported his candidacy. ’ ’   Even more surprising, however, was that these very same voices   were somehow able to turn the most beloved conservatives into   pariahs. ’ ”   Sen. Marco Rubio was pummeled for supporting comprehensive   immigration reform. Conspiracy theories about Cruz’s father and   personal life circulated. And Ryan, considered to be the most   conservative House speaker in a generation, was characterized as   an . ” ’   ”We have reached the   point where, for all intents   and purposes, conservatives are RINOs,” said John Ziegler, a   nationally syndicated conservative talk show host who called   Andrew Breitbart a friend. ”There is no place now for real   conservatives. We’’ve also reached the point, I say, we’’ve left   the gravitational pull of the rational Earth, where we are now in   a situation where facts don’’t matter, truth doesn’’t matter, logic   doesn’’t matter.” ’ ’   Newton echoed that sentiment. ’ ’   ”You look at someone who a few cycles might have been derided as   a   lunatic, now they aren’’t conservative enough,” he   said. ”People who were darlings of the conservative movement are   now RINOs. I consider myself a fairly conservative person on most   issues, and you wouldn’’t believe the kind of hate that is being   spewed at me on Twitter. The pendulum has definitely swung.” ’ ”How to make sense of this? Perhaps it was   Trump’s combative style that attracted a chunk of the   conservative press. ” ’   Ryan Williams, former deputy national press secretary for   Romney’’s presidential campaign and senior vice president of   communications at FP1 Strategies, said he believed some   conservative pundits were ”just drawn to Trump’’s style more than   policies.” ’ ’   ”I think that some of them just like Trump and were willing to   cut him some slack on his shifting of positions because he’’s a   fighter and they like that,” Williams said. ”He is running a     kind of campaign. They were willing to give him   leeway.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Leon Wolf, managing editor at RedState, made a similar argument   in more colorful terms. Homing in on Drudge and Breitbart, Wolf   said some are ”naturally attracted to obnoxious people who are   largely ignorant of actual policy.” ’ ’   Ratings may have also played a role, according to conservative   talkers who refused to jump aboard the Trump train. ’ ’   Beck, one of the   conservative radio hosts in the   country and founder of TheBlaze, said he’’s sure ”there are those   who believe” what they say, but pointed to numbers when asked why   so many of his colleagues  —   many of whom he calls friends  —   have   embraced Trump. ’ ’   ”I believe there are people doing this for ratings or hits,” he   told Business Insider. ’ ’   Trump has undoubtedly been a ratings booster for the media   throughout the 2016 cycle. His outlandish style, mixed with his   unpredictable personality, makes campaign events, interviews, and   debates   television. ’ ’   And the former   star realized the power of this, using   his ability to generate eyeballs to reward and punish members of   the media, depending on their coverage. ’ ”   For example, Trump famously boycotted Fox News for weeks,   claiming the network’s coverage was unfair. Eventually, however,   he returned to the cable news channel and started granting   regular interviews to its more favorable hosts. That appeared to   pay off for the personalities who scored him as a routine guest. ” ’   ”This has been a record ratings year for my show,” Hannity said   in an email to Business Insider. ’ ’   Hannity in particular has faced criticism from some colleagues in   the   sphere who allege he has been too cozy   with Trump. Ziegler, the conservative radio host, said there’’s   ”there’’s no question” a ”monetary element” drove coverage   overall. ’ ’   ”Hannity is desperate for every ratings crumb on the Fox News   Channel. . .. It’’s all about ratings,” he said. ”Hannity is not   particularly talented, he’’s not a smart guy  —   he used to just be   a Republican talking points talk show host who happened to be in   the right place at the right time. So he’’s very vulnerable at any   time. He’’s not entertaining, so he constantly has to make sure   his ratings are at the top of the Fox News primetime schedule. So   when he started doing Trump material and his ratings go up, he   benefited.” ’ ’Those who constitute the   wing of   conservative media boldly defend their coverage and say   their critics have them all wrong. ’ ’   Hannity fired back at Ziegler for suggesting his support of Trump   was a ploy to score higher ratings. ’ ’   ”I do not know him or care about him. Clearly he is desperate for   attention, as he seems incapable of keeping a job in this   industry,” Hannity said in a statement. ”He obviously knows   nothing about me.” ’ ’   The Fox News host added: ”I simply love my country, far more than   ’’ratings,’’ and I clearly prefer Donald Trump’’s positions on the   issues over Hillary Clinton’’s positions.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Hannity told Business Insider that his brazen criticism of the   House speaker was warranted, arguing that ”unfortunately,” Ryan,   ”like some other national Republicans,” chose to ”be more harsh   in his criticism of Donald Trump than he has ever been toward   either President Obama or former Secretary Hillary Clinton.” ’ ’   He pointed to five specific ”failures” of GOP leadership,   including its inability to ”repeal any aspect of Obamacare or   defund it” and the ”record [national] debt that they failed to   stop or take a tough stand on.” ’ ’   Moreover, Hannity said that Trump’’s proposals look ”like an   agenda that any conservative would support.” He listed 10 points,   including the   mogul’’s promise to appoint conservative   justices, secure the   border, and fix the Department of   Veterans Affairs. ’ ”   Others supportive of Trump and critical of the broader GOP   mirrored Hannity’s arguments. ” ’   Matthew Boyle, the Washington political editor for Breitbart   News, said his news organization’’s goal was to ”hold the global   permanent political class in contempt.” ’ ’   ”We are doing what journalists throughout said mainstream media   are supposed to do: challenge the conventional wisdom, hold   politicians’’ feet to the fire, ask tough questions, report facts   that are in many cases inconvenient truths for career   politicians, and give a voice to the millions of people worldwide   who have had theirs taken away from them by world elites who   consider the ordinary person beneath them,” Boyle said, pointing   to Breitbart’’s record July traffic as evidence Americans ”hunger   for something different.” ’ ’   And Coulter pushed back against the vilification of     in the conservative press, characterizing many of   those lobbing bombs as irrelevant players in the movement. ’ ’   The   author also argued that ”there’’s an awful lot”   of conservative media, but that she could only ”count on one hand   the number of conservative talk radio hosts who support Donald   Trump, or certainly who did from the beginning.” ’ ’   ”I guess there’’s one website, if we are not including the Drudge   Report   …     but there aren’’t many of them!” she said. ’ ”The hole in Coulter’s argument is that while   there are other outlets that belong to the conservative media   apparatus, they lack the influence of the hard right. The   National Review or Weekly Standard might earn the eyeballs of   elites in Washington, but those in the heartland seem to prefer   the style of the more aggressive   outlets. ” ”   That has left conservatives who oppose Trump in a tricky position   when trying to get their message to supporters. No longer can   Ryan or Cruz turn to Hannity for a softball interview. They can’t   work with Breitbart or rely on Drudge to help with their   legislative agenda. ” ’   These Republicans have effectively been exiled from the   conservative news media, leaving them with a problem. ’ ’   ”They don’’t have any place to go. How else do you get your   message out? You can’’t do it in the mainstream. This is the way   you reach conservatives,” Ziegler said. ”We have taught   conservatives for many years to trust nothing other than what   they hear in conservative media. Yet the conservative media has   now proven to be untrustworthy.” ’ ’   ”You have to go to the old mainstream media and at the end of the   day, you will be the only reasonable, rational conservative   standing,” Sykes said. ”That would be the   scenario.” ’ ’   A senior communications aide who has worked for top Republicans   on Capitol Hill lamented about the problem he regularly faces,   arguing that ”most” of the reporters who constitute the   mainstream press ”are biased.” The aide said that it is instead   best to work with ”alternative and smaller media on the right.” ’ ”   One of those outlets could be Beck’s TheBlaze. (Full   disclosure: This author worked there for nearly three   years.) The conservative news website has a large readership    —   visited by more than 6 million readers in July, according to   Quantcast. ” ’   ”When it comes to TheBlaze, we are not feeding red meat. We are  —     there are people who are on the air who are   and    . There are writers who are pro and against. So we are   not just feeding red meat,” Beck said. ”We are trying to toe the   line, at least that’’s my understanding from TheBlaze. We are not   picking a candidate where everyone else in the mainstream media,   they are picking a candidate. Look at Breitbart and Drudge; they   are picking a candidate.” ’ ’Some conservatives tried to fight back against   Trump, pleading with their audiences to see what they   contended to be the rational point of view, but their arguments   seemed to go unheard. ’ ’   One of the chief problems, Sykes said, was that it had become   impossible to prove to listeners that Trump was telling   falsehoods because over the past several decades, the   conservative news media had ”basically eliminated any of the   referees, the gatekeepers.” ’ ’   ”There’’s nobody,” he lamented. ”Let’’s say that Donald Trump   basically makes whatever you want to say, whatever claim he wants   to make. And everybody knows it’’s a falsehood. The big question   of my audience, it is impossible for me to say that, ’’By the way,   you know it’’s false. ’’ And they’’ll say, ’’Why? I saw it on Allen B.   West. ’’ Or they’’ll say, ’’I saw it on a Facebook page. ’’ And I’’ll   say, ’’The New York Times did a fact check. ’’ And they’’ll say, ’’Oh,   that’’s The New York Times. That’’s    . ’’ There’’s nobody  —   you   can’’t go to anybody and say, ’’Look, here are the facts. ’’” ’ ’   ”And I have to say that’’s one of the disorienting realities of   this political year. You can be in this alternative media reality   and there’’s no way to break through it,” Sykes continued. ”And I   swim upstream because if I don’’t say these things from some of   these websites, then suddenly I have sold out. Then they’’ll ask   what’’s wrong with me for not repeating these stories that I know   not to be true.” ’ ’   Ziegler said he faced much of the same problem. ’ ’   ”If you are a conservative talk show host, which I am, if you   don’’t accept that it’’s likely Hillary Clinton has taken part in   multiple murders, or that Barack Obama is a Muslim extremist   sympathizer who was probably born outside this country  —   if you   don’’t accept those two things, it’’s almost as if you’’re a   sellout. You’’re a RINO. You’’re somehow part of the liberal elite.   It’’s nuts. It’’s making my own show very difficult to do. It’’s   almost where to the point where we are not able to function.” ’ ’   He continued: ”It’’s almost like it’’s a disease, and it’’s taken   over people. I don’’t remember this being the case four years ago.   But something has happened. Something snapped. But now all of a   sudden, if a story comes out, and it’’s not on Breitbart or   endorsed by Drudge, it can’’t be true. Especially if it’’s about   Donald Trump. Which is   ludicrous.” ’ ”   Asked why none of his criticism of Trump seemed to put a   crack in the   mogul’s armor, Beck paused. ” ’   ”I think that people are very lost, and they don’’t know what to   do at this point.” ’ ’Those who have been ostracized by the outsize influence   of the   in conservative media believe  —   or at   least hope  —   Armageddon is on the horizon. ’ ’   ”When this is all over, we have to go back. There’’s got to be a   reckoning on all this,” Sykes said. ”We’’ve created this monster.” ’ ’   ”And look, I’’m a conservative talk show host. All conservative   hosts have basically established their brand as being contrasted   to the mainstream media. So we have spent 20 years demonizing the   liberal mainstream media. And by the way, a lot of it has been   justifiable. There is real bias,” he continued. ’ ’   ”But at a certain point you wake up and you realize you have   destroyed the credibility of any credible outlet out there,”   Sykes said. ”And I am feeling, to a certain extent, that we are   reaping the whirlwind at that. And I have to look in the mirror   and ask myself, ’’To what extent did I contribute? ’’” ’ ’   Beck expressed hope that conservatives would wake up and   eventually reward those who did not falter on their convictions. ’ ’   ”I do believe in the long run only those who stayed true to their   principles are going to be the ones that remain standing. How   long that takes?” he asked. ”I don’’t know.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Ziegler said he wanted to see the entire system torpedoed and   rebuilt. ’ ’   ”I think the conservative media is the worst thing that has ever   happened to the Republican Party on a national level,” he said. ’ ’   ”Now, this is not Rush’’s fault, but if you look at the   presidential elections before Rush Limbaugh became nationally   syndicated, I believe Republicans won five out of six,” he said.   ”After Rush Limbaugh became truly nationally syndicated . .. if   you start in 1996 and what I anticipate will happen in 2016,   Republicans will have lost five of the seven presidential   elections once he became syndicated.” ’ ’   Ziegler said that if there is no price to pay for Trump’’s most   enthusiastic backers in the conservative press, then ”it’’s over.” ’ ’   ”The conservative establishment that needs to be gotten rid of is   the conservative media establishment. Sean Hannity needs to go.   Bill O’’Reilly needs to go. Sadly, Rush Limbaugh needs to go,” he   said. ’ ’   The talk show host concluded: ”Here’’s what I’’ll be very   disappointed in: If Trump does lose, as I am very confident that   he will, and let’’s say it’’s not super close, if he loses by a   significant margin and Sean Hannity and people like him have not   experienced some significant career pain, if not destruction,   because of their role, then it’’s over. It is over.” ’ ’   ”Because if there is no price to pay for     elements having sold out to Donald Trump, then guess what? It’’s   going to happen again and again and again. . .. If that doesn’’t   happen, then I think we’’re done. It’’s over.” ’