The fire that killed at least 30 people in a    space in Oakland, Calif. on Friday was one of the deadliest in the United States in many years, a tragedy that highlighted both the importance of fire safety codes and the vital role they have played in turning mass casualty blazes into rare events. They have become infrequent thanks to safety measures that started to emerge at the turn of the 20th century, when fires at theaters and nightclubs not infrequently killed hundreds of people. “The adoption and implementation of fire codes, having an effective enforcement system that’s been put in place at the city, county or state level  —   those have been the key elements that have made the difference we have seen,” said James Pauley, president of the National Fire Protection Association. “When a deadly fire happens it is usually because something isn’t followed or something goes wrong or we learn something new.” He pointed to the first standards for sprinkler installation and the construction of fire escape routes, implemented in the early 1900s, as a watershed moment for fire safety. Many of the new standards were motivated largely by deadly blazes like the Triangle fire in 1911, which claimed 146 lives in New York. The Oakland fire highlighted the unique danger faced by what experts call “assembly occupancy” buildings like theaters and nightclubs, where large numbers of people are typically crammed into one or two big, often darkened spaces with a handful of exits. Venues like that were at particular risk in the 19th and early 20th century. A fire at the Iroquois Theatre in Chicago killed 602 people in 1903 and one at the Coconut Grove nightclub in Boston killed 492 people in 1943, according to a report by the National Fire Protection Association. The space in Oakland appears to have been especially vulnerable: it was a warehouse that had been converted into a makeshift nightclub and labyrinth of artist studios spread across two floors connected by a rickety staircase made of wooden pallets. The building had only two exits. Theater and nightclub fires, both today and in the past, tend to have a few things in common: overcrowding, combustible interior decorations, inadequate exits or stairwells, and heat sources like candles, stage lights or pyrotechnics that can spark a blaze. That was the case in the last mass casualty fire that struck an American nightclub. One hundred people died when a pyrotechnic display at a concert in West Warwick, R. I. started a fire that consumed the Station nightclub in a matter of minutes in 2003. The walls were covered in flammable material and the building had no sprinklers, allowing the flames to spread rapidly, according to a report on the disaster  by the National Institute of Standards and Technology, an agency of the Department of Commerce. The scene was captured on video by a local TV news cameraman who was filming a segment inside the club when the fire began. Panicked patrons can be seen scrambling for the front door, and concertgoers trampled one another as a bottleneck formed. The most recent mass casualty blaze in the United States, until the Oakland fire, occurred at a Texas fertilizer plant in 2013, when a deliberately set fire set off an ammonium nitrate explosion that killed 15 people, injured 260 more and damaged buildings across the town of West. Perhaps the greatest danger when it comes to fire safety is complacency, Mr. Pauley said  —   a feeling people may develop that disaster is unlikely to strike them because it hasn’t so far. That can manifest itself in many small but dangerous ways: a blocked fire escape or broken sprinkler system that is never addressed because it has never been needed. “Fire is not one of the things that is generally on people’s minds today as something that they need to be concerned about,” Mr. Pauley said.