’  ’ ’   Just one day after  of Iranian ships swarming and harassing the USS   Nitze, Business Insider has confirmed a separate incident on   Wednesday involving the USS Squall, a   ship, in the   northern Arabian Gulf. ’ ”   Cmdr. Bill Urban of the US Navy’s Fifth Fleet told Business   Insider that several incidents occurred where Iranian navy ships   showed wanton disregard for safety and internationally recognized   maritime law.  ” ’   The USS Tempest and USS Squall were ”operating in   international waters of the northern Arabian Gulf when three   IRGCN [Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps Navy] vessels approached   at high speed.” The vessels veered within 600 yards of the US   Navy ships despite auditory and visual warnings from their crews. ’ ’   Later on, Urban says a       craft charged the Tempest and came within 200 yards. At this   point the Tempest fired three flares at the Iranian vessel. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”This situation presented a drastically increased risk of   collision,” Urban said in an email to Business Insider. ’ ’   ”Ultimately, Squall resorted to firing three warning shots from   their   gun, which caused the Iranian vessel to turn   away.” ’ ”   Finally, two of the same craft from the second encounter   harassed the   destroyer USS Stout, repeatedly   crossing in front of the ship’s bow. The Stout maneuvered away   without incident.  ” ’   Urban stressed that the Navy had been operating in international   waters and in accordance with international law. ’ ’   Reuters notes that the recent uptick in incidents between Iranian   and US vessels harkens back to the    somewhat normalized relations. ’ ’   However, the hardline Iranian Revolutionary Guard, which has   lobbied against the nuclear deal, has continued to seek to   increase tensions with the US. In June, Iran briefly captured 11   US sailors in the same region and went on to frame the capture as   a . ’ ’   The US and Iran are currently at odds, as Iran staunchly   supports Syrian dictator Bashar Assad, who Obama has . Also, Iran is   openly hostile toward Israel, a major US ally.  ’