’  ’ ’   Maine Governor Paul LePage said at a town hall meeting on   Wednesday night in North Berwick that he keeps a binder of photos   of arrested drug dealers, and that ”    percent. ..are ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’     Andrew Ritchie:  As you know, Maine has a problem with     ”brain drain”  and I’’m just wondering . .. I’’m currently an     entrepreneur in New York now . .. I just wanted to know, given     the rhetoric you put out there about people of color in Maine,     calling them drug dealers et cetera, how can I bring a company     here given the toxic environment you create? The     confederate flags I see up there . .. that I used to not see so     many of.   ’ ’     Gov. LePage: Confederate flag?   ’ ’     [inaudible from someone else at the event] ’ ’     Ritchie: Well, I see on his Facebook . .. I see replies to you     . .. It seems like you are creating an environment where people     feel . ..    ’ ”     LePage: First of all, sir. You don’t see that stuff on my     Facebook.   ” ’     Ritchie: In the comments section.   ’ ”     LePage: Oh the comments section? You are welcome to make any     comment you want. Let me tell you this, explain to you,     I made the comment that black people are trafficking in our     state, now ever since I said that comment I’ve been collecting     every single drug dealer who has been arrested in our state . ..     Sir, you are welcome to come look at them. You are welcome to     come look at them. I don’t ask them to come to Maine and     sell their poison, but they come and I will tell you that       percent of those pictures in my book, and it’s a       binder, are black and Hispanic people from     Waterbury, Connecticut, the Bronx, and Brooklyn. I     don’t make the rules. I’m going to tell you what’s happening.     Now, you can call it . ..   ” ’     Ritchie: Well, there are white drug dealers too. Maybe your     police are profiling.    ’ ”     LePage: No, there are white. There are a whole lot of white     girls too. A whole lot of white girls. In fact, almost in every     single picture is a white Maine girl in the picture. I’m not     suggesting, but I am telling    ” ’     Ritchie: You suggest . ..   ’ ”     LePage: I’m suggesting that the heroin being distributed in     Maine is essentially coming from Connecticut and New York. You     say white, black, or purple, green, white, or orange. The fact     of the matter is people from Connecticut and people from New     York are coming to Maine and they are killing our citizens. I’m     sorry, but that’s a fact.   ” ’     [audience applause]   ’ ”   LePage’s remarks at the town hall are the latest in a string of   comments the governor has made that have been perceived as racist   or inflammatory. ” ’   Earlier this year,  drug dealers with nicknames like ”    Smoothie, and Shifty” come to Maine to sell drugs and ” ’ ’’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’