’  ’ ”   Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton hasn’t held a   press conference in 2016 —  265 days and counting —  and grumblings   from the press have now built into a dull roar. ” ’   Clinton’’s campaign has said these complaints are not ”fair” since   Clinton has participated in more than 300    interviews   with the media so far this year. ’ ’   ”The real question here,” campaign manager Robby Mook told ”Face   the Nation” Sunday, ”is whether Secretary Clinton has been taking   questions from reporters, which she absolutely has.” ’ ’   But there are significant differences between doing a press   conference and holding a    interview: press conferences   are far less predictable and candidates often have little to gain   by submitting themselves to   questions on any topic. ’ ”   In interviews, by contrast, campaigns trade access to the   candidate for varying degrees of control over the interview   topics, logistics and even the interviewer’s questions. In this   setting, the power is decisively with the campaigns, which have a   variety of options  —   from newspapers to late night shows to   podcasts to cable news  —   to choose from. ” ’   One former Clinton advisor who was granted anonymity to speak   freely told VICE that there is little upside to a candidate   giving a press conference compared to an interview. ”A press   conference is just the news of the day and you are basically just   trying to get through it without making it a mistake,” the former   advisor said. ”It’’s just maintenance for the press. You do them   because the press yells and screams until you do them.” ’ ’  ’ ’   In an interview, he said, the campaign has more control. ”If the   press secretary is good, they have an extensive relationship with   the interviewer and can find out what they are going to drive at.   The questions are usually longer, the answers are usually   longer.” ’ ’   Republican political consultant John Weaver, a senior advisor and   strategist for several presidential campaigns including those of   Governor John Kasich and Senator John McCain, agrees that   candidates and their campaign teams prefer interviews. ”It’’s   often less adversarial,” he said. ”The dynamic is completely   different.” ’ ”   The more conversational format of formal interviews also plays to   Clinton’s strength as a wonk. She will sometimes return policy   memos to campaign aides with requests for more footnotes. ” ’   Many journalists argue that the openness of the forum and   randomness of the questions make press conferences a vital tool   for assessing   presidential aspirants. The   Washington Post’’sChris Cillizza  that Clinton   ”owes it to the public to demonstrate how she thinks on her feet   and how she responds to unwanted or tough questions. The best —  and   maybe only —  way to do that is via press conferences.” ’ ’   But political strategists on the right and the left tire of media   scolds who, they say, care more about getting attention than the   virtues of democracy. ”Reporters often perform for their   colleagues in press conferences,” Weaver said. ”Humans behave   differently when they are in a crowd or in a pack, whether they   want to admit it or not. When Hillary finally has a press   conference, everyone is going to play to the camera.” ’ ’   The same former Clinton aide said candidates he worked with only   participated in press conferences ”because the pain threshold of   not doing them at some point becomes too great.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Clinton’’s reluctance to stand in front of reporters and field   questions goes back to her time as First Lady in the 1990s. Back   then, she faced ethical questions surrounding what she believed   were   scandals and resisted prodding from aides to   confront the press directly. When she finally spent 70 minutes at   a press conference in 1994, she explained her aversion: ”I’’ve   always believed in a zone of privacy, and I told a friend the   other day that I feel after resisting for a long time I’’ve been   rezoned.” She promised that she had gained ”a much better   appreciation for what’’s expected.” ’ ’   But two decades later, in 2015, Clinton had to reiterate this   commitment in a keynote speech at a journalism award dinner in   Washington, DC. ”No more secrecy, no more zone of privacy,” she   pledged. ”After all, what good did that do me?” she asked,   acknowledging that her relationship with the Fourth Estate had   been contentious. ’ ’   Her attempts during this campaign did not go well. The     Q&As with journalists often resulted in negative   headlines and sound bites. ’ ’   In her inaugural press conference in March 2015, Clinton   responded to reporters’’ inquiries about her private email server   by claiming ”I did not email any classified material to anyone on   my email.” Defensively, she added that she was ”certainly     of the classification requirements and did not send   classified material.” Last month, FBI director James   Comey that this was a lie —  that   ”there was classified material emailed” —  testimony Clinton’’s   Republican opponents have been happy to highlight. ’ ’   Then in August 2015, the former secretary of state abruptly ended   a press conference after a tense exchange with a reporter about   her private email server. In that short time, she managed to make   headlines for a bad joke when the reporter asked if she had wiped   the server clean. ”What, like with a cloth or something?” she   said. ’ ’   These unforced errors have likely contributed to Clinton slipping   back into the familiar pattern of avoiding press conferences even   though it draws criticism from journalists and Republicans. Her   general election opponent, Donald Trump, this week launched a   daily ”Hiding Hillary Watch” tracking the days since her last   press conference. Eventually, a press conference is almost   certainly unavoidable, but her Clinton’’s pain threshold for   avoiding one could carry her past November. ’