’  ’ ’   Chocolate lovers are restless. Many    getting   smaller, or contain a lower cocoa content, so they just don’t   taste as good. ’ ’   When it comes to choosing a sweet treat, there seems to be a   greater range than ever  —   but, for many people, the bar they’ve   enjoyed all their lives just doesn’t seem the same. ’ ’   And the truth is, in a lot of cases, it isn’t. ’ ’   There’s a lot happening in the world of confectionery. The   industry manufactures an abundance of products, from the familiar   to the novel, but generating growth through new product   development is difficult because consumers can be reluctant to   try something new. So the acquisition of rival businesses may be   a preferred route to achieving sales growth. ’ ’   This challenge may explain why Mondelez International apparently   is    bringing together the Cadbury’s, Tobler and Terry’s brands with   Hershey and Reece’s. ’ ’   The chocolate industry is segregated into global mass producers   such as Mondelez, Mars and Nestle, proliferating bars, blocks and   bags of familiar brands, and the premium producers, typically   smaller organisations such as Hotel Chocolat, emphasising cocoa   content  —   and its origin  —   in . ’ ’     chocolate is undergoing rapid change. Dairy Milk   Marvellous Creations Mix Ups, for example, combines wine gums,   chocolates and biscuits, outputs from different Mondelez   businesses in a single bag. And Mondelez doesn’t stop there:   Dairy Milk Ritz embeds salty crackers in sweet chocolate. ’ ’   These products demonstrate the dual importance of cost reduction   and innovation. Costs are reduced by  between previously   independent business units, an important   agenda. ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tDairy Milk Ritz. Tiny salty biscuits half stuck to a thin layer of   choc. Nastiest sweet ever? Has Cadbury’s gone totally berserk? ’t’t” ’   In terms of innovation, novelty is achieved by stretching   familiar brands over to unfamiliar supermarket shelving  —   from   biscuits to chocolate or vice versa  —   thereby boosting   visibility. Additionally, the innovation of substituting   chocolate with biscuits and sweets lowers the cost of raw   materials. ’ ’   Adapting products is tricky. According to the concept of   “” new product development must   balance the quest for cost reduction with the . ’ ’   They all affect product preference. The challenge is to ensure   that cost reduction does not result in loss of function or   customer dissatisfaction. So, if a bar loses its straight edges   in favour of curves  —     —   any loss of substance () should be   compensated for by improved mouth feel or taste experience. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tYorkie. The chocolate bar that gets smaller every year but more expensive. I miss the chunky chocolate  ’ ’   But a balance between cost and function is not always achieved.   A  revealed the   widespread shrinking of grocery products with . As well   as the shrinking Dairy Milk bar, Creme Eggs have gone from being   sold in packs of six to five, Yorkie has been reduced to five   chunks.  although they   are less calorific. ’ ’   Why is chocolate   —   and how much   of a gamble is it for the manufacturers? ’ ’   The chocolate industry has an uneasy relationship with “newness”.   The desire to create something new must be balanced   by   —   the emotional connections   that occur through consumption . Chocolate eating   habits and preferences . ’ ’   The bestselling brands of Dairy Milk, Maltesers and KitKat are at   least 70 years old, suggesting that nostalgia is nothing new.   Consequently, the best way to innovate in chocolate bars is to   somehow rejuvenate known brands  —   the Kit Kat Chunky being one   such success. When it comes to chocolate bars, something entirely   new is unlikely to work. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tThe American food giant that brought Cadbury is now in talks about buying biscuits bearing the British brand’s name  ’ ’   Cost reduction and incremental product changes seem a logical   response to stagnating market growth,  and customers who are reluctant to try anything   new or pay more for   brands. Will this pattern of   acquisitions and value engineering benefit the consumer  —   or will   there be smaller products with less chocolate, thereby weakening   the connection between happy memories and what is eaten today? ’ ’   Premium chocolate manufacturers  —   such as  or  are different in form and   strategy. Innovations tend to showcase the ingredients  —   and   cocoa content becomes something to highlight rather than   something to be reduced. They also tend to stress their ethical   credentials such as fair trade and investing in producers. ’ ’   The differences between mass market and premium product   strategies create a dilemma for businesses wanting to be in both   sectors as each requires a different approach to cost management   and innovation. Go back 150 years and Cadbury’s found a   “ ” pioneering   production of chocolate   alongside ethical work practices  —   building the model town of   Bourneville with decent accommodation and an emphasis on the   health and education of its workforce. ’ ’   Today’s priorities are different  —   and if we want business   strategies to change, then consumers need to let go of their past   and create a new relationship with chocolate, one based on taste   and sustainable futures for cultivators and producers. We will,   however, need to pay more for it. ’