’  ’ ’   ”Looking at me, you’d never guess that in 2015, while working     as a reporter for KGO Radio, I became ’’intentionally   homeless,’’ begins Kristin Hanes in a  ’ ”   She was in her   and living on a journalist’s salary in a   city where the median rent price for a  She hated that she didn’t have   enough cash to pay down debt and save money, too. ” ’   So, she joined a gym, put her stuff in storage or otherwise   disposed of it, and moved into her car with her boyfriend where   they drove to various campgrounds at night. ’ ’   She didn’’t have a toilet or a kitchen or electricity or TV and   cable, but ”in the first 40 days alone, I paid off $3, 700 in debt   and saved $2, 500 on rent,” she says. ”And we had a blast,   roasting salmon in foil over campfires, playing guitar and   drinking beer under the pinprick lights of a thousand stars.” ’ ’   And on the weekends, with no home to clean or maintain, they were   free to travel out of town. ’ ’’ ’   During those months, she spent about $400 a month on living   expenses: $200 for the gym, $150 for the storage, and about $50 a   month for various camping costs. ’ ’   After four months, she felt that she had saved enough to go back   to the world of housing, and rented a room on a houseboat shared   with roommates. ’ ”   And then in May, . So she moved onto her   boyfriend’s sailboat, where they are both living full time. ” ’   ”I haven’’t found a job yet but am doing   voiceover work   in the Bay area, which still isn’’t enough to pay the rent   anywhere, not even a room in Oakland. So, for now, I will   continue living on my boyfriend’’s boat until I find a     job,” she tells Business Insider. ’ ”   She’s also freelancing and writing a blog about living on budget   living  ” ”   To save money this time, she gave up her car, bringing it to her   mom’s house in Portland along with the stuff that wouldn’t fit on   the boat. ” ’   Ironically, the experience of being homeless on purpose has   actually been a comfort to her as faces more financial   uncertainty and reboots her career. ’ ’   ”I would definitely do the homeless thing again,” she tells us.   ”I think it’’s worth it to be slightly uncomfortable and do   without for a few months in order to pay off debt and save money.   Being cash positive and secure is my   priority. It   gives me a safety net when I get laid off, the ability to travel   and plan for my future.” ’ ’   At the same time, the situation has turned her off of living in   San Francisco. ”For me, personally, it’’s not worth it right now   to live in San Francisco. I would much rather live in a place   where I can afford at least a room in a house.” ’ ”   Yet she’s hopeful that the city will come up with some better,   affordable housing options. ” ’   ”I think it’’s a beautiful and vibrant place to live. But it’’s   becoming so unaffordable that it’’s chasing the very people away   that make it a vibrant place  —   the artists, the musicians, the   dancers, the teachers, the writers,” she tells us. ”I hope   somehow San Francisco reverses course and once again becomes a   city where people from all walks of life can be and thrive.” ’ ’   Read her full story: ”.” ’