’  ’ ’   Donald Trump said Tuesday evening that he had accepted an   invitation to meet with Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto on   Wednesday  —   the same day Trump is set to make a speech on   immigration. ’ ’ news of the possible   meeting. ’ ’   The Republican presidential nominee began considering the     meeting after Peña Nieto extended invitations to both   him and Hillary Clinton, the Democratic presidential nominee,   over the weekend, The Post said. ’ ’   ”I have accepted the invitation of President Enrique Peña Nieto,   of Mexico, and look very much forward to meeting him tomorrow,”   Trump said on Twitter. ’ ’   Trump has ruffled feathers in Mexican politics since the day he   began his presidential campaign in 2015. In his announcement   speech, he claimed the Mexican government sent criminals and   ”rapists” over the border and vowed to solve the issue of illegal   immigration in the US. ’ ’   In March, Peña Nieto likened Trump’’s campaign to the rise of   dictators like Hitler and Mussolini. Months later, he backed off   of those comments during a news conference with US President   Barack Obama and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, saying   ”It was only a call for reflection and for recognition,” . ’ ’  ’ ”   The   mogul’s stance on immigration of late  after he suggested last week that his   policy on the matter could be softened  —   a departure from his   hardline position to deport all immigrants who are in the country   without permission and to build a wall along the southern US   border. ” ”   Trump’s shifting position on immigration has left his most ardent   supporters, who catapulted him to the GOP nomination, worried he   could dramatically alter his original stance on the matter. ” ’   Trump is expected to clarify his position at a scheduled campaign   rally in Phoenix on Wednesday night. ’ ’   A potential meeting between the bombastic billionaire and   Mexico’’s president could be a sign Trump is in ”panic mode,”   Univision news anchor Jorge Ramos . ’ ’   Ramos suggested that it may be too late for Trump to mend his   relationship with Latino voters, after a contentious primary   campaign. ’ ’   ”It doesn’’t matter what he says tomorrow. He already lost the   Latino vote,” Ramos said. ’ ’ Brett LoGiurato contributed to this report. ’