’  ’ ’   Before society collapses, it slows down. ’ ”   That’s the conclusion of a study  in the journal PNAS. A team of researchers examined   the archaeological record that Neolithic European  —   that is,   between 3, 000 and 10, 000 years  —   societies left in the years   before several different collapses. ” ’   They found that ”critical slowing down” is a reliable early   warning signal of a society on the edge of going bust. A society   that can’’t bounce back from a bad winter, a war, or a crop   failure, for instance, faces such a slow down. ’ ’   Sean Downey, a University of Maryland anthropologist and a   researcher on the study, said that to understand what it means   for a society to slow down, you should imagine a rainforest. ’ ’   A healthy rainforest can weather a hurricane pretty easily. Flood   waters might kill some animals and high winds might knock over   huge swaths of trees. But in short order the forest will repair   itself, filling in the gaps left by the storm. ’ ’   But as the forest slows down, it becomes less robust. The   clearings left after one storm might still be partially empty   when the next one hits, leaving even greater devastation. Too   many major storms in a row would threaten the entire ecosystem. ’ ”   A slowdown becomes a useful measure of a system’s overall   resilience. ” ’   On a societal level, anthropologists use ”resilience” to describe   a society’’s ability to weather major shocks. ’ ’     England, Downey said, is a good example of a   resilient society. It was bombed heavily during two world wars   and saw its massive colonial empire collapse. ’ ’   But ”at the end of all that you still have something called   England. It wasn’’t conquered. It wasn’’t taken over. It changed,   for sure. But it managed the change and maintained that identity   even throughout really radical external shocks,” he said. ’ ’  ’ ’   A less resilient society, just like the slowed rainforest, might   have failed to heal fast enough between shocks to survive intact. ’ ’   To demonstrate ”critical slowing down” as an early warning signal   of societal collapse, Downey and his fellow researchers examined   five decades’’ worth of data on Neolithic European settlements   published in archaeological journals. ’ ’   They found that before major collapses, societies reliably slowed   their responses to smaller shocks. ’ ’  ’ ’   Interestingly, a society could slow down its rate of     even in the middle of a boom. ’ ’   ”That’’s the relevance of the Neolithic Revolution to the   Industrial Revolution,” Downey said. ”It gives us a much longer   sweep of human history to examine.” ’ ’   In the short term, Downey said that researchers should look for   critical slowing down before more recent major collapses, like   the Mayan and Roman civilizations. ’ ’   But long term, if we looked at contemporary population databases,   he thinks that it could help us understand our own society. ’ ’   ”It hasn’’t really been that long since the Industrial Revolution.   It’’s been a few hundred years. And archaeology gives access to   what happens over a few thousand years,” Downey said. ’ ”   As we face future known threats like war and climate change,   and unknown threats like an asteroid impact or new disease,   Downey said that that’s the kind of knowledge we should want to   have. ”