’  ’ ”   Our climate is changing. There’s . ” ”   In fact, in 2016  —      after scientists first warned of the sharp changes necessary to   stop global warming  —   it’s more accurate to say that our climate   has changed. ” ’   ”There’’s no stopping global warming,” Gavin Schmidt, a climate   scientist who is the director of NASA’’s Goddard Institute   for Space Studies, . ”Everything that’’s happened   so far is baked into the system.” ’ ’   At this point, the real question is: What are we going to do   about it? ’ ”   Hillary Clinton, the person who  has adopted   a plan to reduce US emissions  —   the   gases we pump   into the air when we generate power  —   80% by 2050 into her   campaign platform. The Obama administration made it the country’s   stated aspiration at the . ” ’   So that raises a second question: Is this something we could   actually pull off in the next 34 years? ’ ’   In public policy, a good way to answer that question is to ask if   we could afford it. Geoffrey Heal, a Columbia University   environmental economist, recently published a  examining what it   would actually cost to meet that target. ’ ”   Here’s what he found. ” ’  ’ ”   The big headline number from Heal’s paper is $42 billion to $176   billion per year every year between now and 2050. ” ’   That’’s not an exact figure plucked from a crystal ball, Heal told   Business Insider, but more of a ”rough estimate,” or a figure   that’’s in the right order of magnitude but ”not claiming to be   correct to three significant figures or anything like that.” ’ ”   Still, it’s a useful measure for thinking about Clinton’s target,   said Heal. And to get there, he relied on a few assumptions: ” ’   In the   scenario, Heal found that the US could probably   wring an 80% drop in emissions out of about $1. 28 trillion over   the course of 34 years. In the worst case scenario, about $5. 28   trillion. ’ ’   Those numbers include the costs of the photovoltaic panels,    and wind farms necessary to generate   enough clean energy to cover   of total US demand. But   they also factor in the giant batteries and     interstate power lines that Heal said would also be necessary to   help the country cope with a shift to power sources that generate   energy only some of the time. ’ ’  ’ ”   When Heal set out to arrive at his figure, he wasn’t sure what   he’d find. ” ’   ”I was genuinely curious whether this would be a financial   ruinous proposition or whether it would be something we could   live with,” Heal said. ’ ’   All told, $1. 28 trillion, or $42 billion per year, would make an   80% emissions reduction about   —   though   spread over more than twice as much time  —   but just . By another   measure:  or . ’ ’   That places the goal squarely in the territory of things the US   could achieve, given enough political will. Still, it would   definitely be limited to the       category,   said Heal. ’ ”   But let’s say that things go another way, and the final cost   looks more like the $5. 28 trillion  —   $176 billion per year  —   that   Heal projects at the high end. Now we’re talking about a project   25% more expensive than   —   though, again, spread out over a   much longer period  —   or 2   Iraq Wars. ” ’   A better way to think about this, though, is in annual terms.   Right now, yearly GDP in the US is about . Everything we know about finance and history   tells us that that number will grow significantly in the next 34   years. But right now, a $42 billion annual program would be about   0. 2% of GDP. And a $176 billion annual program would cost about   1% of GDP. ’ ’   That places the annual cost of an 80% emissions reduction   somewhere between  and . ’ ’   So is that a lot of money? ’ ’   ”I guess the conclusion that I’’ve come to is that it’’s expensive   but not ruinous,” Heal said. ’ ”   It’s important to understand here that when Heal talks about the   cost of the 80% reduction, he’s not talking about tax dollars. ” ’   ”This is not something the government can do,” Heal said. ”This   is private sector investment in infrastructure, basically.” ’ ’   Historically, the role of government has been to wield carrots   and sticks. Most of these lie in the tax code, and have been   shown to be fairly effective in guiding investors to projects the   government is excited about. ’ ’   Credits for producing renewable energy or buying electric cars   would fall into the carrot category, explained Heal. Sticks would   look like a carbon tax or massive hike to the gasoline tax. ’ ’  ’ ”   In Heal’s calculations, the most significant variable was energy   storage. ” ”   That’s because solar and wind, the likely sources of clean energy   in a   America, rely on intermittent power sources.   That’s a fancy way of saying that sometimes it’s nighttime or not   very windy out. ” ”   Right now, the grid mostly solves this problem by importing   traditional power to fill in the gaps left by solar and wind   production. But if you’re trying to go really clean, said Heal,   then that’s not an option. ” ’   So a national   energy grid would need to do two   things well: ’ ’   The first problem is fairly simple to solve, Heal said. Right   now, the US grid is actually lots of little grids. But linking   them up is mostly a matter of laying some   power   lines. Not cheap, but a fairly straightforward upgrade to make to   our existing infrastructure. ’ ”   The second problem, though, is more complicated. We don’t yet   know how much power a national   grid could put out in   a day, or how reliably   sharing can make up for   local shortfalls. That means we have very little idea how much   power we have to sock away on good days to prepare for slow ones   in a clean grid, said Heal. ” ’   ”It’’s something we just haven’’t thought about because it hasn’’t   been that relevant until now,” Heal said. ’ ”   For purposes of his calculations, Heal assumed that we’ll need   the capacity to store about two days’ of renewable power. ” ’   ”This figure has no rigorous scientific basis,” he wrote in the   paper, ”but seems to pass a ’’laugh test. ’’” ’ ’   Storage raises a second, technological question. ’ ’   Right now our best       option is   pretty crude: We can pump vast amounts of water up a hill on a   good day, and then let it run downhill on a bad day to turn a   hydroelectric turbine. ’ ”   But Heal writes that most of the good sites for this method are   already in use, and can store only a fraction of the total energy   we’ll need. Home batteries from companies like  can handle a bit more of the   load, but it looks like we’re going to need massive,     batteries to get a clean power system working around the clock. ” ”   The thing is, these don’t exist yet. No one yet knows how much   they’ll cost, which battery technologies they’ll use, or who will   build them. ” ”   We do know that they’re likely to become a major industry,   though. Depending on the amount of storage we end up needing and   the technologies involved, Heal estimates that we’ll spend   between $2. 2 trillion and $5. 1 trillion on these monsters over   the next 34 years. ” ”   On the plus side, we’ll save about $960 billion on fuel, which is   why the final price tag of a clean grid is so much lower. ” ’  ’ ”   One interesting finding from Heal’s calculations is that the   cheapest route to an 80%   electric grid might   involve nuclear power. ” ”   Though nuclear power plants have a scary reputation, they emit   only water vapor. And they work round the clock, regardless of   weather. With enough new facilities, Heal found that we’d need to   replace only about half of US power generation with wind and   solar rather than   and the cost of storage would drop   significantly. ” ’   ”That was a calculation I found surprising,” Heal said, ”because   nuclear is something that’’s regarded as very expensive and it’’s   effectively priced itself out of the market these days.” ’ ’   Though nuclear power plants provide about 20% of US electricity,   the last one to come online in the US was  in 1996. Early preparations for Watts Bar   2 . At the same time,  could shut down in the next   decade. ’ ”   The Obama administration has broadly signaled its support for   nuclear. But the politics of fission power are dicey at best, and   it’s easy to imagine a major nuclear power push struggling to get   off the ground. ” ’  ’ ’   Economists are good at making judgments about cost and   efficiency, but struggle to account for squishy human foibles   like politics and   thinking. ’ ”   Heal’s paper assumes that society will work in a concerted,   directed way to address climate change. That, for example, people   will continue to move toward electric cars even if gas prices   remain under $3 a gallon. ” ”   This isn’t always how things work. ” ’   Myron Ebell, an energy and environmental policy analyst  —   and   avowed   skeptic  —   with the libertarian Competitive   Enterprise Institute think tank, said that a program on the scale   Heal envisions would struggle to get off the ground. ’ ’   ”I think Obama has gone about as far as you can go in terms of   twisting the current regulatory structure to try to do things,”   Ebell said. ”At some point Congress would have to vote for   this kind of program, and I think it’’s a long way in the future   if at all. I have my doubts that it will ever happen, but right   now you can say it’’s several Congresses away.” ’ ’   Ebell said that political ”friction”  —   from opponents ranging   from national lawmakers to local landowners objecting to power   lines and windmills  —   will likely add costs at every stage of a   major   overhaul. ’ ’   Heal agrees that politics and planning could be a major hurdle. ’ ’   ”I don’’t think anyone has thought through in any detail what it   would take to mobilize the amount of money that we’’re talking   about here,” he said. ’ ’   ”It’’s a question of providing a structure through which   [investors] feel comfortable making these commitments, because   they’’re huge commitments . .. We’’d need a carefully     policy, establishing some clear expectation of continuity in the   field over quite a long period of time.” ’