”The  team writes about stuff we think you’ll like. Business Insider has affiliate partnerships, so we may get a share of the revenue from your purchase.” ”When it comes to headphones, there’s no group as passionate as the forum members over at  If you have a pair of headphones, chances are there’s a   thread discussing its every nuance on their board. ” ’It can be a little intimidating to sift through their threads (believe me) but the knowledge is invaluable. Before any major   purchase, I always check what the people there have to say. ’ ”In addition to   dedicated to different headphone styles and brands,  The guide is compiled by people who read through a bunch of different   user’s reviews and headphones that have become a bit of a hit in that community.” ’These are 15 pairs of headphones that cost $100 or less that have been given the OK by  .’ ”I’ve read through the reviews and given you the   reviewers’ thoughts in a nutshell, but it’s also worth going to   and reading a full review if you want to learn more about each pair.” ’This pair of earbuds has an extra boomy bass at the expense of midrange and treble sounds. But it still holds its own in terms of clarity, and for a budget pair of headphones, it is well worth the price of admission.’ ’’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’’ ’’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’This pair of earbuds is capable of producing surprisingly accurate sound given its price. Bass, midrange, and highs were all constrained (in a good way) as to not compete with one another. You should be happy with these earbuds regardless of what genre of music you like. As a bonus,   considered this pair to be better than some headphones twice its price, which at the time was $100, making their current    ratio even better. ’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ”Like the headphones I just mentioned, the Grado SR80e’s are not meant for listeners looking for a lot of bass. According to   bass is still there, but it takes a backseat to midrange and treble. Vocals, guitars, and horns were all called out as sounding great through these headphones, and as a former Grado headphone owner myself, I totally agree. ” ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’The Insider Picks team writes about stuff we. ..’