’  ’ ”   Donald Trump’s   proposal has been roundly excoriated,   and despite confusion over the proposal that arose during   his meeting with Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto earlier   this week,  saying that Mexico would pay for it. ” ’   ”We will build a great wall along the southern border,” Trump    on Wednesday night. ”And Mexico will pay for the wall.   . .. They don’’t know it yet, but they’’re going to pay for the   wall.” ’ ”   Leaving aside the fact that there are already  along much of the   frontier,   Trump’s proposal to cordon off the entire border with a wall    is still fraught with   problems, not the least of which is that such a barrier would   likely not only fail to stop much of the criminality he has   railed against, but it may also embolden it. ” ’   ”Donald Trump talks tough about the cartels, but his policies are     to increase their profits,” Tom Wainwright, author of   ””   and previously The Economist’’s reporter in Mexico City, . ’ ’   ”He talks a crackdown at the border, but crossing the border is   what they do best. It’’s where their advantage lies  —   that’’s where   they make their money. That’’s why drugs cost so much more in the   States than they do in Mexico,” he said. ’ ’  ’ ’   Americans  according to   a White House study, and many of those drugs get a substantial   markup because of the difficulty involved in getting them to the   consumer. ’ ’   A border wall may raise the prices of drugs, but it ”won’’t do   much to reduce consumption, because people who are addicted to   drugs on the whole aren’’t very responsive to prices,” Wainwright   said. ”So all it will succeed in doing is inflating the value of   the criminal economy.” ’ ’   In the case of cocaine, the price goes from a few hundred   dollars, for the coca leaves needed to make it in Colombia, to   ” ’ ’   ”I think if the cartels could vote, they would vote for Donald   Trump. His policies suit them down to the ground,” Wainwright   added. ’ ’   ”Trump’’s wall would not have any impact on the movement of drugs   through the   border,” Mike Vigil, a retired US Drug   Enforcement Administration agent who spent time undercover in   Mexico and Colombia,  Business Insider in March. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”The Mexican drug traffickers would punch a hole through it, fly   over it,” Vigil . ”They would be able to circumvent that with medieval   technology, catapults, shooting stuff across the wall.” ’ ’   Suggesting that drug traffickers could fly or fling drugs over a   border wall is not speculation. They have done just that. ’ ’   In the past, cartels have made use of  to move shipments of drugs   over the border clandestinely. ’ ’   More recently, traffickers have employed  to ferry drugs into the US. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Mexican cartels have also proved adept at transporting illegal   drugs by sea in ships and on . The  of  in  is a sign of how lucrative this method is. ’ ’   ”Donald Trump is mentioning this wall like it’’s going to have an   impact because he’’s playing to what people want to believe that   he’’s going to do in terms of immigration,” said Vigil. ”But that   wall would serve absolutely no purpose.” ’ ’   The necessity and benefits of a wall along the   border   have also been called into question by people who live there. ’ ’   Ranchers and other residents near the border in southwest New   Mexico have seen an uptick in incidents related to illegal border   crossings, including   and, late last year, a brief   kidnapping,  report from March. ’ ’   But, despite these criminal incursions, residents seem wary of   Donald Trump’’s  ”to close up that border and . .. build a wall.” ’ ’  ’ ’   ”The border is not secure . .. It doesn’’t matter how tall of a   wall you put up, they are going to tunnel under it, they are   going to torch through it. If they want to come across, they   will,” Erica Valdez, who ranches more than 40, 000 acres in New   Mexico’’s boot heel,  in what seems to be   a reference to Trump’’s proposed border wall. ’ ’   That sentiment has been echoed by international officials. Jose   Manuel Salazar, t ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Rather than a static wall, residents in New Mexico’s boot heel   area looked favorably on a larger US Border Patrol presence,   which  it is in the process of deploying. ” ’   Trump has    tripling the number of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement   officers and hiring . ’ ”   A more recent survey of residents on both sides of the border   found widespread rejection of Trump’s proposal. ” ’   A Cronkite     Morning News  that 72% of respondents on the US side and 86% of   respondents on the Mexican side were opposed to building the   wall. ’ ’   That same survey found that 77% of Mexicans surveyed and 70% of   Americans who were asked said that a wall was  in  ’ ’  ’