’  ’ ’   Jared Fogle is suing the parents of one of his     victims. ’ ”   In court documents filed on Thursday, the former Subway pitchman   deflected blame for the girl’s emotional distress and personal   injuries in the aftermath of his crimes, and argued that the   girl’s parents  —   and not him  —   are the source of her distress. ” ’   The victim, known in court papers as Jane Doe, sued Fogle earlier   this year for $150, 000 in damages related to his crimes. ’ ”   She was one of several minors who were secretly     undressing and bathing in the home of Russell Taylor, Fogle’s   business partner at the time. ” ”   Fogle  the tapes that   were recorded in Taylor’s home. He was later convicted and    and receiving and distributing child pornography.   He’s serving out his sentence at a federal penitentiary in   Colorado. ” ’’ ’   As part of his plea deal, . ’ ’   In his latest court filing, however, Fogle claims that Jane   Doe was suffering from depression and that she abused   alcohol and drugs, as well as engaged in sex with ”multiple   partners” long before she knew about Fogle’’s crimes. ’ ’   In the filing, he claims that her parents, named in the   documents as ”J. T. and B. T.,” failed to properly supervise her. ’ ’   He also accused them of inflicting emotional distress because of   a messy divorce and ”abusive relationship.” ’ ’   ”The outrageous and reckless conduct of J. T. and B. T. committed   over a period of several years inflicted personal injuries,   emotional distress and psychological injury on Jane Doe from   which she will continue to suffer,” the document states. ”B. T.   and J. T. by their actions, caused Jane Doe to suffer from   emotional distress and depression which then resulted in Jane Doe   engaging in destructive behaviors, including, but not limited to   alcohol abuse, substance abuse,   and suicidal   ideation with regard to which B. T. and J. T. are liable.” ’ ’   In the filing, Fogle requests that Jane Doe’’s parents   be held liable for her emotional distress and ”all other relief   the court deems proper.” ’