’’ ”Apple haters have always made the case that the company’s massive success is as much the product of marketing and salesmanship as it is any kind of technical innovation.” ”Maybe they’re right. Whatever else Apple cofounder Steve Jobs was, he was. Maybe the original iPhone could have sold itself back in 2007, but  definitely helped.” ”But the world has changed. As smartphone innovation seems to have plateaued, the tech giants of the world, notably  and  have doubled down on machine learning and artificial intelligence  —   the trendy technology that’s making for .” ”It’s a big, necessary step for the industry. Thanks to smartphones, tablets, smart TVs, home voice assistants like the Amazon Echo, and all our other kinds of gadgetry, we’re generating more data than ever before. The promise of artificial intelligence is a way to sift through the noise and always .” ”This means that Tim Cook’s Apple is facing a unique and unprecedented marketing challenge as it heads into Wednesday’s  where the company is expected to announce a new phone that’s . ” ’’ ”With the hardware unexciting at best, that means that the onus will be on Apple to prove that the iPhone is differentiated from Google’s   Android elsewhere. Namely, it must prove the upcoming  has game with the new machine learning trend and it will bring intelligence to the whole iPhone.” ’’ ’For Apple, the peril is twofold.’ ”First, Wall Street is afraid that we’ve reached  and it’s all downhill from here. Second, customers and analysts alike are concerned that after years of   iPhone releases and the failure of new products like the  and  to light the market ablaze, Apple’s ability to innovate has peaked, too.” ”That’s why Apple’s PR machine spent much of August in overdrive, with top company execs including Tim Cook, Eddy Cue, and Phil Schiller giving interviews to  The  and .” ”In each interview, the content may have varied, but the message was always the same: If you think Apple’s glory days are behind it, think again.” ’The coded message is: Apple is not behind in new technologies like machine learning.’ ’’ ’Instead, Apple execs explained to that there is indeed an ”Apple brain” on every iPhone and iPad that learns from user behavior. Apple sees it as part of that overall, signature    experience, rather than a total revolution.’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’But that just underscores the struggle of selling the stuff that machine learning makes possible.’ ”Many of the coolest things it enables, from a technical standpoint   —   better app recommendations, facial recognition in photos, speech recognition, fraud prevention and security  —   are nifty and useful, but also the kind of things you tend to only ever notice when it doesn’t work.” ’’ ”Which is why you’ve heard so much from Apple about the Siri voice assistant and the new smarts that she’s getting in iOS 10. It’s something Apple can’t hammer on hard enough: This is the proof that we’re not behind in machine learning. This is the thing you can use every day to make your life better.” ’It remains to be seen if the   Siri will be enough to reverse user behavior, given that surveys have found that . ’ ”Ultimately, though, it doesn’t matter if she wins the world over or not. Siri, with her new smarts, becomes what’s essentially a mascot for the   Apple Brain, more so than she already is.” ”She’s the most tangible example of what machine learning can do, even if she’s not necessarily the best or most useful.” ’’ ’The exact same factors are going into  and the forthcoming  too.’ ”So don’t be surprised if Apple starts talking up Siri as better than all other smart assistants. And don’t be surprised if Microsoft, Google, and Amazon all fire back. Because really, what they’re trying to prove is who’s the most intelligent, artificial or otherwise.”