’  ’ ”   Donald Trump lashed out at Sen. Jeff Flake on Sunday after the   Republican from Arizona said he wasn’t ready to vote for Trump. ” ’   ”The Republican Party needs strong and committed leaders, not   weak people such as @JeffFlake, if it is going to stop illegal   immigration,” Trump  Sunday night. ’ ’   He then    an hour later: ”The Great State of Arizona, where I just had a   massive rally (amazing people) has a very weak and ineffective   Senator, Jeff Flake. Sad!” ’ ’   In an interview with Jake Tapper on CNN’’s ”State of the Union,”   Flake, a vocal Trump detractor, said he ”simply can’’t” support   Trump. ’ ’   ”I would not vote for Hillary Clinton, and as of now, I would   still not vote for Donald Trump,” Flake said. ’ ’   ”I just know that I would like to vote for Donald Trump. It’’s not   comfortable to not support your nominee,” he added. ”But given   the positions he’’s taken, and the tone and tenor of his campaign,   I simply can’’t.” ’ ”   Flake also suggested that Trump is in danger of losing Arizona to   Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton, a belief he’s held publicly   . Arizona has voted Republican in every election   except one since 1952. Bill Clinton in 1996 was the only Democrat   to carry the state in that span. ” ’  ’ ’   ”Arizona should still be a red state. But Donald Trump, with the   rhetoric that he’’s under and the characterizations of, you know,   many of the state’’s population, have put the state in play,”   Flake said. ’ ’   Arizona is more than 30 percent Hispanic, according to the   . ’ ’   Independent presidential candidate, Evan McMullin, came to Sen.   Flake’’s defense  saying the GOP nominee is ”[demonstrating]   his fragility” by attacking people who oppose him. ’ ’   Clinton  adding, ”There’’s going to be no one left in   Washington for Trump to work with who he hasn’’t insulted.” ’ ’   The   mogul has been criticized from both sides of   the aisle after  which   includes building a wall along the   border. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tThe Republican Party needs strong and committed leaders, not weak people such as  if it is going to stop illegal immigration. ’t’t’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tThe Great State of Arizona, where I just had a massive rally (amazing people) has a very weak and ineffective Senator, Jeff Flake. Sad! ’t’t’ ’ ’ ’Jeff Flake stands his ground: ”I simply can’’t” support Donald Trump. ’