’  ’ ”   It seems weird to think that, at some point in recent human   history, you had to call your partner’s work phone to   talk to them during the day  —   and only if something was   really important. ” ”   Today, you can shoot off a quick kissy face to let them know   that, hey, you’re thinking of them, and how great they are, and   that’s it. ” ’   But alas, love is complicated. I recently wrote an article on    and discovered that  —   you   guessed it  —   frequent texting could be a big one. ’ ’ Men who send or receive a lot of texts tend to be less   satisfied in their relationships. ’ ’   That’’s according to a  of men and women between the ages of 18 and 25   (””) in committed relationships. ’ ’’ ’   For the study, researchers had participants, who were recruited   in couples, answer questions about how often they talked via text   and social networks, and what kind of messages they sent. Most   people said they had multiple text exchanges with their partner   every day. ’ ”   Participants also filled out questionnaires about how satisfied   they were in their relationship, how many times they’d considered   breaking up, and how much their partner paid attention to and   listened to them. ” ’   As it turns out, women who texted their partner a lot said their   relationship was more stable. But men who frequently sent or   received texts from their partner were less satisfied   with the relationship  —   and so were their partners. ’ ’   The lead study author, marriage and family therapist Lori Schade,   : ”Maybe it was a way for them [men] to check out or   not have to show up, by using their cellphone instead.” ’ ”   What’s more, women were more likely to try to hash out tough   topics via text  —   but those who used this strategy were generally   less satisfied with the relationship. ” ’   Perhaps unsurprisingly, sending negative messages was also linked   with a   relationship, while sending affectionate   messages was linked to relationship satisfaction. ’ ”   The takeaway here isn’t that you should delete your partner from   your phone. The researchers can’t draw a direct      link between frequent texting and relationship problems  —   the   data only suggests that the two are related. ” ”   But if you’re or angry or if you need to talk about a serious   issue, it’s probably best to save it for an IRL conversation. ” ’   And if you notice that you and your partner have sent about 100   texts back and forth today alone, but haven’’t had a      in a while, it might be time to carve out some   ”us” time to reconnect  —   maybe by . ’