’  ’ ’   Silicon Valley is a place that prides itself on innovation. ’ ’   Yet, somehow in the Valley’’s pursuit of shiny new   tech, it has decided that being ”innovative” is the same   thing as being ”totally original.” ’ ”   Copying another startup’s idea is seen as an inferior, unoriginal     quick play. Acknowledging that you used a competitor’s   idea is unheard of. ” ’   Take for example the reaction when Instagram’’s CEO Kevin   Systrom deigned to admit that he’’d taken an idea from Snapchat   and put a different spin on it.  around the moment, declaring him the   ”one honest person in tech.” ’ ”   Yet, last week, I spent two afternoons listening to 92 startup   pitches from the graduating class of Y Combinator, Silicon   Valley’s premier startup school that churns out a class of   companies twice a year.  ” ’   Each startup only has a few minutes to run through the highlights   of why their idea is a   idea and laced throughout   these presentations is a common phrasing, ”we’’re the X for Y.” ’ ’   For instance: ’ ’   At first, it’’s easy to dismiss these as a herd of copycats,   doomed to fail because they are not the Uber or   the OpenTable or the Stripe. I know   it’’s easy to dismiss. I’’m often one to roll my eyes whenever I   hear any startup describe itself as the  ”Uber for X.” I’’m   not alone. I’’ve heard countless investors complain about the   lack of original thoughts or new ideas among entrepreneurs. ’ ’   However, listening to the 92 pitches I realized that just   because Valley insiders conflate ”innovation” with a   ”totally original” such thinking only benefits Silicon   Valley  —   and that’’s starting to change. ’ ’   Of the startups that presented at Demo Day, 30% of companies, or   around 31, had been formed outside the US in 16 different   countries, a new record for a Y Combinator batch.   ’ ’  ’ ’   Take  a     startup based in India.  ’ ’   During its presentation, it went through the business   opportunities in India for   and then finally got to   the kicker of what sets it apart: Design. It would’’ve been easy   enough to swap the name ”WeWork” in for Innov8 throughout the   presentation  —   and one investor I spoke to chided the company for   not innovating on the idea more.  ’ ”   While it’s simple to dismiss the idea as belonging to another   company, it’s harder to appreciate why it might work in a   different country or different sector as a new   successful business.  ” ’   Innov8, for example, already has its coworking spaces up and   running  —   and now Y Combinator is partnering with them on   conferences to attract more Indian entrepreneurs.  ’ ”   Squire, the OpenTable for barbershops, may sound like another   reservation system on the surface, but it’s actually replacing   barbershops’ dependency on Square and other payment processors,   making it a   shop. A company like Square doesn’t have the   resources to focus on building tailored software for niche   verticals, whereas a company like Squire can own the whole market   by filling pain points in just the one industry.  ” ’   Comparing your idea to a   one doesn’’t cheapen   the idea, but can enrich it. As  Disney creators didn’’t   understand the plot of the ”Lion King” until its writers called   it the Hamlet for lions. They certainly didn’’t start out to make   a Shakespearean adaption with zoo animals. ’ ’   Listening to the 92 pitches, I realized how easy it was to     the copycats without taking the time to realize the   unique idea behind each one. ’ ’  ’ ”   Quero is taking the Expedia model and applying it to Brazilian   universities, making it easier for students to find a college   they can afford and receive a higher level of education. There’s   nothing cheap behind it. ” ”   Going back to Instagram’s CEO who admitted the company copied an   idea from Snapchat, Systrom  that   you can’t just recreate another product, but you can apply what’s   awesome about it to your own business and move the idea forward   from there. ” ’   An ”Uber for X” startup may be a bad copycat attempt, but it   could also be a   business if the entrepreneur   picks the right ”X” and can build a company out of it. ’ ’   ”The question is what do you do with that   format?  ’