’  ’ ”   Hillary Clinton on Tuesday addressed Donald Trump’s recent fine   from the Internal Revenue Service related to an illegal political   contribution he made in 2013. ” ’   The Democratic presidential nominee said ”the list is growing” of   instances where Trump did something that raises ”serious   questions” after news of the fine broke late last week. ’ ’   Clinton was answering questions from reporters aboard her new   campaign plane when she spoke about the donation Trump made   through his foundation to Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi, who   was considering whether to pursue fraud allegations against the   defunct Trump University. ’ ’   Bondi did not pursue the investigation. ’ ’   ”He bankrupted his companies six times,” Clinton said. ”He’’s been   sued about 4, 000 times. He’’s been accused repeatedly of   fraudulent behavior. His   Trump University is under   investigation right now because of the way it’’s scammed so many   students who thought they’’d get a better opportunity in life.” ’ ’   ”And we recently learned that his Trump Foundation has been fined   for illegal activity when it made a political contribution to the   attorney general of Florida at the time she was being asked by   her constituents to investigate Trump University because of the   effects that these people that she’’s responsible for had   experienced,” she continued. ”And of course, as we know, there   was a phone conversation between them  —   they contradict each   other.” ’ ’   She added that ”the American people deserve to know” what was   said in that call because ”clearly” Bondi ”did not proceed with   the investigation.” ’ ’   Trump  over the $25, 000   donation.  found that the foundation did not list   the contribution in its tax filings, and Trump later reimbursed   the foundation for the donation. ’ ’   A Trump Organization senior vice president told The Post that it   was ”an honest mistake” that the contribution wasn’’t properly   listed. ’ ’ ’ ’ says the “list is growing” of activities  has engaged in that raise serious questions ’