’’ ”I’ve been on the Apple bandwagon since 2010’s iPhone 4, and apart from a brief and extremely frustrating dalliance with a Samsung Galaxy Nexus in 2012, I haven’t really ever regretted it.” ”Until Wednesday’s entirely underwhelming  that is.” ’Even though I knew pretty much every detail of the new phone ahead of time, it . Stuff like the  and water resistance are nice, but not really crucial to why I would buy a new phone. Ditto for the battery life.’ ’And no matter what Apple said onstage Wednesday,  isn’’t ”courage.” It’’s annoying and hovers right on the border of being outright anticonsumer. As  it feels like nothing so much as a shameless play to take control of the headphone market  —   a market that Beats, a wholly owned subsidiary of Apple, is .’ ”Frankly, it’s making me look at my inevitable next phone purchase with dread.” ”If I follow my own pattern and go to the iPhone 7, I’m losing the ability to use my favorite headphones, unless I use an . And even if I use the dongle, I still can’t charge the phone and listen to music at the same time. So long, battery life, when I’m on a long flight. And I’m . Sorry.” ’’ ”I could maybe swallow all this if the iPhone 7 had something else, anything else that was compelling and  . I’m not seeing anything past the usual incremental upgrades to performance.” ”So now I’m thinking different. Different from Apple.” ’A big part of why I had loved the iPhone so much over the past few years was its . Features like iMessage and Airdrop are absolutely brilliant, and make the iPhone and Mac an unbeatable team.’ ’’ ”About a year ago, I . Now, Windows 10 and the iPhone don’t really play nearly as nicely, but the iPhone itself was good enough that I didn’t mind.” ”Now, I’m thinking to myself: Windows 10 and Android work very well together, from  to notifying you on a Windows 10 PC when an Android phone’s battery is low. And a lot of Android phones do, and continue to, rock that headphone jack.” ”So, for right now, my iPhone 6s is going to serve me just fine. One day, though, I’ll be looking for my next upgrade. And the iPhone 7, as presented Wednesday, will probably not be that. I sense I’m not alone, either. With  it could be bad news for Apple.”