”Amanda Peterson’s job is a combination of professional brainstorming,   control, and linguistic ballet. ” ”She’s the Head of Naming at Google, which means that the appellation of every product that flies out the company’s doors needs to pass her inspection first. Her exact role on every project depends on the team working on it:” ’Sometimes people will want her to guide them ’ ’”I work with every character in Alphabet who needs help with names,” she tells Business Insider. ”It’’s this niche   that’’s a resource for everybody.” ’ ’Not every name needs to feel like a real name.’ ’If the goal is just to help people find and use a product, the process is straightforward. For example, a cool   or feature for an existing tool, like Gmail, might just be a widget with a purely descriptive label.’ ’But when something needs a name that tells a story, captures a certain personality, or fits into a larger brand, the process can require extensive discussion.  ’ ’Each christening also requires a dance between linguistics and legal. ’ ’”Every brainstorm that I’’ve ever hosted in my entire professional career, if you say, ’’We’’re going to name something around ”fast,” I bet you I know the first 100 names that everybody is going to come up with,” Peterson says. ”And 99 of those are probably already a startup.” ’ ’Creative names can require digging deep. Peterson has more than 350 reference books scattered around her desk, including ones for common names of animals, slang from the 20s, and the rules for ”Dungeon and Dragons. ”’ ’”You don’’t know where you’’re gonna get inspired,” she says.’ ”For example, the  got its name from an old lighthouse that has been rebuilt and reengineered a bunch of times. It stuck because it had meaning on multiple levels (lighthouse = a beacon, this particular lighthouse was   and innovative) and because it had a    feel that the team was going for (what’s less intimidating than a dude named Eddy? ).” ”Aside from her affection for ’Eddystone,’ Peterson is frustratingly   when asked for what she considers to be the best names to come out of her   stint at Google, insisting that she simultaneously loves them all and doesn’t want to take too much credit. ” ’”’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’ ’ ’’ ”Besides knowing the proper nomenclature of every Google product ever, Peterson’s role as a professional namer means she has some special skills, like being a human thesaurus and killing it with weird random pub trivia questions (she’s comparatively terrible at Scrabble because she’s always spotting interesting fake words among her letters). ” ’’ ’matter how great the name is, no matter how much research you have on it, it takes a leap. ”’ ”Here’s the rationale behind  —   or what Peterson loves about  —   some of Google’s names:” ’Google always names its latest edition of its Android operating system after sweet treats, but  since p’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’”Allo is a fun, quick way to communicate so we needed a fun, quick name just in its style,” she says. ”It sounds like ’’hello’’  —   not just in American English, so it’’s got a bit of a global nod. But because Allo is a new thing  —   it’’s got pieces of chat, of a digital assistant, of a platform for doing stuff that doesn’’t already have a term that people know  —   it couldn’’t just be something straightforward like ’’Google Chat. ’’ That doesn’’t capture everything this could be in the future. ”’ ’ ’ ’”My favorite part about the Allo name is that the team thought ahead to name Allo and Duo together from the start,” she says. (Duo is ) ”They’’re different products that solve different problems, they do live harmoniously together. So the names fit what they each do individually well, but they also sound nice together due to the end rhyme on the O. ”’ ”Peterson wasn’t around for the naming of Chrome but it’s one of her favorites. ” ’”From a tech perspective, ’’chrome’’ was the literal description of the look and feel of an application. It was the little edge around the border of your music player, or your browser, or whatever,” she says.’ ’”So the goal of Chrome was, ’’Let’’s make a browser with less ’’chrome’’ on it. And it became this play of, ’’We’’ll call it Chrome, haha. ’’ But what I love about it is if you’’re techy it almost feels descriptive. ”’ ’Plus, generally, the idea of ”chrome” is ”shiny and new and sexy,” she says. ’ ’”What I love about the name Alphabet is how Ruth [Porat, CFO] reacts to the   part and the creative team can react to the fact that Alphabet is a building block of things that you can write anything out of,” she says.’ ’”You know, everybody reads all their meaning into a simple word. That to me is a great name for meeting what Google is aiming for. Something that everybody can approach but you can add your own little meaning into. That’’s what we’’re aiming for in the brands we build.” ’