’  ’ ’   On  that went viral  on Friday, a site where programmers share and   comment on stuff that interests them, a startup CEO announced   that he was selling his current company to join Stripe. ’ ”   His name  and he’s founded a few companies (Bingo   Card Creator, Starfighter, Appointment Reminder). He’s also   a popular  and a frequent commenter on Hacker News. ” ”   He’s a guy that’s made a name for himself living the dream of   working for himself as a programmer, successful enough to live   where he wants, in Tokyo, (though he was born in the   US). Successful enough to have sold a few of his     but not for the kind of sums that would make   headlines.  ” ’   Successful enough to be happy with his life. ’ ’   ”I didn’’t think I was ever going to be an employee again, and   honestly, I have mixed emotions about it. That’s why I turned   down other opportunities in the past,” he writes. ’ ’’ ”   But after talking with Stripe   and CEO Patrick   Collison it started to occur to him that Stripe’s newest   project, Atlas, was something he wanted to help build. ” ’   With Atlas, Stripe hopes to do for the awful process of   incorporating an internet business what it did for the previously   awful process of taking payments over the internet.  ’ ’   ”I’ve incorporated four companies and opened business bank   accounts for all of them. The most recent required over a hundred   pages of documentation and six weeks of negotiation to assuage a   risk department’s concerns about foreign tech   entrepreneurs,” McKenzie writes. ’ ’   But along comes Stripe Atlas, which is still in beta, with the   goal of letting developers incorporate their company as easily as   they fire up a cloud computing server, and they can fire up an   Amazon server in a matter of minutes. ’ ’   ”This idea is crazy,” McKenzie writes. ”You’re not supposed   to be able to do this. Stripe did it. With crazy speed: the   project was in beta within 11 weeks of conception.” ’ ’   In fact, ”Silicon Valley is full of crazy people,” McKenzie   writes, explaining: ’ ”   So he’s hanging up his CEO hat and going to join them and   his rationale didn’t sound crazy at all. In addition to   working on Atlas, he’s going to help Stripe’s   office   expand in Japan.  ” ’  ’