’  ’ ”   Sears and Kmart, once America’s leading retailers,   are bleeding cash and shutting down stores as     shoppers abandon them in droves.  ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Arnold thinks Sears won’t last much longer. ” ’   ”The end is near,” he said. ”The store I grew up with will   be just a memory. So sad.”  ’ ”   Some customers claimed that the quality of Sears’ products   has declined over the years. ” ’   ”When I walked into a Sears store 10 to 15 years ago I knew   automatically that I would pay more for whatever I bought, but I   was confident that it would be top quality,” said Tilmon   Strickland of Ada, Oklahoma. ”But today, I don’’t buy anything   from Sears. The appliances are very cheaply made and won’’t   last.”  ’ ’  ’ ”   Charles Tucker of Exeter, New Hampshire, said he and his father   were lifetime Sears customers. He said he still has some of his   Sears Craftsman tools from the 1960s, but newer tools   don’t last. ” ’   When Sears sent him a new credit card in the mail recently, he   said, ”I just cut it up. Sears put a lot of small retailers out   of business    years ago, now they are committing   suicide.” ’ ’   In response to the customer complaints described in this story,   Sears spokesman Brian Hanover said the company is constantly   getting feedback from customers and that most of it is positive. ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Employee incentives to get customers signed up for the   company’s Shop Your Way rewards program and credit   cards have also been a headache for customers. ” ’   ”They have so many questions that the checkout person needs to   ask each and every customer to try and sway them into some sort   of loyalty program,” shopper Samuel J. Ely said. ”They want my   phone number, address, email, etc. Even the card swiper wants all   kinds of things.” ’ ’   He compared checking out at Sears to a crossing point for the   Berlin Wall. ’ ’   ”The annoyance really starts the moment you get in the long line   and have to wait for the other customers in front of you to go   through Checkpoint Charlie,” he said. ”Heaven help you if   somebody needs a price check.” ’ ’  ’ ’   The loyalty program also makes things confusing when trying to   get a price on something, Ely claimed.  ’ ”   After purchasing a house, Ely said he went to Sears to   buy all new appliances. He ended up leaving without   buying anything, however, because he said it was too   confusing to get a   price on the   appliances with all the possible combinations of discounts   and loyalty rewards that a salesperson was pitching to him. Ely   left the Sears store and went to Lowe’s   instead, and said he spent $8, 000 on his appliances   there.  ” ’   ”Ever since then, I avoid Kmart like the plague and I don’’t shop   at Sears at all,” he said.  ’ ’   Herndon, the   Sears employee, agreed that the Shop   Your Way program is ”a misery for both employees and customers.” ’ ’   ”When a customer came to get checked out they were presented   with: sign up for Shop Your Way rewards, get their email address,   sell a maintenance agreement. .. or a repair agreement on smaller   items, try to get them to open a charge account, ask them to call   in a customer service survey  —   and by the time all of this was   presented, many customers were angry and just wanted to pay for   their purchase and get out.” ’ ’   Customers also complained that the stores are in total   disarray.  ’ ’   ”The Tinley Park, Illinois Kmart is sad and depressing,” said   Gary Hayslett, of Tinley Park, Illinois. ’ ’   During a recent trip, he said he saw two cashiers in the store   and only one other shopper. He said the store has been using   sheets and shower curtains for years to hide empty shelves and   closed departments, and that many of the registers are broken and   covered with cardboard. ’ ’  ’ ’   He also noted the store appears to be renting out part of its   parking lot to a local car dealer for car storage.  ’ ’  ’ ’   Shopper Jeff Magnet of Newton, Massachusetts, said he visited the   Kmart store in Tulsa, Oklahoma a couple weeks ago and found a   similarly depressing scene. ’ ’   ”It was like a haunted house,” he said. ”A real mess.” ’ ’   Another customer, Paul Martin, compared his local Sears  —   where   he said he and his wife worked in the 1990s  —   to a ”ghost   town.”  ’ ’   ”Last time I was in the store where we once proudly worked, it   was a ghost town,” Martin said. ”Very sad to see a     retail giant at its end.” ’