’  ’ ”   CNN’s Wolf Blitzer relentlessly grilled Republican vice   presidential nominee Mike Pence on Trump’s past attacks on   Obama’s birthplace during a lengthy interview on Monday. ” ’   Pence was answering a question about Hillary Clinton’’s Friday   statement that ”half” of the Republican nominee’’s supporters are   a ”basket of deplorables” when CNN’’s Wolf Blitzer tossed him a   curveball. ’ ’   ”She should apologize and retract the entire statement without   qualification,” Pence said, before Blitzer cut him off by   asking ”Should Donald Trump apologize to President Obama for   suggesting he was not born in the United States? ’ ’   ”Everybody knows he was born in the United States,” Blitzer   continued. ”We’’ve all seen the birth certificate. But to this   day, Dr. Ben Carson says he should apologize, Rudy Giuliani says   he was born in the United States, Kellyanne Conway says the same   thing. Should he publicly just say to the president once and for   all ”sorry, I know you were born in Hawaii?” ’ ’   ”You know, we’’re just not talking about that issue,” Pence   responded. ”It’’s a    issue.” ’ ’   ”Why not?” Blitzer shot back. ’ ’   ”It’’s not what the American people are talking about,” Pence   replied. ”I mean I can honestly tell you. This is the greatest   privilege of my life to be running for vice president of the   United States. I’’m traveling all over this country. I was on the   West Coast yesterday, I’’m in Florida later this week, Virginia   this weekend, the American people are coming together, there is a   movement behind Donald Trump.” ’ ’   Blitzer then added that it would be ”a nice gesture” for Trump to   do so, adding that Pence himself has publicly stated he believes   Obama was born in the US. ’ ’   ”Of course, of course,” Pence said in response to Blitzer saying   the Indiana governor believes Obama was born in Hawaii. ”But so   many things I have to tell you, it is just not what people are   talking about.” ’ ’’ ’Should Trump apologize to President Obama for remarks about birthplace? ”This is a    issue,” Pence says ’