’  ’ ’   A team of computer science professors at the University of   Michigan are trying to change the way we manage money.  ’ ’   Clinc, a startup that was one of the companies to win ”Best in   Show” at Finovate last Friday, was born out of   a research lab, by programmers taking an entirely   different approach.  ’ ’   “Clinc is a company we created with the mission of taking the   best science and technology from academia, from our research lab,   and creating real solutions for humans,” said founder and CEO   Jason Mars, who is a professor of computer science and   engineering at the university.   ’ ’   Clinc can be described as a sort of Siri for your bank   account, and the app features a financial genie aptly   named, ”Finie,” which has a sophisticated understanding   of natural language.  ’ ’It’’s different to other chat bots out on the market right   now in that the user doesn’’t have to remember specific ways to   ask questions or speak any key words.” ’ ’   They use a data driven, deep learning algorithm versus the usual   rule based approach.  ’ ’   The programming professors built from scratch five distinct   artificial intelligence engines using completely neural network   technologies. A  ’ ”   Clinc’s mission is to give people the tools to understand   their financial story in a really easy way. For example, you can   ask Finie what your spending looks like this year so far, and she   breaks it down complete with graphs and pie charts broken into   categories. You can ask her to show a breakdown of your travel   spending, and a few seconds later she’ll come back with the   numbers, broken up into hotels, taxi’s, flights and the like. ” ’  ’ ’   I was intrigued, so I went and tried it out at their booth after   the demo. I asked it things like, ”How much did I spend on   sushi this year?”  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Financial institutions can’’t do this on their own,” said Mars.   ”They’’re not tech companies. But that’’s why we’’re here.” ’ ’   Clinc was a hit at Finovate Fall, which ’ ’  ’ ’   While there are a lot of other startups looking at integrating   chatbots and artificial learning technology into banking   apps, this university startup could be onto something new   with this sort of natural language recognition.  ’ ’   ”Academics come at it from a different angle,” said Greg   Palmer, VP of Finovate and the Master of Ceremony at Finovate   Fall 2016 in New York. ”In a data heavy industry, they can spot   the holes that exist.” ’ ’Get updates in your inbox.’ ’Subscribe to Fintech Briefing and never miss an update!’