’  ’ ’   Earlier this week, Apple announced a new type of   wireless headphones at a media event in San Francisco. It   called them ”AirPods.” ’ ’   That name would have sounded familiar if you read Apple trademark   applications. In fact, it was hiding in plain sight since at   least early 2015, when an   holding company   first registered the trademark. ’ ’   However, ”AirPods” was registered under a dummy corporation   called ”Entertainment in Flight.”  ’ ”   In the   to Apple’s big reveal, Rennick Solicitors    definitively linked Entertainment in Flight to Apple  —   and   discovered a few other names Apple wanted to make sure   it could name future products after, like  which were announced shortly after the   event.  ” ’   He also    a number of trademarks Apple didn’’t announce, but might one day,   including ”Today at Apple,” ”Apple Touch Bar,” and ”Apple Smart   Button.”    ’ ’   ”If Apple had just filed all their applications in the US, or   wherever, the intrigue [before the iPhone launch] wouldn’t be   nearly as palpable,” Controy told Business Insider. But Conroy is   quick to warn that just because a company files a trademark   doesn’’t mean it’’s planning a product.  ’ ”   Here’s how Apple hides its trademarks around the world, and how   Conroy sleuthed them out.  ” ’  ’ ”   The point of registering a trademark is so that another company   can’t use your name for a similar product. Those are the kind of   routine applications that Conroy’s firm .  ” ’   But most trademark registrations are public record  —   which   wouldn’’t be good if a company like, say Samsung, figured out   that ”AirPods” must mean Apple is working on wireless headphones   and .  ’ ’   But it would also be bad for Apple if it didn’’t register   ”AirPods,” announced the name, and immediately went into a legal   battle with another company that simultaneously claimed the   name.  ’ ’   ”I’d imagine that a brand like Apple doesn’t want to be calling   its products one thing in one country and another in another,”   Conroy said.  ’ ’   So what Apple does is it registers trademarks overseas in   ” ” countries like Trinidad and Tobago, Brunei,   Indonesia, or Jamaica. The date it applies there becomes the   worldwide ”priority date.” Then, when the product launches,   Apple can legally claim it already had the trademark  —     without filing a public document in the US or EU.  ’ ’   ”I ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’ ’ ’   Conroy goes through nearly every trademark filed in the EU every   morning, and the interesting ones usually stick out to him.  ’ ’   He noticed a few interesting applications  —   they used the   same law firm as Apple, and they had previous priority   registrations in ”far flung places,” so he started pulling the   thread. ”I told my boss, I have a hunch where these might be, and   I want to go look for them, but I could be wrong.”  ’ ’   ”What I did was I got in touch with the patent offices   themselves,” Conroy said. ”They said you can search it in our   office. Your option is either on get a plane or get someone who   is there to go to their offices.” ’ ’   Conroy thought about flying, but he got local trademark agents   and other contacts to visit the offices  .  ’ ”   Ultimately, it worked out. Conroy found several Apple trademark   applications filed in the past six months in the files of obscure   trademark offices. (He’s also found unpublished trademarks from   Samsung, Huawei, Toyota, and J. K. Rowling.) ” ”   When he first found unpublished Apple trademark   applications, Conroy knew that he had found something special. He   didn’t know his hunt was going to be successful.  ” ’   ”It’’s kind of like when someone tells you a secret,” Conroy said.   ”I’’m literally one of the fewest people in the world that know   something like this exists.”  ’ ’   ”You go through a lot of documents and trace a lot of dead ends   before you got there. So there’’s a moment of ’’I was right,’’”   Conroy said.  ’