’  ’ ”   The New York attorney general, Eric Schneiderman, said on Tuesday   he had opened an inquiry into the Donald J. Trump Foundation to   ensure the Republican presidential nominee’s charity was   complying with state laws governing nonprofits. ” ”   Schneiderman, a supporter of Trump’s Democratic rival in the   presidential race, Hillary Clinton, brought a fraud lawsuit   against the   mogul and his   Trump   University in 2013, seeking $40 million in restitution plus   penalties and other costs. ” ”   In a CNN interview on Tuesday, Schneiderman said his office had   also brought Trump’s charitable foundation under scrutiny. ” ’   ”My interest in this issue really is in my capacity as regulator   of nonprofits in New York state,” the elected Democratic official   said. ”And we have been concerned that the Trump Foundation may   have engaged in some impropriety from that point of view.” ’ ’   Schneiderman added: ”We have been looking into the Trump   Foundation to make sure it’’s complying with the laws that govern   charities in New York.” He did not elaborate on any specific   wrongdoing Trump’’s nonprofit might be suspected of committing. ’ ’   Trump campaign spokesman Steven Cheung dismissed Schneiderman’’s   assertions as entirely motivated by presidential politics,   calling the attorney general a ”partisan hack who has turned a   blind eye to the Clinton Foundation for years.” ’ ’   Cheung called Schneiderman’’s comments ”nothing more than another     hit job designed to distract” attention from Clinton’’s   recent missteps on the campaign trail. ’ ’ that Trump gave   Schneiderman $12, 500 for his campaign for attorney general in   2010: ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tDonald Trump gave Eric Schneiderman    whom his spox now calls a ”partisan hack”   $12, 500 in 2010.  ’ ’   Trump has accused Clinton of being corrupted by donors to the   Clinton Foundation global charity founded by her husband, Bill   Clinton, while she was US secretary of state from 2009 to 2013. ’ ”   Clinton has dismissed Trump’s allegation as a political smear.   There has been no evidence that foreign donors to the foundation   obtained favors from the State Department while Clinton headed   the agency. ” ”   Schneiderman made his remarks when asked on CNN about calls from   Democrats in Congress for a federal investigation of a $25, 000   donation in 2013 from the Trump Foundation to a political   committee supporting Florida’s Republican attorney general, Pam   Bondi. ” ”   Democrats have cited an Associated Press report that Bondi   solicited the donation personally, around the time her office was   debating whether to join New York state’s investigation into   Trump’s   training school in Florida. According to the   AP, Bondi, who was seeking reelection at the time, broke off the   lawsuit deliberations after the check arrived. ” ’   Bondi, who has endorsed Trump, has called the AP report   misleading. ’ ’     ’ ’   (Writing and reporting by Steve Gorman in Los Angeles; Additional   reporting by Mohammad Zargham in Washington; Editing by Eric   Beech and Peter Cooney) ’