’  ’ ’ has lost a legal bid to prevent   a    girl from suing the company over a naked picture of   her that was posted on a “shame page” on the site as an act of   revenge. ’ ’   A high court judge in Belfast on Monday rejected Facebook’s   attempt to have the claim by the girl struck out. She is also   taking legal action against the man who allegedly posted the   picture in what lawyers claim is the first case of its kind in   the UK. ’ ’   A lawyer for the teenager, who cannot be named because of her   age, compared the publishing of the photo to a method of child   abuse. ’ ’   The girl is seeking damages for misuse of private information,   negligence and breach of the Data Protection Act. ’ ’   Her photograph was said to have been posted on a   shame   page on Facebook several times between November 2014 and January   2016. ’ ’   The girl’s legal team argued that Facebook had the power to block   any   by using a tracking process to identify the   image. ’ ’   The court heard it should have been a “red line” issue for the   company. ’ ’   A lawyer for Facebook argued the claim for damages should be   dismissed, saying the company always took down the picture when   it was notified. ’ ’   Facebook’s lawyers relied on a European directive that they   claimed provides protection from having to monitor a vast amount   of online material for what is posted on one page. ’ ’   The case against Facebook and the man who it is claimed   originally posted the picture will now move to full trial in   Belfast at a later date.  ’ ’   In 2014, a Texas woman reportedly  for failing to stop posts superimposing her face   on nude images, but the case was dismissed. ’ ’   Facebook is increasingly becoming embroiled in arguments about   what content it does and does not allow on its platform.  ’ ’ after Norway’s   newspaper ran a   front page letter criticizing the social network’s decision to   remove a famous image of a naked young girl running from a napalm   attack during the Vietnam war, posted by writer Tom   Egeland.  ’ ’   Facebook also removed a post by Norway’s prime minister, in which   she criticized the social network and reposted the image, before   relenting and saying it would allow the image.  ’ ’   While the company has introduced processes  —   both automated and   human  —   to control what appears on its website, it has repeatedly   sought to avoid taking full responsibility, arguing that it is a   technology platform, rather than a publisher. ’ ’   The Facebook chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg,  last month that Facebook would remain a   tech firm and not become a media company. ’ ’   Facebook did not immediately respond to a request for comment. ’