’  ’ ’   Donald Trump on Wednesday taped an appearance on ”The Dr. Oz   Show” discussing his personal health and the healthcare policies   he’’d like to implement as president. ’ ’   During the   interview, the Republican nominee told Dr.   Mehmet Oz that he would like to lose 15 to 20 pounds, . Oz was said to have agreed that Trump could   stand to lose some weight. ’ ”   A source who  said that Trump told Oz he hadn’t been to the   hospital since he had his appendix removed at the age of 11.   Trump also said he is screened for cancer on a yearly basis,   according to the NBC News source. ” ’   Members of the media were not allowed to watch the interview, set   to air on Thursday, forcing them to rely on a press release and   members of the studio audience for information. ’ ’   A press release from ”The Dr. Oz Show” said Oz went through a   ”full review” of numerous body systems with Trump, but it was not   immediately clear exactly what that meant. The systems were said   to include head and neck, nervous system, hormone levels,   cardiovascular health, and respiratory health. ’ ’   Laurance Rassin, a Trump supporter who attended the taping, told   CNN that the process was ”very transparent” and that Trump   ”brought his medical records” with him. CNN reported that Trump   provided Oz a   summary of a physical examination he   underwent last week from Dr. Harold Bornstein. ’ ’   ”I think he has a great medical record right now. He has been   healthy  —   he said he’’s been healthy. I believe him,” Rassin said.   ”He’’s got a great report from his doctor, and I think that’’s   great for his candidacy and ultimately great for America.” ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tAudience member: “I think  was impressed” with Donald Trump’s physical exam results   ’ ’   Rassin said that he thought Oz ”was impressed” with Trump’’s   health. ’ ’   Ivanka Trump joined her father during the taping to discuss his   new child care and maternity leave initiatives. ’ ’   Trump’’s appearance on ”The Dr. Oz Show” came as his Democratic   opponent, Hillary Clinton, faced questions about how transparent   she has been about her health. ’ ’   The former secretary of state was  on Sunday as she left a     memorial event early. Her campaign later said she had been    two days earlier and would take some   time off the campaign trail to recover. ’ ’   Clinton is expected to resume campaigning on Thursday. ’