’  ’ ’   George Hotz is known for not holding back. ’ ’  ’ ’   More recently, he had a . He said Musk offered him a     bonus if he could replace the   Mobileye Tesla uses. Musk disputed that claim   and   the ability of a ”single person or even a   small company” to come up with real   technology. ’ ’   True to his controversial fashion, in  Hotz   delivered a manic roast of the   car space by   calling out the ”players” versus the ”jokers.” ’ ’   ”You have Google who is probably never going to ship. You have   Otto who was hungry and then they got millions and millions from   Uber,” he said, referencing the  that Uber bought this summer for   $680 million. ’ ’’ ’   ”And then there’’s Tesla, that despite my public disagreement with   Elon Musk, I have so much respect for that company because they   actually shipped a   car. The most advanced     car you can buy today is the Tesla Model S with   ” he continued.  ’ ”   Then it switched to the (even) more negative, as Hotz declared   there’s not enough   in Silicon Valley: ” ’     ”Now we’’re going to call out the jokers.   ’ ’     ”There’’s this company called Mobileye and their job is to work     with regulators to lower the safety ratings of cars that do not     have a Mobileye chip in them. They recently discontinued their     agreement to work with Tesla  —   Yes, autopilot was not developed     in house, they used this third party chip called Mobileye  —       because Tesla was too innovative and it scared them. After the     accident, Mobileye got scared and they want no part of     innovation.   ’ ’     ”Then you think Silicon Valley might have a solution to this.     This is a company Drive. AI, good machine learning pedigree,     from Stanford. It recently came out that what they are doing is     building emotional intelligence for cars by building signs that     go on top of your car  —   not a   car at all.    ’ ’     ”Then you have Zoox which promises you this and delivers, well,     the Zoox jalopy, which is this. So the jokers.”   ’ ”   But one target was really in Hotz’s crosshairs: Cruise   Automation. ” ”   The startup sold in the spring to General Motors for a rumored $1   billion payout, including earnouts. Since its sale, it’s shifted   the M&A microscope to many of these early startups, and the   gold rush has begun. Yet, Hotz doesn’t see Cruise’s sale as a   good thing for the industry. ” ’   ”They promised to build a   car kit,” Hotz exclaimed   with his arms waving. ”Granted it was going to be $10, 000 and   only work on the Audi A4. They never shipped. They got bought by   GM. And in the music industry, they have a word for people like   them: sellouts. I don’’t care if it’’s a billion dollars. They’’re   sellouts.” ’ ’   The long   of punching at his competition lead to what Hotz   really wanted to do: unveil that he was shipping his product on   cars soon. Like the Cruise product that he slammed, his   version doesn’’t work on every car  —   it only works on certain   Hondas and Acuras. But he’’s already slapped a trademark symbol   next to the word ”shippability’’ and promises that his     car kit will be hitting the market soon. ’ ’   ”If [Tesla] is the iOS, we want to be the Android. And I want to   be there when Ford’’s CEO has to choose to be Nokia or Samsung,”   Hotz said. ’