”The  team writes about stuff we think you’ll like. Business Insider has affiliate partnerships, so we may get a share of the revenue from your purchase.” ’’ ” you haven’t already, it’s time to prepare your closet for the colder weather.” ’A couple of flannel shirts, a down vest, a pair of boots  —   you know the drill.’ ”If you’re looking for some new items to supplement your existing seasonal threads, or you’re looking to replace a few of last year’s favorite pieces, look no further. We have the 13 things that’ll complete your fall wardrobe below.” ”Scoop them up quickly. You’re going to need them all soon enough.” ’The luxury option: . (Left) The affordable one:  (Right)’ ’The luxury option:  (Left) The affordable one:  (Right)’ ’No closet is complete without a couple of pairs of jeans. For the colder months, we tend to stick with heavier fabrics and deeper colors. In this vein, darker denim rinses will feel most appropriate for the season. The luxury option:  (Left) The affordable one: . (Right)’ ’’ ’You can wear stripes any time of year. Stripes go with pretty much everything, from jeans to corduroy pants, with sneakers or loafers. A   option will no doubt be one of your casual, weekend  . The luxury option:  (Left) The affordable one:  (Right)’ ”If you’re looking for a subtle, appropriate way to integrate color into a work suit or another formal outfit, look down. A small glimpse of paisley, houndstooth, or even camouflage at your ankles can be a fun, unexpected touch. The luxury option:  (Left) The affordable one:  (Right)” ”There are tons of different types of boots you can pick up for the fall. If you’re looking for a pair that can work in both casual and more professional settings,   leather boots are excellent options. Chelsea boots and chukka boots could work here, too. The luxury option:  (Left) The affordable one:  (Right)” ’The luxury option:  (Left) The affordable one:  (Right)’ ’The luxury option:  (Left) The affordable one:  (Right)’ ’ The luxury option:  (Left) The affordable one:  (Right)’ ’The luxury option:  (Left) The affordable one:  (Right)’ ”Cashmere sweaters and cold weather go hand in hand. If your   shirt isn’t providing enough warmth, simply layer one of these pullovers over it. The luxury option:  (Left) The affordable one:  (Right)” ’The luxury option:  (Left) The affordable one:  (Right)’ ’The Insider Picks team writes about stuff we. ..’