’  ’ ’   A reading revolution is brewing in American classrooms, and one   company is quietly leading the charge. ’ ’ a    startup   that promotes literacy in   education, gives teachers curated   news articles to share with their students. ’ ”   With the help of intelligent software that adjusts article text   to match a student’s reading level, teachers can use   comprehension quizzes to get immediate feedback when kids are   stumped. ” ”   Given the sheer scale of illiteracy in the US, among both    and  it’s not hyperbole to suggest Newsela could transform   how future generations master the English language. ” ’   And since Newsela is currently in 75% of American   schools,   it kind of already is. ’ ” have poured billions of dollars into schools   that strive to engage students   . They say it’s the   future of American education. ” ’   ”I think there’’s an opportunity to figure out for each particular   student their cognitive and   skills, and then give   them a chance to be really good at that,” Brook Byers, senior   partner at the venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield   & Byers and a Newsela board member, tells Business Insider. ’ ”   Newsela is used in all sorts of ways. Implementation ranges from   one teacher sharing articles about Colin Kaepernick kneeling   during the National Anthem to an entire school district adopting   the program, in which kids receive tablets that run all the   software and articles in Newsela’s library. ” ’  ’ ”   Matthew Gross, Newsela’s founder and CEO, says he started the   company for two reasons. The first is personal: When Gross’ son   was in 2nd grade, he struggled with reading. After meeting with   his son’s teacher, Gross learned the class was reading Dr. Seuss    —   a few notches in difficulty below what he felt was appropriate   for   . ” ’   It occurred to him soon after that classrooms needed more   flexibility. ’ ’   ”How do you hold a meaningful class,” he asks, ”when you assign a   text where it’’s either so advanced that a whole bunch of the   readers can’’t understand it, or it’’s so simplified that you’’re   never going to get kids where they need to go?” ’ ’  ’ ”   That’s why Newsela has hired journalists to take the days’ news   and change the language to the appropriate reading levels,   whether it’s a Washington Post article on Donald Trump or a   speech given by Martin Luther King, Jr. As kids pick up new   literacy skills, the language becomes more sophisticated. ” ”   Gross’s other reason for starting Newsela is that teachers   often lack adequate insight into whether their kids are becoming   better readers. Gross recalls visiting a school in Queens, New   York where he saw a student stare at his reading for what seemed   like hours. He didn’t seem to be absorbing the material. ” ’   Gross developed Newsela to help teachers target exactly those   kinds of kids. Students and teachers can annotate a given reading   to fix specific pain points, like vocabulary and grammar.   Teachers can also drop questions in the margin to check   comprehension in   quizzes. ’ ”   Here’s a student responding to a prompt in  : ” ’ ’ ’   Even in its limited run, Newsela has reportedly led to big jumps   in achievement. When it looked at kids scoring below the 50th   percentile in reading who regularly read Newsela   articles and took quizzes, the startup saw an average increase of   12 percentile points in a   period. ’ ’   ”That’’s like passing hundreds of thousands of kids,” Gross says.   ”It’’s like they’’re speeding by them in the left lane of the   highway.” ’ ’   Newsela plans to partner with other research firms in the coming   years to expand the existing data set even further. Every new   piece of evidence helps the company tinker with its program to   best serve American students. ’ ’   If classroom technology keeps up its current pace of growth,   particularly  Gross believes the coveted 1:1 ratio  —   one   device for each child  —   will finally come to fruition in the   coming years. ’ ’   ”At that point, where    is the dominant paradigm within   schools, everything changes,” he says. ”So we’’re building for   that day.” ’