’  ’ ”   PHOENIX (AP)  —   Joe Arpaio, the   toughest sheriff   in America who could face criminal charges for ignoring a judge’s   order to stop targeting Latinos in   roundups, may   now have a new foe as he seeks    —   George Soros, the   billionaire liberal hedge fund tycoon. ” ’   The Republican sheriff already was battered politically and   support for him had been slipping when a group linked to Soros   mounted an   attack in an attempt to weaken his bid for   a seventh straight term. ’ ”   The group started sending fliers to   voters two weeks   ago, and a mailing last week accuses Arpaio of separating a   mother from her child because of an unpaid traffic ticket,   botching hundreds of sex crimes investigations and scaring   immigrants so much that that they don’t report crime. ” ’   Arpaio denies the claims and is easily capable of striking back   with a formidable $2. 9 million still available for campaign   spending ahead of the Nov. 8 vote, dwarfing the total $326, 000   raised by his challenger, Democrat Paul Penzone, a former Phoenix   police sergeant who lost to Arpaio by 6 percentage points in   2012. ’ ”   But the entry of a   group is a gift for Penzone, who   acknowledges he’ll never come close to matching Arpaio’s campaign   spending. ” ’   Over the last year, Soros contributed $3. 9 million to Democrats   in law enforcement political races in Chicago, St. Louis,   Orlando, Houston, Albuquerque, Lowndes County in Mississippi and   Caddo Parish in Louisiana, according to campaign finance records. ’ ’   Of the seven district attorney candidates   groups   have backed, two have already been elected and four won   primaries. Only one lost. ’ ’  ’ ’   In New Mexico, Soros gave $107, 000 to Raul Torrez, the winner of   the Democrat primary in June for the county that encompasses   Albuquerque  —   prompting Republican Simon Kubiak to drop out. ’ ’   Kubiak said he guaranteed Torrez victory because he could not   raise the money he would have needed to counterattack and because   he feared a barrage of negative ads. ’ ’   ”I would have accepted it, too,” Kubiak said of Soros’’ donation   to Torrez. ’ ”   Officials with the billionaire’s Soros Fund Management referred   comment on Soros’ political donations to Michael Vachon, a top   Soros adviser who serves as his personal spokesman. Vachon did   not respond to emailed requests for comment. ” ’   The new   group, Maricopa Strong, registered in Arizona   on Aug. 29, the day before Arpaio won his Republican primary   against three opponents. It is not required to file a report   detailing who made donations and spending until Sept. 29. ’ ”   But county records state Maricopa Strong’s chairwoman is Whitney   Tymas, a former public defense attorney in New York and Virginia   prosecutor who serves as treasurer for the   Safety   & Justice national political committee and groups with   similar names in Illinois, Florida, Texas and New Mexico. ” ’   Tymas did not respond to repeated phone and email messages   seeking comment, and Maricopa Strong spokeswoman Tania Torres did   not respond when asked by telephone and email if Soros had   provided the group with funding. ’ ’  ’ ”   The tenor of the ads shown for various local races and past   positions by   groups indicate he’s focused on   reducing perceived racial disparities within the criminal justice   system. His super political action committee gave more than $14   million from   including big sums to organizations trying   to elect Hillary Clinton. ” ’   The   flier accuses him of being ”obsessed with   immigrants at the expense of his job” and of making ”immigrant   communities scared to report crime for fear they will be harassed   by the Sheriff’’s Office.” ’ ’   The    Arpaio has denied he is   and that   his unfinished business includes an overhaul of his office after   his officers were found by a federal judge to have racially   profiled Latinos in traffic patrols that made him a national   figure in the immigration debate. ’ ’   Arpaio was found in civil contempt for failing to stop the   patrols after the judge ordered them halted in December 2011.   Federal prosecutors are deciding whether to file a criminal      case against him punishable by up to six months   of jail time if classified as a misdemeanor and an unspecified   sentencing range if deemed a felony. ’ ’   The list of local law and order campaigns Soros has bankrolled   have targeted other incumbents criticized for decisions involving   race. They include a $408, 000 donation to a   candidate   for prosecutor in Chicago who won the Democratic primary in March   against an incumbent criticized for charging a white police   officer a full year after the officer shot a black teenager dead. ’ ”   In Florida, the incumbent prosecutor for the Orlando area known   for prosecuting the Casey Anthony case attributed Soros’ money to   tipping voters against him during the last month of his campaign   before the Aug. 30 primary ” ’  ’ ’   Jeff Ashton said opponent Aramis Alaya gained momentum after a     group started running a TV spot on alleged legal   system racial disparities. ’ ’   ”She was done,” Ashton said. ”And then the huge amount of money   started pouring in.” ’ ”   Funding by the new   group could also impact the   presidential race because Arpaio is a strident Donald Trump   supporter. Democrats hope to rally Arizona’s Latinos  —   a voting   bloc including many who have long reviled the sheriff  —   to show   up to vote for Clinton in November. ” ”   Chad Willems, the sheriff’s campaign manager, said he suspected a       group from outside Arizona would get   involved in the campaign but doubted it would prevent Arpaio from   winning. ” ’   ”He is a known commodity here. The voters do still like him,”   Willems said. ’ ’   Penzone said in an interview that he has had no contact with   Maricopa Strong or Soros and doubted money funneled into the race   would level the playing field because Arpaio has so much. He has   spent $8. 9 million on his campaign so far. ’ ’   The development does show that some people outside Arizona want   Arpaio out, Penzone said. ’ ’   ”With his name recognition and tenure in office and all that   money, he is still falling short of expectations,” Penzone said. ’ ’   ___ ’ ’   Follow Jacques Billeaud at twitter. . His work   can be found at http:  . ap.   . ’