’  ’ ”   The polls have moved . And now everybody who doesn’t want him to be   president is trying to figure out why  —   and whether he’s going to   keep gaining. ” ”   Obviously, it’s been a  and most   of the poll analysis has focused on how she has hurt herself and   what she can do to improve her position. ” ”   But here’s the thought that’s making me nervous: What if the   shift in the polls is more about Donald Trump   campaigning better? ” ”   Specifically, what if it’s about the fact that he brought in a    started listening to her advice, and   became somewhat less   and more  ? ” ”   For example, Trump has resisted the temptation to talk   extensively about Clinton’s pneumonia, instead staying focused on   the  that he and   his team clearly believe works to his advantage. He has gotten   more attention for his positive policy messages. He even pulled   off a . ” ”   Most importantly, he’s so far avoided a repeat of the sorts of   episodes that seemed to be most damaging to him in the campaign:   When he attacked a   person on the basis of religion or   ethnicity, as he did with Khizr Khan and Gonzalo Curiel. ” ’   Obviously, these are all very low bars I am describing   Trump as having cleared, and he has continued to make   various outrageous statements and face various scandals. ’ ’   But low bars might be the right measure for the ”can Trump win”   question. ’ ’   For most of this campaign, Trump has been just a few points   behind Clinton despite running a comically inept   campaign. What if running a merely somewhat inept campaign   is good enough for him to catch up? ’ ”   It might seem like it’s too late. Trump has done a lot over   the last 15 months to cement negative images in many voters’   minds, and most of that damage is irreversible. ” ’   But a hallmark of Trump’’s career has been successful switching   from vitriolic insult to cordial dealmaking. He fires Omarosa and   then hires her back. You can even see it in his   tweets  —   he rails against the ”losers and haters” but then   he also wishes them well, and even says he sees potential in   them. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tLosers and haters, even you, as low and dumb as you are, can learn from watching Apprentice and checking out my   can still succeed! ’t’t’ ”   Trump won’t win over anywhere near a majority of the voters   he’s alienated, but his strange charisma positions him to win   over more than most similarly outrageous candidates would be able   to. ” ’   Finally, I think Trump is benefitting from a growing disconnect   between media and political elites in New York and   Washington and most white voters over issues of race. ’ ’   I think this disconnect is arising mostly from a   substantively laudable place: a greater focus on white   privilege and an accurate sense that aggrieved whites   are often upset about declining racial privilege, which is not   good cause for sympathy. ’ ’   But I worry this normative judgment is bleeding into a   positive one, causing some Democrats and some media   commentators to underestimate, for example, how much   a claim that half of Trump voters are ”deplorable”   bigots is likely to upset white voters who are strongly resistant   to the idea their friends and family  —   or themselves  —     are racist. ’ ”   Trump’s numbers with   voters are dismal and likely to   remain so. But approximately 72% of the November electorate will   consist of   whites, and his message is clearly   at least acceptable to a majority of white voters  —     more voters than Republican insiders thought would warm to it in   the primaries, more than Democrats thought it would go for it in   the general election, and more than most pundits thought   it could attract in either. ” ’   If Trump gets enough votes from whites, he can win the   election. ’ ’   One way he could do that is by being modestly less outrageous,   and thereby winning back some   whites who have   been telling pollsters they are preparing to abandon the   Republican nominee in record numbers, offsetting the unusual   strength Trump has already generated among   educated   whites. ’ ”   It’s entirely likely Trump’s poll rise will stop. The   factors I’m describing above might not be so important, and   Clinton’s numbers might bounce back when she gets back on the   campaign trail and back on message. Trump has been this close in   the polls before, and so far the equilibrium of this race has had   him narrowly but clearly behind. ” ’  ’ ”   The debates could also matter. Historically, they don’t seem to   have mattered much, but historically the candidates have been   more evenly matched in qualification and debating skill. ” ”   I think Trump’s roughest moment of the last month   politically was at last Wednesday’s Commander in Chief forum.   Half an hour of questioning on foreign policy brought a lot of   outlandish and   statements out of him. Three,     debates under much more pressure from Clinton   . ” ’   He could be needled into greater   again,   especially if he is upset about how Clinton criticizes him during   the debates. ’ ’   Finally, we are in uncharted territory in the sense that one   major party campaign is likely to have a far more developed   ground game for Election Day than the other. I would expect   this to help Clinton outperform her baseline, but I have no   idea if the effect is large or small. ’ ’   The question Business Insider global    Henry   Blodget keeps asking me is whether Trump is likely to win. I   still think the answer is ”no.” But honestly, I’’m a lot more   nervous than I’’ve been during the campaign. ’