’  ’ ’   A lawsuit filed in federal court Tuesday   against   ’ ’   Filed on behalf of seven black and Latino students who attend   five of the lowest performing schools in Detroit, the suit   describes ”  conditions” at the schools, ”lacking the   most basic educational opportunities.”   They  ’ ’   Because of these conditions, the suit argues, students remain   ”separate and unequal” and can’’t attain ”the level of literacy   necessary to function,” in addition to proficiency in other   subjects. As such, the suit alleges the district violates their   due process and equal protection under the   14th Amendment.  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Specific allegations in the suit range from a lack of teachers   and supplies to classroom temperatures that induced fainting and   vermin infestations. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   The suit also alleges a deficiency in clean and safe classroom   space to accompany the dwindling supplies. As many as 50 students   sit in some classrooms,    or on the floor, according   to the suit. As a result, classrooms, with either no or minimal   air conditioning, can reach as hot as 90 degrees. At Hamilton   Academy, a charter school attended by one of the   plaintiffs,  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Last year, the   and   math teacher at Hamilton   left the school due to frustration about class size and lack of   support. After a few failed attempts finding a replacement, the   ”highest performing”   student took over teaching both   grade levels, the suit alleges. ’ ’   ”As a direct result of the State’’s failure,” the suit says,   proficiency rates at the plaintiff’’s schools hover around zero   for all subjects. Students often struggle to write complete   sentences, let alone essays or longer assignments. In one   instance, an eleventh grader asked how to spell the word ”the.” ’ ”   Despite recent attempts at reform, Detroit schools suffer from   some of the worst test scores and graduation rates in the   country, not to mention crushing financial difficulty. The   new suit comes just eight months after  during President   Barack Obama’s visit to the city to call attention to the unsafe   and unhealthy conditions across the district. ” ’   In June,    which split the system in two districts: one for tax collection   and another for educating new students. Of the funds, $467   million went toward paying off operating debt at the former and   $150 provided the   cost for the latter,     district.  ’ ’   The package, however, had its critics.  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’