’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”We now have a unique opportunity to again put country ahead of   politics,” he said. ”I think many people who are in the Congress   of the United States understand what this is all about. They   understand the implications of trade.” ’ ’   Kasich outlined why the TPP is not only something that makes   sense economically, but something that is necessary for the US   geopolitical position in Asia, where both China and Russia are   looking to delegitimize its influence. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”To me, that’’s what’’s at stake,” he said. ”And frankly, that’’s   why I’’m here today.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Trump, who has championed a fiercely protectionist platform   during his presidential run, said the passing of TPP would lead   to  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   House Speaker Paul Ryan, who’s been a staunch supporter of the   agreement in the past, recently said it had to be renegotiated   while meeting with Wisconsin manufacturing workers in early   August. ” ’   ”I don’’t think there’’s a high likelihood (of the TPP’’s passage)   right now because . .. we don’’t have the votes to pass it because   people like me have problems with some significant provisions of   it that we believe need to get fixed,” . ”But here’’s the point: We do need trade   agreements. I know a lot of people say just get rid of trade   agreements; don’’t do trade agreements, and that’’s terrible.   That’’s a problem for us.” ’ ’   Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has also expressed support   for the deal in the past,  the deal might not come up for a vote   until the next president takes office. ’ ’   Although it would be hard to believe based on the campaign   rhetoric,  found that 60% of Americans stand in favor of the   deal, including a majority of both Democrats and Republicans. ’ ’  ’ ’   On Friday, Kasich also ran an   in  outlining his   support, which led him to express his deeper concerns about the   state of politics in the country during the press briefing. He   said the reaction to the   was less than warm. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”In a presidential campaign, and we’’ve seen a lot of them   and every one is defined as the most important one we’’ve had   in our history, but the fact of the matter is that goes on,” he   said. ”But this vote, by the current Congress of the United   States, is decided by the current makeup of the United States   Senate and the United States House.” ’ ’   ”I happen to believe  —   I don’’t want to try and project anyone   else’’s thinking  —   but this is a very serious matter,” he   continued. ”And when I see the presidential campaign going on,   it’’s almost a surreal   presidential election where if   you and I drafted a movie script about everything that was   happening on both sides with both candidates or even the whole   process, they would’’ve thrown us out of their offices out in   Hollywood because they would’’ve said this is a fiction that goes   beyond any fiction that would be acceptable.” ’ ’   Making note that he’’s ”never been” a strict ideological supporter   of free trade, Kasich said the agreement is ”a lot different than   NAFTA” because it involves China and Russia in a geopolitical   sense.  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”I think we’’ll work hard to try and pass it,” he said. ”The   strategy and the tactics, I don’’t know if they’’ve been developed   yet. And, let’’s be honest, the subject is hard to punch through   in the next six weeks.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Weaver said it will be absolutely necessary for Obama to use a   large amount of his political capital to get the deal through. If   not, ”it’’s not going to pass.” ’ ’   ”We have a carnival barker as a nominee on our side, and   Secretary Clinton has been pushed, unfortunately, she allowed   herself to be pushed by Bernie Sanders on the other,” Weaver   said. ”If the president will actually commit to working hard for   this, because it’’s not going to pass if he’’s not willing to use   political capital, and he now has a pretty high favorable rating   as he’’s getting ready to end his term, if he’’s willing to use   some of that political capital, we’’re willing to work with him to   get this done.” ’