’  ’ ’   A bombing left 29 people injured in New York City on   Saturday night in what Mayor Bill de Blasio called an   ”intentional act,” but said did not appear to be linked to   international terror groups. ’ ’  ’ ’   An initial explosion occurred in the Chelsea neighborhood on 23rd   Street between 6th and 7th Avenues around 8:30 p. m. ET, according   to the  A second   device resembling a pressure cooker was found four blocks away   and removed by police later in the night. ’ ’   The device that exploded 23rd Street contained components   ”indicative of an IED,” or  de Blasio said during a press conference on   Sunday. ’ ’     people were injured in the explosion, according   to the . By Sunday morning, all 29 had been   treated and released from hospitals, Cuomo said, though the area   of the explosion suffered significant damage. ’ ’   Investigators have yet to determine a motivation for the   explosion, and De Blasio cautioned against jumping to   conclusions. ’ ’   “We have a lot more work to do to say what kind of motivation was   behind this. Was it political? Was it personal? We don’t know   yet,” De Blasio said, describing the incident as ”violent,   intentional, and criminal.” ’ ’  ’ ’   In a press conference Saturday night, de Blasio said there was no   specific and credible threat against New York City. ’ ’   Cuomo said that while there was no current connection to   international terror groups, the incident would be investigated   as an act of terror. ’ ’   ”We will find who planted these explosives and they will be   punished,” Cuomo said. ”We will not allow these people and these   types of threats to disrupt our life in New York.” ’ ’   Police have no suspects but are reviewing security footage as   well as civilian video.  ’ ’   ”We are still in the process of trying to figure that out,”   police commissioner James O’’Neill said at a press conference,   according to . ’ ’ ’ ’Our first look at  of  explosion. Video credit: Orangetheory Fitness Chelsea.  ’ ’   A possible second device resembling a pressure cooker was   reportedly located at 27th Street between 6th and 7th Avenues,   . The NYPD bomb squad removed the device at 2:25   a. m.  ’ ’   The police department  to ”stay away from windows facing 27th   Street” until the ”suspicious package” was cleared.  ’ ”   Cuomo said both devices in New York City were similar in design   and evidence from both sites would be sent to the FBI’s lab   in Quantico, Virginia, for review. ” ’   Earlier on Saturday, a pipe bomb exploded near the site of a   charity event in New Jersey. That incident occurred shortly   before thousands of runners were due to participate in a charity   5K race to benefit US Marines and sailors, authorities said. New   York City officials say the two incidents do not appear to be   related. ’ ’   The White House said late Saturday night that President Barack   Obama had been briefed about the explosion. ’ ’  ’ ’     ’ ’ ’ ’Choppers circling the area. Still seeing more   arriving at the scene ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tCops still pushing people back further.   in the area have been evacuated  ’ ’ ’ ’  re: Explosion (photo)  ’ ’    Moments after the blast on  street    —   avidor. law (@JonAvidor)     ’ ’Moments after the blast on  street   ’ ’     ’ ’ Harrison Jacobs and Christina Sterbenz contributed to this   report.  ’