’  ’ ’   Emmys host Jimmy Kimmel lit up the Hollywood audience with jokes   about diversity and the making of Donald Trump during his opening   monologue on Sunday. ’ ”   After much controversy over diversity in Hollywood and the   Oscars’ continuing #OscarsSoWhite talk, Kimmel delivered a   backhanded compliment to the Emmys and Hollywood. ” ’   ”This year’’s nominees are the most diverse ever,” he said of the   2016 Emmys. ”And here in Hollywood, the only thing we value more   than diversity is congratulating ourselves on how much we value   diversity. The Emmys are so diverse this year, the Oscars are   telling people we’’re one of their closest friends.” ’ ’   He then had a person of color find a white person and ”say thanks   for your bravery.” Cue a hug between ”Modern Family” star Ty   Burrell and ”Master of None’’s” Aziz Ansari. ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tAnd for your use tonight when you’re feeling the love at the . cc:   ” ”   With that problem solved, Kimmel moved on to who should be blamed   for the rise of Donald Trump as this year’s Republican   presidential candidate. ” ’   ”If it weren’’t for television, would Donald Trump be running for   president? No,” Kimmel said. ”He would be at home right now   quietly rubbing up against his wife, Malaria, while she pretends   to be asleep.” ’ ’   Kimmel then wondered aloud about who exactly should be blamed for   the Trump phenomenon. In fact, Kimmel pointed out, that   person was sitting in the audience. ’ ’   ”That’’s right. That guy. Mark Burnett, the man who brought us   ’’Celebrity Apprentice,’’” Kimmel said. ”Thanks to Mark Burnett, we   don’’t have to watch reality shows anymore, because we’’re living   in one. Thank you, Mark.” ’ ’ ’ ’’ ’   He then nominated Burnett to be the first one thrown over the   wall if Trump wins and actually builds it on the border to   Mexico. ’ ”   Kimmel wasn’t done pointing fingers. He jokingly announced that   the show had a new rule that winners had to be present to accept   the award or it would go to the next person on the list. Who   inspired the rule change? ” ’   ”It’’s called the Maggie Smith rule,” he said of the ”Downton   Abbey” actress. ”If you don’’t know Maggie Smith, she has been   nominated for the Emmy nine times. She has won the Emmy three   times. How many times do you think she showed up here to get   the Emmy? That’’s right, no times. This year, she had a Sunday   ceramics class.” ’ ” Watch Kimmel’s opening monologue below: ” ’     ’ ’     ’