’  ’ ’   Ahmad Khan Rahami, a      man,  in connection with bombings in   New York City and New Jersey over the weekend. ’ ’   Police arrested him after an exchange of gunfire in Linden, New   Jersey, that left the suspect wounded. ’ ”   Details about Rahami are slowly starting to emerge. Here’s   everything we know about him so far: ” ”• He’s an American citizen. Rahami was born in   Afghanistan in 1988, and  he came to the United States as   a child in 1995 as the son of an asylum seeker. The FBI described   him as a naturalized US citizen whose last known address was in   Elizabeth, New Jersey. ” ’• He became a ”completely different person” after   a trip to Afghanistan. Four years ago, he   visited his native Afghanistan, and changed drastically   upon returning to the US.  after his trip, Rahami   started growing a beard, wearing traditional Muslim clothing, and   praying at work. He also   became noticeably more serious. ”It’s like he was a   completely different person,” Flee Jones, who grew up with   Rahami, told the Times. ”He got serious and completely   closed off.” ’ ’• He was   known as a class clown in high   school, according to Maria, Rahami’’s high school   sweetheart and the mother of his daughter. Maria  that Rahami often   criticized American culture and American military, but she ”never   thought he would do something like this.” ’ ’• He made multiple   trips to Pakistan. One yearlong visit resulted in his   marriage to a Pakistani woman, .  ’ ”• He’s believed to have connections to three bomb   incidents this weekend: One bomb exploded in New Jersey   before the start of a charity race on Saturday morning; another   exploded in New York City on Saturday night and injured 29   people; and additional unexploded devices were found in New   Jersey on Sunday. ” ’   Rahami is not believed to have a connection to a  on Saturday, for which ISIS has   claimed responsibility. ’ ’• There’’s no evidence he’’s connected to ISIS, Al Qaeda,   or other foreign terror organizations. However,   authorities are exploring a possible link to international   terrorist groups. After initially insisting the New York bombings   weren’’t linked to international terrorism, New York City Mayor   Bill de Blasio  the attack appeared to be a ”specific act of   terror.” New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo said he ”would not be   surprised if we did have a foreign connection to the act.” ’ ”• Rahami’s family had issues with their local   government. Rahami’s father’s restaurant, First American   Fried Chicken, in Elizabeth, was open 24 hours a day and drew   complaints from neighbors about rowdy crowds and loitering,   . Rahami and his brothers   worked at the restaurant. The Rahamis did not comply with a City   Council ordinance to close the restaurant at 10 p. m. and one of   Rahami’s brothers was arrested after fighting a police officer   who came to close the restaurant, but fled to Afghanistan before   the case could be resolved. ” ’   According to The Times, the Rahami family sued the city, the   police department, and about 15 police officers,   claiming they had been discriminated against because of   their race and ethnicity. ’ ’    ’ ”• He’s gotten in trouble with the law before. A   New Jersey apartment complex filed a   civil action   suit against Rahami in 2013,  although the outcome of the case is   unknown. Rahami also lost $1, 158 in a small claims judgment in   2012, according to USA Today. ” ’• The devices found in New York City were made with   pressure cookers, flip phones, and Christmas lights. The   explosives were  with ”small bearings or metal BBs” to inflict as much   damage as possible, according to . ’ ’• Police found Rahami sleeping in a bar. A bar   owner in Linden, New Jersey, called authorities about a man   sleeping in the hallway of his bar. An officer recognized the man   as Rahami, and  between the two. The officer was hit in   his bulletproof vest over his abdomen. Rahami fled the bar and   was eventually shot multiple times by other officers. One other   officer  in the gunfight. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tLinden, NJ mayor says Ahmad Rahami found sleeping in bar by owner; police recognized him.   ’