’  ’ ’   Donald Trump railed against the US justice system at a rally in   Florida on Monday after a suspect was apprehended in connection   with bombings in New York and New Jersey. ’ ’   ”Today, we have caught this evil thug who planted the bombs,”   Trump said. ”  law enforcement.   police.   Right. But the bad part  —   we will probably give him amazing   hospitalization. He will be taken care of by some of the best   doctors in the world. He will be given a fully modern and updated   hospital room.” ’ ’   Trump continued: ”And he’’ll probably even have room service, the   way our country is. And on top of all of that, he will be   represented by an outstanding lawyer. His case will go through   the various court systems for years, and in the end people will   forget and his punishment will not be what it once would have   been.” ’ ’   Police officers in Linden, New Jersey,  after a shootout   late Monday morning. He was wanted in connection to three   incidents throughout the weekend: a bombing along the route of a   New Jersey charity race Saturday morning, a bombing Saturday   night in New York City that injured 29 people, and the discovery   of additional bombs in Elizabeth, New Jersey, on Sunday night. ’ ’   Rahami was charged with five counts of attempted murder of a     officer on Monday in relation to the shootout.   Prosecutors were still deciding on charges related to the   bombings, and no motive in the attacks had been revealed, though   public officials have begun to suggest terrorism, with Gov.   Andrew Cuomo of New York telling CNN on Monday morning that he   ”would not be surprised if we did have a foreign connection to   the act.” ’ ’’ ’   Trump said that while the country needed fair trials, it also   needed ”just and very harsh punishment” for terrorists. ’ ’   ”We must also use whatever lawful methods are available to obtain   information from the apprehended suspect to get information   before it’’s no longer timely,” Trump said. ’ ’   The New York billionaire has previously advocated interrogation   techniques such as waterboarding. ’ ’   Trump, the Republican presidential nominee, also railed against   Hillary Clinton, his Democratic rival, in his speech. ’ ’   ”Hillary Clinton is a weak and ineffective person, and I will   tell you if you choose Donald Trump, these problems are going to   go away far, far greater than anybody would think,” Trump said.   ”Believe me.” ’ ”   He said that America’s enemies wanted Clinton to be president. ” ’   ”They want her so badly to be your president  —   you have no idea,”   Trump said. ”It will be a field day.” ’ ’   Clinton on Monday characterized Trump in much the same way,   telling reporters: ”We know that Donald Trump’’s comments have   been used online for recruitment of terrorists.  who made it a very clear   point when he said Donald Trump is being used as a ’’recruiting   sergeant’’ for the terrorists. The kinds of rhetoric and language   that Mr. Trump has used is giving aid and comfort to our   adversaries.” ’