’  ’ ’   Right now, Congress is celebrating its affirmation of House   Resolution 835, which, in an almost unanimous vote, garnered 385   yeas and four nays. ’ ’   This kind of bipartisan support is rare these days. So what   united Republicans and Democrats? Of all possible   things —  including a failed resolution regarding  —  it was fintech. ’ ’   HR 835 calls for the U. S. to “adopt a national policy for   technology to promote consumers’ access to financial tools and   online commerce to promote economic growth and consumer   empowerment. ” ’ ’   In plain English, this resolution (not yet a law) demands   our government develop a policy to create tools to help consumers   understand and manage financial assets. The language also   encourages prioritizing the acceleration of development that   supports transparency and security —  “technology experts can play   an important role in the future development of     technology applications,” it says. ’ ’   The creators of these tools would likely be private versus     businesses, a. ka. fintech companies. ’ ’   Congressional support for fintech is long overdue for the   industry, which right now faces huge consumer demand amid growing   pains. It’s also great for consumers, for whom this very industry   was created. Take, for example, marketplace lending, which arose   from consumer demand for easier and faster access to capital   following the 2008 crash. Marketplace lending was a     for consumers who had    FICO scores or credit   histories. ’ ’  ’ ’   To help them, LendingClub, Prosper, and others offered a   lifeline, superior in cost and speed than to what traditional   banks were offering. Consumers, in turn, paid higher interest   rates than prime borrowers did, which fueled positive returns for   investors on the platform. This cyclical nature of the exchange   benefited everyone. ’ ’   Now, just eight years after this industry was created, we’re at   an inflection point. Why? Because much of the alternative lending   space is starting to rely on institutional investors, many of   them from the same banks marketplace lenders were originally   expecting to displace. ’ ’   These investors —  from institutions like Jefferies, Goldman Sachs,   and Morgan Stanley —  are now backing much of the capital that   allows fintech companies to lend money to consumers in innovative   ways. ’ ’   Don’t they also deserve tools that provide transparency? ’ ’   It’s heartening to see the emphasis on transparency for   consumers —  from Congress, from the    and from the .   It’s imperative that consumers understand what’s available to   them, what they’re signing up for, and how they can access better   rates and cheaper capital. ’ ’   But while tools that provide transparency for consumers are   vital, tools that provide transparency for   investors are perhaps even more important to our economy. ’ ’   Online lending’s new reliance on capital markets means that the   more investors are interested in backing the loans, the better   the terms are for consumers. Conversely, it also means   that if institutional investors pull back, loan availability   shrinks while interest rates rise. ’ ’   So how do we make it easier for traditional institutional   investors to participate in fintech? ’ ’   Much in the same way we can make it easier for consumers —  by   encouraging the development of tools that heighten transparency   and empower investors to make smarter, faster decisions. ’ ’  ’ ’   Tools that provide transparency for investors can take several   different forms. Some offer the ability to analyze loan level   data prior to making an investment. Others offer access to clean   data, standardizing the original data from numerous originators   so investors can run comparisons quickly and efficiently across   portfolios. And others import data from originator spreadsheets   and place it into a modern online portal, allowing investors to   pivot, drill down, and analyze thousands of points in a matter of   seconds. (The best tools do all three.) ’ ’   Call it fintech, investor tech, or (about time) innovation.   Whatever form these tools take, what doesn’t change is their   mutual goal: to leverage technology to help investors know   what they’re buying before they buy, and to track ongoing   portfolio performance in as close to   as possible. ’ ’   That’s optimal transparency. And investors deserve it as much as   consumers do. ’ ’ Perry Rahbar is a former mortgage bond trader and founder of    a fintech   startup aiming to bring transparency to lending   markets.  ’ ’Get updates in your inbox.’ ’Subscribe to Fintech Briefing and never miss an update!’