’  ’ ’   Jawbone, the richly valued maker of wearable gadgets and wireless   speakers, appears to be on increasingly shaky financial   footing as it struggles to pay vendors and keep inventory in   stock. ’ ’   Jawbone abruptly ended its relationship with   the customer service agency NexRep earlier this month after   Jawbone failed to make payments, according to an internal NexRep   email viewed by Business Insider. ’ ’   The email, written to NexRep employees by a NexRep executive,   claims that Jawbone is ”struggling financially” and that it   couldn’’t pay NexRep for its services. It also says Jawbone is   ”fighting hard” to raise more funding. ’ ’   ”Jawbone is not able to pay us for past services, and their   ability to pay us in the future is uncertain at this point,” the   NexRep email reads. ’ ’   Jawbone also quietly sold part of its speaker business recently,   a company representative confirmed to Business Insider. ’ ”   Jawbone’s failure to pay NexRep had nothing to do with the   quality of the firm’s services, the email notes. NexRep   stopped working for Jawbone on September 9. ” ’   The move affected 93 jobs at NexRep, with many   staffers being laid off. Some NexRep employees were   transferred to work with other clients, according to a   person familiar with the matter. ’ ’   A Jawbone spokesperson said that the company is reviewing its   bills for NexRep and ”restructuring” its customer service. ’ ”   The NexRep vice president who wrote the email declined to comment   when contacted by Business Insider. Multiple messages left   for NexRep’s CEO went unreturned. ” ”   Jawbone also appears to be having inventory problems,   a person familiar with NexRep and Jawbone’s relationship   said. NexRep previously had access to Jawbone product   inventory that it relied on to replace the defective or damaged   devices that customers returned, but shipments slowed practically   to a halt in recent weeks, according to this person. This made it   nearly impossible for NexRep to send customers replacement   units. ” ’   Another curious sign: All of Jawbone’’s products are listed as   ”sold out” on the  as of this writing. There appears to be limited   availability of some Jawbone products on Amazon. Jawbone hasn’’t   released a new product since the spring of 2015, but the company   has said it is developing a ”clinical grade” fitness tracker. ’ ’  ’ ”   Jawbone’s  is littered with complaints from customers saying they   have been unable to get in touch with a customer service   representative to help with defective products. The Jawbone   Facebook account has been responding to these issues, blaming a   backup of complaints for the delays. A Jawbone spokesperson said   the complaints were because of Jawbone’s customer service   restructuring. ” ’   Another person close to Jawbone told Business Insider that there   is almost no inventory left and the company is running out of   options to generate revenue. The company has sold its customer   service inventory to a   based in New Zealand, the    this source says. A Jawbone spokesperson disputed this   claim, saying the company did sell some inventory to a   distributor in New Zealand, but still has some inventory left to   handle customer service requests. ’ ” that Jawbone was having   difficulty paying vendors and that it was considering a sale of   the company. The speculation among some Jawbone employees now is   that the company might sell to a private equity firm if it can’t   raise more money, the person close to the company said. ” ’   Jawbone declined to comment on a possible sale. ’ ’   Jawbone also declined to explain why its inventory has sold out.   A spokesperson said, ”they have sold through what they have   to sell.” The company said it was not because it couldn’’t   pay vendors though. It would not provide any estimate on   when products would be available for sale on its site again, but   did say it planned to make more products. ’ ’   Jawbone CEO Hosain Rahman is seeking investment from an Asian   company to keep the company going as it targets a     release date for its next product, the person close to the   company said. In the meantime, the company is essentially   operating week to week, according to the source. Jawbone declined   to comment on its cash position and its product roadmap. ’ ’   Several people are leaving the company each week, according to   multiple sources. This summer, the company lost its head of   product Travis Bogard. Bogard is now working at Uber, . ’ ’   Jawbone has also been trying to sell its Jambox Bluetooth speaker   business since early this year. A Jawbone spokesperson said   ”part” of the Jambox business has been sold, but did not   elaborate further. ’ ’   Jawbone raised $165 million in January at a $1. 5 billion   valuation, . That valuation   was down from its peak valuation of about $3 billion,   Swisher reported. A Jawbone spokesperson told Business Insider in   August that those valuation numbers are incorrect, but declined   to elaborate further. ’ ’   Jawbone has raised about $983 million in total,  which tracks funding for private   companies. ’