’  ’ ’   There are a few basic questions every journalist   might ask before they interview someone. ’ ”   How do you spell your name? What’s your title? How old are you? ” ”   But now, writers at one major newspaper will be asking one more   question: What’s your pronoun? ” ’   The San Francisco Examiner is adopting a policy requiring   writers to ask subjects if they wish to be referred to as ”he,”   ”she,” or ”they,”    Michael Howerton announced    on Thursday. ’ ’   The change is an effort to ”represent everybody as accurately as   we can,” as well as making the paper ”more inclusive” and ”more   responsive” to its community, Howerton wrote. ’ ’   ”If we strive to tell the story of San Francisco and the stories   of the people who live here, the language we use to do so must be   up to the task,” he wrote. ’ ’   The Examiner will also start using the pronoun ”they” in   situations where nonspecific people are mentioned, like in   the phrase ”Nobody in their right mind” (or like in the   first sentence of this article). ’ ’   ”Editors like to tell reporters they should assume nothing when   covering a story,” Howerton wrote. ”So relying on ’’he’’ and ’’she’’   to reference individuals without asking which one is accurate is   lazy at best and wrong and damaging at worst.” ’ ’   ”Just as we would be loath to ascribe nationality, religion,   social and economic status or race to a passerby on the street,   so it is with gender as well,” he added. ’ ’  ’ ’   Arguments for inclusive language are becoming increasingly   mainstream, and the Examiner is not the first news outlet to take   a progressive stance on the matter.  ’ ’   The Washington Post updated its style guide in December to accept   ”they” as a singular pronoun, particularly for people who don’’t   conform to the gender binary. ’ ’   ”What finally pushed me from acceptance to action on     pronouns was the increasing visibility of     people,” copyeditor Bill Walsh  announcing the change. ’ ’   The American Dialect Society cited The Post’’s example when   it named ”they” its  in a vote among linguists,   grammarians, and lexicographers. ’ ’   The New York Times also  in 2015 by using the honorific ”Mx.”   instead of ”Mr.” or ”Mrs.” when one of its subjects preferred not   to be assigned a gender. ’ ’   Howerton argued that, while the use of the singular ”they” might   be unusual for readers at first, it will become second nature   over time. More importantly, he said, it’’s a way for the   newspaper to gain the trust of the people they interview and   report on. ’ ’   ”Our intention is to celebrate, dignify and respect the   affirmations people make about their identities,” Howerton wrote   in his column. ”We want to honor the identities of those we write   about, not enforce gender binary language or diminish anyone’s   right to their own.” ’