’  ’ ’ ’ ’ This post originally appeared on : ’ ’   We fly connected planes and design   cars, but what   about smart trains? ’ ’   If you pay close attention, there is the faint sound of the   whistle coming from around the digital bend. ’ ’   At this week’s InnoTrans 2016 transportation trade show in   Berlin, for example, GE is unveiling a “superbrain” platform for   locomotives that transforms them into mobile data   headquarters —  helping make trains smarter and faster. ’ ’   “A decade from now, digital tools will take railroad productivity   and efficiency to unprecedented levels,” says Seth Bodnar, chief   digital officer at GE Transportation. “The whole network will   light up like a brain. ” ’ ’   It’s about time. ’ ’   Bodnar’s train brain will help railways boost locomotive   horsepower, improve operations and burn less fuel. ’ ’   “It’s really about enabling   trains in a smart   ecosystem,” he says. ’ ’  ’ ’   In the age of consumption and climate change, this is important   stuff. For starters, freight has big environmental benefits. ’ ’   On average, railroads are four  than trucks, according to the   Association of American Railroads, and moving more freight to   rails would cut down on traffic and pollution on highways. ’ ’   Consider that a single   GE Evolution Series locomotive   can pull the equivalent of . ’ ’   The brain connects to GoLINC —  an onboard software and computing   platform that turns a locomotive into what is essentially a   mobile data center. The system is already in more than 6, 000   trains. ’ ’   GoLINC allows train operators to gather information from track   sensors and cameras to better understand the flow of rail traffic   and road conditions. It uses the data to make intelligent   decisions, even while traveling through the Rockies or the Mojave   Desert. ’ ’   But the system is just part of GE’s vision for the   industry’s digital future. ’ ’   The company wants to connect all of its 21, 000 locomotives,   pulling freight and passengers in 50 countries, to    its   software platform for the Industrial Internet. ’ ’   Right now the U. S. rail industry deals with 500, 000 delays a   year, and one in every four trains experiences some kind of   unplanned downtime. ’ ’  ’ ’   By making trains smarter and connecting them to the Industrial   Internet, freight companies can reduce this downtime. ’ ’   GoLINC, working with other Predix train apps such as Trip   Optimizer and Yard Planner, can anticipate maintenance problems   so operators can resolve them before they become a problem. They   can see where lines are running efficiently and where routes need   to be reworked. ’ ’   Even a small improvement in efficiency can make a big difference. ’ ’   A 1 percent reduction in wait times at stops can save $2. 2   billion, GE says. A 1 mph rise in speed can save $2. 5 billion. ’ ’   And while new locomotives, such as GE’s T4, are coming off the   production lines complete with sensors and the latest data   analytics technology, GE is also upgrading older engines at half   the cost of buying a new train. ’ ’   “We start targeting locomotives for an upgrade when they’re about   15 or 20 years old,” says John Manison, a senior business   operations executive for GE’s locomotive modernization program.   “But we do modernizations in locomotives up to 40 years old  —     giving them 20 more years of life is a lot. ” ’ ’Get updates in your inbox.’ ’Subscribe to Digital Industry Insider and never miss an update!’