’  ’ ”   I don’t know much of anything about Snapchat because I’m frankly   just too old to get it. ” ”   But I have a    daughter, and she and her friends get   Snapchat and then some. They use it constantly  —   it’s by far   their most beloved app. ” ”   Are they going to be instant customers for the newly renamed Snap   Inc. ’s Spectacles and new wearable video recorder that ? ” ”   At $129 a pop, it’s not a   outlay for a parent, or   even a teen with some money saved up. These things could be big   this holiday season, assuming they’re even available. ” ”   There is something oddly brilliant about Spectacles, and succeed   or fail, I think they prove that CEO Evan Spiegel is able to   leverage his youth  —   he’s only 26  —   to dial into some interesting   business opportunities. ” ”   They don’t look to me a like a    kind of thing.   Actually, they very much remind me of a bunch of   fads   from my own   youth in the 1970s. You may have heard of   some this goofy stuff, like pet rocks and mood rings. ” ’   Spectacles look large and kind of silly  —   Spiegel has called them   a ”toy”  —   and they come in basic black as well as two offbeat   colors, the always popular teal and coral. They can only record   up to 10 seconds of video, so they’’re clearly only useful as a   Snapchat accessory. You play around with them for a few months   and then move on. Fad finished. ’ ’  ’ ’   OK, maybe they stick around and are improved. But how much fun   could that be? Spiegel has to be too cool to have missed the   negative reception that Google Glass received. ’ ”   One thing I’ve noticed about digitally sophisticated kids who   aren’t yet of driving age is that they cycle through their   enthusiasms quite a bit faster than previous generations. This   appears new because they’re all using the mobile internet, but it   also feels very ’70s to me. That was a decade when all kinds of   trends came and went rapidly, in music, culture, fashion, and   even politics. ” ”   I tried this theory out on my    and she agreed that   they were possibly a neat gimmick  —   they reminded her of some   other recent fads, like hoverboards, something I hadn’t thought   about. ” ’   But something that Spiegel probably has. ’