’  ’ ’   With the recent unrest surrounding   shootings,   especially of black men, policing will likely take a front seat   throughout the remainder of the election. ’ ’   Both candidates face the difficult task of navigating    ’ ’   Relying on arrest data and the deaths of those like Michael   Brown, Alton Stirling, and most recently,  the Black Lives Matter movement and its   supporters feel police disproportionately use force against   people of color because of inherent racism present in the     system. ’ ’   The other end of the spectrum, however, feels police face   unnecessary criticism for a difficult job that requires officers   put their lives on the line everyday. ’ ’   As a result of these opposing views, protests  —   both peaceful and   not  —   have erupted in cities across the country. In many ways,   the growing schism reflects how differently Clinton and Trump   plan to address policing if elected. ’ ’  ’ ’   To start, Clinton’’s campaign website includes a section titled   ”” that focuses heavily on police reform. Most notably,   she wants to strengthen bonds between communities and police  —   a   strategy known as community policing that’’s grown in popularity   since the ’’80s  —   and to develop national guidelines on officers’’   use of force. ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   While  doesn’’t include a specific section   dedicated to criminal justice or policing, he often calls himself   the ”   candidate.” ’ ’   M has repeatedly urged respect and appreciation   for police and reminded the country of their role in preventing   terrorism. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   As for federal laws to reduce or stop racial profiling, Trump   addressed his plans in a   which endorsed his   candidacy in  .   ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Civil rights legislation should be advanced if there is a clear   need for edification of certain civil rights that are being   violated,” Trump wrote. ’ ”   Despite Trump’s vague statement in the questionnaire regarding   profiling, in an interview with Bill O’Reilly in September, Trump    to combat   terrorism. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Trump also pledged his support for a bipartisan bill that would   expand federal   laws to protect police officers in the    questionnaire. Known as the ”Blue   Lives Matter” law, that additional protection already exists in   Louisiana, the first state to adopt the controversial provision. ’ ’   That information came as a response to a question from the Order   about the ”high level of hostility” and ”hateful rhetoric” facing   police officers. ’ ’   Aside from standardizing use of force on a nationwide level,   Clinton proposes to acknowledge and tackle the existence of   implicit bias in policing by proposing $1 billion in her first   budget to fund new and better training. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Trump’s policies on training, however, remain somewhat vague. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’