’  ’ ’   David Plouffe, President Barack Obama’’s 2008 campaign manager,   told Business Insider on Monday that Hillary Clinton can’’t be too   ” ” to attack Donald Trump in the night’’s first   presidential debate. ’ ’   He added that Clinton must speak ”from the gut” about both her   motivations to be president and about how her ideas will improve   the lives of average Americans. ’ ’   ”That’’s far and away the most important thing,” he said. ”I think   the most important thing is for undecided voters to have a better   sense of her the person, kind of what her motivations are. I   think for members of the   Obama coalition, who aren’’t as   passionate about her candidacy, to get them more excited. And I   think to show that there is still a gap between her and Donald   Trump in terms of who’’s fit to be   .” ’ ’   If she manages to do that, the first debate should be a success,   he said. ’ ’   She’’ll have to ”look for opportunities” when it comes to going on   the offensive against the Republican nominee. ’ ’   ”When it comes to Trump, you can’’t overdo it,” he said. ”If you   are   or swerving out of the lane to get him to trip   up, that probably won’’t work.” ’ ’   ”So you can prepare and practice and sometimes your stand in will   say what the candidate says at the exact moment, but usually   not,” he continued. ”So there’’s just judgment on the stage about   when to engage, when to   when to really have a   moment.” ’ ”   A major difference between preparing for Trump as opposed to   candidates for which Plouffe prepared Obama  —   Sen. John   McCain of Arizona, the 2008 GOP nominee, or former Gov. Mitt   Romney of Massachusetts, the 2012 GOP    —   is   that it’s up in the air which version of the Manhattan   billionaire will be on stage at Hofstra University on Monday   night. ” ’   ”Trump might be very docile or sedated, and try and just nice guy   his way through the debate,” he said. ”I think authenticity   matters a lot in politics, so that’’s a big departure from how   he’’s conducted himself. So I’’m not so sure in the long run that   works, but you’’ve got to prepare for multiple Trumps in multiple   moments.” ’ ’   But Clinton must focus on what she is ”trying to do as president   before you even get to your opponent,” he added. ’ ’   ”So, and to understand that these aren’’t policy  —   policy is   important and issues are important  —   but these are as much about   performance,” he continued. ’ ’  ’ ’   Plouffe said that aspect was ”always hard for” Obama because of   his style of building up lengthier arguments. ’ ’   ”Because he’’s a lawyer by training and he likes to build up to   his closing argument.” Plouffe said. ’ ”   Looking back at how he helped Obama prepare for his first   presidential debate in 2008 against McCain, Plouffe said there   was a major focus on proving that the   from Illinois   was prepared to be   . It’s somewhat similar to   what Trump is facing in Monday’s titanic event. ” ’   ”We were doing well in the race, [but] we had to cross a bar in   terms of being prepared to be  ” he said. ”And   that was a debate centered on national security, so it was a   great opportunity.” ’ ’   ”I mean Trump has to do a similar thing, but I think he’’s got   more business,” he continued. ”I will say this . .. I’’ve helped   prepare for six of these  —   these are human beings up there on   that stage. And you just don’’t know what’’s going to happen. They   are not automatons. Things happen in all these debates that you   don’’t prepare for, both good and bad.” ’ ”   In an unprecedented way, the moderator of Monday’s debate  —   NBC’s   Lester Holt  —   is under more pressure from external sources than   any prior debate moderator. ” ’   Plouffe said the performance of the moderator, and how he decides   to   the event, ”should be the last thing on” the mind   of either candidate. ’ ’   ”He knows what he needs to do,” Plouffe said. ”I think it’’s an   interesting debate to me, because I’’ve watched every debate   multiple times to get ready for the prep we have to do, and no   moderator just reads the queue cards. Anybody can do that.” ’ ’   ”But you know, they will have a light touch and decide where to   move the discussion,” he continued. ”I’’m sure he’’ll do a great   job. But if you’’re a candidate, you can’’t worry about what the   moderator does. You’’ve got to take care of your own business.” ’ ’   Holt selected ”America’’s Direction,” ”Achieving Prosperity,” and   ”Securing America,” as the three topics for the debate, leaving   plenty of room for broad questioning throughout the     affair, which will be broken down into six   segments. ’ ’   Plouffe said the broadness of the debate is ”good practice” for   the next two, which include a more open town hall event. ’ ’   ”You’’ve got to look at each [topic] and understand you want to be   responsive to the questions but you also have to understand where   you want to drive the discussion, both in terms of the contrast   with your opponents but in terms of your own plans,” he said.   ”This is a broad ranging set of issues.” ’ ’   ”Now, the town hall is the one that’’s the most complicated to   prepare for because you know you’’re getting citizens,” he   continued. ”Citizens ask questions in ways that are different   than journalists. It tends to be broad reaching, and you always   tend to have a question or two you didn’’t prepare for. I think   that’’s the most engaging debate for the American people. But this   is the big one, because the audience is going to be huge. And,   you know, I think it’’s your best way to communicate directly with   voters. The filter is important, but most Americans that you care   about are going to be watching this debate, which is amazing.” ’