’’ ’Police violence against civilians, particularly black men, has once again drawn national scrutiny following the fatal shootings of Terence Crutcher, 40, in Tulsa, Oklahoma, on September 16; Keith Lamont Scott, 43, in Charlotte, North Carolina, on September 20; and  on Tuesday.’ ”Protests erupted in Charlotte after Scott’s death, leading to clashes with police officers in riot gear and the death of one man, Justin Carr, 26,  during demonstrations in the city.” ’The shootings of Scott and Crutcher, and the police shootings in July of Alton Sterling and Philando Castile, have drawn widespread media attention, but they are only a few of the police shootings that have happened this year. Officers have  in 2016  —   though many of those shootings are likely justified  —   and are on track to shoot as many people in 2016 as they did in 2015, according to The Washington Post. ’ ’In September, police officers have killed 69 people  —     —   according to  and . ’ ’September 1: Caleb Douglas, 18, was pulled over on suspicion of drunken driving in Kansas. Authorities claim he pulled out a gun and pointed it at the deputy and fired it once before the deputy fired back, . Douglas drove the car shortly before crashing it. September 1: Ed Holdup, 60, was  after he hit an officer with his car, according to authorities.’ ’September 1: Joshua Quintero, 23, was suspected of shooting another person in California. He pulled out a gun after fleeing officers and was  when the police caught up with him at the end of an alley, the police say.’ ’September 1: An unknown man of Hispanic or Latino descent in California reportedly refused to leave while a work crew was trying to clear railroad tracks. The man, thought to be homeless, ”armed himself” with rocks before he was shocked by a Taser, authorities said. As the police tried to handcuff him, he grabbed a lead pipe and was .’ ”September 2: Joseph Moreno, 38, was  after exchanging gunfire following a chase. There were multiple warrants out for Moreno’s arrest; Officer Clint Corvinus was also killed.” ’September 2: Michael Musson, 22, was  after being accused of trying to break into multiple homes. Musson reportedly attacked the responding officer with a shard of glass, and the officer shot and killed Musson.’ ’September 2: Michael Thompson Jr. 38, was fatally . Thompson had violated his parole and was pulled over for a traffic violation. He reportedly fired once at the officer pursuing him, who then returned fire, killing Thompson, authorities say.’ ’September 2: Randall Rodick, 40, who was reportedly suicidal, shot at officers in Chicago twice and severely injured an officer during a chase. He was then  authorities say.’ ’September 3: Cameron Ayers, 25, was fatally  after the car he was a passenger in was pulled over; Ayers was wanted on an outstanding warrant, and an officer opened fire after attempting to arrest Ayers, authorities say. Two knives were found in the car, but it remains unclear whether Ayers was armed.’ ’September 3: Donny Daugherty, 36, was fatally  after exchanging gunfire with officers who were pursuing him, authorities say; he had been accused of entering a home and assaulting someone.’ ’September 3: Jeremiah Ramirez was fatally  after he stole a car at gunpoint and pointed a shotgun at officers attempting to take him into custody, authorities say. His age is unknown.’ ’September 3: Jerome Damon, 25, was fatally  after the car he was riding in was stopped by officers investigating a robbery. Damon and two other men in the car then started firing at officers with assault weapons, and the officers returned fire, according to authorities.’ ’September 4: Jose Romero was fatally  after he apparently told family members he wanted to die by ”suicide by cop.” Authorities say he lunged at officers with a knife before he was shot.’ ”September 4: Simon Gomez, 44, was fatally  after the police responded to a call from Gomez’s wife, who said she was worried Gomez would hurt her children. Officers say they then found Gomez holding each of his two children at knifepoint in their home. After he repeatedly ignored orders to drop the knives, an officer shot and killed Gomez.” ’September 5: Cesar Garcia, 35, was fatally  after officers say they responded to a   call. Authorities claim Garcia pointed a rifle at the police, who then fatally shot Garcia.’ ”September 5: Moses Ruben, 36, was  in Texas after he was pulled over for speeding. Authorities say Ruben had an invalid license and there were numerous outstanding warrants for Ruben’s arrest. After Ruben ignored commands to get out of his car and drove into two police vehicles, officers opened fire and killed Ruben.” ”September 6: Bernard Cottrell, 65, was fatally  by the police in West Virginia after a pursuit during which Cottrell pointed a gun at officers, according to the state police. Cottrell was accused of firing a gun at a relative’s home before being pursued by the police.” ’September 6: David Anderson, 25, was fatally shot  while officers were attempting to arrest him on felony drug charges, according to authorities.’ ’September 6: Dylan Papa, 25, was fatally shot  after his mother called the police claiming that Papa was arguing with her with a sword. Papa, who was wanted on felony drug charges, fled before the police responded but then returned. The police say they tried to negotiate with Papa before he came at them armed with a large knife. Officers reportedly fired multiple shots before killing Papa.’ ’September 6: Larry Whitehead, 70, was  after a ”confrontation” during which officers say they found him armed with a gun after responding to a disturbance call’ ’September 6: Steven Del Rio, 31, was  following a ” ” car chase. Del Rio and several others were suspected in the armed robbery of a credit union, and footage shows undercover police cars forcing Del Rio’’s car to stop before the police shoot him dead.’ ”September 7: Donald Degraw, 58,  shortly after being shocked by officers with a Taser. Authorities say Degraw’s wife called the police twice in the same day, saying her husband was screaming and acting strangely. After the second call, authorities say they tried to handcuff Degraw to take him into protective custody, which he resisted. Officers shocked him with a Taser, and Degraw died soon after. Degraw was a Gulf War veteran and reportedly was being treated for   stress disorder.” ”September 7: Francis Perry, 32, was  after officers attempted to arrest him on a fugitive warrant, authorities said. When officers stopped Perry’s car and approached it, Perry refused to show his hands or speak to them, authorities claim. He then started shooting at them, and officers returned fire, killing Perry, according to authorities.” ’September 7: Jesse Joynt, 35, was  after attempting an armed bank robbery before fleeing the scene, the police say. Following a ”confrontation” near the bank, officers fatally shot Joynt, according to authorities.’ ’September 7: Robert Brown, 55, was fatally shot  when officers responded to a report about a ”suspicious person.” Brown reportedly stabbed an officer with an unknown object before being shot; the officer survived and is being treated for his injuries.’ ’September 7: Sadiq Idris, 25, was  after reportedly stealing a handgun from a gun shop. Idris fled on bicycle before pointing a gun at the officer who caught up to him; the officer then shot and killed Idris, according to authorities.’ ’September 8: Jose Torres, 38, was  when he started shooting at officers responding to a   call, according to the police. One officer was seriously injured.’ ’September 8: Ricardo Tenorio, a    suspect in a gun homicide, was fatally shot . Authorities say he attempted to run over officers who tried arresting him then fled to a motel, which he left while firing at the police. Officers returned fire, killing Tenorio.’ ”September 9: Gregory Frazier, 56, was . According to the police, they responded to a domestic disturbance call at Frazier’s home, and when they arrived Frazier was armed with a knife and confronted deputies, who then shot and killed him. Witnesses contest this account, saying the domestic disturbance had ended and Frazier was eating in his backyard when authorities arrived. According to these witnesses’ account, Frazier was shot and killed when he refused to obey the police’s orders.” ’September 9: Travis Ell, 64, was . Ell was reportedly destroying windows and lightbulbs. When an officer responded to the disturbance, Ell threatened the officer and was ”carrying some objects that could be used as a weapon,” according to authorities, though they were not able to identify what those objects were. The officer then fired three rounds, killing Ell.’ ’September 10: Adrian Shaffer, 37, was  after opening fire on a deputy, according to authorities. Shaffer was seriously injured from the confrontation and died in the hospital a week later.’ ”September 10: Dennis Stanley was  after reaching into his waistband to pull something out, according to authorities. That object was a replica firearm. Stanley’s age is unknown.” ’September 11: Terrence Sterling, 31, was fatally  after he attempted to flee on motorcycle from a police stop and then crashed into a police car, authorities say.’ ’September 12: Eugene Craig, 86, was . Officers say they went to Craig’’s residence to perform a ”welfare check” and found Craig armed with a gun. Authorities say Craig was shot after he ignored orders to drop the gun and instead began raising it.’ ’September 12: Markell Bivins, 25, was fatally shot  after he stabbed his   injuring her, according to authorities.’ ’September 12: An unknown man was  after a police pursuit of a stolen car.’ ”September 13: Timothy McMillan, 38,  in California. McMillan, who was believed to be homeless, was accused of assaulting an officer and stealing her car. Later on, he began screaming at employees in a McDonald’s. Responding officers reportedly used force while trying to restrain McMillan when he lunged at them; he became unresponsive upon being restrained and died soon after, according to authorities.” ’September 14: Tyre King, 13, was  in Ohio. The police had received reports of an armed robbery and believed King and two of his friends matched the description of the suspects. King then tried to run from the officers and was shot and killed when he pulled what turned out to be a BB gun from his waistband, authorities claim.’ ’September 15: Joseph Schlosser, 69, was . Schlosser, a military veteran, was reported to have been suicidal and in possession of multiple weapons. Authorities say officers attempted to take Schlosser into custody using nonlethal means before eventually shooting and killing him.’ ’September 15: Morgan Crocker, 34, was . Someone called 911 and said a person was looking into car windows in the lot. The police spotted and chased Crocker as he tried to run away. First, officers tased Crocker, who then began shooting at them. The police then returned fire, killing Crocker, authorities say.’ ’September 15: Robert Carrillo, a      suspect, was  after he pointed a gun at police officers as he tried to flee, according to the police.’ ’September 16: Jesse Beshaw, 29, was fatally shot by the police in Vermont. Beshaw, who authorities say was wanted on burglary charge and was unarmed, moved toward the officers with one hand behind his back and was  by a deputy, killing him.’ ”September 16: Lucas Anderson, 29, was fatally . According to the police, Anderson was found holding a knife to a woman’s neck. After ignoring commands to drop the knife and advancing toward officers with the knife, Anderson was fatally shot, authorities say.” ’September 16: Nicholas Glenn, 25, was  in Pennsylvania after Glenn had killed one woman and injured several others in a shooting spree, according to the police. Authorities say he had a note in which he expressed his hatred of law enforcement. He began the spree by shooting at a police officer 18 times and then firing approximately 51 rounds at different locations, according to the police.’ ”September 16: Terence Crutcher, 40, was . Crutcher’s car had reportedly stalled on the side of the road, and the police received 911 reports of an abandoned car. Video footage of the incident shows Crutcher walking away from officers with his hands in the air. He is then shown walking from behind his car to the driver’s window, at which point he is Tased and fatally shot by the police. Authorities say Crutcher approached the officers, refused to show his hands, and reached into his car before being shot.” ”September 16: Thomas Mone III, 46, was fatally  after exchanging gunfire with police officers who had come to Mone’s residence looking for a car involved with another police pursuit, the police say” ’September 17: Dahir Adan, 22, was fatally  after Adan stabbed nine people while dressed as a security guard. Witnesses say he mentioned Allah and reportedly asked one person whether the person was Muslim. The FBI is investigating any potential links Adan may have had to extremism after ISIS claimed responsibility for the attack.’ ’September 17: Robert Young, 45, was fatally  when he ran out of a gas station while pointing guns at officers, authorities say. They realized the guns were replicas after shooting Young.’ ’September 17: Robert Duh, 42, was fatally  after allegedly threatening Burger King customers with a hatchet and a stick. Authorities say he ignored commands to drop his weapons.’ ”September 17: Tawon Boyd, 21,  in Maryland. Boyd reportedly called 911 for medical help and died three days later. When officers first arrived after Boyd’s call, they found him acting erratically, according to a police report. Boyd’s girlfriend was there when the police arrived and reported that officers sat on Boyd to restrain him and punched him in the face twice during their struggle.” ’September 17: William Ryan, 55, was fatally  during an exchange of gunfire outside a house. Ryan was reportedly armed and suicidal, police say.’ ’September 18: Philip Hasan, 61, was fatally  after he pulled an assault rifle from his car and ignored commands by officers to stop, authorities say.’ ’September 19: Jeremy Swenson, 30, was fatally  when he made ”threatening actions” toward another person. Swenson was armed and suicidal, according to the police, and a deputy shot him when Swenson refused to drop his weapon.’ ’September 19: Michelle Miller, 46, was fatally . Police officers responded to a request to check on Miller because she was reportedly threatening family members and law enforcement. When Miller arrived at her home and saw officers waiting for her, she pulled out a gun and was shot as she pointed her gun at deputies, authorities say. Miller reportedly had a history of   problems.’ ’September 20: Charles Dove, 35, allegedly robbed a gas station and was later  during a confrontation with officers who responded to the disturbance, authorities say.’ ’September 20: Joshua Scott, 22, was  after a   armed standoff with police officers who were trying to have him committed for     treatment. Scott was shot and killed when he pointed his gun at SWAT officers, the police say.’ ”September 20: Keith Scott, 43, was fatally . Officers were looking for a different man when, authorities say, they saw Scott get out of his car with a gun. Scott went back to his car and then got out again, which is when an officer shot and killed him, according to authorities. Scott’s family say Scott was unarmed and reading in his car when he was killed.” ’September 20: Michael Goodale, 23, was fatally  while being taken into custody for an outstanding warrant, according to authorities. Goodale pointed a gun at the officer, who opened fire, causing Goodale to fall from a   parking garage, authorities say.’ ”September 20: Sandy Duke, 43, was fatally  after he was accused of breaking into someone’s home, tying a person up, and stealing a gun and a car. When officers caught up to Duke, he allegedly turned toward them with a pistol in his hand, which is when he was shot, according to authorities.” ’September 20: Thomas Tucker Jr. 49, and several others were committing a burglary at a home in Colorado, according to the police. The man allegedly assaulted the owner of the home and pointed a gun at him. He was later  when he took out a weapon while fleeing, according to authorities.’ ’September 21: Austin Baier, 23, was unarmed and  following a ”confrontation” with law enforcement when he was pulled over for reckless driving, authorities say.’ ’September 23: Christopher Contreras, 30, was . According to the police, Contreras assaulted and threatened his girlfriend then fled to another home where he threatened someone inside with a gun. The police say an officer shot Contreras when he left the house and refused to drop the gun.’ ’September 23: Jesse Attaway, 41, was . The Sacramento County sheriff’’s department said Attaway broke into two homes and was shot by the police when they located him and he ”quickly pointed an object towards the deputies and rushed towards them.” Investigators say they did not find any evidence of a weapon at the scene.’ ”September 23: Oddis Bernard Colvin Jr. a    suspect in a bank robbery, was  after fleeing a bank in Maryland, according to authorities.  that Baltimore County sheriff’s deputies claimed Colvin drove a car toward deputies, and an officer then shot him through the windshield.” ’September 25: Cody Lafont, 25, was fatally shot by  in New Hampshire after a ”confrontation” following a 911 call asking for assistance, according to state police. Lafont’’s mother  and had called 911 for help before.’ ’September 26: Anthony Bauer, 52, was fatally  after he pointed a gun at them, the police say. Authorities say police officers fired at Bauer, who was driving a stolen Dodge Durango at the time. Bauer drove into the police building upon being fired at.’ ”September 26: Nathan DeSai, 46, was fatally  after he went on a shooting spree that left nine injured. Authorities say they are unsure about DeSai’s motive but found Nazi symbols on his clothing.” ’September 26: Leeland White, 32, was  in a house in Arkansas. Authorities say White was behaving ”erratically” and refused to drop his weapon before being killed.’ ’September 26: An unknown man of unknown age was  after a 911 caller said the man was suicidal and armed. According to authorities, they found the man armed near his apartment and shot him.’