’  ’ ”   It didn’t start out personal. ” ’   When Victor Echevarria started  in July 2015, he wanted   to help Americans who are overbilled for their medical care. ’ ’   His cofounder had gone to bus stops and talked to people about   their health and what was stressing them out. The answer was   always about how much it costs, and Echevarria thought Remedy   could help keep people from paying too much for their healthcare. ’ ’   A few weeks later, his    son had a seizure. ’ ’   ”It’’s not an uncommon thing, we found out, but as a new parent,   you’’re terrified when your kid is sitting there unresponsive,”   Echevarria told Business Insider. ’ ”   An ambulance trip and hospital stay later, his son turned out   fine, but the bills started piling up  —   more than $12, 000 for his   son’s care and his wife’s prenatal appointments, all due at the   same time. ” ’   ”I don’’t care who you are, that’’s an amount of money that puts   you in severe financial peril,” Echevarria said. ’ ’   The founder became one of the biggest tests for his startup  —   and   also proof that it works. ’ ’   ”Remedy looked at them and got them all dismissed. They became   $0,” Echevarria said. ”This moved from a world where I was   interested because of the efficiencies I could bring to the   company to the world where I now have a vendetta against the   broken hospital system.” ’ ”   Anyone who has received medical bills has seen the jumble of   codes and the balance due. Most people just end up paying the   amount on the bill and don’t understand what they’re even being   charged for. ” ’   Remedy, which has been in beta testing since May and is launching   to the public on Thursday, aims to help customers make sense of   this stuff. ’ ”   A user connects their online insurance account to Remedy’s system   and authorizes the company to retrieve their medical records.   Once granted permission, Remedy’s team of     specialists begin scouring insurance claims from up to one year   ago and verify that the patient is being charged for the correct   thing. ” ’   ”Rather than go after really high bills  —   where, let’’s face it,   you can go to a personal injury lawyer with a $1, 000, 000 bill and   they will help you  —   we felt it better to build a hybrid platform   that looks at everything,” Echevarria said. ”Now we plug into   your insurance company, not unlike what Mint does with your bank   accounts. You give us your credentials, and we monitor for   claims.” ’ ’  ’ ”   When Remedy detects a new claim on your account, one of its   contracted specialists will go to your healthcare provider and   pull the documentation to make sure it’s correct. ” ’   In one case, Remedy found that a man had been charged for a   pregnancy test. ’ ’  ’ ’   If Remedy finds an error, it takes a 20% cut of the money saved  —     but not more than $99 per bill. So if the company reduces a   medical bill from $3, 000 to $500 owed, the service fee is $99. If   it knocks a bill down from $500 to $400, then it only takes 20%   from the $100 saved. ’ ”   Beyond finding mistakes in the medical bills, Remedy also   evaluates a person’s insurance plan and can tell them if they’re   overpaying for prescriptions (a   might not be the cheapest   option) or if they’re leaving money on the table by not having a   Health Savings Account. ” ”   The point of the company is to help people avoid burdensome   financial bills and make sure they’re paying only what’s owed,   Echevarria says. If everything checks out, customers don’t have   to pay a dime to use the service. ” ”   While it has raised $1. 9 million in seed funding from investors,   Echevarria is adamant that this isn’t another Silicon Valley   company and wants to make sure his company is reaching the people   who need it most, whether it’s through   advertising or   radio ads. The venture funding it raised will be put toward   helping the company reach those people. ” ’   ”We’’re not in this business to help the incredibly       upper class save a little bit of time and   money,” Echevarria said. ”We’’re in this business to help the 23   million families that make less than $80, 000 a year save   meaningful, real amounts of money to them.” ’