’  ’ ’   A senior Obama administration official stumbled Thursday when   pressed on the US plan to deal with the crisis in Syria,   appearing unable to provide details about what comes next   . ’ ’   Sen. Bob Corker, a Republican from Tennessee and the chair of the   Senate Foreign Relations Committee, repeatedly pressed Deputy   Secretary of State Antony Blinken during a   committee hearing. ’ ’   The US has been searching for a way to help resolve a     civil war between the regime of Syrian President Bashar     and rebel groups that has caused the deaths of hundreds of   thousands of civilians and led to the proliferation of extremist   groups like ISIS inside the country. But a ceasefire deal   brokered with Russia earlier this month fell apart. ’ ’   ”I’’d like to understand what Plan B is,” Corker said. ”The   mysterious Plan B that has been referred to since February, the   mysterious Plan B that was supposed to be leverage to get Russia   to quit killing innocent people, to get Assad to quit   killing innocent people. Just explain to us the elements of Plan   B.” ’ ’   Blinken seemed unsure of the specifics of the   Plan B. ’ ’   ”In the first instance, Plan B is the consequence of the failure   as a result of Russia’’s actions of Plan A,” he said. ”In that,   what is likely to happen now is if the agreement cannot be   followed through on and Russia reneges totally on its   commitments, which it appears to have done, is this is going, of   course, to be bad for everyone, but it’’s going to be bad first   and foremost. ..” ’ ’   Corker cut him off, asking for more specifics. ’ ’   ”I want to hear about Plan B,” Corker said. ”I understand   all the context here.” ’ ’   Blinken pressed on. ’ ’   ”I think, sir, this is important because Russia has a profound   incentive in trying to make this work,” Blinken said. ”It can’’t   win in Syria. It can only prevent Assad from losing. If this now   gets to the point where the civil war actually accelerates, all   of the outside patrons are going to throw in more and more   weaponry against Russia. Russia will be left propping up Assad in   an   piece of Syria under constant assault. ..” ’ ’   Corker cut in again. ’ ’   ”I understand that,” he said. ”What is Plan B? Give me the   elements of Plan B.” ’ ’   Blinken tried again, but was still vague on details. ’ ’   ”Again, the consequences I think to Russia as well as to the   regime will begin to be felt as a result of Plan A not being   implemented because of Russia’’s actions,” Blinken said. ”Second,   as I indicated, the president has asked all of the agencies to   put forward options, some familiar, some new, that we are very   actively reviewing. When we are able to work through these in the   days ahead, we will have an opportunity to come back and talk   about them in detail.” ’ ”   Corker didn’t seem satisfied. ” ’   ”OK, so let me just say what we already know,” he said. ”There is   no Plan B.” ’ ”   This is a familiar criticism of the Obama administration’s Syria   policy. ” ”   Mutasem Alsyofi of the Syrian Civil Society Declaration   Initiative said in a statement last week that Secretary of State   John Kerry wasn’t able to articulate a coherent plan for   Syria when he met with a Syrian delegation in New York City. ” ’   ”Kerry’’s plan is to do more of the same  —   despite the repeated   failure of US attempts to strike a deal with Russia,” Alsyofi   said. ”Syrians need a clear guarantee that the continued killing   of civilians will be met with action to protect   civilians. We do not need further failed agreements with   Russia.” ’ ’   The US recently worked with Russia to implement a ceasefire   between the Assad regime and rebels in Syria, excluding extremist   groups. But the deal  —   referred to as ”Plan A” during Blinken’’s   testimony  —   fell apart before it was seen through to completion. ’ ’   The Wall Street Journal  for Syria earlier   this year, citing unnamed US officials who described a covert   operation to provide moderate rebels with more powerful weapons.   Blinken did not mention such a program during his testimony. ’ ’ ’