One of the 20 or so courses served to me the first time I ate at the new Aska in Brooklyn was a cluster of nasturtium leaves, next to a bundle of burned herb sprigs and flower stalks, tied up with a string. It looked pretty and pagan at the same time, like a page from a Martha Stewart lifestyle magazine for witches. This plate was more than just photogenic, though. Wrapped inside the scorched bouquet was a langoustine, very gently cooked to a soft pink. It tasted of herbs and ashes. There were blots of chamomile jelly and a   sauce on the plate, too, and when I rubbed a bit of the   lobster around in there, the combination of flower and shellfish flavors was a complete surprise, extraordinary in ways I’d never imagined before. One of the rewards of working as a restaurant critic for a few years is getting to see chefs growing into their ambitions. On my watch, few have done this as dramatically and successfully as Aska’s chef, Fredrik Berselius. Aska, which opened beneath the ribs of the Williamsburg Bridge in July, is his third restaurant. And with each fresh incarnation, his cooking has taken a leap forward. His first, in 2012, was a   operation called Frej, which shared its space in Williamsburg with a ramen outfit and a coffee bar. Its   menu was a great deal at $45, and Mr. Berselius, who was born and raised in Sweden, was already showing a gift for delicately naturalistic compositions in the New Nordic style. But some of the flavors were tentative, like underexposed photographs. Mr. Berselius fleshed out some of those sketches when he turned Frej into a   restaurant, called Aska. The menus were longer and a little more expensive. Some dishes were too subdued and others were just   I may still have a bit of a  ’  cracker stuck between my teeth. The pleasures, however, were numerous and original enough to persuade me that Aska was easily a   restaurant. Less than two years in, though, Mr. Berselius closed Aska, saying that he had outgrown the site. New York’s real estate and construction industries being what they are, it took him more than two years to find and then renovate the new space, a warehouse from the Civil War era about a mile south. He installed a bar and lounge in the basement, a patio in the courtyard and a moody main dining area and open kitchen in the soaring,   room at street level. Mr. Berselius must have used some of that time to bear down in the kitchen, too, because his new tasting menus vault past the ones at the old Aska. They are longer, and much more expensive, at $145 for 10 courses and $215 for 19 courses, service included. But the flavors don’t hide anymore they have an insistent presence, and their dynamics are beautifully modulated from one dish to the next. You will still be eating things you probably didn’t think you wanted to eat. A new pig’s blood creation has replaced the cracker, and this time it leaves a memory I’m happy to be haunted by. The blood lends a mineral tang to an appealingly tender traditional Swedish pancake set under rose petals, cherries and a   rose hip jelly. It looks, and even tastes, a little like a thin chocolate cake. (Blood imitates chocolate again in a little truffle that shows up at the end of the night.) Reindeer lichen, another ingredient that didn’t entirely win me over last time around, is back. I may never learn to love the way a clump of it feels in my mouth  —   like a cross between kataifi pastry and a hairball  —   but I loved the chanterelles and their broth that surrounded the lichen and the swoosh of cream, cooked down to a caramelized sweetness, that was hiding beneath. Mr. Berselius is the rare chef who thinks like an artist and gets away with it. His Nature Boy act took a turn toward the mystical on a recent night as he delivered a dish to the table he recalled seeing a small flock of sheep in the Catskills, amid hills overrun with bedstraw. He said he wanted to bring the two together, which he accomplished by placing lambs’ hearts under burning bedstraw until the hearts collapse into ashes. These ashes are then scattered over sunchoke cream mixed with pickled sunchokes. The pairing of bitter cinders and sweet sunchokes was fascinating, and reminded me of baking chocolate grated over melted white chocolate. But one or two tastes were enough for me incinerated heart may be better expressed as a   or   snack, like the   puff of pommes soufflées, topped with wonderfully smoky flounder roe. Part of the program at Aska asks us to look again at nature, and to try ingredients that aren’t sold in any supermarket. Mr. Berselius does impressive things with more ordinary materials, though, like the slabs of scallop and their   roe with   brown butter spooned over the top, or a simple and remarkably good stick of roasted king crab leg with tiny potatoes, cooked almost al dente. The procession of plants and seafood is usually broken up by some red meat right before dessert. Once, it was   beef bathed in rendered beef fat, tasting the way the air at Peter Luger smells: hypnotic. More recently, there were a few   slices of wild wood pigeon, brought in from Scotland a very fine thing on a chilly, windy fall night. After that came an amazing sorbet of raw milk served with little strawberries preserved during the summer, along with some fermented juice on its way to becoming wine. This was followed by birch ice cream under white slices of raw pine mushrooms and woodruff leaves, an odd, herbaceous and unexpectedly stirring combination. In my tour of duty, I’ve eaten a number of dishes that were supposed to represent a walk in the woods, but none came as close to capturing the forest’s aromas as this one. The service is warm and unpretentious, even down to earth. Guidance through the wine list, which has some fashionably esoteric choices alongside some excellent, familiar ones, isn’t quite as fluid as at the old Aska, but the servers know how to listen and respond. Their tone is especially welcoming in the basement lounge, where you can sprawl on a couch or unwind at a small table over a martini that’s been Nordicized with Icelandic birch liqueur and syrup distilled from prehistoric amber. The à la carte menu downstairs offers a fantastic cured pork shoulder in mushroom vinaigrette, or   lettuce leaves dotted with a mash of smoked hake that tastes like unusually good gefilte fish. These and other dishes may not be the makings of a filling weeknight meal, but they do provide a fine,   introduction to the Aska worldview. Mr. Berselius has a lyrical sensibility, though it seems to have abandoned him when it came time to design the main dining room. The tablecloths and the ceiling are black, which makes most of the room disappear. When I was there, most of the tables were taken by couples seated side by side, facing the open kitchen. It looked as if they were at a cabaret, waiting for the show to start. By the third hour of the night, I was restless and conscious of the passage of time I kept expecting the cooks to do something, maybe sing a little Sondheim. The atmosphere at a lot of   restaurants can feel a little inert. This tends not to matter very much to most customers, few of whom are going to put a $215   menu into their regular rotation. What they want is a delicious, memorable night that takes them to places they haven’t been before. Aska does all of that, and throws in a little blood and poetry.