’  ’ ”   There’s a really weird trend happening at Donald Trump’s rallies. ” ’   The Republican nominee keeps asking supporters at his events a   question  —   and the crowd reacts the same way each time. ’ ”   At his past three events  —   two on Wednesday and one Thursday  —     Trump has asked attendees if anyone has ever smashed their   phone with a hammer. It’s a reference to revelations from an   FBI report that Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton’s staff   . ” ’   Each time Trump asks, a lone respondent in the crowd raises their   hand. ’ ’   During his Wednesday rally in Council Bluffs, Iowa, the real   estate magnate asked if anyone in the crowd had either gone   through 13 phones or destroyed them with a hammer. One hand was   raised. ’ ’’ ’   ”One hand,” Trump responded. ”What business are you in? What’s   your business? I think he was just a wise guy. But she destroyed   a number of them with a hammer. How many people have destroyed an   iPhone or a phone with a hammer? Anybody in the room? Ahh, a   couple of hands go up. I don’t know if they’re kidding. I think   they’re kidding, but who knows.” ’ ’   Then, during a rally in Waukesha, Wisconsin, later that night,   Trump asked again. And the same thing happened. ’ ’   ”Does anybody in this room over the last how ever many years have   13 phones?” he posed to the crowd. ”Okay, a number of them were   hammered to death. Right? They were hammered. So let me ask you,   has anybody, when you get rid of your phone, hammered it? Raise   your hand.” ’ ’   ”One,” Trump pointed out. ”Oh there’’s one guy. What business are   you in? What business? Get him out of here. I don’’t want to be   near him.” ’ ’   Trump said that last bit in jest, but asked the question again at   his Thursday rally in Bedford, New Hampshire. And it happened   again. ’ ’   ”Thirteen phones missing, several destroyed with a hammer,” he   said. ”Who in this room has destroyed their phone with a hammer?   Anybody?” ’ ’   ”Oh there’’s one person,” he continued. ”What business is that   person in? I want to find out.” ’ ’   Trump has fostered an interactive atmosphere at events throughout   his campaign. He often excites his large crowds with   questions about who will pay for his proposed wall, for instance.   When he was selecting a vice presidential running mate,   Trump even went as far as to read the crowd his short   list and ask who he should pick. ’