’  ’ ’   Tech giants like Intel and Apple have  to end their dependence   on ”conflict minerals” (tungsten, tin, tantalum, and gold)   from mines controlled by the warlords of the Congo, where the   workers are often prisoners. ’ ’   Unfortunately, the mines in the region that produce   another important mineral, cobalt, have not fared so well. ’ ’   Cobalt is a mineral used in the lithium batteries that power   everything from smartphones to electric cars. ’ ’   A major investigative report by the  reveals the abject conditions of workers in these   mines. ’ ’   This is especially so for the   ”artisanal miners,”   who are not direct employees of any company but make their   living by jumping down nearby holes, often barefoot with no   safety gear, and manually digging out cobalt. Injuries and death   are common. Sometimes the workers are children. ’ ’   Once the cobalt is dug up, it is washed in the river. This   process can contaminate the water and cause birth defects   and other health issues. ’ ”   A good day’s dig will earn these miner’s the equivalent of $ $3,   the Post reports.  ” ’   While these people are not exactly in the same category as   slave labor, they are trapped by the poverty of their   situation. Although the Congo is rich with some of the most   important minerals in the tech industry, the people of the region   are not the main financial beneficiaries of the bounty. ’ ’   Many tech companies are aware of the cobalt mining conditions in   the Congo, but the level of interest in doing inspections   and improving conditions from these tech companies varies. ’ ’  ’ ”   Apple’s Paula Pyers, a senior director at Apple in charge of     social responsibility, told the Post that Apple is   committed to working with its main supplier, Huayou Cobalt, to   clean up the conditions, as well as work on the underlying   issues of poverty. ” ”   Other companies appear less enthused to get involved. A   consultant that works on the issue, Lara Smith of     Core Consultants, told the Post that cobalt   mining is still an issue of don’t  ’t see for many tech   firms. ” ’   “Companies can’t claim ignorance,” Smith said. “Because if they   wanted to understand, they could understand.” ’ ”   This is isn’t the only material nor the only region   where horrible conditions exist in mining, farming,   or harvesting other base materials.  ” ”   But it’s not all dire news. Now, parts of the tech industry are   creating technology to help solve the overarching issue of   forced labor everywhere. ” ’  ’ ’   ”There are at least 34 categories that Amnesty International has   identified as having a risk of forced labor,” SAP Ariba’’s   CEO Alexander Atzberger, told Business Insider. ’ ’   Ariba is an ecommerce purchasing cloud service used by corporate   buyers. It taps into forced labor records by a startup that   offers a database of such information, called  ’ ’   Such efforts are attempting to help purchasers understand if   the products they are buying  —   from batteries to boardroom   furniture  ’ ’   If they suspect an issue, Ariba hopes to ”empower people” with   the ability to insist suppliers submit audits of the   working conditions across their whole supply chain, right down to   the miners,  ’ ’   The hope is that all companies everywhere can be   part of the solution, not just part of the problem. ’ ’    ’