’  ’ ’   A college dropout is prepping his own hedge fund. ’ ’   Julian Marchese, 20, left New York University last year to focus   on his business, Marchese Investments. ’ ’   ”NYU is extremely expensive,” Marchese told Business Insider. ”I   felt that the next three years that I would have spent at school   I could have spent on building [investment] strategies.” ’ ’   Becoming an entrepreneur fulfills a lifelong dream, he added. ’ ’   ”I like making my own hours,” he said. ”I can work as hard as I   want to. There’’s no office I have to go to.” ’ ”   For now, that’s truly the case. He has been working from his   family’s home in suburban Toronto before he moves back to   Manhattan early next year, where he rents a shared office space   on Wall Street, he said. ” ’   A handful of industry vets have helped him set up his operations,   and he plans to eventually hire some programmers and even an   intern. ’ ’   Marchese said he manages about $1 million since launching last   October, and expects another $3 million or so to come in over the   coming months. ’ ”   Hedge funds don’t have to disclose much information, particularly   tiny ones, so Business Insider hasn’t been able to verify   the amounts independently. But we heard about Marchese going out   on his own from a person in the industry. ” ”   Marchese declined to identify the investors, but said they   weren’t his family members. ” ’   ”I don’’t come from much money,” he added. ”Most of it went to   NYU.” ’ ’   Rather, investors got to know him as he gained publicity as an   investing whiz kid. He says one investor expressed interest after   Business Insider profiled him during his freshman year, when he   was . ’ ’  ’ ’   ”When I was younger, it was all about me building my name and my   brand,” said Marchese, who has had numerous articles written   about him over the years. ”Now that I’’m running a business, it’’s   about me being a professional.” ’ ’   Marchese invests using quantitative strategies  —   which use   computer programs  —   to trade stocks and exchange traded funds. He   has returned about 14% net of fees since launching last October,   according to a performance record he provided. ’ ”   It’s far from common for investors to launch funds in their 20s,   let alone without a college degree  —   though a recent exception is   . ” ”   Technically, Marchese’s firm is not ; he’s   starting out managing investors’ money in separate accounts. But   he said he plans on launching a commingled hedge fund in the   coming months. ” ’   So why start off on his own rather than head to one of the   established funds to work on his craft? ’ ’   ”I believe I have an investment philosophy that adds value on its   own,” he said. ”I don’’t want to share that intellectual property   with anyone because I think it’’s best serviced to my investors.” ’