’  ’ ’   When Microsoft bought Mojang, the makers of the insanely popular   Minecraft, in a surprise $2. 5 billion deal in September   2014, nobody knew what to think.  ’ ’   The game seemed an odd fit for Microsoft, whose biggest   moneymakers are its productivity software and Windows PC   operating system. ’ ’   M ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   What people tend to miss is that the Mojang acquisition wasn’t   about bolstering Xbox, or Windows, or any other line of   Microsoft’s business, Booty told Business Insider. ” ’  ’ ’   Rather, in the same way that Mattel (founded 1945) and Lego   (founded 1949) have been giving kids and adult enthusiasts alike   an outlet for their creativity for the better part of a century,   Microsoft is laying the groundwork that can make Minecraft a     brand for the   world. ’ ’   ”There’’s no reason Minecraft couldn’’t be one of those brands,”   Booty says. ”Decisions that are being made have the potential to   affect things five to 10 years down the road.” ’ ’   When Booty, formerly CEO of Midway Games and an Xbox exec, took   the job as Microsoft’’s head of all things Minecraft  —   Booty   refers to it as taking ”stewardship”  —   it came with a   mandate from Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella and Xbox boss Phil   Spencer: Go in and learn as much from Mojang as possible.  ’ ’   ”We probably have a lot more to learn from Mojang than vice   versa,” Booty says. ’ ”   Since Minecraft’s  Mojang has made it a point to have   versions for PCs, Macs, iPhone, Android, virtual reality, and   other platforms. As Microsoft makes its own moves toward making   sure that services like  Mojang can offer some inspiration. ” ’  ’ ’   Looking further into the future, Microsoft is making a big bet   that the  is moving past the mouse and   keyboard, and into an era where you control things with a   combination of voice and hand gestures. ’ ”   Minecraft, with its simple and    controls for   building in three dimensions, is uniquely well suited as a bridge   to that future. Check out this demo video of Minecraft running on   Microsoft’s HoloLens holographic goggles from 2015 for proof: ” ’ ’ ’   In the    future, Minecraft could be the vanguard of   the next generation of Microsoft Office and tools like it,   helping people get things done in virtual reality,     augmented reality, and beyond. The interface may change, but the   way the game works is a steady constant. ’ ”   That’s good for Minecraft, and it’s good for Microsoft. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Since the first version of the game, players have put Minecraft’s   famously simple controls to build  building   replicas of   landmarks and even incredible   projects like a working Nintendo Game Boy. ” ’   And the company remains committed to ”,”   the modifications that allow players to customize the game with   everything from  ’ ’  ’ ”   Mojang provides the base creation tools, the basic gameplay   mechanics, and the online play that makes it all hum. But much   like Lego, what people do with those tools is up to them. It’s   that openness that will help Minecraft stand the test of time,   says  ” ’   Those things parlay into a   investment for Microsoft:   A  the   same way that Microsoft Word is the standard for writing term   papers and reports.  ’ ’   ”A lot of young people growing up, [Minecraft is] how kids will   represent how the world is to them,” Booty says. ’ ”   We’re already seeing some of this potential for advanced, nongame   usage, too. It turns out . ” ’   Minecraft is a video game, first and foremost. But like Lego and   Mattel before it, Mojang has turned Minecraft into a massive,     brand. In fact, Lego and Mattel themselves are making   Minecraft toys; Target and other department stores sell Minecraft   apparel; Warner Bros. is releasing a .  ’ ’   Maintaining that brand can be tricky, Booty says  —     despite Minecraft’’s reputation as a kid’’s game, he says that   Mojang’’s current research shows the average Minecraft player is   actually closer to 29 or 30 years old.   Furthermore, Mårtensson says that players tend to be 55%   male to 45% female, which is far better than most video games,   and something that they’’re ”really proud of.” ’ ’  ’ ’   And so, Microsoft and Mojang have to tread very carefully with   how they position Minecraft, in order to keep enthusiasm at a   nice, steady level, even as players grow up. It can’’t be   positioned as a ”boy’’s game” or a ”girl’’s game.” If they say   Minceraft is for kids, they alienate the older players. If they   say it’’s for adults, kids will lose interest. ’ ”   Still, kids are Minecraft’s most vocal and outspoken fans, and   Mojang takes special pride in the fact that it’s the game that   parents play with their kids. In a more practical sense, those     kids are ideally going to grow up to be     adults. ” ’   But it also raises the stakes. If Mojang drops the ball and does   anything to alienate those players, or their parents, it would be   betraying their roles as stewards of the game, Booty says. ’ ”   For starters, that means that Mojang has cracked down on   advertising in the game; in a   sense, it’s meant that   Microsoft has walked away from . You can’t sell a shoddy product when your whole   brand is about building cool stuff. ” ’   ”[Craft] is right in the name,” Booty jokes. ’ ’   The next big goal, Mårtensson says, the goal is for ”all   players on all platforms able to play with each other.”  ’ ’   Right now, players on the iPhone, Android, Samsung Gear VR, and   Windows 10 versions of Minecraft can all play with each other on   local wireless with no extra configuration required. A paid   subscription service, called ”,” takes   it a step further by letting those players set up an online world   they can cohabitate from miles apart. ’ ’   A big step toward that goal has been bringing all the major   versions of Minecraft, across PC, phones, and consoles, all   closer together in terms of features. A    coming later in October adds basic support for mods, plus other   goodies from the PC version. ’ ’  ’ ’   So does that mean that one day, there will only be one core,   unified version of Minecraft for all devices, with all   distinctions knocked away, and everybody able to play with each   other? ’ ’   ”Maybe,” Mårtensson says after a pause. ’ ’   And despite what Booty jokingly refers to as some disagreement on   ”schedules and timetables”   the two studios are   in lockstep. ’ ’   There are no plans to diminish what made Minecraft so great in   the first place, and every intention of keeping it great for all   players, on all devices, no matter how they like to play.  ’ ’   ”There shouldn’’t be any more worries,” Mårtensson says is   his message to Minecraft players. ’ ”   As Microsoft contemplates the future of its own business, that’s   also the hope.  ”