’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Shep Murray had one particularly bad day at work in 1998. ’ ’   During his annual performance review at the New York     marketing and communications company where the    worked   at the time, he  ’ ’   Instead, he quit. ’ ’   Later that day, he called his younger brother Ian, who was   working in Manhattan at a small public relations firm. ’ ”   Shep told his brother  —   who he knew was also unhappy at work  —     that he’d quit his job, and dared him to do the same. ” ”   Ian, then 23, called his brother back about five minutes later to   report that he’d followed suit. ” ”   Though the brothers were both out of work, they weren’t quite   falling without parachutes. They had a business idea in their   back pockets  —   and now they’d finally have time to pursue it. ” ’   During a 1997 trip to Anguilla, where their parents, who were   travel journalists, were on assignment, Shep and Ian had started   talking about  ’ ” ended up telling the resort’s general manager about   their idea. ” ’   ”We didn’’t know how to do it,” Shep said. ”The hotel manager   literally pulled out the New York City yellow pages. We started   calling neck tie manufacturers. That’’s how it all started.” ’ ’   But when they got back to New York, they briefly put the idea on   hold. ’ ’   That was, until they quit their jobs the following year. ’ ’  ’ ’   Once they were able to start pursuing this dream in earnest, it   was time to break the news to friends and family. ’ ’   ”Everyone thought we were crazy for leaving our respectable jobs   to go try something new,” Shep says. ”My girlfriend, who is now   my wife, was not happy.” ’ ’   When they first started their company  —   which would eventually   become Vineyard Vines, the preppy clothing brand that’’s now worth   close to $1 billion,   —   the brothers didn’’t receive ”any money   from anybody,” says Shep. ’ ’   But they had a plan and they hit the ground running. ’ ’   They bought an old Jeep and a Ford Bronco with their last couple   of paychecks and applied for as many credit cards as possible   while they still had credit. Cash advances from the new credit   cards helped to fund Vineyard Vines in the beginning. They used   contacts at their old firms to make connections in the fashion   and design world. Soon, they accrued an inventory of ties. ’ ’   ”Nobody was really wearing ties at the time, unless they were   going to a wedding or a graduation,” Ian says. ”We thought,   people aren’’t wearing ties because they’’re boring. But we used   that to our advantage.” ’ ’   To make neckties more appealing to more people  —   especially   young, preppy New Englanders  —   their idea was to create a product   line with whimsical and colorful patterns that ”could spark   conversations.” ’ ’  ’ ”   To build up their brand, the Murray brothers took an outdoorsy   approach to finding customers who would appreciate their   preppy,   ties. They would couch surf up and down   the eastern seaboard, carrying backpacks brimming with   merchandise. They’d bike and boat around beaches, hoping to find   interested customers. ” ’   ”We would sell a tie to anyone who would listen to us  —   and to   people who wouldn’’t,” Ian says. ’ ’   They also hawked ties at Junior League fairs, holiday boutiques,   bazaars, and church fairs. ’ ’   While they did encounter some interested customers, the brothers   also ran into a lot of naysayers as they embarked on their new   careers. ’ ’   ”People were always asking or thinking, ’’How could you possibly   give up these good jobs to do something seemingly stupid? ’’” says   Shep. Ian adds: ”People constantly talked down to us  —   but we   took it as a challenge.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Almost 20 years after starting their business, the brothers say   they’’ve never regretted quitting their ”stable jobs.” Shep   explains that embarking on their new, entrepreneurial path was   far more liberating than it was scary. ’ ’   ”People want job security and financial security,” Shep says.   ”The idea of passing on something that was perfectly good didn’’t   make sense. The idea of being able to go out and make money doing   something as stupid as making neckties just seemed like a crazy   thing. The reality is, we were really passionate about going out   and making it on our own. We were really passionate about the   products we made. We felt that if we were passionate, other   people would be to.” ’ ’   Ian says that despite the rough patches in the beginning, the   brothers were able to rely on each other for support and found   that their different skill sets often complemented one another.   (Ian majored in English in college and had a background in PR,   while Shep majored in business and had a background in   advertising.) ’ ’   They also had a trick for keeping themselves motivated each day. ’ ’   ”It would be very easy to just sit on the couch and watch ’’The   Price is Right,’’” Ian says. ”So we would make a   list every   morning, and would make sure every day we added ten things to   it.” ’ ’   Writing out their priorities allowed them to stay focused on   their goals, even without the structure of the traditional      workday or office environment. ’ ’  ’ ’   The Murray brothers worked from home in the beginning, and later   began renting larger office spaces in Connecticut, which is where   they grew up. ’ ’   Its proximity to both New York City and  ’ ’   Today, there are 91 Vineyard Vines stores across the country. The   company is on track to hire 650 employees (to boost its     workforce) even as other brands with similar   aesthetics face struggles this year, . ’ ”   Vineyard Vines has also expanded its product line to include   bags, clothing, and swimwear for men, women, and children  —   but   it’s still known for its bright, playful prints. ” ’   ”Our ties spoke to people,” Ian says. ”They said something about   the person before they even opened their mouth. That’’s why so   many people early on identified with our products. Really early   on, we had George H. W. Bush wearing our bonefish ties, because he   loved to go bone fishing, and we had John Kerry wearing our   lacrosse ties, because he loved to play lacrosse.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Looking back on their old careers, the brothers say they ”miss   nothing.” They especially enjoy not having to wear suits anymore,   or commuting to and from New York City every day. ’ ’   When they first made the leap, Shep says they ”felt empowered by   being our own bosses, regardless of what anyone else thought.” ’ ’   He adds that his best advice for aspiring entrepreneurs is to   ”quit your job while you’’re young.” ’ ”   He notes it’s better to focus on pursuing your passion and   gaining varied and interesting career experience than it is to   suffer through a job that pays well or looks great on your   résumé. ” ’   ”Quality of life was more important to us than financial gain,”   Ian says. ”That still is what drives us and drives our team. It’’s   extremely rewarding to be around   people.” ’ ’   However, the brothers note that going for your dreams can get   harder as you age. They see many peers in their 30s or 40s who   feel unfilled in their corporate jobs, but are unable to leave   due to financial obligations. ’ ’   ”You don’’t want to go to your grave saying you wish you had tried   something,” Shep says. ”If you don’’t try it, how can you know if   you’’re going to succeed? I think a lot of people measure success   financially. If you do that, it doesn’’t necessarily always lead   to a happier, more productive life. Make sure you do things for   the right reasons.” ’