’  ’ ”   Someday in the future, movies and video games might all be   designed to be viewed in special virtual reality headsets like   the Oculus Rift or the Samsung Gear VR that make us feel like   we’re in the middle of the action.  ” ’   But a former fiction writer and her famous tech husband have come   up with a way to watch any movie today and have a similarly   dazzling experience.  ’ ”   They’ve created a $50 pair of glasses, available now, that takes   any content, like TV, Netflix shows, websites, photos, and   turns them into a 3D effect, making them feel more real,   more immersive. ” ’   The device and company,  came out of stealth last week after about a   year and half of development. ’ ”   It is the brainchild of founder CEO Wendellen Li and her     Valley technologist husband Aza Raskin. Raskin   invented the 3D technology. He previously founded Massive   Health (acquired by Jawbone) Songza (acquired by Aimee Street   and later by Google) and Humanized, bought by Mozilla where he   stayed and helped build the Firefox browser. (Raskin’s dad   also .) ” ’   Raskin isn’’t heavily involved in Li’’s new company, beyond   inventing the tech, he tells us. He left Jawbone about a year ago   to fire up a new startup called ”Other” and he’’s not talking   about it yet. ’ ’   But he was the inspiration for Elsewhere, Li tells us. Prior to   meeting Raskin and getting married, Li was an aspiring fiction   writer. ’ ’  ’ ’   After falling in love and taking a bunch of selfies with her   husband, she was dissatisfied. She wanted a better sharing   experience, like being in a novel. ”We wanted to see out of each   other’s eyes,” she says. ’ ’   That got Raskin, a physicist, to thinking about how   to manipulate light and optics to turn any photo into a   3D experience. He came up with an app that takes any video   and puts it on a split screen, one for each eye, and these   glasses. ’ ”   Li handled finding designers, a manufacturer in China and the   project’s other business needs. They bootstrapped the project   themselves. ” ’   You attach the glasses to your phone and either view the   videos on you phone, or turn on the camera to look at an object   in the real world (such as a TV screen) through the camera. ’ ’   Like VR, you can even turn your head to see more of the photo or   video. ’ ’  ’ ’   The two of them use the device to do ”immersive Netflix and   chill” they say. ’ ’   Li still remembers watching ”Game of Thrones” that way. ’ ’   ”That scene when Jon Snow gets trampled  —   it was so intense,” Li   tells us. ’ ’   Business Insider demoed the device and we found the 3D effect to   be fun, but sort of tame. ’ ”   It didn’t make us feel like we had stepped into the movie or   another world like a   virtual reality device. But we   liked that it converted existing videos and movies into 3D,   even ones you film yourself. And that $50 price makes it   affordable enough for a holiday gift. ”