’  ’ ”   Millennials are becoming parents  —   and it’s creating   shockwaves in the retail, restaurant, automotive, and     industries.  ” ’   The   to    generation is notorious for renting   homes instead of buying, spending on experiences over   apparel, and dining at restaurants instead of at home.  ’ ”   But that’s starting to change as more millennials become   parents. More than 60 million millennials  —   about 80% of the   generation  —   will become parents in the next decade, according to   a study by marketing platform Crowdtap. ” ’   Millennials currently spend $170 billion a year and are   projected to spend $200 billion annually starting in 2017 and $10   trillion in their lifetimes, according to a study   by . ’ ”   Millennials are becoming parents  —   they’re just doing it later   than previous generations.   ” ’   This chart using Wells Fargo data shows how the average age of   first marriage and childbirth is rising in the US.  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Millennials have long said in surveys that  as Business   Insider’s Bob Bryan . Even those living in their parents’   basements have  to get their own place. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Traditional   chains are losing market share to      establishments like Panera Bread as millennial   customers search for healthier options.   ’ ’   This shift in consumer mindsets puts Starbucks in a unique   position to take over, according to a  by Goldman Sachs. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Starbucks has been expanding its menu to include more food   options such as sandwiches and salads. It has also added     to many locations.  ’ ’  ’ ”   But McDonald’s,    Wendy’s, and others are trying to   catch up by eliminating preservatives in food and offering more   healthy and organic options.   ” ’   Companies like Target, Walmart, and Kroger are making changes to   appeal to millennial moms, who tend to do most of the shopping   for their households. ’ ’    ’ ’   Walmart and Kroger have been offering wider selections of organic   foods, which are important to the   generation.   Kroger has also been expanding its   products so it   can offer cheaper prices.  ’ ’   Whole Foods is opening a new chain of stores to better appeal to   millennial moms, who crave convenience and     aisles.  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   While previous generations dressed up for work and play,   millennials have a tendency to wear brands like Nike, Under   Armour, and Lululemon everywhere, .  ’ ’   ”There is an underlying sense of rebellion that comes through in   today’s fashion,” Cohen said.  ’ ’   While department and discount stores struggle, business for   athletic retailers . ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’ Hayley Peterson contributed to this story.  ’