’   CNN anchor Jake Tapper clashed with Rudy Giuliani during a Sunday   morning interview, telling the former New York City mayor that he   should not be proud of Donald Trump refusal to publicly release   his tax records. ’ ’   The exchange came just one day after The New York Times  indicating it was possible the   tycoon   legally avoided paying federal income taxes for nearly two   decades. ’ ”   “He’s the first   nominee since 1976 to not release his   tax returns,” Tapper said. “If you’re proud of that, that’s   great. But I don’t think you should be. ” ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tRudy Giuliani says Donald Trump is ”a genius” for not paying taxes   ’ ’   “And I am saying, the way all of you are treating this is a very   good indication of why someone might not want to release their   tax returns, because you take something that is perfectly legal   …       and you try to make it into  —   he did no wrongdoing,” the   former New York City mayor replied. ’ ’   Giuliani added: “Meanwhile, Hillary Clinton has violated probably   30 federal statutes. He did nothing wrong. The headline should   have been, ‘Donald Trump takes advantage of legal provisions in   tax code.’ That’s the story. ” ’ ’   Tapper, not amused, shot back: “That’s an interesting, that’s an   interesting headline. ” ’ ’   The CNN anchor then played Giuliani a clip of Trump suggesting   that Hillary Clinton had not been loyal to her husband. ’ ’   “Mr. Mayor, is that normal, stable behavior for a presidential   nominee to launch an unsubstantiated attack?” Tapper asked. ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’t. questions Rudy Giuliani about Trump’s unfounded claims on Clinton’s marriage   ” ”   Giuliani said it was “fair game” after “she called him a racist   and misogynist, a xenophobic, I don’t know, schizophrenic, and I   don’t know what else she called him at the end of that debate. ” ” ’   “Just to make stuff up, just to say wild accusations, Hillary   Clinton is cheating on Bill, no proof of it whatsoever?   Everything is fair game?” Tapper pressed. ’ ”   “That was a sarcastic remark pointing out that Bill Clinton has,   you know, quite a past, and Hillary Clinton has done quite a job   on attacking the people who were victims of Bill Clinton,”   Giuliani responded. “And not only that. She poses as a feminist,   and she’s taken money from countries that stone women, kill   women. ” ” ’   Tapper then fired a brutal question at the Trump surrogate. ’ ’   “Is the Trump campaign  —   is Donald Trump and the people around   Donald Trump really the ones to be casting aspersions on the   marriages of anyone else?” the CNN host ask. ’ ”   “It isn’t a marriage. It isn’t the marriage,” Giuliani insisted.   “It’s the way she goes on the attack and tries to hurt victims of   sexual predations. ” ” ”   “That wasn’t about her marriage?” Tapper asked. “Him saying that   she’s not loyal to Bill isn’t about her marriage?” ” ”   “I am saying the problem with Hillary Clinton has nothing to do,   as far as I’m concerned, with her marriage,” Giuliani said. “It’s   her protection of Bill Clinton for 20 or 25 years against   allegations of rape, taking advantage of an intern, and going on   the attack and trying to make those women appear to be insane in   some cases. ” ”