’  ’ ’   The recipe and    service Blue Apron has   grown itself into a startup valuated at $2 billion by reinventing   dinner. ’ ”   It’s been so successful,  and  are now chasing the same idea (as well ) and Blue Apron  ” ”   But there’s one set of people who seem to have some complaints   about the company: Workers at one of Blue Apron’s main warehouse   fulfillment centers in Richmond, California, according to an    ” ’   The BuzzFeed report alleges that the fast growth of Blue Apron   led to a    hiring processes and a reliance on   temp workers at its Richmond warehouse facility, resulting   in some pretty rough working conditions. ’ ’   For instance, in the 38 months since Blue Apron opened the   Richmond facility, the Richmond Police responded to two   complaints of weapons, three calls for bomb threats,   and seven calls alleging assault, with at least four arrests made   because of threats of violence, BuzzFeed reports. ’ ’   Employees say the violence has included being punched, choked,   groped, pushed, not to mention the bomb scares. ’ ’   BuzzFeed reports that the scary conditions hit their peak in   August 2015, and by October that year, the general manager of the   facility hired a safety manager for the facility   and advocated slower hiring and the safety record has   improved since then. ’ ”   The company told Business Insider that it does screen all of its     warehouse employees for drugs and criminal   backgrounds, but a different process applies for the temp   workers, and that’s what led to problems in the past. ” ’   Nisha Devarajan, a Blue Apron spokesperson told us (emphasis   ours): ’ ’   Blue Apron employs over 4, 000 people, total, and over 1, 000   at the Richmond facility. All told, it delivers around 8 million   meals a month, . It has raised nearly $194 million   in venture funding, and was valued at $2 billion in   2015. ’ ’   It prides itself on sourcing fresh, seasonal ingredients from   artisan farmers, chopped and packed with all the spices and   condiments needed to cook up an original recipe at   $8 to $10 a serving. ’ ’  ’ ’   It also allows customers to change their orders on a fairly     basis. ’ ’   And that means those employees are doing the slicing, dicing, and   measuring at wages starting at $12 an hour, Buzzfeed   reports (as ) ’ ’   As Blue Apron grows more successful, the stress on the employees   to fill those boxes increased, employees told Buzzfeed.  ’ ’   “It was crazy. You felt like you were running all the time,” one   employee told BuzzFeed. ’ ”   Even in the best of circumstances, this job could be   tough for some people. That’s because to meet     laws, employees are working in warehouses that   are kept at a temperature below 40 degrees. They are   issued a jacket, thermals, a hat, and a neck warmer. ” ’   Devarajan told Business Insider: ’ ’   The California’s Division of Occupational Safety and Health has   been overseeing the facility and has issued some fines for   violations, some of which Blue Apron has contested, appealed, and   had reduced, BuzzFeed reported. ’ ’  ’ ’   Richmond is known for .  ’ ’   Devarajan told us that the company is ”proud” that it   brought so many jobs to the area and that ”Blue Apron has   proactively built a relationship with the Richmond Police   Department and the local community.” ’ ’   She further said:  ’ ’   And she added: ’