’  ’ ”   Colombia’s national vote on a peace deal negotiated  between the   government and the country’s largest rebel group, the   Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC)  on Sunday night, in a result that   defied expectations heading into the day. ” ’   Results  by national electoral   authorities showed that the ”No” vote, rejecting the peace deal,   edged out the ”Yes” vote, 50. 2% to 49. 7%. ’ ’   Some 13 million of the 34. 9 million Colombians eligible cast   their votes, amounting to a participation rate of 37. 39% below   the expected turnout of . ’ ’   Colombians voting abroad appeared to swing heavily against   the deal. With 65% of votes counted, Colombians in the US were   opposed, 61% to 39%  to the Miami Herald. ’ ’   Polls conducted prior to the vote indicated that the ”Yes”   campaign had a solid lead, with some surveys finding it . ’ ’   The campaign in favor of the deal cited an end to the 52 years of   violence as a reason to support a perhaps imperfect deal. ’ ’   Those opposed to the deal campaigned under the slogan, ”Yes to   peace, but not like this.” The ”No” campaign   ’ ’  ’ ”   And while polls prior to the vote indicated support for the deal,   the FARC itself is  by Colombians. The rebel   group’s    war claimed the lives of  and   displaced some 7 million Colombians from their homes. ” ’   Though the deal would apply alternative punishments, like   community service, to many rebels and hold others accountable for   more serious crimes, the prospect of FARC members avoiding jail   time may have . ’ ’   “I voted no. I don’t want to teach my children that everything   can be forgiven,” Alejandro Jaramillo, 35,  saying he was angered that the   rebels would not serve jail time. ’ ’   ”It is absurd to reward those criminals,   and   killers who have made the country a disaster for the past 50   years,”  70, who also voted   against the deal. ”If you reward crime, what moral authority do   you have to tell a thief not to steal your mobile phone?” ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Peace is exciting, but the Havana accords are disappointing,”   said Alvaro Uribe, a former president and the leader of the ”No”   campaign,  to AFP. ’ ”   During the voting Sunday, parts of Colombia’s Caribbean coast,   considered bastions of support for President Juan Manuel   Santos and the deal,  related to Hurricane   Matthew. ” ’   Other parts of the country outside of the cities are remote and   hard to reach, which may have influenced turnout as well. ’ ’   The path forward for Colombia is not clear. A bilateral     has been in effect in the country since August   26, when the two sides reached an agreement in Havana. It is   unclear whether that will continue, or for how long. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   What comes next for FARC rebels, who were slated to begin   demobilizing and disarming after a ”Yes” victory, also remains   uncertain. ’ ’   FARC leaders, watching the results from Cuba,  as the outcome leaned toward   ”No.” As the deal’’s defeat looked likely, the group issued a   somewhat vague statement on Twitter,   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   The  of the voting posted   online by Colombian electoral authorities indicated that much of   the country’’s western, southeastern, eastern, and northern   regions  —   areas where the FARC has been   —   voted in support of the peace plan.   That contrasted with the country’’s center, which leaned toward   ”No.” ’ ’ to RCN Radio, Santos was to meet   with his negotiating team as well as with military leadership to   review the results of the vote. ’ ’   Santos later gave a short  in which he said he accepted the   defeat. ’ ”   The Colombian president reportedly ordered negotiators to return   to Havana on Monday morning to meet with FARC leaders,  to The Washington Post’s Nick   Miroff, who added that the   was to remain in place. ” ’   In a short  issued on Sunday night, the FARC   said it ” ’ ’   The statement : ”To the Colombian people who dream   of peace, count on us. Peace will triumph.” ’