’  ’ ’   Hillary Clinton lambasted Donald Trump during a Monday speech in   Toledo, Ohio, after a  dropped on Saturday revealed   the Manhattan billionaire suffered a $916 million loss in 1995   and could have avoided paying federal income taxes for 18 years. ’ ’   Clinton slammed Trump for ”contributing nothing” to the US, a   country he’’s been ”dissing” throughout his campaign. ’ ’   She said that when it comes to the ultrawealthy taking advantage   of the US government, Trump was ”in a category by himself.” The   former secretary of state also called for a law to be enacted   that would force   presidential nominees to release   their tax returns, something every   nominee has done   since 1976  —   except Trump. ’ ’   ”Now, a lot of us were wondering, ’’What is he hiding? It must be   really terrible,’’” she told the crowd. ”Well, The New York Times   has discovered at least part of the answer.” ’ ’   Trump’’s campaign has neither confirmed nor denied the accuracy of   The Times report on his taxes. Instead, a campaign statement   accused The Times of ”illegally” publishing the returns and   praised Trump for using the tax code to his advantage, a line   that Trump’’s surrogates repeated. Former New York City Mayor Rudy   Giuliani and others insisted that Trump was a ”genius” for taking   advantage of the tax codes. ’ ’’ ’   ”Yesterday his campaign was bragging it makes him a ’’genius,’’”   Clinton said. ”Here’’s my question: What kind of a genius loses $1   billion in a single year?” ’ ’   Clinton said that ”how anyone can lose a dollar, let alone a   billion dollars in the casino industry, is kind of beyond me.” ’ ’   ”It’’s just hard to figure,” she continued. ”But as a result, it   doesn’’t look like he paid a dime for two decades.” ’ ’   The Democratic nominee added that, at the same time, American   families were paying the same taxes Trump was eschewing. ’ ’   ”It seems that he was contributing nothing to our nation,”   Clinton said. ”Nothing for Pell Grants to help kids go to   college, nothing for veterans, nothing for our military, and, you   know, he’’s been dissing America in this whole campaign, right? He   talks us down, he makes disparaging comments about our country,   he calls our military a disaster. Well, it’’s not, but it might   have been if everybody else failed to pay taxes to help our brave   men and women in uniform.” ’ ’   Clinton added that while his employees were suffering from the   decisions that led to a nearly $1 billion loss, Trump was ”busy   with his accountants trying to figure out how he could keep   living like a billionaire.” ’ ’   ”Trump was taking from America with both hands and leaving the   rest of us with the bill,” she said. ’ ’   Clinton later called Trump ”the poster boy” of ”bullying small   businesses. ’ ’   ”I have heard so many stories of contractors, and I’’ve met some,   too, who worked for him, produced the goods and services, and   never got paid,” she said. ”I’’m talking about painters and   plumbers, piano sellers, architects, glass installers  —   he   stiffed them all. Not because he couldn’’t pay them, but because   he wouldn’’t pay them. And he’’d tell them, ’’If you want to get   your money, sue me. ’’” ’ ’   She then promised to close a litany of tax loopholes, including   the ones Trump may have utilized, if she were elected in   November. ’ ’   ”We’’re going to close those loopholes,” she said. ”We’’re going to   make Wall Street and the superrich pay their fair share.” ’