’  ’ ’   Donald Trump has a new defense for the report that he could have   avoided paying federal income taxes for 18 years. ’ ’   At a campaign rally in Arizona on Tuesday, the Republican   presidential candidate blamed his opponent Hillary Clinton for   not enacting stricter tax laws when she was a senator from New   York. ’ ’   ”After years of failure, she complains about how I’’ve used tax   laws of this country to my benefit,” . ”Then I   ask a simple question: Why didn’’t she ever try to change those   laws so I couldn’’t use them? You know why? She could have changed   the laws when she was in the United States Senate, but she   didn’’t.” ’ ’   The  on Saturday, which showed a $916 million loss that   experts said he could have used to avoid paying income taxes for   almost two decades. The businessman has refused to release his   tax returns  —   as every major party candidate has done for decades    —   citing an IRS audit that needs to wrap up before he does so. ’ ’   Clinton  more than a week ago, wondering aloud if Trump   hasn’’t released his tax returns because ”maybe he doesn’’t want   the American people, all of you watching tonight, to know that   he’’s paid nothing in federal taxes.” ’ ’   Trump responded by saying, ”That makes me smart,” in the moment,   but his  as an offhand remark. His   supporters,  insisted   Trump’’s tax acumen made him a ”genius.” ’ ’   ”Yesterday his campaign was bragging it makes him a ’’genius,’’”   . ”Here’’s my   question: What kind of a genius loses $1 billion in a single   year?” ’ ”   And now Trump’s new line of defense is shooting the ball back   into Clinton’s court. ” ’   ”The reason that she did not do that is her donors and   contributors have used those same tax laws as I did  —   the same   way,” Trump said in Arizona on Tuesday, insinuating that   billionaire Clinton supporters Warren Buffett and George Soros   have also taken advantage of tax loopholes and written off huge   losses the same way he did. ’ ’   ”Just take a look at her donors. I know how the tax code works   better than anyone, and I’’m going to fix it so it’’s fair and   just, and works for you,” he added as the crowd erupted in   cheers. ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tTrump in Arizona with a. ..new twist to his tax return defense; Why didn’t Clinton do more as senator to stop people like me?  ”