’  ’ ”   If you’ve ever used a public toilet, you probably wish you held   the urge until you got home. ” ”   They’re unclean, smelly, and often serve as de facto homes for   homeless people. ” ’   Thankfully, the city of Portland, Oregon, has reinvented the   staple facility of urban centers, festivals, and campgrounds. And   the new public toilet only cost $250, 000 to develop. ’ ’   The  isn’’t the   futuristic,   bathroom you might imagine. A     steel shell wraps around a single toilet bowl.   There’’s no sink or running water. Grates at the top and bottom of   the structure allow onlookers to see in; though a ”blind spot”   prevents people from watching users do their business, . ’ ’   So what makes this loo so special? ’ ’   The police, fire department, and maintenance crews in Portland   worked together to engineer a   toilet that could be   easily cleaned and maintained, while also preventing crime. (The   toilet is manufactured by Madden Fabrication.) ’ ’   Public bathrooms   —   places where drug users can   shoot up in privacy and buy or sell merchandise. Their central   location offers convenience for prostitution. ’ ”   The Portland Loo’s slats, while reducing privacy, ensure police   can see in if they suspect illegal activity. Blue lighting makes   it difficult for heroin users to locate their veins and use   inside. Even the paint supposedly repels graffiti. ” ’  ’ ’   Fast Company  that more than a dozen cities have   installed Portland Loo facilities  —   34 facilities in all. They   cost almost $90, 000 each. ’ ’   The city of its birth, Portland, is home to eight of those   bathrooms. The flagship toilet, located in the Old     neighborhood,  eight years after it was installed. ’ ”   A Portland Loo located in Victoria, British Columbia, won the   vote for Canada’s best bathroom in 2012, . The city’s sanitation crew maintains it   throughout the day. ” ’   But not everyone is on board. San Diego removed one of its   Portland Loos after just 13 months. City officials  the restroom became a magnet   for crime. The police saw a 130% increase in calls to the area   around the Portland Loo, according to The  . ’ ’  ’ ’   In   San Francisco  —   a city that has the  in the US  —   city officials   are trying a different approach with . ’ ”   The bathrooms are wheeled out four afternoons a week in the   city’s Tenderloin neighborhood, and are accompanied by an   attendant. Each station costs the city $100, 000 annually, which   is  maintaining its Portland   Loo. ” ’   Is the Portland Loo any less smelly than the current public   toilets on city streets? Probably not. ’ ’   But it is an innovative solution to a seemingly universal   problem. ’