’  ’ ’   Shake Shack unleashed a new chicken sandwich on the world on   Thursday. ’ ’   The ”” sandwich is only being served at   Shake Shack’’s Brooklyn, NY locations.  ’ ”   While it’s a limited item, it may just end up staying  —   the   Chick’n Shack sandwich started as a test item at Brooklyn   locations, too.  ” ’   But how does the sandwich taste? ’ ’   The  was one of the best new menu items of 2015, and is   still a massively impressive chicken sandwich  —   it may just be my   personal favorite.  ’ ”   The new Salt & Pepper Honey Chick’n sandwich is a   somewhat simpler variation. The devilishly crispy and tender   chicken still takes center stage, but gone is the shredded   lettuce, the pickle chips, and the herbed mayo.  ” ’   Enveloped within the pillowy potato roll is the hunk of   buttermilk marinaded chicken slathered with salted honey and   black pepper. Slathered may not be the most accurate word  —     perhaps lightly brushed is closer. ’ ’  ’ ”   There’s not a whole lot of the honey, which is a great thing. On   the first bite, it’s a very light and alluring suggestion of   sweetness  —   nothing sickly or cloying. The pepper is subtle, and   it brings a satisfying warmth to the tongue that melds with the   smooth honey flavor.  ” ’   Yet, the sandwich feels unfinished. I was shocked to learn that   it did not have pickles in it  —   what better way to bring clarity   to the satiated warmth of honey and pepper than the bright,   acidic crunch of a pickle chip? Pickles are a time honored   tradition amongst the fray of fried chicken sandwiches, and the   taste works for a reason. Or they could buck tradition and place   some pickled onions on top for a tart, sharp twist.  ’ ’  ’ ”   Or, perhaps a dipping sauce, or an additional sauce in the   sandwich is necessary. As one esteemed BI taster noted,   Shake Shack’s chicken, while tender, isn’t juicy enough to   stand on its own without a saucy buttress or veggie   accoutrements.  ” ”   In the end, however, it still is a decent sandwich. Shake Shack   knows how to fry a chicken breast to a crunchy crisp while   managing to keep it tender, and that’s more than half the battle.   A chicken sandwich by any other name smells as sweet  —   but at   least this one has some honey.  ”