’  ’ ”   Hurricane Matthew is blasting Florida Friday afternoon. The part   of the storm with the fastest winds remains just off the state’s   eastern shore as the storm moves north. ” ’   The National Hurricane Center  that Matthew is a Category 3 storm with maximum   sustained winds of 115 mph, making it somewhat less powerful   than the   Category 4 monster it was Thursday. But it   remains the most powerful storm to strike central or northern   Florida in living memory, and it continues to pose the threat of   severe flooding to much of Florida along with coastal Georgia and   South Carolina through Friday and Saturday. ’ ’   Just after 2 pm Friday, footage began to come in of a major storm   surge in Jacksonville. A video shared on Facebook by user Bradley   Hatcher captures a particularly dramatic angle: ’ ’ ’ ’   As the Washington Post  the first news of severe flooding   arrived before noon on Friday. Twitter posts show dangerous   floodwaters in St. Augustine and Daytona Beach. The St. Augustine   sea wall has ”vanished under the waves.” ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tSt Augustine sea wall has vanished under the waves.   ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’t20 people, including children, stuck in  bed & breakfast. They say they’re getting worried, as the surge is about to come in.  ” ’ ’ ’Severe Storm surge flooding continues in parts of Daytona Beach, FL. Lots of wind damage as well  ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tINCREDIBLE VIDEO: Watch as these waves crash into this Palm Coast house!    ’ ’   ”The video footage is revealing that the water is coming in with   extreme force,” said NHC storm surge specialist Jamie Rohme in a   video released on  ”You   can’’t swim in it. It can throw you up against a wall. The bottom   line is here is: It is   conditions.” ’ ’   He added, ”What’’s more disturbing about all this is how many   people you had in mandatory evacuation zones who are not   leaving,” saying residents up the coast with time to   evacuate should do so now. ’ ’   Hurricane warnings were extended up to Cape Lookout, North   Carolina at 11 am Friday. ’ ’   As Al Jazeera  the scale of destruction in Haiti, which took a   direct hit from Matthew, is devastating. The latest tallies put   the death toll at  up   from 478 just a couple of hours earlier Friday morning. That   makes Matthew the deadliest natural disaster in the country   since the 2010 earthquake. ’ ”   Many of the deaths were in small towns on the western end of the   Tiburon Peninsula, including at least 50 in the coastal town of      and 90 more in Chantal, per Al Jazeera’s report. ” ’   One person has been  in Florida, according to ABC News, and . Winds in excess of 100 mph   have been recorded in Cape Canaveral and Daytona Beach. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tIncredible video of Hurricane  pummeling the coast of Florida near Daytona Beach   ’ ’   Floodwaters remain the most severe danger from Matthew, impacting   areas of Florida not used this kind of storm. Earlier today,   southern parts of the state avoided the devastation of a . But that could change still up north and in   Georgia. ’ ’   Friday afternoon, the NHC continued to  of the potential for a storm surge of 6 to 9 feet   from Falger Beach, Florida to Edisto Beach, South Carolina   and along the St. Johns River. ’ ’  ’ ”   Gov. Rick Scott of Florida has been urging residents to flee   areas under mandatory evacuation orders since Wednesday. Gov.   Nikki Haley of South Carolina also initiated evacuations along   her state’s coastline. ” ’   Tammy Smith, a resident physician in the University of Florida   hospital system, described to Business Insider a controlled but   hectic scene as evacuated patients arrived from   medical   centers along the Florida and Georgia coasts. Patients were   cleared out of the   unit to make room for the   sudden influx of new arrivals. ’ ’   WESH 2, a local NBC News affiliate in Florida,  that people who ignored orders to evacuate have found   themselves cut off from aid as they face the worst of the storm.   At least one Merritt Island family described to emergency   officials that the roof of their home ”just flew off.” ’ ’   Meteorologists are keeping an eye on Matthew as the threat of an   inland wobble remains severe. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tEye has gone more egg shaped . .. a wobble could rotate the northern eyewall over the coast north of Daytona Beach  ’ ’ This article was updated with news of the storm surge in   Jacksonville at 2:42 pm Friday, with a new forecast map at 3 pm,   and with new news of power outages at 3:30 pm. ’