’  ’ ’   Sen. John McCain of Arizona, the 2008 Republican presidential   nominee, withdrew his support for Donald Trump Saturday in   response to the shocking leaked 2005 recording of the 2016   GOP nominee  ”by the    ” because ”when you’’re a star they   let you do it.” ’ ’   The recording of Trump, which was picked up by a hot mic and    on Friday, came from an   interaction between Trump and television personality Billy Bush.   In addition to his comments about grabbing women ”by the   ”   Trump made a litany of other sexually suggestive remarks. ’ ’   McCain said it was ”impossible” to offer support to a candidate   who ”boasts about sexual assaults,” going further in his language   than the . ’ ’   ”In addition to my well known differences with Donald Trump on   public policy issues, I have raised questions about his character   after his comments on Prisoners of War, the Khan Gold Star   family, Judge [Gonzalo] Curiel and earlier inappropriate comments   about women,” he said. ’ ’   He was citing times Trump  status, feuded with the parents of   a slain Muslim US soldier, and ripped a federal judge for not   being able to treat him fairly because of his heritage. ’ ’   The Arizona senator is currently locked in a tight reelection   battle. ’ ’   ”Just this week, he made outrageous statements about the innocent   men in the Central Park Five case,” McCain said, noting Trump’’s    was guilty of a late 1980s rape for   which DNA exonerated them. ’ ’   At the time, Trump took out a   ad in a the New York   Times calling for the   of the death penalty for the   five men. ’ ’   ”As I said yesterday, there are no excuses for Donald Trump’s   offensive and demeaning comments in the just released video; no   woman should ever be victimized by this kind of inappropriate   behavior,” McCain said. ”He alone bears the burden of his conduct   and alone should suffer the consequences.” ’ ’   ”I have wanted to support the candidate our party nominated,” he   continued. ”He was not my choice, but as a past nominee, I   thought it important I respect the fact that Donald Trump won a   majority of the delegates by the rules our party set. I thought I   owed his supporters that deference.” ’ ’  ’ ’   But the leaked recording was the final straw for McCain. ’ ’   ”Donald Trump’s behavior this week, concluding with the   disclosure of his demeaning comments about women and his boasts   about sexual assaults, make it impossible to continue to offer   even conditional support for his candidacy,” he said. ’ ’   He added that his wife, Cindy, ”with her strong background in   human rights and respect for women,” agrees with the decision. ’ ’   ”Cindy and I will not vote for Donald Trump,” he said. ”I have   never voted for a Democratic presidential candidate and we will   not vote for Hillary Clinton. We will write in the name of some   good conservative Republican who is qualified to be President.” ’ ’   Trump addressed the matter in a Friday statement, in which he   called the comments ”locker room banter” and added that former   President Bill Clinton has said ”far worse to me on the golf   course.” ’ ’   That was later followed by a   video address, offering a   brief apology and saying he looked forward to the Sunday   night presidential debate. He posted a tweet Saturday morning to   call the past day ”certainly . .. interesting.” ’ ’   Almost immediately, Trump came under fire from those on both   sides of the aisle  —   as many top Republicans either strongly   condemned the comments or unendorsed the Manhattan billionaire   altogether. ’