’  ’ ”   Republicans are fleeing Donald Trump’s camp in droves as a   firestorm of criticism over comments he made in a leaked   recording continues. ” ”   Several prominent Republican figures and politicians have   announced they’re withdrawing their support for the GOP   presidential nominee since the recording surfaced Friday. ” ’   The 2005 recording  about   women. Trump, who was newly married to his wife Melania at the   time, boasted of trying to sleep with a married woman and talked   about being able to ”grab” women ”by the    ” because   ”when you’’re a star they let you do it.” ’ ’   Republican Sen. Kelly Ayotte of New Hampshire withdrew her   endorsement Saturday. ’ ”   Ayotte, locked in a tight   fight,  on Saturday morning that she would no longer be   voting for Trump and would instead write in a vote for Indiana   Gov. Mike Pence, Trump’s running mate. ” ’’ ’   ”I wanted to be able to support my party’’s nominee, chosen by the   people, because I feel strongly that we need a change in   direction for our country,” Ayotte said. ’ ’   ”However, I’’m a mom and an American first, and I cannot and will   not support a candidate for president who brags about degrading   and assaulting women,” she added. ”I will not be voting for   Donald Trump or Hillary Clinton and instead will be writing in   Governor Pence for president on Election Day.” ’ ”   This isn’t the first instance of Trump endangering Ayotte’s   Senate race. She’s up for reelection in New Hampshire, and the   race is close. ” ’   During a debate earlier this week, she gave an awkward answer   when asked whether she thinks Trump is a good role model for   kids. ’ ’   ”I would tell a child to absolutely aspire, certainly, to be   their best, and to be president, to seek to run for the   presidency, absolutely,” she said. ’ ’   She later issued a statement saying she ”misspoke” and that   ”neither Donald Trump nor Hillary Clinton have set a good   example, and I wouldn’’t hold up either of them as role models for   my kids.” ’ ’   Sen. John Thune of South Dakota also rescinded his endorsement of   Trump on Saturday. ’ ’   ”Donald Trump should withdraw and Mike Pence should be our   nominee effective immediately,” he . ’ ’   Sen. Mike Crapo of Idaho also withdrew his support for Trump on   Saturday. He  that Trump’’s ”repeated actions and comments   toward women have been disrespectful, profane, and demeaning.” He   also called for Pence to replace Trump on the Republican ticket. ’ ’   Several other Republicans had issued similar statements on   Friday: ’ ’ Bryan Logan contributed to this report. ’