’  ’ ’   After seeing hundreds of entrepreneurs pitch their businesses   over six full seasons of ”Shark Tank,” Mark Cuban said there are   only three primary categories they can fall into: honest   entrepreneurs, arrogant ones, or scam artists. ’ ’   At a ”Shark Tank” a roundtable discussion hosted by Sony Pictures   Television and ABC in late September to celebrate the premiere of   the show’’s eighth season, Cuban explained that each of these   types will dictate how he behaves during the pitch. ’ ’   ”There are two elements,” Cuban said. ”It’’s not just, ’’Is it a   good business? ,’’ but ’’Is it a good investment for us? ’’ ’ ’   That means the Sharks will see plenty of entrepreneurs they   admire, but in whom they have no interest in investing. Cuban   said he will be respectful to these entrepreneurs, regardless of   whether he thinks they can make him money. ’ ’   ”And so if they’’re an honest entrepreneur, I know we all  —   except   for maybe Kevin [O’’Leary]  —   try to be very supportive. Because we   know this is going to air and we’’re trying to send a message to   everybody.” ’ ’’ ’   O’’Leary, who is known for bullying entrepreneurs and calling them   ”cockroaches,” explained that the reason he’’s so harsh is because   he thinks he’’s doing them a service by telling them to stop   wasting their time on a struggling business. If they can prove   him wrong, then he’’s happy to hear them out. ”I’’m trying to test   the mettle of those entrepreneurs, because if they think it’’s   tough in the Shark Tank, wait until they get out in the real   world,” . ”If they can’’t take a guy   like me, then they’’re not ready.” ’ ”   At the Season 8 roundtable, fellow Shark Lori Greiner defended   Cuban’s position, saying that she and Cuban are aware of the   children and aspiring entrepreneurs watching the show, and don’t   want them to see the investors picking on someone following their   dream. ” ”   Sometimes an entrepreneur will speak down to the Sharks. They’re   typically from Silicon Valley, where everyone competes for   millions of dollars in capital, or Utah, . ” ’   ”The arrogant ones are sometimes the most interesting,” Cuban   said. ”And so if they’’re arrogant, then it becomes a battle of   wits for us. You see us perk up, because we want to come right   back at them. Like hey you’’re coming one against five. And we   each have our own skill set, and it’’s hard to match up against   that many, even if there’’s two or three of them. And so that’’s   interesting and that’’s a different dynamic.” ’ ’    ’ ’  ’ ’   Cuban said some of the entrepreneurs out there . When they find their way   into the Tank, they make for some pretty entertaining segments. ’ ’   In Season 6, for example, Cuban called out  for being ”scammy,”   because he considered McDaniel’’s   crowdfunding   business to be preying on unsophisticated people. Barbara   Corcoran, who made her fortune building one of New York’’s   premiere real estate agencies, said McDaniel and his idea were   ”spooky.” The business no longer exists. ’ ’   In the same way ”Shark Tank” can make a company, it can break   one, too.  ’