’  ’ ’   President Barack Obama on Sunday called the shocking leaked 2005   recording of Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump    ”by the    ” a sign of the Manhattan   billionaire’’s insecurity. ’ ’   The recording of Trump, which was picked up by a hot mic and    on Friday, came from an   interaction between Trump and television personality Billy Bush.   In addition to his comments about grabbing women ”by the   ”   Trump made a litany of other sexually suggestive remarks. The   Post reported it came after Trump married his third wife,   Melania. ’ ’   ”One of the most disturbing things about this election is just   the unbelievable rhetoric coming at the top of the Republican   ticket,” Obama said at a fundraiser in Chicago. ”I don’’t need to   repeat it. There are children in the room.” ’ ’   ”But demeaning women, degrading women, but also minorities,   immigrants, people of other faiths, mocking the disabled,   insulting our troops, insulting our veterans,” he continued,   naming a list of prior controversial Trump comments. ”That tells   you a couple things. It tells you he is insecure enough that he   pumps himself up by putting other people down. Not a character   trait that I would advise for somebody in the Oval Office.” ’ ’   The president said the tape showed that Trump ”doesn’’t care much   about the basic values we try to impart to kids.” ’ ’’ ’   Trump addressed the matter in a Friday statement, in which he   called the comments ”locker room banter” and added that former   President Bill Clinton has said ”far worse to me on the golf   course.” ’ ’   That was later followed by a   video address, offering a   brief apology and saying he looked forward to the Sunday   night presidential debate. He posted a tweet Saturday morning to   call the past day ”certainly . .. interesting.” ’ ’   Almost immediately, Trump came under fire from those on both   sides of the aisle  —   as many top Republicans either strongly   condemned the comments or unendorsed the Manhattan billionaire   altogether. ’