’  ’ ”   It’s easy to let your inbox get out of control. ” ”   We’ve all been there: staring at line after line of emails that      need a response, receiving another three   . ” ”   Tom Patterson, CEO of men’s undershirt company Tommy John, feels   your pain. ” ’   On a episode of Bloomberg anchor and Radiate founder Betty Liu’’s    Patterson told Liu that as he’’s built his     company, he’’s become more thoughtful about how he   spends his time. ”I would say in the last couple years I’’ve   really got into   so to say, and how do you hack   efficiencies so you can get back, or get the most out of, the   time that you have,” he said.  ’ ’   ”At the end of the day, you owe it to the employees at your   company to be focusing on the things that are going to continue   to allow you to have success,” he continued. ”And if you’’re   bogged down in the details, to me it means there’’s something   wrong.” He went on to say that hiring an assistant to manage his   calendar made a huge difference in his productivity, but his   thoughts on getting bogged down in the details apply just as well   to another conversation he had with Liu, which : how to manage his overwhelming inbox,   which he said was getting up to hundreds of messages per day. ’ ’’ ’   ”Starting late last year, Tom set up an automatic message to   people that told them he wouldn’’t be checking email from the   hours of 9 a. m. to 5 p. m.,”  That message reads, ”I am currently checking   email before 9am and after 5pm EST so there will be a delayed   response. If this is urgent please call or text. ” ’ ’   Patterson told Liu that because he doesn’’t respond immediately,   he finds employees feel more empowered to take control of issues   or problems that come up without his  . Plus, it manages   people’’s expectations. ”It makes people more comfortable,” he   told her. ”They stop wondering ’’Did he get the email? ’’ or ’’Did it   go to spam? ’’ There’’s more certainty.” ’ ”   It’s not an ideal solution for people in customer service jobs or   in jobs where emails do in fact require a prompt reply  —   or, for   that matter, working for bosses who require a prompt reply  —   but   it’s one solution to  rather than wandering to   your open email tab. And, if you’re interested in giving it shot,   it’s likely to be effective on a collapsed time frame as well: An     keeping you out of your inbox just until noon, for   example, could have a similar effect without sentencing you to     emailing. ” ”   If you’re looking for more strategies to wrangle your inbox,   consider  or take   a tip from  who manage to   keep their email under control. ” ’   Or, you could follow the example of Life Is Good founders John   and Bert Jacobs, who have sworn off email altogether.  that they’’re able to ”s ’ ”   It’s not as crazy as it sounds.  the Jacobs brothers write,  ” ’    ’