’  ’ ”   WASHINGTON (AP)  —   Newly leaked emails show consternation among   those closest to Hillary Clinton about how Bill Clinton’s   business dealings might damage his reputation and potentially   affect her presidential hopes. ” ’   The emails, posted Monday by the WikiLeaks organization, also   give insight into tension and turmoil within the Clinton   Foundation while Clinton was serving as secretary of state. The   chief operating officer of the family charity was reported to be   threatening to commit suicide over the stress. ’ ’   Wikileaks began releasing on Friday what it says are years of   messages from the accounts of Clinton Campaign Chairman John   Podesta. Podesta has acknowledged his emails were hacked, but   warned the messages may have been altered or edited to do   political damage to Clinton. ’ ”   It wasn’t immediately clear who hacked Podesta’s emails, though   U. S. intelligence officials last week blamed the Russian   government for a series of breaches and leaks intended to   influence the presidential election. ” ”   The emails that circulated among Podesta, Chelsea Clinton and   former close Bill Clinton aide Doug Band detail internal tensions   that simmered inside the Clinton Foundation and appear to have   played a role in Band’s departure from the family charity. ” ”   Internal concerns among Clinton family intimates about Band and   the private corporate advisory firm he   Teneo   Holdings, have been previously detailed in several media   accounts. But the new emails provide raw glimpses of an apparent   power struggle between the Clintons’ daughter and Band, who   worked closely for Bill Clinton for more than a decade after the   end of the Clinton administration. ” ”   In an email exchange from December 2011, Chelsea Clinton tells   Podesta and others  —   including Clinton adviser and current   Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe  —   that she’s increasingly concerned   about Teneo. ” ’  ’ ’   The email includes a forwarded news article that alleges that   former President Bill Clinton had collected $50, 000 a month   through Teneo from MF Global, the commodities brokerage formerly   run by former New Jersey Gov. Jon Corzine, while MF Global was   preparing to file for bankruptcy. ’ ’   Chelsea Clinton tells Podesta and others that two people   separately came up to her at a London event for the Clinton   Foundation to raise concerns someone representing Teneo clients   had been calling members of the British Parliament ”on behalf of   President Clinton” without her father’’s knowledge. Chelsea   Clinton said the calls had people in London ”making comparisons”   between the ”profit motivations” of the former president and   former Prime Minister Tony Blair. ’ ’   ”Which would horrify my father,” Chelsea Clinton wrote. ’ ”   Band wrote in an email that Chelsea Clinton seemed more concerned   about critical news coverage about MF Global, a derivatives   broker, and Band’s advisory firm, Teneo, than published reports   about Bill Clinton’s infidelity. ” ’   ”I realize it is difficult to confront and reason with her but   this could go (too) far and then we all will have a real serious   set of other problems,” Band vented in an exchange sent to   Podesta. ”I don’’t deserve this from her and deserve a tad more   respect . .. She is acting like a spoiled brat kid who has nothing   else to do but create issues to justify what she’’s doing because   she, as she has said, hasn’’t found her way and has a lack of   focus in her life.” ’ ’  ’ ”   The emails reflect the ascendance of Chelsea Clinton  —   as early   as 2011  —   inside the family charity. The younger Clinton was   recently was anointed as the Clinton Foundation’s future leader   if her mother wins the presidency next month. Bill Clinton   announced in August that he planned to step down from the   charity’s board if his wife becomes president. Chelsea Clinton   will remain on the organization’s board. ” ’   Bill Clinton explained in a letter to supporters in August that   he would resign and stop raising funds for the charity to   eliminate ”legitimate concerns about potential conflicts of   interest.” ’ ’   Calls seeking comment from the Clinton Foundation and from Teneo,   where Band works, received no immediate response on Monday. ’ ’   Also in December 2011, Clinton Foundation chief operating officer   Laura Graham contacted Band to complain that stress she blamed on   the former president and Chelsea Clinton was causing her to   consider suicide. ’ ’   Band wrote that when Graham called him, she was in her car parked   near the water with her foot on the gas pedal. He said he   dissuaded her from hurting herself. ’ ’   ”She called me to tell me the stress of all of this office crap   with wjc and cvc as well as that of her family had driven her to   the edge and she couldn’’t take it anymore,” Band wrote in an   email to Podesta and Cheryl Mills, then Hillary Clinton’’s chief   of staff. ’ ’   Graham later departed the Clinton Foundation, taking a new job   with the State of New York. Phone messages left for Graham on   Monday received no immediate response. ’ ’     ’