’  ’ ’   Of all the ways Donald Trump and his supporters are defending   him  the argument that   makes my jaw drop most is, ”Who among us?” ’ ”   We’re all flawed, we’re told. So who among us really has   standing to criticize Trump for bragging that his celebrity   status allows him to grab women’s genitals without their   permission? ” ’   ”We all fall short of the glory of God,”  Trump’’s running mate, who has previously   claimed to be a Christian first, a conservative second, and   a Republican third. ’ ’   ”Men, at times, talk like that,” Rudy Giuliani . (Giuliani demurred when Tapper   followed up, ”Have you talked like that? ”) ’ ’   Trump himself hit his Republican critics not just for undermining   the party’’s chances to win the election, but for being   ”  hypocrites.” ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tSo many   hypocrites. Watch their poll numbers   and elections   go down! ’t’t’ ”   This is a window into Trump’s view of humanity:   He believes that, deep down, everybody else is as   horrible as he is. ” ’   He is wrong. ’ ”   I don’t think I’m going out on a limb when I say I doubt Utah   Sen. Mike Lee is a hypocrite for denouncing Trump, because I   doubt he has ever grabbed a woman’s genitals without her   permission, or bragged about doing so. ” ’   Most of us are better people than Donald Trump. I have   standing to criticize him, because I am a better person   than he is. You probably are, too. ’ ”   I’m not a Christian, and I usually try to refrain from telling   Christians how to apply their faith. But I’m appalled by the pass   Trump gets from so many   Christians despite having   a personality that, more or less, consists of sin. ” ”   Trump is greedy. He is cruel. Boastful. Dishonest.   Intemperate. Vain. And, now we know, he believes he is   entitled to grab women’s genitals without their permission. ” ’   Christian forgiveness is one thing  —   though my understanding   is, forgiveness is supposed to be sought from God, which   . ’ ”   But even if you feel compelled to forgive Trump, that does not   mean you should make him president. Especially since his sins are   worse than most people’s. ” ’   ”Let he who is without sin cast the first stone” is not supposed   to be an endorsement of moral nihilism, but a lot of Trump’’s   supporters are twisting it into one. ’