’    ’ ” Our gut does more than help us digest food; the bacteria that   call our intestines home have been implicated in everything from   our mental health and sleep, to weight gain and cravings for   certain foods. This series examines how far the science has come   and whether there’s anything we can do to improve the health of   our gut. ” ’   The gut microbiota is the community of bugs, including bacteria,   that live in our intestine. It has been called the body’’s   ”forgotten organ” because of the important role it plays beyond   digestion and metabolism. ’ ’   You might have read about the importance of a healthy gut   microbiota for a healthy brain. Links have been made between the   microbiota and depression, anxiety and stress. Your gut bacteria   may even affect how well you sleep. ’ ’   But it can be difficult to work out exactly how far the science   has come in this emerging field of research. So what evidence is   there that your gut microbiota affects your brain? ’ ’ ’ ”   When you’re healthy, bacteria are kept safely inside your gut.   For the most part, the bacteria and your gut live in harmony.   (The gut has been known to nurture or even  of the bacteria for your    .) ” ’   So how do the bacteria get their signal out? ’ ’   The best evidence is that the normal channels of communication   from your gut are being hijacked by the bacteria. ’ ’   The gut has a bidirectional relationship with the central nervous   system, referred to as the ””. This allows the gut to send   and receive signals to and from the brain. ’ ’   A recent  found that the addition of a ”good” strain   of the bacteria lactobacillus (which is also found in yoghurt) to   the gut of normal mice reduced their anxiety levels. The effect   was blocked after cutting the vagus nerve  —   the main connection   between brain and gut. This suggests the   axis is being   used by bacteria to affect the brain. ’ ’   This link was clarified in a  where bacterial metabolites ( )   from fibre digestion were found to increase the levels of the gut   hormone and neurotransmitter, serotonin. Serotonin can activate   the vagus, suggesting one way your gut bacteria might be linked   with your brain. ’ ’   There are  gut bacteria might affect your   brain, including via bacterial toxins and metabolites,     changing your   and stirring   up your immune system. ’ ’  ’ ”   Two human studies looked at people with major depression and   found that bacteria in their faeces differed from healthy   volunteers. But it’s not yet clear why there is a difference, or   even what counts as a . ” ’   In mouse studies, changes to the gut bacteria from antibiotics,   probiotics (live bacteria) or specific breeding techniques are   associated with anxious and depressive behaviours. These   behaviours can be ”” from one mouse to another after a   faecal microbiota transplant. ’ ’   Even more intriguingly, in a  this year, gut microbiota samples from   people with major depression were used to colonise     rats. These rats went on to show behavioural changes related to   depression. ’ ”   Stress is also likely to be important in gut microbiota and   mental health. We’ve known for a long time that stress   contributes to the onset of mental illness. We are now   discovering bidirectional links between stress and the   microbiota. ” ’   In rat pups, exposure to a stressor (being separated from their   mums) changes their gut microbiota, their stress response,   . Probiotics containing   ”good” strains of bacteria can reduce their stress behaviours. ’ ’  ’ ’   Medical conditions associated with changes in mood, such as   irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) and chronic fatigue syndrome   (CFS) might also be related to gut microbiota. ’ ’   IBS is considered a ”” since it is often   worsened by stress. Half of IBS sufferers also have difficulties   with depression or anxiety. ’ ’   Ongoing  is investigating whether gut bacteria are   one reason for the mood symptoms in IBS, as well as the   gastrointestinal pain, diarrhoea and constipation. ’ ’   Similarly, CFS is a   illness, with many patients   experiencing unbalanced gut microbiota. In these patients,   alterations in the gut microbiota may contribute to the   development of symptoms such as depression, neurocognitive   impairments (affecting memory, thought and communication) pain   and sleep disturbance. ’ ’ higher levels of   lactobacillus were associated with poorer mood in CFS   participants. Some improvements in sleep and mood were observed   when patients used antibiotic treatment to reduce gut microbial   imbalance. ’ ’   The exact contributions of stress and other factors such as   intestinal permeability (which allows nutrients to pass through   the gut) to these disorders are not understood. But the   downstream effects seem to be involved in IBS, inflammatory bowel   conditions, CFS, depression and chronic pain. ’ ’  ’ ’   Our mental health is closely linked to the quality and timing of   our sleep. Now evidence suggests that the gut microbiota can   influence sleep quality and   cycles (our circadian   rhythm). ’ ’   A study this year examined patients . The researchers found that higher levels of the ”bad”   clostridium bacteria were associated with an increased likelihood   of sleep problems and fatigue, but this was specific to females   only. This suggests that an unbalanced gut may precipitate or   perpetuate sleep problems. ’ ’   There is emerging evidence that circadian rhythms regulate the   gut immune response. The effect of immune cells on the biological   clock could provide insights into the possible bidirectional   relationship between sleep and the gut. For example, data from    suggests that circadian   misalignment can lead to an unbalanced gut microbiota. But this   effect can be moderated by diet. ’ ’   There is growing concern that  to our circadian timing of sleep leads   to a range of health issues, such as obesity, metabolic and   inflammatory disease, and mood disorders. This is particularly   important for shiftworkers and others who experience changes to   their   patterns. ’ ’  ’ ’   In terms of using interventions directed at the gut to treat   brain disorders  —   so called ”psychobiotics”  —   there is a lot of   promise but little clear evidence. ’ ’   Probiotic (live bacteria) treatments in mice have been shown to   reduce cortisol, an important stress hormone, and decrease   anxious and depressive behaviours. ’ ’   But there are very few studies in humans. A  of all the human studies   showed the majority do not show any effect of probiotics on mood,   stress or symptoms of mental illness. ’ ’   On the plus side, large studies show us that people who eat a   balanced diet with all the usual good stuff (fibre, fresh fruit   and vegetables) have lower rates of mental illness as  and . ’ ’   Clearly, diet affects both the gut microbiota and mental health.   Research is ongoing to see whether it is a healthy gut microbiota   that underlies this relationship. ’ ’   A healthy gut microbiota is linked to a healthy brain. However   there are only a handful of human studies demonstrating     relevance of this link to mental health outcomes. ’ ’   There is still a way to go before we can say exactly how best to   harness the microbiota in order to improve brain function and   mental health. ’ ’  Senior Lecturer in School of Health   and Biomedical Sciences, ;  Associate Lecturer, Industry Fellow,    and  Senior Research Fellow in the   School of Health and Biomedical Sciences,  ’ ’ This article was originally published on .   Read the . ’