’  ’ ’   An email published Wednesday suggests that the interim chair of   the Democratic National Committee had the text of a proposed   question before a town hall event with Hillary Clinton and   Bernie Sanders earlier this year. ’ ’   Donna Brazile, the chair, is then thought to have shared the   question with the Clinton campaign. ’ ”   The email, which was  contains the exact wording of a   question that one of the   moderators, TV One’s Roland   Martin, sent to CNN producers before the town hall. It matches   the language in an email Brazile sent to the Clinton campaign one   day earlier. ” ’   That email was part of the recent WikiLeaks release of Clinton   campaign chair John Podesta’’s leaked emails. In the email, sent   to Clinton communications director Jennifer Palmieri, Brazil said   that she ”gets questions in advance.” ’ ’   On Tuesday, the DNC  that Brazile leaked any questions to   Clinton ahead of the town hall hosted by CNN and TV One. Brazile   had at one point been a CNN contributor. ’ ’’ ’   ”I often shared my thoughts with each and every campaign, and any   suggestions that indicate otherwise are completely untrue,”   Brazile said in a Tuesday statement. ”I never had access to   questions and would never have shared them with the candidates if   I did.” ’ ’   Brazile said the question Brazile forwarded on to Palmieri was   not from the town hall, but was rather a topic for conversation   on a panel that Brazile was to set to appear on. A DNC   spokesperson declined repeated requests for clarification on   which panel she was set to appear on to discuss the issue in   question. ’ ”   In fact, an email Politico obtained suggests otherwise,   since Martin’s question that was sent to CNN producers for the   town hall was the same question that was in Brazile’s email. ” ’   The question was phrased as such: ’ ’   The death penalty did come up at the town hall, but the question,   which came from an audience member, was similar but ended up   being worded differently. ’ ’   Martin told Politico that he did not believe he   consulted with Brazile on the question ahead of the town hall. ’