”It would be hard to overestimate the importance of the Levante SUV for Maserati. The brand came back to the US over a decade and and half ago, but since the financial crisis and amid an SUV boom, it’s been selling only stylish luxury sedans and sexy GT sports car.” ”That will all now change, and it couldn’t happen at a more important time for the Italian automaker, part of the Fiat Chrysler Automobiles empire. It’s down at the bottom of the luxury sales hierarchy in the US, with a puny 0. 1% overall market share (Porsche sells five times as many vehicles annually).” ’The Quattroporte and Ghibli sedans have their fans (). But in the US and increasingly China, you really need a strong crossover offering. Porsche established the template for an automaker that had never built an SUV crossing that river in the early 2000s when it created the Cayenne, a hugely successful vehicle.’ ’Now Maserati has taken the same plunge.’ ”We first saw the Levante when it was revealed at the 2016 Geneva Motor Show and later in the flesh at the New York auto show. Now we’ve actually spent some time behind the wheel. It was a relatively brief,   run from a working farm and restaurant, Blue Hill at Stone Farms, about an hour north of New York to Bear Mountain.” ”This wasn’t enough time to fully evaluate the vehicle  —   we’ll get a crack at that later  —   but we formed some early impressions. And those impressions were good.” ’Read on:’ ”I didn’t drive the car for long, but when I was driving it, I thought it was brilliant. This is easily the best luxury performance crossover SUV to hit the market this year and worthy competition for the Cayenne. Maserati set a tall order for itself with that one, but they appear to have pulled it off.” ’I drove the    Levante and when I kicked it into Sport mode, the engine made growling, joyful, and   sorta nasty music. The    system can interpret your driving style and keep most of the traction on the rear wheels or move some grip farther forward, if you need some help. I was used to this from the Ghibli, and it continues to do a fine job with the Levante.’ ”The suspension is taut without being overly stiff, and bodyroll is limited in the corners, which the Levante gobbles up smoothly for a vehicle that tips the scale at over 4, 500 lbs. In a straight line, the SUV from Modena   cooks. That dropped center of gravity and the   weight split gives you more control than you’re probably accustomed to, if you’ve been piloting traditional SUVs. It might give you more control than you get from some sports cars!” ” and the Levante did not fail to make me feel those feelings. I’m really, really, really looking forward to a slightly longer date with this budding masterpiece of Italian  .” ’ ’