’  ’ ’   HARTFORD, Conn. (AP)  —   A judge on Friday dismissed a wrongful   death lawsuit by Newtown families against the maker of the rifle   used in   the   Elementary   School shooting, saying federal law shields gun manufacturers   from most lawsuits over criminal use of their products. ’ ’   State Superior Court Judge Barbara Bellis granted a motion by   Remington Arms to strike the lawsuit by the families of nine   children and adults killed and a teacher who survived the attack   on Dec. 14, 2012. ’ ’   A gunman killed 20   and six educators at the school   with a Bushmaster    rifle made by Remington. ’ ’   The families were seeking to hold Remington accountable for   selling what their lawyers called a   rifle that is   too dangerous for the public because it was designed as a   military killing machine. ’ ’   Bellis agreed with attorneys for Madison, North     Remington that the lawsuit should be dismissed under the federal   Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act passed by Congress in   2005, which shielded gun makers from liability when their   firearms are used in crimes. ’ ’’ ’   Lawyers for the families had argued that the lawsuit was allowed   under an exception in the federal law that allows litigation   against companies that know, or should know, that their weapons   are likely to be used in a way that risks injury to others. ’ ’   Bellis, who sits in Bridgeport, disagreed. ’ ”   The families can ask Bellis to reconsider her ruling or try to   file an amended lawsuit. Joshua Koskoff, a lawyer for the   families, didn’t immediately return a message Friday. ” ’   Jonathan Whitcomb, an attorney for Remington Arms, declined to   comment. ’ ”   Besides Remington, other defendants in the lawsuit include   firearms distributor Camfour and Riverview Gun Sales, the     East Windsor store where the Newtown gunman’s mother   legally bought the Bushmaster   rifle used in the   shooting. ” ’   Adam Lanza, 20, shot his mother to death at their Newtown home   before driving to the school, where he killed 26 other people. He   killed himself as police arrived. ’