’  ’ ”   The best advice for retiring rich is to . For some Americans approaching retirement   age, however, not only is retiring with tons of cash out of the   question, but there’s also an increasing worry they won’t have   enough saved to actually retire. ” ’   Thankfully, there are ways to catch up on lost time and money. ’ ’   On a recent episode of her ”” podcast, financial   planner  asks her guest, Ric Edelman,    and CEO of  his best advice for Americans who feel   unprepared to retire. ’ ’   For starters, ”you can    than people younger than you are able,” Edelman said. And ”you   need to reduce the expenses as much as you can now to free up as   much cash as possible that you can use to save and invest.” ’ ’   Edelman also says that there are two big things you should be   doing to make up for lost time that ”most people tend to ignore.” ’ ’’ ’   ”Number one is to make sure that your money is invested in a way   that gives you the best potential for earning the returns offered   by the financial markets,” Edelman said. ”If you are   going to throw all of your   savings into bank accounts   where it is earning    in today’’s environment, I   don’’t care how hard you work. I don’’t care how much   money you save. You’’re never going to be able to accumulate   enough wealth. ’ ’   ”You’’ve got to have your pennies earning pennies. It’’s not enough   that you save pennies  —   you have to get the pennies earning   pennies through compound interest, compound growth, and that   means you’’ve got to invest where you have the potential to earn   6, 7, 8, 9% per year. Earning 0 or 1 or 2% a year isn’’t going to   cut it.” ’ ’   ”The second thing you need to do is look for innovative, unique   ways that you can earn more money than you were, and that’’s never   been easier thanks to exponential technologies and the internet,”   Edelman said. ’ ’   ”You can do all kinds of things to make money on the   side. . .. Everything from renting a room in your house through   Airbnb to driving your car to make money on Uber to   engaging in a wide variety of business activities that the   websites, tens of thousands of them on the internet, will help   you do,” he said. ’ ’   ”You can make money loaning your lawn mower and power tools to   neighbors, where you can buy returned goods from retailers and   resell them on eBay,” Edelman said. ”The list is virtually   endless, and you can take some of your down time, as you wish, to   generate a few extra hundred bucks a month, which is, for many   people, a huge amount of money to make a big difference in their   ability to save for the future.” ’