’  ’ ”   On Tuesday,  that should set Cisco’s teeth on edge. ” ’   Its   computer network switch, called the Wedge   100, is now available for purchase though Chinese contract   manufacturer Edgecore (owned by Accton Technology). ’ ”   That’s the same company that manufacturers the     switch for Facebook’s own internal use. ” ’   This is a superfast 100G switch, and could be something that many   other big companies  —   and certainly other internet companies  —     will want to buy. ’ ”   While Facebook isn’t a direct competitor to Cisco  —   it’s giving   away the switch design for free, not making money on it  —   it is   doing something perhaps even more astounding: It has created an   entire ecosystem of companies that are, collectively, taking on   Cisco, which  according to IDC. ” ”   This is all part of Facebook’s  or OCP  —     arguably one of Facebook’s . ” ’  ’ ’   ”OCP has a cultlike following,” one person with knowledge of the   situation told Business Insider. ”The whole industry, internet   companies, vendors, and enterprises are monitoring OCP.” ’ ’   OCP aims to do for computer hardware what the Linux operating   system did for software: make it   so anyone can take   the designs for free and modify them, with contract manufacturers   standing by to build them. ’ ’   OCP allows the world’’s best hardware engineers to collaborate and   work openly together ”without fear of transferring” their   company’’s secrets, this person said. ’ ”   In its six years, OCP has grown into a global entity, with board   members from Facebook, Goldman Sachs, Intel, and Microsoft. Famed   network engineer Andy Bechtolsheim is also on the board.   (Bechtolsheim is a cofounder of Cisco’s arch enemy, Arista   Networks. He famously   Google with Arista’s other   founder, David Cheriton.) OCP conferences draw in tens of   thousands of people. ” ”   In fact, there’s a   story among OCP insiders that   demonstrates this phenomenon. It involves Apple’s networking   team. ” ’  ’ ’   This team was responsible for building a network at Apple that   was so reliable it would never down. Not rarely  —   never. ’ ’   Think about it: When was the last time iTunes or Siri or Apple   Maps was offline? ’ ”   Building a 100% reliable network to meet Apple’s exacting   standards was no easy task. ” ”   Instead of going it alone under Apple’s secrecy, the Apple   networking team wanted to participate in the revolution,   contributing and receiving help. ” ’   But when the Apple team asked to join OCP, Apple said no. ’ ’   ”The whole team quit the same week,” this person told us. ’ ’   Shortly afterward, Apple . But that was too late for the engineers   who quit. ’ ’   Instead, they founded a startup called SnapRoute, led by Jason   Forrester, the former team leader. While Forrester declined to   talk to us for this article,    hints at the story. ’ ’   ”Slowly, our desire to share our ideas with the world began to   overshadow the thrill and pride of working for Apple. My team and   I left in 2015,” he wrote. ”Truth be told, I spent a few days   crying on the couch. My mood only improved when we began to test   our ideas with potential customers.” ’ ”   While Facebook also gives away the software it designed to run   its new switch as an   project, a whole list of   startups and a few established players are standing by to sell   commercial software that works with and improves upon the   Facebook switch. That’s the whole point of doing this    . ” ’   For the Wedge 100, the list includes Big Switch Networks, Linux   maker Ubuntu, and Apstra, the new startup from Cheriton, a   billionaire Stanford professor. (Cheriton left Arista in 2014 and    though he is still a   major shareholder.) ’ ’   And the list includes that tiny startup, SnapRoute. ’ ”   Word is that SnapRoute already has an impressive roster of   customers, although it’s not alone in attacking this     networking market. Hewlett Packard Enterprise   and Arista, both OCP members, have partnered on it. And   Microsoft, an OCP board member, is working on something called   . ” ”   Meanwhile, Facebook will soon be upping its assault on Cisco by   releasing an even faster piece of optical networking equipment   currently in development, Jason Taylor, Facebook’s vice president   of infrastructure, . ” ’   Who knows what kinds of startups  —   or rebellions  —   that piece of   equipment will inspire? ’ ’   Apple could not be reached for comment. ’