’  ’ ”   There’s a common misconception that trust is something that   builds gradually  —   that the only person you could possibly reveal   personal information to is a close friend or family member you’ve   known for years. ” ’   And yet one of the best nuggets in ”,” a 2015 book by the psychologists Maurice Schweitzer   and Adam Galinsky, debunks that idea, instead suggesting that   there’’s a somewhat scientific formula to . ’ ”   It’s less creepy than it might sound. The key is simply to strike   a balance between   —   so that you seem credible but also   human. ” ’   This idea is based on a  by Elliot Aronson, which found that ”pratfalls,” or   minor   could increase people’’s appeal. For the study,   male college students listened to tape recordings of people   supposedly trying out for the college Quiz Bowl team; some   candidates seemed highly impressive, while others seemed less so. ’ ’   In some cases, the candidate spilled a cup of coffee all over   themselves. Results showed that students liked the impressive   candidates better than the less impressive candidates  —   but they   liked the impressive candidates even more when they spilled their   coffee. ’ ’   To illustrate how this theory works in the real world, the   authors use the example of psychiatrists, whose job is to get   people to open up about their deepest anxieties and insecurities. ’ ”   One of their former students, a psychiatrist named Tom, would   employ one of three tactics when he met a new patient: He’d drop   a pencil, tell a bad joke, or spill his coffee. ” ”   Presumably, Tom’s patients had already been impressed by the   diplomas on his wall, which signaled his competence and   credibility. Now Tom’s goal was to demonstrate some vulnerability   and show that he was indeed a fallible human being. That   combination of competence and warmth would make him seem more   trustworthy. ” ’  ’ ’   This technique works just as well in the business realm. ’ ’   The authors cite an example of an American engineer who was   working at a company in Japan. The engineer was annoyed that he   was continually listed as a visitor in the minutes of the   meetings. But after he joined his Japanese coworkers for a night   of karaoke, they started listing him like the rest of the staff. ’ ”   The authors’ takeaway is that highly competent people can make   themselves seem more approachable  —   and more trustworthy  —   by   being a little clumsy or silly. It makes them seem vulnerable and   warm. ” ’   ”The effectiveness of this strategy debunks the common assumption   that trust is something that can only be built slowly   over time,” the authors wrote. ”By making yourself vulnerable, it   is possible to build trust in less time than it takes to mop up a   spilled latte.” ’ ”   The two caveats here are that you must demonstrate credibility   before you exhibit vulnerability  —   otherwise the formula   won’t work. ” ”   Moreover, you can’t demonstrate vulnerability in a way that   undermines your competence. For example, a surgeon couldn’t drop   his tools and feign clumsiness. ” ”   Bottom line: If you want people to trust you, first impress them   with your knowledge and capability, and then show them you’re a   human being just like they are. Again, it’s nothing sneaky  —   it’s   about giving people a full picture of your abilities and   personality, and ultimately letting them make the decision about   whether to open up to you. ”