’  ’ ’   You might have heard that traders at the biggest US investment   banks have been curtailed. ’ ’   So how is it that a    Goldman Sachs trader made a $100   million profit in just a matter of months? ’ ’   Justin Baer at The Wall Street Journal lifted the lid on the   trader, Tom Malafronte, . ’ ’   Baer reports that Malafronte, who works on the   desk,   bought billions in dollars in junk bonds in January from clients   anxious to sell, and then sold them later for a higher price. ’ ”   You might be asking, isn’t that kind of thing supposed to be been   banned by restrictions like the Volcker rule? ” ’   It is reasonable to ask that question. The thought of having one   person make $100 million in a short amount of time feels like the   bad  —   or good, depending on where you sit  —   old days when traders   placed big bets with bank balance sheets. Restrictions on this   kind of trading were put in place because the flipside is that a   huge loss by a single trader could wreak havoc on the financial   system. ’ ’   But a closer a look at the circumstances of this trade show that   Malafronte probably exists in a gray area that is quickly   shrinking as banks shift the way they trade. And in that sense,   he will prove to be a rarity. ’ ’   So how did it happen? ’ ”   First, it’s important to note that junk bonds were crashing when   Malafronte was reportedly buying. The   which  and continued into   January, saw fund managers rush for the exits. ” ’     funds saw huge outflows, as concerns about the   solvency of the energy sector spilled over to the broader   economy. That in turn affected trading revenues at banks. Goldman   Sachs, for example, had a  with revenues almost half what they were   a year earlier. ’ ’  ’ ’   But with a flood of money leaving the market, the big investment   banks like Goldman Sachs stepped in, taking junk bonds off the   hands of those looking to get out of   in a hurry in the   hope of finding a buyer for those bonds at a later date. ’ ”   Investment banks make markets for their clients. That is their   job. When you hear bank executives say they’ll stand by their   best clients and continue to make markets in difficult   environments, this is what they’re talking about. ” ’   Clearly that role involves  . The trader could take a   bond off the hands of a client and see it fall sharply. ’ ’   It is worth noting, for example, that another desk at Goldman   Sachs, the   team, lost $50 million in 2015   . ’ ”   That brings us to the rules around proprietary trading, and the   line between   and making bets with the bank’s own   funds. ” ’   The technical language is that banks need to show that the bonds   they hold meet ”reasonably expected   demand.” (Matt   Levine at Bloomberg has a great piece of analysis on this, which   .) ’ ’   There are two related parts of that: the bonds they hold, and the   expectation of   demand. ’ ”   First, banks have  they dedicate to making   markets in bonds, giving rise to fears that the bond market   wouldn’t be able to cope if everyone rushed for the exit at the   same time. Deutsche Bank said in June: ” ’   In short: Banks have much smaller positions in the bond market   than before the crisis. ’ ’  ’ ”   Second, let’s explore the expectation of demand, and the length   of time banks hold bonds on their balance sheets. ” ”   With increased regulation postcrisis, more and more trading has   shifted to an agency basis. What this means is that rather than a   bank taking a bond from a client in the hope of finding a buyer   later (principal trading) it’s lining up the buyer and seller at   the same time and acting as a   for a matter of minutes   (agency trading). ” ’   Barclays  and found   that 42% of block trades in the bond market ($1  ) in   2015 had an offsetting trade within a day. ’ ”   The percentage of trades that had no offsetting trade within five   days  —   trading that you can clearly put in the principal trading   camp  —   dropped to 36%. That’s the gray in the chart. ” ’   This was especially the case for older bonds, and one can assume   this is especially the case for   or distressed debt   versus more liquid,   bonds. ’ ’   It appears that, in this case, Malafronte was acting as a   principal trader, operating in the gray area in the chart  —   an   area that is quickly disappearing. ’