’  ’ ”   Donald Trump’s campaign manager, Kellyanne Conway, on Wednesday   seemed to walk back the Republican presidential nominee’s   unfounded claim that there will be widespread voter fraud on   Election Day. ” ’   Conway told MSNBC that she doesn’’t see evidence that states are   rigging the election against Trump, though she asserted that   there is a ”larger conspiracy, larger collusion” between ”some   specific members of the media and the Clinton campaign.” ’ ’   ”Absent overwhelming evidence that there is, it would not be for   me to say that there is,” Conway said of voter fraud. ’ ’   She added: ”Donald Trump is reading reports about rigged systems    —   voter irregularities.” ’ ’   But when pressed about specific instances of voter fraud, Conway   appeared to suggest that the ”rigged” system was not meant to be   taken literally, and was simply a rhetorical   for what   the campaign views as injustices in the American political   system. ’ ’’ ’   ”I think everyone is missing his larger point,” Conway said. ’ ’   ”It is a rigged, corrupt system, whether you believe it’’s rigged   and corrupt at the polls or whether you believe it’’s rigged and   corrupt in that we have a $19 trillion debt and people who are   there for years and years, if not decades,” she added. ’ ’   Over the past week, Trump and many of his top campaign surrogates   have increasingly made the unfounded case that there is a   widespread conspiracy to ”rig” the election against Trump. ’ ’   ”Of course there is large scale voter fraud happening on and   before election day,” Trump tweeted Monday morning. ”Why do   Republican leaders deny what is going on? So naive!” ’ ”   A number of prominent Republicans in charge of overseeing the   election at the state level have criticized Trump’s inflammatory   claim. ” ’   Ohio Secretary of State Jon Husted, a Republican supporting   Trump, said on CNN on Monday that the US election system is ”one   of the bedrocks of American democracy” and added that ”we should   not question it or the legitimacy of it.” ’ ’   ”It works very well in places like Ohio,” . ”We make it easy to vote and hard to cheat. We have   a bipartisan system of elections. Frankly, it’’s the only place   you can find Republicans and Democrats working cooperatively   together. They work that way in our election system to make sure   the integrity of our election system is upheld and that people   feel good about the process of voting.” ’