’  ’ ’   Tesla CEO Elon Musk sure knows how to keep Tesla fans on the edge   of their seats. ’ ’   A little over a week ago,  that the company would unveil a   product on October 17. The day before the event, he  October 19,   stating that the product still needed a . ’ ’   As planned, the unveiling will happen on Wednesday evening.   Earlier in the day, Musk tweeted that the company would post   information about the mysterious product at 5 p. m. Pacific, and   that he will host a media Q&A afterward. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tTesla announcement goes live at 5pm California time. 30 minutes of media Q&A to follow. ’t’t’ ’   Musk had stayed quiet about what was coming, saying only that the   event would be ”unexpected by most.” But on Wednesday afternoon,   he gave a big hint of what to expect when he said on Twitter that   the the unveiling is related to the Model 3, Tesla’’s first     car. ’ ’ ’ ’  This is also what I was alluding to by Model 3 part 2’t’t’ ’   In June at the Code Conference,  the company would host another   ”big” event for the Model 3 before 2017. He didn’’t share many   details about what the company would reveal at this event, but he   did say that Tesla would do ”the obvious thing.” ’ ”   At the time, some speculated Tesla might reveal the interior of   the car at this event, since the company didn’t show off what the   inside of the production vehicle would look like at the . ” ”   There’s also been speculation that Musk would debut Autopilot 2. 0   in the new Model 3. ” ”   Autopilot 2. 0 is the next generation of Tesla’s semiautonomous   driving system. With Autopilot 2. 0, Tesla is expected to add more   sensors to its vehicles to give it more     capabilities. ” ”   Musk announced Tesla’s Autopilot system in October 2014, but the   system became available to users in October 2015. Wednesday’s   announcement will come four days after the   anniversary   of Autopilot’s launch. ” ’   Tesla quietly increased the price of its Autopilot system in   August from $2, 500 to $3, 000. A few weeks later, the company   rolled out its software update, Version 8. 0, to give the car new   features and functions. ’ ”   In August, Musk also hinted that Tesla’s autonomous tech would be   here sooner than expected. ” ’   ”Autonomy is going to come a hell of a lot faster than anyone   thinks it will, and I think what we’’ve got under development is   going to blow people’’s minds,” he said during the company’’s     earnings call. ”It blows my mind.” ’