’  ’ ’   Donald Trump, the nastiest presidential candidate of the   television era, on Wednesday night called his opponent ”,” which was just another   example of him being nasty. ’ ”   Trump’s nastiness is one of the reasons he will lose the   election. But it’s also a key reason he got the Republican   nomination in the first place. ” ’   Over the last few decades, as racism and sexism have become   impolite, a substantial number of voters on the right have   decided politeness itself is a problem. ’ ’   Trump’’s absolute commitment to nastiness  —   often taking the form   of crude sexual insults of women or claims about the criminality   of minorities, but expansive enough to include many   of   white men as well  —   signaled to his voters that he was one of   them, a committed opponent of the forces of politeness that seek   to make ”regular Americans” feel guilty about ”speaking their   minds.” ’ ’   Trump, of course, prefers to frame his nastiness as a rejection   of ”political correctness,” as do many of his supporters. ’ ’   There are cases of real excesses in sensitivity norms, as you may   learn if you try to  or  on a college campus. But the problem with the term   ”political correctness” is that it does not mean anything  —   or   rather, that it can be used to impugn whatever norms governing   social discourse from which the speaker would like to be   liberated. ’ ’   As it turns out, most of the norms around social discourse are   good ones. ’ ’   For example, they include ”don’’t call  and ”don’’t categorize   large chunks of nationalities as rapists and criminals,” and   ”don’’t brag about how big your penis is .” But   if you violate any of these norms and say you’’re just being   ”politically incorrect,” tens of millions of boorish idiots will   cheer you on. ’ ’  ’ ’   This is the Achilles’’ heel of any   movement: The   ”deplorables” are the ones with the most at stake in the fight   against social norms, and their top priority is not sushi at   Oberlin College. ’ ’   They will end up leading any   movement that gets real   political traction and turning it into one that simply seeks to   destroy any notion of politeness or civility or manners. If   politeness is a bar to sexism and racism, then sexists and   racists will be very eager to Make America Impolite Again. ’ ”   Is it any surprise these deplorable people ended up with Donald   Trump, America’s tackiest and nastiest business celebrity, as   their standard bearer? ” ’   Fortunately, nastiness is a loser in a general election. ’ ’   After this election, Republicans will need to do a lot of soul   searching, probably much more than they actually will do. They   ended up with a candidate whose toxic nastiness was his primary   appeal. Their voter base wants a level of nastiness that     voters will not approve. ’ ’   In 2002, after the Conservative Party in the United Kingdom lost   two consecutive landslide elections, a wise member of that party   warned against the danger of fueling a political party with the   resentment of a minority of the population. ’ ’   ”There’’s a lot we need to do in this party of ours,” Theresa May   said. ”Our base is too narrow and so, occasionally, are our   sympathies. You know what some people call us: the Nasty Party.” ’ ’   The Conservatives have had a complicated history since then, one   that has led to May becoming prime minister and, indirectly, to   Brexit. But she was right that one essential step for winning   elections again was becoming significantly less nasty  —   even if   that meant bleeding some of their voter base to a nastier     nationalist party. ’ ”   After November 8, Republican leaders will have to decide whether   they want to be Donald Trump’s Nasty Party, or whether they will   stand up to their own voters when they demand his brand of   nastiness. ”