’  ’ ’   Several hours before the final presidential debate on Wednesday,   Donald Trump told his supporters on social media to tune into his   Facebook, teasing ”live event coverage.” ’ ”   Users who visited Trump’s page at 8:30 found a livestream hosted   by two Trump advisors, Boris Epshteyn and Cliff Sims broadcast by   Right Side Broadcasting Network, a website best known for   its YouTube channel, which has hosted streams of   most Trump rallies and public appearances since July   2015 ” ’   Over the next several hours before and after the debate, the   two hosts interviewed a parade of Trump surrogates, including   Eric Trump and campaign manager Kellyanne Conway. ’ ”   The livestream immediately stoked ongoing speculation about   whether Trump will launch his own television network if he loses   the presidential election, a rumor fueled by his son in law Jared   Kushner’s  with an investment firm   that has backed media startups. ” ’   BuzzFeed declared that the livestream ”,” while Politico asked ”?” ’ ”   Some observers remarked that RSBN, which is already sympathetic   to Trump, may collaborate with the   mogul on the   network’s launch. ” ’ ’ ’  my hunch is that RSBN becomes Trump TV after the election.  ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tSo, Trump’’s official Facebook page is running a live stream from something called ”Right Side Broadcasting”. Trump TV preview?  ’ ”   But while the format of the show may resemble a potential future   media venture, Right Side Broadcasting probably won’t be the   vehicle for that venture. ” ”   RSBN CEO Joe Seales told Business Insider on Thursday that the   speculation about the network becoming Trump’s potential   television venture was unfounded.  ” ’   ”All of the media now apparently thinks we are going to become   Trump TV?! That’’s just crazy (and not true by the way)!” Seales   wrote in an email. ’ ’   Seales said that he thought the broadcast ”went okay” considering   the Trump campaign reached out to his team less than two days   before the debate to arrange a     to traditional cable   post show panels. ’ ’   ”They called us out of the blue and asked if we could do it, so I   flew two guys out there at the last minute,” Seales said. ’ ’   He added: ”Had some issues with audio and a few hiccups here and   there but overall they were very pleased.” ’ ’   The broadcast marks one of the more direct collaborations between   the Trump campaign and RSBN. ’ ’   Pastor Mark Burns, a campaign surrogate who introduced Trump on   numerous occasions during the Republican presidential primary,   anchors a regular video show on the network. And Seales  that Trump ”watches   the network a lot” on his plane, and appreciated that the   network’’s camera operators showed the size of the   Republican presidential nominee’’s crowds, which Trump   frequently demands of other media outlets broadcasting his   rallies. ’ ’   Despite its skeleton crew, RSBN has racked up a number of   dedicated viewers, with over 2 million hits on its most popular   videos. RSBN has over 210, 000 subscribers on YouTube. MSNBC,   by comparison, has 202, 000 subscribers. ’