’  ’ ’   Four years before she was killed, Deborah Danner wrote an essay   referencing the mortal dangers the mentally ill face when   dealing with police. ’ ’   Danner, a    woman suffering from schizophrenia, was    by police in New York on Tuesday after a   confrontation in her apartment.  ’ ’   Police were responding to a call saying Danner was acting   irrationally, and when she tried to attack sergeant Hugh Barry   with a baseball bat, he shot the woman twice in the torso,   killing her, according to police accounts. ’ ”   New York Mayor Bill de Blasio and NYPD commissioner James O’Neill   both condemned the shooting, saying the police did not follow   proper protocol for interacting with emotionally disturbed   people. Investigators will try to determine why Barry did not use   the Taser he was equipped with. Additionally, he should   have waited for more specialized help to arrive, de Blasio   said.  ” ’   In an essay written in 2012, Danner describes her struggles   with schizophrenia  —   the mental disorder she called her ”curse.”   In one chilling passage, Danner pointedly describes the   risks the mentally ill face when interacting with police. ’ ’’ ’   ”We are all aware of the all too frequent news stories about the   mentally ill who come up against law enforcement instead of   mental health professionals and end up dead,” she wrote in   the essay, which was provided to The New York Times by a   lawyer who worked with her.  ’ ’   Danner referenced the 1984 death of  another mentally ill woman from New York who   was killed by police in her apartment.  ’ ’   ”Police were not trained sufficiently in how to engage the   mentally ill in crisis,” Danner wrote. ”This was not an isolated   incident.” ’ ’   Danner wrote that the nature of schizophrenia is ”a complete loss   of control” and lamented the stigma surrounding mental   illness and the damage it inflicts on those who suffer from them. ’ ’   ”Those who don’’t suffer believe the worst of those of us who do.   We’’re treated with suspicion as liars who can’’t be trusted to   control ourselves. We’’re asked to accept less than [our] natural   rights to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.” ’