’  ’ ’   Internet users around the world, but mostly in the US, reported   that some top websites were not loading on Friday morning. ’ ’   The affected sites include Amazon, Twitter, Netflix, Etsy,   Github, and Spotify. ’ ’   The issue is currently ongoing. ’ ’   It was mostly resolved at 9:20 a. m. ET, but at 12:07 p. m. ET, the   issue started to crop up again, according to one of the companies   at the center of the apparent cyber attack.  ’ ’   The issue appears to have something to do with DNS hosts  —     in particular, Dyn, one of the biggest DNS companies. ’ ”   Domain Name Servers are a core part of the internet’s backbone.   They translate what you type into your browser    —  www. businessinsider. com, for example  —   into IP addresses that   computers can understand. ” ”   Dyn said on Friday that it suffering a DDoS attack, or   a distributed denial of service. That basically means hackers are   overwhelming Dyn’s servers with useless data and repeated load   requests, preventing useful data  —   the Twitter IP address, for   example  —   from getting through. ” ”   No group has taken credit for the DDoS attack yet. The   Department of Homeland Security is monitoring the attack,   Politico’s .  ” ”   The second round of attacks seems to effect the West Coast   of the US and Europe as well. If you’re having issues, one way to   address the issue is to switch the DNS servers your computer   looks for to those maintained by OpenDNS. ” ” and here’s .  ” ”   Here’s how the day has unfolded,  the company being attacked.  ” ’ 7:10 a. m. ET:  ’ ’ 8:45 a. m. ET: ’ ’9:36 a. m. ET:  ’ ’  As of 12:06 p. m. ET, the attack had   returned: ’ ’ 12:48 p. m. ET:  ’ ’ 1:53 p. m. ET:  ’ ’ 2:23 p. m. ET:  ’ ’ 2:52 p. m. ET:  ’ ’   CNBC reported that Amazon investigated the issue as well.   ”Amazon & DynDNS investigating internet outage reports on   east coast of U. S. amid reports of major websites not working   properly,” it somehow . ’ ’   Earlier this month, the United States  of DNS to an international     group, a move that had been more than 20 years in the   making.  ’ ”   Here’s a map of reported outages as of 9:20 a. m. ET, via Down   Detector: ” ’  ’ ”   Here’s a map of reported outages as of 2:16 p. m. ET: ” ’  ’ ’ and reports, some of the sites affected   include: ’