’  ’ ’   Nobody seems to know just yet where the massive cyberattack that   made major websites like Twitter and Spotify unavailable Friday   morning originated. ’ ’   But whether the huge distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack   originated in Russia, China, Eastern Europe or right here in the   U. S. it’s a reminder of how vulnerable the infrastructure that   our increasingly interconnected society relies on is, and makes   the increasing willingness of government actors to engage in   cyberattacks extremely worrying. ’ ’   Friday’s attack was aimed at Dyn, a domain name service provider   that channels internet traffic to its clients. The company’s   systems were overwhelmed briefly Friday by huge numbers of   requests made simultaneously with the aim of crowding out   legitimate web traffic. ’ ’   Early Friday morning, the company reported, “we began monitoring   and mitigating a DDoS attack against our Dyn Managed DNS   infrastructure. Some customers may experience increased DNS query   latency and delayed zone propagation during this time. ” ’ ’   “This attack is mainly impacting US East and is impacting Managed   DNS customers in this region,” Dyn reported. An outage map,   produced by the telecommunications company Level 3, confirmed   massive problems across almost the entire eastern half of the   United States. ’ ’   By   engineers had brought the problem largely under   control, the company said, and service had been restored. ’ ’   But while people across the country may be able to tweet and   stream music again, the uncomfortable reality is that attacks   like this one    and perhaps even far more destructive ones that   involve destruction of data, crippling of critical infrastructure   and worse    are an increasingly real threat. ’ ’   Of course, the attack on Dyn may not have been motivated by any   political actors at all. Cybersecurity blogger Brian Krebs, whose   own blog was the target of a massive DDOS attack just a few weeks   ago, noted, “The attack on DYN comes just hours after DYN   researcher Doug Madory presented a talk on DDoS attacks in   Dallas, Texas at a meeting of the North American Network   Operators Group (NANOG). ” That at least raises the possibility   that the attack might simply have been hackers trying to   embarrass a   security expert. ’ ’  ’ ’   But regardless of the genesis of this particular attack, the   willingness of the Russian government to actively interfere in   the U. S. presidential election, to cite the most obvious example,   has signaled a dramatic change in the role government   cyberwarriors are likely to play in the future. The persistent   leaking of hacked emails and other data, stolen from people with   ties to the Democratic Party, may be unprecedented, but isn’t   likely to remain unique. ’ ’   The issue even found its way into the final presidential debate,   in which Hillary Clinton, the Democratic presidential nominee,   pointed out the unanimous assessment of U. S. intelligence   agencies which, she said, “all concluded that these espionage   attacks, these cyberattacks, come from the highest levels of the   Kremlin. And they are designed to influence our election. ” ’ ’   And the U. S. is expected to take some sort of retaliatory action,   as Vice President Joe Biden said on Meet the   Press last Sunday. ’ ’   “We’re sending a message    we have the capacity to do it,” Biden   said. ’ ”   “He’ll know it,” Biden continued, referring to Russian President   Vladimir Putin. “It will be at the time of our choosing. And   under the circumstances that have the greatest impact. ” ” ’   While the U. S. can hardly avoid mounting some sort of response,   the worry is that it could lead to an escalating series of   retaliatory actions and frequent disruptions that could play   havoc with an economy that has become dependent on unfettered,   reliable connectivity. ’ ’   During the Cold War, for better or worse, there was an effective   brake on escalation in the form of nuclear weapons. Russia and   the U. S. tried to avoid direct conflict, in large part out of   fear that military engagement might spiral out of control,   leading to the very real possibility of mutual destruction. ’ ’   In cyberwarfare, so far at least, there is no obvious equivalent   to an intercontinental nuclear missile. And while that’s probably   a good thing, on balance, it also means that there is no obvious   line that everyone involved has an interest not only in not   crossing, but not even approaching.  ’