’Businesses are nervous about the US presidential election.’ ”Based on executive commentary during their firm’s quarterly conference calls, a lot of CEOs and CFOs have a sharp eye on the contest between Republican Donald Trump and Democrat Hillary Clinton.” ”As we’ve noted before, companies typically find a seemingly   event  —   Brexit, the weather, and so on  —   to help pin down just why they did not meet expectations or why they could have done better.” ’While this may or may not be a legitimate explanation for lackluster numbers, it is certainly a popular one. Consumer sentiment has remained resilient, though a number of business have noted some slowing in various industry surveys over the last few weeks.’ ’We went through the earnings calls of firms reporting their financial results and found that many of them pegged consumer uncertainty or business uncertainty for their results.’ ”We’ve got a partial list of some of the companies  —   from steel makers to investment banks to mattress makers  —   that have cited this excuse in just the last week.” ”We’ve included a description of the company and the commentary from their earnings call below. Check them out:” ’Ticker: DNKN’ ”Company Description: Restaurant and food brands that owns Dunkin’ Donuts stores.” ’Executive Commentary: ”What is driving franchisees towards the lower end is several factors, and I’’ve described it, put it together as uncertainty, as uncertainty over the general election, Senate, obviously, the House, and local elections.’ ’And it was interesting earlier this year  —   and I have a feeling I’’ve said this on an earlier earnings call  —   I was with some franchisees in one state that I won’’t name. And I’’ve said to them, look, you’’re going to open one store this year, why don’’t you open two? And their response was uncertainty, regulation, we don’’t know where the minimum wage is going. There was just so much uncertainty,” said CEO Nigel Travis’ ’Ticker: LHO’ ’Company Description: A hotel operator with 46 properties across the US.’ ’Executive Commentary: ”’ ’Ticker: PHM’ ’Company Description: PulteGroup is the third largest homebuilder in the US’ ’Executive Commentary: ”My experience from spending a number of years in the field in our operations is anytime we’’re this close to the end of an election cycle. I think the general public is trying to calculate and figure out what the impact will be of a change in power moving from one side of the political power grid to the other. What that will do to their earning power potential? What that will do to job growth? What that will do to the stock market, et cetera?’ ’My general sense is that folks maybe pause and wait and see. We actually    as you saw from our   growth in our absorption paces, we’’re quite happy    very happy, in fact, with what we saw in the third quarter. So, I don’’t know that we saw any kind of noticeable impacts. I think I probably speak for the collective country and say I think it will be nice once this election cycle is over in a few short weeks,” said CEO Ryan Marshall.’ ’Ticker: SON’ ’Company description: Sonoco is a maker of packaging such as cans and boxes for consumer products.’ ’Executive Commentary: ”’ ’Ticker: STLD’ ’Company Description: An   steel producer.’ ’Executive Commentary: ”’ ’Ticker: GPI’ ’Company Description: The   automotive dealer in the US, based in Houston, TX.’ ’Executive Commentary: ”And I think there’’s some factor that will gain some clarity after we get a presidential election outcome, and then we’’ll see what the mood of the public is, because so much of consumer confidence are psychological and most experts would contend that the current electoral process is creating some distraction,” said CEO Earl Hesterberg.’ ’Ticker: DHR’ ’Company Description: Danaher produces industrial equipment from automotive tools to dental radiography machines.’ ’Executive Commentary: ”’ ’Ticker: BJRI’ ’Company Description: A casual dining chain with more than 170 locations across the US.’ ’Executive Commentary: ”’ ’Ticker: CP’ ’Company Description: One of the largest rail operators, especially freight trains, in North America.’ ’Executive Commentary: ”’ ’Ticker: SCSS’ ’Company Description: The maker of Sleep Number and Comfortaire mattresses and bedding accessories.’ ’Executive Commentary: ”’ ’Ticker: MS’ ”Company Description: One of the world’s largest investment banks.” ’Executive Commentary: ”’ ’Ticker: BAC’ ”Company Description: One of the world’s largest retail and investment banks.” ’Executive Commentary: ”’ ’Ticker: OMC’ ’Company Description: A global marketing and corporate communications firm with subsidiaries such as BBDO.’ ’Executive Commentary: ”’