’  ’ ’   Internet users around the world, but mostly in the US, reported   that some top websites were not loading on Friday morning. ’ ’   The affected sites include Amazon, Twitter, Netflix, Etsy,   Github, and Spotify. ’ ’   It was mostly resolved at 9:20 a. m. ET, but at 12:07 p. m. ET, the   issue started to crop up again, according to Dyn, one of the   companies at the center of the apparent cyber attack. ’ ’   At 4:16 p. m. ET, Dyn said that it was facing a third wave of   attacks, . ’ ’   Around 6:20 p. m. ET, Dyn said that the incident had been   resolved, . ’ ’   The issue appears to have something to do with DNS hosts  —   in   particular, Dyn, one of the biggest DNS companies. ’ ”   Domain Name Servers are a core part of the internet’s backbone.   They translate what you type into your browser    —  www. businessinsider. com, for example  —   into IP addresses that   computers can understand. ” ”   Dyn said on Friday that it suffered a DDoS attack, or a   distributed denial of service. That basically means hackers are   overwhelming Dyn’s servers with useless data and repeated load   requests, preventing useful data  —   the Twitter IP address, for   example  —   from getting through. ” ’   ”The purpose of this attack is to overload the service in any way   possible and make it stop working or be unreachable. In this case   it was not Twitter or Github that got overloaded, those services   work totally fine, but a service allowing you to reach them got   overloaded,” Adam Surak, site reliability engineer  told Business   Insider. ’ ’   No group has taken credit for the DDoS attack yet, and Dyn says   no attacker has contacted it. ’ ”   The Department of Homeland Security is monitoring the attack,   Politico’s . The FBI is also investigating, . ” ’   The attack does not seem to be   or directed, a   senior US intelligence official . ’ ’   Dyn says that the attacks are ”well planned and executed, coming   from tens of millions of IP addresses at the same time.” One of   the sources of the attack is   products   like printers, DVRs, and appliances, often called the ”internet   of things.” ’ ’ by hacking the internet of things   was released earlier this month. ’ ’   WikiLeaks says the attack is being done in support of its founder   Julian Assange.  a writer who was the first person to be hit with   a internet of things DDoS, believes that criminals are extorting   internet infrastructure companies and threatening them with DDoS. ’ ’ tells him that there was   ”chatter in the cybercrime underground” discussing a plan to   attack Dyn. ’ ’   Some people online seem to think this  and  to use OpenDNS can help mitigate the   problems. ’ ”   Here’s how the day unfolded,  the company being attacked. ” ’ 7:10 a. m. ET: ’ ’ 8:45 a. m. ET: ’ ’9:36 a. m. ET: ’ ’ As of 12:06 p. m. ET, the attack had returned: ’ ’ 12:48 p. m. ET:  ’ ’ 1:53 p. m. ET:  ’ ’ 2:23 p. m. ET:  ’ ’ 2:52 p. m. ET:  ’ ’ 3:44 p. m. ET:  ’ ’ 4:37 p. m. ET:  ’ ’ 4:59 p. m. ET:  ’ ’ 6:20 p. m. ET: ’ ’   CNBC reported that Amazon investigated the issue as well,   although it eventually found the issue to be with the Dyn attack.   ”Amazon & DynDNS investigating internet outage reports on   east coast of U. S. amid reports of major websites not working   properly,” it . ’ ’   Earlier this month, the United States  of DNS to an international     group, a move that had been more than 20 years in the   making.  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’