’  ’ ’   For almost 10 years, Google promised to protect users’ privacy   from advertisers by keeping personally identifiable information   about its users, gleaned from Gmail accounts and other Google   services, separate from its subsidiary DoubleClick’s database of     records. ’ ’   But the company quietly updated its privacy policy in June to say   that users’ activities on other sites “may be associated with   your personal information,” ProPublica reported Friday. Google’s   previous privacy policy, which is literally crossed through in   front of its new one in Google’s new privacy policy, had pledged   to “not combine DoubleClick cookie information with personally   identifiable information” without users’ consent. ’ ’  ’ ’   Google purchased DoubleClick, an online advertising company, in   April 2007 for $3. 1 billion in cash, outbidding Microsoft in a     battle. ’ ’   DoubleClick uses cookies to collect and store data about users   from their browsing history to best place their clients’   advertisements. ’ ’   For example, a user who visits the sports section of a news site   will be more likely to be shown ads for game tickets than ads for   makeup. ’ ’   ProPublica’s Julia Angwin notes that at the time of the 2007   purchase, Google’s privacy policy stated that DoubleClick’s     technology will rely only on   “   information,” which had allowed   online ad tracking to remain anonymous. ’ ’   Angwin writes: ’ ’     The practical result of the change is that the DoubleClick ads     that follow people around on the web may now be customized to     them based on the keywords they used in their Gmail. It also     means that Google could now, if it wished to, build a complete     portrait of a user by name, based on everything they write in     email, every website they visit and the searches they conduct.   ’ ’   Existing Google users were prompted to opt in to the new policy.   But it was enabled by default for new users. ’ ’   You can view what Google thinks your interests are, and choose to   opt out of personalized ads, here. In its privacy policy, Google   states that it does not sell any personal information, such as   names, email addresses and payment information. ’ ’  ’ ’   This summer’s change follows a   trend of decreasing   privacy standards for Internet users. In 2000, the Federal Trade   Commission launched an investigation of DoubleClick’s handling of   sensitive user information after it purchased Abacus Direct, a   company that sells consumer purchasing data. Although the FTC   dropped the investigation in January 2002 and determined there   had been no violation, DoubleClick sold its subsidiary at a loss. ’ ’   And then in 2012, Google announced that it would share data   between other Google products, but still kept the data separate   from DoubleClick. Unlike this most recent update, the 2012 change   was mandatory for all Google users. ’ ’   So how will this affect your life? Probably not much, even if   you’ve opted in to the new change, given that your Gmail content   was already fair game for ads displayed within Gmail. ’ ’   But we are now one step closer to a world, imagined in Slate by   Evan Selinger and Shaun Foster, in which advertisements on the   street and screens morph into images of your own avatar using or   wearing the product. ’