’  ’ ”   Trenton Copeland was just 28 when he was told he’d spend the   rest of his life in prison for a cocaine offense. He   froze in shock the moment the judge read out the sentence. ” ’   It seemed like an impossibly severe penalty. ’ ’   ”It was almost like the world just stopped completely,” his   mother Annie Fray told Business Insider. ”Life in prison,   and he didn’’t kill anybody, for drugs? That is very devastating.” ’ ”Because of his prior drug offenses,   Copeland’s crime carried a mandatory life sentence without   possibility of parole as per federal law  —   policies which   have since been changed in certain cases, and would likely leave   Copeland with a less severe punishment were he sentenced today. ” ”   Now, Copeland’s only hope of securing a release is pinned on   President Obama and the remaining three months of his   presidency.  ” ”   Like thousands of federal inmates serving time for     drug offenses, Copeland is waiting to see if he will be granted a   commutation  —   a reduction of a prison sentence    —   before time runs out.  Over the last 8 months,   the Obama Administration has granted dozens and   sometimes hundreds of prisoners’ commutations at a time in   an unprecedented use of the president’s constitutional clemency   power.  ” ’   Early in October, Obama commuted the sentences of more than 100   inmates, bringing his total to 774 commutations meted out over   his   term. It’’s more than the amount granted by the   previous 11 presidents combined, and more than his successor will   likely grant. Democratic nominee  whether she will make   clemency the priority that Obama has, and her opponent  for the initiative,   calling the nonviolent drug offenders whose sentences were   commuted ”bad dudes.” ’ ’   In August, he  which reviews clemency   applications and recommends them to the president, will act on   ”every single drug petition” it has. As of October, 13, 275   petitions remain pending. ’ ”   Urgency is mounting as the weeks go by, according to lawyers and   advocates involved in the presidential clemency   process. Clemency Project 2014, a countrywide network of   lawyers who vet and forward inmates’ petitions to the Pardon   Attorney, has vowed to keep filing inmates’ petitions until the   last moment possible  —   so far, the group has whittled down some   33, 000 applicants to around 1, 700 petitions they deem   viable.  ” ’  ’ ’ said     communicates daily with hundreds of inmates and their family   members regarding their petitions, according to Povah, who   herself was granted a commutation by President Bill Clinton in   2000. ’ ’   ”The pressure is incredible, and it’’s increasing exponentially,”   she told Business Insider. ”People are starting to   panic.” ’ ’   A ”once in a lifetime” opportunity ’ ’  ’ ”   Like the inmates whose applications are still pending,   Barrington feared that his petition wouldn’t be acted on before   Obama left office, even though his lawyers filed it more than a   year ago.  ” ’  ’ ’    ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’   ”You have a President recognizing the mistakes Congress made in   the 90’’s, and also recognizing how hard it is to get real prison   reform passed ’ ”   Barrington’s lawyers knew when they filed his petition that an   immediate release was unlikely. Inmates must typically have   served at least 10 years before a petition is granted. Barrington   was only convicted in 2008. ” ’   Yet his lawyers believed Barrington had a strong case for   clemency  —   even the judge who had originally sentenced him agreed   that mandatory life was overly harsh. They filed his petition   seeking an immediate release, but offered an alternate suggestion   of a   sentence  —   ”a world of difference” from a life   sentence, according to Daniel Ruzumna, one of three attorneys   from the firm Patterson Bellknap Webb & Tyler who worked on   Barrington’’s petition. ’ ’   ”He’’s always been one to admit his mistakes, and I think he   recognized that some punishment was appropriate  —   just certainly   not a life sentence. And that’’s thankfully what President Obama   agreed with,” Ruzumna told Business Insider. ’ ’   Far from being disappointed or surprised at his delayed release,   Barrington said he had anticipated it. ’ ’   ”For myself, I’’m just happy to have a release date. I know how   lucky I am. I have met so many guys in my situation that wish   they would have taken a plea of 20 or 30 years.” ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’he clemency program is still only a temporary,   insufficient solution to the wider problem of mass incarceration   in the federal system, lawyers and criminal justice experts say. ’ ”   Of the approximately 211, 000 people locked up in federal   prisons, nearly half are imprisoned for drug offenses,   according to . Obama’s 774 sentence commutations,   therefore, have affected less than 1% of all federal inmates   convicted of drug crimes. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’ has received   political blowback for appearing to interfere with sentencing   laws in a manner that bypasses both judges and lawmakers. In   September, for instance, Congressman Bob Goodlatte ( .)   Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, called on Obama   to  for inmates who ”pose a threat to   America’s public safety.” ’ ’   ”He has effectively set himself up as a judge, reviewing   thousands of cases where they’ve been prosecuted, convicted,   sentenced and appealed beyond the district court level. And he’’s   undercut all that work by commuting their sentences,” Goodlatte   told USA Today. ’ ”   As for Trenton Copeland and his family, their only hope is that   he, too, will benefit from Obama’s unusual use of presidential   clemency before his successor takes over. ” ”   Like Barrington, Copeland hasn’t yet served a full decade on his   life sentence. His attorney Brittany Byrd has sought a   commutation that would leave him serving a   sentence   instead, which she argues is a more appropriate punishment for a     crime he has expressed genuine remorse for. ” ”   Byrd said she knows Copeland wouldn’t take a second chance   from the president for granted. ” ’   ”He is set to die in prison for a   drug offense.   Clemency from President Obama would literally save his   life,” Byrd told Business Insider. ”It would mean for   Trenton that his life means something.”  ’