’  ’ ’     dollar startup Magic Leap, which is building a     augmented reality headset, is currently in a   legal battle with the engineer who started its first Silicon   Valley office. ’ ’   Court filings reveal new secrets about the company,   including a west coast software team in disarray,   insufficient hardware for testing, and a secret skunkworks team   devoted to getting patents and designing new prototypes  —   before   its first product has even hit the market. ’ ’   The company believes that Adrian    and Gary Bradski, two VPs at Magic Leap, tried to rip off its   technology and talent to start a new robotics startup.  ’ ’   Kaehler and Bradski, who sued the company for wrongful   termination earlier this year, say that   Magic Leap unfairly robbed them of their shares in Magic Leap and   broke their employment contracts. ’ ’   Magic Leap countered by suing the pair for misappropriation of   trade secrets.  ’ ’   While the suit could soon be settled  —   a settlement   conference is scheduled for Friday  —   documents and emails filed   in the case reveal a major disconnect between the     Magic Leap and its satellite offices in Silicon Valley.  ’ ’  ’ ’   Magic Leap is one of the most mysterious and hyped startups in   tech. ’ ’   The company has raised a massive amount of venture money  —   $1. 39   billion  —   from nearly every top technology investor, including   Google, Alibaba, KPCB, and Andreessen Horowitz. It has not yet   shipped a product, and people who have tried the prototypes   are required to sign legal documents that prevent them from   discussing them. ’ ”   Magic Leap’s still unrevealed product will be a set of AR   glasses, according to testimony in the lawsuit. The glasses will   be attached to a   computer, according to a source   with knowledge of Magic Leap’s product.  ” ’   The highly anticipated augmented reality glasses will   superimpose computer images into the real world. (As opposed to   virtual reality, which immerses the viewer in a     world.) ’ ’   The company was reportedly valued at $4. 5 billion   in February.  ’ ’   Magic Leap declined to comment, citing pending   litigation.  ’ ’   Earlier this year, ’ ’  ’ ’   Magic Leap paints Bradski and  as disgruntled employees,   even producing an email that Bradski sent to Kaehler in August   2015 from his Magic Leap work email address:  ’ ’   In this note, R likely refers to Rony Abovitz, the CEO of Magic   Leap, and compares him unfavorably to former Apple CEO Steve   Jobs, who was known for being difficult to work with.  ’ ’   Abovitz says that Bradski and Kaehler were planning to start   their startup for a year before they quit. ”Dr. Bradski did   not tell me what his future plans were going to be, and led me to   believe that he was excited about being at Magic Leap,”   Abovitz wrote.  ’ ”   Magic Leap’s lawyer, David Lundmark, implies that Bradski wanted   more power in the company, and was primarily worried about his   personal income, even though he personally chose the location for   the company’s Mountain View and Sunnyvale offices.  ” ’   ”Dr. Bradski told me more than once that he did not have   confidence in the leadership or processes of Magic Leap,”   Lundmark wrote. ”Dr. Bradski expressed to me a lack of confidence   in the proposition that certain     milestones, such as a secondary offering and bonus program, were   going to happen in a timely manner.” ’ ’  ’ ’   He notes that when Kaehler received his bonuses and liquidated   stock in a secondary offering, he put a sticky note on his   monitor that said ”gone for two weeks.”  ’ ’ ’ ”   Magic Leap is unusual among   tech startups   because it’s based in Plantation, Florida, where its CEO,   Rony Abovitz, grew up and lives. Most tech startups are   concentrated in Silicon Valley, New York, or a handful of other   tech hubs like Boston, Seattle, or Austin, Texas. ” ’   Bradski had a good reputation before joining Magic Leap  —   he   founded OpenCV, an   computer vision library in wide   use, and previously founded a robotics startup that was   bought by Google. He founded the West Coast office for Magic Leap   in 2013, growing it to over 100 employees. ’ ”   According to Bradski’s testimony, as well as   other sources close to the company, the Florida   location has made it hard to recruit and retain software   talent, especially in artificial intelligence. Bradski claims he   had to promise hires not to move them to Florida. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”What is not recognized . .. is just how many hours I spent in   ’’worker therapy’’ with so many employees who expressed deep   dissatisfaction with the ’’us v. them’’ mentality that existed in   the way the Florida executives tried to absentee manage the   California talent,”  wrote in   testimony.  ’ ’   ”From my familiarity with the spectrum of engineering work being   done in the company, the majority of the best work was being done   on the West Coast,” he continued.  ’ ’   ”I spent a lot of time dealing with convincing disgruntled and   frustrated employees to stay,” Bradski wrote. One carrot that he   used was a Magic   secondary market stock buy, which   would allow employees to turn their options into cash.  ’ ’   In an private email to an investor uncovered by Magic Leap,   Bradski explains that he will try to help hire and retain   employees at the Mountain View office, but ”hell, many are   leaving anyhow.”  ’ ”   Sources also tell Business Insider that Abovitz’s attention   is primarily focused on Florida operations.  ” ’   So why is Magic Leap based in Florida instead of Silicon Valley? ’ ’   One theory, posited by Kaehler: ”It seemed to me and was   expressed to me by many employees in various language that the   East Coast operation existed for the pleasure of senior people   who preferred to live in that [income]   state,”   he wrote in testimony seen by Business Insider.  ’ ’  ’ ”   Access to Magic Leap’s glasses is closely controlled,   and testers must sign a legal   agreement promising   not to talk about them before they can get a demo of how   they work. ” ”   Magic Leap employees in California don’t have enough prototypes   to do their work, according to the suit.  ” ’   ”Through Summer 2014, Magic Leap’’s actual hardware team based in   Florida seemed to be having difficulties making AR headsets for   use by Magic Leap personnel,” Bradski wrote. ’ ’   He says his personal project could not get started until the   company ”built enough of its AR glasses for most employees to   regularly use them   .” ’ ’   ”We were hardware starved in Magic Leap West until the day I   left,” he writes, and says that at one point he asked Florida for   ”  more headsets” to get ”common headset usage started” at   Magic Leap’’s West Coast office. ’ ’   ”This hardware has still not arrived as far as I know,” he wrote.   In a legal filing,  ’ ’  ’ ’   Last fall, Magic Leap assigned Bradski to a new skunkworks team. ’ ’   Other leaders of the ”N+1” team include Brian Schowengerdt,   founder and Chief Science Officer, and Neal Stephenson, famous     author and . ’ ”   We previously reported that Stephenson and Schowengerdt are not   located at the company’s Florida headquarters, and work out of a   satellite office in Seattle. ” ’   ”Magic Leap’s N+1 projects look to ’’invent the future,’’ by   developing the future applications of Magic Leap’s technology,”   Abovitz wrote.  ’ ’   According to an email sent by Abovitz, the N+1 team was focused   on filing patents, creating prototypes, and potentially   publishing scientific papers.  ’ ’   However, Bradski saw the new assignment as something of   a demotion, and he complains in the suit that he did not   have enough staff underneath him to do these special projects. ’ ’   Before he left, Bradski focused on building a deep learning team   as well as working on embedded hardware for computer   vision.  ’ ’   A settlement conference between the two former Magic Leap VPs and   the company is scheduled for later this week.  ’ ’ Know anything about Magic Leap? Email the author at   kleswing@businessinsider. com. Anonymity guaranteed. ’