’  ’ ’ Paul Schrader has spent his career delving into the dark side   of the human condition. ’ ’ Starting out as a screenwriter, he instantly became a star by   writing Martin Scorsese’’s 1976 classic ”Taxi Driver.” That   started a long collaboration with Scorsese, continuing with   ”Raging Bull,” ”The Last Temptation of Christ,” and ”Bringing Out   the Dead.” ’ ’ Schrader has tested audiences even more as a director, making   haunting dramas like ”American Gigolo”; the 1980s ”Cat People”   remake; ”Affliction”; and ”The Canyons,” which is known  than what’’s   on screen. (Schrader said he isn’’t mad  —   the movie sold for more   than it cost to make.) ’ ’ For his latest movie, ”Dog Eat Dog,” which opens in theaters   November 4 and is on video on demand on November 11, Schrader   teamed with Nicolas Cage and Willem Dafoe to create a bizarre,   ultraviolent dark comedy  —   extremely dark and extremely violent  —     that is perhaps the boldest work Schrader has ever done. ’ ” Business Insider had a candid conversation with Schrader   about the current movie business, how Cage surprised him when the   actor suddenly read his lines imitating Humphrey Bogart, and why   he’ll never watch a    cut of a Scorsese   movie. ” ”Jason Guerrasio: You’ve said while doing press   for this movie that you had final cut on it. At this point in   your career, can you make a movie any other way? ” ’Paul Schrader: I never had final cut earlier on   in my career, and I never needed it because you were always   making movies with people who like movies and who understood   movies. And yes, you had disagreements, and yes, you went back   and forth, but at the end of the day you would come to an   agreement. ’ ”   Now in the last 10 years or so, we have started to see this   influx of money into the entertainment business from people who   don’t necessarily like movies, watch movies, or know movies. You   can find yourself in a room with people who are financing the   film who don’t watch movies themselves. Once you start to realize   that you could be dealing with folks like that, then you start to   think how can I protect myself? These people have a formula in   their heads that is based on another time and place, and it’s not   the time and place in which you’re making your movie. ” ’Guerrasio: So you take a read on the people   involved and decide if you say you want final cut? ’ ’Schrader: You try to. Every artist will tell you   this: Every time you get     you say, ”I’’m never going to get       that way again.” And you don’’t. But they come up with a   new way to     you. ’ ’  ’ ’Guerrasio: One of the things that is embedded in   my brain about your movie is Nicolas Cage impersonating Humphrey   Bogart by the end of the movie. Was that written in the script? ’ ’Schrader: That was not in the book. (The   movie is loosely based on a book of the same title by Edward   Bunker.) That was not in the script. The book and the script   were not comic either. ’ ”   But Nic had this idea for his character who thought himself   somewhat foolishly as Humphrey Bogart, so he was doing Bogart   things, which I wasn’t that crazy about, but I wasn’t going to   pick a fight over it. I could always cut it out. ” ’   But there was this whole nagging issue of the last scene. We had   talked about it in rehearsals, but he wasn’’t really satisfied. He   came back to me again while we were shooting and he said, ”I   don’’t get this last scene. I don’’t understand why he’’s still   alive. I don’’t understand what he’’s doing with this black   couple.” And I said, ”Well, maybe he’’s not still alive. Maybe   it’’s the afterlife.” And that’’s when he started to come up with   the Bogart idea. ’ ’   He said, ”Well, I’’ve been fooling around with Bogart. If he is   actually dead, then he can become Bogart and he can save the   black couple.” He doesn’’t exactly pull that off, but that’’s how   that evolved. ’ ’   And he kind of stunned this on me on the day we were shooting   that. We went through it and all of a sudden he’’s doing it as   Bogie and I was like, ”Whoa, you sure you want to do that?” And   he said, ”Look, you’’ve been telling me for five weeks that we   have to be bold. This is the only way you can do this genre   today.” He said, ”I think this is a bold choice.” I said, ”Yeah,   I think it is, too. Let’’s do it.” ’ ’  ’ ”Guerrasio: For a movie that I think was intended   to shock, it’s not the violence that stays with me  —   it’s the   ending. ” ’Schrader: Yeah, we jump into a meta movie. But   my feeling is how you deal with a crime film in 2016 is a jazz   riff. You try to stay ahead of the viewer. You don’’t quite know   where you’’re going, and so one of the things that’’s unique about   ”Dog Eat Dog” is that it’’s a genre beyond predictability. The   three   doing their last job, etc. There’’s a lot of genre   tropes in there. On the other hand, it’’s an unpredictable take on   a predictable genre. ’ ’Guerrasio: Is Cage still a bankable star so that   when he’’s attached you have a ”go” picture? ’ ”Schrader: Nic gets your movie financed. That’s   the good news. The bad news is that he eats up most of your   budget in the process of getting it financed because you end up   basically paying him the budget. But he still commands those big   numbers. ” ”   I mean, the distributor of this film told me that all of the work   we have done  —   the film festivals, all the press, the public   appearances, the theatrical release  —   it all has one goal, which   is to be No. 1 VOD on the first VOD weekend, because there is so   much product out there on demand that if you’re not in the top   five it doesn’t matter anymore because people can’t get through   it all. So you got to try to be No. 1 on VOD release. ” ”Guerrasio: But do you ever see what those   engagement numbers really are? Will the film’s distributor, RLJ   Entertainment, disclose them to you and be transparent? ” ’Schrader: I talked to RLJ about this. We’’ll see   how transparent they are. They promise to be transparent. I made   ”The Canyons” a while back and we   that for a     dollars and then we sold it to IFC for $1 million,   so we all made money and it was all fun and dandy. But of course,   at the end, that film could go on and make money for the next 20   years [through streaming] and we’’ll never see a statement. ’ ’  ’ ’Guerrasio: And  —   one way to stretch a dollar for   this movie  —   you yourself played one of the characters. Which was   something done at the last second, right? ’ ’Schrader: Yeah, Marty [Scorsese] was going to do   it, and then the date we wanted him fell on his birthday, and he   didn’’t want to come. I remember saying to the producer, ”Even if   Marty had come, we don’’t even have enough for his airfare   anymore.” Because this was at the end of the shooting schedule.   So then there was the option of hiring a local, and I didn’’t want   to do that, and Cage was pressuring me to do the role myself. And   I thought, I may be bad, but I won’’t be boring. ’ ’Guerrasio: But you also asked Quentin Tarantino,   Abel Ferrara, and Christopher Walken, right? ’ ’Schrader: Yeah. I even asked Rupert Everett to   do it as a transgender Cleveland gangster, and he was willing to   do it, but then his Oscar Wilde project [”The Happy Prince”]   intervened. ’ ’Guerrasio: I’’ve heard you say in the past that   your films  not ”exorcise” them. ’ ”Schrader: Not every one. But that’s one of the   things they can do, yes. ” ’Guerrasio: Is that still the case today? ’ ”Schrader: You need to have a film like that   maybe every four or five years. I don’t think every film can be   like that. ” ’Guerrasio: So when was the last one like that   for you? ’ ’Schrader: Well, that’’s this. I had written a   film called ”,” which I also directed and it started Nic Cage. And   when I handed in the director’’s cut, they took it away. ’ ’Guerrasio: So getting screwed over again. ’ ’Schrader: Yeah, there was a point I wanted to   make with this movie  —   I wanted to make a point that I can make a   film with Nic Cage that people want to see. ’ ’  ’ ’Guerrasio: You mentioned ”The Canyons,” a movie   that is known more for  while making the movie. Was   that a rebound moment for you, making that movie? ’ ’Schrader: It wasn’’t much of a rebound; it was an   experiment. It was exhausting, and there’’s a lot of sanctimonious     at poor Lindsay from the media. ”Bad girl, bad   girl.” It’’s like all these people wagging their finger at Donald   Trump while selling publications. ’ ”Guerrasio: So the media played up incidents in   the making of the movie that didn’t define how that movie was   made? ” ’Schrader: No.  was there on the set every day, so all   that stuff, though not very flattering, it was true. Maybe some   of it a little exaggerated, but most of it true. But every film   is a drama for a different reason. ’ ’Guerrasio: Have you seen Scorsese’’s     ”Silence” yet? ’ ”Schrader: No. He’s really hit the mattresses   because they’ll be mixing all next month and it opens in December   and it’s three and a half hours long. I see Marty a lot, but I   would never want to be in that position to be an early viewer of   any of his films. ” ”Guerrasio: So even in the past, he doesn’t call   on you? ” ’Schrader: No. I would be uncomfortable. ’ ’ ’