’  ’ ’   The media outlet owned by Fox News contributor Laura Ingraham   promoted a conspiracy theory Tuesday that posits the Clintons   have been involved in the murders of several political   operatives. ’ ’   Ingraham’s news website, LifeZette,  titled “Clinton Body Count,”   which featured an unidentified correspondent. ’ ’   “The Clintons have a long history of people in their inner circle   dying under mysterious circumstances,” the   correspondent said at the outset of the video. ’ ’   The LifeZette correspondent continued: “And since the 2016   election cycle began, at least three more people with connections   to Bill and Hillary have joined that list, sparking a renewed   interest in the   body count of people who allegedly got   in the way of the Clinton machine. ” ’ ’   The video suggested without evidence that John F. Kennedy Jr. ’s   plane crash and Vince Foster’s suicide were perhaps orchestrated   by the Clintons. ’ ’’ ’   Foul play was ruled out by the authorities in both cases, which   was seemingly not enough to convince LifeZette. ’ ”   “’Til this day, questions remain surrounding these and other   deaths of people who were once close to the Clintons,” the   correspondent concluded at the end of the video. “Questions   that will probably remain unanswered. ” ” ’   The correspondent appeared to be Augusta Cassada, whose LinkedIn   page lists her as a director of digital operations at LifeZette. ’ ’   It wasn’’t the first time the outlet has dredged up conspiracy   theories about the Clintons. In September, the site published a    that insinuated that it was ”hard to   deny that being close with the Clintons could kill you.” ’ ’   Neither Ingraham nor Cassada responded to requests for comment. ’ ”   As a Fox News contributor, Ingraham frequently appears on the   network and often fills in for top talent like Bill O’Reilly. The   talk show host is a devout supporter of Clinton’s opponent,   Donald Trump. A Fox News spokesperson did not immediately respond   to a request for comment. ”