’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’    ’ ”   Why are healthcare organizations beginning to embrace the   technology? Well, for starters, it’s because there’s more demand   than ever to make healthcare more efficient and effective. And a   lot of this demand stems from rising healthcare costs and   regulations, Greg Petroff, GE’s chief experience officer for   digital, told Business Insider. ” ’  ’ ’   For example, the Affordable Care Act signed into law in 2012   implemented a penalty for hospitals that have high readmission   rates. This means hospitals have to make sure their patients are   in a stable condition before they leave so they don’t return. But   it also means that hospitals are having to do more with the same   amount of resources. ’ ’   To help meet these new demands, hospitals are using IOT solutions   to capture and analyze data that enables hospital operators to   make smarter decisions that can help save money and lives,   Petroff said. ’ ’   “There are a host of things in a healthcare environment that are   managed on a daily basis. This includes medical equipment,   employees, and patients,” Petroff said. “In that environment we   can use these technologies . .. to determine how to improve   the quality of care, time to service, and to provide care with   less costs. ” ’ ’   One way GE has helped hospitals accomplish this is by bringing   medical equipment online.  ’ ’   For example, GE partnered with a hospital in New York to connect   and track hospital beds using sensors. These sensors enabled   hospital operators to tell when a bed was free and helped reduce   emergency room wait times by as much as four hours, Petroff said. ’ ’   And by connecting medical equipment, hospitals can greatly   reduce the chances of critical machinery breaking down when it’s   needed most. ’ ’   Philips Healthcare, for example, recently rolled out an IOT   solution called   which is a   solution,   that virtually monitors the health of its machines so that they   never suffer an outage.  ’ ’   “We want to make it to the point where Philips has zero downtime.   So our systems are operational all the time and are running at   peak performance,” John Romero, a support specialist at Philips   Healthcare, told Business Insider. ’ ”   When Philip’s   system detects that something is working   abnormally in the machine, it sends a text message to an engineer   so that repairs can be made before serious damage is   done. The   system is working so well that Philips is   exploring using the technology for other pieces of medical   machinery.  ” ’   While   is helping hospitals and other healthcare providers   avoid expensive repairs and replacements, it more importantly is   helping ensure patients are getting the care they need when they   need it, Romero said.  ’ ’   ”It’’s (IOT) all about   monitoring,” Romero said. ”And I   really think in the end as healthcare providers and hospitals, we   really need to put our patients at the center of all of our   thinking.” ’ ’ ’ ’     ’ ’ ’ ’Get updates in your inbox.’ ’Subscribe to Digital Industry Insider and never miss an update!’