’  ’ ’   Erica Garner, whose father died in a chokehold by a New York City   police officer in 2014, scolded the Clinton campaign in a series   of tweets Thursday over hacked internal emails published by   WikiLeaks that mentioned her and her father. ’ ’ exchanged between several Clinton staffers, had   discussed a draft of a Clinton   on gun violence that was   eventually published in the New York Daily News in late March. ’ ’   ”I’’m troubled by the revelation that you and this campaign   actually discussed ’’using’’ Eric Garner   …     Why would you want to   ’’use’’ my dad?” Garner tweeted. ’ ’   ”Why was the Clinton campaign searching for dead people to   capitalize on? Why wouldn’’t you call it police violence?” ’ ”   Garner appears to be referring to an email sent by Clinton   spokesman Nick Merrill that questioned why Eric Garner hadn’t   been included in the  ’s draft. ” ’   ”I know we have Erica Garner issues but we don’’t want to mention   Eric at all? I can see her coming after us for leaving him out of   the piece,” Merrill’’s email said. ’ ’   ”Eric Garner not included because not killed by gun violence,”   senior policy adviser Maya Harris responded. ’ ’   It’’s not clear what ”issues” Merrill was referring to, but Garner   has  often, and supported her opponent   Bernie Sanders during the Democratic primaries. ’ ”   Garner accused the campaign of attempting to exploit and   manipulate the death of her father for Clinton’s benefit, and   demanded answers from the staffers: ” ’ ’ ”  why was the Clinton campaign searching for dead people to capitalize on? Why wouldn’t you call it police violence? ’t’t” ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tWhat really pisses me off is that the Clinton camp won’t just admit these emails belong to them. .. Fucking liars. ’t’t” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tI’’m vey interested to know exactly what  meant when he said ” I know we have an Erica Garner problem” in the  ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tWouldnt yall like to know why the  campaign thought that I my objecting to them exploiting my dads death was a ”problem”   ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tI’’m troubled by the revelation that you and this campaign actually discussed ”using” Eric Garner . .. Why would you want to ”use” my dad? ’t’t’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tI’m glad you had Maya on your team to explain why you wont be USING my dad in you fucking gun violence piece. .. Black woman saved your ass’t’t” ’ ’ ’  In this  leak  n  plot to use police violence victims to push gun control’t’t’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tPersonelle equals policy  said that Eric Garner’s killing was justified . And this is who we want to hold our nose and vote for?  ” ’ ’ ’  and  Both Clinton staffers needed their Black co worker to explain to them that my dad wasnt killed by a gun’t’t’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tnow he wants to play the victim . .. nah. Today I want answers on why you tried to manipulate my dads death for your needs. TODAY!  ’