’  ’ ’   Major League Baseball owners have  during the 2016 campaign cycle  —   and a handful   have accounted for nearly all of that total. ’ ’   According to a new study from the Center for Responsibility and   Ethics in Washington, no ownership group is more politically   engaged at the donor level than the Ricketts family, who happen   to own the Chicago Cubs  —   currently battling the Cleveland   Indians for the World Series title. ’ ’   And the family  —   which has a member, Peter Ricketts, serving   as the Republican governor of Nebraska  —   has a huge ideological   divide.   ’ ’   Laura Ricketts, a   donated $483, 000 to a Super PAC   dedicated to supporting   candidates for office. She also   contributed to a host of Democratic congressional campaigns, in   addition to providing $100, 000 to the Hillary Victory Fund. ’ ’   Her brothers, Todd and Tom, combined to donate roughly $60, 000 to   a score of Republican House and Senate candidates, while their   father, Joe Ricketts, who is often closely associated with the   team but does not have an official role, put $1 million behind an     Trump Super PAC earlier in the cycle. In September,   he relented, and put his support behind the Republican nominee. ’ ’   Providing the most money to Trump was Miami Marlins owner Jeffrey   Loria, who sent $125, 000 last month to Trump Victory. On the   flip side, former NBA superstar and   of the Los Angeles   Dodgers Magic Johnson provided the most cash for Clinton, making   a $250, 000 donation to the Hillary Victory Fund. ’ ’  ’ ”   The executive owner who made the most political   contributions was Robert Castellini of the Cincinnati Reds,   providing more than $600, 000 in funds to Republican presidential   and congressional candidates. He put $50, 000 into a Super PAC   backing Ohio Gov. John Kasich’s presidential bid, nearly $8, 000   to former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush’s Right to Rise Super PAC,   $150, 000 to an   Super PAC, as well as money that went   to support Sens. Rob Portman of Ohio and Pat Toomey of   Pennsylvania, and House Speakers John Boehner and Paul Ryan. ” ”   Baltimore Orioles owner Peter Angelos also dumped money into   campaigns in a similar manner as Castellini, except he was   providing cash to Democrats. Angelos gave more than $270, 000 to   the Super PAC formed to encourage Vice President Joe Biden to   seek for the presidency. He was the biggest donor to the   Super PAC, Draft Biden 2016. He’s also made donations to the   Hillary Victory Fund, and in support of Reps. Elijah Cummings and   Chris Van Hollen of Maryland as well as Sen. Patrick Leahy of   Vermont. ” ”   Some other prominent donations included New York Mets owner Fred   Wilpon giving $100, 000 to a   Christie Super PAC back   when the New Jersey governor was still seeking the presidency.   Texas Rangers   Ray Davis made a $100, 000 contribution to   Bush’s Right to Rise Super PAC, and John Malone, an investor in   the group that owns the Atlanta Braves, contributed $100, 000 to a   super PAC supporting Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker’s presidential   bid. ”