’  ’ ”   The pointed divisiveness of the 2016 political campaign can make   it feel at times like America’s divisions may be virtually   impossible to heal. ” ’   A  found 57% of Americans feel   ”frustrated,” 55% ”disgusted,” and 43% ”scared” about the 2016   election. Only 15% said they feel ”optimistic.” ’ ”   Though we don’t have similar polling to prove it, citizens felt a   similar way when our country was just in its infancy. ” ’   The election of 1800 was the first time the US political   landscape fractured into two parties. ’ ”   That fact  —   combined with some odd vice presidential voting rules   that were subsequently fixed with the   —   contributed to an outcome the founding fathers   didn’t expect: a tie. ” ”   This sent the decision of who would sit in the Oval Office to the   House of Representatives. It took them  to settle on Thomas Jefferson as the nation’s   third president. ” ’   As the country reeled from the political whiplash, Jefferson   praised the nascent democracy for its peaceful transition of   power in his first . ’ ’   ”But every difference of opinion is not a difference of   principle,” he said. ”We have called by different names brethren   of the same principle. We are all Republicans, we are all   Federalists.” ’ ”   Those were the names of the two new political parties. Though   they’ve  what was   then called the Jeffersonian Republicans (or the     confusingly enough) has since morphed into   today’s Democratic Party, and the Federalists have become the   Republican Party. ” ’   By declaring all Americans were of one mindset  —   to keep   functioning as one republic  —   Jefferson underlined that the   states could be stronger together. Not even a Civil War 60 years   later could break that bond. ’ ’  ’ ’   Jefferson continued: ’ ”   In today’s similarly turbulent political climate, Jefferson’s   wise words offer comfort that the American experiment can work.   It has so far. ” ’   ”Sometimes it is said that man can not be trusted with the   government of himself,” he said. ”Can he, then, be trusted with   the government of others? Or have we found angels in the forms of   kings to govern him? Let history answer this question.” ’