’  ’ ”   Democrats and Republicans have issued rare echoes of each   other in calling on FBI Director James Comey to quickly release   as much information as possible related to his bombshell Friday   letter that the bureau  into Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email   server. ” ’   The shocking revelation led to a wave of panic on the left and a   chorus of cheers on the right. But both sides wanted extended   information released to either quench those fears or back up   their assertions. ’ ’   It was perhaps the most politically consequential letter Comey   could have issued. With just 11 days to go until Election Day,   calls for additional information came flying in. ’ ’   In his letter to congressional leaders, Comey said the team   in charge of looking into Clinton’’s use of a private email server   briefed him Thursday on new emails it found ”in connection with   an unrelated case.” ’ ’   ”The FBI cannot yet assess whether or not this material may be   significant,” Comey wrote, adding, ”I cannot predict how long it   will take us to complete this additional work.” ’ ’   Officials later said the additional emails uncovered were in   connection with an investigation into the sexting scandal   surrounding former Rep. Anthony Weiner  —   the estranged husband of   top Clinton aide Huma Abedin. ’ ’   The  of the new   information were capped by an    press conference   convened by Clinton herself Friday evening, during which she   insisted the FBI director must release ”pertinent” information   ”immediately.” ’ ’   “The American people deserve to get the full and complete facts   immediately,” Clinton told reporters before taking   questions.  ’ ’   When asked about the connection to the Weiner investigation, she   said she had ”heard these rumors.” But until additional   information is released, ”we don’’t know what to believe.”  ’ ’ Clinton campaign chairman   John Podesta  —   who is caught up in his own email worries, as   WikiLeaks continues to dump large quantities of messages hacked   from his personal account  —   called on Comey to ”provide the full   details of what he is now examining,” saying that he ”owes it to   the American people.” ’ ’   Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid of Nevada, insisting that there   ”has always been more froth than fact on this issue,” called on   Comey to be transparent. ’ ’  ’ ’   And going even further, Democratic National Committee Interim   Chair Donna Brazile called Comey’’s letter ”irresponsible.” ’ ’   ”The FBI has a solemn obligation to remain neutral in political   matters  —   even the faintest appearance of using the agency’s   power to influence our election is deeply troubling,” she wrote   in a statement. ”At the very least, Director Comey must   immediately address the serious outstanding questions over what,   precisely his letter means, and what action or actions his agency   plans to take.” ’ ’  ’ ’   On the right, meanwhile, the calls themselves for transparency   from Comey were nearly identical  —   although they came from a   completely different viewpoint. ’ ’   Indiana Gov. Mike Pence, Republican nominee Donald Trump’’s   running mate, used nearly identical language to Clinton. He    that the FBI should ”immediately”   release emails ”pertinent” to the investigation. Top Trump   surrogate and former House Speaker  said he agreed with Podesta,   tweeting that the ”American people deserve to know before   they vote.” ’ ’   Retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson, a top Trump supporter and 2016   GOP presidential candidate,  Pence and Gingrich. ’ ”   And Sen. Ron Johnson, who has not gone out of his way to boost   Trump’s candidacy, released a lengthier statement. ” ’   Johnson, the chairman of the Senate Homeland Security Committee,   said it’’s ”in line” with Comey’’s ”commitment” to transparency   that he should release ”as much information” on the new   developments ”as possible.” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’