’  ’ ’   Back in March, when the U. S. elections still seemed far away  —     back before anyone had heard the name Fancy Bear and before   everyone knew John Podesta’s risotto secrets  —   I was in Moscow   talking to a Russian who had previously worked in the Kremlin. ’ ’   Over the course of a   conversation, it became clear   that we agreed on one key characteristic of Vladimir Putin. He   called it the “Putin Paradox” and defined it thus: The Russian   president’s tactical instincts for how to seize an opportunity   are so brilliant, and yet the strategic outcomes are almost   invariably disastrous. ’ ’   Seven months later, the saga of Russian meddling in America’s   presidential election has managed to illustrate the “Putin   Paradox” perfectly. ’ ’   There can be little serious debate at this point that Moscow is   indeed meddling. Despite Donald Trump’s skepticism, the U. S.   intelligence community has collectively blamed Russia for the   hack of Hillary Clinton’s campaign emails, which were released by   the website WikiLeaks, and the hack of the Democratic National   Committee. ’ ’   In addition to this more   interference, Russia’s     state media, notably the RT television network   and Sputnik press agency, consistently push a partisan,     line and spread claims of election rigging and other   shenanigans. (This is tame, by the way, in comparison with the      rhetoric of Russian TV host and propagandist Dmitry   Kiselyov, who claimed the U. S. establishment might kill Trump   rather than let him become president  —   but such bombast is   intended for domestic consumption and not to influence the U. S.   vote.) There are also concerns, still unproven, that Russians   could hack electronic voting systems on Election Day. ’ ’   And yet, for all this effort, what has been achieved? There have   been some successes  —   but they seem likely to come at a very high   cost. ’ ’   The success of Russia’s intervention must be measured relative to   its goals. Although a Trump victory seems increasingly unlikely,   there’s little reason to think that’s what the Kremlin ever   really wanted. The Republican nominee may seem like something of   a fellow traveler now  —   it was noticeable that even during the   third debate he batted away opportunities to distance himself   from Putin  —   but he would be an unpredictable president. Putin   has gotten used to operating as the wildest man on the   geopolitical stage; a Trump presidency might severely cramp his   style and his strategic calculations. ’ ’   Rather, the aim of all of Russia’s election interference was to   do two things. First, to weaken Clinton, such that on her   inauguration she would be too busy coping with a disgruntled   Democratic left, an embittered Republican right, and a divided   country in between to devote energy to confronting and toppling   Putin. It is too early to be sure, but if anything, the hacks   actually seem to be doing the unthinkable and bringing Democrats   and mainstream Republicans together in their shared anger at   Moscow. ’ ’  ’ ’   Second, by undermining the very legitimacy of U. S. democracy,   Russia’s hacking sought to weaken U. S. legitimacy abroad, dismay   its friends, and provide fuel for a global propaganda campaign   that, at its heart, tries to convince people not that the Russian   system is better than the rest, so much that it isn’t any worse.   That propaganda has resonated somewhat, but it is hard to   demonstrate that anything the Russians are doing is more damaging   than the Trump campaign itself. ’ ’   But just like the Crimean annexation (which led to sanctions and   massive costs to the state treasury) the Donbass adventure   (which led to more sanctions and has mired Russia in an   expensive, undeclared war) and the Syrian intervention (where   Putin backed away from an early withdrawal, leaving him stuck in   yet another   war) today’s Russian achievement is   poised to become tomorrow’s debilitating disaster. Russians who   chortled at the original WikiLeaks revelations and felt sly   satisfaction at the havoc created by “their” hackers are now   expressing concerns about possible U. S. retaliation and, more   importantly, what this will mean for future     relations. As one bitterly grumbled, “Let’s get used to sanctions   until we’re in the grave. ” ’ ’   Clinton is no friend of Putin’s. But she is a pragmatic operator   less interested in starting new crusades than clearing up old   conflicts; had Putin waited until her inauguration and offered   some kind of deal on Syria, maybe even Ukraine, it seems likely   that she would at least have considered it. With his      antics, though, Putin appears to have managed to   convince Clinton and those around her that the Kremlin represents   a clear and present danger to American democracy and Western   unity. As a Washington insider put it to me, “Expect now to see   Putin’s nightmares”  —   maybe even that   quiet support   for regime change in Russia  —   “come true once Hillary’s in the   Oval Office. ” ’ ’   In Moscow, the realization is growing that a few months of   schadenfreude during the U. S. presidential campaign are not going   to be worth the likely fallout. The   elite fear   that Washington is preparing to call Moscow’s bluffs in the   Middle East and Europe and also push harder on a wavering   European Union to maintain and even step up pressure on Russia.   The political and business elite are concerned that even if the   United States does not actively push for regime change, it will   clamp down all the more tightly on their opportunities to travel   abroad and invest. One senior parliamentary aide recently   expressed to me the worry that “Russia is becoming the new South   Africa,” referring to the   era of boycotts and sanctions   that isolated that country when it was still   and   characterized by apartheid. ’ ’   Even the spooks who orchestrated all this have their qualms.   Putin’s patronage and his enthusiasm for their ability to stir up   trouble abroad have served them very well until now. However,   their methods and capabilities are now coming under a scrutiny   unseen since the Cold War, and a new U. S. retaliatory strategy   seems to be taking shape. An analyst close to the Russian   intelligence community expressed a real worry, for example, that     capabilities, “which could have been real assets,   were wasted on emails full of gossip. ” ’ ’  ’ ’   To understand why Putin’s American adventure has gone so badly   wrong  —   and to understand why it illustrates so well this idea of   a “Putin Paradox”  —   it helps to look at it in the context of how   the Russian president likes to operate. Putin is a sort of improv   player on the world stage, riffing off current events and others’   concerns. In particular, he has for some time engaged in what   I’ve called “troll geopolitics,” which involves dramatic stunts   that cross all sorts of lines and generate plenty of breathless   press coverage along the away. ’ ’   Examples of this sort of trolling include rhetorical and gestural   displays like sending   bombers to skirt NATO airspace   and, recently, deploying   missiles to the Russian   exclave of Kaliningrad. These are relatively meaningless  —   but do   attract alarmed attention from the West. At other times, his   trolling can take a much more serious, and risky, form. The   intervention in Syria was meant to prop up one of Russia’s last   allies and serve as a brazen response to Washington’s efforts   diplomatically to isolate Moscow. But it has also increased the   odds of two nuclear powers coming into direct military conflict. ’ ’   As for the meddling in America’s elections, it may have started   as the more inconsequential sort of trolling, but when Putin   succumbed to his usual tendency to double down in the heat of the   moment, it became a more consequential intervention  —   an overt   challenge to the very integrity of U. S. democracy. ’ ’   For Putin, the temptation to meddle in America’s domestic   politics must have been irresistible. Massive and diffuse   political machines, especially those relying heavily on   volunteers, are by their nature insecure, easy targets for   Russia’s extensive, aggressive, and active intelligence services.   And America’s increasingly bitter and divided political landscape   produced an exceedingly hostile presidential campaign that   maximized the impact of strategic leaks and other “active   measures”  —   as the Russian spooks call political operations. The   opportunist in Putin spotted the weaknesses within the U. S.   political system this election and seized the moment with glee,   and American democracy has indeed suffered. But Putin has also   managed to make Russia’s role so evident that it demands some   kind of U. S. response. ’ ’   The Kremlin’s problem, among others, is that Putin the   Opportunist is consumed by the moment. He is focused on what he   can accomplish tomorrow, without necessarily thinking through to   what the consequences may be the day after. He also too easily   assumes that he will remain in control of what he started; this,   too, is something we’ve seen before. ’ ’   When the Kremlin decided to intervene in Ukraine’s Donbass   region, arming local malcontents and sending men and guns to back   them, it must have looked like a shrewd tactic. Kiev, the   thinking went, would be forced to capitulate, and Moscow could   claim not to be involved. More than two years later, Russia is   still mired in a vicious and bitter conflict, bankrolling the   thuggish   of Donetsk and Luhansk out of a shrinking   state budget. ’ ’   In some ways, the story of Putin’s foray into American politics   follows the same trajectory. A cute plan to use deniable assets   to stir up trouble abroad and force an opponent into a weak   position has once again proved too cute for its own good. Putin’s   claims that his hands are clean look increasingly flimsy; the   chaos takes on a life of its own and even begins to threaten its   maker. ’