’  ’ ’   Over the course of 15 years and four travel shows, Anthony   Bourdain has toured 80 countries, delving into their histories   and eating as much of their food as possible. ’ ”   If you ask him,  what his favorite   destination is, he will immediately tell you it’s Japan. ” ’   ”Japan is endlessly, endlessly interesting to me,” he said. And   even after going on nine filming trips there, ”I don’’t think I’’ve   even scratched the surface and I don’’t think I ever will.” ’ ”   He’s especially in love with Tokyo. ” ’   ”If I had to eat only in one city for the rest of my life, Tokyo   would be it,” .   ”Most chefs I know would agree with me. For those with restless,   curious minds, fascinated by layer upon layer of things, flavors,   tastes and customs which we will never fully be able to   understand, Tokyo is deliciously unknowable.” ’ ’   ”It’’s that densely packed, impenetrable layer cake of the   strange, wonderful and awful that thrills,” he added. ”It’’s   mesmerizing. Intimidating. Disorienting. Upsetting. Poignant. And   yes, beautiful.” ’ ’   We asked him for his   Japanese dishes. ”Oh, God. It’’s hard   to pick,” he said. ”Give me some good” or sea urchin, ”a really good” or buckwheat   noodles, ”with duck dipping sauce  —   duck dipping dressing is   really amazing  —   and I adore good” the   grilled chicken skewers. ’ ’   Japan’’s ”uniquely kooky national schizophrenia,” as he calls it   in his 2010 essay collection ”Medium Raw,” gels perfectly with   the way he approaches traveling. ’ ’   ”I’’ve found that you’’re not going to have the really great travel   experiences if you’’re not willing to experience the bad ones,”   Bourdain told us. ”The great travel epiphanies seem to sneak up   on you because you kind of     up, you took a wrong turn, and   you ended up in a place where you permitted events to unfold.” ’ ’   On Tokyo in particular, he wrote for CNN, ”I’’m sure I could spend   the rest of my life there, learn the language, and still die   happily ignorant.” ’ ’  ’