’  ’ ”   Sen. Chuck Grassley blasted FBI Director James Comey  on Monday for his decision to  that the bureau   had reopened its investigation into Hillary Clinton’s   private email server without providing additional information. ” ’   The Iowa Republican is requesting additional information from the   FBI regarding the investigation. ’ ’   Comey has faced criticism for making a statement about the   investigation even though the FBI doesn’’t typically comment on   ongoing investigations. He  that he felt an   ”obligation” to send a letter notifying Congress because he   ”testified repeatedly in recent months that our investigation was   completed.” ’ ’   The Clinton campaign has also called on Comey to release more   information on what the FBI has. ’ ’   ”Your letter indicated that the FBI learned in an ’’unrelated   case’’ of the existence of new emails pertinent to the Clinton   inquiry and that you believed the FBI should take additional   investigative steps to enable the new evidence to be reviewed,”   Grassley wrote in the letter. ’ ’’ ’   ”It is unclear from your letter what those additional   investigative steps are, why they are necessary in order to   review the emails, and whether they might include compulsory   legal process dependent on the approval of prosecutors at the   Department of Justice, such as seeking a search warrant.” ’ ”   The emails were uncovered after the FBI seized devices belonging   to Huma Abedin and her husband, former congressman Anthony   Weiner, reports said. Prosecutors issued a subpoena for Weiner’s   cellphone and other records in late September amid allegations   that he had been sexting with a    girl. ” ’   Critics are now accusing Comey of being motivated to influence   the outcome of the election. ’ ’   ”You clearly faced a difficult decision about whether, what, and   how much to disclose about this new information,” Grassley wrote.   ”Any choice could be seen as affecting the election. Some critics   of your decision to update your testimony to Congress are   inexplicably calling on you with their next breath to release   even more information. While I disagree with those who suggest   you should have kept the FBI’’s discovery secret until after the   election, I agree that your disclosure did not go far enough.” ’ ’   He continued: ”Without additional context, your disclosure is not   fair to Congress, the American people, or Secretary Clinton. The   factual context is important.” ’ ”   Grassley also included a list of 10 questions he wants the FBI to   answer about the investigation. He is requesting details about   the time frame on the emails and whether they’re new or are   duplicates of emails the FBI has already recovered. ” ’   Grassley also questioned whether ”political appointees at the   Justice Department might be withholding approval for the FBI to   seek search warrants and grand jury subpoenas.” ’ ’   ”If the FBI is denied the ability to gather evidence through   compulsory means, Secretary Clinton and her aides have enormous   leverage to negotiate extraordinary concessions in exchange for   voluntary cooperation,” Grassley wrote. ”This has already   happened in the course of this investigation.” ’