’  ’ ’   On the stump for Hillary Clinton on Tuesday afternoon, President   Barack Obama went in on Donald Trump. ’ ’   ”This guy?” he said. ”Don’’t be bamboozled. Don’’t run for that    .” ’ ’   It was a familiar refrain for Obama, who has been campaigning   vigorously for Clinton over the past several weeks. ’ ”   The president’s speech in Columbus, Ohio, took a more urgent tone   Tuesday, just a week out from Election Day. In criticizing Trump,   Obama pointed to what he characterized as a lack of interest in   policy and a disdain for inclusiveness. ” ’   Offering a counterpoint to what he described as the GOP nominee’’s   ”divisive” campaign rhetoric, Obama said, ”You do this job for a   while, and your love for this country just grows and grows . ..   this is a place like no other. It is founded on an idea that all   of us are created equal.” ’ ’   Trump has also faced steady criticism for language that appears   to flout some of the tenets of the US Constitution, including   provisions that protect freedom of speech and freedom of the   press. ’ ’   During an interview with CBS Miami in October, Trump  ”Our press is allowed to say whatever they want and   they can get away with it,” while suggesting he would seek to   weaken First Amendment protections if elected. ’ ’   Obama said: ’ ’   He suggested that Trump was more interested in promoting himself   than being an advocate for America, adding that presidential   politics should be more than just an opportunity to ”pitch a   hotel.” ’ ’   Speaking to the heated bombast surrounding Clinton during the   election cycle, Obama asked men in the audience to pause and take   stock of their views. ’ ’   ”When a guy is ambitious and out in the public arena and working   hard, well that’’s OK, but when a woman suddenly does it, suddenly   you’’re all like, why’’s she doing that?” he said. ’ ’   Clinton has been a polarizing figure in the 2016 cycle, in part   because of an ongoing FBI inquiry into a private email server she   used while serving as secretary of state. ’ ’  ’ ”   The matter gained new life last week when the FBI director, James   Comey, announced that the FBI had stumbled upon a separate batch   of emails possibly related to the investigation. The agency’s   handling of the case has led Clinton supporters to  with the   Democratic nominee. ” ’   Obama argued that, despite the email controversy, ”there’’s   something fundamental at stake” that puts Clinton above Trump; he   then ran through a litany of the   mogul’’s   controversial moves on the campaign trail. ’ ’   ”She is so much better qualified than the other guy,” Obama said,   before asking voters to choose Democratic candidates up and down   the ballot. ’ ’   ”She’’s gotta have a Congress that behaves a little bit better   than the Congress we have now,” he said. ’ ’   ”You have a chance to reject those who would take us backwards   and instead choose the progress that we can keep on making over   the next four years, the next eight years, the next 12 years.” ’ ’ ’