’  ’ ’   Gregory Mankiw is a Harvard professor,  and a   Republican. He served as Chair of the Council of   Economic Advisors under President George W. Bush, and   advised both the 2008 and 2012 Mitt Romney campaigns for   president. ’ ’   And he thinks the US needs a carbon tax. ’ ’   In an   —   conducted,   incidentally, by actor Leonardo DiCaprio, who stepped into the   role of science reporter for ”Before the Flood”  —     Mankiw explained why he believes a carbon tax is the best   option for curbing US emissions. ’ ’   A ”carbon tax” is actually a series of taxes that increases the   cost of activities like burning coal or buying gasoline that pump   carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. ’ ’   ”You want to tax bad activities that have negative effects on   other people in society,” he said. ”We raised the price of   cigarettes by putting a tax on cigarettes, people then consume   fewer cigarettes.” ’ ’   Carbon dioxide is a key contributor to climate change  —   . It gets   released into the atmosphere when fossil fuels, wood, and   solid wastes burn, and absorbed by plants. ’ ’   Scientists agree that human activity has caused atmospheric   carbon dioxide to spike dramatically in the last   to       the world over. ’ ”   (Donald Trump, the chosen presidential nominee of Mankiw’s party,   .) ” ’   ”I think trying to appeal to people’’s social responsibility [to   reduce emissions] is really very very very hard, because people   have lives and they have lots of things to worry about. They   don’’t want to think about climate change every time they do every   decision. They can’’t,” Mankiw said. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”What a carbon tax does is it nudges them in the direction of   doing the right thing,” he said. ’ ’   DiCaprio said he was surprised a Republican would support a new   tax. ’ ’   ”Well one of the important things to keep in mind is that if you   have a carbon tax, you can turn around and cut other taxes in   response,” Mankiw said. ”For example, the payroll tax. So this is   a tax shift, rather than a tax hike.” ’ ’ ’ ’   Given that Mankiw has served so prominently in a presidential   administration, DiCaprio asked, ”how come we don’’t have a carbon   tax already?” ’ ’   ”Well, politicians don’’t always do what professors want them to   do,” Mankiw said. ’ ’   He compared the issue to gay marriage. Obama ran in 2008 opposing   gay marriage, but came around once the polls () did. ’ ’   ”We need to preach to the American people,” Mankiw said. ”Once   the American people are convinced, politicians fall in line very   quickly.” ’ ’   Watch the documentary ”Before the Flood” below. ’ ’ ’