WASHINGTON  —   Donald J. Trump won the White House after spending a little more than half of what Hillary Clinton did, using a combination of his own money and contributions from donors big and small to fuel a campaign that shattered the modern conventions of money and politics. The figures for the final weeks of the campaign, released late Thursday, showed that Mr. Trump paid his own companies nearly $12 million over the course of the election  —   reimbursement for flights, hotel stays, meals and services for him and his staff members, as well as office space in the tower he owns on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan. His preferred mode of transportation  —   his private aircraft  —   made up the largest chunk of money that went back into Trump entities, $8. 7 million. The figures also show that Mr. Trump put in $65 million of his own cash, well short of the $100 million he had originally promised he would spend on his campaign. These unusual practices provide a glimpse of the kind of potential conflicts and ethical issues that Mr. Trump will have to resolve as president. The wealthiest man ever elected president, Mr. Trump is already facing calls from government ethics officials to sever ties to his vast real estate and financial holdings around the world. He is resisting so far, raising the possibility that he could enter office with a virtually unknowable number of personal entanglements that is without precedent. Over all, Mr. Trump raised far less money than Mrs. Clinton did, though the disparity  —   like the race itself  —   closed at the end of the campaign. The Clinton campaign brought in $70 million from Oct. 20 to Nov. 28, compared with $86 million for the Trump campaign, of which $10 million came from Mr. Trump’s own pocket. The combined figures, which include what each campaign and its outside allies raised, reinforce just how little money seemed to matter in this election. Mrs. Clinton and her allies took in about $1 billion Mr. Trump and the groups working on his behalf raised only about $600 million. Sustained at times by little more than a Twitter account, his own money and extensive news media coverage, Mr. Trump relied far less on the traditional tools of campaigning. Mrs. Clinton’s campaign was more dependent on television advertising, spending hundreds of millions of dollars on almost relentlessly negative attacks. At a time when every presidential election promises to obliterate spending records, 2016 was an exception. Both candidates spent significantly less than their counterparts did in 2012. Mrs. Clinton’s total expenses were $565 million, compared with $775 million for President Obama Mr. Trump spent $322 million, while Mitt Romney, the Republican nominee that year, spent $460 million. Mrs. Clinton closed with under $1 million in the bank, much less than the $7 million remaining for the Trump campaign. Though Mr. Trump would often brag that he was financing his own campaign, that was only partially true. The new disclosures show that nearly 80 percent of the money his campaign brought in came from donors. The disclosures also undercut another theme that was central to Mr. Trump’s appeal as an antipolitician  —   his insistence that he would not favor wealthy donors and powerful interests if elected. Some of his   nominees, who include millionaires and billionaires, made large donations to his campaign or to “super PACs” supporting him. For example, Linda McMahon, the professional wrestling mogul whom Mr. Trump has chosen to lead the Small Business Administration, donated $7 million to two   groups. The records also show that the men he intends to nominate for his secretaries of Labor, Treasury and Commerce all made   contributions to his campaign, the Republican National Committee or another group supporting him. Still, Mr. Trump’s campaign also benefited from a   network of ordinary Americans who gave small amounts of money, an illustration of his powerful   appeal.   percent of the amount donors gave directly to his campaign came from people who donated $200 or less. The financial fortunes of the political parties are also reflected in the outcome of the campaign, with Democrats in worse shape than Republicans as they head into 2017. The Democratic National Committee reported having $13 million on hand and $2 million in debt. The Republican National Committee has $21 million on hand and no debt. The figures also showed the extent to which the Republican National Committee benefited from its financial arrangement with Mr. Trump, who despite being a drag on the party’s finances early on ended up helping to rescue it. The committee kept a slice of the money it had raised with Mr. Trump through two joint   committees, helping to pay off $7 million in debt and leaving it in much better financial condition than at the beginning of the campaign.