’  ’ ’   It’’s no secret that Trump loves assigning nicknames to his   political rivals, from ”Little Marco” and ”Lyin’’ Ted” to   ”Crooked Hillary.” ’ ”   He’s used them in debates, rallies, press conferences, and   hundreds of tweets this year.  ” ’   But how does Trump get his nicknames to stick? ’ ’   His success is related to the evolution of the   media, University of Wisconsin communications professor   Dietram Scheufele told Business Insider. ’ ’   Research has shown that since the 1960s, the length of the   average news sound bite  from more than 40 seconds long to about eight or   nine seconds. Much of the extra time is now devoted to punditry   and analysis of short clips, Scheufele said. ’ ’   That means politicians hoping to control the airwaves need to get   the biggest bang for their buck, packing as much information as   possible into short, easily shareable sound bites, according   to Scheufele. ’ ’   By referring to his enemies by an insulting nickname, Trump   evokes negative feelings about them right off the bat. ’ ’   ”For his audience, what it does is the idea of resonance,”   Scheufele told Business Insider. ”A large part of his   success is his ability to resonate almost intuitively with an   audience with just a few words.” ’ ’   Take ”,”   Trump’’s   nickname for Massachusetts Sen.   Elizabeth Warren. Trump assigned Warren the moniker when he   revived a dispute about the senator’’s heritage, arguing she   falsely claimed Native American ancestry to advance her   academic career.  ’ ’   ”In one word, he basically mentions that story that most of his   voters won’’t remember, but they kind of know what he’s   referencing,” Scheufele said. ”So they find themselves all   of a sudden like, ’’Yeah, yeah, I remember that,’’   without really any rational thought or way of thinking   through the story.” ’ ’   From there, Trump can say something completely unrelated about   Warren, like in the following tweet. For his supporters, the   damage is already done. ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tPocahontas wanted V. P. slot so badly but wasn’t chosen because she has done nothing in the Senate. Also, Crooked Hillary hates her! ’t’t” ’   Similarly, calling Hillary Clinton ”Crooked Hillary” ensures   that, no matter the content of the sentence that follows, the   reference to Clinton’’s email controversy will always   make it in the sound bite, headline, or meme on social   media. ’ ’ ’ ’   ”That’’s why attaching that ’’crooked’’ label to every single issue,   and hammering it again and again and again, is so extremely   important for the messaging for Trump,” Scheufele said. ”He wants   me or you to go into that voting booth, and basically when we go   through our memory and try to retrieve the things we’’re thinking   about Hillary, that ’’crooked’’ label needs to one of those   things.” ’ ’   Another reason the strategy works is it jibes with Trump’’s   confident persona. The nicknames ”leave little room for debate or   contradiction,”  in April. ’ ’   With less than a week to go before the election, Trump seems to   be ramping up his nickname usage  —   he called Clinton   ”Crooked” on Twitter  on Tuesday alone. ’ ”   Given his success thus far, it’s unlikely he’ll stop any time   soon. ”