’  ’ ”   NASA on Wednesday announced a huge milestone in its $8. 7 billion   James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) mission: the completion of the   observatory’s . ” ”   To commemorate the moment, the space agency’s Goddard Space   Flight Center (GSFC) released  about the telescope on YouTube. ” ’   ”The efforts of thousands of people across the United States,   Canada, and Europe, for almost two decades achieved this   milestone,” the narrator said. ”Getting to this point wasn’’t   easy. [. ..] Before astrophysicists’’ dreams of building Webb could   be realized, 10 technologies that did not exist needed to be   created and perfected. They were.” ’ ’   The video shows off many of those revolutionary technologies,   including lightweight support structures, sensors, and more. ’ ’   But we noticed a crucial part of the telescope  —   about a minute   and 30 seconds into   —   is blurred out beyond recognition: ’ ’ ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   We provided the first image to Lynn Chandler, a NASA   representative for JWST, and asked why the part circled in red   was blurred out. ’ ’   ”This technology is proprietary. The government must respect the   intellectual property of its industry partners,” Chandler told   Business Insider in an email. ’ ”   We then asked which company made the   part, and   requested more details about it and its role in JWST’s mission   (which, by the way, is to study objects at  and quite possibly ). ” ’   ”That is the secondary mirror support structure with the   secondary mirror on it which includes details of mirror mounts,”   Chandler said. ”The secondary mirror relays light from the   primary mirror and does optical correction.” ’ ”   For reference, below is JWST’s secondary mirror with its convex,     surface. It’s a critical part. It takes all of the   giant primary mirror’s light and focuses it onto a third mirror   inside the telescope’s housing, which then bounces it into a   suite of detectors. Presto, images of the universe. ” ”   The   part on the backside (which you can’t see) is   noted by the arrow: ” ’  ’ ’   NASA declined to tell us which company made the   part,   saying that information is an ”ITAR [International Traffic in   Arms Regulations] issue” (more on this jargon in a moment). ’ ’   However, we know Northrop Grumman is the prime contractor that   designed the spacecraft, and Ball Aerospace . ’ ’   Lon Rains, a Northrop Grumman representative, declined to comment   further and asked us to direct our questions to NASA. Ball   Aerospace did not immediately respond. ’ ’  ’ ’   Why is the back of a mirror on a   scientific   observatory considered an ”arm” that must be regulated? ’ ’   Probably because of spy satellites. ’ ’   After all, if your telescope can  yet resolve objects 10 to 100 times dimmer (as JWST   should be able to do) that could be useful for peering down at   human activity on Earth. And the US government wants to maintain   any edge it can over the militaries of countries like China and   Russia. ’ ”   In fact, if you’re working in the US  —   or for the country  —   on   anything that could be even remotely considered a weapon,   including  you have to make sure it’s not on   the Department of State’s . Otherwise you might have to  and possibly face jail time for each   violation. ” ’   ITAR experts are common inside companies and agencies that work   with space technologies, so one of them at NASA probably reviewed   their video and said ”this part has to be blurred out” to avoid a   violation. ’ ’   ”It’’s basically caution about space hardware details being   released by the US government,” Anand Sivaramakrishnan, an   astronomer at Johns Hopkins University (which works closely with   the JWST mission) told Business Insider. ’ ’   ”If I had a piece of space hardware in my room, I may not be   allowed to have a foreigner come into my room” per ITAR   regulations, Sivaramakrishnan said. ”I couldn’’t let him or her   touch it.” ’ ’  ’ ”   Though we’re not in the aerospace business, we don’t want to   violate ITAR  —   and possibly pay a million dollars. ” ”   But we can describe what’s back there, generally speaking. (Note:   There is a moment in the NASA video that does appear to show the   back of the secondary mirror.) ” ’   So what is it? ’ ”   Sivaramakrishnan said it’s probably the support structure for the   mirror, plus a cluster of motorized actuators that can move it. ” ”   You’re already familiar with mirror actuators if you’ve driven a   modern car. They’re what whir when you fiddle with a     adjustment knob. But where automobile actuators typically have   only two actuators and degrees of freedom  —      and       —   each of JWST’s mirrors has six degrees of   freedom. ” ’   Sivaramakrishnan said the cluster of six actuators is called a   hexapod. ’ ’   ”If you take a computer keyboard and hold it in space, it needs   six numbers to describe where it is in space,” he said. That’’s up   and down, forward and backward, side to side, and a rotational   aspect to each one. ”So if you want to put a mirror in the exact   right location, you have to specify that. And that’’s a hexapod.” ’ ’   The precision you need in a space telescope in     precise, though. And JWST has 19   mirrors with a   hexapod a piece. ’ ’   Sivaramakrishnan said the tolerance  —   or error in distance  —   that   the primary mirror of JWST can only be off by 140 nm, or just   larger than the width of an HIV virus. Any more, and there could   be huge problems with the focus and exposure. ’ ’   The hardware required to do this on JWST is ”fancy,” he said, and   ”the details are under restriction.” ’ ”   So if you’d like to find out more, now is as good a time as any   to work toward your aerospace engineering degree and get a job at   NASA or one of its contractors. Good luck! ”