’  ’ ’   Imgur, home to ”the most awesome images on the internet,” has   had a tough year.  ’ ’   In late May, Reddit    even though Imgur had long been the popular repository for   the funny images that make up Reddit. ’ ’   A few months later in August, the company laid off 15% of its   workforce, including a large part of its data engineering team as   it shifted direction, Business Insider learned. The layoffs have   not been previously reported. ’ ”   Imgur spokeswoman Michelle Masek confirmed the layoffs, but said   it wasn’t a direct result of the Reddit’s move. ” ’   ” ’ ’’ ’   The   site was famous for bootstrapping, or not   raising any external money for the company at first. ’ ”   Alan Schaaf founded the company in his junior year at Ohio   University in 2009 and ran it entirely off donations for the   first six months. As the site took off, the bills also grew so   it started selling pro accounts, but continued to not seek   venture capital. Imgur’s (pronounced  ) prolific     won it the Best Bootstrapped Startup award two   years in a row at the Crunchies, a tech awards show.  ” ’   It wasn’’t until 2014, five years after Imgur’’s launch, that the   startup raised $40 million from famed Valley venture firm   Andreessen Horowitz. Also in the round was Reddit: ”an   appropriate nod to founder Alan Schaaf originally building Imgur   as a ’’simple image sharer’’ for the Reddit community,”    at the time.  Imgur’’s connection to Reddit was always   informal  —   the Reddit community had long embraced Imgur as a   way to upload photos but there was never any technical   partnership between the two companies.  ’ ’   With fresh venture capital, the team expanded from the dozen   people it had in 2014 to nearly 70 people in 2016. In a  its CEO, Schaaf, said that ”2016 is all about   building the team”. However, the layoffs to the data engineering   side of the company cut around 10 people or 15%. The company   insists its still hiring aggressively as it shifts focus. ’ ’   ”Several months ago we did eliminate a small number of positions   that no longer match our   strategy. We’re continuing to   grow our headcount, and we’re actively hiring across several   departments including engineering, sales, account management, and   creative strategy,” Imgur’’s spokeswoman Masek said in an email. ’ ’   The  at the company today largely evolve around   advertising and its mobile apps. The company is working to make   Imgur ubiquitous on mobile, but by accepting venture capital   money, it also to work on driving returns for its investors. The   2014 funding round valued the company at $200 million, so the   startup has to work on growing its revenue to match investor   expectations. ’ ’   ”Mobile platforms are our major focus, and we already see the   majority of our community engagement coming from Imgur’s mobile   platforms. We’re also helping brands authentically connect with   our massive community of millennials, and we’re continuing to   scale up our efforts with advertisers,” Masek said. ’