’  ’ ’   Who is to blame for climate change? ’ ’   Of course, we all are. If you’ve lived on Earth for even a couple   of years, then greenhouse gases —  emitted by you or for your   benefit —  have in some small part helped cause warming   temperatures, rising sea levels, and mass extinctions. ’ ’   It’s that “in some small part” that’s the rub, though. Global   warming is a global phenomenon, with millions of victims and   billions of culprits. At that kind of scale, how much of that   melting ice cap are you responsible for, really? ’ ’   A new paper  —  at least for one part of the   planet. It finds a fundamental linear relationship between the   amount of carbon in the atmosphere and the amount of summer sea   ice in the Arctic Ocean. For every metric ton of carbon dioxide   that enters the atmosphere, 32 square feet of summer     melts into the Arctic Ocean. ’ ’   Climate science has few other statistics like this, numbers that   immediately link the personal to the planetary. It’s worth   dwelling on for a moment. ’ ’   Americans (and denizens of the rich world, generally) release one   ton of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere all the   time. If you’re American, you have probably released   one ton of carbon into the atmosphere since October 15. About   2, 500 miles of highway driving emits that a ton of carbon. Two     flights between Washington, D. C. and San Francisco   release one ton of carbon. The average U. S. household is   responsible for six tons of atmospheric CO₂ every year through   electricity use alone. ’ ’   Now think of the secondary statistic. Every additional ton is an   additional 32 square feet of lost Arctic ice. In other words,   every American household melts 200 square feet of the ice cap   every year just to keep its lights on and the refrigerator   running. ’ ’   All in all, the average American person reduces the ice cap   around the north pole by about 645 square feet (60 square meters)   every year. (That’s working from the average U. S.     carbon footprint: about 20 annual tons per capita. If you’re   curious, you can estimate .) ’ ’     ’ ’  ’ ’   The paper is the first to identify a linear relationship between   carbon dioxide and Arctic summer  . That   it’s summer ice is crucial, here: The northern   ice cap waxes and wanes with the season, receding in the summer   and recovering in the winter. Every year, its summer area   generally gets smaller and smaller —  this year it tied for     ever —  but the nocturnal polar winter allows the   ice to post strong recoveries. ’ ’   This relationship —  which is technically 3. 0 plus or minus 0. 1   square meters per additional ton of carbon —  allows the authors to   estimate the first year when the Arctic Ocean will lose all of   its ice during the summer. They phrase this not in terms of a   year, but an amount: When an additional 1, 000 gigatons of carbon   dioxide are emitted, summer sea ice will vanish. ’ ’   “At current emissions rates, we will have reached that limit in   25 to 30 years,” says Dirk Notz, an author of the paper and the   head of   research at the Max Planck Institute for   Meteorology. “There is not a   year, basically, as to   when the ice is gone, but it really is this limit of total   emissions. So if we emit less, then it will take longer. It’s as   simple as that. ” ’ ’   Notz and the paper’s other author, Julienne Stroeve, analyzed   more than 50 years of observational data and a set of global   modeling runs for this study. (Notably, they found that the real   Arctic Ocean lost ice faster than the models would predict —  in   other words, existing models are less sensitive to atmospheric   carbon than they should be.) In a similar study last year, Notz   and Stroeve identified that global mean temperature and Arctic   summer   maintained a linear relationship. This study   advances that work by putting it into individual —  even   pedestrian —  terms. ’ ’   Cecilia Bitz, a professor of atmospheric sciences at the   University of Washington who was not connected to the study,   described its findings as “pretty breathtaking. ” ’ ’   “I’ve stood on sea ice, and I feel like when I’m standing on it,   I occupy about a square meter of sea ice. To imagine my personal   use of fossil fuels is causing about 50 or so square meters to   disappear each year  …     it was very profound,” she told me. ’ ’  ’ ’   She could not think of another study or statistic that was able   to phrase a global change —  the diminution of Arctic summer sea   ice —  in such an intimate way. ’ ’   How does this clear relationship between global carbon dioxide   and Arctic sea ice occur? Researchers still don’t know. ’ ’   The authors sketch a broad conceptual model in this paper. As   rays from the sun and warming rays trapped in the atmosphere heat   up the frozen Arctic Ocean, the ice must compensate for the   increased warming. It must equalize the system. In other words,   it melts, and the ice edge moves further north to where the sun’s   rays are less strong. ’ ’   “You have this increased heat at the ice edge, so the ice will   move further north to regain equilibrium, so more CO₂ will push   it further north,” says Julienne Stroeve, a professor at   University College London and a senior scientist at the National   Snow and Ice Data Center. ’ ’   “Of course it’s established that the Arctic sea ice doesn’t know   much about global mean temperature, in the same way   that nobody really knows much about global   mean temperature —  which is what makes it a very hard number to use   to communicate anything about global warming,” said Notz. “What   the similarity [between the two] implies is that the same   mechanisms that determine the global mean temperature —  namely, the   rise in CO₂ concentration in the atmosphere —  are the same   mechanisms that also affect Arctic sea ice. ” ’ ’   But other researchers suspect that heat trapped in the oceans   might still play some role in   loss. There’s little   evidence that the northern Atlantic or Pacific are warming along   the same kind of linear trend as the planet, which lead Notz and   Stroeve to reject it as a cause. But Bitz said that might just be   a lack of data: Oceanic heat data at high latitudes is still   sporadically observed and poorly understood. ’ ’   Notz and Stroeve’s paper will have two implications for the   field. First, it will allow climate modelers to tighten their   work on the northern pole. “The observations are     compared to models,” Bitz said. “That helps us know how to make   models better & how to interpret them now. ” ’ ’   But, second, it also suggests further that if the concentration   of atmospheric carbon ever fell, sea ice in the Arctic Ocean   could post a good recovery. In another study a few years ago,   Notz and Stroeve asked a range of climate models to estimate what   would happen if summer sea ice dwindled to nothing. The sea ice   still made healthy recoveries in the winter. ’ ’   “It’s not that once we’ve lost all summer sea ice, the winter sea   ice will go automatically,” said Notz. “Winter sea ice will   likely stick with us through the end of the century. ” ’ ’   And if humanity manages to limit its emissions, summer sea ice   might stick around that long too. ’