’  ’ ’   Before Zillow, Trulia, Redfin, and Realtor. com, someone   interested in buying a home would have to consult a local realtor   to access information about what was available on the market. ’ ’   But as these online property databases rose to prominence,   homebuyers became more picky. That is leading to some serious   problems in the luxury market, where expensive homes are   increasingly taking longer to sell. ’ ”   Websites like Zillow and Trulia let consumers find what the   current owners had paid for a particular home, the price per   square foot compared with that of the rest of the neighborhood,   and even how many people had viewed the listing page before you.   Homebuyers today are better equipped to understand when a home   they’re seeing is overpriced, which could explain, in part, why   some of America’s most expensive homes have languished on the   market. ” ’   The highest end of the American   market has indeed   seen a fair bit of softening over the past several months. ’ ”   According to recent data from  since last year the US   luxury   market has seen a significant increase in     homes needing to reduce their asking price. Trulia’s   analysis, which looked at   listings at the metro and   national level, showed that 11. 99% of luxury listings  —   defined   as the top third of all active listings  —   had experienced a price   reduction since first appearing on the market. ” ”   That’s an increase from 11. 01% last year and higher than the   10. 66% for all   listings nationally. ” ’   ”The luxury segment is slowing down more quickly this year than   it had in the past. California markets, as well as markets in   Texas, are the two major ones that have seen the largest   increases in price reductions. Home prices got too high too   quickly, and people who listed these homes for sale kind of got   ahead of themselves,” Trulia data scientist Mark Uh told Business   Insider, noting that buyers who know more about the market could   wait to make an offer until prices come down a bit. ’ ’   ”In the meantime, income hasn’’t caught up with such huge   increases in real estate prices,” he said. ”There’’s not as many   people who can afford those homes  —   supply has grown faster than   demand.” ’ ’  ’ ”   The situation has changed from just a few years ago, when the   luxury market  —   especially in places like New York City and Miami    —   was hot and there wasn’t much supply to go around. But now that   so many luxury condo buildings have been completed or are    and buyers have more options and no sense   of urgency to choose between them. ” ’   In New York City,   buyers with many millions to spend   can choose between   condos at One57, 432 Park   Avenue, and 111 West 57th Street, just to name a few. Many of   those buildings have  of their units or gotten more creative   with the offerings of extra amenities or unique layouts. ’ ’   ”If they’’re in the   category, they have to be very   realistic on pricing. There’’s more importance placed on being the   really correct price than there had been in the recent past,”   Noble Black of Douglas Elliman Real Estate told Business Insider.   ”There’’s a lot of choice. If you’’re a buyer looking to spend $40   million to $50 million, you know there’’s a lot more selection   than there had been in the past few years.” ’ ”   Black’s current listings include a  in New York’s trendy SoHo   neighborhood as well as  in the nearby Tribeca neighborhood. ” ’   ”In the past several years,” Black said, a broker could ”throw   out a crazy price and it would sell for that.” ’ ’   ”People are looking at the fundamentals now, really assessing   what the property is and what the price is,” Black continued. ”If   those things make sense, there’’s a demand for it, but it has to   be objectively a good deal.” ’ ”   It’s not just in New York and Miami that sellers are feeling the   effects of a softening luxury market. We’ve reported on major   price chops in other markets on properties owned by big names   including  and . There are many reasons an otherwise desirable   home could take months and even years to find a buyer. It could   be that the property has a strange layout, that the owner’s style   comes off as too quirky, or that a    location can’t   be justified. Political and economic uncertainties across the   globe certainly haven’t helped the situation. ” ’   But to hear the pros talk about it, it sounds more and more as if     homes are being brought down to the prices they   should have been tagged with in the first place. ’ ’   ”If you want to sell something, you have to be realistic,” Ryan   Serhant, a broker with Nest Seekers International who stars on   Bravo’’s ”Million Dollar Listing New York,” told Business Insider.   He added that he would often notice potential buyers verifying   listing details on their phone at the same time he’’s showing them   around a property. ’ ’   ”People don’’t want to overpay, but they like to spend money when   it’’s their own idea. Everyone likes to get a deal,” he said. ’ ’  ’ ”   Though Serhant got his start in New York, his team also operates   offices in Los Angeles, Miami, and the Hamptons on Long Island,   and he says the slowing of the luxury market is a trend he has   seen across the board. Serhant agreed with predictions that the   market is headed toward a correction soon, but he thinks it’s a   great thing. ” ’   ”It’’s not like real estate is less expensive,” he said. ”It’’s   like going to a chiropractor to get adjusted  —   to feel better, it   went down to its real price. It’’s a healthier market for sure.   There have been more bidding wars than I can remember, in part   because people are starting to price their homes correctly.” ’