’  ’ ”   FBI Director James Comey  on Sunday that the agency had completed its   review of emails found on former Rep. Anthony Weiner’s laptop   that may have been relevant to the bureau’s investigation into   Hillary Clinton’s private email server. ” ’   The new emails were uncovered after investigators seized devices   they suspected Weiner, the estranged husband of top Clinton aide   Huma Abedin, used to exchange sexually explicit messages with   underage girls. ’ ’   The  were reviewed over eight days and   yielded no new evidence that compelled the FBI to change its   initial decision made in July not to recommend charges against   Clinton. ’ ”   Many of the emails examined were apparently duplicates of those   FBI agents reviewed when they investigated her private server   between August 2015 and July 2016, since the emails were either   sent or received with Clinton’s private email address. ” ’   Comey wrote on Sunday that he and his team had been ”working   around the clock” to process the newly discovered emails, and   that they ”reviewed all communications that were to or from   Hillary Clinton while she served as secretary of state.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Still, Republican nominee Donald Trump and his supporters were   quick to raise questions about how the FBI could have examined so   many emails in what seemed like so little time. ’ ’   ”IMPOSSIBLE: There R 691, 200 seconds in 8 days,” one of Trump’’s   advisers, retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn, tweeted on Sunday   afternoon. ”DIR Comey has thoroughly reviewed 650, 000 emails in 8   days? An email   second? IMPOSSIBLE.” ’ ”   Trump echoed Flynn’s comments during a rally in Michigan. ” ’   ”You can’’t review 650, 000 new emails in eight days!” Trump said. ’ ’  ’ ’   Cybersecurity experts, however, disagree. ’ ’   ”I see no problem with the FBI completing a search of this size   in a week,” John Michener, chief scientist at the cybersecurity   firm Casaba Security, told Business Insider on Monday. ’ ’   He added: ”The vast majority of the emails are likely to be   duplicates of emails that the FBI has already seen and evaluated.   Those can be trivially eliminated. After that I would expect a   keyword search to loop for things of interest.” ’ ’   On Twitter, former National Security Agency      Edward Snowden  could be achieved by ”old laptops” in hours or   even minutes. ’ ’   ”Drop   To: : : hash both sets, then subtract   those that match,” Snowden said, responding to  by Jeff Jarvis, a professor at the City   University of New York Journalism School, about how long it would   take the NSA ”to dedupe 650k emails.” ’ ’   A former FBI agent corroborated those assessments in an  saying ”you can triage a dataset like   this in a much shorter amount of time.” ’ ’   ”We’’d routinely collect terabytes of data in a search,”   said the unnamed agent. ”I’’d know what was important before I   left the guy’’s house.” ’ ”   The FBI has not revealed the process by which it sifted through   all of the relevant emails, but most experts agree that the   agents probably didn’t even need the full eight days to do so. ” ’   ”Given those emails, and a list of known email accounts from   Hillary and associates, and a list of other search terms, it   would take me only a few hours to reduce the workload from   650, 000 emails to only a couple hundred, which a single person   can read in less than a day,” cybersecurity consultant Rob Graham   wrote in a  on Sunday. ’ ’   Michener largely agreed. ’ ’   ”This is a   area for both the FBI and the legal   industry in general,” Michener told Business Insider. ”It’’s not a   complicated or improvised process. I’’m sure the FBI already had   all of its search terms set up in a database, so all they had to   do was run them against the new data set. This is just a minor   delta, and totally reasonable for them to complete it in that   span of time.” ’