LONDON  —   The media and entertainment mogul Rupert Murdoch was on the verge of taking full control of the British satellite television giant Sky five years ago when his takeover bid was derailed by a   scandal in his company’s publishing arm. On Friday, Sky said that Mr. Murdoch’s 21st Century Fox had reached a preliminary deal to acquire the 61 percent stake in Sky it did not already own. The new takeover offer would value Sky at about $23 billion. The two companies are still in talks over the final terms of a deal, Sky said. The takeover approach came more than five years after 21st Century Fox’s predecessor company, News Corporation, withdrew a $12 billion offer for the rest of Sky  —   then known as BSkyB  —   as a firestorm erupted over   by the media in Britain. In 2011, it emerged that reporters at News of the World, a Sunday tabloid newspaper then owned by a subsidiary of News Corporation, had hacked the mobile phone of a young murder victim in Britain and listened to her voice mail messages, inciting outrage in Britain. The scandal led to the newspaper being closed and soon engulfed News Corporation’s publishing business in Britain. News Corporation split into two companies in 2013. Its entertainment assets were housed in the newly christened 21st Century Fox, while the new News Corporation consisted of its publishing business, including The Wall Street Journal and The Times of London. The scandal also forced James Murdoch, the son of Rupert Murdoch and chief executive of 21st Century Fox, to step down as chairman of Sky. The younger Mr. Murdoch served as chairman of Sky from 2007 to 2012 and retained a seat on its board after resigning as chairman. At the time of the phone hacking scandal, James Murdoch oversaw News Corporation’s businesses in Europe, the Middle East and Asia. He was never found to have any direct knowledge of the hacking, but a Parliament committee investigating the scandal accused him of “willful ignorance. ” James Murdoch acknowledged at the time that he had failed to read emails that referred to settlement payments made to hacking victims. Despite the scandal, the younger Mr. Murdoch has remained well respected in European media circles and returned to serve as Sky’s chairman this year, spurring speculation that another takeover bid by 21st Century Fox was in the works. On Friday, Sky said that 21st Century Fox had offered to pay 10. 75 pounds a share in cash ($13. 58) less the value of any dividends subsequently paid by Sky. The new offer represents a 40 percent premium to the Sky’s closing price on Tuesday, the last day before the initial Fox approach. Shares of Sky closed up nearly 27 percent in trading in London on Friday after the announcement but ended the day below the offer price. In the United States, shares of 21st Century Fox closed down 2 percent. “There can be no certainty that an offer will be made by 21st Century Fox, nor as to the terms of any such offer,” Sky said in a news release. Sky said that its independent directors had indicated to 21st Century Fox that they were willing to recommend the proposal to shareholders, subject to reaching an agreement on the other outstanding terms. The independent directors were advised by Barclays, Morgan Stanley and PJT Partners, Sky said. The company also said that it had formed an independent committee of its directors that it considers free of any conflicts of interest to consider the terms of the Fox proposal. A potential bid for the rest of Sky by 21st Century Fox was widely anticipated by analysts, particularly after ATT agreed to acquire Time Warner for $84. 5 billion in October. “We think the likelihood of a Fox bid for Sky now rises, which would create a stronger vertically integrated business in Europe,” Tim Nollen, senior media analyst at Macquarie Bank, wrote in a report in October after the Time Warner deal. The   Warner deal was the latest in a series of transactions by media companies in recent years to gain scale, control more content and distribute that content directly to customers. On Friday, 21st Century Fox said that its 39 percent stake in Sky was “not a natural end position. ” “A proposed transaction between 21st Century Fox and Sky would bring together 21st Century Fox’s global content business with Sky’s      capabilities, which have made it the number one premium   provider in all its markets,” 21st Century Fox said in a news release. “It would also enhance Sky’s leading position in entertainment and sport, and reinforce the U. K.’s standing as a top global hub for content generation and technological innovation,” the company added. Gaining full control of Sky would be consistent with efforts by James Murdoch since he took over as chief executive to simplify  —   and gain greater control over  —   21st Century Fox’s ventures. Last year, 21st Century Fox announced a deal valued at $725 million to create a   joint venture with the National Geographic Society that encompassed the National Geographic Channels cable television group along with National Geographic’s other properties.   Century Fox owns a 73 percent stake in the venture, National Geographic Partners. The deal came after an   partnership between Fox and the nonprofit group for National Geographic Channels. The company has also looked for more ways to take its content directly to consumers, including signing a deal in November to provide live streaming of its television channels through a new service being introduced next year by Hulu, which 21st Century Fox partly owns. Sky has reshaped itself into a   satellite provider in recent years, buying Sky Italia and a controlling stake in Sky Deutschland for more than $9 billion from 21st Century Fox in 2014. Sky, which offers television, broadband and telephone phone services, has nearly 22 million customers in Austria, Britain, Germany, Ireland and Italy. It reported revenue of nearly £12 billion ($15. 1 billion) in its 2016 fiscal year, which ended June 30. Sky exclusively licenses a variety of television shows from AMC Networks, HBO and Showtime in Europe, including “Game of Thrones,” “The Walking Dead” and “The Affair. ” It also broadcasts the top soccer leagues in Britain, Germany and Italy. Fox is being advised in the discussions by Centerview Partners and Deutsche Bank.