This year could not end without a little bit of Taylor Swift. The pop star, who had not released new music since the album “1989” in the fall of 2014, surprised fans on Thursday night with “I Don’t Wanna Live Forever,” a collaboration with the former One Direction member Zayn Malik (who performs as ZAYN). The moody,   track, which will be featured on the movie soundtrack for the “Fifty Shades of Grey” sequel “Fifty Shades Darker,” was released for paid download and to streaming services just after 11 p. m. though it was not immediately available on Spotify. (Ms. Swift pulled most of her catalog from the company in 2014 in a dispute over royalties and a service offering free music for listeners.) Ms. Swift wrote the song along with Sam Dew and Jack Antonoff, who also produced the track. The song is notable for her sly choice of a duet partner  —   Mr. Malik performed as part of the British boy band One Direction, alongside Harry Styles, one of Ms. Swift’s former boyfriends. Mr. Malik quit the group last year, becoming the first member to go solo with the release of the album “Mind of Mine” in March. Ms. Swift, who won the Grammy for Album of the Year for “1989” in February, has not been completely absent from the music scene this year. In addition to her extended feud with Kanye West and Kim Kardashian over the lyrics to Mr. West’s song “Famous,” she surfaced unexpectedly as a songwriter for other artists. In July, she confirmed an online fan theory that she had written “This Is What You Came For,” a single by the D. J. (and Ms. Swift’s  ) Calvin Harris, which featured Rihanna and had initially been credited pseudonymously to Nils Sjoberg. Ms. Swift was less coy last month when she announced that she was the writer behind “Better Man,” a new single by the country group Little Big Town. Still, Ms. Swift shocked fans by not sticking to her standard release schedule: For her entire career, since her   debut in 2006, she has released a new album in the fall every two years, with four of her five LPs coming in late October. This time around, one December single will have to do.