’  ’ ’   It seems to me that people could save a lot of time,   aggravation, and money (and also limit risk) if they knew   exactly how millionaires made their money. ’ ’     ’ ’  ’ ’     percent of the millionaires in my   study were senior executives at the companies they worked   for. When I say big company, I mean multinational  —   preferably   one that is publicly owned. ’ ”   The beauty of working for a big, publicly owned company is that   you don’t have to necessarily be a senior executive to become   rich. If the company offers qualified stock options or stock   grants, or has an employee stock ownership program, you can buy   your company’s stock at a discount. These small discounts are not   available to the general public. ” ’’ ’   Even better, big companies often make matching contributions of   their stock into the company retirement plan. So, if you purchase   company stock through a 401( k) plan, it will match your   contribution, increasing the amount of stock you own. ’ ”   Two of the millionaires in my study were   employees who   kept buying company stock over 35 years. They were lucky,   however, in that their company’s stock rose significantly during   those 35 years. As I’ve said many times, becoming wealthy   requires luck. ” ’     percent of the   millionaires in my study   were professionals. Did your mother tell you as a child that   she wanted you to become a doctor? Well, she had the right   instinct. ’ ’     percent of professional   millionaires in my    were doctors. Surgeons and scientists   earned the most money and were the wealthiest, according to my   data. Next up were lawyers, then engineers, then financial   planners. One CPA made the list. ’ ’     percent of all of the   millionaires in my   study were   owners. Of this, 22% were   professionals. So, if I were to carve out the professionals, 39%   of the small business owners were  . What type of   businesses were these   businesses owners engaged   in? ’ ’   Eleven percent sold something either for a big company or through   their small business. They made their money from product   commissions, primarily. ’ ’ Thomas Corley is the author of ”,” and ”.” ’