’  ’ ’   The first policy priority   Donald Trump mentioned   in his victory speech Wednesday morning was a large   infrastructure spending program, a major goal for Democrats in   Washington. ’ ’   Trump graciously praised Hillary Clinton. He did the same with   President Barack Obama, whom he met with at the White House on   Thursday. Obama and Trump did an eerily realistic impression of   two people who had just had an enjoyable and productive meeting,   one that ran much longer than it was scheduled to. ’ ’   Somebody is  about the productive relationship   likely to exist between Trump and Sen. Chuck Schumer, the likely   Democratic minority leader in the Senate. ’ ”   What’s going on here? ” ”   I think Trump’s surprisingly cordial overtures to Democrats are   best understood as a shot across the bow of Paul Ryan and Mitch   McConnell, and as groundwork he is laying to be able to work with   either side of the aisle in Congress as necessary. ” ’’ ’   To understand what I see Trump being up to, you should look at   the way he handled Fox News Channel and CNN in the early days of   his campaign.* ’ ’   When Trump announced his run for president, he and Fox News   seemed as though they would be a match made in heaven. Trump is   conservative TV news ratings gold, and he’’d been a regular   personality on the network, calling in frequently to ”Fox and   Friends” for years. ’ ”   But not everybody at Fox News is as soft a touch as Sean Hannity,   and Trump likely surmised that a lot of people there wouldn’t   want him to actually be the Republican nominee  —     lest he lose, or win and do unconservative things. And he had   very good reason to fear he would face tough questioning and   coverage from newsier personalities at the network, such as Megyn   Kelly and Chris Wallace. ” ’   Trump needed a strategy to keep Fox in line. So after the first   Republican primary debate, which Kelly opened by asking about his   past insulting comments about women, Trump used Twitter to   eagerly attack the network, and . ’ ’   But to be able to credibly threaten to disfavor Fox and deny it a   ratings magnet, he needed somewhere else to go on television.   That was what CNN was for. ’ ’   Trump started cultivating CNN even before the first Fox debate.   Gabriel Sherman  in August 2015 that the Trump   campaign had been handing important exclusives to CNN, including   one that had been promised to Fox News. ’ ’   Sherman reported that the choice to favor CNN was a source of   consternation within the campaign, but it obviously paid   dividends later when Trump needed to pressure Fox News to back   off its harsh coverage. ’ ’   As Trump prepares to govern, you can think of Ryan and McConnell   as like Fox News, and Schumer and his Democrats as like CNN. ’ ’   Trump could pursue a strategy of snubbing Democrats and   signing a legislative agenda that Republicans pass on     votes. This strategy would also require him to depend on     Republican support for his cabinet appointments. ’ ”   But a strategy of writing off the Democrats would give Ryan and   McConnell a great deal of   power, not to mention   the power it would give to    Republican members of   the Senate, who could deny Trump a majority if just three break   ranks on any matter, because of Republicans’ narrow majority. ” ’   If Trump wants to be able to defy Ryan and McConnell and set his   own agenda  —   either because he is serious about the less   conservative parts of his campaign platform or he simply hates   ceding power to others  —   he needs someone else he can work with   on Capitol Hill. That will require developing a working   relationship with Democrats. ’ ’   I am not coming anywhere close to saying Trump is a closet   Democrat eager to work with Schumer to implement a secret liberal   agenda. Trump’’s warm relationship with CNN did not last forever;   by the end of his campaign, his supporters were chanting ”CNN   sucks” at rallies. ’ ”   As with Trump’s relationship with the media, Trump’s favoritism   on Capitol Hill will be situational. What Trump’s overtures say   to me is Trump wants the option to work closely with Democrats on   some priorities, such as infrastructure and perhaps child care   subsidies. ” ”   On other issues, such as taxes and environmental regulation,   he’ll probably work solely with Republicans. On trade policy he   might want to form a mixed bipartisan coalition in Congress. ” ”   By being able to work both sides of the aisle and build     coalitions, Trump would have a much more   powerful presidency than if he pursued a narrow     strategy. And I doubt he’ll get in much trouble with Republican   voters for it. ” ”   One thing we learned during this presidential campaign is Trump   draws much more loyalty from Republican base voters than   congressional leaders do. If Trump partners with Democrats on a   piece of legislation and demands to know why Ryan and McConnell   won’t bring it to the floor, it will be Ryan and McConnell who   come under base pressure, not Trump. ” ’   Trump has been a Republican since 2012. He has changed political   parties  in his adult life. The only policy issue   on which he has expressed consistent views through the decades is   trade. He has no apparent ideological attachment to the idea of   smaller government. He has a long history of making, breaking,   and remaking alliances. ’ ’   Given all that, it is entirely unsurprising that Trump would want   to leave his options open on the policy he can make during his   presidency  —   and therefore he must have open lines with both   parties. ’ ’ *I am a paid contributor to MSNBC, a competitor to both CNN   and Fox News Channel. ’