’  ’ ’     Donald Trump has a   website with a . gov   address. It features images of grassland and   skies  —     and, if you read between the lines, the solemn promise to   devastate planet Earth. ’ ’   If you visit  click ”Making   America Great Again” and then ”Making American Secure Again,” and   you’’ll find a link to a page on energy independence. ’ ”   Here’s what it says: ” ”   In other words: Trump plans to allow corporations to haul vast   amounts of carbon out of the Earth and burn it, releasing untold   tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. He plans to walk back   the United States’ international commitments to reduce greenhouse   gas emissions. He plans to make it easier for coal companies to   poison drinking water. And he plans to bar from government any of   the 97%+ of climate scientists who form the . ” ’   This is a pledge to reject science and cook the planet. The    the  and . Serious scientists are   uniformly in agreement on this point, and what few skeptics   remained have  in light of the evidence of the last   decade. To deny this is to mislead, or to betray staggering   ignorance. ’ ’   Trump claims scientists who study and present this reality have   ”radical political agendas.” However, the fact that he will now   wield the levers of power does not make it less true that his   denial is actually the radical stance. ’ ’   The US is one of the largest global emitters, and early estimates   suggest a   Trump presidency would lead to an additional    in the atmosphere. If this   happens, it would likely represent the death of any hope of    as world leaders   committed to in Paris this year. ’ ”   There’s a lot more to say on the subject of the specific policies   Trump promises to repeal, such as the danger of lifting   regulations designed to prevent coal companies from poisoning   drinking water  —   which has been a problem . ” ”   But for now let’s focus on the bigger picture here. Why would   Trump do this? ” ”   Here’s one answer. As Sarah Kliff, Ezra Klein, and Matt Yglesias   pointed out in the  there are fairly   straightforward steps a president can take to boost the economy   in the short term if he’s willing to ignore     consequences. ” ’   Trump could appoint a Federal Reserve chair who would pour cash   into big banks, despite the   effects of inflation. He   could dramatically cut taxes without cutting government programs   and run up trillions of dollars in debt. And he could, as he   promises on his new website, unshackle extraction corporations,   allowing them to trade air, water, and climate safety for profit. ’ ”   None of these things would be good for society’s      . But it’s certainly plausible that they would create     economic gains with painful consequences that would   only be felt long after Trump leaves office. ” ”   So what is there left for people who care about maintaining our   planet’s habitability to do? Eric Holthaus, a prominent climate   science writer, offers some insight: ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tDefeatism may feel like the only option (see:  ) but with something as important as THE PLANET you never give up. ’t’t’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tFirst off, the Paris Agreement was specifically designed to withstand a Trump presidency. Good chance other countries continue   us. ’t’t’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tSecond, the climate is a zero sum game. Every ton of carbon emitted stays there for hundreds of years, effectively permanently. But. .. ’t’t’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tThat means every pipeline we block, every coal plant we shut down, every solar panel built is a net win. We have agency, we are  ’t’t’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tMy guess is: The environment movement doubles down under President Trump, ramps up protests, ramps up legal action, gets in the way. ’t’t’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tThe momentum on climate is depressingly slow, but it’s in the right direction. Trump is a big setback, but it’s not game over. ’t’t” ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tDon’t be tricked into thinking your actions to protect the climate we all share are meaningless under Trump. You are more imp than ever. ’t’t”