’  ’ ”   WASHINGTON, DC  —   As the world adjusts to America’s  uncertainties   about what policies Donald Trump will pursue  —   toward North Korea   in particular  —   remain. ” ’   ”Trying to predict President Trump’’s policy toward Asia, or any   global region for that matter, is difficult if not   impossible,” Bruce Klingner, senior research fellow of   Northeast Asia at the Heritage Foundation, told Business Insider. ’ ’   ”We are in uncharted territory because Trump has not articulated   an Asian policy nor does he even have an identifiable cadre of   Asian advisors,” Klingner added. ’ ’   Echoing that sentiment, David Straub, former State   Department Korea director and associate director of the   Korea Program at Stanford University, told Business   Insider that Trump knows ”next to nothing” about the region. ’ ’   ”He didn’’t say very much about North Korea during the campaign,   and what he did say was incoherent,” Straub told   Business Insider. ’ ”   Notably, while on the campaign trail, Trump said he   would hold a summit with the North’s reckless leader Kim Jong Un   .  ” ’   ”It’’s clear he knows next to nothing about the area and the   problems there, and it will take him and his administration a   long time to get up to speed,” Straub said. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”I can’’t see Trump negotiating a denuclearization agreement with   North Korea,” Jeffrey Lewis, director of the East Asia   Nonproliferation Program at the   Middlebury   Institute of International Studies, told Business Insider. ’ ’   ”And after Libya and what I anticipate will be the collapse of   the agreement with Iran, I don’’t see any appetite in North Korea   either.” ’ ’   Trump also said he would remove US troops from   host nations throughout Asia and Europe if these countries   did not pay their share of the costs. ’ ’   Straub added that Trump should focus on North Korean threats   instead of ”complaining about how much our allies South Korea and   Japan are paying for the upkeep of US forces in their country.” ’ ’   ”The fact is that they already pay a great deal of those costs,   and that it would cost more to move them to the US than keep them   where they are, not to mention the fact that strategic stability   in Northeast Asia is very much in US interests as well as in the   interests of our allies,” Straub said. ’ ”   In regards to China, Pyongyang’s closest ally   and the region’s most powerful nation, Trump   has said he would pressure Chinese president Xi Jinping   to address North Korea’s nuclear ambitions. ” ’   ”Given Trump’’s statements on trade policy with China, it is   difficult to imagine how he can get China to do what he wants,”   Eric Gomez, a policy analyst for defense and foreign policy   studies at the Cato Institute, told Business Insider. ’ ’   ”Despite the instability North Korea causes, Beijing is willing   to keep supporting it so long as it can be a hedge against US   military power in the region. China probably has the best chance   of pressuring North Korea on the nuclear weapons issue, but right   now it’’s difficult to see how Trump would get Beijing to change   its current position,” Gomez added. ’ ’  ’ ’   Similarly, Melik Kaylan,   of ”,” says that Trump will   most likely be unable to adjust Beijing’’s stance. ’ ’   ”China uses North Korea as a lever to distract its regional   rivals,” Kaylan said. ”If Trump is true to his words, he will try   to confront China on a series of issues. China will play the   North Korea card.”  ’ ’   ”Trump will ultimately fall back on the alliances as they   exist,” Kaylan added. ’ ’   Straub notes that Trump may even follow the same policy carried   out by President Obama when dealing with North Korea. ’ ’   ”If Trump is guided by our government experts and institutions,   he will eventually follow roughly the same policy as President   Obama, i. e. ratchet up US and international pressure on North   Korea to give up nuclear weapons each time it commits a   provocation, at the same time bolstering our missile and other   defenses against the North and preparing for all manner of   contingencies,” Straub said. ’ ”   And while the current administration has   slapped Pyongyang with several rounds of   heavy sanctions, the Hermit Kingdom’s brazen rocket   launches and nuclear detonations continue. ” ’   ”This year, Pyongyang successfully conducted two nuclear tests,   an intercontinental ballistic missile test, breakthrough   successes with its     missile and     ballistic missile,   vehicle   technology, a new   rocket engine, and an improved     ICBM engine,” Klingner told Business Insider in   a previous interview. ’ ’  ’ ”   What’s more, during one week in October, the North   launched what are thought to be two Musudan     ballistic missiles  —   one on  and another on .  ” ’   ”This     stuff also suggests that they must have an   inventory of these things that they’’re willing and able to expend   to advance the program,” Thomas Karako, director of the   Missile Defense Project at the Center for Strategic and   International Studies, told Business Insider in a previous   interview. ’ ”   Hours after the aforementioned dual  US Secretary of Defense   Ash Carter met with South Korea’s minister of defense, Han Min   Koo, at the Pentagon. ” ’   ”Make no mistake, any attack on America or our allies will not   only be defeated, but any use of nuclear weapons will be met with   an overwhelming and effective response,” Carter said during the   press conference. ’ ’   ”The United States remains committed to defending our allies   against any threat with the full spectrum of American military   might,” Carter added. ’ ”   Looking to the future, experts agree that Trump’s policies will   not be known for many months after he transitions to the highest   office in the land. ” ’   ”North Korea will of course seek to use that time to its own   advantage, which will not be to ours,” Straub said. ’ ’   ”’’Bewilderment’’ and ’’uncertainty’’ will be the keywords for the   assessing the 2016 presidential election and the path ahead,”   Klingner said. ’