’  ’ ’   For the last year, the tech industry has been fretting about   a bubble. ’ ’   Investors on all sides argued over whether valuations were too   high or whether the tech sector as a whole was still undervalued. ’ ’   Yet while Silicon Valley was obsessing over the startup bubble,   it collectively failed to realize it was living in a   completely different kind of bubble: a political bubble. ’ ’   As the reality struck late Tuesday night that Donald Trump   would be the next US president, tech leaders found themselves   reeling.  ’ ’   Y Combinator President Sam Altman, who had compared Trump to   Hitler but kept   Peter Thiel as a YC partner,   tweeted that it felt like ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Before the election, finding a Trump supporter in Silicon Valley   was exceptionally rare.  ’ ”   It shouldn’t have been. Almost half the voters in the United   States supported Trump on Tuesday. In San Francisco, one in   10 votes was cast for Trump. In Santa Clara county, home to a lot   of  giant tech companies, one in five votes went to   Trump. ” ’   As a Silicon Valley reporter, I personally spent over a month   trying to find someone who would speak about supporting Trump.   The one senior software engineer at a big tech company  refused to be identified publicly. He had already   faced contempt and shunning after telling his teammates at   work.  ’ ’   Most of the time when I asked a venture capitalist or a tech CEO   if they knew anyone who was for the Republican Presidential   nominee, I was met with laughter or a quick dismissal: ”Oh no, I   don’’t know anyone who would support him.” ’ ’   Many Silicon Valley leaders tried to stop a Trump presidency, and   most thought it had worked. ’ ”   The push started in the early fall when  signed a memo on how   Trump would be a disaster for innovation. Several others,   including LinkedIn founder  and Facebook cofounder  mobilized voting campaigns or donated   millions. It seemed like a foregone conclusion Hillary Clinton   would win, until it wasn’t. ” ”   Silicon Valley awoke to a world that hadn’t downloaded its   message.  ” ’  ’ ’   ”Kik CEO Ted Livingston told  right after the results. They ” you   ’ ”   Anybody who’s looked closely at Silicon Valley over the last   couple years should not have been surprised that a lot of its   leaders are completely out of touch with reality in a lot of the   country. ” ”   A startup Juicero raised $130 million and  in which people don’t eat enough fruits or   vegetables. Its first product? A $700   enabled juicer   that looks great on a kitchen counter but does very   little to help the very real problem of affordable access to   fruits and vegetables, especially in food deserts.  ” ’   Then there’’s the litany of other ”problems” Silicon Valley is   solving: private chefs   a startup to take out your   trash for you, or an app that connects people who are down   to lunch.  ’ ’   The silly ideas are easy to write down to the     differences between the rich and the poor, between Palo Alto   and podunk USA. ’ ”   But it’s more than cultural dissonance. ” ”   Silicon Valley missed that people from rural towns to   disenfranchised urban cores are truly hurting, in part because of   an industry that they’ve created.  ” ’   The death of manufacturing jobs in the US is  .   Silicon Valley pundits tell the people who are losing jobs   to technology and automation to learn new skills. Better yet,   become an Uber driver or rent out your spare bedroom on   Airbnb.  ’ ”   Meanwhile, tech leaders are already spinning the next wave of     job loss as job creation.  that the rise of     cars and trucks will mean more jobs, as people will be   needed to maintain the fleets and step in when the machines can’t   handle it. But that won’t be enough to account for the fact that   truck driver is the most common job in 29 states as of 2014,   according to . ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tthe   truck is all but in mass production at the moment and I just remembered this map  ’ ”   The trucking industry  since those   jobs can’t be exported to cheaper labor markets overseas, but now   it’s being automated.   cars and trucks are   coming. Another wave of job loss, like the end of manufacturing,   could be coming.  ” ’   Now imagine that scenario in all the other sectors that Silicon   Valley wants to conquer, like education and health care. Those   sectors employ millions. Will the tech companies looking to   ”disrupt” those industries to lower costs make any provision for   all the jobs their inventions will replace? ’ ”   The tech industry’s pet solution for the jobs lost to   automation is  the idea that the government should   give everybody free money to cover basic needs by food and   shelter. This shows zero understanding of the dignity that   people get from work  —   yes, even the menial jobs that don’t   involve writing code to serve advertisements or help people order   lunch to their desk at work. It could be a start, but it’s not   the   to the problem the tech industry might be hoping   for. ” ”   The momentum of change is in favor of globalization and   automation. It doesn’t make sense to   a bunch of phone   operators when our cell phones work just fine. The same will be   said some day for the   truck drivers and public transit   operators.  ” ”   Yet, the Trump election signaled to Silicon Valley that it’s time   to look outside the bubble. ” ”   Software has eaten the world, and this is what’s been vomited   back up.  ” ”   All of the talk about diversity in companies extends to     and political diversity as well. The reaction   to a Trump win shouldn’t be a time to advocate seceding from the   Union and creating a perfect California bubble. It should be   a time to figure out why people are hurting and trying to   solve big universal problems, not just   problems suffered by wealthy programmers and marketing   professionals in Silicon Valley.  ” ’   Peter Thiel, the only   Trump supporter in   Silicon Valley, summed it up to the  the best:  ’ ’   ” ’