’   Working class people from the Rust Belt played a large part   in getting Donald Trump elected earlier this   week.  ’ ”   Trump’s  as jobs moved overseas.   The Brexit campaign had similar success on the areas of Britain   that hadn’t shared in the prosperity of the UK capital,   London.  ” ”   This chart from $150 billion Bridgewater Associates, the world’s   biggest hedge fund, shows just how hard people across the US and   Europe have been hit by globalization, and the loss of jobs to   other countries and to technology.  ” ’  ’ ’   The graph is based on data from MIT economist David Autor   and shows how much   jobs, which generally   require some education after high school like community college   classes, have declined in the past 26 years. And it really   explains an awful lot. ’ ’   ”What this election highlighted more than anything is that there   are lot of people in this country who, regardless of their   political leanings, are hurting,” Jeffrey Solomon, CEO of Cowen   and Company, said in a note. ”Many who feel like their   voices haven’t been heard for a long time.”  ’ ’   Autor  and blue collar production, craft and   operative occupations.  ’ ’   In an April 2010 research document, Autor said: ”The decline in     jobs has been detrimental to the earnings and labor   force participation rates of workers without a   college   education, and differentially so for males, who are increasingly   concentrated in lowpaying service occupations.” ’ ’   Which populations tended to vote for Trump? White men, typically   over 45, typically without a college degree, who believe the   economy is in bad shape and . ’ ’   In the UK, it is a similar story. Brexit voters were    and . In other   words, the individuals who, in years gone by, may have taken up   an apprenticeship, and found their way into a     technical role, but have been replaced in recent years by   overseas labor or robots.  ’ ”   That’s not to say that these individuals haven’t benefitted from   globalization. Bridgewater estimates that the developed world has   seen a 0. 3% boost to annual growth, which over 40 years adds up   to incomes that are on average 12% higher.  ” ’ ’ ’   ”Yes, these workers have benefited from cheaper goods, but the   negatives, including job losses and stagnant incomes, are more   directly visible and easily attributable to global competition,”   Bridgewater’’s Jason Rotenberg and Jeff Amato wrote in a Friday   client note that was viewed by Business Insider. ’ ”   The benefits of globalization are indeed harder to feel.   Smartphones may be cheaper than they otherwise would be, for   instance, but that’s little consolation to someone who can’t   rely on the same line of work as his father. ” ’   Here is what Wall Street dealmaker : ’ ’   The disconnect is also a story of growing income inequality.   While the richest 5% of US households have seen incomes rise by   50% since 1990, incomes have barely grown for 80% of the   population, Bridgwater notes below. ’ ’  ’ ”   Bridgewater’s external PR firm Prosek Partners didn’t immediately   respond to requests for comment. ”