’  ’ ’     Around 11:30 on Tuesday night, I left CBS News studios in New     York City to take a walk and call my wife. We talked about the     election. We talked about the very real chance of President     Donald Trump. We talked, just to talk. But we didn’t talk long.     We had to do work. I had to write. And she had to figure out     what she would say to her students, many of them Hispanic, most     of them young children of immigrants.   ’ ’     Heading back, I walked past a conversation between two cops.     They were outside the building, on duty. They were black. And     out of some need to keep talking, I walked over and jumped into     their conversation. Neither officer questioned me or shooed me     away. Instead, they invited me to commiserate with them.   ’ ’     “I can’t believe this. I just can’t believe it,” said one of     the officers, the younger of the two. The other just shook his     head. I asked the younger officer what he thought about all of     this —  about President Donald Trump. “This is deep, man. This is     deep. Who am I supposed to be protecting now?” He looked down     at his uniform. “Why am I wearing this?” He didn’t need to     explain. The Donald Trump who won the presidency on Tuesday is     the Donald Trump who demanded execution for five boys, wrongly     accused of a crime. He is the Trump who ran on a platform of     “law and order. ” The age of Trump will be an age in which     police can act with impunity. And as an officer of color, he     knew, perhaps better than anyone, that it’s people who look     like us —  who are brown and black —  who will face the brunt of that     impunity.   ’ ’     Pundits and observers will attribute Trump’s win to “populism”     or his “ ” message. This is nonsense. Trump ran for     president as a nationalist fighter for white America. He     promised to deport Hispanic immigrants. He promised to ban     Muslims from the United States. He refused to acknowledge     Barack Obama’s legitimacy, casting him —  until the end —  as a kind     of usurper of rightful authority. When faced with the fetid     swamps of white reaction —  of white supremacists and white     nationalists and   —  he winked, and they cheered in     response. And for good reason.   ’ ’     More than anything, Trump promises a restoration of white     authority. After eight years of a black president —  after eight     years in which cosmopolitan America     asserted its power     and its influence, eight years in which     women leaned in and blacks declared that their lives     mattered —  millions of white Americans said enough. They had     their fill of this world and wanted the old one back. And     although it’s tempting to treat this as a function of some     colorblind   that cannot explain the unity of white     voters in this election. Trump didn’t just win       whites —  he won the   and the affluent. He even     won young whites. Seventeen months after he announced his     candidacy, millions of white Americans flocked to the ballot     box to put Trump into the White House. And they did so as a     white herrenvolk, racialized and radicalized by     Trump.   ’ ’  ’ ’     There’s an easy rejoinder here: How can this be about     race when Trump won some Obama voters? There’s an     equally easy answer: John McCain indulged racial fears, and     Mitt Romney played on racial resentment, but they refused to go     further. To borrow from George Wallace, they refused to cry     “nigger. ” This is important. By rejecting the politics of     explicit racism and white backlash, they moved the political     battleground to nominally colorblind concerns. Race was still a     part of these clashes —  it’s unavoidable —  but neither liberals nor     conservatives would litigate the idea of a pluralistic,     multiracial democracy. Looking back, I thought this meant we     had a consensus. It appears, instead, that we had     a detente. And Trump shattered it. With his     jeremiads against Hispanics and Muslims —  with his visions of     dystopian cities and radicalized refugees —  Trump told white     Americans that their fears and anger were justified. And that     this fear and anger should drive their     politics. Trump forged a politics of white tribalism, and white     people embraced it.   ’ ’     Here’s what we need to understand: This has happened before.     For 10 brief years after the Civil War, a coalition of       and white farmers worked to forge democracy in the     former Confederacy. With the help of the federal government,     they scored real victories and made significant gains. But     their success spurred a backlash of angry whites, furious at     sharing power with blacks and their Northern allies, murderous     at the very idea of social equality. Those whites fought a war     against Reconstruction governments, and when they won, they     declared the South redeemed.   ’ ’     Trump forged a politics of white tribalism, and white people     embraced it.   ’ ’  ’ ’     Decades later, another group of blacks and whites —  this time in     North Carolina —  banded together to topple reactionaries and     establish democracy. For a short moment, they succeeded.     Working together as “fusionists,” they built schools, brought     relief, and established true representative government in the     South. And the backlash came. Some whites would relinquish     white supremacy. Most wouldn’t. Using violence and terrorism,     they toppled the fusionists and established a rigid white rule     that would last into the 20 century,     eventually dismantled during our Second Reconstruction, the     civil rights movement.   ’ ’     As soon as that Reconstruction ended, there was a backlash. But     it wasn’t as strong as previous ones. It brought leaders who     nodded to problems of racism and racial discrimination, even as     they played on white fears and white anxieties. After years of     struggle, we had come to some agreement: We believed in     equality. And when a black man won the presidency —  the symbolic     pinnacle of white power and white prerogative —  we celebrated as     a nation.   ’ ’     Fifty years after the black freedom movement forced the United     States to honor its ideals, at least on paper, it’s clear this     was premature. Like clockwork, white Americans embraced a man     who promised a kind of supremacy. We haven’t left our long     cycle of progress and backlash. We are still the country that     produced George Wallace. We are still the country that killed     Emmett Till.   ’ ’     Americans are stubbornly, congenitally optimistic. And the     millions who backed Trump see something in his visage.     Something that gives them hope. Here’s what I see. I see a man     who empowered white nationalists and won. I see a man who     demanded the removal of nonwhite immigrants and won. I see a     man who pledged war crimes against foreign enemies and won. I     see a man who empowers the likes of Rudy Giuliani and others     who see blacks as potential criminals to control, not citizens     to respect.   ’ ’     After the redemption of the South, black Americans —  and     nonwhites around the country —  faced the nadir. Whites imposed     new kinds of discrimination and turned a blind eye to the     pogroms and racial terrorism that was scarring the American     landscape.   ’ ’     In a few hours, millions of Americans will wake up in the age     of Trump. I, and millions who look like me, will open our eyes     to a second redemption. We can only hope —  we can only pray —  that     we won’t reach a new nadir.   ’