’  ’ ’   It’’s not exactly surprising that a partner of a venture capital   firm with a tagline that ”” thinks the same could be said for the   drug industry. ’ ”   Vijay Pande, a general partner at Andreessen Horowitz, runs the   firm’s bio fund. So far, the fund’s made investments in companies   including Freenome, which is developing a blood test that   screens for the earliest signs of cancer,  a startup that wants to quantify the   human physiology. ” ”   Pande’s argument, as he explained to Business Insider, is that as     gets better, we might be able to start   replacing physical pills (the hardware) with software. At   least in part. And where medicines (think: antibiotics) can’t get   replaced, we might be able to get the right treatment options to   the right people. ” ’   There are three areas in particular where he says we could see   this happen: ’ ”   Of course, this     argument is   integral to Andreessen Horowitz’s   investments. Omada   Health, a company the firm invests in, is an online platform that   helps people manage chronic conditions, particularly Type 2   diabetes. It’s one of the ways Pande thinks a program could   replace a pill, namely metformin, a drug used to control blood   sugar levels. ” ’’ ”   For example, when a person first gets diagnosed with type 2   diabetes, they may be prescribed to use Omada at first. If that   isn’t able to help on its own, they could be given metformin as   well. ” ’   These changes won’’t be abrupt and will work within the existing   healthcare system, Pande says. We’’re not necessarily going to see   all the pills leave the shelves, nor will drug companies go out   of business because all of their investments will be in   ”hardware.” He likens it to   cars that still have to   drive on the same roads we’’re using now. That means there will be   room for drug companies to find ways to work with these     startups. ’ ’   ”Software eating the world is part of it,” he says. ”But there’s   no reason why they can’t come along for the ride.” ’