’  ’ ”   Donald Trump’s campaign manager warned outgoing Senate Minority   Leader that he should be careful in his criticism of the new    . ” ’   In a statement on Friday, Reid  condemning the     mogul for stoking fear among minority groups and   emboldening ”the forces of hate and bigotry in America.” ’ ’   ”If this is going to be a time of healing, we must first put the   responsibility for healing where it belongs: at the feet of   Donald Trump, a sexual predator who lost the popular vote and   fueled his campaign with bigotry and hate,” Reid said. ’ ’   ”Winning the electoral college does not absolve Trump of the   grave sins he committed against millions of Americans. Donald   Trump may not possess the capacity to assuage those fears, but he   owes it to this nation to try.” ’ ’   In an appearance on ”Fox News Sunday,” Conway characterized   Reid’’s comments as ”beyond the pale,” and suggested that the   Nevada senator be careful ”in a legal sense” about the way he   described Trump. ’ ’’ ’   ”They’’re incredibly disappointing. Talk about not wanting   my children to listen to somebody,” Conway said. ’ ’   She added: ”And he should be very careful about characterizing   someone in a legal sense. He thinks that he’’s just being some   kind of political pundit here, but I would say be very careful   about how you characterize that.” ’ ’   When host Chris Wallace pressed Conway over whether she was   suggesting Trump would sue Reid, presumably for defamation, the   former campaign manager backpedaled. ’ ’   ”I’’m not suggesting that at all. I’’m calling for responsibility   and maturity and decency from someone who has held one of the   highest positions in our government,” Conway said. ’ ”   Though many of the left have  Reid for continuing to voice Democratic opposition to   Trump, others congressional Democrats have distanced   themselves from the outgoing minority leader’s comments. ” ’   ”I want to be very clear, he does not speak for me. As difficult   as it is for anyone to lose an election, the American people have   spoken and Donald Trump is our  . Senator Reid’s   words needlessly feed the very divisiveness that is tearing this   country apart,” West Virginia Sen. Joe Manchin . ’