’  ’ ’   Prosecutors in New York have charged two executives over a    meant to inflate the value of a   specialty pharmacy before it was sold to Valeant Pharmaceuticals. ’ ” but the charges filed so far are putting   the focus on a man who worked for both Valeant and Philidor, the   specialty pharmacy that was selling Valeant’s products directly   to patients.   ” ’   Gary Tanner was arrested early Thursday morning, along with   Philidor CEO Andrew Davenport.  ’ ’   Valeant broke off its relationship with Philidor in October 2015,   after it   ’ ”   The charges allege that Tanner was integral to bolstering   Valeant’s relationship with Philidor, which ultimately led to   Valeant purchasing a $100 million option to acquire Philidor   and resulted in Tanner . It also alleges that he did   this amid   from the executives he reported to who   suspected he might have a financial interest in Philidor, and   while under a code of conduct that prohibited him from having any   conflicts of interest.  ” ’  ’ ’   Tanner worked at Medicis from 2010, and moved to Valeant when it   acquired Medicis in 2012. Tanner was in charge of the   company’’s ”” strategy as part of the Access Solutions Team. That AF   strategy was meant to help boost the number of prescriptions   Medicis and later Valeant were able to fill in cases where   insurers weren’’t willing to cover the drug (for example, if there   was a much cheaper ). ’ ’   The criminal charges report that Valeant described Tanner as ”key   organization talent.” ’ ”   This isn’t the first time Tanner’s been in the spotlight. In   November 2015,  in for interviews.   ” ’   ”Mr. Tanner has been identified by former Philidor employees   as ’’a key figure in the pharmacy’s operations. ’’ These former   employees also report being directed to alter     prescriptions so pharmacies would have to   dispense Valeant drugs instead of cheaper generic versions   in order to maximize Valeant’s profits,” Rep. Elijah Cummings   said in a letter at the time.  ’ ’   After the charges came out Thursday, Cummings said in a   statement: ’ ’   Tanner moved to Philidor in August (though the lawsuit alleges   that he had been asked if he wanted to move before) after being   terminated by Valeant. ’ ’   The criminal charges detail how Tanner allegedly used his   position at Valeant to, alongside Davenport, engaged ”in an   illegal, concealed kickback scheme that they hoped would yield   them tens of millions of dollars in personal profits.” ’ ’   Through his role overseeing the AF program, Tanner helped build   up Philidor as a specialty pharmacy, even though Valeant already   had a health care provider that was doing roughly the same thing.   To start, that included a $2 million program with Philidor that   would help support the pharmacy, which was new at the time.  ’ ’   ”We both know that this endeavor would face a nearly   insurmountable uphill struggle to succeed in the present Valeant   environment without your confident support and the efforts of   your team,” Davenport said in an email to Tanner in August 2013.   ”I don’’t want you to think that fact will escape my mind for a   moment as we continue to build and refine this business.” ’ ”   As that program grew, Tanner pushed back against executives who   asked him to diversify the AF program so that Valeant wouldn’t be   solely reliant on Philidor. He was also asked to try to expand   the AF program to other pharmacies, which he agreed to do.   However, those didn’t materialize, according to the charges. ” ”   Tanner invited Valeant employees to check out Philidor, which led   to one executive questioning Tanner’s close relationship with   Philidor. This also led the executive to believe Tanner had   equity in the company. Tanner denied having any equity in   Valeant, and turned down opportunities to work directly at   Philidor.  ” ’   What Valeant didn’’t know, according to the charges, was that   Tanner was communicating with Davenport on the sly.   Tanner used a secret email where he went by ”Brian Wilson,”   Tanner would communicate with Davenport.  ’ ’   The charges also allege that Tanner used his position to get   competitive information for Philidor from competing pharmacies,   which he then passed on to Davenport.  ’ ”   Tanner later helped organize Valeant’s purchasing of an option in   Philidor. With that agreement, Davenport made $40 million, of   which Tanner got $10 million.  ” ’   Tanner received that $10 million into an account titled   ”Befrielse Consolidation” (the word ”befrielse,” translated into   Swedish means ”exemption”). Tanner used this account for   personal expenses, such as paying off debts and saving for   retirement. He also spent $50, 000 on a wine cellar, according to   the complaint.  ’ ’   After that went through, Tanner continued to help Philidor out.   The charges note a situation where Valeant wanted to collect $50   million from Philidor, in which Tanner was able to delay the   payment by a week.  ’ ”   Davenport replied, to Tanner’s Brian Wilson email account: ” ’   ”They are too deep in our s**t. Can picture our butch and   sundance ride into the sunset (or off the cliff as in the flick)   as our wiggle   to operate independently gets whittled   down to nothing.” ’