’  ’ ’   I would like to express my gratitude to Jared Kushner for   reviving interest in my 2006 book, “” I   have never met or spoken with him, and it’s rare in this life to   find such a selfless benefactor. Of course, I doubt he became   Donald Trump’s    and  merely to boost my   lagging sales, but still, I’m thankful. ’ ’   My book exposed a grubby secret of American higher education:   that the rich buy their   children’s way into elite   universities with massive,   donations. It reported   that New Jersey real estate developer Charles Kushner had pledged   $2. 5 million to Harvard University in 1998, not long before his   son Jared was admitted to the prestigious Ivy League school. At   the time, Harvard accepted about one of every nine applicants.   (Nowadays, it only takes one out of twenty.) ’ ’   I also quoted administrators at Jared’s high school, who   described him as a less than stellar student and expressed dismay   at Harvard’s decision. ’ ’   “There was no way anybody in the administrative office of the   school thought he would on the merits get into Harvard,” a former   official at The Frisch School in Paramus, New Jersey, told me.   “His GPA did not warrant it, his SAT scores did not warrant it.   We thought for sure, there was no way this was going to happen.   Then, lo and behold, Jared was accepted. It was a little bit   disappointing because there were at the time other kids we   thought should really get in on the merits, and they did not. ” ’ ’   Risa Heller, a spokeswoman for Kushner Companies, said in an   email Thursday that “the allegation” that Charles Kushner’s gift   to Harvard was related to Jared’s admission “is and always has   been false. ” His parents, Charles and Seryl Kushner, “are   enormously generous and have donated over 100 million dollars to   universities, hospitals and other charitable causes. Jared   Kushner was an excellent student in high school and graduated   from Harvard with honors. ” (About 90 percent of Jared’s 2003   class at Harvard also graduated with honors.) ’ ’  ’ ’   My Kushner discoveries were an offshoot of my research for a   chapter on Harvard donors. Somebody had slipped me a document I   had long coveted: the membership list of Harvard’s Committee on   University Resources. The university wooed more than 400 of its   biggest givers and most promising prospects by putting them on   this committee and inviting them to campus periodically to be   wined, dined, and subjected to lectures by eminent professors. ’ ’   My idea was to figure out how many children of these corporate   titans, oil barons, money managers, lawyers,     consultants and   heirs had gone to Harvard. A   disproportionate tally might suggest that the university eased   its standards for the offspring of wealthy backers. ’ ’   I began working through the list, poring over “Who’s Who in   America” and Harvard class reunion reports for family   information. Charles and Seryl Kushner were both on the   committee. I had never heard of them, but their joint presence   struck me as a sign that Harvard’s fundraising machine held the   couple in especially fond regard. ’ ’   The clips showed that Charles Kushner’s empire encompassed 25, 000   New Jersey apartments, along with extensive office, industrial   and retail space and undeveloped land. Unlike most of his fellow   committee members, though, Kushner was not a Harvard man. He had   graduated from New York University. This eliminated the   sentimental tug of the alma mater as a reason for him to give to   Harvard, leaving another likely explanation: his children. ’ ’   Sure enough, his sons Jared and Joshua had both enrolled there. ’ ’   Charles Kushner differed from his peers on the committee in   another way; he had a criminal record. Five years after Jared   entered Harvard, the elder Kushner pleaded guilty in 2004 to tax   violations, illegal campaign donations, and retaliating against a   witness. (As it happens, the prosecutor in the case was Chris   Christie,  as the head of   Trump’s transition team.) Charles Kushner  who was cooperating with federal   authorities. Kushner then had a videotape of the tryst sent to   his sister. He was sentenced to two years in federal prison. ’ ’   I completed my analysis, which justified my hunch. Of the     tycoons on Harvard’s list  —   which included people who   were childless or too young to have   offspring  —   more   than half had sent at least one child to the university. ’ ’  ’ ’   I also decided that the   relationship deserved   special attention. Although the university often heralded big   gifts in press releases or a bulletin called  —   in a classic   example of fundraising wit, “Re:sources”  —   a search of these   outlets came up empty. Harvard didn’t seem eager to be publicly   associated with Charles Kushner. ’ ’   While looking into Kushner’s taxes, though, federal authorities   had subpoenaed records of his charitable giving. I learned that   in 1998, when Jared was attending The Frisch School and starting   to look at colleges, his father had pledged $2. 5 million to   Harvard, to be paid in annual installments of $250, 000. Charles   Kushner also visited Neil Rudenstine, then Harvard president, and   discussed funding a scholarship program for   and     students. ’ ’   I phoned a Harvard official, with whom I was on friendly terms.   First I asked whether the gift played any role in Jared’s   admission. “You know we don’t comment on individual applicants,”   he said. When I pressed further, he hung up. We haven’t spoken   since. ’ ’   At Harvard, Jared Kushner majored in government. Now the      is poised to become the power behind the presidency.   What he plans to do, and in what direction he and his      will lead the country, are far more important than   his high school grades. ’