’  ’ ’   Just days after Donald Trump won the presidential election,   people around the country  to document instances of bullying and   harassment that sprang up in American schools. ’ ’   Parents  about the verbal and physical abuse their   children suffered. Students recorded videos of  in the halls. ’ ’   Through all of this, educators have been the ones   expected to find teachable moments, handle insensitivity   with grace, and remind their students how members of a civil   society ought to treat one another. ’ ’   Business Insider spoke with three such teachers. Each teaches a   different subject, at a different grade level, and in a different   part of the US. They shared their fears about teaching in a Trump   America and how they plan to confront the intolerance that   many people fear the election has legitimized. ’ ’ Allan DeCarlo, 52, 11th & 12th grade history and   government in upstate New York ’ ’’ ”   The morning after Trump was declared   DeCarlo was   not looking forward to going to school. Many of his students   in Pittsford, a suburb of Rochester, were Hillary   supporters, so he knew they’d take the results hard. ” ’   ”I found kids in tears, and more than anything else my   reassurance came in the form of a hug,” DeCarlo tells Business   Insider. He compares the somber mood to the one following the   attacks on September 11th. ’ ”   For that reason, DeCarlo says his biggest fear is that his   students will no longer feel safe and protected at school.   Shortly after the election, he said several gay and Muslim   students came to him asking to be excused from the   school’s planned field trip to Washington DC for Inauguration   Day. He tried to assure them that he would stand near them at all   times and make sure nothing bad happened.  ” ’   ”Our job is going to be to help kids heal through this,” he says.   ”I’’m going to have to assure them that we still have people who   will look out for their best interest.” ’ ’ Angel Corral, 28, 10th & 11th grade science   in Oakland, California ’ ”   Roughly 80% of the 250 students at Corral’s school are Latino,   and about a dozen are undocumented, she says. Trump’s   promises of deportation have her worried about how to talk   to kids whose families could get taken from their homes,   especially as many students  —   some of whom are the   first in their family to attend high school  —   begin to prepare   for college. ” ’   ”As a teacher, I need to be able to create a container than can   hold my students’’ emotions,” she tells Business Insider. ”But the   next steps after that are not so clear to me.” ’ ”   Corral says the school has been diligent about giving students a   safe space to share their feelings, and even brought in   psychology students from nearby UC Berkeley to help kids cope. As   for the   posts documenting hate crimes, however,   she’s just happy that hasn’t happened to any of her students. ” ’   ”Luckily, we have a pretty diverse student population and have   built this empathy with each other,” she says. ’ ’ Diana* 27, 2nd grade in southern Missouri ’ ’ *Because the town where she works is very small, the   teacher we are calling Diana did not want to share her real name   or the name of the town. ’ ”   The world is small for many people in Diana’s community.   Lots of her students go to the same Baptist or Christian   church. There are no stoplights in the whole town. Everyone is   white. ” ’   When Trump won the election, Diana says she was devastated.   Personally, she’’d hoped for a different outcome, but doubly so   for her students. ” ’ ”   She knows the kids are parroting what they hear, and says   she feels an enormous pressure to open their eyes to the   world beyond their home town. With Trump as president, she   worries her kids won’t be exposed to many new ideas. ” ’  ’