’The highly anticipated ”Star Wars” Han Solo anthology film is beginning production and we can’’t wait to see our favorite space scoundrel as a youngster.’ ”Though the movie (which doesn’t even have a title yet) doesn’t come out until 2018, there’s a lot of news about it that we can delve into as we wait for the date to get closer.” ”There’s the duo directing the movie, the raising star who will be filling Harrison Ford’s boots, the popular stars in supporting roles, and more.” ’Below is everything we know so far about the movie.’ ’Lord and Miller are the hottest commodities in Hollywood at the moment.’ ’Since their successful debut, ”Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs,” they have done ”21 Jump Street” and its sequel, ”The Lego Movie,” and are the executive producers of the hit TV show ”The Last Man on Earth. ”’ ’Lord and Miller have by their side one of the main storytellers of the ”Star Wars” saga, Lawrence Kasdan, along with his son, Jon.’ ’Lawrence is responsible for penning ”The Empire Strikes Back,” ”Return of the Jedi,” and ”The Force Awakens. ”’ ’ ’ ’Alden beat out a collection of established names and unknowns to win the role.’ ’He’’s known at the moment for his breakthrough role in the Coen brother’’s ”Hail, Caesar!” and currently in the Warren Beatty movie, ”Rules Don’’t Apply. ”’ ’Glover is coming off his hit first season of ”Atlanta” to take on the role that was immortalized by Billy Dee Williams.’ ’You may not know the name  but you are likely aware of his work.’ ’Most recently he was responsibly for the gorgeous shots in the   movie ”Arrival.” He was also DP on ”Selma” and ”A Most Violent Year. ”’ ’We know her best as Daenerys Targaryen in ”Game of Thrones,” but Emilia Clarke is headed to the ”Star Wars” saga.’ ”It was  that Clarke has been cast in the Han Solo movie. There are no details yet on who she will be playing, but we wouldn’t be surprised if she causes a rivalry between Han and Lando for her affection.” ”The Wookiee will certainly be there. Lucasfilm president Kathleen Kennedy told  last year that Chewbacca will definitely be Han Solo’s wingman in the movie.”