’  ’ ’     Donald Trump received renewed scrutiny over the   past few days as observers questioned his ability to separate   business ties from the office of the presidency following two   questionable meetings he held. ’ ’   The Manhattan billionaire met last week in his Trump Tower office   with three Indian business partners who are building a     apartment complex near Mumbai, . ’ ’   The three men posed with Trump in a picture posted to Twitter,   and a spokeswoman for the Trump Organization described the   meeting as a courtesy call from the three executives. ’ ’   ”It was not a formal meeting of any kind,” Breanna Butler, the   spokeswoman, told The Times. ’ ”   In a text message exchange with The Times, one of the three   businessmen said that a report in an Indian newspaper about   another partner discussing a desire to expand the deals with   Trump’s family was true. ” ’   Butler said the   would not be involved in the      dealings of the Trump Organization, while another   spokeswoman  ”the structure that is ultimately   selected will comply with all applicable rules and regulations.” ’ ”   The meeting wasn’t the only one that raised questions about how   Trump will separate his business dealings from his work as   president  —   a subject of frequent concern during the campaign. ” ”   During a meeting last week with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo   Abe, Trump’s daughter Ivanka, an executive vice president in the   Trump Organization, was photographed sitting in on the discussion   between the two leaders. ” ’   At various points along the campaign trail, the     said his business would be controlled by his children in what he   said was a ”blind trust,” even though that constitutes an   independent manager, not someone as closely tied to Trump as his   children. ’ ’   Ivanka sitting through the meeting only further blurred the lines   between the business empire and the upcoming Trump presidency. ’ ’   According to a Sunday  at least 111 separate   Trump companies have conducted business in 18 countries across   South America, the Middle East, and Asia. Pointing specifically   to a Trump Towers project in Istanbul, something that Trump at   one point said could present ”a little conflict of interest,” The   Post wrote that ”policy and ethics experts are scrambling to   assess the potential dangers of public rule by a leader with a   vast web of private business deals.” ’ ’  ’ ’   The biggest legal risk Trump faces as a result of his business   ties is a passage in the Constitution known as the emoluments   clause, which forbids government officials from receiving gifts   from a foreign government. ’ ’   As The Post noted, a payment from a foreign official or     company to a Trump hotel or other company bearing his   name could potentially violate the cause. So could favorable   legislation or treatment overseas from a government aimed at   benefiting a Trump property. ’ ’   ”You were elected to the presidency with a promise to eliminate   improper business influence in Washington,” a group of ethics   advisers wrote in a Thursday letter to Trump. ”There is no way to   square your campaign commitments to the American people  —   and   your even higher, ethical duties as their president  —   with the   rampant, inescapable conflicts that will engulf your presidency   if you maintain connections with the Trump Organization.” ’ ’   Alan Garten, Trump Organization executive vice president and   general counsel, told The Post in a September interview that the   control of the companies would be passed to his children, and the   final arrangement ”will comply with all applicable rules and   regulations.” ’ ’   During a gaggle with reporters in Trump Tower in New York on   Monday, top Trump aide Kellyanne Conway said she is ”very   confident he’’s not breaking any laws,” and that he has lawyers   and advisers who are telling him ”what he must do and what he   can’’t do.” ’ ”   Earlier on Monday, Sen. Tom Carper of Delaware, the ranking   member of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs   Committee, wrote a letter to the Office of Government Ethics   requesting information on how the office plans to address   potential conflicts of interest regarding Trump’s business   empire. ” ’   ”The full extent of his financial interests remains unclear, in   part because he was the first presidential candidate in modern   history to decline to release his tax returns to the American   public,” the Delaware Democrat wrote. ”These unique circumstances   raise important questions about how the administration of     Trump will avoid conflicts of interest and ensure   integrity of executive branch programs and operations.” ’