’  ’ ”   Earlier this week, a post written by programmer and   teacher Bill Sourour went viral. It’s called  ” ’   In it he recounts a horrible story of being a young programmer   who landed a job building a website for a pharmaceutical company.   The whole post is worth a read, but the upshot is he was duped   into helping the company skirt drug advertising laws in order to   persuade young women to take a particular drug.  ’ ’   He later found out the drug was known to worsen depression   and at least one young woman committed suicide while taking it.   He found out his sister was taking the drug and warned her off   it. ’ ’   Decades later, he still feels guilty about it, he told Business   Insider. And he was inspired to write the post after he viewed a   talk by Robert Martin, called ”.” Martin is a       programmer and speaker better known as   ”Uncle Bob.”   ’ ’   Martin argues in that talk that software developers better figure   out how to   themselves and fast. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Let’’s decide what it means to be a programmer,”Martin says in   the video. ”Civilization depends on us. Civilization doesn’’t   understand this yet.” ’ ”   His point is that in today’s world, everything we do like buying   things, making a phone call, driving cars, flying in planes,   involves software. And dozens of people  while   hundreds of people  during air   travel.  ” ’   ”We are killing people,” Martin says. ”We did not get into this   business to kill people. And this is only getting worse.” ’ ’   He pointed out that ”there are hints” that developers will   increasingly face some real heat in the years to come. He   cited Volkswagen America’’s CEO, Michael Horn,  during a Congressional   hearing, claimed the coders had acted on their own ”for   whatever reason.” Horn  after  of making this decision at   the highest levels and then trying to cover it up. ’ ’  ’ ’   But Martin pointed out, ”The weird thing is, it was software   developers who wrote that code. It was us. Some programmers wrote   cheating code. Do you think they knew? I think they probably   knew.” ’ ’   Martin finished with a    call to action in   which he warned that one day, some software developer will do   something that will cause a disaster that kills tens of   thousands of people. ’ ”   But Sourour points out that it’s not just about   accidentally killing people or deliberately polluting the air.   Software has already been used by Wall Street firms to   manipulate . ” ’   ”This could not happen without some shady code that creates fake   orders,”Sourour says.  ’ ’   Sourour’’s ”ashamed” post went viral on    and  and it unleashed a long list of confessions from   programmers about the unethical and, sometimes, illegal things   they’’ve been asked to do. ’ ’   One  working for a company that signed people up   for its email newsletters even after they opted out (which could   be a violation of federal law). Programmers then wrote scripts to   help the company’’s salespeople target these people. When this guy   confronted the CTO about how unethical this was, he was told   to stand down. And now, he says, these same programmers are    ”working on startups that scoop up massive amounts of   people’’s location data.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Another programmer was hired to write software for a radio device   and  make it use channels reserved for emergency   services because this would make the device operate   faster. ”Quicker but illegal, and obstructive to emergency   communications,” he said. He refused to do it but says, ”there’’s   always an engineer willing” to simply follow orders. ’ ’   One  he was handed some code that had been   copied from a competitor’’s website and was asked to build on it   ”just for a demo for investors,” his bosses told him. He felt   like he was being asked to defraud the investors. ’ ’   Another  of being asked to alter a backup of some   financial data and to   the   report, by restoring   the altered backup. This programmer refused as did this   person’’s supervisor. ”Watched that client get arrested for tax   evasion a couple years later.” ’ ’ he was, just recently, asked to target children   by making ”a gambling game disguised as a       strategy game aimed for kids . ..  I   don’’t work there anymore either.” ’ ”   A common theme among these stories was that if the developer says   no to such requests, the company will just find someone else do   it. That may be true for now, but it’s still a   Martin   points out. ” ’   ”We rule the world,” he said. ”We don’’t know it yet. Other people   believe they rule the world but they write down the rules and   they hand them to us. And then we write the rules that go into   the machines that execute everything that happens.” ’ ”   And he warned, if programmers don’t start to govern themselves,   after that apocalypse event that kills thousands of people   occurs, legislators will do it for them, dictating everything   about their jobs, down to the languages they are allowed to use. ” ”   The obvious solution is to teach ethics courses. And they are   pretty much mandatory for every   computer science   student. The bible of this college course is author Sara Baase’s    ” ’  ’ ’   ”Unfortunately, many of today’s software developers are     or are learning through   ’’coding   bootcamps,’’” says Sourour. ’ ’   ”These rarely, if ever, include any kind of ethics training. The   focus is on pumping out people who can write code as fast as   possible to satisfy a growing and insatiable market for coding   skills,” he adds. ’ ’   Sourour is calling for all bootcamps and online training sites to   ”start talking about the ethical responsibilities that come along   with writing code,” he says. ’ ’   But what developers really need is an organization   that governs and regulates their profession like other   industries have, both Martin and Sourour believe. Currently   nothing like that exists although both the  and the  have made   a start, with ethics documents and, in some cases, training. ’