’  ’ ’   My family often makes fun of me for being overly effusive in   restaurants: ’ ’ Oh, thank you so much for bringing the bread  —   we really   appreciate it! Water? I love water! Thank you for being so   kind! ’ ’   Though no one in my family has ever said it explicitly, I imagine   part of the reason they find it so hilarious is that I hardly   ever show them so much gratitude. ’ ’   Not even for oh, say, bringing me into this world and putting a   roof over my head for 18 years. ’ ’   So I had a quiet ”aha!” moment while reading Janice Kaplan’’s   ”,” in which she chronicles her yearlong   effort to show more appreciation in different areas of her life. ’ ’   Before writing ”The Gratitude Diaries,” Kaplan, a journalist who   was formerly the editor of Parade magazine, helped conduct    on   Americans’’ gratitude habits. ’ ’   Results showed that 97% of respondents said they would express   gratitude to a server in a nice restaurant (guilty as charged).   But how many women said they regularly thanked their husbands?   Just 48%. ’ ’   In the book, Kaplan writes that she gets it  —   we have way higher   expectations for our partners than we do for waiters. Beyond   that, she suspects we also get so used to our partner being there   for us that we generally forget to appreciate it. ’ ’ Simply making the effort to say ”thank you” can   breathe new life into a tired relationship. ’ ’  ’ ’   When she visited the Business Insider offices in August, Kaplan   told us: ’ ’   During the first month of her gratitude experiment, Kaplan   focused on appreciating her husband. ’ ”   She’d thank him for driving them home from a party or fixing a   leaky faucet  —   and he’d be confused, because he always does those   things. ” ’   ”I know you do,” Kaplan would tell him. ”But I appreciate it.” ’ ”   As Business Insider’s  psychologists have known for a   while that couples who express gratitude toward each other are   more likely to stay together. In fact, thanking your partner even   once can bring you two closer months later. ” ”   That’s possibly because a single act of gratitude  of gratitude and generosity: You thank your   partner, so your partner feels appreciated and invests more in   the relationship, which in turn makes you feel more grateful to   them. ” ’ ’ ’   Perhaps the part of ”The Gratitude Diaries” that struck me most   was a scene Kaplan describes in which her husband, a doctor, is   rushing off in the middle of the night to treat a sick patient. ’ ”   Typically, Kaplan writes, she’d be frustrated and angry that her   husband was leaving at that hour. But during her gratitude   experiment, she pushed herself to find the reason to be grateful. ” ’   So she told him: ’ ”   To me, this scene reflects how showing gratitude to the people   we’re closest to can take more effort than thanking the barista   at Starbucks. It requires seeing the person in a new light  —   or   simply seeing them at all. ” ’   But that effort can pay big dividends. Kaplan writes that her   small acts of gratitude appeared to change her overall marriage   for the better. ’ ”   In the book she mentions one professor of marriage and family   therapy who told her that every day he emails his wife thanking   her for something. It doesn’t have to be anything huge  —   thanking   her for running errands when he was busy is fine. ” ”   The point is to make gratitude a habit so that, eventually, you   don’t have to think about it  —   it’s just the default lens through   which you see your partner’s everyday behaviors. ”