’  ’ ”   Some of   Donald Trump’s most loyal allies publicly   cautioned him this week against selecting Mitt Romney as   secretary of state. ” ”   The allies  —   Sean Hannity, Newt Gingrich, and Mike Huckabee  —   all   warned Trump about the possibility that Romney, the 2012   Republican presidential nominee, would not be loyal to him while   serving in the nation’s top diplomatic post. ” ’   Hannity, who seemingly supports former New York City Mayor Rudy   Giuliani for the post, said on his Fox News program Tuesday night   that he ”cannot understand” why Trump would consider Romney in   light of the criticism he unleashed on Trump during the campaign. ’ ’   ”The one speech in particular, it was brutal, eviscerating Donald   Trump,” Hannity said, referring to an  Romney delivered during the   primary season. ’ ’   ”Why would anybody think about bringing this guy in, and how   would you ever expect him to be loyal in light of how he acted?”   he added. ’ ’’ ’   Gingrich agreed, suggesting on ”Fox and Friends” on Wednesday   that the former Massachusetts governor could go rogue if selected   for the position. ’ ’   ”Gov. Romney wanted to be president, not secretary of state, and   you have to ask the question: When he goes overseas is he going   to be the secretary of state for President Trump, or is he going   to be Mitt Romney’’s own secretary of state?” Gingrich said. ’ ’   The former House speaker said ”there are a lot of other people   who are more qualified than Romney” who could serve as secretary   of state. He hinted when  on   Monday that he favors Giuliani over Romney for the position. ’ ’   Huckabee took things a step further, saying on ”Fox and Friends”   on Wednesday that Romney should have to go ”to a microphone in a   very public place and repudiate everything he said” about Trump   during the election season. ’ ’   Otherwise, the former Arkansas governor said, ”it would be a real   insult to all those Donald Trump voters who worked really hard”   and were loyal to him as a   candidate. ’ ’   Romney met with Trump last weekend to discuss a possible   appointment as secretary of state. CNN reported Tuesday night   that Romney was  in such a capacity. ’ ’   Trump was also considering Giuliani for the position, but his   nomination may face a more perilous road being confirmed by the   Senate. Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul, a Republican,  Trump against selecting him   for the position. ’