’  ’ ’   As 3 a. m. was closing in on election night, Ron Ferrance sat in a   crowded party for local Republican volunteers in the small town   of Dallas, Pennsylvania. ’ ’   The sun was on the cusp of rising. But Ferrance, the chair   of the Luzerne County Republican Party, said no one was leaving. ’ ’   Against all odds, the volunteers knew what was about to   happen: Republican nominee Donald Trump was going to become     Pennsylvania would be the state that put him   over the top, and their county played a monumental role in doing   so. ’ ’   ”It was one hell of a feeling,” Ferrance told Business Insider.   ”It was a good night. I’’ve worked on enough losing campaigns, so   it was nice to put that one away.” ’ ”   Trump’s win was the biggest political upset he’d ever seen. ” ’   ”Oh, absolutely,”  said. ”I’’m 46 years old,   so I don’’t know if it’’s going to get bigger than this again   before I move on from this world. But it’’s the biggest I’’ve   seen.” ’ ’   More than 1, 100 miles away, Nick DiCeglie had his ”wow moment”   almost a full 24 hours earlier. ’ ’   DiCeglie is the chair of the Pinellas County Republican Party, a   linchpin county in Trump’’s Florida victory. He knew the signs   were there for a ”big day” at 8:15 a. m. on Election Day. ’ ’   ”We keep track of the absentee ballots being returned, tried to   see where we were,” he said. ”Going into Election Day [2012] we   were down about 326 votes. This time we were down, I want to say   a little over 700. We didn’’t translate that to being down double,   we knew we were going to have a big Election Day, knew   Republicans were going to turn out, because we had a state poll   that showed 62% of Republicans were going to vote on Election   Day.” ’ ’   ”That being said, by 8:15, we went from being down 725 votes to   being up by over 2, 000,” he continued. ”And at that point, we   were like hang on tight, this is going ot be a big day. By 4:00,   we were up over 10, 000 votes from just Election Day.” ’ ”   Both Ferrance’s and DiCeglie’s counties flipped from their 2012   vote margins in favor of President Barack Obama by more than   31, 000 votes to favor Trump. Trump won the two states by a   roughly 188, 000 votes combined. ” ’   It was  where the margin of victory for Trump was as   thin as can be in some  —   so much so that Michigan has yet to be   officially called  —   that he won the presidency. ’ ’   In those states, only a handful of counties made the difference   between what could have been, and what was expected  —   a     Hillary Clinton  —   and the Trump reality that   stunned much of the political world. ’ ’   Business Insider spoke with party officials and pollsters in the   most crucial counties within those states to see how the   improbable Trump victory took place. ’ ”   No Republican had won at the presidential level in Wisconsin   since 1984. And the county that played the largest role in   changing that was Milwaukee County, where a drop off in ballots   cast was felt on both sides, but more so on Clinton’s. The margin   of victory for Clinton over Trump was about 20, 000 less than   Obama’s over 2012 Republican nominee Mitt Romney. ” ’   Clinton lost Wisconsin by just more than 27, 000 votes. ’ ’   ”We did have larger vote totals for Gary Johnson and Jill Stein,   and you had a large number of write in votes which was kind of   unusual,” Rob Hansen, the Democratic chair of Milwaukee County,   told Business Insider. ”Like a significantly higher number.” ’ ”   But that wasn’t all that depressed Clinton’s vote: Hansen said a   far lower number of provisional ballots than typical for a   presidential election played a role, as did a recent strict voter   ID law that was in effect for its first presidential election in   the state. ” ’   ”I think overall that the negativity of the campaign cycle   itself, in some ways suppressed the votes,” he added. ”You had a   situation with two candidates with high unfavorables, that turns   people away. It’’s a lot of different things that all add up.” ’ ”   He said it’s not necessarily fair to compare Clinton’s vote total   to Obama’s. ” ’   ”Hillary Clinton is not Barack Obama,” he said. ”No matter what   the quality of her experience is going into it, he fires up   people to a whole different degree than she does. And there are a   lot of reasons for that.” ’ ”   The county experienced a higher turnout than it did for Gov.   Scott Walker’s recall election, an exceedingly     election. Hansen added that it was the   turnout in   the past six elections. ” ”   The Democratic official said he hoped the narrative   surrounding the state’s voter ID law soon changed. ” ”   Because the case was tied up in court for years, he said, the   narrative from the Democratic side ended up being about how   unfair and difficult the law made it for many to vote. As a   result, he said, many people wrongly thought that the IDs were   very difficult to get, and that it wasn’t worth it for the   purpose of voting. ” ’   Hansen said his organization must do a better job of ”educating   folks for what they need to do to get the proper identification”   because that voter ID requirement is now ”the law of the land.” ’ ’   ”It requires a little initiative, but you don’’t want to tell   people it’’s too hard,” he said. ”That turns them off. It’’s going   to take time, but you should do it. We’’ve got to do that   messaging on our end a little bit better.” ’ ’   ”But, you know, that’’s one thing I intend to be vocal about,”   Hansen continued. ”Yes, you need an ID to vote. It is the   law of the land here. This is how you do it, it’’s not hard to do.   Having it tied up in court so long, that became the narrative for   a lot of folks.” ’ ’  ’ ’   It just came down to one county. ’ ”   Wayne County, the state’s most populous and home to Detroit,   was the center of Clinton’s likely loss in the Wolverine   State. ” ’   In 2012, Wayne County offered 595, 846 votes for Obama and 213, 814   for Romney. Trump received a few more votes than Romney (at the   time of publication, he had more than 228, 000 votes,   according to The Associated Press). But Clinton fell almost   80, 000 votes behind Obama at just a hair more than 517, 000. In   total, the advantage she held over Trump in the county was more   than 93, 000 fewer votes than Obama enjoyed over Romney in   2012. ’ ’   And, at the time of publication, she was losing the state by   fewer than 10, 000 votes. ’ ’   ”We saw the numbers but we did not project it would be that   significant a falloff from 2008 and 2012,” Steve Mitchell, a   Michigan pollster who conducted the Fox   poll in the   state, told Business Insider. ”I always said from the election of   Barack Obama in his initial election of 2008 and his reelection   in 2012, that no other Democrat, unless they were African   American, would ever run up the numbers Barack Obama had.” ’ ’   ”The question was, how big of a falloff would there be,” he   continued. ”And there was clearly a pretty significant falloff. A   greater percentage than I would’’ve anticipated.” ’ ”   The Keystone State’s vote for Trump was its first for a   Republican presidential nominee since 1988  —   and four   northeastern Pennsylvania counties played a monumental role in   making that happen. ” ”   Northumberland, Schuylkill, Lackawanna, and Luzerne counties saw   a drastic change in their vote totals from 2012 to 2016. In 2012,   they combined to provide Obama more than 18, 000 more votes than   Romney. This time around, voters in those four counties cast   nearly 64, 000 more votes for Trump than Clinton. That was a   difference of more than 82, 000 votes between Clinton’s and   Obama’s margins in those counties. ” ’   Clinton lost Pennsylvania by slightly more than 68, 000   votes, according to . ’ ”   And of those four counties, none had a larger reversal than   Luzerne, Ferrance’s county. With its largest city of     and a population of more than 320, 000, the county’s vote for   Trump was the largest for a Republican presidential candidate   there since President Richard Nixon’s reelection in 1972. ” ”   The chair of the county’s GOP said he first realized there could   be a big flip in the vote following the state’s April primary,   where Trump attracted the vast majority of Luzerne County voters. ” ’   ”Did we think he was going to win as big as he did?” Ferrance   asked rhetorically. ”I don’’t know if anybody would’’ve forecast   that.” ’ ’   Going    to engage with the county’’s ”swing voters,”   Ferrance said it was ”rare” for someone to mention support for   Clinton. ’ ’   ”It just didn’’t happen,” he said. ”Also driving through our area,   you would see a lot of Trump signs at a time when I didn’’t have   access to them because the campaign hadn’’t been sending them.   They really didn’’t come out until after the convention.” ’ ’   ”People making their own signs, I mean, when have you ever seen   that in an election, where somebody is going to make their own   signs?”  continued. ”Similar that you would   for a sports team if you were going to a game. You just didn’’t   see that type of enthusiasm. So, I mean, they say it was a   movement, it really seemed like it was a movement here.” ’ ”   Lacking a ground game in the state, just as he did across   the country, Trump relied on state and local parties, such as   Ferrance’s, to drive the     efforts. ” ’   The GOTV plan put forth by the Pennsylvania GOP, Ferrance said,   worked to perfection. ’ ’   ”We were [Trump’’s] boots on the ground, if you would,” he said.   ”In the weeks leading up to the election, they were doing 25 [to]   30, 000 doors on a weekend, getting out in front of these. There   was so much    voter contact. There was way more than   we saw through the [former Pennsylvania Gov. Tom] Corbett   election, the Romney election, they really projected each county   their vote total they wanted to get.” ’ ’   The state party projected that if Luzerne County could attain   60, 180 Trump votes, it could be enough to offset some of the   wide disparity in Philadelphia. Instead, the county secured more   than 78, 000 votes for Trump. ’ ’   ”I just think that the reason we had such turnout is because he   was real to a lot of the people from the area,” he said. ”[The   Pittsburgh area] is similar to ours. It’’s a lot of     blue collar type people and they were just sick, it seems like,   anything that was done to help was never to the middle class or   the slightly lower than middle class. It was like everything was   going on the backs of the people going out and working. I think   what he said really resonated.” ’ ’   ”And you’’d say, ’’Well, Hillary’’s going to win, Hillary’’s going to   win,’’” he continued. ”I think it just got the people out that   normally wouldn’’t go out to vote because they wanted to make sure   he won.” ’ ’  ’ ’     Florida, the   prize on the map and the   biggest treasure trove of all the battlegrounds, saw a massive   increase in voter turnout for the 2016 election in comparison   with 2012. ’ ’   Hurting Clinton was the vote in six   Florida   counties. Pasco, Hernando, Citrus, Sumter, Pinellas, and Levy   counties cast 38, 685 more votes for Romney in 2012. In 2016,   those counties cast 158, 945 more votes for Trump  —   a difference   of 120, 260. ’ ’   Clinton lost the state by 119, 770 votes. ’ ”   Of those six counties, none saw a greater flip than Pinellas,   where Clinton’s and Obama’s margins were separated by more than   31, 000 votes. ” ’   DiCeglie said that, when the effort for 2016 first started in   January of the previous year, the GOP was down by roughly 6, 000   voter registrations in comparison to the Democrats. By this past   spring, Republicans had surpassed Democrats in registrations   within the county for the first time in a decade. ’ ’   ”This was during a time when this Trump movement was in its   infancy in the latter part of 2015,” he said. ”So while we were   knocking on doors of people who weren’’t registered that were NRA   members, we had data showing that these people were likely to   lean Republican or ultimately register Republican.” ’ ’   ”As we were knocking on doors of people that are hearing this   Trump message, that are preparing to be involved in this Trump   movement,”  continued. ”I mean, talk about   being in the right place at the right time, quite frankly.” ’ ’   The growing, and enthusiastic, support for Trump helped   DiCeglie’’s county party register many ”immediately” after   contact. ’ ”   Clinton’s operation didn’t pick up steam locally, in terms of   registration on the ground, until after the convention in July. ” ’   Local polling found Trump and Clinton to be in a dead heat, even   as he was trailing by huge numbers in national polls, DiCeglie   said. ’ ’   ”Going into this thing we had a feeling it was real, and usually   if it’’s real here in Pinellas County, it’’s real across the   country,” he said. ”I would say within the last 10 days, started   to, even though it was a   it really felt like this   was going to happen.” ’