’  ’ ’     Donald Trump on Wednesday tapped Michigan   billionaire and charter school advocate Betsy DeVos as his choice   for education secretary, a move that has prompted a flurry of   praise and backlash from either political side throughout the   week. ’ ’   DeVos, a fierce proponent of school vouchers allowing students to   use public funds to attend private schools, heads up the   nonprofit American Federation for Children and is a former   chairwoman of the Michigan Republican Party. ’ ’   She has been  since she began volunteering for   President Gerald Ford in 1976, and has since served on the   Republican National Committee, the Alliance for School Choice,   and the Foundation for Excellence in Education. ’ ’   Trump, who supports vouchers and charter schools, called DeVos a   ”brilliant and passionate education advocate.” ’ ’   DeVos is still a relatively unknown name at the national level,   but she has become a prominent and polarizing figure in Michigan,   where she fought for years against charter school regulation. ’ ”   She helped pass the state’s charter school law in 1993, and she   later funded a ballot initiative in 2000 that would have   enshrined a right to vouchers in the state’s constitution. Her   advocacy has made her appointment a lightning rod for Democrats,   while Republicans who opposed Trump’s candidacy, such as former   Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, have heaped praise on the move. ” ’   The Michigan Democratic Party  calling DeVos a ”dangerous and     pick” and an ”  education activist,”   accusing her of attacking the state’’s public school system and   its teachers for the sake of profits of investors in charter   schools. ’ ’   ”Here is someone, in Betsy DeVos, who has made it her life’’s work   to channel her family’’s massive wealth toward destroying   Michigan’’s public education system,” the party said in a   statement. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tI am honored to work with the   on his vision to make American education great again. The status quo in ed is not acceptable. ’t’t’ ’   The Michigan chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union called   her   advocacy ”misguided” and urged the Senate to   consider her record before confirming her. ’ ’   ”She has ardently supported the unlimited, unregulated growth of   charter schools in Michigan, elevating   schools with no   consideration of the severe harm done to traditional public   schools,” wrote the chapter’’s . ’ ’   Teachers unions across the country, too, have been highly   critical of DeVos, arguing that despite her years advocating   charter schools and vouchers, she lacks firsthand experience   working in or with public schools and sends her own children to   private schools. ’ ’   The head of the American Federation of Teachers, the country’’s   largest teachers’’ union, decried DeVos in a statement on   Wednesday, calling her ”the most ideological,     education nominee” since the creation of the Department of   Education. ’ ’   ”In nominating DeVos, Trump makes it loud and clear that his   education policy will focus on privatizing, defunding and   destroying public education in America,” president . ’ ”   The National Education Association, too, blasted DeVos for   lobbying for school vouchers and pushing for     funding at taxpayers’ expense. ” ’   ”She has consistently pushed a corporate agenda to privatize,     and impose   solutions to public   education,” president . ’ ’   DeVos has, however, won the praise of her fellow     advocates, such as Republican  of Tennessee, who called her an ”excellent   choice,” and Republican Sen. Ben Sasse of Nebraska, who hailed   her selection as a victory for ”educational freedom.” ’ ’   DeVos ”has made a career out of standing up to powerful and   connected special interests on behalf of poor kids who are too   often forgotten by Washington,” Sasse, a critic of Trump along   the campaign trail, . ’ ’   The president of the National Charter Schools Institute had kind   words for her as well, calling her a ”bold pick.” ’ ’   ”She has been an outspoken advocate for years for school choice   and charter schools and challenging the status quo,” . ’ ’   But DeVos has also attracted criticism from some conservatives   because of her association with organizations that have supported   the Common Core education standards. The website Breitbart, which   was fervently supportive of Trump’’s candidacy, blared in a   headline: ”Donald Trump Announces   Core Betsy DeVos as   Education Secretary.” ’ ’   DeVos has since disavowed the standards in a statement and on   social media. ’ ’   ”I am not a supporter  —   period,” . ’