’  ’ ”   Hillary Clinton’s campaign said Saturday that it will take part   in a vote recount in Wisconsin .  ” ”   Stein, the Green Party’s presidential nominee, has so far raised   millions of dollars to fund the recount effort.  ” ’   In a post on    Marc Elias, the Clinton campaign’’s counsel, said that the while   the campaign has been actively investigating the election results   with a slew of lawyers and data scientists, it hasn’’t found any   ”actionable evidence” of hacking or ”attempts to alter the voting   technology.” ’ ’   ”We had not planned to exercise this option ourselves, but   now that a recount has been initiated in Wisconsin, we intend to   participate in order to ensure the process proceeds in a manner   that is fair to all sides,” Elias wrote. ’ ’   Elias said the Clinton campaign will continue to cooperate if   Stein pursues recounts in Pennsylvania and Michigan with the   funds she has raised.  ’ ’   He also noted that the combined margin of victory for     Donald Trump in Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, and   Michigan, while only 107, 000 votes, ”exceeds the largest margin   ever overcome,” in a recount. The three states account for a   total of 46 electoral votes. ’ ’   ”But regardless of the potential to change the outcome in any of   the states, we feel it is important, on principle, to ensure our   campaign is legally represented in any court proceedings and   represented on the ground in order to monitor the recount process   itself,” Elias wrote.  ’ ’  ’ ’   Elias also said that the Clinton campaign will continue to   ”perform our due diligence” and ”actively follow all further   activities that are to occur prior to the certification of any   election results.” He noted that Michigan, a key state in the   election, doesn’’t conduct a   audit in the same   manner as Wisconsin and Pennsylvania.  ’ ’   Regardless, the Obama administration  Friday indicating that the   White House stands behind the election results.  ’ ’   ”We stand behind our election results, which accurately   reflect the will of the American people,” the statement read. ’ ’   Stein initially raised money for the recount effort over concerns   raised by several top computer scientists who told the Clinton   campaign they had  based on   voting patterns in the states. Experts have largely debunked   speculation that electronic voting machines could be hacked,   primarily because the machines are not connected to the internet. ’ ’   The Trump campaign hasn’’t offered comment about the   recount. However, Kellyanne Conway, Trump’’s senior adviser   and former campaign manager,    on Thursday: ”Look who ’’can’’t accept the election results,’’”   linking to a story about Clinton supporters urging such a recount   effort. ’ ’   The deadlines to file recounts in Pennsylvania and Wisconsin are   Monday and Wednesday, respectively. ’