’  ’ ’   While there have been some big market moves since the US election   on November 8, one have the most pronounced has been in the US   dollar  —   Japanese yen cross rate. ’ ’   The US dollar has been on a tear while the Japanese yen has been   flattened, leaving the   up a handy 11. 5% from the lows   struck on November 9 when traders initially took the view that a   Donald Trump presidency would smash the global economy. ’ ’   It’s been a punchy move in anyone’s language, particularly in   such a short period of time, and one that Morgan Stanley’s FX   strategy team, led by Hans Redeker, believes will only continue   in the year ahead. ’ ’   Such is its confidence that the move will continue, it’s declared   that buying the US dollar against the Japanese yen is its top FX   trade for 2017. ’ ’   “JPY is our top currency to sell as the BoJ’s yield curve control   strategy should allow yield differentials to widen versus the   US,” the bank said in a research note released on Sunday. ’ ’   “We expect   to head to 130 in 2Q18  …     (while) the broad USD   index is expected to gain 6% topping out in 2Q18. ” ’ ’       Monthly Chart   ’ ’   In September this year, the Bank of Japan introduced   “Quantitative and Qualitative Monetary Easing (QQE) with Yield   Curve Control” a  ’ ’   The bank is targeting a nominal bond yield of 0% for     Japanese government bonds, something that has undermined the   yen’s appeal on pure interest rate differentials to the US dollar   along with a variety of other   currencies. ’ ’   Should the Morgan’s call be on the money, it would leave the     up 15% from its present level. ’ ’   Outside of the   the bank says that the buying the US   dollar against the Korean won, along with selling rallies in the     are its second and third top FX trades for 2017. ’ ’   Morgans’s says that the “euro should struggle as the ECB remains   accommodative and political uncertainty remains”. ’ ’   It also says that emerging market currencies will weaken next   year “in   Asia (CNY, KRW, TWD, SGD and THB) or   countries with external liabilities (TRY, ZAR and MYR)”. ’ ’   It is also “bearish” on the Australian and New Zealand dollars,   suggesting that “rising global funding costs do not bode well for   liability currencies such as AUD and NZD”. ’ ’   “Our bearish AUD and NZD outlook may initially find its main   support from higher USD yields steering funds into the US,” it   says. “Later in the cycle, commodity currencies may fall harder,   driven by rising real US rates and a slowing China,” it says. ’ ’   Here’s Morgan Stanley’s top ten FX trades for 2017, along with a   small synopsis on the reasons underpinning its call. ’ ’  ’ ’   Yield differentials driving outflows from Japan and higher   inflation expectations. ’ ’   Diverging growth and monetary policy to increase outflows from   Korea. ’ ’   No new negative UK news allows the undervalued GBP to recover. ’ ’   Norway government’s slower fiscal support to make long NOK   positions adjust. ’ ’   Reflects the diverging   economic growth stories. ’ ’   Relative external sector dependence, China exposure and debt   overhangs. ’ ’   RMB weakens from capital outflows and diverging monetary policy   from the US. ’ ’   We expect reform momentum and high yields to cushion external   risks ’ ’   Continued tight monetary policy should help RUB outperform ’ ’   Yield differentials weaken JPY, while CHF is a good eurozone   political risk hedge. ’