’  ’ ’   WASHINGTON (Reuters)   U. S.   Donald Trump is   expected to name   a   billionaire known for his investments in distressed industries,   to head the Commerce Department, a Republican source familiar   with the decision told Reuters on Tuesday. ’ ’   An announcement on  to lead the department,   which pursues   cases against cheap foreign imports,   could come as early as Wednesday, NBC News said. ’ ’ declined to comment to Reuters on Tuesday. ’ ” 78, a staunch supporter of Trump and an   economic adviser, has helped shape the Trump campaign’s views on   trade policy, blaming the 1994 North American Free Trade   Agreement with Canada and Mexico and the 2001 entry of China into   the World Trade Organization for causing massive U. S. factory job   losses. ” ’   ”I think there’s a big difference between the impact of trade   agreements on corporate America and the impact on Mr. and Mrs.   America,”  told CNBC in an interview earlier   this year. ”Corporate America has adjusted to them by investing   lots of capital offshore.” ’ ’ whose net worth was pegged by Forbes at about   $2. 9 billion, heads the private equity firm, W. L.    & Co in New York. ’ ”’ connections to Trump date back to 1990, when   as a turnaround expert for Rothschild and Co he worked on behalf   of bondholders to help engineer a restructuring of hundreds of   millions of dollars in debt owed on Trump’s Taj Mahal casino in   Atlantic City, New Jersey. ” ’   In 2002, by then in charge of his own private equity firm,    formed International Steel Group to consolidate   several bankrupt steelmakers, including Bethlehem Steel, Acme   Steel and LTV Steel. He sold the company in a $4. 5 billion deal   two years later to Mittal Steel. ’ ” retains a stake in what is now part of the   world’s largest steel company, Arcelor Mittal, and sits on its   board of directors. ” ’  ’ ’   His various business interests, which also include automotive   components and textiles, could make avoiding conflicts of   interest a complicated prospect as the head of an agency with   broad influence over trade cases and U. S. industrial policies. ’ ”   Arcelor Mittal has benefited from several recent   and     duties imposed by the Commerce Department against a   wide range of steel products from China, South Korea, Japan,   Britain, Turkey and other countries. Those have helped lift   domestic steel prices, boosting the company’s bottom line. ” ’ may also face questions from lawmakers over the   January 2006 Sago coal mine disaster in West Virginia that killed   12 miners in an explosion and collapse. Owned by a subsidiary of   one of his companies, International Coal Group, the mine had been   cited for more than 200 safety violations ’ ’   International Coal was sold for $3. 4 billion in 2011 to No. 2   U. S. coal miner Arch Coal, which filed for bankruptcy protection   in January amid plummeting coal prices. ’ ’   He could be questioned as well over a $2. 3 million fine his firm   agreed to pay in August to the Securities and Exchange Commission   to settle accusations it did not properly disclose some fees that   it charged investors. ’ ’     ’ ’   (Additional reporting by Steve Holland in New York and Emily   Stephenson in Washington; Editing by Peter Cooney) ’