’  ’ ’   Donald Trump’s biggest office tenant at his namesake Fifth Avenue   tower could become one of his biggest headaches. ’ ’   The   Industrial & Commercial Bank of China, the   world’s biggest lender measured by assets, occupies 20, 404 square   feet of office space at Trump Tower. The bank’s lease is set to   expire in 2019, and renewal negotiations could run Trump afoul of   a   piece of the U. S. Constitution meant to avoid   conflicts of interest. ’ ’   The “emoluments” clause prevents U. S. officials from receiving   gifts from foreign governments. In the case of the ICBC lease,   any terms deemed to be favorable to the bank could get  in hot water. ’ ’   “It could be a problem if they pay anything more than the market   rate or the market rate has changed somehow by the fact that he’s   president,” said Richard Painter, a University of Minnesota law   professor who served as the chief ethics lawyer under President   George W. Bush. “Any concessions to him by the bank could be   viewed as a gift, as a monetary value. ” ’ ’   The bank was paying $95. 48 per square foot for its  space as of   September 2012, the latest lease data available, Bloomberg   reported. ’ ’’ ’   Trump was highly critical of the Chinese government on the   campaign trail, while at the same time highlighting his business   deals with the country. Ethics experts have been critical of his   plan to hand over his company to his children, arguing Trump   should sell his interests in his properties and put the resulting   funds into a blind trust. ’ ’   In an extreme scenario, Congress could impeach Trump for   violating the Constitution, though the emoluments clause has   never been litigated. What’s more likely to happen is that his   administration would be tied up with information requests or   litigation over his business deals with foreign countries. ’ ’   There is some disagreement, however, on whether the emoluments   clause would apply in situations such as the ICBC lease. ’ ’   “If we start to see foreign governments providing gifts directly   to the President, that would be problematic,” said Robert Kelner,   head of the election and political law practice at the law firm   Covington & Burling. “But ordinary      dealings between a   enterprise and a bona fide   corporation owned by the President won’t come anywhere close to   violating the Constitution’s emoluments clause. ’ ’   “The founders would have been surprised to learn that George   Washington couldn’t sell his crops to a foreign chartered trading   company,” he added.  ’