’’ ’Starbucks CEO Howard Schultz is stepping down next year, the company announced on Thursday. ’ ”Schultz will be replaced by Starbucks’ president and COO, Kevin Johnson, effective April 3. Johnson has been a member of Starbucks’ board of directors for seven years. ” ”Schultz will be appointed executive chairman. According to the company, he will shift his focus to Starbucks’   Reserve line and the company’s social initiatives.” ’”As I focus on Starbucks next wave of retail innovation, I am delighted that Kevin Johnson  —   our current president, COO, a   board member, and my partner in running every facet of Starbucks business over the last two years  —   has agreed to assume the duties of Starbucks chief executive officer,” Schultz said in a statement published on Starbucks’’ website. ’ ’Starbucks shares were down roughly 3% in   trading following the announcement. ’ ’’ ’In a call with investors on Thursday, Schultz emphasized he would continue to play an active role in the business. ’ ’”I’’m not leaving the company. I’’m here every single day,” he said. ’ ’Schultz said that Johnson, ”is better prepared on a   basis than I am. ”’ ’According to Johnson, the pair began conversations in May about what future roles they wanted to have at the company. There are no other planned leadership changes.’ ’’ ”Schultz has been instrumental in growing Starbucks’ business, joining the company in 1982 as director of operations. He became CEO of Starbucks Corporation .” ”He left the position of CEO once before, . Schultz returned to Starbucks as CEO in 2008 after a hiatus  to lead the company’s financial turnaround.” ’”The differences between then and now couldn’’t be greater. In 2007, 2008, the country was going through a cataclysmic financial crisis that affected all companies, especially consumer brands, and Starbucks was not immune,” Schultz said in Thursday’’s call. ’ ”Schultz said he believes Starbucks’ management team today has capabilities and experience the company lacked in 2000. ” ’”On a personal level, I don’’t think I was as prepared then as I am now, primarily because of my confidence in the strategy, my confidence in the team, and my deep deep respect for Kevin Johnson as a servant leader,” Schultz said. ’ ”In recent months, Schultz has emphasized the importance of Starbucks’ premium Reserve brand, as well as the company’s ethical responsibilities.” ’”It’’s clear to the me that the universal interest in premium retail experiences is not skewed to only the US,” Schultz . ”I think there is a bigger trend here  —   as companies face the threat of   and mobile shopping, the burden of responsibility of the bricks and mortar retailers is to create a very immersive, dynamic experience. ”’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ”The company announced the news via a release on Starbucks’ website. Here’s the release in full:”