’  ’ ’     Donald Trump and Vice   Mike Pence   held a raucous rally in Ohio on Thursday, celebrate their victory   in the US presidential election. ’ ’   After thanking the crowd, Trump said, ”America is going to start   winning again, big league.” ’ ”   The  ’s remarks Thursday night closely resembled   his campaign speech, touching upon his positions on the US   economy, jobs, domestic policy, and immigration. ” ’   Trump’’s speech also included  retired Marine   Gen. James ”Mad Dog” Mattis for the role of defense secretary. ’ ’   ”But we’re not announcing it until Monday, so don’t tell   anybody,” Trump said. ’ ’’ ’   Notably, Trump also appeared to take a stand against : ”We condemn bigotry and prejudice in all   its forms. We denounce all of the hatred and forcefully reject   the language of exclusion,” he said to some applause and cheers. ’ ’   Trump also revived his attacks on news organizations, pointing   directly to reporters covering the rally inside the arena: ”The   people back there the extremely dishonest press. Very dishonest   people. . .. I mean how dishonest,” before going on a lengthy   tirade against journalists and pundits who predicted he would   lose to Democrat Hillary Clinton. ’ ”   The event comes nearly three weeks after Trump’s surprise   victory, and amid a bustle of new Cabinet appointments ahead of   the  ’s inauguration on January 20. ” ’   The rally at the US Bank Arena in Cincinnati also played out   . Ohio Secretary of State Jon   Husted dismissed those efforts in remarks at the event, saying   ”as your chief elections official, I signed the document   certifying   Donald Trump as the winner of the   state of Ohio.” ’ ’   The crowd erupted. ’ ’   Calling the results ”remarkable,” Husted said ”he won by a margin   of 450, 000 in our state.” ’ ’   A handful of speakers representing the state delivered remarks   applauding Trump’’s positions on domestic and immigration policy   as the crowd chanted in fits and starts  —   at one point reviving   the ”drain the swamp” and ”build the wall” chants that were often   heard on the campaign trail. ’ ’   Since the election, however, Trump has not spent much time with   staffers  and has    despite railing against such individuals before he was elected. ’ ’   All told, Trump will preside over the wealthiest Cabinet in US   history,  if his picks are   ultimately confirmed by Congress. ’