’  ’ ’   Walking around his hometown of College Station, Texas, last   summer,    social media star Aaron Doh began to get   stopped for pictures. Fans recognized him from Vine, where he had   racked up 1 million followers by August 2015. ’ ’   ”I think that’’s when I hit my peak,” said Doh, a budding comedian   who performs on social media rather than in clubs. ’ ”   Needless to say, Twitter’s recent announcement that it  was a bummer. For some young social   media celebrities, it brought an end to a source of income. Vine   stars could charge as much as six figures for a sponsored video,   . ” ’   For Doh, it would obliterate the massive following he spent years   building. ’ ’   The   aspiring actor has a plan B. Live. ly, an app   that spun off from the video network    over the summer, is an emerging   platform that   debuted to half a million downloads in its first week. Live. ly   lets users make monetary contributions, which the app calls   ”gifts,” during their favorite users’’ streams. ’ ”   An increasing number of Vine expats, including Doh, have turned   to Live. ly to make a quick buck by talking to fans who tune in.   Some rely on the app’s monetization model as a source of income   and argue it could one day compete with YouTube and Instagram in   terms of ad dollars offered. ” ’   ”Live. ly is paying my rent, paying my bills, so I don’’t have to   worry about putting food on the table,” Doh told Business   Insider. ”It’’s not traditional by any means.” ’ ’ ’ ’   2016 saw a mass exodus of stars from Vine. Over half of the app’’s   top 1% of users stopped posting by the start of the year,   . Since Vine   announced in October that it would shut down ”in the coming   months,” the app has bled even more users. People can still log   in and download their videos from Vine as keepsakes. ’ ”   It’s not a total surprise Vine threw in the towel. The app faced   fierce competition. ” ’   ”Snapchat and Instagram have taken off on the   video   side, YouTube has always been a giant on the   side,   and there are a million different services in between,” Business   Insider’’s Jeff Dunn . ’ ”   Live. ly is one of those   services with the most   potential. But unless you’re in middle school or know a child   who’s around that age, you’ve probably never heard of it. ” ’   Musical. ly, a   video network with over 150 million   users, spun off the   app in June. People  —   mostly   teens  —   upload   videos of themselves     dancing, and performing comedy skits. The two apps feed each   other traffic by notifying users when their favorite Musical. ly   stars begin streams on Live. ly. ’ ’  ’ ’   Within 24 hours of launching, Live. ly jumped over 100 chart   positions to No. 1 in the App Store. The company did not disclose   the number of downloads to date. ’ ”   Vine and Live. ly aren’t    rivals. While Vine stars   create carefully produced   bursts of content, Live. ly   stars just hit record and talk at their phones. Viewers leave   comments and engage with the host in real time. Streams can go on   for hours. The longer the stream, the more money you’re likely to   make, Doh says. ” ”   Though the apps are different, Live. ly fills a void left by   Vine’s collapse: Young people with a smartphone and time to kill   can earn a living making videos. ” ’  ’ ’   Bart Baker, the   king of music video parodies, has   became a   broadcaster on Live. ly. He cut his teeth   making videos on Vine and YouTube, where he has . His following on Live. ly pales   in comparison, but Baker says he generates enough on the platform   to cover his overhead costs. ’ ’   ”For some people, what I’’m making off Live. ly you could live off   of. If you do it every day for four hours a day, you could   probably pull in 30 grand a month,” Baker told Business Insider. ’ ”   Cameron Dallas, the   darling of Vine with 9. 6   million followers, also made the leap to Live. ly. He’s featured   prominently in the app’s tutorial and is an avid Musical. ly user. ” ’   The top 10 broadcasters on Live. ly made $46, 000 on average over   two weeks, according to data provided by Musical. ly. The average   stream lasts about 30 minutes. ’ ’  ’ ”   Doh does not rank among the app’s   broadcasters, but   he still manages to support himself on gifts from fans. On a   typical day, he holds between one and three sessions, each   lasting about 90 minutes, and earns anywhere from $800 to $1, 900. ” ”   His streams show Doh shooting the breeze with viewers and using   funny voices. When a fan makes a contribution, Doh receives a   notification that shows the person’s username. He takes the   opportunity to thank the fan aloud and sometimes follows their   account back. ” ’   An analytics tool allows Doh to see his top supporters of the   week. There are a few ”regulars” he can count on to send money,   though Doh says it’’s not the most stable source of income. ’ ’   A few weeks ago, he made a record $1, 900 from a single session. ’ ’   ”The funny thing was, it wasn’’t really different from any other   live stream. It was the person who came [into the stream],” Doh   said. ”You get lucky with the type of people sometimes.” ’ ”   Live. ly sounds like an easy way for kids to blow through their   weekly allowance. It’s also not a sustainable method for   generating income, especially compared with YouTube’s   ad   system. ” ”   YouTube places an ad before top creators’ videos, tallies up the   revenue the ad makes, and splits the profit with the creator.   Live. ly users can only encourage their fans to send gifts. This   week, I received a notification from one broadcaster saying they   would follow the day’s top contributor. ” ’   A spokesperson for Live. ly told Business Insider that the company   is currently looking into additional monetization opportunities   such as sponsored videos, which are common on YouTube. ’ ’ ’ ”   Doh credits the engaged user base for keeping him afloat. Thanks   in part to users’ gifts, he was able to move to Los Angeles and   start auditioning for roles in TV and movies. ” ”   According to the budding comedian, Live. ly beats other     platforms because he feels closest to his fans   there. It’s almost never difficult to fill a   slot. ” ’   ”It’’s pretty crazy, but if you think about talking to your   friends for an hour . .. I’’m talking to 100, 000 people at a time,”   Doh said. ”I definitely enjoy it.” ’