’  ’ ”     Donald Trump’s victory on Election Day has   put some of President Barack Obama’s hallmark   achievements in jeopardy. ” ”   Trump has come out strongly against almost all of   the top initiatives Obama spent eight years working on  —   the   Asia pivot, the   Partnership trade pact, Obamacare,   and the Iran nuclear deal  —   and they’re fragile enough that Trump   could reverse course fairly easily. ” ’   ”You have an outsider president being replaced by the most   outsider candidate ever elected,” Ian Bremmer, a geopolitical   analyst and president of the Eurasia Group, told Business Insider   via email. ’ ’   ”There’’s nothing like one upsmanship, big league, to destroy your   legacy.” ’ ’   Trump has called the Iran deal one of ”the worst deals ever made   by any country in history” and threatened to rescind or   renegotiate the agreement that gives Iran sanctions relief in   exchange for curbing its nuclear program. ’ ’   ”Trump has repeatedly slammed the deal as being a bad deal  —   the   assumption is that he’s going to do something,” Jonathan   Schanzer, a Middle East expert who is a vice president of   research at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, told   Business Insider after the election. ’ ’   Schanzer also admits that given Trump’’s ambiguity on the subject,   it’’s ”extremely difficult” to anticipate how negotiations would   play out. ’ ”   After the election, Iran’s foreign minister Mohammad Javad   Zarif has called on Trump to stick to the agreement. And in June,   before Trump had officially become the Republican nominee for   president, Zarif said Iran would reject any attempt from the US   to renegotiate the deal. ” ’   It ”is not an   agreement for the Republican frontrunner or   anybody else to renegotiate,” he said. ”It’’s an international   understanding annexed to a [United Nations] Security Council   resolution.” ’ ”   Bremmer said he’s skeptical about whether Trump will actually   upend the deal. But even if he didn’t, his administration will   likely dilute the image of the Iran nuclear deal as a bright   spot in Obama’s presidency. ” ’  ’ ”   While much of Obama’s foreign policy doctrine has been   consumed by wars in the Middle East, a pivot to Asia was supposed   to be a prominent part of Obama’s legacy. ” ”   But since Obama’s final trip to Asia as president    that legacy looks to be   uncertain. ” ”   And Trump winning the presidency means that   Obama’s controversial trade deal is likely dead in the   water. ” ’   ”Trump’’s victory kills the [  Partnership] and   replaces it with ’’America First,’’” Bremmer said. ”China sees this   as its moment to seize primary leadership in Asia.” ’ ’   The   Partnership would lower tariffs for 12   countries around the Pacific, not including China. Obama was   hoping to get the deal through Congress during the     period before he leaves office, but that now seems highly   unlikely. ’ ”   Trump is also unlikely to continue Obama’s pivot to Asia,   considering his   rhetoric about putting American   interests above all else. ” ’  ’ ’   On the campaign trail, Trump often expressed the desire to   repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, known colloquially as   Obamacare. ’ ’   He has called Obamacare a ”total disaster” and promised to   replace it with ”the finest healthcare plan there is.” ’ ”   But since the election, he has softened that position, saying   he’d be  instead. ” ’   And in any case,  that repealing the Affordable   Care Act would be difficult. ’ ’   ”Domestically there’’s much more of Obama’’s legacy that will stay   intact, likely including some piece of his most controversial   policy, Obamacare,” Bremmer said. ’ ’ Alex Lockie contributed to this report. ’