’  ’ ’   New York Times public editor Liz Spayd said Friday night that she   believed certain tweets authored by Times journalists during the   campaign were “over the line” and should have been met with “some   kind of a consequence. ” ’ ’   The comments came  with Fox News host Tucker   Carlson, who read three particular tweets to her on his show. ’ ’   Those tweets came from investigative reporter Eric   Lipton, Jerusalem Bureau Chief Peter Baker, and reporter Liam   Stack (it should be noted Stack merely tweeted the headline of a   story from The Atlantic): ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tWhite House as QVC. It has started.  ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tFor a new president from reality television, a cabinet selection that resembles a pageant.    ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tThe Electoral College was meant to stop men like Trump from taking office  ’ ’   “Are you kidding? These are news reporters saying this stuff,”   Carlson said of the tweets. ’ ”   “Yes, I think that’s outrageous,” Spayd agreed. “I think that   that should not be. They shouldn’t be tweeted and they shouldn’t      and it does concern me that that would be. ” ” ’   That answer did not quell Carlson, who went on to bring up tweets   by Michael Barbaro, a New York Times reporter and host of The     a Times political podcast, and another from Baker: ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tWe had fearless journalism throughout 2016. Voters wanted they wanted.  ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tReal scandal isn’t what media didn’t report; it’s what it did & readers didn’t care. Smart analysis by amazing   ” ’   Carlson said that the tweets sent the message that   ”  ’ ”   “That suggests they don’t understand the mission of a newspaper,   which is to bring you the news, not to affect the outcome of a   political race,” Carlson concluded. ” ’   The Fox News host asked why the reporters had not been   disciplined. ’ ”   “Where are the editors here?” he asked. “I mean, if my    you   know, If I was the New York Times and my editors were tweeting   crap like that, I would say you stop that right now or I’m firing   you. Why don’t they do that?” ” ”   “I don’t know,” Spayd replied. “I don’t know that any of those   people should be fired, but I do think that when people go over   the line like that, and I think some of those are over the line,   that there ought to be some kind of a consequence for that. ” ” ’   Trump has repeatedly hammered the Times since launching his   campaign last summer. He  against the   newspaper during the campaign and, since winning, has . ’ ”   The Times, simultaneously, has  amid   Trump’s criticism.  ”