’  ’ ’   During the first weekend of December, nine people died of   apparent drug overdoses in and around Kensington, a neighborhood   in northern Philadelphia. ’ ’   Those deaths came just weeks after the city, which has become a   ”mecca” for addicts, saw   —   five of them fatal  —   in one   day on November 17. ’ ”   Philadelphia’s overdose deaths have put the city on pace to hit   900 fatal overdoses this year, a  over last year and a number that   would triple the city’s homicide rate,  to The Philadelphia Inquirer. ” ’   The cause of death for the nine overdoses over the weekend has   yet to be verified, but authorities said all seemed to be related   to drug use. ’ ’   The overdoses on November 17 are believed to be the result of   heroin laced with fentanyl, a potent painkiller that can be 50   times stronger than heroin and 100 times stronger than morphine,    to the US Centers for Disease   Control and Prevention. ’ ’   The additional deaths this weekend may have also been caused by   fentanyl, Jose Benitez, executive director of the nonprofit   Prevention Point Philadelphia,  The Inquirer. ’ ”   Philadelphia usually sees three overdoses a day, not all of which   are fatal,  Benitez, whose organization provides   health services to drug addicts. On a typical day, Benitez’s   group typically hands out four or five kits with the opioid   antidote Naloxone. ” ’   On November 18, . ’ ’  ’ ”   Philadelphia, and the neighborhood of Kensington in particular,   has become a focal point for the US’s deepening opioid crisis. ” ” indicated the city was   seeing an influx of a cheap, highly potent version of   heroin, thought be pushed by Mexico’s Sinaloa cartel, which has    recently. ” ’   One addict who spoke to the LA Times in July said Philadelphia   had become a ”” for    looking for the   drug. ’ ’   Philadelphia Mayor Jim Kenney  Kensington the ”epicenter of the   city’’s opioid use” on Monday. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”The purity is the best on the East Coast, and it’s easily   accessible,” Patrick Trainor, spokesman for the US Drug   Enforcement Agency in Philadelphia,  the LA Times. ”It definitely draws   people.” ’ ”   The city is centrally located among the  ’s heroin   markets, and it sits alongside Interstate 95, a major artery for   illegal drug smuggling. ” ’     is also adjacent to Kensington, which narcotics officers who   spoke to the LA Times this summer  one of the ”most flagrant     drug markets” on the eastern seaboard. ’ ’   Emergency responders and researchers are often behind the curve   when it comes to identifying the drugs in use during such crises,   The Inquirer . ’ ’   Some labs have equipment that is not able to recognize newer   drugs, and, in some cases, the amount of the narcotic in the   bloodstream is so minute as to avoid detection. ’ ’   ”I’’m really concerned by what we’’re hearing now,” Roland Lamb,   and official with Philadelphia’’s Department of Health,  The Inquirer. ”I’’m very concerned.” ’ ’   Hard drugs like heroin and related narcotics like fentanyl have   gained traction with a broader base of users in recent years, in   part because of profligate use of prescription pain medicine that   often hooks users and leaves them craving stronger highs. ’ ’   In response to those urges, many users turn to heroin, with   additives like fentanyl seeping into batches as addicts clamor   for stronger doses. ’ ’  ’ ’   The spread of the crisis has stirred alarm around the US and    of ineffective and   counterproductive punitive responses. Opioid addiction and drug   use has also  in   and Rust Belt   communities. ’ ’   Victor Colon, a Philadelphia man who died of an overdose this   weekend, had surgery for a knee infection at the beginning of   this year, for which he was prescribed pain medication.  to The Inquirer, his family thinks   that may have led him into heroin addiction. ’ ’   ”It’’s just this heroin. This heroin. It’’s killing people slowly,”   Colon’’s sister, Edna Villafane . ”I don’’t think the meaning of brotherly   love is here anymore.” ’