’  ’ ’   Last August, Google announced it would  which would effectively be    for Google and its various businesses  —     YouTube, Android, etc.  —   as well as Google’’s more outlandish   experiments, like its moonshots factory, ”X”; its investment   arms; and more. ’ ”   The  mainly   had to do with clarity for investors. By creating two specific   segments of Google, investors and shareholders could separate the   strengths of Google  —   namely, search and ads  —   from its riskier   endeavors, like   cars. Another reason: Larry Page,   then Google’s CEO, wanted to take a backseat in operations in   order to focus on his bigger dreams, like the company’s moonshots   in health and energy. ” ”   That’s all well and good for Page, Sergey Brin, and the various   executives at Google and Alphabet. But one year later, if you ask   a random person on the street if they know what Alphabet is, they   likely wouldn’t know. ” ’   This Google Trends data, which compares the volume of Google   searches for ”Google” versus ”Alphabet,” says it all: ’ ’  ’ ”   And that is probably the biggest benefit from the name change:   Google’s more controversial projects, such as its efforts to   expand its reach with   drones and sensitive   healthcare technology, no longer have Google’s name on them.   They’re now owned by Alphabet, an   company   you’ve probably never heard of. ” ’  ’ ’   For over a decade, Google was the darling of the Internet Age,   providing the best search experience, as well as the best online   maps and email experiences. Its unofficial motto was ”Don’’t be   evil,” a reminder that while the company manages a ton of   personal data, it must never use it for ”evil,” which would   tarnish the important bond of trust Google had with its   customers. ’ ’   (”Don’’t be evil,” by the way, also created the notion that Google   would never do anything perceived as evil, which is a   challenging, if not impossible, expectation to live up to.) ’ ’   Toward the end of the 2000s, Google’’s image started to change. A   big moment was when Google introduced Android in 2008  —   an   operating system that looked and felt a lot like Apple’’s iPhone   operating system, which was introduced one year before. People   found it suspicious that Google developed Android while its CEO,   then Eric Schmidt, sat on Apple’’s board of directors during the   iPhone’’s development. Making matters worse, Apple’’s late founder,   Steve Jobs, called Android ”outright theft” and  fueling feelings that Google wasn’’t   living up to that ”Don’’t be evil” mantra. ’ ’   Other instances in recent years where Google came across as   creepy: ’ ”   While changing the name from Google to Alphabet and reorganizing   Google’s various properties under Alphabet doesn’t change the   past, it does help prevent similar public relations debacles from   happening in the future. Since it’s technically Google’s parent   company currently working on all of its projects that   —   like drones,     cars, genetic engineering, machine intelligence, or its project   to extend the human life span  —   the name Google is kept out of   people’s mouths and out of the media, to some degree. ” ’   All of this is to say Alphabet and Google are not bad or evil   companies just because of this PR shift. If anything, it’’s   extremely smart of Page and company to separate Google’’s   uncertain experiments from its    search and ads   business. But the staggering difference in public awareness   between Alphabet and Google is worth noting  —   so if you ever see   a news headline about Alphabet, just think ”Google.” ’