’’ ”It’s a Jaguar. It’s an SUV. It’s a Jaguar SUV.” ’Yes, that day has finally come. At the Los Angeles auo show in 2015, Jaguar Land Rover officially unveiled its   sport utility for the US market. About a year later, we got our hands on it.’ ”In the flesh, the vehicle, called   was as stunning on the street as we initially thought it was on the showroom floor in LA. The name, which is meant to connect the crossover in nomenclature with Jag’s   sports cars, is weird. But the machine is beautiful  —   the most gorgeous SUV currently available, we think, thanks to the aesthetic ministrations of designer Ian Callum.” ”Jaguar shares a corporate stable with Land Rover, so it’s not as if these folks don’t know how to bolt together a stupendous offroader. They’ve been doing it for decades. ” ”But how would a Jaguar SUV stack up? After all, Jag is a     brand, full of British panache. Does a suburban family hauler really fit, even it if that’s what the market wants?” ’We had a few days in the Northeast with the 2017   to find out:’ ’We asked Jaguar about these issues, which are to be expected on a 1. 0 version of a new infotainment rig.’ ’In a statement to Business Insider, a Jaguar Land Rover spokesperson wrote:’ ”Our tester came with a 3.  supercharged V6, making 380 horsepower. That’s plenty of pump, and coupled with the   gearbox, it yields joyful driving when there’s joy to be had. The   mph sprint happens in just over five seconds and it has a top speed of 155 mph.” ”It’s also loaded with   wizardry, such as   warnings and adaptive cruise control. (I liked driving the   so much that I didn’t use these very much, even with a few hundred miles on the program. )” ”Some folks may wish for a bit more oomph from the motor. Membership in the   club can matter, but if more ponies is what you seek, you can check out Jag’s stablemate, Range Rover. Personally, the highly capable      system gave me all the grip I needed when I needed it, while at the same time piping the power to the rear wheels often enough that I didn’t want for more grunt.” ”In November, Jaguar allowed Business Insider’s Benjamin Zhang to take a different   test car out on a   off road course. The Jag proved to be surprisingly competent on rough terrain with its advanced    system providing solid traction and good feel. ” ”The  ’s looks get even more suave and sexy at speed. This cat was made to move. There’s a lot of lightweight aluminum in the chassis, and that helps, but it doesn’t compromise the SUV’s solid feel.”