’  ’ ’   ”Fake news” is everywhere. Even, evidently, at the places trying   to disprove it. ’ ’   Here is a curious tale in how it can be spread. Public Policy   Polling  —   a Democratic firm with a good track record  —    that actually provides a   pretty fascinating window into supporters of     Donald Trump. ’ ’   But one stat in particular stood out to at least a : 14% answered ”yes” to the   question of whether they think ”Hillary Clinton is connected to a   child sex ring being run out of a pizzeria in Washington, DC.”   The majority of   Trump supporters (54%) say she’’s   not. ’ ’   And then there are the 32% who are ”not sure,” which could mean a   number of things. Most likely, it is that haven’’t   heard much, perhaps, about the story that led an armed man   to show up at the DC pizzeria last weekend . They don’’t feel they have enough   information to make a definitive judgment. ’ ’   Another interpretation was :   ”An astonishing number of people believe Pizzagate, the     Clinton sex ring conspiracy story, could be   true.” ’ ’’ ’   ”Especially if they’’re Trump voters,” the story’’s deck read.   It posited that if you are a Trump supporter, ”there’’s a decent   chance” you think the story is true, and that it was evidence of   such deception having a ”depressingly receptive audience.”   Several other   sites, including Salon, . ’ ’   Yet the same poll showed that by the same logic, supporters of   Libertarian nominee Gary Johnson and Green Party nominee Jill   Stein were about as likely to think the story ”could be true”  —     even though, according to the poll, exactly 0% of Stein voters   answered ”yes” to the question (43% said they were not sure). ’ ’   ”I agree that the ’’not sure’’ respondents are probably a mix of   people who think ’’could be true’’ with others whose reaction was   more like ’’huh? ’’ and thought the question seemed totally out of   left field if they weren’’t familiar with the story,” said   Tom Jensen, the director of Public Policy Polling. ’ ’   This is a different kind of ”fake news” than the one we’’ve been   talking about at large in the media since the election  —   and that   . But it   prompts the question: What, exactly, is ”fake news?” ’ ’   Versions of this phenomenon have popped up a few times this   week. On Wednesday, for instance, Time magazine  that had taken comments from House Speaker   Paul Ryan out of context. ’ ”   On Thursday, meanwhile, Newsweek’s Kurt Eichenwald mistakenly    that Trump supporters had booed   the late John Glenn, who died earlier that day. He corrected his   error, but not before the original tweet had garnered thousands   of retweets. And on Friday, a  about Trump shrugging   off comparisons to Hitler. The story was actually from 2015,   which led The Washington Post to add an editor’s note to the   piece. ” ’   These types of inaccuracies, distortions, and   obsolescence are problems that predate the ”fake news”   phenomenon  —   or whatever you want to call it  —   of this election   cycle. But they are arguably as big of a problem, if not bigger,   for the news media to reckon with in the days, months, and years   ahead. ’