’  ’ ’     Donald Trump is  for secretary of   state, NBC News reported on Saturday.  ’ ’   NBC’’s Andrea Mitchell, citing sources, said that Tillerson will   be officially nominated sometime next week, ”barring some   unforeseen change of mind by the  .”  ’ ’   Tillerson recently rose as one of the top contenders for   secretary of state, and his reported nomination comes on the   heels of former New York mayor Rudy Giuliani taking himself out   of consideration for the position. Other top contenders were   former military officer David Petraeus and former presidential   candidate and Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney.  ’ ’   Though the Trump team has not yet confirmed that it has selected   Tillerson for secretary of state, his potential   nomination as the primary conduit between the United States   and foreign governments is raising concerns among some,   particularly because of his connections to the Russian government   and Russian president Vladimir Putin.  ’ ”   Tillerson, who has no previous government experience or   experience working as a diplomat, has ties to Russia that go back   nearly two decades. Tillerson met Putin in 1999,  when Tillerson first represented   Exxon’s interests in Russia while it was under Boris Yeltsin’s   leadership.  ” ’’ ”   Tillerson, while representing Exxon, has also worked with   Rosneft, a major Russian   corporation, since the 1990s,   when they first collaborated on the   project in   Russia’s Far East. Since then, the project has been successful in   furthering Exxon’s and Rosneft’s oil interests. ” ’   In 2011, Tillerson  for Exxon with Rosneft, which gave Exxon   access to oil fields in the Arctic. In return, Rosneft received   stakes in a number of Exxon projects within the US. That deal   eventually tanked, however, when Russia invaded Crimea and stoked   tensions with Ukraine, leading the US to impose sanctions on   Russia. Tillerson  citing the ”broad   collateral damage” the sanctions caused. ’ ”   Tillerson holds a $151 million stake in Exxon stock,   according to securities filings reviewed by the Wall Street   Journal, and the value of that stock would increase if US   sanctions on Russia were lifted. The Journal notes that as   secretary of state,  Tillerson would need   to address would be his holdings in Exxon. He would likely need   to divest his interests in the company based on the State   Department’s ethics rules, Chase Untermeyer, a former US   Ambassador to Qatar, told the Journal.  ” ’   ” ’ ”   Nonetheless, Tillerson has remained the primary branch between   Exxon and the Kremlin. Under Tillerson’s wing, Exxon’s holdings   in Russia outpaced its holdings in the US, Bloomberg reported.   And when Russia strongarmed foreign investors into giving up   their oil interests in a particularly lucrative territory under   Russian control, Exxon’s interests remained untouched.  ” ’   ”[Tillerson]   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’