’  ’ ’   Three years ago, smartwatches were supposed to be the next big   thing. ’ ’   They were going to be the platform where the next big app or   social network was built. They were going to free us from our   smartphones. They were going to go from a nerdy dream to a   mainstream reality. ’ ’   None of that happened. ’ ’   In fact, it was the opposite. The market for wearables has proven   to be insanely volatile, claiming victims much faster than we saw   with the companies that went kaput following the   introduction of the iPhone. ’ ’   Last week, Pebble, the startup largely responsible for   juicing interest in smartwatches back in 2012,  for basically nothing. Its future   products were canceled, and support for current products will end   soon. ’ ’’ ”   Then there’s Android Wear, Google’s operating system for   smartwatches. Google had to  and several   partners have abandoned their plans to make new Android   smartwatches this year. Motorola even said it . ” ’   And there have been signs of struggle all across the industry    to giants like . ’ ’   The smartwatch and other wearable gadgets have had more than   enough time to prove themselves as major tech products, but   the only companies seeing any kind of success are Apple and   Fitbit. (Even then, Fitbit has had its own struggles since its   entire business revolves around the shaky wearables market.) ’ ”   It’s time to admit that as enthusiastic as the tech industry was   about wearables a few years ago, the gadgets we got either didn’t   live up to that promise or failed to dazzle enough people to   become major hits. At best, they’re niche products, great for   fitness gurus or geeks who like getting emails on their wrist. ” ”   The signs have been there from the beginning too. While Pebble   had an impressive Kickstarter debut, it never sold enough watches   to seep into the mainstream, only crossing the 1 million mark   after about two years. Apple failed to adequately explain why it   made a smartwatch and what it was for, only to pivot this year   and focus on the Apple Watch’s   capabilities   instead. Fitbit has been a roller coaster of minor successes and   major disappointments. ” ”   I recently spoke to someone familiar with Pebble’s business who   told me signs of real trouble started creeping in around this   time last year when the company saw disappointing sales over the   Black   Monday holiday shopping weekend, failing to   beat the numbers from the year before. The company quickly   learned that it couldn’t expand its products to a mainstream   audience, no matter how excited techies were about smartwatches.   Things never got better. ” ”   Some might think that’s because it was Pebble’s first holiday   season going against the Apple Watch. I read it as people don’t   want smartwatches, they want an Apple Watch. ” ”   There is no smartwatch market. There’s just Apple and Fitbit. ”