’  ’ ”   You’d think being a Nobel   physicist, and one of the   country’s most celebrated scientific geniuses, would be enough   for a guy. ” ’   But Richard Feynman, legendarily, always wanted to know more, to    more.  quotes his   : ’ ”   Was all this learning just a product of Feynman’s  his freakishly fast and inventive   brain? If so, we’d all be left with nothing to do but marvel at   his ability to master everything from the bongos to quantum   mechanics. But thankfully, Feynman’s gift for learning wasn’t all   about native ability. He also had a technique for   —   and even better, it’s   both simple and stealable by us  . ” ’   Shane Parrish, the mind behind site Farnam Street, has helpfully   outlined this ”Feyman Technique” both on his own  and in a recent article   for . Here are the basics of   the   process. ’ ”   Feynman was one of the great popular explainers of     science, and he insisted that even the most difficult concepts   could be put into words anyone could understand. (If you’re not   familiar with this near magical ability of his, check out the   classic video below). ” ’   In fact, using fancy vocabulary is usually a sign you haven’’t   fully understood a subject, he believed. That’’s why the first   step of his ”Feynman Technique” is to take out a piece of paper   and explain in writing whatever you’’re trying to learn like   you’’re talking to a      . ’ ’   ”When you write out an idea from start to finish in simple   language that a child can understand (tip: use only the most   common words) you force yourself to understand the concept at a   deeper level and simplify relationships and connections between   ideas. If you struggle, you have a clear understanding of where   you have some gaps. That tension is good  —   it heralds an   opportunity to learn,” explains Parrish. ’ ’ ’ ”   Initially, you’ll struggle to convey your new subject in such   simple terms. That’s OK. Just consider every time things get   complicated or unclear as a flag that you need to study that   particular section again. ” ’   ”For example, if you’’ve got a biology test coming up and you’’re   having problems explaining evolution in simple terms, open up the   biology book and start   the section on evolution. Now   close the book, take out a new blank piece of paper and explain   the   (in this case evolution) that you were having   problems with,” offers Parrish. ’ ’   At this stage you should have comprehensive notes that convey   whatever you’’re trying to learn in your own,     language. All that’’s left to do is review and consolidate that   knowledge. ”Read them out loud,” suggests Parish. ”If the   explanation isn’’t simple or sounds confusing, that’’s a good   indication that your understanding in that area needs some work.” ’