’  ’ ’     Donald Trump promised this week that he will both   relinquish control over his business empire and that ”no new   deals” will occur while he serves in the White House, but ethics   experts say it’’s still not enough for Trump to adequately avoid a     . ’ ’   After cancelling a   press conference on the   subject set for Thursday late Monday afternoon, Trump announced   in a  that ”even though I am not   mandated by law to do so,” he would leave his businesses prior to   inauguration. ’ ’  ’ ”   Still, a total divestiture from his business is viewed as the   only solution by ethics experts, who’ve said anything less is   inconsequential. ” ’   ”The acid test for   Donald Trump’s conflicts of   interest is: Will he sell the family business?” Robert Weissman,   the president of the advocacy group Public Citizen, . ”Last night’s tweets   suggest that he will not divest, which means that nothing of   consequence has changed.” ’ ’   Weissman wrote that Trump would continue to have conflicts of   interests stemming from his business operations, including those   overseas, no matter who is running the Trump Organization so long   as he still has a stake in it, adding that Trump will be able to   financially benefit from policies as   as consumer   protection, taxes, labor rights, and bankruptcy. ’ ’   ”Candidate Trump promised to root out corruption, cronyism and   insider dealmaking,” he wrote. ”  Trump is making a   mockery of those promises, starting with his refusal to end his   own conflicts of interest, as serious as any in the history of   the American presidency.” ’ ’  ’ ”   In a   piece for  Richard Painter and   Norman Eisen of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in   Washington shared much of Weissman’s sentiment. ” ’   The pair took a dive into the two pieces of news from Trump’’s   tweets: that he would make ”no new deals” and that his two sons,   Eric and Donald Jr. would have a major stake in running the   company. ’ ’    ”What no ’’new deals’’ seems to mean is that Trump and his   family will do no   major projects,” the pair wrote. ”But   Trump has given no indication that he will end any existing   projects. On the contrary, he has suggested that his businesses   all over the United States and the world will clearly continue,   which means there will be many ’’new deals. ’’” ’ ’   They called the concept ”questionable,” and added that it   ”certainly” doesn’’t do enough to address concerns about Trump’’s   conflicts. ’ ’   ”Continuance of the current Trump empire means that it will be   rife with opportunities for quid pro quos and other   illegalities,” Painter and Eisen wrote. ”Most immediately,   if those businesses continue to receive foreign government   payments, Trump will be in violation of the emoluments clause of   the U. S. Constitution from his first day as president.” ’ ’   According to a    at least 111 separate   Trump companies have conducted business in 18 countries across   South America, the Middle East, and Asia. Pointing specifically   to a Trump Towers project in Istanbul, something that Trump at   one point said could present ”a little conflict of interest,” the   Post wrote that ”policy and ethics experts are scrambling to   assess the potential dangers of public rule by a leader with a   vast web of private business deals.” ’ ’   The biggest legal risk Trump faces as a result of his business   ties is a passage in the Constitution known as the emoluments   clause, which Painter and Eisen referenced. It forbids government   officials from receiving gifts from foreign governments. ’ ’   As the Post reported, a payment from a foreign official or     company to a Trump hotel or other company bearing his   name could potentially violate the clause. So could favorable   legislation or treatment overseas from a government aimed at   benefiting a Trump property. ’ ’   Writing about Trump’’s sons, Painter and Eisen said putting   children of officials in charge of businesses is ”a typical   conduit for corruption all over the world.” ’ ’   At various points along the campaign trail, Trump said his   business would be controlled by his children in what he said was   a ”blind trust,” even though that constitutes an independent   manager who is not someone as closely tied to the holder as their   children. ’ ’   ”If Trump maintains an ownership interest in the businesses, and   his kids are running them, that is an invitation for scandal,”    wrote. ”This is why, as we have   argued before, Trump must follow the example set by the past four   decades of presidents and construct a true blind trust or   equivalent.” ’ ’Trump doesn’t just   need to ’’leave’’ operations of his businesses in the hands of his   sons. He also must sell his interests by transferring his   ownership to an independent trustee, who will sell them and   reinvest the assets elsewhere in places unbeknown to the   president. Or he could sell and then transfer the proceeds to the   trustee, or make some other similar arrangement.” ’ ”   Trump’s ability to separate his business ties from the presidency   has been questioned extensively in recent weeks. ” ’   During an interview with staff members of  late last month, Trump   claimed ”the president can’’t have a conflict of interest” when   pressed about his business ties. ’ ’   ”The law’’s totally on my side. The president can’’t have a   conflict of interest,” he said, according to tweets from   reporters inside the meeting. ”My company’’s so unimportant to me   relative to what I’’m doing.” ’ ’   ”I’’d assumed that you’’d have to set up some type of trust or   whatever, and you don’’t,” the   later said. ”I   would like to do something.” ’ ’   Asked if he would simply sell his holdings, Trump said it   would be a ”really hard thing to do, because I have real estate.” ’