’  ’ ’   LeEco’s fundraising plans are progressing smoothly and there are   no plans to give up on its supercar dream, billionaire founder   Jia Yueting said on Sunday, reassuring investors about the   company’s capital condition which came under further scrutiny   after trading in the shares of its   unit was   halted last week. ’ ’   “The supply chain problem [of LeEco’s smartphone business] is   being solved gradually, and product supply will return to normal   soon . .. [the company] is moving forward smoothly on related   fundraising plans, and we will make an announcement at an   appropriate time,” Jia said at a business forum in Beijing. ’ ’   Media reports in November said LeEco had defaulted on payments to   its suppliers amid a cash crunch which cast doubt on its plan to   produce an electric car, a dream that Jia has heavily invested   in. ’ ’   Jia said the plan was going ahead and LeEco will announce   substantial progress on its production plant, in Deqing county in   eastern China’s Zhejiang province, by the end of this month. ’ ’   The company announced in August a plan to invest 12 billion yuan   in an electric car factory capable of making 400, 000 cars a year   by 2018. ’ ’   LeEco is also in partnership to make electric cars in the US with   electric car   Faraday Future, which was also said to have   halted construction of its Nevada factory. ’ ’  ’ ’   “We and our strategic partner FF [Faraday Future] will   demonstrate the revolutionary achievement we have made soon,” Jia   said. ’ ’   LeEco has burned through more than 10 billion yuan on its car   investment, putting pressure on the company which is having   difficulty raising cash. ’ ’   Further questions were raised after LeEco’s   unit,   Leshi Internet Information and Technology Corp, halted trading on   December 7. ’ ’   The suspension came after the company’s share fell to as low as   35. 01 yuan over mounting concerns that staff would be laid off to   help trim costs. Also that day, several mainland media reports   cited rumours among traders that margin calls on the credit of   Jia and his brother Jia Yuemin were triggered when the shares   slipped below 35. 21 yuan on December 6. ’ ’   Speaking to the public for the first time after the share   suspension, Jia Yueting said: “Leshi’s share price drop on   December 6 was aimed at interfering with a significant issue we   have planned. Trading has been halted, and capital and business   consolidations are being planned. ” ’ ’   He did not elaborate on the “significant issue” but he did   defend the company over the recent rumours. ’ ’   “Over the past month, LeEco has been encircled by various voices,   and made headlines in the media almost every day. (Describing us   as a) Ponzi scheme, about to go bankrupt . .. LeEco has received   various sensational labels. I have to thank every one who   ‘planned’ all these things behind the scenes. It’s our   competitors that put us on the stage  —   not our friends,” Jia   said. ’