’’ ’’ ’’ ’To combat fake news, Facebook has partnered with a shortlist of media organizations, including Snopes and ABC News, that are part of an international   network led by Poynter, a nonprofit school for journalism located in St. Petersburg, Florida.’ ’Starting as a test with a small percentage of its users in the United States, Facebook will make it easier to report news stories that are fake or misleading. Once   fact checkers have confirmed that the story is fake, it will be labeled as such and demoted in the News Feed.’ ”A company spokesperson told Business Insider that the social network will also use other signals, like algorithms that detect whether a story that appears fake is going viral, to determine if it should label the story as fake and bury it in peoples’ feeds.” ’”We’’ve focused our efforts on the worst of the worst, on the clear hoaxes spread by spammers for their own gain, and on engaging both our community and third party organizations,” Facebook News Feed chief Adam Mosseri  on Thursday.’ ’’ ’A team of Facebook researchers will also review website domains and send sites that appear to be fake or spoofed (like ”washingtonpost. co”) to   fact checkers, a Facebook spokesperson said. Of the 42 news organizations that have committed to  Facebook is starting out with the following four: Snopes, Factcheck. org, ABC News, and PolitiFact.’ ’The Associated Press  a fact checking partner.’ ’”We are only involved to the extent that Facebook relies on the list of signatories to our code of principles as a starting point for the organizations it chooses to verify,” a Poynter spokesperson told Business Insider. ”Facebook is the only organization certifying third party   on its platform. ”’ ’Facebook has given its four initial   partners access to a tool that will let them label stories in the News Feed as fake, a Facebook spokesperson said. The spokesperson said that Facebook is not paying the organizations to fact check.’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’Politicians like President Obama and Hillary Clinton have recently expressed concern about the prevalence of misinformation on social media, with Obama calling it a  and Clinton calling it ’ ’’ ’’ ’”Facebook is a new kind of platform different from anything before it. I think of Facebook as a technology company, but I recognize we have a greater responsibility than just building technology that information flows through,” the Facebook founder said in a Thursday post.’ ’”While we don’’t write the news stories you read and share, we also recognize we’’re more than just a distributor of news. We’’re a new kind of platform for public discourse    and that means we have a new kind of responsibility to enable people to have the most meaningful conversations, and to build a space where people can be informed. ”’ ”You can read Zuckerberg’s full post below:” ’’