’  ’ ’   Snapchat is on the hunt for a wide range of hardware   acquisitions, as it seeks to further its new mission of creating   cameras that can capture a wealth of pictures and videos and   funnel them into its social networks. ’ ’    ’ ’  ’ ’   Snapchat also talked with wearable camera company Narrative about   an acquisition, according to other people familiar with the   situation. The talks also fell through with the     company, which briefly shut down its operations before recently   starting up again.  ’ ’   Both deal talks point to the   company’’s investment   in its : ” ’ ’’ ’   Snap released its first hardware product, sunglasses equipped   with a video camera, in November. The $129  snippets which can be   easily uploaded to the Snapchat service and shared with friends.   That product was the  ’ ’   Vergence had also been working on a   drone   before it was acquired by Snapchat. Drones represent a   particularly intriguing possibility for Snapchat. ’ ’est for comment from Business Insider. Snap declined   comment. ’ ”   And the company isn’t only interested in small cameras  —   Snapchat   has apparently met most of the major augmented reality or virtual   reality startups, including ones focused on building cameras to   enhance virtual realities. As one early stage investor put   it: every VR or AR startup the investor met with had already   talked to Snapchat six months earlier. ” ”   Still, Snap’s acquisitions happen in secret so if it has   purchased a drone or wearable company the news hasn’t been   released. Only seven purchases have leaked in the press  —     and some only because of the giant Sony hack in 2014 that exposed   Snap board member Michael Lynton’s email.  ” ’   Yet, the  with   startups about acquisitions and   throughout many   industries. As the company prepares for a $25 billion IPO in   2017, its dealmaking will increasingly be in the spotlight. ’ ” If you have information about Snap Inc’s deal talks or   acquisitions, message the reporter securely on Confide at   bcarson@businessinsider. com. ” ’ ’