’  ’ ’   Donald Trump secured the necessary 270 electoral votes on Monday   to formally be elected the 45th US president. ’ ”   While  to make Hillary Clinton president instead,   and  in the weeks after the   election to protest Trump’s win, the official results came in as   expected. ” ”   Trump won the popular vote in 30 states and one of Maine’s   districts  —   that state, along with Nebraska, splits up its   electors by district  —   giving him an expected 306 electoral   votes. He needed 270 to win. ” ’   While Clinton won nearly  than he did overall because she carried     states like California and New York, she won the   popular vote in only 20 states plus Washington, DC, giving her an   expected 232 electoral votes. ’ ’   ”We did it!” Trump    after the results were announced. ”Thank you to all of my great   supporters, we just officially won the election (despite all of   the distorted and inaccurate media).” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Despite the protests, only two electors broke ranks to vote   against Trump  —   but Clinton lost five electoral votes. ’ ’   The final electoral tally was 304 votes for Trump, 227 for   Clinton, and seven for other candidates. ’ ’   Members of the Electoral College who go against their state or   district’’s popular vote are rather ominously called ”.” ’ ’   Instead of voting for Trump in  one elector cast his ballot for Ron Paul, and another   voted for Republican presidential candidate John Kasich. ’ ’   On the Clinton side,  voted for Democratic presidential   candidate Bernie Sanders instead. In Washington state, three    for former Secretary of State Colin Powell and   one voted for Native American elder Faith Spotted Eagle. ’ ’   Others tried not to vote for Clinton, too. One elector in   Minnesota  but was replaced with another who   voted for her. An  too, but switched   his vote to Clinton after a second round of voting. In Colorado,   an  before being replaced with an   elector who did vote for Clinton. ’ ’   To become president, Clinton would have needed 38 electors in   states that Trump won to vote for her. ’ ’  ’ ’   Several barriers are in place preventing electors from turning   ”faithless.” ’ ’ an expert in American government and the Electoral   College for the Congressional Research Service, found that    from 1900 to 2012. ’ ’   Thirty states plus DC have  ”binding” their electors to vote for the   candidate who won the state’’s popular vote, and electors are   usually selected by the political parties in each state, Neale   told Business Insider in November. ’ ”   The faithless electors in Washington will each have to pay a    according to state law. But the other faithless   electors  because Texas doesn’t bind its electors   and  doesn’t specify a fine. ” ’   As a final check on the electoral process, members of Congress    and have them   thrown out, when they officially count the ballots in a joint   session on January 6. ’