’  ’ ”   Another study published this week with backing from multinational   food and sugar companies claimed that sugar isn’t that bad for us   after all. ” ”   Don’t believe it. ” ’   The review,    called recent warnings to cut sugar exaggerated and said they are   based on weak evidence. ’ ’   ”Guidelines on dietary sugar do not meet criteria for trustworthy   recommendations and are based on   evidence,” the   authors write in their review. ’ ”   Yet those authors all have links to the food and sugar   industries, a . One of them, Joanne   Slavin, sits on the scientific advisory board of Tate & Lyle,   a leading global supplier of   corn syrup. In   addition, the study’s primary source of funding was a Washington,     group that    General Mills, and   Hershey’s. ” ’   None of this is new, however. ’ ”   In September, a searing Times report revealed that an American   trade group called    the equivalent of today’s average American yearly income to   publish  that made sugar look less   unhealthy than it really is  —   and to paint fat as the villain   instead. ” ’   The review,  featured a handful of studies The Times   alleges were   by the sugar group. ’ ’   ”They were able to derail the discussion about sugar for   decades,” Stanton Glantz, a professor of medicine at the   University of California at San Francisco who researched the   sugar industry’’s impact on our understanding of health, told The   Times. ’ ”   As an American who recently moved to the UK and grew up at the   height of the   diet craze, I find this infuriating. At the   same time, I’m not surprised: Dozens of registered dietitians,     experts, and obesity researchers I’ve spoken with   in the US over the past few years have     the sugar in our diets is far worse for us than the fat. ” ’   Even though I grew up in California with two     parents, our kitchen was still subject to the   frenzy.   Our fridge was always stocked with margarine, not butter;     products (rather than   or    ones) ruled our   pantry. Even today, if I were to take a walk down the ”health   foods” aisle of my hometown grocery store, I’’d most likely find   its shelves teeming with   ( ) foods. ’ ’  ’ ”   The good news is that we’re finally uncovering the truth. ” ”   We now know, for example, that, for most people, cutting fat from   our diet not only fails to help us lose weight  —   it also doesn’t   slash our risk of heart disease. An  roughly half of whom   went on a   diet, found that those on the   plan   didn’t lower their risk of  or . Plus, they . Another  took a look at what would happen if people swapped the   calories they were getting from specific types of fat with   calories from simple carbohydrates (sugar) and . ” ’   Excess sugar, on the other hand (especially in the form of soda)   has been linked with several negative outcomes, including weight   gain and obesity. A  of 50 years of studies published in the American   Society for Clinical Nutrition in 2006 found a link between the   amount of   beverages people consumed and weight   gain and obesity. ’ ’   ”The science base linking the consumption of     beverages to the risk of chronic diseases is clear,” the authors   wrote in their paper. ’ ’   When we eat large amounts of sugar and don’’t balance these   calories with those from protein and fat, which the body breaks   down more slowly, it can lead to dramatic rises and drops in   blood sugar. These ”crashes” can cause ”hanger,” or what’’s known   as being angry and hungry at the same time. ’ ’   All carbohydrates  —   bread, cereal, or potatoes  —   are ultimately    which circulates in our blood and   gives us energy. Sugars get broken down quickly and tend to raise   blood glucose most dramatically. And, according to the Centers   for Disease Control and Prevention, most of the calories that   Americans are getting from sugar are coming from  breads, and cakes. ’ ’   For the    in which researchers looked at the effects of swapping calories   from fat with those from sugar, researchers studied the eating   habits of more than 126, 000 people who submitted health   questionnaires every few years for up to three decades. Next, the   authors tested what would happen if those people swapped out 5%   of the calories in their diets from saturated fat (the types of   fats most often found in meat and dairy products) with one of   three other things: A) calories from simple carbohydrates like   sugars and refined grains; B) calories from monounsaturated fats,   like the kind found in avocados and olive oil; or C) calories   from polyunsaturated fats, like the kind found in oily fish and   nuts. ’ ’  ’ ’   Not surprisingly, the first option  —   replacing the calories from   saturated fats with calories from simple carbs  —   was not linked   with any observable health benefits. ’ ’   But the second and third options appeared to be connected with   several healthy outcomes. Overall, swapping calories from   saturated fats with calories from monounsaturated fats, like the   kind found in avocados and olive oil, was linked with a 27%   decrease in death of any kind as well as lower rates of heart   disease, cancer, and neurodegenerative disease. ’ ”   This is in line with dozens of recent studies supporting the idea   that healthy fats, like those from nuts, fish, and avocados, are   good for us, so long as we eat them in moderation. So add them   back into your diet if you haven’t already, and look to cut back   on your intake of refined carbs and sugary snack foods instead. ”