’  ’ ”     Donald Trump’s dramatic candidacy catapulted the   three cable news networks to their best year ever, with each   outlet experiencing   numbers, according to     ratings from Nielsen Media Research. ” ’   Fox News fared the best in 2016, not only beating its rival cable   news networks, but also finishing the year as the     basic cable network  —   in both primetime and total day  —   for the   first time in its   history. ’ ’   In primetime, Fox News averaged 2. 4 million viewers in 2016,   making it the    primetime network in all of   television, behind only the big three networks and Fox. ’ ”   CNN also saw a boon in ratings. 2016 proved to be the channel’s     year among total viewers. ” ’   In primetime, CNN placed eighth with an average of 1. 3 million   viewers, its highest ranking since 1995. ’ ’’ ’   And while MSNBC finished behind both CNN and Fox, it experienced   significant growth, outpacing its rival networks in     gains. 2016 was also its   year. ’ ”   While ratings for cable news networks always increase during   election years, the jolt each outlet received in 2016 was   undoubtedly a direct result of Trump’s bombastic candidacy. ” ”   The  ’s outlandish style  —   mixed with his   unpredictable personality  —   made campaign events, interviews, and   debates   television. ” ’   ”Trump deserves ALL the credit for this banner year in cable   news. Period,” said Erik Wemple, a media columnist at The   Washington Post. ”Any cable news executive who insists otherwise   risks eternal embarrassment.” ’ ’   Joe Concha, a media columnist at The Hill, agreed, though he said   Trump didn’’t ”deserve all the credit” and suggested the ”highly   polarized country” also played ”perfectly into the cable news   model.” ’ ’   ”Those who were loyal watched every rally, hung on every tweet,   watched every cable news segment debate. Those who loathe him   watched every rally, hung on every tweet, watched every cable   news segment debate,” Concha said. ’ ’   It’’s an incidental twist. While Trump regularly attacked the   media in 2016, characterizing members of the press as ”dishonest”   people who are the ”scum” of the earth, his candidacy  —   and   likely his presidency  —   financially helped each of the cable news   outlets. ’ ’   Or as Jim Rutenberg, a New York Times media columnist, put it in    ”As Mr. Trump tries to burn the media   village down, he may just be saving it.” ’