’  ’ ’   One of the most exciting things for Wall Street about     Donald Trump is his promise to . ’ ’   Several top equity strategists, all bullish on stocks in 2017,   told  that the  is little progress on tax reform   by midyear. ’ ’   ”Republicans should focus on implementing this tax cut in a   significant, speedy, and simple manner if they want it to be   successful,”  the chief US equity strategist at Deutsche   Bank, wrote in a recent note. ’ ”   US companies have a tax rate of about 39% the highest among   developed countries. They’re taxed on worldwide income, but only   if the profits are returned home. A lower tax rate could   encourage companies to repatriate some of the profits they’ve   kept abroad to avoid taxes. In theory, that could encourage   investment and hiring. ” ’   However, the tax windfall is more likely to immediately benefit   shareholders much more than it would the broader economy,   according to a global strategy note from Pavilion published   Wednesday. ’ ’   ”Tax breaks to encourage firms to repatriate their foreign cash   holdings have tended to overwhelmingly benefit shareholders,   largely through share buybacks,” the note said. ”Conversely,   these deals have had little impact on   investment or   employment. Going forward, we question the efficacy of another   tax break and think   could in fact be low.” ’ ’   The firm looked into the last time tax reform triggered a big   repatriation of funds to the US. That was in 2004, when the   American Jobs Creation Act was passed. US companies retrieved   $362 billion, or 45% of their foreign cash holdings, according to   Pavilion. Of that, $312 billion was eligible to be taxed at a   5. 25% rate instead of the 35% rate of the time. What Pavilion   found was that this break did not increase investment in the   economy. ’ ’   Companies that benefitted the most immediately hired more   workers. But the pace was inconsistent, Pavilion said, adding   that some of these new workers may have been accountants and   lawyers needed to implement the repatriation. To be fair, the   number of employees they had right before the recession was   higher compared with the trough when the AJCA was passed. ’ ’  ’ ’   At the same time, they steadily increased the level of dividend   payments to shareholders and hiked share buybacks to boost stock   prices. ’ ’  ’ ’   Analysts at Credit Suisse were slightly more optimistic about the   effect of corporate tax reform on economic growth, although they   think it is less likely to be implemented in 2017 than personal   income tax reform. ’ ’   ”Given the complex tax code, and its disparate effects across   sectors, the suggested final version of reform is contentious,”   James Sweeney wrote in a note on Tuesday. ’ ’   One aspect of the proposed reform is a   tax on   imported goods to encourage domestic production. Although this   could reduce incentives for companies to base their activities   offshore, a rise in the dollar could lower import costs and   offset this tax burden. ’ ’   Additionally, border adjustment could cost Trump some   congressional votes from Republicans opposed to the idea, Sweeney   said. ’ ’   ”If it gets done in 2017, whether with border adjustment or not,   we think the reduction in marginal tax rates will be on net a   positive for the US economy, and we would consider this to be   some additional stimulus on top of what happens with personal   income taxes,” Sweeney wrote. ’