’  ’ ”   Carl Icahn, the hedge fund titan, will be a part of Donald   Trump’s administration. ” ’   Icahn will be a special adviser to the   overseeing   regulation specifically, according to the transition. ’ ’   The investor has long been a critic of various government   regulatory agencies, most . ’ ’   ”Carl was with me from the beginning, and with his being one of   the world’’s great businessmen, that was something I truly   appreciated,” Trump said in a release from the transition. ’ ’   ”He is not only a brilliant negotiator, but also someone who is   innately able to predict the future, especially having to do with   finances and economies. His help on the strangling regulations   that our country is faced with will be invaluable.” ’ ’’ ”   According to a  Icahn has already   assisted the transition with vetting candidates for the EPA   chief. The nomination  the attorney general of Oklahoma.   Icahn’s experience with the EPA comes from several investments in   oil and gas companies. ” ’   Icahn will also have a role in selecting the new head of the   Securities and Exchange Commission, . ’ ’   Icahn is a  and an advocate for   the   since before the Republican primaries. The   hedge fund legend has said Trump will bring economic growth back   to America by rolling back regulation and giving companies the   ability to invest again. ’ ’   ”I am proud to serve   Trump as a special adviser   on regulatory reform,” Icahn said in a press release. ”Under   President Obama, America’’s business owners have been crippled by   over $1 trillion in new regulations and over 750 billion hours   dealing with paperwork. It’’s time to break free of excessive   regulation and let our entrepreneurs do what they do best: create   jobs and support communities.” ’ ’   The role, according to the Trump announcement, will not be an   official government position and will not have any ”specific   duties.” ’ ”   Icahn is estimated to be worth about $16. 7 billion, according to   Forbes. Icahn’s appointment adds another billionaire to Trump’s   top advisory team, a group that already has a . ” ”   Icahn’s investment fund fell 12. 7% this year through the end of   September, according to a . ”