’  ’ ’   When Jared Kushner swooped in to buy the New York Observer in   2006, he embarked on a mini media tour, posing with the paper at   parties and sitting down with esteemed media reporters from    and . ’ ’   But after a decade as the owner of the iconic New York newspaper,   Kushner appears to be angling for a much quieter exit. ’ ’ on Wednesday that Kushner was exploring a sale,   potentially to American Media Inc. which owns the National   Enquirer. And one New York media source previously told Business   Insider, ”I know from the rumor mill he’’s been trying to sell the   Observer.” ’ ”   Kushner’s close associates were quick to tamp down speculation. ” ’   ”While Observer is not for sale, as one of the     businesses in all of digital media, we are constantly being   approached by potential investors and partners,” Observer Media   CEO Joseph Meyer said in a statement to Business Insider. He did   not specify the identity of the potential investors or partners. ’ ”   The purchase of the Observer, along with several other media   properties, in 2006 marked Kushner’s foray into expanding his   influence beyond the successful family   business, a   personal quest that hinted at greater ambitions and vision within   the New York media industry. ” ”   Kushner, the    of   Donald Trump and the   husband of his daughter Ivanka, has spent most of his time over   the past 18 months in a different role. Since Trump launched his   campaign, the    confidante often played the      foil to the bombastic   mogul,   shepherding his   ’s campaign through several major   staff overhauls and maintaining ties with the Republican National   Committee. ” ’   ”It’’s hard to overstate and hard to summarize Jared’’s role in the   campaign,” VC billionaire Peter Thiel, Trump’’s biggest support in   the tech world, . ”If Trump was the CEO, Jared was effectively the   chief operating officer.” ’ ’   Like Trump himself, Kushner is an enigmatic figure even to many   of his employees and business partners, seeming to relish doing   things his own way while leaving people guessing about his true   motivations. ’ ’   ”If the   rising up around Trump’’s candidacy and   online presence didn’’t bother him as an orthodox Jew and grandson   of Holocaust survivors, then who can fathom his moves as a   publisher and mini media mogul? He’’s an enigma to me,” New York   University journalism professor Jay Rosen told Business Insider. ’ ”   But a close look at Kushner’s investments show an occasionally   determined effort to establish himself as a media industry leader   and hint at how he’d adapt to a potential role in the White   House. ” ”   Business Insider spoke with more than a dozen people who know or   have worked with Kushner. To some, Kushner’s media moves stand as   early examples of the   scion’s dexterity in adapting   to unfamiliar territory, displaying a quick grasp of the facts, a     intellect, and a disciplined fiscal management   style. ” ’   But according to others close to Kushner, his frequent forays   into digital and print media  —   a mishmash of new ventures and   disjointed acquisitions  —   often lacked vision, cohesion, and   passion. To them, his endeavors were marked by misfires that have   left some wondering whether it was all just a   vanity   project or simply an expedient stepping stone to prestige and   influence. ’ ”   One person close to Kushner told Business Insider that real   estate has always been at the center of Kushner’s professional   life, describing his forays into media as him looking for   opportunities to turn around sagging publications. ” ’   ”In the scheme of Jared’’s professional life, this is like an   appetizer,” the person said. ”Real estate is the core.” ’ ’   Kushner declined to comment for this article. ’ ’   Kushner was born into the   business as the youngest   son of Charles Kushner, a New Jersey   baron who fell   from grace in dramatic fashion. When the elder Kushner was   sentenced in 2005 to two years in prison for crimes including tax   evasion and witness tampering, Jared, at 24, was suddenly handed   the reins to the business. ’ ”   Over the course of a decade, the younger Kushner became the     landlord in the East Village, making splashy   purchases that included Brooklyn’s Watchtower, the Puck Building,   and the $1. 8 billion purchase of 666 Fifth Ave. ” ’   At the same time, he was amassing a collection of properties and   developments throughout Manhattan, he set to work building a   parallel mini empire of media properties that included everything   from a Las Vegas weekly to luxury magazines and news blogs. ’ ’   It was media, not real estate, that earned Kushner his  in a 2006 story about   his negotiations to buy the Observer. ’ ’   The $10 million deal brought Kushner, who was until then little   known in New York City society, instant clout and recognition.   The paper, perpetually losing money, wielded an outsize influence   among Manhattan elite, and several sources told Business Insider   it was a way for Kushner to have a voice in New York. ’ ’   The Observer has always been ”a toy for rich people to sort of   get their point of view about art and real estate and culture out   there,” Ken Kurson, the current editor of the Observer, . ’ ’   ”That’’s exactly what Jared wanted,” he added. ’ ’  ’ ’   But since Kushner’’s purchase of the Observer in 2006, he has   repeatedly tried  —   with mixed results  —   to turn this ”toy” into   the center of a mini media empire and a   business. ’ ”   In January 2008, Kushner  about a   investment to launch   a network of 50 local news sites, modeled after the Observer’s   Politicker blog. The goal was to fill the political news void   created by failing local papers, Kushner said. ” ’   The organization was to create ”50 news bureaus with     reporters in each state,” Robert Sommer, the Observer Media   Group’’s president, told The Times. ’ ’   The project failed miserably. Before the year was up, Kushner   abruptly shut down 12 of the new state sites, claiming that he   was going to focus on profitability. A month later he shut down   three more, leaving just the remaining original Politicker sites. ’ ’   At the same time, Kushner was looking to make a major splash in   New York local media through acquisitions. ’ ”   Months after launching Politicker’s national blog, the Observer   Media Group offered to buy Newsday for  from the Tribune Company, jockeying with   media heavyweights including 21st Century Fox’s Rupert Murdoch  —     a friend of the Kushners  —   and Mort Zuckerman. ” ’   The young developer originally planned to partner with   Cablevision on the purchase, but various reports said that   Kushner  or was cut out by the cable giant when   it decided to purchase the Long Island news outlet alone. ’ ’   In another instance, Kushner completed a deal but seemed to take   little interest and offer little direction. ’ ’   When the internet media conglomerate IAC put its Very Short List   daily newsletter up for sale in 2009, Kushner was  paying less than $1 million for   the asset. ’ ’   Kushner quickly laid off staff and eliminated sections he deemed   unnecessary while attempting to develop ideas to monetize the   newsletter with ads. Today, the Observer shares the newsletter  —     which mostly consists of several paragraphs about a single item   review or recommendation  —   less than once a day at best. ’ ”   Kurt Andersen, VSL’s cofounder, said that though he was not   involved with the sale, he had several meetings with Kushner in   the first six months after Kushner took over. ” ’   ”He was polite and not unintelligent, and that was that,”   Andersen said in an email. ’ ’  ’ ’   After a few years as an aspiring media mogul, Kushner took a   crack at innovating in the magazine arena. ’ ’   But even then, Kushner’’s motives and ambitions were unclear to   many. Peter Davis, the former editor in chief of Scene magazine,   whose tag was ”affluence and influence,” said the publication   seemed to be more Ivanka Trump’’s idea than Kushner’’s. ’ ’   ”I think she told him to meet with me,” Davis said. ”Ivanka had   his ear a lot. It was more her wheelhouse, more her world.” ’ ’   And during Scene’’s run, Davis said Kushner didn’’t give feedback   on particular stories. He responded to ”the look” of the magazine   ”more than anything,” Davis said. ’ ”   Scene was part of a slate of magazines Kushner launched around   2011, including the   luxury magazine Yue and the   parenting magazine Scooter. And Kushner even took a brief   interest in purchasing The New Republic in 2012, before it sold   to another young media owner, Facebook’s Chris Hughes. ” ’   ”Part of business strategy was to have these magazines that could   bring in revenue and reach a different audience,” said Peter   Feld, the former editor in chief of Scooter magazine, which   focused on raising children in Manhattan and existed from 2011 to   2014. ’ ’   Scooter replaced Observer Playground, a   supplement   whose editor had been involved in a  over promised coverage in return for an unpaid   dental bill. When Feld met Kushner, the latter quipped about   Playground: ”Your teeth are OK,” Kushner said, according to Feld. ’ ”   Good teeth weren’t enough to save Scooter, though. Feld said   Scooter was making a profit, thanks in large part to     advertising. But a new management team appointed by Kushner   decided Scooter was putting a strain on the Observer’s shared   resources, such as its ad sales. ” ’   The mandate was to downsize and streamline. And by the end of   2014, Scooter, Scene, and Yue were all shut down. ’ ’   Not all of the magazines the Observer Media Group promoted   failed. ’ ”   Justin Weniger and Ryan Doherty met Kushner a decade ago through   mutual friends in New York. The three hit it off, sensing what   Weniger described as an entrepreneurial kinship  —   the Las Vegas   duo were   club promoters who’d recently launched a   monthly Vegas magazine dedicated to lifestyle and entertainment. ” ’   When Weniger and Doherty decided to bump their publication from   monthly to weekly, they reached out to Kushner for advice.   Instead, they got an investment and partnership with Observer   Media Group in 2010. ’ ’   Though Kushner maintains his investment, Weniger said Kushner and   Observer Media are almost completely uninvolved, save for a   semiannual earnings review. ’ ’   ”It really wasn’’t too financially driven or even      —   it was really just something that started as a friendship, even   when we were making the deal,” Weniger said. ”It wasn’’t like we   started there and negotiated back and forth about the value of   the company or the percentage. There was never a harsh   negotiation. He approached everything like it was our business   but something he wanted to be supportive of.” ’ ’   He added: ”He’’s undoubtedly one of the smartest people I’’ve ever   been in a room with. He’’s never not taken a call, no matter how   big or small, and at the same time he’’s never called once to be   like, ’’Where are we at with this? ’’ He’’s never forced himself in   our business, but he’’s always been there for us, for anything   we’’ve needed.” ’ ’   Kushner is described by those close to him as   loyal,   and relatively    —   a polar opposite from the     image his    embraced. ’ ’   To those not in his inner circle, ”he’’s almost like Teflon,”   Davis said. He’’s ”kind of untouchable, much like politicians, who   keep you on your toes” by not letting you know what’’s going on   inside their heads. ’ ”     and eternally polite, Kushner is the man standing   calmly behind Trump’s bombast, smoothing the edges. ” ’   In July, Trump was accused of   by a writer at the   Observer itself after the Republican presidential nominee   retweeted an image critical of Hillary Clinton that had a Jewish   star. ’ ”   Kushner responded to the writer he employed with his own     defending his   . Raised in an Orthodox Jewish   household, Kushner referenced his grandparents’ history surviving   the Holocaust and advised people to save the outrage for the real   racists. Several cousins from an estranged branch of the Kushner   family blasted him for invoking the family history to defend   Trump. ” ’   As Trump prepares to take office, he is already presenting   Kushner as one of his main liaisons with the business world. ’ ”   And as the recent summit of tech executives at New York’s Trump   Tower showed, Kushner is willing to parachute into an industry   where he doesn’t have expertise and to speak with titans like   Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos, Apple CEO Tim Cook, and Google cofounder   Larry Page. ” ’   ”Jared’’s big skill is how quickly he learns things,” Kurson said   in the Recode podcast. ”That’’s really his greatest strength. It’’s   one of the reasons he gets underestimated.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Like Trump, Kushner prizes loyalty and family. ’ ”   His latest strategy for the Observer is being spearheaded by two   trusted allies: Meyer, Kushner’s    who became   chairman and CEO of Observer Media Group in 2013, and Kurson, who   is a close personal friend of both Kushner and his father and   became editor in chief that same year. ” ’   The goal under their tenure has been to turn the Observer into   something broader than a New York paper. In November, the   Observer discontinued its print edition, a move portrayed by   management as a bid to become a national online publication and a   reaction to the industrywide decline in print advertising. In a   statement to Business Insider, Kurson said the Observer had grown   its audience seven times over since Meyer took over in January   2013. ’ ’  ’ ’   But some insiders say that changes at the Observer have led to an   erosion of its underlying identity. ’ ’   ”It’’s lost all of its voice,” Feld said. ”Print or digital, it   doesn’’t really matter. They have completely killed the Observer’’s   DNA.” ’ ”   The Observer’s main site increasingly features contributors, who   provide a   traffic boost but have saddled the Observer   with a reputation in some circles for being a     partisan mouthpiece. ” ’   ”There are still good reporters, and their work is being   completely overshadowed by some of the absurd ” a current   Observer employee said. ’ ’   Kurson described any political skewing in the contributor network   as ”total bullshit.” ’ ’   ”We had Jon Reinish, respected Democratic strategist and great   writer, lobbing cluster bombs at Trump on a regular basis,”   Kurson said. ’ ’   ”Our contributor Brent Budowsky was so   that he  ” he   added, referring to the WikiLeaks email hacks of former Clinton   campaign chair John Podesta. ’ ’   Kurson has another explanation for the criticism. ’ ’   ”The reason we get accused of carrying water is not just the   family relationship of our publisher, but the fact that we took   Trump seriously as a candidate from day one,” he said. ’ ’   He continued: ’ ”   Rumors of Kushner’s meddling in the Observer’s political coverage   were categorically denied by staffers interviewed by Business   Insider. ” ’   In fact, several former Observer employees told Business Insider   that Kushner seemed almost exclusively interested in lists and     coverage. Kushner took particular interest in the   Commercial Observer, the   trade publication he   launched, and its ”Power 100,” which decides the most powerful   people in real estate, more than anything else. ’ ”   Some also suggested that Kushner’s interest in the Observer was   fleeting, while others said he focused the vast majority of his   time on building his   empire, with almost random   interests in different media projects. ” ’   ”You look at this, you look at that, he did this, he did that  —     keep in mind, add it all up and it’’s less than one of his new   buildings in Manhattan or Brooklyn or Jersey City,” a former top   Observer figure told Business Insider. ’ ’   Others with favorable opinions of Kushner acknowledge that while   he changed the Observer, he was simply searching for a way to   keep the historic institution afloat financially. ’ ’   ”He bought absolutely, positively, a dying publication in the   Observer,” the former top employee said. ”It was a cultural icon,   but it was also within hours of becoming a cultural relic. So   when you change something, everyone gets upset, and Jared changed   it because what it was couldn’’t possibly continue to exist   financially.” ’ ’   But still, morale at the Observer is low and many are looking for   the exits, current and former staffers said. ’ ’   ”I don’’t think [the low morale comes from] the ” one   current employee said. ”I think it’’s the involvement with the   Trump family and lack of editorial direction.” ’ ’   One source also told Business Insider that Kushner may be   preparing to jettison the Observer altogether as his attention   turns to Washington. ’ ’   As one current Observer staffer said in response to a question   about Kushner’’s role in potential   editorial meddling at   the news organization, ”I really think he has bigger fish to fry   at the moment, for better or worse.” ’