’  ’ ’   Tesla started 2016 as an   maker that had branched out   into energy storage. ’ ”   By the end of the year, Elon Musk’s company has become an   automaker, an energy company, the builder of a massive battery   factory in Nevada, and a solar company through its merger with   SolarCity. ” ’   Tesla is also on track to delivery about 80, 000 vehicles in 2016,   more than ever before. ’ ’   So it was a big year. But 2017 will be even bigger. ’ ’   Here are the major things that Tesla has in store: ’ ”   Tesla’s   vehicle, which will be priced at around   $30, 000 after tax breaks and serve up 200 miles of range on a   single charge, is scheduled to launch in late 2017. There’s   skepticism about whether Tesla will be able to meet that goal,   but the Model 3 should be far easier to build than the delayed   Model X SUV was. ” ”   Make no mistake  —   this is Tesla most important execution point of   the entire year. Bringing in the Model 3 on time will vindicate   Musk’s promises, vision, and ambitions. The vehicle will also   enable Tesla to start fulfilling the nearly 400, 000 preorders   that have come in for the vehicle. Interested buyers put down   $1, 000 each to reserve a Model 3. ” ”   The first important product from the     will   be the solar roof. Effectively, it will turn an entire roof into   a giant, durable solar panel. It will also likely be an expensive   product. But it will feed into Tesla’s other products  —   and   provide Tesla with a way to free SolarCity from its current   leasing model, moving toward selling solar solutions rather than   loaning them out. ” ’  ’ ”   Musk has done a complete 180 on car sharing, likely compelled by   Uber’s success and by the advent of   and     schemes from traditional automakers. Up to this point, he’s   talked a good game about enabling owners to make money off their   Teslas when they’d otherwise be sitting in the driveway  —   while   perhaps not really expecting that the owner of a $100, 000 luxury   car would want to lend it out and have it come back with a few   dents and a bunch of McDonald’s wrappers in the backseat. ” ”   But now Tesla will likely start to build out a network,   leveraging its vehicles’ software and Tesla Autopilot suite of     features. So look for the Tesla Network to be   discussed far more in 2017. ” ’   Tesla is changing the way it manages its Supercharger network. It   eliminated free access for new owners in 2016, and it introduced   an idle fee for owners who leave their vehicles parked too long   at a Supercharger station after fully recharging. ’ ’   The objective is to make the Superchargers the standard for     trips while encouraging owners to do their regular   recharges are home. Tesla is likely to expand its worldwide   Supercharger network, especially in China, where the company has   at times struggled to convince prospective owners that ”range   anxiety” isn’’t a problem with Teslas. ’ ’  ’ ”   Speaking of China, it’s one of Tesla’s largest potential new   markets. But at the moment, the carmaker has to import all its   vehicles, which cuts into profitability. ” ”   The way to change that is to set up local manufacturing, which in   China can be done only through a joint venture with a Chinese   firm. Some might worry that this would compromise Tesla’s   technology, but the company has already   its patents,   so it’s not much of a concern. ” ’   Look for Tesla to get aggressive about a Chinese joint venture in   2017. ’ ’   Earlier in 2016, Musk addressed questions about Tesla’’s uneven   production capabilities by saying he wanted to focus on being one   of the best manufacturers in the world. Part of that plan appears   to be a radical reinvention of what’’s known as ”vertical   integration”  —   in essence, a manufacturer making everything that   goes into its products. ’ ’   Henry Ford built his business with this approach, but for the   past four decades, vertical integration has been replaced in the   auto industry by ”just in time,” or ”lean,” production, with a   manufacturer managing a complex supply chain and running minimal   inventories. Toyota pioneered this approach, and it’’s been widely   emulated. ’ ’   Musk seems to want to go back to vertical integration. His idea   is to transform Tesla’’s factory in California so significantly   that you wouldn’’t recognize it  —   it would resemble an ”alien   dreadnought.” Musk thinks that to achieve Tesla’’s bold target of   500, 000 vehicles delivered annually by 2018, a lot more   automation will have to enter the picture. ’ ”   He’s kept his ideas about this under the radar, but expect them   to burst into view in 2017. ” ’  ’ ’   Autopilot was being improved mainly through software updates, but   in 2016, Tesla began to push the envelope on hardware. ’ ’   The company now thinks of hardware and software releases as being   similarly iterative, with ”Hardware 2” now being installed in new   Teslas. ’ ’   As the big story in the car business has shifted from electric   cars to   vehicles, we can expect Tesla to double down   on its Autopilot advantage, even as it continues to deal with the   aftermath of a fatal   Tesla crash in May 2016. ’ ”   Tesla has been hinting that it will update its first vehicle, the      Roadster, with a new model. I’d expect 2017   would be a good year to begin showcasing some possible designs.   This would energize the Tesla base and, for what it’s worth, add   a proper sports car to the lineup  —   which, if all goes according   to plan in 2017, will include the Model X SUV, the Model S sedan,   and the Model 3 in a sedan and maybe a crossover version. ” ”   Speaking of a crossover Model 3, it’s rumored to be called Model   Y. ” ”   We already know what the Model 3 sedan will look like, and   Tesla’s goal all along has been for the Model 3 to be a platform   on which different types of vehicles can be built. As we get   close to a Model 3 launch in 2017, we will almost certainly start   to see designs for, and perhaps even a prototype of, the Model Y. ” ’  ’ ”   And why not? As long as we’re expecting a new Roadster and the   Model Y, how about a Tesla with a bed in the back? ” ”   Musk has said that Tesla won’t need to raise new capital by   selling stock in 2016, but the cost of absorbing SolarCity for   more than $2 billion and taking on billions in SolarCity debt   could undermine his resolve. Tesla has managed to burn less cash   in 2016 than expected, but cars are a   business,   and the money won’t do Tesla any good if it can’t launch the   Model 3 on time. ” ’   Additionally, Tesla can use and has used Wall Street like an ATM.   With the stock back above $200 a share, it would be foolish for   the company to avoid a capital raise in 2017  —   it could use the   money. ’ ”   Tesla has always been a volatile stock  —   shares have risen from   around $17 after the 2010 initial public offering to over $200 at   the close of 2016. But sometimes the volatility has been . .. more   volatile. Wild swings of $100 a share over a month or so haven’t   been uncommon. ” ’   That hypervolatility settled down somewhat in 2016, but with the   pressure on for Tesla to hit what will probably be deliveries   guidance of about 200, 000 vehicles in 2017, launch the Model 3,   and integrate the SolarCity financials, the stock could jump   around a lot on every little bit of news. ’ ’  ’ ”   Musk has  but as I’ve written, there are no two brains on   earth that are more different. ” ”   Beyond that, however, a Trump White House and executive branch   may not be all that receptive to Musk’s grand vision of   accelerating humanity’s departure from the   era. It   also remains to seen whether federal incentive to support   electric cars will continue under Trump, not to mention     initiatives pressed forward by President Barack   Obama. ” ’   It took Musk 10 years to update his original ”Master Plan” with   last year’’s ”Master Plan, Part Deux.” But the world seems to be   moving faster now  —   and Tesla could quintuple in size by 2018. So   Musk may undertake more frequent updates. ’ ’   When Tesla introduced Ludicrous Mode for its Model S, a feature   that yields   acceleration, Musk joked that the   only thing faster would be ”Maximum Plaid.” Both terms are   references to Mel Brooks’’ 1987 ”Star Wars” spoof, ”Spaceballs.” ’ ’   Ludicrous Mode keeps getting more ludicrous, so 2017 could be the   year to unleash Maximum Plaid. ’