’  ’ ’   The prime suspect in the German Christmas market attack   was from a north African country that has become a breeding   ground for extremism and is one of the top exporters of   jihadists. ’ ’   Tunisia was once thought to be an Arab Spring success story  —   it      the ”sole democratic success” of the uprisings that swept the   Middle East starting in 2010. ’ ’   But the country has been struggling with an extremism   problem that was exacerbated with the arrival of the terrorist   group ISIS, which has attracted thousands of Tunisian recruits. A    by The Soufan Group, a strategic security firm,   found that Tunisia supplied more foreign fighters to   ISIS than any other country, between 6, 000 and 7, 000 as of   October of that year. ’ ”   One Tunisian ISIS supporter drove a truck through a   Christmas market in Berlin earlier this week, killing 12 people   and injuring dozens more, according to authorities. Tunisia   native Anis Amri, who was killed in a Friday shootout with   police, was German authorities’ prime suspect in the   attack. Officials had been investigating Amri, but after   surveilling him for months, they couldn’t find any evidence of a   specific plot. ” ’   ISIS . ’ ’   Amri left Tunisia for Italy after the 2011 revolution. He arrived   in Germany in July 2015, but his application for asylum was   rejected this June. ’ ’   He had a criminal history  —   he spent time in an Italian prison   for setting fire to a school and was known to be a     drug dealer  —   and reportedly  earlier this year.   He was also thought to have had contact with a suspected ISIS   recruiter who was arrested in November. ’ ”   Amri’s story was similar to that of other Tunisians who have   joined jihadist groups. ” ’   George Packer, a staff writer for the New Yorker,  to investigate the spread   of extremism there. ’ ’   He explained: ”Before the revolution, Tunisia had been kept   rigidly secular. Now the black flag of radical Islam flew over   many buildings, and   known as Salafis  —   the word   refers to the original followers of the Prophet Muhammad  —   took   advantage of the new openness and tried to impose Sharia in their   neighborhoods.” ’ ’   When Tunisia cracked down on these Salafis, they simply went   underground, according to Packer. ’ ’   And with a  in neighboring Libya, young people with few   options for a prosperous future in Tunisia feel that traveling to   join the terrorist group could lead to a better life for   them. ’ ’   An unemployed telecommunications engineer, Nabil Selliti,   said he joined ISIS because it offered him opportunities in his   career field, according to the New Yorker. ’ ’   ”I can’t build anything in this country,” he said. ”But the   Islamic State gives us the chance to create, to build bombs, to   use technology.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Some young people in Tunisia feel that the revolution did not   significantly improve their lives. One young person lamented to   Packer that ”the rich in Tunisia get richer, and the poor get   poorer.” ’ ”   And terrorist attacks inside the country have hurt   Tunisia’s tourism industry, which previously provided   thousands of jobs and accounted for 8% of the country’s GDP,    Reuters. ” ’   Henry Wismayer visited Tunisia earlier this year for Vice to look   into how a major terror attack on a beach and hotel had   affected the country. ’ ’   He explained: ” The abrupt decline of Tunisia’’s tourist   industry, many say, feels like a betrayal of the optimism that   accompanied the Arab Spring in 2011. . .. Tunisia’’s     pluralism has turned it into a target for extremists,     on creating an Islamic world under the boot heel of Sharia law.” ’ ”   Still, not every Tunisian ISIS supporter is compelled to join a   terrorist group because of poverty or lack of opportunity. ISIS’   core ideology seems to hold appeal for some, even those who have   means. ” ’   A    architecture student, Ahmed Amine Jebri, told   Yaroslav Trofimov of The Wall Street Journal earlier this   year that ”so many people have left from here, and quite a few of   them were rather  .” ’ ’   ”Some in the neighborhood believe these guys are fools who had   gone to Syria to get killed,” he said. ”But many others say they   are now in paradise with the virgins.” ’ ”   Moncef Marzouki, a   activist who was democratic   Tunisia’s first president from 2011 to 2014, told the Journal   that popular disappointment is spreading in Tunisia. ” ’   ”It’’s not the matter of tackling socioeconomic roots,” he said.   ”You have to go deeper and understand that these guys have a   dream  —   and we don’’t. We had a dream  —   our dream was called the   Arab Spring. And our dream is now turning into a nightmare. But   the young people need a dream, and the only dream available to   them now is the caliphate.” ’ ’ Jake Kanter contributed to this report. ’