’  ’ ’   Every year, the US Department of Agriculture   devotes  to farmers in rural areas. ’ ’   The government is increasingly starting to offer   assistance to urban farms, too. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’   ”Urban farmers are not ’ ”   In 2016, nine young farmers participating in a  called Square Roots, founded   by entrepreneurs Kimbal Musk (Elon’s brother) and Tobias Peggs,   became the first urban farmers to receive microloans in New York. ” ’   Farmers selected for Square Roots grow their crops inside       shipping containers. The Square Roots   farmers used their loans to cover the costs of seeds and   operating expenses before their first harvests, Peggs says. ’ ’  ’ ’   Peggs and Musk worked with the USDA to streamline the 2016   microloan application, which will make it even easier for urban   farmers to gain funding in the future. ’ ’   ’ ’   Earlier in 2016, the USDA also published an ”,” which includes advice about how to   launch a greenhouse or rooftop farm, and how to apply for loans. ’ ’  ’ ’   The majority of USDA grants and loans still go to rural farms,   but the agency is making an active effort to give urban farmers   equal opportunities. Dolcini says these efforts were highlighted   under the Obama administration, with the launch of   the   ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Agriculture was not a significant part of Trump’s platform. But   his  and  may hint at   what his presidency could mean for the future of urban farming. A   number have emphasized rural farming in their work. Some have   also have  for industrial farming, a process in which   food is produced on a huge scale in rural areas. ” ’  ’ ’   These initiatives underscore a growing movement within the USDA   to support local food systems and look beyond rural agriculture. ’ ’   ”The global population is expected to be 9 billion by 2050. We   really need to pull every farm into finding solutions for that  —     not just folks out in the Midwest who grow the lion’’s share of   food but also those in urban agriculture,” he says. ’ ”   Though the modern local agriculture movement sprouted up in the   late ’90s, it has grown rapidly in cities in recent years. Today,   urban farmers are not just growing a few tomatoes on rooftops,   they’re moving toward commercial production. ” ”   In 2016, the world’s largest vertical farm, Aerofarms,  inside a    warehouse in   Newark, New Jersey.   urban farming company    opened  in Chicago in late 2015. ” ’   ”It seems like there’’s a new innovation every day in   agriculture,” Dolcini says. ’