BEIRUT, Lebanon  —   After months of fierce bombardment and failed diplomacy, the Syrian government began removing residents from the last   districts in the city of Aleppo on Thursday, a process that solidifies President Bashar  ’s control over the country’s largest city. Cold, hungry and carrying satchels and children, about 1, 000 people, some of them wounded, boarded green buses and ambulances that carried the first batch of evacuees out of the rebel enclave. A second group of more than 1, 000 people departed later, and a third left after nightfall. Mr. Assad hailed the evacuation in a video released by his office, saying the “liberation” of Aleppo would serve as a historical watershed, like the birth of Christ, the revelation of the Quran, the collapse of the Soviet Union and the two world wars. “I want to confirm that what is happening today is history that is being written by every Syrian citizen,” Mr. Assad said, smiling in a dark blue suit. “Its writing did not start today. It started about six years ago when the crisis and the war on Syria began. ” It remained unclear how many people, both civilians and fighters, remained in eastern Aleppo, but aid workers guessed it would take several days to get them out. If successful, the evacuation will return the whole city to Mr. Assad’s control, signaling a major turning point in the nearly   conflict. Since early in the war, Aleppo, once the country’s industrial center, has been split, with the government holding the west and rebels holding neighborhoods in the east. But vast military aid for the Syrian government from Iran, Russia and the Lebanese militant group Hezbollah turned the tide in the government’s favor, allowing it to surround the rebels. The evacuation deal was reached between Russia and Turkey, which backs the rebels, after months of heavy shelling and airstrikes that left entire neighborhoods in ruins and killed hundreds of people. Rebels in east Aleppo had also frequently shelled   areas, killing civilians there, too. Many people on that side of the city considered the rebels dangerous militants and were glad to see them ousted. The United States, which has supported the rebels along with Turkey, Saudi Arabia and other Gulf states, has struggled and failed to reach an accord to end the war, and the United States did not help broker the evacuation agreement. “There is absolutely no justification whatsoever for the indiscriminate and savage brutality against civilians shown by the regime and by its Russian and Iranian allies over the past few weeks, or indeed over the past five years,” Secretary of State John Kerry said. “The Assad regime is actually carrying out nothing short of a massacre. ” The loss of a foothold in Aleppo would be a major blow to the opposition, which would then hold sway in only one of Syria’s provincial capitals, Idlib, where the Syrian branch of Al Qaeda is a major force. The less territory the rebels hold, the harder it is for the United States and its allies to get the Syrian government to negotiate with them, the Obama administration’s goal. Residents reached in eastern Aleppo on Thursday said they felt the gravity of leaving places where they had lived and suffered for so long. Some bid farewell to places and things they would miss, while others pondered why the opposition had failed. Realizing he would be leaving soon, Hisham Skeif said he had visited his family’s home and sat by an old tree, where he thought about Native Americans and Palestinians  —   other peoples forced from their homes. “I never understood such feelings until today,” he said. “This is my  ’s land. It is not only my memories, but theirs as well. ” While he had participated in the uprising against Mr. Assad that started the conflict, he felt that it had gone wrong by resorting to arms. “Today, hours before we leave, I say that our biggest mistake was carrying weapons,” he said. Others assumed that as declared enemies of the Assad government, they would never be allowed to return and left messages for those who would come later. Salem Abualnaser, a dentist, left a handwritten note on a whiteboard near the door of a small community center for children. “Warning! Do not destroy! There are things here that your children may benefit from,” it read. Reached in a Facebook call on Thursday, Mr. Abualnaser said he had put the sign up because he had heard that government troops had looted other neighborhoods after seizing them from the rebels. “The situation here is better today and people are relaxed a little bit because all the shelling and airstrikes that we had yesterday have stopped,” he said. Others appeared to be covering their tracks as they left east Aleppo. Television images of the rebel enclave showed rising columns of smoke, which activists said were because fighters had set fire to their headquarters and ammunition stores. The evacuation’s start was delayed twice, once Wednesday morning when militia fighters unhappy with the deal fired on vehicles trying to bring people out, and on Thursday, when gunfire targeted rescue workers clearing rubble from a road, killing one and wounding three, according to Maan   an antigovernment activist. The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, which opposes the government and tracks the conflict from Britain, said that the presence of 250 foreign fighters among those to be evacuated also complicated the deal because the Syrian government wanted to detain them for interrogation. It remained unclear how that issue was resolved. But evacuation efforts restarted Thursday morning, with apparent modifications to the plan. Syrian state news media reported that buses and ambulances had begun evacuating residents from two Shiite villages in neighboring Idlib Province that have long been surrounded by Sunni rebels. The two villages, Fua and Kfraya, were not originally part of the evacuation deal. The moves to evacuate people from the villages suggested that they had been added to the deal to ensure that people in eastern Aleppo would be allowed to leave. Live images on Syrian state television showed the line of green buses and ambulances emerging from the rebel enclave into a   area, and antigovernment activists filmed their arrival in   territory further west, where many evacuees broke into tears and ate apples and cookies handed to them. Under the agreement, civilians evacuated from eastern Aleppo can stay in   sectors or continue to   areas. Rebels may only go to other   areas. Most were likely to end up in Idlib Province to the west of Aleppo, where a rebel alliance that includes the Syrian affiliate of Al Qaeda dominates. Some aid workers feared that moving the Aleppo residents there would merely lay the groundwork for a future siege. “I don’t know what will happen in Idlib, but if there is no   or political accord then it will become the next Aleppo,” said Staffan de Mistura, the United Nations envoy for Syria. When east Aleppo was besieged by government forces and their allies, the United Nations reported that more than 250, 000 people were trapped there. But on Thursday, Lt. Gen. Viktor Poznikhir of the Russian military’s general staff said that 900 militants had been killed in the recent offensive against the   neighborhoods and that more than 108, 000 civilians had fled the area, including more than 3, 000 rebels. Speaking to journalists in Geneva, Jan Egeland, the United Nations humanitarian adviser for Syria, said that an estimated 50, 000 people had fled eastern Aleppo. The discrepancy in the numbers could not immediately be resolved. The United Nations has not been able to provide protection for those fleeing, he said, because its workers were not given access. “We have not been witnesses to atrocities that we know have been committed by all sides in this horrific war,” Mr. Egeland added. The plight of those trapped in eastern Aleppo as supplies have dwindled and destruction has spread has caused anguish among humanitarian workers. “It took 4, 000 years to build Aleppo, hundreds of generations, yet one generation managed to tear it down in four years,” Mr. Egeland said.