The Department of Justice has filed a lawsuit against a city in Eastern Michigan, saying it discriminated against a Muslim group by rejecting its application to build a mosque there. The government’s lawsuit, filed on Thursday, said the denial of the application from the group, the American Islamic Community Center, was the first time in a decade that the planning commission in Sterling Heights, about 16 miles from downtown Detroit, has denied a land use application for a house of worship. It noted that the city’s decision came after residents spoke in opposition to the mosque in public meetings. It quoted some who said “remember ” and others who claimed Christians would face difficulty in trying to build a church in Iraq. “We are alleging that Sterling Heights discriminated against the American Islamic Community Center on the basis of religion and placed a substantial burden on the community’s ability to exercise its religion by denying approval to build a mosque,” Barbara L. McQuade, the United States attorney for the Eastern District of Michigan, said in a statement published with a copy of the lawsuit. The department, through its civil rights division, based its lawsuit on the Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act, which is meant to prohibit religious discrimination and prevent unjustified burdens on people exercising their religion. Vanita Gupta, head of the civil rights division, said in the announcement of the lawsuit that the Justice Department would continue to “aggressively protect” the rights of communities to live, pray and worship. “We have definitely seen a spike in these cases, in problems when it comes to minority religions,” Azzam Elder, the lead lawyer for the community center, said in a telephone interview on Friday. “It is a sign of the times. ” On Friday, a spokeswoman for Sterling Heights, Bridget Doyle, said in an email that there would be no comment beyond the statement released on Thursday that said the city was “surprised and disappointed” by the lawsuit. “The city welcomes the A. I. C. C. along with any other religious groups to Sterling Heights, and we will continue an open dialog to address areas of disagreement with respect to land use,” the city’s statement said. It said the city had a reputation for tolerance  —   with two mosques Sikh, Buddhist and Hindu temples and Christian churches. The city’s statement said the community center’s application for a new mosque was denied because it was incompatible with adjoining uses and offered insufficient parking and because of concerns over the size and height of the building. The city denied that “emotional feelings tied to religious beliefs either for or against the applicant” played a part. But the Department of Justice lawsuit claimed that the planning commission’s decision was “inconsistent” with others it had made on places of worship, and that the rejection was “based on   bias. ” Last year, the community center, a nonprofit Muslim group in neighboring Madison Heights, had sought permission to develop 4. 35 acres of land in Sterling Heights, because most of its members lived there and because its facility in Madison Heights was too small, the lawsuit said. The proposed building would have been approximately 20, 500 square feet with 130   parking spaces, a dome about 58 feet high and two    spires  —   lower than features on nearby churches. Jaafar Chehab, a community center board member and trustee of the land, worked with city planners to address some of the concerns, including agreeing not to oppose liquor license applications in nearby areas, and agreeing not to have an external call to prayer, the lawsuit said. In August 2015, city planners held a heavily attended public meeting. Fifty people who spoke were opposed to the project, and seven were in favor, the lawsuit said. Many of the public comments were directed at Mr. Chehab’s religion, the lawsuit said, included a plea to “remember ” statements that Christians would not be allowed to build a church in Iraq and statements that property values would drop if the mosque were built. One resident held up a picture of a woman wearing a head covering and said he did not want to “be near people like this,” the lawsuit said. Another said the mosque might be used to store weapons, and another said Homeland Security should investigate the community center because “they’re cutting people’s heads off, they kill our soldiers,” the lawsuit said. The lawsuit noted that the mosque had become an issue in City Council elections. In September 2015, the application was denied, based on the size of the building, parking and lack of “harmony” with the neighborhood, the lawsuit said. The community center has its own lawsuit pending against the city’s decision, Mr. Elder said. “The politicians caved toward the loud voices,” he said. “All this came as a shock. ”