Done in by high rent, Silvano Marchetto closed his   restaurant, Da Silvano in Greenwich Village, on Tuesday night. It was a decision, he said, he had made just two days before. “It went up to $42, 500 a month, a fortune,” he said. “I couldn’t handle it any more. ” When it opened in 1975, Da Silvano was at the forefront of honest Northern Italian cooking, often Tuscan, at a time Italian food in New York City frequently meant spaghetti and meatballs, washed down with a rough Chianti from a   bottle. In her   New York Times review in 1977, Mimi Sheraton praised the chicken liver crostini, panzanella salad, spaghetti puttanesca and osso buco, dishes that remained on Da Silvano’s menu until its final day. The restaurant kept its two stars until 2006, when Frank Bruni took it down to one. “Going to Da Silvano was almost like walking into a trattoria in Florence,” said Mauro Maccioni, an owner of Le Cirque, which his father, Sirio Maccioni, founded in 1974. “He served tripe and things like that you didn’t see everywhere. ” Not long after it opened, Da Silvano began to draw attention from celebrities, attracting art dealers and their clients from the growing gallery scene in nearby SoHo as well as boldface names and movie stars. The restaurant maintained its standing with a   clientele, including recently Madonna, Tom Hanks, Barry Diller and Anna Wintour. Tourists were always there to fill any empty tables. When Pino Luongo, the   chef and owner of Morso on East 59th Street, was searching for a job in an Italian restaurant in 1980, Da Silvano was the only place that interested him. “I looked at menus from the East 50s to downtown, and never went into the restaurants because I didn’t recognize the food until I came to Da Silvano,” he said. He became a manager at Da Silvano, where he stayed for two years before going on to open Il Cantinori. “Everybody is sad it’s been 41 years and 51 days exactly since I opened, but I don’t care,” Mr. Marchetto said in his     English, as identifiable as the   scarf draped around his neck. His daughter, Leyla Marchetto, one of the owners of Navy Beach, a seasonal hot spot in Montauk, N. Y. said, “It’s been hard for him. ” Mr. Marchetto, who turned 70 a month ago, is a native of Trento, north of Venice. He came to New York at 20, as a tourist. Having trained as a chef, he eventually got a job in the kitchen of a Greenwich Village steakhouse that is now defunct, and, after a number of years, he opened Da Silvano at his boss’s suggestion. He was able to expand the restaurant by acquiring adjacent storefronts and using an expansive stretch of sidewalk for tables. A   feud with his former partner, Giovanni Tognozzi, who owns Bar Pitti next door, has been much publicized, as have a few other sensational events involving the restaurant over the years. Mr. Marchetto said he had received five or six offers for restaurant projects, none of which interested him. The worst part of running a restaurant, he said, was not being able to take a break. Now, he said he plans to “go sit in the sun, maybe Florida. ”