New Yorkers flooded the streets of Manhattan on Saturday aiming to send a message to President Trump that his hometown would be a center of resistance during his administration. The mayor’s office estimated that 400, 000 people took part in the march, which was in concert with other Women’s March rallies across the country. With huge crowds along Fifth Avenue near Trump Tower, a large slice of Manhattan came to a standstill for much of the day. Participants booed Mr. Trump and hoisted signs mocking both his hair and his relationship with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia. It was a moment of both catharsis and camaraderie in a city that was, for the most part, shocked and disappointed by Mr. Trump’s ascendance to the presidency. Holding a “Nasty Woman” sign, Grace Huezo, 20, was buoyed by the huge turnout and the joyful mood. “I’m hopeful to see so many people that are not giving up and they’re keeping their spirit,” she said. “We’re all just going to stick together over the next four years. ” Ms. Huezo, a student at Hunter College, said she was marching with her sister to defend women’s rights. She said she was appalled by the 2005 recording of Mr. Trump’s lewd comments about women that emerged during the campaign. “We’re here saying, ‘No, people do not have permission to grab women without our permission,’” she said. The march began with a rally near Trump World Tower on the East Side, where Chirlane McCray, the wife of Mayor Bill de Blasio, led the crowd in urging Mr. Trump not to get rid of the Affordable Care Act. “New York City has always been the center of progressive America, and that will never change,” she said. The actress Whoopi Goldberg suggested it would be the first of many marches while Mr. Trump was in office. Hinting at the debate over diversity leading up to the marches, one speaker said she wanted equal pay, and “not just for white women. ” Throughout the day, marchers clogged city streets and overwhelmed subway stations. Men and women wore pink “pussy hats” and held signs that read, “You lost here, Donald,” and “I’m Still With Her. ” Around 4 p. m. near Trump Tower, a wall of police officers tried to keep people moving as protesters chanted, “Black Lives Matter. ” Alice Bucaille said she wanted to bring her two daughters to the march, but decided against it because of violence on Friday after the inauguration ceremony in Washington. Ms. Bucaille said she would have welcomed women with views that differed from hers on abortion, and added that Democrats could no longer live in a bubble. “We need to open the discussion and understand where people are coming from,” she said. “Being inclusive is part of the conversation. ” Plenty of children attended the march with parents and grandparents. Along the route, Annabel Lui, 6, stood on a bench proudly holding a sign that said: “Little Donald, you’ve been a bad boy. Now go to your room for the next four years. ”   stopped to watch as she chanted, “Trump has to go!”