Were we to review the year in terms of gastronomic controversies, we might begin and end with the debate over chopped cheese. If your life in New York is purposely dull and cloistered, confined to the Caviar   service, Showtime and the obsessive monitoring of Brooklyn real estate listings, then the furor over the sandwich  —   alternately known as chopped or chop cheese  —   may have escaped your notice entirely. If that is the case, you are, in effect, part of the problem, as disconnected as the reporter who ventured uptown and “discovered” the sandwich, a longtime offering at bodegas in the Bronx and Harlem, with the surprise of someone coming upon a new moon near Uranus. The story begins early in the year with a video segment produced by the website Insider, featuring a millennial correspondent who sampled the chopped cheese (a combination of chopped ground beef, American cheese and condiments, piled on a hero) and described it as something most New Yorkers had never heard of, a “steal” at $4. This in turn prompted a very funny and popular video by a young comedian, Jeffrey Almonte, mocking Insider’s   and, by extension, the general dopiness of gentrifiers. What erupted was a conversation about whether the sandwich had been “Columbused”  —   which is to say “found”  —   when it had, in fact, existed all along. There were accompanying questions of exploitation, given that the chopped cheese had then become the subject of more extravagant variations in more rarefied places. Last month, a short documentary, “Hometown Hero: The Legend of New York’s Chopped Cheese,” made its way online, envisioning, in part, further abuses: Would we awaken one day to find chopped cheese on a panini? Peak horror was reached recently, when the Whole Foods on West 59th Street briefly sold a chopped cheese for $8, out of a cart labeled, “1492,” as if to say: “You’re worried about Columbusing? We’ll give you the Niña, the Pinta and the Santa Maria!” Internet rage followed. The cart, in fact, is a permanent fixture in the store, meant as a nod to its Columbus Circle location. On the day I visited, it was serving up nachos, to no obvious complaints of ethnic thievery. It is hard to know when or how much to get exercised over culinary cultural appropriation, when the   of modern American cooking seems dependent on remix and influence. Chopped cheese isn’t a cheeseburger, but it is also not substantially different from a cheeseburger, which is of course a riff on the hamburger, whose own origins in America in the 19th century are still awaiting consensus. Do we want to live in a world where we are waging war against Korean tacos? It is class, rather than identity posturing, that is really at issue. During the past two decades, the increasing physical and psychic distance that has distinguished the relationship between moneyed urbanites and members of the working class has coincided with a tendency among the well positioned to ape the style and tastes of the people they are displacing. It is a warped form of tribute with only  . Bankers and lawyers move into former manufacturing neighborhoods, spend their weekends in Red Wing work boots and before long find themselves in thrall to the glamorized pilsner the meatball the breakfast sandwich of bacon, egg and cheese, which come to clerical assistants and plumbers off a cart on the sidewalk but to the more discriminating via heritage animals and the Berkshires. (Earlier this week, Gustavo Arellano, the editor of OC Weekly, an alternative newspaper in Southern California, was lamenting reports of a hipster bar in Los Angeles selling malt liquor served in brown paper bags, at $15 a bottle.) You know a New York neighborhood has reached the final stage of its “renaissance” when a Doughnut Plant opens. Doughnut Plant stuffs its doughnuts with   pudding and   jams and often organic ingredients, all of which add up to a vague sense of having remade Adam Sandler in the image of Kenneth Branagh doing “Henry V. ” Having begun on the Lower East Side more than 20 years ago, the company now has outposts in Prospect Heights, Brooklyn, and Long Island City, Queens. But really, where does the world of Paula Deen end and Epicureanism begin? On its website, Doughnut Plant boasts something called the Blackout, made from chocolate cake, chocolate pudding, chocolate glaze and a sprinkling of chocolate cake crumbs. It is the thought of just this kind of foodstuff, when ingested by a young child in the Mott Haven section of the Bronx, that causes mothers on the Upper West Side to quake and tremble and despair over food deserts and rising rates of obesity. There are certain New Yorkers, and certain kinds of food people, who appear to see no hypocrisy in telling the poor what they shouldn’t eat as they sidle up to the counter at Shake Shack to order its     Angus beef burgers, and shakes made from milk with no growth hormones. It’s never junk food if the price is high enough.