DAKAR, Senegal  —   Four days into his term, tucked into a sofa 150 miles outside the country he was elected to rule, President Adama Barrow of Gambia pledged on Sunday to improve his country’s economy, free its political prisoners and create a commission to look into the brutal legacy of his predecessor. But first he has to get home. Mr. Barrow, 51, has been stuck in neighboring Senegal for a week, waiting for the incumbent he defeated, Yahya Jammeh, to step down and leave the country. After initially accepting his loss in the December presidential election, Mr. Jammeh reversed himself, called for a new vote and refused to give up power when his term ended on Thursday. Afraid for his safety, Mr. Barrow fled to Senegal and was sworn in during an inauguration at the Gambian Embassy in Dakar. A coalition of other African countries sent troops into Gambia to evict Mr. Jammeh by force if necessary, and on Saturday night, Mr. Jammeh finally let go. He boarded a plane headed for exile, accompanied by the president of Guinea, who had gone to Gambia to persuade him to leave. Mr. Jammeh’s first stop was Conakry, Guinea. But it was not clear where his final new home would be. The departure paved the way for Mr. Barrow to take over, but on Sunday afternoon, he was still at a house he owns in Dakar, trying to sort out the details of his return home. It could take several days yet security advisers were scheduled to go to Banjul, the capital, on Monday to assess the situation and prepare for his safe arrival.   after having awakened late in the morning, the unassuming president sank into a giant couch that seemed to absorb him, and spoke of his hopes for his administration. “Gambia is back again,” said Mr. Barrow, who wore a shiny brown traditional gown and leather sandals. “We have been isolated for so many years, and we want Gambia to be very active again in this world. ” Mr. Jammeh, who took office after a 1994 coup, imprisoned numerous journalists and political opponents during his tenure, some of whom died in jail. His rule was erratic, and made headlines for his claim to have cured AIDS with herbs, a prayer and a banana he also called for beheading gay people. His actions prompted thousands of Gambians to flee the country, and the nation’s weak economy prompted hundreds more to try to make the dangerous trek across the desert and the Mediterranean to look for work in Europe. More recently, an estimated 45, 000 Gambians had rushed across the border to Senegal, fearing violence if Mr. Jammeh were forcibly removed from office, and causing the United Nations to worry about a humanitarian crisis. On Sunday, many of those Gambians began to return home. Officials released a joint declaration by the United Nations, the African Union and the Economic Community of West African States on Sunday that “assures and ensures the dignity, respect, security and rights” of Mr. Jammeh, his family and his loyal supporters, so that “there is no intimidation, harassment     of former regime members and supporters. ” The document, which refers to Mr. Jammeh by his preferred honorifics  —   H. E. (for “his excellency”) Sheikh Professor Alhaji Dr. Yahya A. J. J. Jammeh  —   goes on to say that the organizations that issued the report are committed to preventing the seizure of assets of Mr. Jammeh and his family and loyalists. And it says the organizations will work to ensure that in whichever countries offer “African hospitality” to Mr. Jammeh and his family, they do not “become undue targets of harassment, intimidation and all other pressures and sanctions. ” Mr. Barrow said he had planned to create a truth and reconciliation commission to look into the Jammeh government. He said he would wait for the commission’s recommendations before taking action. “It’s a resolution it’s not an agreement,” Mr. Barrow said of the document. Until last fall, Mr. Barrow ran a real estate agency in Gambia and was a fairly   member of an opposition party. But Mr. Jammeh began to jail the party’s leaders, and Mr. Barrow found himself rising from the vacuum, assuming the party’s candidacy for president and winning a surprise victory over the authoritarian Mr. Jammeh. Mr. Barrow said on Sunday that his chief priority would be to work on improving the economy in Gambia, where there is widespread unemployment. But he offered no specifics, saying instead that he would assemble a team of experts to figure out how to get the economy back on track. He said he had planned to release anyone imprisoned in Gambia for political reasons, a hallmark of Mr. Jammeh’s presidency and one that alienated him from human rights groups and many Western democracies. “Political prisoners will be freed immediately when I get home,” Mr. Barrow said. “All political prisoners. ” While a great many people in Gambia will welcome Mr. Barrow when he finally returns, Mr. Jammeh still has supporters. Many turned out in tears Saturday night to bid him farewell at the Banjul airport, where he arrived in his  . Mr. Barrow said he did not think Mr. Jammeh’s loyalists would present problems for his administration. On Sunday, some Gambians were appalled at the pomp that accompanied Mr. Jammeh on his way out. A military band showed up at the airport to play for him as he walked along a red carpet to a waiting airplane. “That man should have left this country in handcuffs,” said Alpha Gaye, a taxi driver in Serekunda, just west of the capital. “I will be very angry if Yahya Jammeh goes without punishment. He should die in jail. ”