When Yordano Ventura won Game 6 of the 2014 World Series for the Kansas City Royals, he wore the initials of Oscar Taveras on his cap. Taveras, an outfielder for the St. Louis Cardinals, had just been killed in a car accident in the Dominican Republic, the homeland they shared. Early Sunday morning, Ventura was killed in a car accident there at 25. Andy Marte, 33, a former infielder who spent parts of seven seasons with Atlanta, Cleveland and Arizona, was killed in another car crash Sunday in the Dominican Republic. Major League Baseball announced the deaths on its social media accounts. The traffic authorities in the Dominican Republic said that it was not clear whether Ventura had been driving when he died on a highway about 40 miles northwest of the capital, Santo Domingo. Marte died when the   he was driving hit a house about 95 miles north of Santo Domingo, the authorities said. Ventura was a     who reached the majors in September 2013 and seemed destined to stay for many years. He had a record of   with a 3. 89 earned run average, and he was part of the team’s core, with a $23 million contract that could have bound him to Kansas City through 2021. “I love you my brother,” Royals first baseman Eric Hosmer wrote on Instagram, sharing a photograph of himself with Ventura. “I’m in disbelief and don’t know what to say. I love you ACE. ” Only one qualified starting pitcher, the Mets’ Noah Syndergaard, had a harder average fastball last season than Ventura’s Syndergaard’s averaged 97. 9 miles per hour, Ventura’s 96. 1 m. p. h. Ventura made three World Series starts, two in 2014 against the San Francisco Giants, and then a loss to the Mets at Citi Field in 2015. He gained a measure of notoriety last season when he was suspended for eight games for hitting Baltimore’s Manny Machado in the back with a fastball, inciting a brawl. Ventura was   with a 4. 45 E. R. A. in his final season. Marte spent the past two seasons playing professionally in South Korea. Once a promising prospect for the Braves, he was traded to Boston for Edgar Renteria in 2005, and he was then quickly sent to Cleveland in a multiplayer deal that brought Coco Crisp to the Red Sox. Marte played 278 of his 308 career games with the Indians, and batted . 218, with 21 homers and 99 runs batted in, over all. “He was a genuine person who always greeted you with a warm smile,” the Indians wrote on Twitter. Tony Clark, the executive director of the Major League Baseball Players Association, said in a statement: “It’s never easy to lose a member of our fraternity, and there are no words to describe the feeling of losing two young men in the prime of their lives. Our thoughts and prayers go out to their families, friends, teammates and fans throughout the United States and Latin America. ” The Dominican Republic’s president, Danilo Medina, posted on Twitter that the nation “is dressed in mourning with the deaths of Andy Marte and Yordano Ventura, great sportsmen who raised high our national banner. ” Fans began arriving at Kansas City’s Kauffman Stadium shortly after Ventura’s death was announced, leaving flowers, hats and other mementos outside. Flags at the ballpark were lowered to  . A 2015 study by the World Health Organization found that the Dominican Republic had the highest traffic accident death rate in the Americas, 29. 3 per 100, 000 inhabitants. The deaths of Ventura and Marte follow the death of another major leaguer, the Miami Marlins’   pitcher Jose Fernandez, in a boating accident in September.