The producers of “Hamilton,” a show that could well make hundreds of millions of dollars, on Friday bowed to pressure and said they would share some of the musical’s profits with original cast members. The deal, which was announced by a lawyer representing more than two dozen actors and dancers who were part of the show’s development and first productions, is a major victory for the cast and could have ripple effects in the theater industry, where the huge success of “Hamilton,” and the lack of   catalyzed a growing debate about actor compensation. The agreement means that actors will have a piece of “the profit stream from the play,” Ronald H. Shechtman, a leading labor lawyer in the theater industry who represented the “Hamilton” performers, said in a statement. Jeffrey Seller, the lead producer of “Hamilton,” a megahit now generating upward of $500, 000 in profit every week on Broadway, confirmed the agreement. Neither Mr. Seller nor Mr. Shechtman would discuss details, some of which remain to be hammered out, and Mr. Shechtman said that the performers were not ready to comment on the deal. Kate Shindle, the president of Actors’ Equity, the labor union representing theater performers, said that while the broader discussion about how actors are compensated for contributions to developing shows will continue, the “Hamilton” agreement was significant. “This should be a real moment of celebration for any actor who feels powerless,” she said. The agreement is unlikely to make any of the performers rich, but the money could make a significant difference in their lives the base salary for a Broadway performer is about $1, 900 a week (stars often make more) and many actors have significant periods of unemployment between jobs. Payments to actors in other shows with   have varied from a few hundred dollars a year to a few thousand dollars a month. The profits from “Hamilton,” which will only multiply as it spins off tours in other cities and around the world, has prompted an uncomfortable debate within the theater industry about money and credit for performers who help create hit shows. The debate has been taking place in two settings: within the “Hamilton” company and at Actors’ Equity, which has been flooded with expressions of concern from its members. The union has scheduled a special meeting on Monday to hear from actors who have helped develop a number of recent shows. Mary McColl, the executive director of Actors’ Equity, said, “There should be a place for the actors to participate in the success of a project. ” The issue is already having an effect elsewhere in the business. Equity said that some of its members were unhappy, in the wake of “Hamilton,” to see that Disney is developing its coming “Frozen” stage musical in a way that will preclude   by the actors initially involved, even though the process is the same one Disney has used for four previous musicals. And the Public Theater, the Off Broadway nonprofit where “Hamilton” was partly developed, said it had postponed a developmental chapter of a new musical because of an inability to reach an agreement with performers over potential future  . The issue has a long and tortured history in theater, since the days of “A Chorus Line,” when the dancers involved in that show’s creation famously sold the rights to their life stories for $1 each, but about a year later reached an agreement with the   that allowed them some share of the show’s financial success. In the decades since, some shows have granted performers involved in developing them small shares of future profits  —   often 1 percent, divided among the performers. The   example, often cited by actors in the current debate, is “The Book of Mormon. ” The actors involved in the initial workshops for that show, which opened on Broadway in 2011, still get regular checks, in some cases for several thousand dollars a month, to reflect their contributions to its success. Two shows   by Mr. Seller, “Rent” and “Avenue Q,” agreed to share a small part of their profits with performers involved in the development process. But more recently, producers have largely opted to pay actors who help develop shows more up front, in exchange for not granting them a share of profits if  —   as happens relatively rarely  —   the show becomes profitable. For years, many shows have been developed using an Equity workshop contract, under which actors are paid a flat rate of $631 for every   workweek. The actors also get benefits, are entitled to a right of first refusal to their role  —   and to split 1 percent of any future royalty pool for 18 years. But, in more recent years, producers have tended to favor an alternative Equity contract, the developmental lab, under which actors are paid $1, 000 a week but have no right of refusal and no promise of royalty participation. In the early stages of “Hamilton,” which was written by and stars   Miranda, Equity sought a workshop contract that would allow actors a share of future royalties, but parties could not reach an agreement. The actors instead signed modified lab contracts that gave them a right of first refusal to their roles, but not royalty participation. They began asking the producers to reconsider, and grant them a share of the profits, in August, as the show was opening on Broadway.