Maggie Haberman, a New York Times political correspondent, has devoted her journalistic career to two irresistible subjects: politics and New York City. At age 7, her first byline appeared in The Daily News it has now been published in all three New York dailies. A native of the Upper West Side who lives in the Crown Heights section of Brooklyn, she has covered 10 election cycles, from mayoral contests to presidential campaigns, including the 2016 race, which turns to New York on Tuesday for its primary. Join us for live primary updates. There have been pickles and pizzas, jeering crowds and pushy   and dashes out to Coney Island for hot dogs alongside scruffy, bearded rock stars. Campaigns in New York feel at times like a movable feast, with candidates gorging on local specialties as they move along city sidewalks, shaking hands and trying to avoid dripping grease on their shirts. And this presidential race, which once seemed so distant, has taken on a distinctly New York character in the prelude to Tuesday’s primary, and not just in its greasy diet. The campaign has captivated   New Yorkers, drawing tens of thousands out of their homes from the South Bronx to Staten Island, to take in what this city relishes: a big show. “Do women like Trump?” Donald J. Trump asked two female fans wearing “Make America Great Again” ball caps on Sunday, as he posed for a picture with them on Staten Island. Mr. Trump, who is heavily favored here in Tuesday’s primary, was holding one of his few official campaign events in the city. And the two Trump fans, who said they could not reveal their names because it would imperil their jobs, were ready for the occasion. Mr. Trump smiled as he stood for the snapshot with them, quietly murmuring that the giddy women and another man who pushed himself into the photograph needed to pipe down a bit. No matter, they were very happy to have met the leading Republican candidate. “He let us know that he loves us, too,” one of the women gushed. Mr. Trump was greeted like a hometown hero on Staten Island. Outside the Hilton Garden Inn, where he was to give a speech, the line to get in snaked for over 50 yards in the parking lot. About 1, 000 people made it inside. Mr. Trump seemed thrilled to be in the borough, if a little fuzzy on its charms. Asked by a reporter to identify his favorite local pizza place, he responded that there are “a lot” of them. He had worked on Staten Island as a youngster for four summers, he told the assembled press corps  —   although, ever the salesman, he increased it to “probably five” summers by the time he spoke to the Staten Island crowd in the next room. His lowly job? Collecting coins from laundry machines at one of his father’s buildings. Watching Mr. Trump take the stage in that ballroom, with people standing on chairs to hear him, was a reminder of why he is doing so well in the Republican primary. The borough is an enclave of   voters, police officers and firefighters. And, setting aside his gilded towers and   airplane   Mr. Trump talks and sounds more like his   fans than the city’s last Republican mayor, Michael R. Bloomberg. I once watched Mr. Bloomberg draw cringes from a Staten Island crowd when he joked that he was the only politician present not to have a vowel at the end of his name. The battle for Brooklyn between Hillary Clinton and Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont is intense, and Mrs. Clinton is counting on her deep support in the borough’s   neighborhoods to offset Mr. Sanders’s popularity among white liberals. At a block party in the   section on Sunday, she was praised by Representative James E. Clyburn, a   leader who traveled from his home state, South Carolina, for the occasion. There has not been an election in his lifetime, Mr. Clyburn told the crowd of about 200 people waiting in the hot sun, “that’s going to be more consequential than this one. ” Finally, Mrs. Clinton arrived and climbed the steps up to the bed of a red pickup truck that was being used as a stage. “Hello Brooklyn in the house, and on the street!” Mrs. Clinton called out to the crowd. The former secretary of state is comfortably ahead in the polls here, and she seems to be enjoying hopscotching around the state she represented for eight years in the Senate. But for all the warmhearted reminiscences, Mrs. Clinton has something to fear from Mr. Sanders on Tuesday. Around the time she visited   thousands gathered for a rally for Mr. Sanders in Prospect Park, the pristine patch of green wedged between   Crown Heights and upscale Park Slope. The actor Danny DeVito led the cheerful crowd in chants of “Bernie! Bernie!” and someone handed out copies of a fake newspaper with a banner headline reading “A Vote for Hillary Clinton Is a Vote for Donald Trump. ” The Sanders campaign said the crowd reached 28, 300, a record for its rallies. If you live here and have yet to see a candidate, you still have time. While the Republicans hold events on Monday in Maryland, Western New York and upstate (Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio will visit Schenectady, the city most likely to be misspelled by reporters) the Democrats are around. Mr. Sanders will hold a rally at Hunters Point South Park in Queens on Monday evening, for which doors open at 5 p. m. And Mrs. Clinton will address one of her core constituencies  —   women  —   at the New York Hilton Midtown. Doors open at noon.