PORTOVIEJO, Ecuador  —   The rumbling had ended and the rubble had settled, and Manuel Zambrano, 21, took stock of his situation: Somehow, he was alive. Moments earlier, he had been at his job in a pharmacy on the ground floor of a   building. Suddenly, the building began to shake and finally collapsed around him. He found himself trapped in a pocket within the debris. It was dark. He heard sirens, shouts, crying. “I thought it was the end,” he recalled, standing near a mound of concrete and plaster that had once been the building. “But I remembered the 33 trapped miners in the mine in Chile, and thought that if they could survive so many days, I could do it, too. ” At least 410 people were reported killed and more than 2, 000 were injured in the 7.  earthquake that struck Ecuador this weekend, the biggest to hit the country in decades, leaving a stretch of ruin through provinces bordering the Pacific Coast. The tremors flattened buildings, fractured highways and knocked out electricity to much of the region. On Monday, residents were still digging through the rubble for survivors and victims, the government was scrambling to find shelter for thousands of people left homeless and rescue crews from around the world had begun arriving in this Andean nation to help. This city of nearly 300, 000, the provincial capital of Manabí Province, was hit particularly hard, with officials reporting more than 100 deaths and at least 370 buildings destroyed. Survivors described how the earthquake, from one moment to the next, turned a normal, placid Saturday night into a disaster zone. Mr. Zambrano said that when the earthquake began, he and a friend, Diana Suárez, pressed themselves against a pillar for safety. He described it as “a scene that I could only imagine but never ever saw. ” But two hours after the collapse, they heard knocks on the walls and people shouting. “A person I now consider my hero was searching for people to help and he found us,” Mr. Zambrano recalled. “He opened a hole and went to find help to get us out. ” Mr. Zambrano managed to escape with only scrapes on his arms, face and legs. “I am 21 years old, but beginning today I’m counting from 1 because I was reborn,” he said, tears in his eyes. “Believe me, I was reborn. ” Not everyone in the building was so fortunate. Four other occupants died in the collapse, including another pharmacy employee, Vicky Chávez, 31. Her father, Carlos Chávez, and a group of neighbors were still removing the rubble, piece by piece, on Monday morning to free her body. By early afternoon, they had taken her corpse away. The other three victims were a couple and their young son who had stopped by the pharmacy to buy some medicine, witnesses said. Rescuers who dug out their bodies from under the debris found the child and mother still holding each other. The office of President Rafael Correa reported that rescue crews were flying in from around Latin America as well as from Europe. Hundreds of aid workers from abroad were already in the disaster zone by Monday morning, with the largest contingents so far including 120 from Mexico, 80 from Spain and 49 from Chile, officials said. In some of the   areas, like sections of Portoviejo, the Ecuadorean military set up cordons to restrict traffic and to allow rescue personnel to work more easily. The authorities were also concerned about further collapses in the event of aftershocks. Indeed, at 1:30 p. m. local time Monday, a 4.  tremor registered here, sowing panic, including among the rescue workers, who feared that the vibrations might topple structures that had already been compromised by Saturday’s earthquake. On Monday evening, a Colombian rescue team pulled a man from the wreckage of the Hotel El Gato here. The man, Pablo Cordoba, 38, the administrator of the hotel, told the rescuers that there may be another person alive in the wreckage. Mr. Cordoba said that for more than half a day after the earthquake, he carried on a conversation with another person who was trapped elsewhere in the wreckage the two could hear but not see each other. The other victim had gone silent around noon on Monday, Mr. Cordoba said. The Colombian rescue team  —   using tools, hands and an excavator, and working in near total darkness  —   started pushing deeper into the debris hoping to find another survivor. Fabiola Carreño, 35, her clothes covered in dust and her face wrought with anxiety, spent Monday searching likely locations for her cousin Jenny Carreño, 24, and for Jenny’s    daughter, Kiara Villafuerte. At one point on Monday afternoon, Ms. Carreño was unsuccessfully trying to convince soldiers at a blockade to let her pass so that she could search for her relatives in the wreckage of a collapsed building. She held a photo of her cousin in her hand. “We have to look for them,” she insisted. “We have to identify them, but they aren’t letting us. ” The soldiers were unmoved. “We know that we aren’t going to find them alive,” she said of her relatives. “But we want to bury their bodies. ” Meanwhile, the Ecuadorean military began distributing food rations around the affected region of the country, including water and cooking oil. Fausto Ortega, 58, rode for more than an hour on his bicycle around Portoviejo and into the city’s suburbs looking for some bread for his family’s breakfast on Monday. “The situation is very anxious because we have to look for ways to survive during these next few days,” he said. “My wife is scared to enter the house and prefers to sleep in the street because the house can fall. ” “We are poor and need help, but nobody has come to bring us even a glass of water or a grain of rice,” he continued. “We’ve been told to go to the shelter but we’re not going to leave the little that we have unguarded. ” The Spanish Red Cross, which is helping its counterpart in Ecuador, estimated that between 3, 000 and 5, 000 people were left homeless by the earthquake and would need temporary shelter, the group said in a statement. The United Nations refugee agency announced Monday that it was preparing an airlift to help those displaced by the earthquake. The first supply plane was being loaded in Copenhagen, the agency’s global logistics hub, with 900 tents, 15, 000 sleeping mats, kitchen sets and, mindful of the Zika virus threat, 18, 000   mosquito nets. “The aim is to rapidly provide essential shelter and other aid material over the next days for some 40, 000 people  —   refugees, asylum seekers and locals alike  —   in   communities,” the agency said in a statement, adding that it had already sent emergency supplies by truck from its Ecuadorean warehouses to the worst affected areas. Ecuador has the largest refugee population of any country in Latin America, the agency said, having welcomed over 200, 000 Colombian migrants and others, many of whom live where the earthquake hit hardest. For one group of people living in Manabí Province, however, the earthquake turned out to be a fortuitous event. Amid the tremors on Saturday, a wall at the El Rodeo state prison fell down, giving prisoners an escape route. According to local news reports, about 180 inmates fled through the hole and into the night, though by Monday about 30 had been recaptured.