OAKLAND, Calif.  —   Before excuses are made for LeBron James, before the bulk of the blame for consecutive horror shows at Oracle Arena is heaped on a supporting cast of Cleveland Cavaliers that has turned to dust when removed from a comfy Eastern Conference refuge, it must be reiterated that this was the team the King himself courted. This was the crew James left Miami for, the one he reconfigured with   leverage upon returning home and then stood by approvingly when a coach with an impeccable (albeit limited) N. B. A. record was dismissed for a replacement with no   record at all. That is not to say that Tyronn Lue, who slid over into David Blatt’s   seat midseason, is the primary reason  —   if a reason at all  —   that the Cavaliers are down, two games to none, against the Golden State Warriors in the N. B. A. finals and, thus far, are embarrassing themselves. Losing in the finals to a Golden State team that won a record 73   games, if that is the inevitable result, would be no disgrace. But if the series continues this way, and so far it has not been remotely competitive, the epitaph for the Cavaliers’ season should be: This is the team James wanted, and assembled. After waiting outside the interview room for Lue to finish with reporters on Sunday night, James sat down, removed his sunglasses, picked up the microphone as if he were hosting a charity event and took responsibility for Game 2’s   obliteration of his team on top of the      beating it took in Game 1. He called himself out for carelessness with the ball, for committing seven of his team’s 17 turnovers in Game 2, for not making life easier for his overwhelmed teammates. “I’m not disappointed in our guys or frustrated,” he said. “I’m one of the guys who kind of always wants to shoulder the blame and take the blame when we don’t play as well as we should. It’s just who I am, and I’ve got to be better. ” Sloppy as he was, James was still the best performing Cavalier, with Richard Jefferson, a    role player, as the  . Against the Warriors, that was a formula for the disaster Game 2 became in the third quarter, with the Cavaliers sending most of the East Coast to bed early with an unconditional, emotionless surrender. After Game 1, Lue said it was mandatory that the Cavaliers pick up the pace on offense. After Game 2, James cited the turnovers and the Cavaliers’ inability to get back and set up their defense. This sounded good, but, well, whatever. The Warriors scored only 14   points to the Cavaliers’ 11, and who cannot see that the Cavaliers, on defense, have no clue how to deal with the Warriors in their   sets? The Warriors had 55 assists in the two games here. The Cavaliers had 32. This disparity speaks to an athletic Golden State defense of interchangeable parts but also to Cleveland’s lack of the same and its poor defensive habits. When the ball and bodies start moving, the Cavaliers look like   children scrambling to find a seat in a game of musical chairs. Klay Thompson takes two dribbles toward the lane, kicks it out to a scorching Draymond Green, and the Cavaliers’ rotation is too slow, or nonexistent. “He drove and kicked, and their defense was collapsing,” said Green, who torched the Cavaliers for 28 points, with five  . Collapsing was the right characterization, literally and figuratively. Forget Stephen Curry. Green and Andre Iguodala, who both play at forward, look like   point guards, shredding Cleveland’s defense with pinpoint passing for uncontested shots at the rim. On the Warriors’ last possession of the third quarter, the ball whipped around the perimeter, touching the hands of all five players before Thompson nailed a 3. The Cavaliers should have sued for whiplash. “These guys put you in so many mental positions where you have to figure it out, and they make you pay for it when you don’t,” James said. He has always been a willing and able defender, but what can we say about Kyrie Irving, who habitually loses his man, and J. R. Smith, who loses his focus and occasionally his mind? Irving was supposed to carry an offensive load in this series, ease the burden on James. He has taken 36 shots and made 12. Kevin Love was forced out of the game with a possible concussion after taking an inadvertent elbow to the head from Harrison Barnes. There was more to the story. Love had his back to Barnes, bracing to rebound a   attempt by Thompson. He was also   allowing Barnes to leap over him, another illustration of how difficult it has been for the Cavaliers to hide Love’s lack of athleticism. Love is just one example  —   although the most egregious  —   of what can happen when a player, even the very best player, enjoys the kind of executive leverage James has had since rejoining the Cavaliers in the summer of 2014. The denials from his camp and the Cleveland front office have naturally been vehement. They say James did not insist on trading Andrew Wiggins, the No. 1 pick of that year’s draft, to Minnesota for the overrated Love, a deal that deprived the Cavaliers of a superior young athlete James might have mentored. Nor, they contend, did James badger the Cavaliers’ general manager, David Griffin, into trading for the compulsively erratic Smith  —   who scored a combined 8 points in the two games here  —   or point a thumb down on the status of Blatt after publicly emasculating him during the 2015 playoffs. But agents who have had business with the Cavaliers speak of Griffin’s telling them he would get back to them after checking matters with James. League people remind you that Michael Jordan never had such power in Chicago and, based on the personnel decisions he opposed, probably would not have won six titles if he did have it. James has been and remains a superb player spokesman for the league in ways that Jordan never was. On Saturday, speaking of Muhammad Ali, he said, among other things gracious and smart, “I would never compare myself to Muhammad Ali because I never had to go through what those guys had to go through back in those times. ” He can and has affected his community in ways that his predecessors could not, thanks to staggering wealth and corporate support. But the one thing he  —   or any player  —   should never be is in charge of a franchise. He was not in Miami, where Pat Riley ruled, and James just happened to win two rings. Let’s remember that the Warriors looked ragged and lost in recent consecutive blowouts in Oklahoma City. But based on what we saw here, the Cavaliers had better win both games in Cleveland, or summer vacation will begin by early next week. And that is when we will learn how James really feels about the team he chose, the players he pushed for. Will he accept the blame then, or put the cool sunglasses back on and turn an executive thumb down?