Here are the top 10 comments of the week on our digital platforms, as selected by our readers and the journalists who moderate nearly every comment. 1. I actually found myself starting to cry just now as I saw Ms. Clinton’s crowd waiting to hear her speak. This is such an important, historic moment. I am so emotional and excited to sit here with my two little girls and take it all in. My    will grow up thinking it normal that a woman can be president. She will know her teachers truly mean it could be her one day. This is an incredible moment. Sanders supporters, please honor that. This matters.  —   Dana in Santa Monica, Calif. reacting to an article about Hillary Clinton claiming the Democratic presidential nomination after primary victories on Tuesday.  This comment received more than 3, 250 reader recommendations and more than 60 reader responses. 2. Half the Democratic party gave Bernie a mandate not only to take the fight to the convention, but well beyond. The center right side of the party had better get used to the new balance of power and be ready to share.   or, worse, attempting to quash the political revolution will lead to an irrevocable split.  —   Rima Regas in California, reacting to a Campaign Stops article about the future of Senator Bernie Sanders’s campaign.  This comment received more than 250 reader recommendations.  3. I tend to judge based on my personal observations and tend to shun the magic of statistics. Having said that, I see far more evidence of Trump support here in the “liberal” and “educated” Northeast than perhaps for any other candidate in my lifetime. And I tend to think the “white working class” story line is more media mythology. Trump has tapped into a vein of anger. He expresses himself much like our grandfathers did, before the   imposed by political correctness took over. The media does not reflect America.  —   Lonely Republican in New York, reacting to an article about there being more white, older,   voters than 2012 exit polls suggested, which could mean a boost for Mr. Trump. 4. Better get that wall built. It’s time to start keeping these educated   individuals out of the U. S.  —   Jeff Foster on The Times’s Facebook page, responding to an article about two high school valedictorians in Texas who revealed that they were undocumented immigrants.  This comment received over 4, 700 likes.  5. Threats of violence toward a judge isn’t going to fix rape culture. We as a society and particularly us men need to have constructive conversation around resolving this.  —   Kevin Jack McDonagh on The Times’s Facebook page, responding to an article about the Stanford rape case. The judge has been criticized for sentencing a Stanford student, Brock Turner, to only six months for sexual assault.  6. Women can prepare themselves for reality by reading her statement  —   yes, agreed  —   but it is young men who need to read her statement and then no longer pretend that they are going to be getting “20 minutes of action” when they force themselves on a woman without consent. Or worse, as in this case, without the woman being conscious. Let this woman’s brave statement peel the blinders off young men who rationalize this behavior and who have been steeped in a culture that allows these behaviors to seem normal and then go unpunished (if one is white and privileged).  —   Rachael in New York, referring to the statement made by the victim in the Stanford case. 7. I am disturbed by the willingness of so many people to demonize a young man in the court of public opinion. A man who was quite drunk and with impaired judgment. People do many stupid things when they are drunk, sometimes with serious consequences. If Brock Turner had been driving the victim in a car, and gotten into an accident resulting in the victim breaking several bones and bleeding profusely, nobody would consider calling him a violent person, even if the victim had been too drunk to stay out of the car. The victim has chosen to remain anonymous, presumably because she doesn’t want strangers who don’t know her passing judgment on her. I completely understand a father’s desire to speak kindly of his son.  —   DebbieR in Brookline, Mass, reacting to an article about a statement issued by Mr. Turner’s father. 8. Over the last 22 years that my mother has struggled with Parkinson’s disease, watching Muhammad Ali continue to have an impact on the world has been a source of comfort and strength to my family. He was a fighter and an inspiration in many ways. RIP, Muhammad Ali.  —   Suzanne Summers LaPierre on The Times’s Facebook page, reacting to the obituary for Mr. Ali, who died on June 3. 9. He made me believe that as a black person in America, anything was possible. He showed perseverance and fought every opponent with respect, even the ones who would disrespect him. He truly was the greatest.  —   Amina Acelam in Jefferson City, Mo. responding to a callout to readers on Mr. Ali’s obituary that asked, “What did Muhammad Ali mean to you?” 10. What utter nonsense. The period is not dying. What’s actually happening is, a new form of discourse has sprung up in online spaces that has its own set of rules, conventions and implications. This happens all the time, without any severe damage or radical reorganizing of formal written English. It was certainly bound to happen when a radically new medium of communication pervaded the globe. This isn’t a story about punctuation dying it’s a story about a new vernacular being born.  —   Rabid Fangirl in Washington, reacting to an article about a linguistics professor who contends that texting is killing off the period