WASHINGTON  —   Four hours behind schedule and 300 miles from their destination in Bahrain, the crews of two Navy patrol boats figured they had to make up time somehow. Immediately after leaving port in Kuwait, they veered off their planned route through the Persian Gulf, and their troubles began. First they accidentally sailed through Saudi Arabia’s territorial waters. Then one of the boats broke down while passing less than two miles from an   island. When Iranian military boats swarmed the American vessels, they tried to get away. But the Iranians blocked their path and took the crews captive. Navy officials on Thursday gave that account of the encounter in January that resulted in the detention of 10 American naval personnel for about 15 hours by the Iran’s Revolutionary Guards. In a stinging report, the officials described numerous mistakes in the way the mission was planned and executed, and they laid out the reasons some sailors were responsible, both on the boats and up the chain of command. Nine officers and enlisted sailors  —   including a captain and the commanding officer of the boats  —   face discipline, with some being relieved of command because of the episode, which embarrassed the service and occurred just hours before President Obama gave his last State of Union address. “Our actions on that day in January and this incident did not live up to our expectations of our Navy,”  Adm. John M. Richardson, the chief of Naval operations, said Thursday. He added: “Big incidents like this are always the result of the accumulation of a number of small problems. And so it’s just the nature of these things.” At the time of the encounter, Republicans assailed the Obama administration for tolerating the way the sailors were treated by their Iranian captors, who blindfolded them and held them at gunpoint. But senior administration officials  —   including Secretary of State John Kerry, who corresponded with his Iranian counterpart during the episode  —   thanked the Iranians for quickly resolving it. Administration officials said that was a positive outgrowth of the diplomatic channels between the United States and Iran opened by the nuclear deal struck last year. The report issued Thursday was much more critical of the Iranians and painted a starker picture of what occurred after one of the boats  —   known as riverine command boats  —   began having engine problems. As it was being repaired, two Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps navy boats approached the American boats at high speeds, the report said. Shortly thereafter, two more Iranian boats arrived at the scene. “Now overmatched, the riverine command boat crews submitted to the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps navy’s direction,” the report said. The Iranians “boarded, searched and seized the riverine command boats, and then searched, blindfolded and bound the crew. They struck the U. S. flag, replacing it with their own. Two sailors were forced at gunpoint to drive the riverine command boats to Farsi Island. ” On the island, the crews were put in a room and interrogated as a group. Then several of them were questioned individually, and at least some of those interviews were taped. The following morning, the crews were given food and filmed by an Iranian television crew. The crew’s captain was given a script to read off to the camera, apologizing for the episode. He refused but was told that if he did not read it, they were not going to be released. He read the statement, and this was shown on Iranian television. The crews were then blindfolded, taken back to their boats and given permission to leave. They met up with an American Navy ship and were taken off the boats and flown to an American base in Qatar, where the military interviewed the sailors. The report acknowledged that the American boats were in Iranian waters, but said Iran had violated international law by preventing them from leaving. “These two boats and their crew members had every right to be where they were on that day,” Admiral Richardson said at a news conference at the Pentagon. Although the Iranians were within their rights to investigate why the boats were near the island, Navy officials said, they violated international law by holding the sailors at gunpoint, videotaping interviews with them and damaging equipment on their boats. In a speech a day after the episode, Mr. Kerry said that “all indications suggest or tell us that our sailors were well taken care of, provided with blankets and food, and assisted with their return to the fleet earlier today. ” He said “this kind of issue was able to be peacefully resolved and efficiently resolved, and that is a testament to the critical role that diplomacy plays in keeping our country safe, secure and strong. ” But in March, Defense Secretary Ashton B. Carter told the Senate Armed Services Committee that Iran may have violated international law when it seized the sailors, saying “Iran’s actions were outrageous, unprofessional and inconsistent with international law. ” The report released Thursday was far more explicit.