CHARLOTTE, N. C.  —   As Hillary Clinton braced for political fallout from her use of a private email server, President Obama delivered a stemwinder on her behalf on Tuesday, praising her “steady judgment” as his secretary of state and criticizing Donald J. Trump for his own lack of transparency. Sleeves rolled up and declaring himself “fired up” on her behalf, Mr. Obama heaped admiration on Mrs. Clinton and assailed Mr. Trump, the presumptive Republican nominee, saying American voters face a critical choice between “some imaginary past, or whether we are going to reach for the future. ” “I can tell you this, Hillary Clinton has been tested,” Mr. Obama said as he interrupted repeatedly by the cheering crowd. “There has never been any man or woman more qualified for this office,” the president boomed. But the jubilant rally  —   Mr. Obama’s first campaign appearance with Mrs. Clinton  —   unfolded at an awkward moment, just hours after the F. B. I. director, James B. Comey, accused Mrs. Clinton of being “extremely careless” in her email use as he announced the end of an investigation that has engulfed her candidacy and put the Obama administration on the defensive. The dueling political events on Tuesday were as discordant as they were separate: The president and his   secretary of state sidestepped the email issue at their rally, where Mr. Obama clasped hands with his onetime rival and predicted victory in the fall, making no mention of Mr. Comey’s dramatic announcement in Washington faulting Mrs. Clinton even as he recommended against criminal charges. Without mentioning the email controversy, Mr. Obama pointed to the political attacks that have chipped away at Mrs. Clinton’s trust among voters. “Can I be blunt?” he said. “Hillary’s got her share of critics. ” But, he added, “That’s what happens when you dedicate yourself to public service over a lifetime. ” Mr. Obama delicately touched on Mrs. Clinton’s perceived weaknesses as a candidate even as he marveled at her tenacity in the nominating fight they waged against each other eight years ago. In an election year in which outsider candidates have railed against the establishment, Mr. Obama portrayed Mrs. Clinton’s   experience as a plus. “Sometimes we take somebody who has been in the trenches and fought the good fight and been so steady for granted,” he said, recognizing that voters’ yearning for the next new thing had helped his own 2008 campaign. “We don’t do that, by the way, for airline pilots. ” At a time when her State Department tenure is being picked apart by political critics, he defended her turn as the nation’s top diplomat, noting how her popularity faded only once she returned to the political spotlight. “It’s funny how the filter changes a little bit,” he said. “The filter is a powerful thing. ” Mrs. Clinton, perched on a stool behind the president, grinned and gently nodded. The   rally in North Carolina was rescheduled after a previous campaign event in Wisconsin was hastily canceled after the Orlando shootings. But in some ways, the moment had been years in the making. Eight years ago, after a brutal primary fight, Mrs. Clinton appeared arm in arm with Mr. Obama for the first time in Unity, N. H. where she declared, “Unity is not only a beautiful place, it’s a wonderful feeling, isn’t it?” Mr. Obama referred to that event at Tuesday’s rally in North Carolina, a rally that served as a kind of bookend to two remarkable careers that at times seemed destined to clash. “We went to Unity, N. H. just in case people missed the point,” Mr. Obama said. “I saw the grace and the energy with which she threw herself into my campaign. ” Mrs. Clinton spoke before the president, an unusual departure from how she appears at events with   surrogates, and at times it felt like she was campaigning not for herself, but for Mr. Obama’s legacy, praising his “heart, depth and humility. ” She repeatedly referred to their former rivalry, even praising Mr. Obama’s political deftness at defeating her. “He knows a thing or two about winning elections, take it from me,” she said. The F. B. I. ’s decision not to recommend criminal charges came days after an unplanned, brief meeting between former President Bill Clinton and Attorney General Loretta Lynch at an airport in Phoenix. To avoid any appearance of political interference, Ms. Lynch said Friday that she would accept the recommendations of career prosecutors and the F. B. I. director on whether to bring charges against Mrs. Clinton. On Saturday, Mrs. Clinton and her lawyers met with officials from the F. B. I. and the Justice Department to answer nearly four hours of questioning related to her email server. Aides to both Democrats said Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton did not discuss the F. B. I. investigation on the flight to Charlotte. A spokesman for Mrs. Clinton, Nick Merrill, added that Mr. Obama looked at photos of Mrs. Clinton’s grandchildren aboard Air Force One. Serving as Mr. Obama’s secretary of state, Mrs. Clinton engendered good will with the White House, and the experience of accepting Mr. Obama’s offer to run the State Department became one of the most popular stories she relayed on the campaign trail, particularly when wooing black voters. Mrs. Clinton also fired away at Mr. Trump, saying that Mr. Obama was “someone who has never forgotten where he came from  —   and Donald, if you’re out there tweeting, it’s Hawaii,” a reference to Mr. Trump’s calls in 2011 for the president to produce his birth certificate. For several attendees, many of whom waited for hours in sweltering conditions to get into the rally, the chief draw was the chance to glimpse Mr. Obama as he sets off on something of a farewell tour. The crowd was heavily   flashing clothing and trinkets dedicated to the sitting president. Vendors sold tote bags and   emblazoned with images of Mr. Obama’s teenage daughters, and   promising to continue Mr. Obama’s historic 2008 victory by electing the first female president. “It was on my bucket list,” Ivy Dunn, 69, said of seeing him. Asked if she thought Mrs. Clinton could be as effective in office, Ms. Dunn paused. “I’m not going to say yes,” she said, “but she’ll be good. ” Mrs. Clinton will need to nurture Mr. Obama and his supporters, particularly after she strayed to the left of his policies during her nominating fight on issues like the Trans Pacific Partnership trade deal and the Keystone XL Pipeline. A majority  —   51 percent  —   of Americans approve of the president, according to a recent Gallup poll. As Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton touched down at the Charlotte airport, and strode off Air Force One together in a sign of solidarity, a reporter asked John D. Podesta, Mrs. Clinton’s campaign chairman and a former White House chief of staff to Mr. Obama, whether the F. B. I. announcement overshadowed the rally. He replied with a single word: “Hardly. ”