DHAKA, Bangladesh  —   A bombing at Bangladesh’s largest gathering for the Eid   holiday killed two police officers and a civilian on Thursday, police officials said, a day after the Islamic State warned that more attacks would follow the militants’ bloody siege in the capital last week. The attack on Thursday occurred at Sholakia Eidgah, a prayer ground in the Kishoreganj district, about 60 miles northeast of Dhaka, the capital. More than 100, 000 people were estimated to have gathered there for Eid   the holiday that concludes the Muslim holy month of Ramadan. Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina issued a statement deploring the attack and the killers who had carried it out. “What kind of Islamic virtues do they hold as they go to kill people instead of offering their prayers at prayers time, carry out a suicidal bomb attack,” she said. In the aftermath of a bloody weekend attack carried out by young men, several from prosperous families, the prime minister renewed official entreaties to parents and school administrators to inform the authorities about unexplained and prolonged absences by young men. “I urge the guardians to take steps to bring back their missing sons home,” she said. “We will give them all cooperation to find their missing boys and for their treatment, if necessary. ” More details emerged about the attack on the religious gathering on Thursday. About half an hour before morning prayers were to begin, a group of men approached a police checkpoint at a high school near the prayer ground and set off a bomb, said Tofazzal Hossain, an assistant superintendent of the Kishoreganj police. “They attacked the police out of nowhere,” said Mr. Hossain, who added that some of the attackers had been carrying guns and bladed weapons. Six other officers were seriously wounded, said a police inspector, Mueid Chowdhury, but they were expected to survive. Several civilians were also hurt. The police killed one of the attackers and arrested two others, Mr. Hossain said. A search was underway for the other assailants. Security had been tightened for Eid celebrations around Bangladesh after the militant assault Friday night on an upscale restaurant in Dhaka’s diplomatic district, in which at least 20 hostages were killed. On Wednesday, the Islamic State, which claimed responsibility for the restaurant siege, released a video threatening more such attacks in Bangladesh. There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the attack on Thursday. But the imam of the Sholakia Eidgah mosque, Maulana Fariduddin Masud, had taken a public stance against violence committed in the name of Islam. In January, he led more than 100, 000 Islamic clerics in signing a fatwa, or religious ruling, that condemned militancy.