Nobody knows where the mocking animals will emerge next. Then, when they do appear, they are ever elusive. And we are rarely fast enough or strong enough to wallop them all. Given how neatly these facts mirror our flailing efforts to manage our personal affairs, it makes perfect sense that so many people in recent weeks have embraced    as the metaphor for our complicated lives. The Federal Reserve is playing    while trying to manage interest rates, one Fed watcher told The Wall Street Journal. The stock market itself is like    a trader said. So is fighting   diseases, per The New York Post. Networking on LinkedIn, too, as MarketWatch noted. So this week, as stock markets   in the wake of Britain’s unexpected vote to exit the European Union and families prepared to hit the midway for the long weekend, I put some questions to former carnies turned financial advisers and    winners on Coney Island in Brooklyn. What do the strong feelings of unpredictability, elusiveness and urgency inspired by    teach us about how  —   and how not  —   to run our financial lives? The game is simple. Five moles pop up from a board at random, and your job is to hit them with a mallet before they duck out of reach. If you are playing against other people, as you might at a carnival, the first person to hit a certain number of moles wins. If you are alone, at an arcade, the moles come faster and faster until you miss too many or time expires, depending on the version of the game. Something about the whacking is both primal and universal. So much so that Bob’s Space Racers, the Daytona Beach, Fla. company that owns the license for the carnival and arcade versions of the game, figures that people spend at least $100 million on it each year across about 80 countries. The New York Times’s legendary On Language columnist, William Safire, wrote about   . President Obama uses the phrase. And the arcade restaurant chain Dave  Buster’s has barred Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. from its locations for destroying a rigged    game, or at least that is what The Onion reported. But the game is not rigged. It merely plays upon some of our worst tendencies. Some old Bob’s Space Racers promotional material acknowledged it outright: “For adults who challenge the mole, the game becomes an   analogy for the things in life that elude us. ” So what are those things we think we want or can do? PREDICTING THE FUTURE We do not know where the mole will pop up next, that much should be clear. But that unpredictability is itself predictable, so when we liken    to our own lives, we ought to embrace that uncertainty. On a basic budgeting level, that means that we should stop being surprised by the failed   or the $800 auto repair. “One can view these events like the mole that popped up without your expecting it and did its damage before you could address it,” said Barry Korb, a financial planner in Potomac, Md. “Or, one can set up a ‘Life Happens’ fund. ” When it comes to investing in stocks, we ought to be aggressive in our humility, lest we think that repeated mole hunting somehow makes us better at divining the future. “You can play it a thousand times, and you still have no control whatsoever in controlling where the mole pops up or detecting a pattern,” said Roy Larsen, a financial planner in Cumming, Ga. who worked many game booths at his church’s annual carnival when he was growing up. “Sadly, investors create the    analogy because they continue to try to control the uncontrollable. ” In practice, that often means making the mistake of selling when stocks fall, out of certainty that they will fall further still and buying after they have already gone up, once things are certain to be safe. That course of action runs the risk of locking in losses and then buying when markets are at their peak. Many people who sold stocks at midday on Monday probably regret it now that stocks have recovered most of their losses. SHINY, SLIPPERY THINGS Bob’s Space Racers has tweaked the game over the years, especially the solo arcade version. “The idea was to have a game that no one could master,” said Michael Lane, the company’s vice president. “Therefore, there’d be a little bit of frustration with it. ” On the day I spoke to Mark Struthers about the game, his sons had run off to Dave  Buster’s with their mother to cash in coupons. He wields a mallet, too, every so often, but he sees disturbing echoes of Mr. Lane’s comments in his financial planning clients who want to chase the latest hot investment. “They’re trying to whack that mole,” he said, describing the master limited partnerships, which are   investments often involving energy that have drawn much client interest in recent years. “It’s popped up, it’s trendy, and they pile in. ” Then, the value falls before they even understand how the investment works, and they are on to the next thing: gold, equity indexed annuities, or whatever. “Their friends have it,” he added, “so they’ll whack at that. ” Mr. Struthers, whose business is in Chanhassen, Minn. is a former blackjack dealer, so he knows the type. Those friends of his clients may talk a good game, but they, like the gamblers he met at his tables, only talk about their winners. SPEED In his youth, Mike McCarthy worked a water gun booth at the Maryland State Fair. At 14, he made $2, 200 in commission for just 10 days of work. Now, he is the chief operating officer of a financial planning firm, the Financial Consulate, which has offices in Pennsylvania and Maryland, but his carny roots help him see the connections between midway games and his clients’ financial lives. “   is a game of chasing a fleeting target, often just missing it,” he said. “Sadly, many people feel the same way with their finances, whether chasing debt, investment return or a perceived gap in their quality of life. ” The seeming pace of change, of action, makes it feel as if we need to react at twitch speed, too. On Monday, Catherine Cardiello danced and yelped after winning two straight    games on Coney Island. “Just go fast,” said Ms. Cardiello, a former Wall Street trader. “The only thing I liked about trading was the pace. I want fast, and I want a result, and then I either suffer or celebrate. ” It is a fine approach to the trading pits and winning at whacking. But there is not much in our own financial lives that requires such haste. In fact,   decision making on investing or spending quite often leads to regret. Newer versions of    reward the player who hits the animal at just the right moment  —   at its apex once it has fully emerged from the hole. That may be a metaphor that all of us can live by, as making a move that is not too fast and not too slow may be the difference between wielding the mallet and being the mole.