CHICAGO  —   A Chicago officer whose police powers were suspended after the officer shot an   teenager in the back last week was wearing a body camera, but the device was not operating and did not record the fatal encounter, officials said on Monday. Advocates for the family of Paul O’Neal, the    who was killed on Thursday, reacted skeptically to claims of the faulty body camera, wondering aloud why the department had invested in the technology if it did not work. “If there is not a   here, I don’t know where there is one,” said Michael Oppenheimer, a lawyer who on Monday filed a federal wrongful death lawsuit on behalf of the family. The shooting happened after officers chased a stolen Jaguar convertible through the South Side before it collided with a police cruiser on a residential street. Two officers opened fire. Cameras captured some early stages of the encounter, but not the fatal gunshot, apparently fired by another officer after Mr. O’Neal fled the crash scene on foot. Anthony Guglielmi, a Chicago police spokesman, noted that police officers in that part of the city had been using body cameras only for a few days, and said the authorities were investigating why there was no footage of the fatal gunshot. The Chicago Police Department has been criticized for a series of shootings of black men in recent years, and it is under federal investigation and still in turmoil after protests over the shooting death of a black teenager, Laquan McDonald, in 2014. The use of body cameras had been promoted as a step toward transparency. The three officers were stripped of their police powers for their actions during Thursday’s shooting. The police superintendent, Eddie Johnson, who promised to rebuild trust with the community when he was promoted this year, said footage from other body cameras and a dashboard camera was “very helpful” in leading him to believe department policies may have been violated. The officers were not identified, and video footage was not made public. Mr. O’Neal’s death is being investigated by Chicago’s Independent Police Review Authority, an agency that until recently almost never faulted officers in shootings. Officials at the county and federal prosecutors’ offices in Chicago declined to comment on Monday on whether they were involved in the case. While police officers in Chicago have seized 5, 000 guns this year, murders are up sharply, and the police union has cited low officer morale as the Justice Department investigation continues. Amid all of this, Mr. Johnson said it was important to recognize that a misjudgment by an officer was not necessarily intentional brutality. “Policing isn’t easy,” Mr. Johnson said in an interview on Monday. “We’re asking these cops to make   decisions, and sometimes they’re    decisions. ” But grief filled the street where Mr. O’Neal was shot. Near a makeshift memorial of teddy bears and signs, Ja’Mal Green, an activist serving as a spokesman for the family, said Mr. O’Neal’s death and others like it made it difficult to repair relations between Chicago’s police officers and its black residents. “Once we can have some type of cameras that work and actually show our side of the story,” Mr. Green said, “and actually get these officers prosecuted and hold these officers accountable, that’s when we can start seeing a relationship between police and the community. ”