Almost everyone who has lived in Manhattan has had the dream. Wandering through your apartment, you see a door nobody has noticed before. On the other side, you find that you have been living all along with extra rooms: enough space for an office, a guest bedroom, a painting studio, a   closet, a tiki bar, a library. That sensation is what you get walking into Agern for the first time. Just off a corridor in Grand Central Terminal that you’ve probably rushed down hundreds of times, behind a set of doors locked for longer than most New Yorkers can remember, a restaurant has appeared. In the three months since it opened, Agern has made both the train station and the city’s dining landscape into roomier, more interesting places. There are no windows, and the front entrance, at the top of a short flight of stairs, is marked by a small sign that’s easy to walk past. This makes Agern ( ) feel like a quiet harbor away from the eddies and currents of commuters outside. Hours can slip away. In the modern Scandinavian dining room, pale wood, charcoal seat cushions and wall tiles in mossy Grand Central green create a calming mood. It’s like a spa with tasting menus and cocktails. The primary owner is the Danish restaurateur Claus Meyer, one of the founders of Noma, in Copenhagen, and of its New Nordic cooking style. New Nordic is not so much a cuisine as a philosophy. Its followers value traditional methods like curing and smoking, and seek out forgotten or overlooked ingredients from nearby. Mr. Meyer recruited Gunnar Gislason, the chef of the New Nordic restaurant Dill, in Reykjavik, Iceland, to run the kitchen. Mr. Gislason has imported Dill’s philosophy but not, for the most part, its Icelandic provisions, like the dried sheep droppings over which fish is smoked. Buying food raised around New York, he and his chef de cuisine, Joseph Yardley, treat the city as another Scandinavian capital:   . Sign on for the Field and Forest menu, a vegetarian excursion through seven courses with a salvo of finger foods (the $120 price, like all the prices at Agern, includes service) and the plants you eat are mostly those you could buy at Union Square Greenmarket. What the kitchen does to them gives them an unfamiliar and often transporting cast. There was, for instance, a potato salad that caused double and triple takes. The potatoes had a restrained but durable smokiness. They were served with shaved rhubarb, ramps and feathery red seaweed, which carried a memory of the ocean. Finally, long yellow bands of cured egg yolk had the salty, intensifying effect of bottarga. That salad has been replaced by one with lemon cucumbers and fleshy summer melon, but the cured egg remains, giving the fruit and vegetables a depth I didn’t expect. Preserved blackberries, tart and a little salty, brought a welcome sharpness to endive salad, dressed with mild and creamy havgus cheese and chopped almonds. Sweet corn and fresh chanterelles are a classic summer match, but I had no idea how wonderful they could taste with the addition of tarragon and golden raspberries. The Land and Sea menu costs $25 more. In the New Nordic spirit, the animal flesh is not supplied by overworked and unsustainable ingredients. It comes from more humble stuff. Rather than foie gras, there is beef heart, chopped into red filaments that provide ballast and iron to a salad of skinny asparagus stems and garlic scapes with tart green slices of unripe strawberries. Instead of bluefin tuna, you eat skate, cooked gingerly to keep the appealing gelatinous softness, under celery and batons of apple. Heirloom pork is not the loin but the neck, imbued (too strongly?) with rosemary and served with a crisp, simple, creamy and very good salad of green beans. The two menus are not that far apart. Sometimes they are separated by a single ingredient: A few briny spoonfuls of trout eggs get the potato salad admitted to the Land and Sea menu. From time to time, they converge on an identical dish like the unaccountably delicious potato fry bread, a fritter of sourdough mixed with mashed potatoes, or the roasted beet. The last time I ate at Agern, this had become “our famous beet. ” It does seem to have been consciously designed to be talked about. It’s carved on a cart next to the table after being liberated from the    crust it’s baked in. The crust is supposed to give the beet the flavor it would pick up over a wood fire, but it didn’t taste smoky to me. My first bite was impossibly salty, too. But after that, its natural flavors were deeply concentrated, and the underlying beet salad, flecked with fresh horseradish and fried caraway seeds, was stunning on its own. So was the tiny loaf of   rye bread, wonderful with beets mashed into it and even more wonderful under a thick coat of butter. These   loaves are baked by Rhonda Crosson, and I think they are at least as good as her big rounds of sourdough, and those are exceptional. Agern’s pastry chef, Rebecca Eichenbaum, showed how resourceful she could be in her last job, at Wassail, where she spun elaborate desserts out of parsnips and carrots. She is no less inventive at Agern, but the results are a little less effortful, even as she tops ripe berries with a kombucha ice made from rose petals or doubles up on the tartness of sorrel sherbet with curls of barely sweetened rhubarb. Many of these can be ordered individually, a considerate option from a restaurant where on the wrong night the tasting menus can inch forward like the   local to New Haven. My last meal lasted more than four hours, for no discernible reason. There may be travelers, or even nontravelers, who would be happy with two courses and dessert. I’d suggest, though, that they stay away from the $68 “  hung beef” whatever flavor it picked up from hanging was stamped out by horseradish cream and horseradish leaves. In Denmark, Mr. Meyer is also active in delis, bakeries, a coffee roaster and other concerns. Last year, he moved to New York, and he is adapting to his new home with the same entrepreneurial energy. In Brooklyn, he has opened a bakery and a coffee roaster under the direction of a star of the Copenhagen caffeine scene named Omar Maagaard. Mr. Maagaard’s beans are brewed into Agern’s espresso and   which made me think for the first time that the people who compare coffee to great wine are not completely barking mad. And I say this having lived through five excruciating minutes during which coffee was brewed drop by drop atop a digital scale. (For tableside drama, digital scales run a distant third to sharp knives and open flames.) Following the   spirit, most of the other drinks are grown in the United States. Chad Walsh has put together a list of domestic wines, beers, spirits, cider and mead. (Strange things are happening in mead, a beverage that is pretty strange to begin with.) As you leave, you’re handed a cloth sack or two. Inside you may find a small sourdough loaf with a jar of butter or bright, freshly cooked raspberry jam. Or a bottle of   coffee. They could be advertisements for Mr. Meyer’s tentacular operations, I suppose, but ads rarely taste so good the next day.