After finishing, having roared through the last 50 meters of the   freestyle at a sprinter’s pace, Katie Ledecky turned around to see the scoreboard. It told her what she surely already knew: she had won gold, her first of the Rio Games, and she had crushed her own world record. “To see the 56 up there feels really good,” Ledecky said, referring to her time, 3 minutes 56. 46 seconds. Her previous record was 3:58. 37. Jazz Carlin of Britain won silver in 4:01. 23, and Ledecky’s teammate Leah Smith was third in 4:01. 92. It was the 12th world record Ledecky has set since the 2012 London Olympics. She skipped the 3:57s altogether, but that was her plan. She said a 3:56 had been her goal for the past three years. She needed only 28. 92 seconds to cover the final 50 meters, a burst that is not supposed to happen in this event. “I just let it all out,” she said. Only two women have gone under four minutes: Ledecky and Italy’s Federica Pellegrini, who twice accomplished the feat in 2009 while wearing the   buoyant suits that since have been banned. Ledecky, a rising freshman at Stanford, was the first to surpass 3:59 when she set the previous mark, a 3:58. 37 at the 2014 Pan Pacific Championships. She now owns the 10 fastest performances in the 400. Ledecky’s victory is the first gold medal of these Olympics for American swimmers, and it came the day after she made her Olympic sprint debut, anchoring the U. S.   freestyle relay that earned the silver medal and set an American record. Ledecky, who will defend her Olympic title in the 800 freestyle later this week, increased her stroke rate for the   race. Her coach, Bruce Gemmell, had to remind Ledecky to slow her tempo for the   race to avoid, in her words, “spinning my wheels. ” A few minutes after Ledecky’s victory, the United States men’s 4x100 relay won gold. The foursome of Caeleb Dressel, Michael Phelps, Ryan Held and Nathan Adrian beat France and the favorites, Australia. Bob Bowman, the men’s coach, credited Ledecky with an assist. “When you see an otherworldly swim like that the guys know they have to step up,” Bowman said. “How can you not be inspired when you see something like that?”