WARREN, Mich.  —   In a   rejection of Donald J. Trump’s economic policies, Hillary Clinton on Thursday accused him of feigning a connection to the working man, while advocating policies that would “work for him and his friends, at the expense of everyone else. ” Seeking to chip away at the perception among   white voters that Mr. Trump is the economic populist in the race, Mrs. Clinton said the Republican nominee merely paid “lip service” to being on the side of average Americans. She repeatedly contrasted his personal wealth with her own   upbringing. “There is a myth out there that he’ll stick it to the rich and powerful because, somehow, at heart, he’s really on the side of the little guy,” Mrs. Clinton said. “Don’t believe it. ” Mrs. Clinton referred to the tax cuts for the wealthy and corporations that Mr. Trump presented in a speech in Detroit on Monday, saying he “wants to give trillions in tax breaks to people like himself,” which would lead to broad cuts in spending on education, health care and environmental protection. Although she has attacked Mr. Trump’s business record for months, her address on Thursday presented the first opportunity for Mrs. Clinton to deliver a detailed    rebuttal to the economic proposals Mr. Trump unveiled this week. The nearly    addresses on the economy put into sharp relief the candidates’ contrasting positions on an issue that has preoccupied voters throughout the lengthy presidential contest, with Mr. Trump seizing on economic dislocation in mixing populist   positions with traditionally Republican tax cutting, and Mrs. Clinton seeing a strong government hand in creating jobs and driving up wages. Mrs. Clinton called for making the biggest infrastructure investment  —   $275 billion  —   since World War II, and urged aggressive spending on green energy to counter China and Germany. And she repeated her plans to make public colleges and universities   for     families. And she sharply criticized important elements of Mr. Trump’s tax cut plans, particularly the elimination of the estate tax and his plan to cut the corporate tax rate to 15 percent from 35 percent she said his plan for business owners included what she called the “Trump loophole,” which would “allow him to pay less than half the current tax rate on income from many of his own companies. ” She characterized her opponent’s economic doctrine as a “more extreme version of the failed theory of   economics” mixed with his own “outlandish Trumpian ideas that even Republicans reject. ” And she rejected Mr. Trump’s promises to ease financial regulation and do away with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which he calls detrimental to average Americans. “Even conservative experts say Trump’s agenda will pull our economy back into recession,” and cause the loss of 3. 4 million jobs, Mrs. Clinton said, pointing to an analysis for Moody’s Analytics led by Mark Zandi, who advised Senator John McCain’s 2008 presidential campaign. Mrs. Clinton’s remarks often transcended policy, as she sought to portray Mr. Trump as an    businessman who would squash the working class. She talked about her grandfather’s years of labor in a lace mill in Scranton, Pa. and her father’s small   business in Chicago. “This is personal for me,” Mrs. Clinton said. “I am the product of the American middle class. ” But for all of her efforts, Mr. Trump remains a difficult opponent to critique in traditional ideological terms. Although some of his policies align with those of congressional Republicans, others, like his promise to rip up global trade agreements, break with Republican orthodoxy. And unlike Mitt Romney, whom President Obama effectively portrayed as a cold corporate titan in the 2012 race, Mr. Trump enjoys some of his strongest support among   white voters who believe he cares about people like them. The issue of trade particularly hurt Mrs. Clinton in the primary in Michigan, which is heavily reliant on manufacturing jobs. She narrowly lost the state to Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, who, like Mr. Trump, sharply criticized Mrs. Clinton for her previous support for the North American Free Trade Agreement, or Nafta, which her husband signed into law, and the   Partnership, which she supported as secretary of state. Before Mrs. Clinton’s speech, Mr. Trump used an address to the National Association of Home Builders in Miami Beach to assail former President Bill Clinton for signing Nafta into law, which Mr. Trump said devastated upstate New York, and he hammered Mrs. Clinton for failing to deliver on a promise she made in her 2000 Senate campaign to bring 200, 000 jobs to the state. “She passed no legislation that helped,” he said. “She couldn’t get out of her own way. ” Mrs. Clinton gave her address after touring the Futuramic Tool  Engineering factory in Warren, which made automotive parts in the past but has diversified to supply parts to the aerospace industry. Praising the company for being at the front line of a potential “manufacturing renaissance,” Mrs. Clinton criticized Mr. Trump for taking a dark view of America’s potential. “When Donald Trump visited Detroit on Monday, he talked only of failure, poverty and crime,” she said. “He’s missing so much. ” Mrs. Clinton has spent over a year explaining her main economic proposals and did not propose anything new on Thursday. But she did contrast her specific promises with those Mr. Trump offered on Monday. She mocked Mr. Trump’s plan to give tax breaks for child care  —   the brainchild of his daughter Ivanka and intended to appeal to   mothers  —   as a boon to rich families with nannies. And, in contrast to Mr. Trump’s corporate tax reductions, she said she would impose an “exit tax” to penalize companies that move jobs overseas and offer tax incentives to companies that share profits with employees. “Then there’s the estate tax, which Trump wants to eliminate altogether,” she said. “If you believe that he’s as wealthy as he says, that alone would save the Trump family $4 billion. ” But on one issue that has resonated with   voters, Mrs. Clinton played defense on Thursday. Halfway through the speech, she paused. The crowd grew quiet. “I’m sure some of you are thinking, well, that all sounds good, but what about trade?” she said. “After all, Trump talks about it all the time. ” While reiterating her opposition to the   Partnership, she belittled Mr. Trump’s tough talk on trade as empty, noting how he makes   products overseas. “Before he tweets about how he’s really one who’ll put ‘America First’ in trade, let’s remember where Trump makes many of his own products,” she said. “Because it is sure not America. ” Outside the factory setting, a scattering of   protesters held “Hillary for Prison” signs and criticized Mrs. Clinton’s connections to Wall Street. And more than 1, 000 miles away in Florida, Mr. Trump echoed that critique. “She doesn’t have the talent” to   the economy, Mr. Trump said. “If she wanted to do it, she couldn’t because her donors won’t let her. ” Wielding a chart, Mr. Trump said the Obama administration’s policies that Mrs. Clinton wants to continue have led to plummeting home ownership rates and anemic economic growth. He also suggested that Mrs. Clinton wanted to raise taxes by $1. 3 trillion and place more of that burden on the middle class  —   something that she  has not proposed. “Many workers are earning less money in real dollars than they were in 1970,” Mr. Trump said. “And then you wonder why they’re angry. ” In her speech, Mrs. Clinton tried to address voters’ anger over income inequality, but she also tried to frame her plans as the optimistic flip side of Mr. Trump’s pessimistic assessment of the country’s economic prospects, pointing to two Olympic gold medalists. “If Team U. S. A. was as fearful as Trump,” she said, “Michael Phelps and Simone Biles would be cowering in the locker room. ”