BERLIN  —   The German government proposed a broad range of measures on Thursday to bolster security and combat terrorism, its strongest official response so far to two recent attacks by terrorists pledging loyalty to the Islamic State and a deadly shooting rampage in Munich. Many of the measures, which include closer monitoring of refugees and enhanced surveillance, seem likely to win legislative approval but prompted concerns in a country that is deeply protective of privacy and civil liberties. The package of proposals is the most comprehensive from the German government since Europe became a consistent target of terrorist attacks by the Islamic State, other radical groups and their followers. They were unveiled at a time when Chancellor Angela Merkel is facing accusations that the welcome she gave last year to migrants streaming to the Continent from Syria and other nations in the Middle East has compromised security. The German plan, and the response to it, reflected a broader tension in the West over how to balance steps to combat terrorism against civil liberties and political realities amid a resurgence in populism, nationalism and   sentiment. The proposals announced by the interior minister, Thomas de Maizière, call for hiring more federal police officers making it a crime to express sympathy for terrorism greater sharing of intelligence data across Europe closer watching of the “dark web,” the part of the internet that is invisible to ordinary users stripping dual citizens of their German citizenship if they fight for extremist groups and making it easier to deport foreigners deemed to be dangerous. Strengthening the federal government’s   powers is particularly fraught for a country where the legacies of Nazi and Communist control have left a deep suspicion of centralized authority and official surveillance, and where the powers of the central government remain limited because of the history of totalitarian control. Ralf Stegner, a leading Social Democrat, said that the plan was the clear result of “public pressure in the last few weeks,” which made terrorism more a reality than an abstraction. In a phone interview, Mr. Stegner said his party supported hiring additional police officers, upgrading technology, investigating the dark web and improving cooperation with other European countries, but was more skeptical of a proposal by Mr. de Maizière to restrict certain rights of migrants whose asylum applications have been denied but who cannot easily be deported. Mr. Stegner noted that France  —   despite a state of emergency in place since terrorist attacks in and around Paris last November  —   has not managed to halt further attacks, and that “the mood there, and the situation, are quite different” from Germany. Last year, 1. 1 million foreigners migrated to Germany  —   a record  —   and the country received 442, 000 asylum applications. Ms. Merkel has insisted that Germany can successfully assimilate the newcomers, but the recent attacks have strained the coalition government she leads. With elections in two states in September and a national vote next year, Ms. Merkel’s   Christian Democrats and their coalition partners, the   Social Democrats, worry that the populist,   Alternative for Germany party could make strong gains. In announcing the measures on Thursday, Mr. de Maizière emphasized that Germany “must change” in the face of new threats, by showing enhanced vigilance, deploying new technologies and even, in some cases, overriding strong   War II concerns about privacy. He said he wanted to install sophisticated video equipment in about 20 significant railroad stations, and to improve the sharing of surveillance footage among law enforcement agencies, adding that the shooting rampage in Munich, at a shopping mall, showed that public spaces were potential “soft targets” for terrorists. The Munich rampage, which killed nine people, was the work of a teenager, Ali Sonboly, who had been in psychiatric treatment and was fascinated by previous mass shootings. The pistol he used, a Glock 17, was a former theater weapon, apparently bought on the internet, that had been restored to be able to shoot live rounds. Mr. de Maizière proposed much tighter European regulations to register such weapon conversions and to crack down on internet arms sales. Similarly, his proposals to monitor newly arrived refugees and people susceptible to radicalization seemed aimed at preventing terrorist attacks like the two by Islamic State adherents last month. The first, on July 18, was carried out by a person identified only as a    Afghan who was living with a foster family in Bavaria. He wounded four people on a train with an ax and a knife, and then attacked a woman walking her dog he was later shot by the police. Six days later, in Germany’s first Islamist suicide attack, a    Syrian blew himself up outside a music festival in the Bavarian town of Ansbach and wounded 15. The authorities had previously ordered him deported, and, on Thursday, Mr. de Maizière announced further measures to make it easier to deport foreign criminals. “Nobody can guarantee absolute security,” Mr. de Maizière said. “But we must do everything in our power” to try to ensure safety. “One thing is sure,” he added, “our country will not respond to the violence of the perpetrators with hate and division. We will not allow the terrorists that triumph. ” Mr. de Maizière reiterated publicly concerns previously voiced privately by senior intelligence officials that Germany  —   and Europe  —   does not always know enough about migrants. He noted that the recent decision to register air travelers in and out of Europe was an improvement, and he urged that all of Germany’s federal and state law enforcement and intelligence officials should have access to that information. “We see in recent months that these offices must know exactly who is coming to Europe, and who is leaving it,” he said. Other measures he proposed included combing the social media profiles of refugees and other migrants to look out for signs of radicalization, as the authorities in the Netherlands, Norway and Sweden have done. In a statement, Mr. de Maizière said that officials could have gleaned more information after a bomb threat at a mall in Dortmund if officials had had access to surveillance footage, which he said had been restricted by data protection officials. “Overall, we must extend and optimize our use of I. T. ” he said, referring to information technology. Mr. de Maizière said that the government had approved adding 4, 600 security jobs, 3, 250 of them in the federal police force, which, under the structure largely set up by the Allies after World War II, has traditionally taken a back seat to the police in the country’s 16 states. The German press had speculated that the government would propose punishing doctors who failed to inform the authorities if they suspected patients of potentially committing violent acts. But patient confidentiality is taken very seriously in Germany, given the involvement of doctors in the crimes of the Nazi era doctors can be punished for breaching patient privacy, with certain exceptions. Mr. de Maizière said on Thursday that the government would not change the principle of protecting patients, but he urged doctors to contact the government if they believe a patient is dangerous or about to commit a crime. Dr. Frank Ulrich Montgomery, the president of the German Medical Association, said in a statement that he was relieved “that medical confidentiality is not to be called into question. ” Mr. de Maizière also rejected as “constitutionally problematic” other ideas that some conservative lawmakers have floated, including a ban on burqas.