They arrived early, an hour before the judge started hearing cases on Thursday, taking up much of a long bench in the Queens courtroom. They were family members of Oscar Morel, the man charged with   murder in the   attack on an imam and his assistant on a sidewalk on Saturday afternoon. The relatives had come to support Mr. Morel as he returned to Queens Criminal Court, facing charges that carry a maximum sentence of life in prison without parole for an attack that has stirred fear and anger among Muslims in New York. His family members called out to him during the brief hearing, telling him, “Love you, Oscar,” even though they were chastised by the judge. Mr. Morel, who turned 36 on Thursday, acknowledged them with a nod. The relatives declined to talk to reporters. But as his father, who declined to give his name, walked out of the courthouse supported by two relatives, he said in halting English, “He don’t do it. ” On Saturday, the authorities said, Mr. Morel approached the imam, Alauddin Akonjee, 55, and his assistant, Thara Miah, 64, from behind near the intersection of Liberty Avenue and 79th Street in the Ozone Park neighborhood, and then shot them both in the head. Mr. Morel, who worked as a janitor, was taken into police custody on Sunday night, and has been charged with a single count of   murder and two counts of   murder. Police officials said that investigators found a weapon, a .  revolver that tests showed was used in the killings, hidden inside a wall in his apartment, as well as clothes of Mr. Morel’s that fit the description of what the gunman was believed to have worn during the attack. There was also video evidence connecting Mr. Morel to the scene, officials said. But during the hearing on Thursday, prosecutors said that a potential witness in the case failed to identify Mr. Morel as the assailant during a lineup, selecting another person who had been placed by the police. It was a development that Mr. Morel’s lawyer, Michael J. Schwed, said he found troubling, indicating “something prejudicial in the way that the lineup was conducted. ” Mr. Schwed said outside the courtroom that he had met only briefly with Mr. Morel, but that his client had spent much of the time insisting that he was innocent. “I told him I was his lawyer,” Mr. Schwed said. “And he said: ‘I didn’t do this and what can we do? How can I prove it?’ He was very upset. ” Mr. Schwed added, “And he’s hoping to get exonerated as soon as possible. ” Outside City Hall on Thursday morning, relatives of Mr. Akonjee and Mr. Miah gathered with activists and other members of the city’s Muslim community, where they condemned the attack and continued calls for the authorities to classify the killings as a hate crime. Officials have said that they had not ruled out classifying the attack as a hate crime, but investigators had to know more about what motivated the killings before doing so. Momin M. Ahmed, a    of Mr. Akonjee, said that his family was desperate for answers. “We want to know what’s the reason for it, and we want justice,” said Mr. Ahmed, who described Mr. Akonjee as peaceful and loving. Mashuk Uddin, a younger brother of Mr. Miah, said he had struggled to cope with the loss of a brother who, after their father died, had become more like a father to him. “I cannot sleep,” he said. “I cannot eat. ” Many in the Muslim community believe that the episode was the result of animosity stirred by   rhetoric. “It’s our worst nightmare come true,” Iman Boukadoum, a board member of the Association of Muslim American Lawyers, said. During the gathering, attendees also said they wanted city officials to rename the streets near the site of the attack after the two men, as a memorial and as a physical reminder of the painful repercussions from the violence. “The tragedy is not just theirs,” Afaf Nasher, the executive director of the Council on   Relations of New York, said, referring to the men’s families, tears streaming down her face. “It’s all of ours. ”