A lawyer for Melania Trump said Monday that he had informed several news organizations, including The Daily Mail, that they could face legal action for publishing articles that Ms. Trump contended were defamatory. In an email, the lawyer, Charles J. Harder, said Ms. Trump, the wife of Donald J. Trump, the Republican presidential nominee, “has placed several news organizations on notice of her legal claims against them, including Daily Mail among others, for making false and defamatory statements about her supposedly having been an ‘escort’ in the 1990s. ” “All such statements are 100 percent false, highly damaging to her reputation, and personally hurtful,” Mr. Harder added. “She understands that news media have certain leeway in a presidential campaign, but outright lying about her in this way exceeds all bounds of appropriate news reporting and human decency. ” He said no suit had been filed, but added, “That may change. ” The Daily Mail, a British tabloid, did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Mr. Harder represented the former professional wrestler Hulk Hogan in the    lawsuit against Gawker Media that ultimately resulted in Gawker’s filing for bankruptcy. Peter Thiel, the billionaire Silicon Valley entrepreneur who spoke in July at the Republican National Convention, acknowledged in May that he had secretly funded the Hogan case and others against Gawker. Among the news outlets that Mr. Harder said had been sent notices were Inquisitr (which apologized to Ms. Trump and retracted an article about her that was published within the last week) Politico and Liberal America. Politico declined to comment. Reached by telephone, Tiffany Willis, the founder and editor in chief of Liberal America, said her publication received an emailed letter from Mr. Harder. In the email, a copy of which is posted on the publication’s website, Mr. Harder listed several statements he claimed were defamatory and demanded that the publication “immediately and permanently remove each of these statements from the story, and print a full and complete retraction and apology, with as prominent placement as the original story. ” “Failure to do so,” Mr. Harder added, “will leave my client with no alternative but to institute immediate legal proceedings against you and, should that occur, she would pursue all available causes of action and seek all available legal remedies to the maximum extent permitted by law. ”