Responding to a growing furor from consumers and politicians, the pharmaceutical company Mylan said on Thursday that it would lower the    costs to some patients who need EpiPens, which are used to treat   allergy attacks. The company said it would immediately offer more financial assistance with   for patients with commercial insurance and expand the number of uninsured patients eligible for free EpiPens. But the moves did not mollify critics of Mylan because the company did not lower the list price of the EpiPen, which has risen to $600 for a pack of two from about $100 in 2007. So the total cost to the health system, a cost borne largely by insurers, the federal government and school districts, will remain the same. “Mylan should not offer    discounts only for a select few  —   it should reverse its massive price increases across the board immediately,’’ Representative Elijah E. Cummings, Democrat of Maryland, who has been investigating rising drug prices, said in a statement. In its announcement of the new measures, Mylan put much of the blame for the problem not on its price increases but on insurance companies for placing a higher burden on patients for    costs. “We have been a   committed partner to the allergy community and are taking immediate action to help ensure that everyone who needs an EpiPen   gets one,” Heather Bresch, Mylan’s chief executive, said in a statement. “We recognize the significant burden on patients from continued, rising insurance premiums and being forced increasingly to pay the full list price for medicines at the pharmacy counter. ” Mylan said that out of the $608 list price for EpiPen, it gets only $274. The rest goes to pharmacy benefit managers, insurers, wholesalers and retail pharmacies. The EpiPen is an   containing the hormone epinephrine that can be used to counter or stave off anaphylactic shock caused by an insect bite, bee sting or food allergy. It is pressed against the thigh and automatically injects the drug. Offering   assistance and free product is part of the standard playbook for makers of expensive drugs. Making sure patients do not go without medicines reduces any political furor. Also, providing financial assistance only to those who need it reduces a pharmaceutical manufacturer’s revenue much less than cutting prices across the board.   assistance can even increase revenues by getting more patients to use a drug, for which insurance companies must then pay. The discounts call attention to how the    costs for drugs vary widely for consumers, depending on their insurance coverage. Here is how it breaks down for EpiPen after the measures announced by Mylan on Thursday. The largest group of EpiPen users, accounting for an estimated 70 percent of the total, have commercial insurance. These patients usually are responsible for  . If their insurance policy has a high deductible that has not yet been met, patients might have to pay the full price for EpiPen. For these patients, Mylan is offering a savings coupon worth up to $300, which can be obtained from the prescribing physician or the EpiPen website. Previously it had offered a coupon worth up to $100. So patients with   of less than $300, which means most patients, would have no    cost if they use the coupon. If an insured patient is paying full price because of a high deductible, the coupon will cut the cost in half, to about $300 from $600. Another group, accounting for only about 5 percent of EpiPen users, have no insurance or insurance without prescription benefits. They typically have to pay the full price. Mylan will now give free EpiPens to uninsured patients with incomes below 400 percent of the federal poverty level. (The company said the limit would be $97, 200 for a family of four.) Previously the limit was 200 percent of the poverty level. Patients have to apply for this every year and provide financial information and documentation. People covered by federal programs like Medicare, Medicaid and the military’s Tricare will not see any difference. Drug companies are not allowed to provide   assistance to such patients because it is considered a kickback, an illegal financial inducement to get someone to use a product for which the government is then billed. Some drug companies give money to charities that are allowed to provide   assistance to such patients. But there does not appear to be one available for the EpiPen. People with Medicare coverage can encounter big    costs for drugs, especially if they enter the   doughnut hole. Medicaid can require   for certain patients. But a spokeswoman for Mylan said that more than 90 percent of Medicare and Medicaid patients have coverage for EpiPen.