WASHINGTON  —   President Trump intends to move forward with a major investigation of voter fraud that he says cost him the popular vote, White House officials said Wednesday, despite bipartisan condemnation of his allegations and the conclusion of Mr. Trump’s own lawyers that the election was “not tainted. ” In his first days in the Oval Office, Mr. Trump has renewed his complaint that millions of people voted illegally, depriving him of a   majority. In two Twitter posts early Wednesday morning, the president vowed to open an inquiry to reveal people who are registered to vote in multiple states or who remain on voting rolls long after they have died. “We have to understand where the problem exists, how deep it goes, and then suggest some remedies to it,” said Sean Spicer, the president’s press secretary. He said the White House would reveal more details this week. But voting officials in both parties across the country said the answer to those questions is already clear: Fraudulent voting happens in tiny, sporadic episodes that have no impact on the outcome of elections. It is virtually impossible, several state election officials said, that millions of people voted illegally in last year’s presidential contest. In fact, that was the conclusion of Mr. Trump’s own lawyers last year as they sought to stop recount efforts in Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. “All available evidence suggests that the 2016 general election was not tainted by fraud or mistake,” Mr. Trump’s lawyers wrote in their response to recount petitions by Jill Stein, the Green Party presidential candidate. Mr. Spicer said the lawyers were referring only to states where Mr. Trump campaigned extensively. In Ohio, Secretary of State Jon A. Husted, a Republican, said Wednesday in an interview that there was “no evidence” that voter fraud was happening on a large scale. Edgardo Cortés, Virginia’s election chief, a Democrat, said there was “no basis” for the claims. And California’s Democratic secretary of state lashed out at the president for undermining confidence in the election system. “Free and fair elections are the bedrock of our democracy, and he’s taken a jackhammer to it with his irresponsible tweets,” said Alex Padilla, the state’s top election official. “Whatever proof or evidence he said he had, he clearly didn’t have. His allegations since November are clearly lies, not alternative facts. ” Mr. Trump has repeatedly shifted his view of the election system. As a candidate, he frequently railed against what he called a “rigged” election. When he became   he complained about “serious voter fraud,” but later reversed himself and mocked Ms. Stein’s recount efforts as “a scam” and a waste of time and money. This week, he   again, telling lawmakers at a White House reception that Hillary Clinton won the popular vote because millions of immigrants in the country illegally voted for her. Mr. Spicer declined to elaborate on what Mr. Trump meant but did not back away from the assertion. “The president does believe that,” Mr. Spicer said. “It’s a belief that he’s maintained for a while, a concern that he has about voter fraud. And that’s based on information that’s provided. ” It remains unclear what form a federal investigation may take. While the F. B. I. has the authority to look into voter fraud, that appears not to be what the president has in mind. Mr. Spicer said it was too early to know, but mentioned the possibility of a task force or commission. He cited studies that he said showed that voter rolls contained the names of millions of people who should not be there because they had moved, were not citizens or had since died. But the author of one of those major studies said Wednesday that Mr. Spicer and the president appeared to be misunderstanding the numbers. David Becker, who for six years was in charge of the election initiative for the Pew Center on the States, said that voter rolls often had    information, but that there was virtually no evidence that many of those names were used to vote illegally. “It does exist, but it happens in very, very small numbers and nothing like what is claimed by the president,” Mr. Becker said. He said systems across the country to prevent voter fraud would have caught any huge effort to vote illegally. “We would have seen that well before the election,” he said. “We would have seen a swelling of the voter rolls and records. ” In Ohio, for example, a review of the state’s elections in 2012 and 2014 found that out of millions of votes cast, there were 667 allegations of fraud, of which just 149 were referred to law enforcement for investigation, Mr. Husted said. The Ohio review, which happens after every election, also found that 436 unauthorized immigrants were registered to vote and that 44 had voted. “Voter fraud exists. It’s not widespread or systemic,” said Mr. Husted, who said he had voted for Mr. Trump. “There’s no evidence that that is happening on a   basis. ” Mr. Husted said he would be happy to share Ohio’s review of the 2016 election with the federal government when it was completed. And he said Mr. Trump could aid states by sharing government databases that could help them clean their voter rolls. In his Twitter message Wednesday, Mr. Trump suggested that a federal review could lead to improvements in voting procedures. But Democrats and voting experts criticized the president for focusing his allegations on voter fraud while resisting the intelligence community’s conclusions involving Russian hacking of the Democratic National Commitee and officials connected to Mrs. Clinton during last year’s election. “It’s more important that we investigate the known instances of election fraud, rather than imagined ones,” said Kim Alexander, the president of the California Voter Foundation, a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization dedicated to improving the voting process. “We have had an election that was compromised by foreign interests. That’s the real danger that has come out of this election. ” Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, said the president should “knock this off” and move on. “This is going to erode his ability to govern this country if he does not stop it,” he said on CNN. And several Democratic lawmakers and state election officials said they suspected that Mr. Trump’s allegations were part of a plan by Republicans looking for reasons to justify new restrictions on voting to benefit their party, particularly targeting immigrants and  . “There has been a sustained effort across the country, rooted in similar conspiracies about voter fraud, to make it harder for Americans to vote,” Senator Dianne Feinstein of California said in a statement. “We can’t allow this attack on voting rights to continue, and it’s shameful to see such debunked conspiracy theories emanating from the White House. ” Mr. Padilla, the California secretary of state, said he also worried that Mr. Trump’s repeated allegations about fraud would undermine the confidence that Americans had in the integrity of the voting system. “Stoking fear and concern is undermining people’s faith in our elections,” he said.