In 2008, Donald Trump sold a Palm Beach, Fla. estate for $95 million, making it the most expensive single residential property ever sold in town. Now the property is about to set another record  —   as Palm Beach’s most expensive  . Backhoes and dump trucks have started crushing and carting away the    French provincial home at 515 North County Road, along with an    tennis house, a pool house and a carriage house. While such   have become common in Palm Beach and other   resort towns, the demolition of the   estate known as Maison de l’Amitié, or House of Friendship, represents a new level of disposable wealth. Bought by Mr. Trump in 2004 for $41 million and sold in 2008 to a Russian billionaire for $95 million, the residence has since sat empty, a monument to the housing bubble and to Trump’s outsize salesmanship. The big question now is what will come next for one of Palm Beach’s biggest white elephants and whether its value can ever reach its 2008 record price. According to town planning documents, the owner of the property, a limited liability company linked to the Russian billionaire Dmitry Rybolovlev, plans to split the property into three parcels that will be sold. Last week, the Palm Beach Town Council approved the owner’s proposal to subdivide the property. It’s unclear when the properties will be listed. Brokers say each parcel, at around two acres, would have to sell for $35 million to $40 million for the owner to make a profit. “It’s an aggressive price,” said Gary Pohrer, a real estate agent in Palm Beach. “It’s possible. But it could take a long time. ” The history of the property is filled with financial ups and downs. It was once owned by Robert Dun Douglass, a member of the Dun  Bradstreet family. The property was sold in 1930 to Harrison Williams, an electric utility tycoon said to be one of the richest men in America. After successive owners and building changes, the property was bought in 1988 for $12. 08 million by Abraham Gosman, a Massachusetts nursing home and health care magnate. Mr. Gosman built the current mansion on the property. But after his business faltered and his debts piled up from lavish spending, Mr. Gosman filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy liquidation in 2003. In 2004, as part of the bankruptcy, the property went up for auction. Mr. Trump topped at least two other bidders with an offer of $41. 35 million. After the sale, he told The Palm Beach Daily News that he would turn the estate into the “  house in America,” after his    home down the road. He would then sell it to “create terrific value. ” The extent of Mr. Trump’s improvements after the purchase remain unclear. Mr. Trump initially said he had “gutted the house” and made $25 million in extensive renovations. Yet in the application for demolition, filed in February, the architect for the project said that the 2005 and 2006 renovations were limited to a new kitchen, the creation of new bedrooms and bathrooms, and “some minor interior alterations of doors, frames and windows. ” Mr. Trump put the home on the market in 2006 for $125 million, making it the most expensive listing in America at the time. When no buyers emerged and Mr. Trump replaced several brokers, he trimmed the price to $120 million. In the summer of 2008, just before the real estate market crashed, Mr. Trump found his buyer: Mr. Rybolovlev, a former medical student who took his fertilizer company public in 2007 and later moved to Switzerland and Monaco. He had toured several homes in Palm Beach but hadn’t found what he wanted. “I showed him five big oceanfront homes,” said Carol Digges, a real estate broker representing Mr. Rybolovlev at the time. “But he said, ‘I want something more grand, something bigger. ’” When she showed him Maison de l’Amitié, Mr. Rybolovlev was impressed and eventually negotiated a deal. Mr. Trump maintains he sold the property for $100 million, yet people involved in the deal, as well as the sales deed, put the price at $95 million. At the time, Mr. Rybolovlev said he bought the property as an investment. “This acquisition is simply an investment,” he said in a statement and “does not represent a decision by me to live in the U. S. ” Technically, the buyer was a limited liability company, County Road Property L. L. C. which is controlled by an offshore trust benefiting members of the Rybolovlev family. Mr. Rybolovlev was named in the Panama Papers (the leaked documents that disclosed information on offshore entities of the wealthy) as having used offshore trusts to hold assets, though a spokesman said the trusts were used for “asset protection and estate planning. ” Yet according to Mr. Rybolovlev’s   Elena, Mr. Rybolovlev may have had other reasons to pay a high price for the property and to use offshore trusts. When the limited liability company bought the property, the Rybolovlevs were in the midst of a bitter divorce. Mr. Rybolovlev’s   accused him in a lawsuit of “secreting and transferring assets in order to avoid his obligations,” and she sought half of the Palm Beach house. Mr. Rybolovlev denied the claims, adding that the trusts were created years before the divorce. Last fall, the two reached a settlement and agreed to end all legal actions related to the divorce, including the claims over the Palm Beach property. In the eight years after the purchase, Mr. Rybolovlev quietly entertained offers on the home, according to local brokers, but none met his asking price of more than $125 million. In March, the Palm Beach Architectural Commission approved the demolition of the estate. According to brokers and neighbors, crews have been working daily at the site with an oversize backhoe and bulldozer. The limited liability company has also submitted a request to the town to subdivide the land into three parcels. The proposal calls for the largest lot, at the southern end, to be 2. 35 acres, with the potential to include a house of more than 51, 000 square feet with 10 bedrooms and 12 baths. The other two parcels would be just under two acres, able to accommodate homes of 42, 000 square feet. In Palm Beach, the biggest land prize is ocean frontage. The largest parcel would have 173 linear feet on the water, while the other two would have about 150. To receive the expected asking price, the parcels would have to sell for more than $215, 000 a linear foot of ocean frontage. Brokers say most recent sales of Palm Beach oceanfront went for about $100, 000 to $120, 000 a linear foot. Kenneth Griffin, the hedge fund manager, has spent more than $120 million in Palm Beach to buy and combine four parcels of land, which brokers say worked out to be more than $200, 000 a linear foot. Mr. Rybolovlev’s property is considered among the best on the island  —   close to the town center and with direct access to the beach. Some brokers say it could well top the Griffin price. “I suspect one person will buy all three parcels of land and keep it as one estate,” said Angela Koch, a Palm Beach real estate broker. “All it takes is another Ken Griffin. ”