MIDWAY ATOLL  —   President Obama, taking his campaign to confront climate change to a pristine spit of land in the remote Pacific Ocean, said on Thursday that it was critical to examine the effects of the planet’s warming on the seas and to protect wild areas from degradation caused by human activity. “Part of what we’ve been trying to do is provide some visual aid to understanding what’s happening” with climate change, Mr. Obama said in a brief interview here, looking out over lush vegetation and a lagoon so iridescent it turned the clouds above an otherworldly shade of green. That means “being able to highlight the incredible beauty of a place like this, but also recognizing that if oceans continue to get warmer, that a lot of the marine species here could be affected, and ultimately that’s going to have an impact on human populations,” Mr. Obama said. Mr. Obama traveled to Midway, part of the uninhabited Northwestern Hawaiian Islands, to recognize his expansion last week of Papahanaumokuakea Marine National Monument, the world’s largest protected area and home to more than 7, 000 species of wildlife, some of them endangered and others found nowhere else. The area has millions of tropical sea birds, including rare albatrosses, and it teems with sea life such as endangered whales, sharks and dolphins, as well as   black coral, considered the   marine species. “For us to be able to protect and preserve this national monument, to extend it, and, most importantly, to interact with native Hawaiians and other stakeholders so that the way we protect and manage this facility is consistent with ancient traditions and the best science available, this is going to be a precious resource for generations to come,” Mr. Obama told reporters after touring the 2.   atoll in a golf cart motorcade and receiving a briefing from the Fish and Wildlife Service officials who manage it. Under a blazing hot sun, white terns cruised overhead and dotted the trees, their fuzzy chicks cooling themselves in puddles by the side of the rough path Mr. Obama passed over as he took in the lush landscape. “Spectacular,” the president said as he stood at Turtle Beach, as four endangered green sea turtles rested on white sand nearby, with nothing but cyan waters stretching behind him. “I can’t wait to get in,” added Mr. Obama, who snorkeled off the coast later in the day. The expansion of the marine reserve and Mr. Obama’s trip to the island, named for its location about halfway between Asia and North America, were part of an effort by the president to showcase his commitment to combating climate change and protecting lands and waters that can serve as refuges as the planet increasingly experiences the effects of global warming. After Midway, the president was scheduled to fly to China to discuss climate change. Mr. Obama, nearing the end of his eight years in office, is reaching for lasting symbols of his achievements and seeking opportunities to check items off his   list while he still has the trappings and travel perquisites of the presidency. He is also looking toward life after the presidency, when he said he might have an easier time fostering consensus on the need to confront climate change and mobilizing the public around a bipartisan approach. “My hope is maybe as   I can have a little more influence on some of my Republican friends, who I think, up until now, have been resistant to the science,” Mr. Obama said in the interview. “This is something that all of us are going to have to tackle, and maybe I get a little more of a hearing if I’m not occupying a political office. ” Mr. Obama announced last week that he was vastly expanding the Papahanaumokuakea monument, created by President George W. Bush a decade ago, bringing its size to more than 580, 000 square miles  —   three and a half times the size of California  —   from a little less than 140, 000 square miles. Scientists and environmental groups have cheered the action. But commercial fishing interests have expressed strong opposition, arguing that Mr. Obama has harmed their industry by prohibiting   fishing in vast waters. “We do not believe the expansion is based on the best available scientific information,” Kitty Simonds, executive director of the Western Pacific Regional Fishery Management Council, said in a statement. “It serves a political legacy rather than any conservation benefits. ” Mr. Obama was concerned on Thursday with both. Midway and the surrounding islands and waters are regarded as a climate refuge, a place whose natural characteristics make it more resilient to climate change. “The president has made a very bold statement that the world needs to take more tangible, bold actions to make sure that we’re protecting our ecosystems from climate change,” said Matt Rand, director of the Ocean Legacy Project at the Pew Charitable Trusts. In visiting the island, Mr. Rand added, Mr. Obama was getting “a view into what our oceans and our planet looked like 100 years ago, really before we had significant human degradation in the ecosystem,” when bird life and top predatory fish were abundant and coral was healthy. Mr. Obama is not the first American president to visit the remote island. Richard M. Nixon stopped there in June 1969, at the height of bird breeding season, for five hours of meetings with President Nguyen Van Thieu of South Vietnam, during which the two agreed on plans for the United States to begin withdrawing troops. Mr. Obama visited during a season when most of Midway’s birds have finished breeding and flown out to sea, leaving some of the island’s most fervent protectors feeling that the president was missing out. “Come back” in June 2017, Teya M. Penniman implored Mr. Obama in a message posted on the website of Friends of Midway Atoll. “Even though you won’t be the current president, it will still give you a much better understanding of what you’ve just done,” Ms. Penniman wrote. “The birds, fish, corals, seals, algae, turtles, dolphins and whales thank you. ”