When he accepted the Libertarian Party’s nomination in May, Gary Johnson told delegates that he was ready to peel away votes from the Republican and Democratic candidates, potentially catapulting a party on the fringe of American politics onto the presidential debate stage and, with luck, to the White House. But nearly four months later, Mr. Johnson’s presidential chances appear shaky. The former Republican governor of New Mexico is polling around 10 percent nationally, healthy for a   candidate, but below the 15 percent threshold required to be included in presidential debates. And on Thursday, Mr. Johnson’s credibility suffered a blow when he fumbled over a question about the crisis in Syria, asking an MSNBC commentator, “What is Aleppo?” The challenges facing Mr. Johnson’s bid go beyond a mental   and reflect the deeply entrenched obstacles that   and independent candidates face when running for president. On the surface, the low approval ratings for Hillary Clinton and Donald J. Trump present a prime opportunity for a candidate like Mr. Johnson, who is socially liberal and fiscally conservative. Even so, that intriguing blend of policies has made it difficult for the Libertarian ticket, which includes William F. Weld, the former Republican governor of Massachusetts, to attract stray Democrats or disenchanted Republicans in large numbers. “He’s had issues coalescing the   Republican crowd, partially because it’s a mix of social conservatives and moderates, and partly because at times he’s seemed more keen on appealing to the Bernie bros,” said Tim Miller, a Republican and a former aide to Jeb Bush, referring to the supporters of Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont. Mr. Miller opposes Mr. Trump and is considering voting for the Libertarian ticket this year. Mr. Miller added that Mr. Johnson’s flub about Aleppo did not make him a riskier bet on foreign policy matters than is Mr. Trump. But, he said, it does highlight the problem that many Republicans have with Libertarians. “It reinforces my top policy difference with him, which is his relative isolationism” on foreign affairs, he said. While prominent Republicans often speak highly of Mr. Johnson and Mr. Weld, few big names have come forward to formally endorse him. Mr. Johnson drew criticism from some Republicans last week when he took issue with the expression “illegal immigrant,” and his views on fully legalizing marijuana remain out of step with mainstream politics. Still, Mr. Johnson’s supporters have expressed hope that   sentiment could help propel the Libertarians this year. On social media, many of Mr. Johnson’s backers say they hope that Senator Jeff Flake, the Arizona Republican who has had a public  feud with Mr. Trump, might get behind the Libertarian ticket, but so far they have had no luck converting him. In June, Senator Ben Sasse of Nebraska expressed interest in the Libertarian Party, but later said that Mr. Johnson’s positions on abortion, religious liberty and national security were deal breakers. Mitt Romney, the 2012 Republican nominee who has showered praise on Mr. Weld, pushed publicly this week for the Libertarians to be allowed in the debates. Still, he has given no sign that he will back the party’s ticket in November, even though he has said he will not vote for Mr. Trump or Mrs. Clinton. “The Libertarians just break too much from traditional G. O. P. orthodoxy on foreign policy and social issues to get a big amount of Republican support,” said Kyle D. Kondik of the Center for Politics at the University of Virginia. The Democratic electorate has also failed to provide fertile ground for the Libertarians, despite the lingering disappointment among some who supported Mr. Sanders. Jill Stein, the Green Party nominee, has drawn some Sanders backers, and Mr. Johnson’s position in favor of free trade is out of step with most Democrats these days. Political analysts point to a variety of reasons   candidacies tend to flounder in the United States. A lack of exposure in the news media is often cited, as are political science theories that argue that in a    political system, voters gravitate to two mainstream parties out of fear that they would otherwise be wasting their votes. Many see the debates as the biggest obstacle for   candidates. The Commission on Presidential Debates requires that candidates invited to the three nationally televised presidential debates have an average of at least 15 percent support in five specific national polls. Mr. Johnson has said that he has no chance of winning the election without debating Mr. Trump and Mrs. Clinton, and his supporters argue that the poll threshold is arbitrary and too high. “In the real world, that’s just impossible,” said Richard Winger, an expert on   candidates and the editor of Ballot Access News. “That’s a real barrier. ” Stuart Stevens, a Republican strategist who has worked with Mr. Romney and Mr. Weld, said that difficulties raising money for campaign infrastructure and advertising put the Libertarians at a distinct disadvantage in reaching voters who might gravitate to their message. “Most people don’t know who Gary Johnson is,” said Mr. Stevens, adding that he remained open to voting for the candidate despite his slim chances. “He doesn’t have much of an apparatus to push him. ” Despite the hurdles, Mr. Johnson could still have a major effect on the race. Polls show him appealing to young, educated voters in states like North Carolina who might otherwise support Mrs. Clinton, and disaffected conservatives in places like Utah, where much of the traditionally Republican Mormon population is turned off by Mr. Trump. In a close election, a Libertarian ticket that is drawing   of the vote could reshape the electoral map and tilt battlegrounds in unpredictable directions. A Quinnipiac University survey released on Thursday showed Mr. Johnson pulling a big chunk of the vote in Ohio, highlighting the influence that he might have. “Gary Johnson could decide the presidential election in the Buckeye State,” said Peter A. Brown, assistant director of the Quinnipiac University poll. “He is getting 14 percent from Ohio voters, and how that cohort eventually votes could be critical in this swing state  —   and in the nation. ”