If you live in a household like mine  —   one with a nonverbal child  —   you’re anticipating one television show above all others this fall: “Speechless,” which begins Sept. 21 on ABC. A   series on a major network about “us”? It’s occasion for excitement, and for reflection. What, exactly, do we who live in the “Speechless” universe hope this series will accomplish? “Speechless” is a classic domestic comedy  —   yes, a comedy  —   centered on a    named JJ DiMeo who has cerebral palsy, can’t speak and uses an   device to express himself. He’s the eldest of three children, and he’s played by Micah Fowler, who himself has cerebral palsy, a casting decision that alone makes this series stand out. Minnie Driver portrays his mother, Maya, who like a lot of parents of children with disabilities sometimes turns into a      warrior for her son. JJ has two siblings (Mason Cook and Kyla Kenedy) whose own needs tend to get overlooked, a common thing in such households. John Ross Bowie plays the father, Jimmy, who struggles to keep Maya from sailing off the edge. When ABC picked up this show last spring, word spread quickly through the chat rooms and Facebook pages where nonverbal people and their parents hang out. The YouTube trailer has had about 1. 5 million views. I watched the pilot episode over the summer at Camp Communicate in Maine, which is for children who use   devices. Staff members and campers watching with me agreed: Whoever’s behind this show “gets it. ” There’s a reason for that: The show’s creator, Scott Silveri, grew up in a home much like the one in “Speechless,” with a nonverbal brother with cerebral palsy and other health issues. “It’s a story that I’ve been wanting to tell as long as I’ve been writing,” said Mr. Silveri, who has written and been a producer for “Friends” and other shows. “Not so much focused on doing a story about disability I was really interested in doing a family show and exploring how one family member with a disability affects everybody else and turns them into the specific kind of weirdos that they become. ” It is largely unexplored territory. For decades, enduring TV characters with a disability were rare. Name one from the medium’s first 50 years. “Ironside,” says practically everyone. Name five more? Not so easy. When such characters did turn up, they were frequently used as objects of pity or as catalysts that allowed   characters to learn an obvious lesson or feel better about themselves. Making matters worse was that often,   actors would tackle these roles with embarrassing gusto. People who saw Rosie O’Donnell playing a mentally challenged woman in the 2005 TV movie “Riding the Bus With My Sister” still haven’t stopped cringing. Things have improved in recent years. Characters with disabilities are still underrepresented on TV (the Census Bureau says one in five Americans have a disability, with half of those describing the condition as severe) but credible ones have been built into “The Wire,” “Switched at Birth,” “Legit,” “Breaking Bad” and more. Yet here is a blunt truth: Some disabilities are more telegenic than others. Who doesn’t love a high school kid singing in perfect harmony and   to “Proud Mary”? Sure, Artie of “Glee” was a delight. Now take away his singing ability and his wheelchair dexterity and make him able to communicate only by laboriously aiming a   laser pointer at a communication board. That’s JJ. That is a difficult character to make appealing, and putting him in network prime time in a central role is as bold, in its way, as television’s first single mother or black lead or transgender story line was. A   ago, ABC took a similar risk with “Life Goes On,” about a family with a Down syndrome child, a role played by Chris Burke, who has Down syndrome. That show, though, was a drama, which is what “outsiders” might expect: Disability equals struggle equals nothing but pain and misery. We “insiders” hate that. Yes, having a serious disability or caring for someone who does is hard, but hardship doesn’t define that life. Just the other day, I laughed a couple of times, and so did my daughter, who has Rett syndrome. Mr. Silveri said the No. 1 reaction he has had from “inside” families when they hear about the show has been, “Please tell me it’s a comedy. ” The casting of an actor with a disability has caused its own buzz, but Mr. Fowler won’t merely be playing himself. He has a milder form of cerebral palsy than his character (he can speak, for instance) and had to study up on how JJ would move and use his device. Could an actor without a disability have done the same as credibly? For Mr. Fowler, there’s no question. “Living every day with the challenges of a disability allows me to bring a rawness to the character and bring him to life with my unique perspectives,” he said in an email interview. If actors with special needs will be pulling for the show, so will a lot of parents of children with disabilities. Ms. Driver is keenly aware of carrying those hopes. “It gives me goose bumps thinking that,” she said. “To actually represent a body of people whose story hasn’t been told  —   that’s very gratifying. ” Though I’ve been writing as “us,” one thing you learn quickly when you have a child with a disability is that there is no “disability community” the opinions, aspirations and beliefs within that world are as wildly divergent as in the population at large. So I won’t presume to say what “we” want “Speechless” to accomplish only what I’d like. I hope it gives another, especially hard, kick to the door that has made characters and actors with disabilities so scarce on TV. And I hope it helps break down the sense of isolation that envelops families like the DiMeos. Many people still either stare or look away when they see someone like JJ. I don’t expect that those reactions will ever disappear. Maybe “Speechless” will make them a little less common.