The complex and brutal conflict in Syria has defied the best efforts of peace negotiators and humanitarian officials for more than five years, but a new group of luminaries is weighing in on a war that has cost hundreds of thousands of lives: celebrities. More than two dozen actors, singers and other prominent people have signed a petition urging the Nobel Prize committee to award its 2016 Peace Prize to a group of volunteer rescue workers toiling in cities across the   country. The move draws attention to both the horror of the conflict and the growing willingness of   Americans to adopt it as a cause célèbre. The White Helmets, also known as the Syria Civil Defense, are a group of volunteer emergency workers who rush to the scene of airstrikes in civilian areas of cities like Aleppo, which was once the country’s largest but is now divided between rebel groups and the regime of President Bashar  . His central government has rained bombs on citizens for years, and the White Helmets say they have pulled more than 60, 000 people alive from the rubble. The petition may have no impact on who gets the Nobel Peace Prize, which will be awarded on Oct. 7. But its organizer, an advocacy group called the Syria Campaign, said it was hopeful that the celebrities’ endorsement of the rescue workers, as well as an upcoming Netflix documentary about them, were signals of growing concern for the plight of Syrian civilians, who they say have often been overshadowed in the West by concerns about refugees and the Islamic State. Raed Saleh, the leader of the White Helmets, said in a statement that it was a “huge morale boost”to see increased international support for their work, especially from people they recognized from the movies. The signatories include George Clooney, Ben Affleck, Daniel Craig, Justin Timberlake, Aziz Ansari and Zoe Saldana. “For international stars to stand next to the White Helmets’ humanitarian cause gives a morale boost for all people doing this work,” Mr. Saleh said. ”We deeply appreciate this support and remain determined to rescue as many souls as possible and create the opportunity for peace. This is our mission. ” Syria is far from the first conflict to attract celebrity attention, and stars like Angelina Jolie and Mr. Affleck have devoted considerable time to touring war zones and raising money for relief efforts. So why has it taken more than five years for celebrities to adopt Syria as a cause? One reason may be the complicated nature of the conflict, which has involved hundreds of rebel groups, including some linked to Al Qaeda, and has set the stage for the rise of the Islamic State, analysts said. It has confounded policy makers, so movie stars and pop singers can hardly be expected to have done any better. “For years people have been confused by the perceived complexity of the Syria conflict and have continually asked, ‘Who are the good guys?’ ” said Anna Nolan, the director of the Syria Campaign. The announcement that Netflix would produce a documentary about the White Helmets, and the drive to award them the Nobel Peace Prize, answered that question for public figures who wanted to get involved. “The White Helmets are probably one of the most inspiring stories that has come out of the Syrian conflict, so it is a very easy group to endorse and stand behind because they are real life heroes on the ground,” said Lina Sergie Attar, a writer who founded a humanitarian organization that works with refugees on the   border. Celebrity activism has sometimes been controversial, but Ms. Attar said she was glad to see famous people support a local organization addressing “the heart of the problem. ” “We’ve seen celebrities go to refugee camps, but I’ve always watched that and thought they were engaging with refugees as if they’re divorced from the political and military circumstances that created the refugee crisis itself,” said Ms. Attar. ”That was very frustrating to watch. ” Kassem Eid is a Syrian asylum seeker in Germany who spent two years touring the United States with the   Council campaigning for the United States to act against the Assad regime. The experience left him deeply cynical about American policy makers. But he said he believed in the work of the White Helmets, and thought that actors, writers and singers could perhaps do some good. “I have more faith in the devil than in politicians,” he said. “But movie stars and celebrities don’t have elections to win, so they can say whatever they want or whatever they believe is right. ”