And so to Friday, the end of the working week for some but not for the nomads of the fashion tribe, who have just reached the halfway point of a frenzied Milan schedule. Here’s what’s on for today: • This season, Giorgio Armani will show the Emporio Armani spring 2017 collection in Paris, so he has bumped his main label (usually the closing show of Milan) into an earlier slot. Expect plenty of Mr. Armani’s signature tailoring, and gushing Italians in the audience breaking into applause at the sight of the evening wear. One thing no longer on the catwalk? Fur, after Mr. Armani pledged to go 100 percent fur free after fall 2016. • Season in and season out, Etro offers up bohemian prints on gorgeous billowing fabrics. But before the show, the company also offers up the most delicious lunchtime snacks for the hungry hordes, not to mention pretty printed cushions to sit on, cushions that can then be taken away. It’s a winning combination. • The king of color, Marco de Vincenzo, who spent 13 years at Fendi before introducing his own label and gaining backing from LVMH in 2014, is often touted as one of Italy’s most promising emerging talents (which, given that he’s knocking on 40, can occasionally feel a little ridiculous). His shows tend to excite and delight he’s a man who knows his way around a rainbow. • As evening falls, it will be time for Versace, where no doubt Donatella will dish out her usual dose of barely there    on some of the starriest models of the moment. Log on to the NYT Styles Facebook page we’ll be backstage and on Facebook Live with the beauty doyenne Pat McGrath   before peeking at the latest beauty looks for the season. • Accessories labels staging catwalk shows appears to be a big trend of the season. The latest to jump onto the bandwagon is Sergio Rossi. The company is staging   performances at the Teatro Gerolamo, putting the latest collection in the spotlight. Across town, hotfoot it to the   shoe guru Gianvito Rossi’s   party for a glass of prosecco or three. In the real world, it is Friday, after all. And in case you missed it: • Rebelling Against   at Fendi and Roberto Cavalli. Our reviewer weighs in. • In the Studio With Silvia Fendi • The   Wild Ride of Supermodel Naomi Campbell Isn’t Slowing Down • Rankin, and Fashion, Take to the Milan Streets • At Philipp Plein: Fergie Down the Rabbit Hole