There’s a forgotten scene in the third season of “The Sopranos” when the wives of the show’s mob crew, sitting inside a local Italian restaurant, turn to the delicate subject of Hillary Clinton, Monica Lewinsky, infidelity and marriage. It’s 2001 and Mrs. Clinton is headed to the Senate. The women assembled around the table, all of whom know their husbands are unfaithful, are simultaneously disgusted by Mrs. Clinton and in awe of her. “I can’t stand that woman,” says Angie Bonpensiero. “I don’t know,” says Rosalie Aprile. “Maybe we could all take a page from her book. ” It’s left to the boss’s wife, Carmela Soprano to sort through her own messy emotions. She veers from instinctive revulsion (“to be humiliated in public then walk around smiling all the time”) to grudging admiration for how a woman not unlike herself, overshadowed by a cheating spouse, has emerged as powerful, independent figure in her own right. “She’s a role model for all of us,” Mrs. Soprano says on second thought, as the wives nod in agreement. In the latest episode of The   we examine a potent electoral force we rarely talk about when we talk about the campaign: pop culture. Both Mrs. Clinton and Donald J. Trump are   stars in their own right, who have spawned  —   and inspired  —   television characters and shows from “The Apprentice” (Mr. Trump) to the “The Good Wife” (Mrs. Clinton). We talk to the chief television critic at The New York Times, James Poniewozik, about how television and film characters past and present inform our views of both candidates  —   or have been created in the candidates’ images. “They are both characters in pop culture, characters in mass media, whose stories we have literally been hearing for decades,” Mr. Poniewozik says of the candidates. “Usually in an election, there’s some narrative of some new character you haven’t encountered before: Barack Obama in 2008, George W. Bush in 2000. Here, it’s two   American television serials having a crossover episode. ” So if this   campaign is a crossover television event, how would Mr. Poniewozik, as a TV critic, review the show? “I think the writers have really taken it over the top. It’s like watching ‘Scandal’ in its eighth season where you just feel that they have exhausted every possible trick and they’re emptying their notebooks at you. ” Would you commit to another season? “I think I’d like to see it recast. ” And we chat with Susan Dominus, of The Times Magazine, about the surprising ways that gender is playing out in pop cultural depictions of Mr. Trump and Mrs. Clinton in this campaign, a topic she is studying closely this year. “If we are going to extend gender stereotypes all the way to their worst place, it’s celebrity, lightweight  —   that reads as in some ways feminine and inconsequential or not perceived as a real threat,” Ms. Dominus says. And in that sense, Mr. Trump, in some ways, is the more feminized figure. “For all of his bluster, when was the last time that people were this obsessed with a candidate’s hair?” Ms. Dominus asks. “It was Hillary in 2008!” From a desktop or laptop, you can listen by pressing play on the button above. Or if you’re on a mobile device, the instructions below will help you find and subscribe to the series. On your iPhone or iPad: 1. Open your podcast app. It’s a   app called “Podcasts” with a purple icon. (This link may help.) 2. Search for the series. Tap on the “search” magnifying glass icon at the bottom of the screen, type in “The  ” and select it from the list of results. 3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, tap on the “subscribe” button to have new episodes sent to your phone free. You may want to adjust your notifications to be alerted when a new episode arrives. 4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before deciding to subscribe, tap on the episode title from the list on the series page. If you have an internet connection, you’ll be able to stream the episode. On your Android phone or tablet: 1. Open your podcast app. It’s a   app called “Play Music” with an    icon. (This link may help.) 2. Search for the series. Click on the magnifying glass icon at the top of the screen, search for the name of the series and select it from the list of results. You may have to scroll down to find the “Podcasts” search results. 3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, click on the word “subscribe” to have new episodes sent to your phone free. 4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before deciding to subscribe, click on the episode title from the list on the series page. If you have an internet connection, you’ll be able to stream the episode.