By the time Donald Glover puzzled Hollywood’s finest by thanking Migos, the trendsetting Atlanta rap trio, during his Golden Globes acceptance speech this month, the group had already locked up its first No. 1 hit on the Billboard chart. Not that you would have known it by the behavior of the music industry’s mainstream gatekeepers. While “Bad and Boujee,” which Mr. Glover, the star and creator of “Atlanta” on FX, unexpectedly called “the best song   …     ever” onstage, had been building in clubs and online since its August release, it had only recently reached radio and was far from the   of other more anodyne (and, notably, whiter) streaming smashes. For weeks, as the song turned into a sensation through a torrent of internet memes and listens on YouTube and Spotify (with now more than 250 million combined streams) representatives for Migos had been trying to book the roguish group  —   made up of the rappers Quavo, Offset and Takeoff  —   a performance on   television, a rite of passage for rising acts. They were repeatedly brushed off. “They gave all kinds of excuses  —   not the right time, it’s not this, it’s not that,” recalled Pierre Thomas, better known as Pee, the chief executive of Quality Control Music, Migos’s label. “But as soon as Donald Glover did that, the next day, all the people who had just denied us wanted them on their show. ” The very next week, Migos took “Bad and Boujee” to “Jimmy Kimmel Live!” Battling fickle tastes has been a constant for Migos since the trio stormed the   firmament in 2013, bringing a Gucci bag full of flashy new tricks, including their trademark stuttering,   triplet flow and an endless series of sticky catchphrases,   and vocal tics (“Grrr,” “That way! ”). But those who start trends don’t always reap the rewards. “Versace,” the group’s breakout song, was lifted, but then eclipsed, by Drake’s faithful remix, while “dabbing,” once Migos lingo, morphed into a   dance craze. As repeated arrests sidelined Migos’s members at crucial moments, like the   to their debut album, “Yung Rich Nation”  —   a commercial flop in 2015, selling just 15, 000 copies its first week  —   the group risked becoming another casualty of rap’s      culture, where younger viral artists are always bubbling, especially in Atlanta. With a refined strategy for harnessing the rise of streaming, where young listeners flock to rap, Migos is now zooming at an even higher level. With the release of its second album, “Culture,” out digitally on Friday, the trio focused its exuberant songwriting. It is choosing more airy, ornate trap beats and taming its staccato verbal onslaught to make better use of empty space, while tending to both its online and      boosters. In New York this week, Takeoff, 22, the group’s most reserved member, compared the album   to Christmas Eve, his sleepy eyes lighting up. “You just know that everything you asked for is going to be there up under that Christmas tree,” he said. “It’s our time now. ” Migos’s de facto leader, Quavo, 25, is its most alluring presence and a melodic songwriter. He was defiant about the group’s sometimes samey or excessive output, which has included more than a dozen free online mixtapes since 2011. “We’re doing the same thing we’ve been doing, making the same music,” he said “I feel like the world just caught up. ” The group’s business team is more realistic  —   and, by necessity, more strategic. “Truth be told, we did have a minor setback for a major comeback,” Kevin Lee, the Quality Control executive known as Coach K, said. After a rocky 2015, which, amid legal issues, still included the release of five   Migos projects with middling effect, 2016 was about slowing down and spreading out. Though Migos released just one official mixtape last year, its members appeared as guests on an unfathomable number of tracks by other artists, pop and street, expanding their sonic palette and fans’ understanding of their individual attributes. “I applaud them in stretching their tentacles and bringing it back to the nucleus,” said Kevin Liles, the veteran   executive whose label, 300 Entertainment, distributes Migos’s music in partnership with Quality Control. “That only made the nucleus stronger. ” Coach K said that Quavo’s blistering solo run, especially  —   honored in the hourlong D. J. mix “Featuring Quavo”  —   motivated Offset and Takeoff, adding, “Once it all came back together, it was an explosion. ” It’s fitting, then, that the group’s crowning achievement thus far was started by Offset  —   who spent two monthslong stints in jail on weapons charges and probation violations during Migos’s rise  —   one night while he was home alone. After creating the “  top” hook for “Bad and Boujee” that would go on to fuel endless Twitter chatter,  he sent it to the team for completion, certain it could be a hit. The Platonic ideal of a Migos song, the track mixes sensational    talk with an overriding sense of personal uplift. “Some opportunities were probably lost because of my situation, but I was fortunate to have brothers that could keep the train moving,” Offset, 25, said. “This song is like a rebirth. ” Migos’s labels put “Bad and Boujee” in the best position to succeed with a few deliberate distribution tweaks, giving it its premiere only on SoundCloud  —   “where the kids live,” Coach K said  —   to build buzz, and timing its wider release to Labor Day weekend, when rap radio relies on D. J. mix shows instead of more fixed playlists, leaving the door open for emerging sounds. (The next single, “” was released with similar precision, first with a majestic, arctic video, and then the official audio ahead of Martin Luther King’s Birthday.) Quality Control also sent Migos back to basics  —   working the Atlanta strip club scene  —   to build momentum and “get the vibe of the people,” Pee said. “When you see girls on that stage singing the words, you know you got a hit on your hands. ” Migos’s zealous army of online supporters (see the earlier “better than the Beatles” meme) also did its part, disseminating everything from an impromptu jingle for potato chips to a clip of the group performing “Bad and Boujee” live in Nigeria. Crucially, there has never been a dearth of Migos content to spread, even during seemingly fallow periods, thanks to the group’s commitment to creating constantly. In Manhattan on Tuesday, the trio had about three hours of downtime in between promotional obligations, but as the members pulled up to their Times Square hotel, they noted that the famed   recording space Quad Studios was just across the street. There was little discussion before a decision was reached. (When the group’s handlers called me to find out where the rappers were, a member of Migos’s inner circle grabbed the phone to hang up.) “Wake up,” Quavo said. “Time to work. ” Once inside, after some finagling, the group rolled weed and ate pepperoni pizzas as its recording engineer, who travels with the trio, set up. Alone in front of the microwave, Takeoff counted comically large stacks of money as Quavo changed into a fuzzy pair of “lucky studio socks. ” “What’s the point of going to sit at the hotel?” he said before entering the vocal booth. Four hours later, a   new song was done, but then Migos was late to a listening party for its own album. The rappers had been too busy making more music, refusing to leave the studio until all three had finished their verses.