The departure board at Pennsylvania Station in Manhattan has departed this life, but unlike Elvis, it has not left the building. Amtrak disconnected the board on Monday, stretching tarpaulins over one side of the familiar,   sign that told commuters whether the 5:54 to Metuchen, N. J. would be a touch late  —   and, when the time finally came, which track they could find it on. The other side of the board was left uncovered, a big, black, blank rectangle. Amtrak had said the departure board’s demise would begin around 10 p. m. on Monday, after the evening rush. For once, Amtrak was early. By the time commuters arrived at 6 p. m. the board was off, compounding the aggravation of a bad night caused by heavy winds and rain. Some commuters wondered if the   board was related to the delays on New Jersey Transit, which shares Penn Station with Amtrak and the Long Island Rail Road. An Amtrak spokeswoman, Kimberly Woods, said it was not. She said the board was turned off for testing and restarted before the final shutdown after 10. As early as 3:37 p. m. New Jersey Transit had warned on Twitter that there would be “major delays” because a storm had knocked down power lines in Linden, N. J. Trains from Trenton to Metropark, a major station, were suspended for about 30 minutes during the evening rush, but the delays continued even after service resumed. The old board was replaced by video monitors that have been functioning for several months. There are large monitors at both ends of the main waiting area on the west side of the station and smaller ones above the gates. Another large monitor is in the rotundalike space on the east side of the station, where there is also an arrivals monitor. Ms. Woods said Amtrak made the change in “our ongoing effort to improve and upgrade the passenger experience. ” “It’s like anything else  —   modern times, and everything’s digital,” said H. Edward Wilkin III, an accountant who was on the way to Secaucus, N. J. on Tuesday morning. But the trains were no more modern. Mr. Wilkin had a noon appointment. The new departure screen reported that his 11:06 train would be delayed. For how long, it did not say. Some commuters said the change made no difference, because the old board had little to do with the reality of when trains actually pulled away from the station, and they doubted the new screens would be any more accurate. Amtrak said the old board would be dismantled over the next few nights, when crowds in the station were thinnest. “I’ve been taking these trains since I was 18, going to college,” said Joe Castaldo, 63, who grew up in Oceanport, N. J. and now runs a   firm in Manhattan. “I’m sad the board is gone. It’s nostalgic, I know. ” He said the new screens were better, but the change was jarring for his mother, whom he had just put on a train. “She was like, ‘What am I going to do now? ’” Mr. Castaldo said. The old board was a centerpiece, the thing that brought a community together  —   a community of strangers about to be on a train. The board on the west side of the station was the heart of the waiting area  —   the town square, such as it was. A town square with linoleum underfoot, not grass, and fluorescent lighting above, not a Norman Rockwell sky. Like something from the days when newspapers hung bulletins outside their offices, the board told stories  —   and like Twitter, it told them in a minimum of characters, with few full sentences. Explanations were not always provided for “Delayed” or “Standby. ” The departure board that was disconnected on Monday was not the one many thought it was. It was not the one made by the Italian company Solari that whirred and clicked like the boards on television game shows in the 1960s. That sign was replaced about 15 years ago by the device that went dark on Monday, which had become too difficult to keep going, Amtrak said last summer. “That one can only do letters and numbers and columns,” said Kevin Farley, a digital experience strategist who was on his way to Philadelphia on Tuesday. “It was a classic design. ” Then, nodding toward one of the new electronic screens, he added: “This is still a little  . We’d like to know: Is the wind going to affect us? They could do little messages like that. ” At the other end of the waiting area, Ritu Narula, a lawyer heading to Washington, complained about legibility. “You can’t see the track number as easily” on the new screens, she said. “But we’ll get used to it. ” Did the new screens make the wait more pleasant or the lines shorter? Some remembered the architect Vincent J. Scully Jr. ’s famous line about the old Penn Station, demolished in the 1960s, as compared with the present one: “One entered the city like a god one scuttles in now like a rat. ” “I always feel like a rodent in there, getting from Point A to Point B,” Lorraine B. Diehl, the author of “The Late, Great Pennsylvania Station,” said from her apartment on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. As for the departure screens, she said, “I can’t pretend it’s something I care about. ” “To me, the bigger picture has to be addressed,” she said. “We need a new station. ”