• Hurricane Matthew, a deadly storm with maximum sustained winds of more than 110 miles per hour, was forecast to start inflicting significant rain and wind damage in southern Florida beginning late Thursday, and in Georgia by late Friday, with the storm expected to strengthen to Category 4 from Category 3 as it approaches Florida. Coverage continues here &gt&gt • “Hurricane conditions” are expected in much of the Bahamas Lake Okeechobee, Fla. and a long coastal stretch of the United States that includes Fort Lauderdale, Boca Raton, West Palm Beach and St. Augustine in Florida, and Jekyll Island off Georgia, the National Hurricane Center announced at 5 a. m. The eye of the storm was expected to pass near Grand Bahama Island late Thursday and move “very close to the east coast of the Florida peninsula” Thursday evening through Friday night. • The governors of Florida, Georgia, South Carolina and North Carolina declared emergencies, and more than 7, 800 National Guard soldiers were activated or placed on alert. • New York Times journalists assigned to cover the storm include Azam Ahmed, Mexico City bureau chief Lizette Alvarez in Port St. Lucie, Fla. Nick Madigan in Miami Frances Robles in Cocoa Beach, Fla. Les Neuhaus in Jacksonville, Fla. Alan Blinder in Atlanta Richard Fausset in Charleston, S. C. and Jess Bidgood in Wilmington, N. C. Gov. Rick Scott warned Floridians that the storm was expected to skim the state’s Atlantic coastline so closely that a direct hit could not be ruled out. “We have to be prepared to be hit by a catastrophic hurricane,” he warned at a news briefing at the state’s Emergency Operations Center in Tallahassee Wednesday morning. Hurricane Matthew, he said, was packing enough strength to cause the kind of “massive destruction we haven’t seen in years. ” A hurricane warning was in effect for nearly 260 miles along the Interstate 95 corridor from the northern edge of   County to the Daytona Beach area. Mr. Scott urged residents to drive inland. “It could be the biggest evacuation ever,” he said. Mandatory evacuations for the barrier islands in the hurricane warning areas were to begin Thursday at 8 a. m. The governor also pleaded with residents to start leaving early, before traffic backs up. “We have less than 24 hours left to prepare, evacuate and shelter,” he said. “Having a plan in place would be the difference of life and death. ” Up and down the coast, Florida residents raced to make final preparations. Lines at gas stations stretched far beyond the pumps. Supermarkets were depleted of bottled water, bread and canned goods as people waited patiently to pay up and get out. Planters and lawn furniture were being hustled inside. Flashlights were put within easy reach, and windows and glass doors were shielded by dusty hurricane shutters. Students, most of them too young to remember the danger of powerful hurricanes, celebrated the announcement that schools would close from along coastal counties from Miami to Jacksonville on Thursday and Friday.  —   LIZETTE ALVAREZ Jami Baker, 29, a Florida native who lives in a   apartment in Miami’s Brickell neighborhood, a few blocks from the waters of Biscayne Bay, spent part of Wednesday stocking up on water, wine and crackers. “Everyone is in serious prep mode,” she said. Ms. Baker’s mother is 60 years old and her father is a decade older. “I’m concerned about my parents, who are in Boca Raton, where they’ll be getting the storm much worse,” she said. “I’ll be a nervous wreck if cell service goes out and I can’t reach them. ” Ms. Baker, a public relations executive, said she had two other concerns: losing electrical power, and the fact that in her neighborhood, several   building projects are underway. “I’m surrounded by cranes and construction materials that are seemingly loose. I’m sure these construction firms have storm protocol, but it’s been a while since we had a major storm. ”  —   NICK MADIGAN Even people not directly in the storm’s path can be badly affected by its intensity, said Leanne Tellam, a    resident of Palmetto Bay, a Miami suburb, who went through Hurricane Andrew in 1992 and what she called the “trifecta” of storms in 2005. “Hurricane Matthew does pose a tremendous threat to the entire east coast of Florida,” she said, “if not from direct winds or storm surge, then from the psychological factors at play that cause rational people to clear shelves of bottled water in areas where the tap water is safe to drink, or to empty out gas stations. The balance of being prepared and being rational are blurred when you have a storm this big. ” Ms. Tellam, who moved to Miami from New Jersey with her parents when she was 2, tends to take such storms somewhat in stride. “I have learned that I have enough in my house to withstand the loss of power for up to five days,” said Ms. Tellam, who lives with her husband, Douglas, their three children and two dogs. “I’ve spent a great deal of time in the Bahamas and am really worried about what the storm surge and waves will do to my friends on the   places where there is no high ground when facing a storm like this,” she said. —   NICK MADIGAN Gov. Nikki R. Haley urged people to evacuate Charleston, the state’s   city, as the hurricane threatened millions of people along the East Coast. She said that the evacuation of Charleston and part of its surrounding area would begin at 3 p. m. Wednesday, and that the authorities would reverse eastbound lanes on Interstate 26. Other areas of the South Carolina coast will be evacuated on Thursday morning, the governor said. “For those of you that are wondering whether you should leave or not, I again will tell you that if you do not leave, you are putting a law enforcement officer or a National Guardsman’s life on the line when they have to go back and get you,” Ms. Haley said, She estimated that the evacuation would affect about 250, 000 residents and countless tourists.  —   ALAN BLINDER On Wednesday afternoon, the Walmart in North Charleston, S. C. was a predictable hive of commerce, of necessities purchased by the case. By 1:30 p. m. the water was almost all gone. There would be diapers enough for only a few babies more. The sound system played “A Horse With No Name. ” Shoppers and their carts jostled in the food aisles. Maynard Terry, 40, had five cases of bottled water in a cart, along with his girlfriend’s    daughter. Mr. Terry said they could not leave town, because his girlfriend’s elderly grandmother refused. And someone needed to care for her. “She’s in poor health and she’s stubborn and she don’t want to go,” he said. He smiled, and said they were going to make the most of it. Soon everything would be closed. Soon there would be no distraction but the storm. “We’re just going to chill,” he said. “It’s going to be family time. ”  —   RICHARD FAUSSET Hundreds of yellow public school buses snaked around the massive complex housing the North Charleston Coliseum and the Charleston Area Convention Center in this suburb of South Carolina’s   city, preparing to haul the elderly, the poor and those without cars  —   or without a friend to drive them  —   away from the Lowcountry before Hurricane Matthew struck. The buses were to leave at 3 p. m. and take the evacuees to Greenville, S. C. Jacqueline Holmes and her husband, Andrew, both 54, had come three hours early, with bags full of chips, water, deodorant and flushable wipes. Ms. Holmes’s previous trips to the coliseum were for leisure. She saw Barry White in concert here, and Luther Vandross, and LL Cool J. In 1989, she also saw Hurricane Hugo lay waste to large parts of the Charleston area. She rode out that infamous storm in her parents’ house. “It was the most terriblest thing I ever saw,” Ms. Holmes said, as she walked along the asphalt toward a staging area in front of the convention center. Ms. Holmes, who speaks with the almost Caribbean Gullah lilt that distinguishes the speech of many   here, recalled, as if it were yesterday, the quiet before Hurricane Hugo hit, and the moment when the silence was shattered by a violent roar that sounded like a freight train coming. She remembers the trees yanked up along with their roots, strewn around her parents’ yard.  —   RICHARD FAUSSET President Obama urged people in coastal states to prepare. “We anticipate that not only is there still a chance that the core of the storm strikes Florida and some of the states further north, but even if you don’t get the full force of the hurricane, we are still going to be seeing tropical force winds, the potential for a storm surge,” Mr. Obama said Wednesday morning at the headquarters of the Federal Emergency Management Agency. “And all of that could have a devastating effect. ” The president, who postponed a Wednesday visit to Florida as the storm’s path became clearer, said residents should be ready to flee with little warning. “Now is the time for you to prepare in the event that you have to evacuate,” Mr. Obama said. Even if residents are not ordered to leave, he said, “it still makes sense for you to figure out what kind of plan do you have, what kind of preparations and supplies do you have. ”  —   ALAN BLINDER In North Carolina, officials ordered the evacuation of Ocracoke Island, a popular destination for tourists in the Outer Banks. The storm is set to press through the Bahamas on Thursday, slowly passing over a large part of the islands with violent wind and rain, in addition to storm surges. It is expected to strike as a Category 3 hurricane, bringing a potential for   to   surge in water and more than a foot of rain, a combination that could lead to heavy flooding. “Over the coming hours, days, weeks and months, if the forecasts are correct, Hurricane Matthew may well become a defining event in our country’s history,” Prime Minister Perry Christie said. “It is rare that the whole country will have been impacted so directly by a storm of such magnitude and severity. ” Infrastructure in the Bahamas, thanks to the heavy tourism industry, is likely to fare better than that of Haiti and Eastern Cuba, where the storm devastated stretches of the island, leaving massive flooding or piles of rubble in its wake. Hotels and other structures are better equipped, in many cases, to withstand the battering of wind and rain. All the same, the State Department has issued travel warnings asking travelers to avoid visiting the Bahamas as well as Turks and Caicos.  —   AZAM AHMED Initial reports from the government of Haiti said that five people there had been killed, 10 people had been injured and one person was missing. The storm pummeled the southern coast on Tuesday, destroying homes and crops, sweeping away livestock and cutting off transportation as a large part of the Caribbean was pummeled by     winds and torrential rain. The top United Nations official in Haiti, Mourad Wahba, described the storm as “the largest humanitarian event” in the country of 11 million since a devastating earthquake six years ago, with thousands scrambling for shelter. Haiti’s civil protection agency said a bridge collapse had severed the main highway connecting the south with    the capital. Interior Minister François Anick Joseph said Tuesday night that 14, 530 people had been evacuated and that about 2, 200 homes were flooded or destroyed. As of Wednesday morning, the storm, which was downgraded to Category 3, from Category 4, had passed through Cuba, and the National Hurricane Center in Miami warned that a dangerous surge was beginning to spread over the Bahamas, to the north.  —   AZAM AHMED John Schwartz, a New York Times reporter who covers climate change and the environment, is answering reader questions about the storm. John rode out his first hurricane, Carla, in his hometown, Galveston, Tex. at the age of 4. He has covered the aftermath of Katrina, as well as other storms for The Times.  Ask your hurricane questions here.  When was the last big storm to hit Florida, and how does this compare? If Matthew hits Florida directly, it will be the first major hurricane to do so since Wilma in 2005, which caused damage estimated at $21 billion. How will Matthew compare? As the National Hurricane Center put it Thursday evening, “When a hurricane is forecast to take a track roughly parallel to a coastline, as Matthew is forecast to do from Florida through South Carolina, it becomes very difficult to estimate impacts this far in advance. ” But Florida, especially, has been warned to batten down, and much of the East Coast is preparing for powerful winds and storm surge as well as torrential rain. Hi, John. Is it safe to visit my mother in Chestertown, Md.? Will we have a problem finding gasoline? Will the roads be blocked with displaced people, flooding and debris?  —   Dan Wyatt Dan, I’ve heard of no evacuation order there yet, and with the storm likely to be turning to the east in the next few days, the risk to the town could be diminishing. But hurricanes often spread well beyond the edges of the cone, and so your mother could expect high winds, a ton of rain to deal with, and the usual run on supplies. If you do go, it’s a good idea to fill the gas tank before you head out. And keep an eye on the storm predictions from the National Hurricane Center. You can register to receive Kent County, Md. evacuation alerts and other emergency messages here. I live in Jacksonville, N. C. Should we be looking to evacuate anytime soon?  —   Jamelia Hello, Jamelia! The risk to coastal towns in North Carolina has lessened a bit in the October 5   forecast released at 2 p. m. which you can see here: As you can see, the National Hurricane Center is suggesting that a few days from now the storm will take a sharp turn to the east, which could still mean Jacksonville would avoid a direct hit but could still feel effects of storm surge and heavy rains. Your best bet is to look to local authorities for alerts about whether or not to evacuate. At the same time, it’s a good time to sit down and figure out what your evacuation plan would be, if necessary  —   know the local hurricane evacuation routes, and figure out where you’ll go while waiting for the storm to pass. And if a call for evacuation does come, take it seriously. Here’s a great page from Ready. gov with good advice about how to prepare for evacuation. The maps appear to show prediction that the hurricane will make a radical turn to the right, to the east, out to sea. Why is that predicted? Are probabilities given that instead it may follow a more common path up the coast?  —   Dick Purcell There are a number of factors at play here, Dick, including potential interactions with Tropical Storm Nicole over the weekend. A meteorologist, Ryan Maue, put out a lovely tweet earlier today showing the dance with Nicole: The National Hurricane Center notes in its 11 a. m. discussion of Matthew that the subtropical ridge over the western Atlantic could head east and push Matthew east and even south. But it’s too early to say where this thing is going with any certainty, so keep watching Matthew at the National Hurricane Center, or your favorite source of weather news.