From a   mold used in sugar refining to an oversize oyster, a    spear tip to a   Transferware teapot and a bone from a passenger pigeon, which was once the most abundant bird in North America but was declared extinct in 1914, New York City has cataloged and digitized a vast archive of its buried past. On Wednesday, the Landmarks Preservation Commission is opening the Nan A. Rothschild Research Center, which the commission says is the first municipal archive devoted to a city’s own archaeological collection, a repository in Midtown Manhattan of more than one million artifacts open to researchers and scholars by appointment. A digital archive is already available. In many cases, the objects are portals of discovery into the city’s history, opening hidden doors to untold stories that began  —   or, perhaps, ended  —   with a child’s broken teacup abandoned in Battery Park or a glass seal that identified a wine bottle waiting to be refilled at a local tavern with a family’s favorite vintage. “We’re curating what scholars may want to study and what may be exhibited,” said Amanda Sutphin, the commission’s director of archaeology. The   repository on West 47th Street already contains more than 1, 500 boxes of artifacts from 31 sites that were excavated in all five boroughs. Those sites include the Stadt Huys, now 85 Broad Street in Lower Manhattan, which, in 1979, was the city’s first major historical dig and demonstrated that archaeological treasures might be buried beneath the shallow basements of old buildings. (The Stadt Huys was originally built to relieve William Kieft, the director of what was then known as New Netherland, of the burden of accommodating visitors to his home it later became New Amsterdam’s first City Hall.) That excavation was directed by Nan A. Rothschild, a professor emeritus of anthropology at Barnard College, a member of the faculty of Columbia University, and a cousin of Helena Durst, the chief administrative officer of the Durst Organization, the developer who donated the space for the repository. The repository was named for Dr. Rothschild to honor her contributions to the field. The repository and website are also a collaboration of the Museum of the City of New York the Fund for the City of New York and Iron Mountain, a records and data management company. The digital archive includes images, maps, an education guide and quiz for students, a searchable database, archaeological reports by the landmarks commission and information on which local colleges and universities offer degrees in the field. (A tip for beginners: If you want to sound smart, refer to a piece of broken pottery as a sherd, not a shard.) The repository “contains the city’s material past, although often in fragments,” Dr. Rothschild said. Meenakshi Srinivasan, the commission chairwoman, said, “The everyday objects in the collection reveal what life was like for people who were not documented in the historic record. ” Until they were gathered at the repository, the artifacts were stored at 14 locations, some under reasonably good conditions at Columbia University and Brooklyn College. But some artifacts were unceremoniously stored at a women’s restroom in Van Cortlandt Park. They will now be kept in a   storage area where the contents will be further inventoried. Over time, more will be integrated into the repository, including objects from an excavation at 7 Hanover Square in Lower Manhattan that have been in storage. “These are public projects paid for with public dollars on public land, so the public needs to benefit,” Ms. Sutphin said.