Good morning. (Want to get California Today by email? Sign up.) Let’s turn it over to Adam Nagourney, our Los Angeles bureau chief, for today’s introduction. For many tourists, Los Angeles is Hollywood. And Hollywood is Hollywood Boulevard, with the Walk of Fame, the celebrity stars in the sidewalk, the Egyptian Theater, and of course, the corner of Hollywood and Vine. But truth be told, for all its history and kitsch, Hollywood Boulevard is also a place of street performers dressed up as   hustling passing tourists, impassable sidewalks, street vendors and the occasional crime that draws of    attention, to the consternation of civic boosters. Despite all that, Alison Martino, who has popular a Facebook page celebrating old Hollywood, was horrified last week when she came across a photograph that showed souvenir vendor stands had overtaken one of the most venerable attractions on Hollywood Boulevard: the courtyard at the TCL Chinese Theater, where movie stars celebrate their fame by leaving handprints in cement. Ms. Martino posted the photograph with an indignant message to her page, which has over 260, 000 followers. “If you’re looking for the handprints and signatures of Jean Harlow or Lana Turner, they’re covered up with all these carts full of souvenir junk,” she wrote. “How incredibly disrespectful. If Lucy and Ethel were to try and steal John Wayne’s footprints today, they couldn’t even find it!” The reaction was not all negative. Escott O. Norton, the head of the Los Angeles Historical Theatre Foundation, said in his own Facebook post that he did not “see it as the disaster that some are making of it. ” He added, “The owners of the Chinese are very careful with the historic Forecourt and I have met with them specifically about it. ” Nonetheless, it drew a flood of attention. “I’ve never seen, in six years that I’ve run this page, this kind of emotional reaction as I’ve seen to the junk carts on this sacred ground,” Ms. Martino said. “It’s a cemetery. ” By Monday, the vendors had disappeared, presumably asked to move by the Chinese theater. The owners did not respond to a request for comment. It was impossible to determine if this was just a temporary clearance or a permanent new policy. Next up? The street performers. “It’s a freak show,” Ms. Martino said. “Now that we’ve had a victory in the Forecourt, let’s clean up the Hollywood Walk of Fame. ” See reporting in The New York Times on the Nov. 8 ballot initiatives: Proposition 51 (a new school bond) | Proposition 56 (cigarette tax) | Proposition 60 (condoms in adult film) | Propositions 62 and 66 (death penalty questions) | Propositions 65 and 67 (on banning plastic bags). And dig into analyses of all 17 statewide measures by the Legislative Analyst’s Office, CALmatters, KQED and Ballotpedia. • The chief executive of Backpage, a website known for sexually oriented ads, was arrested on a California warrant and charged with pimping. [The New York Times] • California’s recycling crisis is sending billions of cans and bottles into landfills. [Bloomberg News] • Theranos, the embattled   company based in Palo Alto, said that it would lay off around 40 percent of its work force. [The New York Times] • Why a Palestinian history class at U. C. Berkeley was canceled, then reinstated. [Newsweek] • Vince Staples, a Long Beach rapper, said a woman who posted a widely shared video slamming one of his songs had the right to say whatever she wanted. [The New York Times] • Many fans expected at the Desert Trip festival see it as a last chance to commune with titans of   rock. [The New York Times] • The storied concert site Irvine Meadows is saying its final goodbyes before getting demolished for apartments. [O. C. Weekly] • The photographer Randi Malkin Steinberger captured the incongruously cheerful fumigation tents that cover buildings being treated for termites in Los Angeles. [The New York Times] Sharon Gray, a plant scientist at U. C. Davis, was killed Tuesday during protest violence outside Addis Ababa, the capital of Ethiopia. She was 30. Ms. Gray, a postdoctoral student, was traveling through an area of the country that has been engulfed by antigovernment demonstrations when a mob threw stones at the vehicle she was riding in, striking her in the head, officials said. Details of the attack remained unclear, said Savithramma   the chairman of the U. C. Davis plant biology department. “Sharon was such a bright human being,” Ms. Gray’s family said in a statement provided by her husband, RJ Cody Markelz. “We have been so lucky to have shared part of our lives with her. ” Ethiopia has been wracked by protests since late 2015 with hundreds of thousands of people flooding the streets to demand fair land distribution and political change. The government’s response has been ruthless, human rights groups say, leaving hundreds of people dead. In recent days, crowds have attacked several vehicles in the wake of a stampede last weekend that killed more than 50 people, Reuters reported. Ms. Gray was traveling with Siobhan Brady, an associate professor in U. C. Davis’s plant biology department, who was unhurt and en route back to the United States, university officials said. The State Department was arranging for Ms. Gray’s body to be flown out as well, Professor   said. Ms. Gray was trying to understand how climate change was affecting plant life, and traveled to Ethiopia to attend a meeting about her research. Ms. Gray grew up in the Chicago area. She earned her undergraduate and doctoral degrees from the University of Illinois   and in 2013 joined the plant biology department in Davis. In 2014, she was married to Mr. Markelz, also a postdoctoral researcher at U. C. Davis, at a lodge surrounded by pine trees in Oglesby, Ill. “She was destined for a great future,” Professor   said. “We knew she was going to be some kind of star in plant biology. ” He added that Ms. Gray was also endlessly upbeat. “Everybody liked her,” he said. Ms. Gray’s family set up a GoFundMe   in her honor aimed at mentoring young women in science. California Today goes live at 6 a. m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes. com. The California Today columnist, Mike McPhate, is a   Californian  —   born outside Sacramento and raised in San Juan Capistrano. He lives in Davis. Follow him on Twitter. California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and attended U. C. Berkeley.