TORONTO  —   It was not an obvious moment of infamy  —   no ground ball through the legs, no fastball down the middle just begging to be a hit. But the record will show that the play that sent the Toronto Blue Jays to the American League Championship Series on Sunday was scored as an error against the most notorious member of the Texas Rangers. Second baseman Rougned Odor, who punched the Blue Jays’ Jose Bautista in the jaw in May, made a wild throw while trying to turn a double play in the bottom of the 10th inning at Rogers Centre in Game 3 of this division series. Josh Donaldson, who had led off with a double, slid headfirst into home to complete a   victory and a     sweep. Odor’s error was the first in baseball history to end a postseason series. “I threw it a little bit to the side,” he said. “I pulled the ball a little bit. I tried to do my best, and that’s it. I had a chance at first. If it was a good throw, we can make the double play. ” Toronto returns to the A. L. C. S. after having lost in six games to the Kansas City Royals last fall. The series starts Friday in Boston or Cleveland the Indians can eliminate the Red Sox at Fenway Park on Monday to finish a sweep of that series. The Blue Jays emphatically stomped the Rangers, who had the A. L.’s best record but fell to Toronto in the division series for the second year in a row. The Rangers hit . 204 and posted a 6. 18 earned run average. “We got cold at the worst moment,” said Adrian Beltre, the veteran Texas third baseman. “We’re facing a team that got hot, and we couldn’t find a way to beat them. ” Bautista  —   whose bat flip in last year’s division series angered the Rangers  —   had a chance to win the series against Matt Bush, the reliever who plunked him in May before Bautista’s hard slide led to Odor’s punch. But after Donaldson’s double and an intentional walk to Edwin Encarnacion, Bush struck out Bautista to bring up Russell Martin. Martin saw eight pitches, all fastballs from 97 to 99 miles per hour. After two   fouls, he lashed a grounder to the shortstop hole, where Elvis Andrus backhanded it and flipped it to Odor, who was covering second base. Encarnacion slid into second, but Odor said that did not affect him. Still, he fired a   throw into the dirt that pulled Mitch Moreland off first base. The ball skipped off the glove of Moreland, who scrambled to pick it up and fling it home, but too late. “If it gets past me, we have no shot,” Moreland said. “I knew I had to knock it down and try to keep it close. It just got a little too far from me. ” Moreland said that if the ball had stayed in his glove, or fallen right at his feet, he doubted that Donaldson would have even tried for home. But when the ball got away, the   Moreland had to set his feet as he gathered it, emboldening Donaldson to make his dash. “What’s kind of crazy is, I played against Mitch Moreland for a long time and played against him in college as well,” said Donaldson, who attended Auburn when Moreland played for Mississippi State. “So it wasn’t one of those situations where I was just wheeling around third to score, because I respect Mitch’s arm. For me, the deciding factor was once I saw the ball get away from him, I felt like I had to take a chance. That situation in the game, if he ends up throwing me out, making a great play, you kind of have to tip your cap to him. But I’m banking on the fact that I’m going to make it more times than not. ” The Rangers’ last hope was a replay review to examine whether Encarnacion’s slide could be considered interference. Although the Blue Jays paused their reveling for a moment, the umpire crew chief, Joe West, soon removed his headset and gently signaled safe. “It was a little bit of a buzzkill,” Martin said, but the Blue Jays were not complaining. Just five days after celebrating a thriller against Baltimore in the   game  —   which was won on an Encarnacion homer in the 11th  —   the Blue Jays partied in their clubhouse again. Toronto did not secure a   berth until the final day of the regular season, struggling at times with inconsistent offense despite a sturdy pitching staff. But the team has won six games in a row to clinch a playoff spot and advance through two rounds. The Blue Jays mauled the Rangers’ star pitchers, Cole Hamels and Yu Darvish, to win the first two games by a combined  . “Even when people around them doubted, the belief was here  —   we’re going to play well and we’re going to be a championship team,” said Mark Shapiro, the Blue Jays’ president and chief executive. “We’ve had isolated moments, but this is probably the best baseball we’ve played all year  —   at the right time. ” There was no misbehavior on Sunday, no beanballs or punches or beer cans flung from the stands. After a fan just missed hitting Orioles outfielder Hyun Soo Kim with a beer can on Tuesday, the Blue Jays announced they would serve beer only in plastic cups for the rest of the postseason. And the teams made good on their promise to leave behind their tense history and play clean. “We kind of put our emotions aside and played good baseball,” Martin said. Some Rangers fans chanted Odor’s name at Bautista when he batted at their park, and most Blue Jays fans vigorously booed Odor whenever he was announced Sunday. But Odor said that did not bother him. “I’ve been playing like this in my country,” said Odor, who has played winter ball in his native Venezuela. “We have really good fans in Venezuela and I play with one of the best teams in Venezuela. It’s always a lot of people, a lot of crowds. I’ve been in that situation before. ” The Rangers have been in this situation before, too, hurting themselves in a   playoff game in Toronto. Last year while leading in the seventh inning of the decisive fifth game, Texas fell apart thanks to two errors by Andrus and another by Moreland. Andrus, 28 and also from Venezuela, said he consoled Odor, who is 22, after the game. Odor said he appreciated the support. “I was the one making errors last year,” Andrus said. “I know how it feels. It’s the worst feeling ever. But we still have a lot of years in our career. Sooner or later, we’re going to be back in the playoffs, and hopefully we can go deeper. ” The Rangers made other mistakes in Game 3: Two misplaced sliders by Colby Lewis turned into homers for Encarnacion and Martin in the first inning, and a passed ball by catcher Jonathan Lucroy brought in the tying run in the sixth. Texas briefly held two leads, and Andrus and Odor homered off Aaron Sanchez, who gave up six runs and walked four over five and   innings. But the Rangers were nearly helpless against the Blue Jays’ bullpen. Moreland greeted Joe Biagini with a double in the sixth, but Biagini and three others retired the final 13 Texas hitters. Roberto Osuna worked the last two innings for Toronto, earning the victory after securing a   save in Game 2. Now Osuna and his teammates get four days to rest before the A. L. C. S. Donaldson has been playing hurt, without disclosing the injury. It is safe to say he felt just fine diving into the next round. “When you have 50, 000 fans screaming,” Donaldson said, “it kind of numbs the pain. ”