A week ago, it would have seemed wildly unlikely to most people that Donald J. Trump, not Hillary Clinton, would be the candidate more likely to provoke a   shift in how we think of and talk about sexual assault. But since the release on Friday of a recording in which Trump essentially admits he has a habit of sexually assaulting women, a series of stories involving the Republican nominee seems to be doing just that. Consider the story of the former People magazine reporter Natasha Stoynoff, whom Trump reportedly pushed up against a wall and kissed in 2005. Stoynoff chose to move on with her life rather than speak publicly about what she says Trump did to her. Even as a   working woman, she writes that she still partly blamed herself for the assault well into this year, believing that at some level, she had surely somehow encouraged it. She could not shake the idea of her own culpability until the moment she heard Trump on tape saying he did this kind of thing as a matter of course. “I finally understood for sure that I was not to blame for his inappropriate behavior,” she wrote. Her choices and her thinking, all those years before she told her story  —   they sound familiar. Surely many women her age and older would still respond to those circumstances the way she did, with silence and shame. Certainly, Jessica Leeds, who spoke to The New York Times about an encounter in which she said Trump groped her on a plane, came of age at a time when women were taught, as she put it, “it was our fault. ” Trump’s own camp seems to be working hard to perpetuate the kind of thinking that blames the woman: Eric Trump said in August that a “strong, powerful woman” like his sister Ivanka wouldn’t allow sexual harassment to happen to her. This is not the first time that the subject of a man’s unwanted sexual overtures has emerged unexpectedly from the churning of the political process, and has then come to dominate it. Fourteen years before Stoynoff’s experience, the law professor Anita Hill testified, during Justice Clarence Thomas’s confirmation hearings, that Thomas had sexually harassed her when she worked for him at, of all places, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. The following year,   numbers of women swept into Congress  —   many of them, some have argued, supported by women repulsed not only by Hill’s story, but also by the sight of so many white men on the Senate Judiciary Committee grilling Hill, a black woman, about her motives and questioning her character. If Hill’s single story of sexual harassment had the ultimate effect of galvanizing women, imagine what might happen now that the issue is sexual assault  —   as numerous women have stepped forward to talk about the way Trump helped himself to their body parts. The message of Anita Hill’s experience was this: If you don’t think this is important, if you don’t think this happens to women every day, then you don’t get it. In the past few years, an insistence that women’s right to live free of sexual harassment or assault has picked up new energy, as women on campuses have fiercely taken up the cause. Last year, dozens of women stepped forward to tell their stories of being sexually assaulted by Bill Cosby, empowering other women to speak out about their own experiences, rather than remain silent for fear of being discredited. Hillary Clinton has said, using the words of current feminism, that every rape victim has “the right to be believed. ” (Trump’s supporters have used these words against her, revisiting her role as a defense lawyer in a 1975   case, even as they now deny the credibility of any of the women accusing Trump of molesting them.) But Stoynoff’s story speaks to the durability of ingrained, downright biblical ideas about women’s sinning,   ways. It also testifies to the inevitable advantages conferred by power on those who have it. So what exactly would it take for more women to feel empowered, for more men’s consciousness to be raised on the subject? Maybe this presidential election, of all things, will be another milestone. Grueling and sordid or not, it has placed matters of sex, power and gender at the center of the national conversation, not off in the peripheral space typically reserved for women’s issues in media. It is one thing to be a passive reader of the news about Cosby, or the trials endured by young women on college campuses it is another for the public to consider their electoral choices in light of those kinds of issues. Oddly enough, there is, right now, outrage about the unwanted groping of women among both Republicans and Democrats  —   different men, different victims, but same idea. Is there any bipartisan issue more relevant, or more emotional, than this one? Perhaps Trump is the ultimate gift to feminists: a grabber and bragger who has focused the world’s attention on the outrages women quietly endure on a chronic basis without notice. And perhaps we can now see the   response to Bill Clinton’s own accusers  —   subdued or defensive among liberals on account of his   politics  —   as a near miss of an opportunity, a cultural shift that could have built on the momentum of Anita Hill, but never did. The stories emerging about Trump, as well as his own words, could give women a new way of seeing their own experiences with sexual assault going forward  —   as part of a pattern of male behavior that has been noted, flagged and loudly denigrated.