HILLSBOROUGH, N. C.  —   The firebomb hurled through the front window of the local Republican headquarters here was one of the uglier manifestations of a sour national mood. It also seemed to shatter something sacred in this small North Carolina town, where residents, in the face of cultural change, have largely found an amicable balance between liberal and conservative, traditional and trendy, in the heart of a swing state that is one of the nation’s most politically and culturally divided. “It’s just reprehensible in so many different ways,” Tom Stevens, Hillsborough’s mayor of 11 years, said on Monday. It was an attack on freedom of expression, he said, and rattled Hillsborough’s sense of safety. But he added, “I don’t think it is representative of the majority of the people in this town, who have faith in our political discourse and our political process. ” The attack, which occurred early Sunday and badly damaged the inside of the political office, remains under investigation by federal, state and local officials. Both Hillary Clinton and Donald J. Trump swiftly issued denunciations. A group of Democrats created a GoFundMe page that had raised more than $13, 000 by Monday evening for the Orange County Republican Party. The authorities had not announced any arrests as of Monday afternoon. The sense that the attack did not reflect the spirit of Hillsborough was shared on Monday by liberals and conservatives, who said that this town of 6, 000 people, about 40 miles northwest of Raleigh, had found a way to peacefully manage the cultural and political tension that had come to define it. It is a tension between a   Southern conservative faction and a crowd of mostly   artists, authors, tech workers and foodies  —   a mix of people who have reimagined Hillsborough in the past 15 years or so, bringing art galleries, good restaurants and good coffee. Today, it is the kind of North Carolina hamlet where the butter beans come in a thoughtful $27 dish of tortelloni with kale butter and pecorino. In a nation where residents tend to   according to political belief, this is a place where Democrats and Republicans often live cheek by jowl, and more or less agree to disagree amid this year’s tight and agitated races for president, governor and Senate. The two factions in Hillsborough do not live in absolute harmony, however. Mayor Stevens said that someone burned rainbow flags, symbols of the gay pride movement, in April at a church outside town. In August 2015, protesters held a downtown rally opposing the Hillsborough Board of Commissioners’ decision to remove the words “Confederate Memorial” from the doorway of the Orange County Historical Museum. But the idea that the two factions strive to live in peace can feel almost like a defining mythology of Hillsborough. “What might be called New South and Old South not only coexist, atypical in a region where rapid growth and the influx of outsiders have often fomented cultural clashes, but each appreciates the value the other brings to the table,” the local author Bob Burtman wrote in a 2010 anthology about the town. Evelyn   the vice chairwoman of the Orange County Republican Party, who stepped carefully through the glass shards of the blackened office Monday morning, said she had witnessed the cultural change since moving to the area in the early 1980s. She said she was long used to living among Democrats and was friendly with many of them, including members of her garden club. Orange County, with Hillsborough as its seat, includes nearly all of liberal Chapel Hill, home to the University of North Carolina. Nearly half of the county’s approximately 116, 000 voters are registered Democrats, and fewer than 15 percent of voters signed up as Republicans. A substantial number of voters  —   nearly 38 percent  —   are unaffiliated. Ms.   said she could not imagine that a local person was responsible for the attack, given the friendly tenor of the town. But she did not play down the seriousness. She said Mr. Stevens approached her on Sunday and said, “Oh, this is sad, Evelyn. ” “I said, ‘No, it’s not sad  —   it’s evil,’” she recalled. The Hillsborough police said someone had hurled “a bottle containing flammable material” through the front window of the headquarters. The authorities said they believed that the fire extinguished itself after burning furniture and causing “heavy smoke damage. ” Someone also   “Nazi Republicans leave town or else” and a swastika on a nearby building. Federal, state and local officials are involved in the inquiry. The F. B. I. and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives said agents were assisting the local authorities. The Republican headquarters are in a section of town that is set apart from the city center and years ago had a Daniel   roadside attraction. A Daniel Boone statue remains, as do a few log cabins and wagon wheels. These days, Hillsborough’s cultural confluence is best evident amid the handsome, historic brick buildings of downtown. One short stretch of King Street includes Purple Crow Books, which shows off works by local authors like Lee Smith and Hal Crowther a community FM radio station that plays, among other things, electronic and   string music Carolina Game and Fish, a purveyor of shotguns,   fishing reels and live bait and Dual Supply Company, a   hardware store. Inside the store, Frances O’Halloran, 55, a local herbalist, was buying a few items from Michael Woods, 56, whose father is the owner. “It just didn’t make sense to me,” said Ms. O’Halloran, who supports Mrs. Clinton. “Here, I hear all sides of every issue, and yet everybody gets along,” said Mr. Woods, an independent who said he voted for individuals, not by party affiliation. Dave Rutter, 68, a musician with an Americana group called the Pagan Hellcats, was outside Cup A Joe, King Street’s coffee shop, with members of his band. He wondered aloud whether Trump supporters had carried out the attack in an effort to earn sympathy for Republicans. “This is weird,” he said. “We have no history of any kind of violence. ” At Carolina Game and Fish, such theories prompted a few snorts of incredulity. “If it was a false flag thing, why would they do it in Orange County?” asked Michael Tulloch, 67, a retired drug abuse counselor who said he had been planning to vote for Mr. Trump until his recent handling of sexual assault allegations. “Most of the people in this area didn’t even know where the Republican headquarters was at,” Mr. Tulloch said. On Monday afternoon, Gov. Pat McCrory, a Republican locked in a tight race for   visited the burned building. Hours before, volunteers and local party members had set up tables outside the building, signing up volunteers and giving away yard signs that had not been melted together. Mr. McCrory expressed anger about “an assault on our democratic process. ” “The last thing we need is more types of violence and intimidation as it relates to the political process, not just in North Carolina but the United States of America,” Mr. McCrory said. “Whatever the motive,” he said, “there is no excuse for it. ”