How is it that with seven days left until the election, we are consumed anew by emails, Hillary Clinton’s private server, the F. B. I. and an investigation that was supposed to be closed? In the latest episode of The   we examine the most recent surprise twist in a campaign that never ceases to shock. We break down this development into three parts. First we sift through the essential,   facts of the case with two reporters who have covered the investigation since it emerged, Amy Chozick and Michael S. Schmidt. Second, we examine why the F. B. I. director, James B. Comey, decided to make the new findings public, by talking with Carrie Cordero, a former attorney at the Department of Justice who worked closely with the F. B. I. And to close out, we explain what impact this could have on the outcome of next Tuesday’s election, with insight from Nate Cohn of The Upshot. He says that, as with so many of the major news events in this contest, this one is not likely to be a game changer. “All those things did move the polls, but they didn’t fundamentally reshape the race,” Mr. Cohn says. “The core underlying dynamic of this election hasn’t ever changed, and that’s that a majority of voters don’t really believe Trump is qualified to be the president, they don’t like either candidate, so when the news is good or bad for their candidate they become more or less likely to indicate their support, but there has never been a time in this race when Trump has been able to assemble a clear path to victory. ” COMING UP! The   is doing a   show for Nov 8. Ask us anything about the election, the candidates, the polls  —   or about the reporters on the show. We’ll respond on air. Leave us a message at (347)   or send us an email at therunup@nytimes. com. Be sure to leave us a your full name, the state where you live, and a number where we can reach you. From a desktop or laptop, you can listen by pressing play on the button above. Or if you’re on a mobile device, the instructions below will help you find and subscribe to the series. On your iPhone or iPad: 1. Open your podcast app. It’s a   app called “Podcasts” with a purple icon. (This link may help.) 2. Search for the series. Tap on the “search” magnifying glass icon at the bottom of the screen, type in “The  ” and select it from the list of results. 3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, tap on the “subscribe” button to have new episodes sent to your phone free. You may want to adjust your notifications to be alerted when a new episode arrives. 4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before deciding to subscribe, tap on the episode title from the list on the series page. If you have an internet connection, you’ll be able to stream the episode. On your Android phone or tablet: 1. Open your podcast app. It’s a   app called “Play Music” with an    icon. (This link may help.) 2. Search for the series. Click on the magnifying glass icon at the top of the screen, search for the name of the series and select it from the list of results. You may have to scroll down to find the “Podcasts” search results. 3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, click on the word “subscribe” to have new episodes sent to your phone free. 4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before deciding to subscribe, click on the episode title from the list on the series page. If you have an internet connection, you’ll be able to stream the episode.