AZUSA, Calif.  —   A gunman with a   rifle was found dead inside a home in a suburb of Los Angeles on Tuesday after shooting at police officers who responded to a report of gunfire and found one person fatally shot and two others critically injured, the authorities said. It was not clear if the gunman  —   a man whose identity was not immediately known  —   died of a   gunshot wound or had been shot by the police, Lt. John Corina of the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department said at a news conference. “We’re in the process of trying to figure out why this happened and who this person is and what exactly made him snap,” he said. The victim who was fatally shot was a man, but no details were immediately available about him. The two other victims, women ages 65 and 59, were in “really critical” condition, Lieutenant Corina said. “We don’t know what’s going to happen to them,” he said. The episode, which unfolded around 2 p. m. in Azusa, a city about 25 miles east of Los Angeles, took several confusing and conflicting turns as the authorities tried to sort out what happened and to whom. The acting chief of the Azusa Police Department, Steve Hunt, had said at a news conference earlier on Tuesday that the person who did the shooting was a woman armed with a   rifle and that the dead victim was also a woman. Asked about the inconsistencies with earlier accounts, Lieutenant Corina said, “With something like this there are a lot of rumors flying around and a lot of misinformation going out. ” He added that “so far we have found no evidence” of an accomplice in the shooting but emphasized that the police were searching    for anyone else who might be injured, dead or hiding. The shooting unfolded as five Azusa police officers and one from nearby Irwindale responded to a report of gunfire on Fourth Street. Chief Hunt said that officers found “multiple victims” and that as they were tending to them, the officers came under fire. They had to be extracted by armored vehicles. All of the officers who were pinned down by gunfire were “accounted for, safe and rescued,” the department said on Twitter. The gunman went back into a home and was barricaded there until tactical units entered the house and found him dead. Lieutenant Corina said that the police were obtaining a search warrant to look through the house. The victim who was fatally shot was lying in a doorway outside the home. What set off the shooting remained a mystery. “We’re still trying to figure it out ourselves,” Lieutenant Corina said. After the shooting, two schools were locked down and two polling sites  —   at Memorial Park and Dalton Elementary  —   were closed, with Memorial Park shut for the rest of the day. “Voters should avoid the area and, if necessary, cast a ballot at an alternate polling location,” Dean Logan, the Los Angeles County   and county clerk, said on Twitter. The police said the shooting did not appear to have any connection to the polling sites or Election Day. Alfonso Mendez, 42, who lives in the neighborhood, said he saw two vehicles crash at the intersection of North Angeleno Avenue and Third Street. “A big van and a white car were in an accident,” Mr. Mendez said. He said an occupant “ran out of the car and started shooting at the cops. ” Chief Hunt said there was no pursuit by the police leading up to the shooting. The lieutenant said it was not clear how  —   or if the crash  —   was related to the shooting.