Would you change the oil in your car or assemble an Ikea kitchen yourself if you didn’t have to? Neither would I. But what if you wanted something relatively simple, like a new dress. Is there someone around who can help? And even better, at no charge? I am happy to tell you that yes, there are    —   and very    —   people stationed in dressing rooms all over the city. They are called personal shoppers and most big stores have had them for so many years that it’s easy to forget about them. I decided to try out the services offered by Bergdorf Goodman, Macy’s and Saks Fifth Avenue, stores that represent a range of prices. Here’s how it works: You call the store, ask for a stylist, make an appointment, tell the stylist what you’re looking for  —   and off to work they go, pulling items off the racks for you to try. (Bergdorf’s and Saks offer “Closet Styling,” too this means that a personal shopper comes to your house, helps clean out your closet, updates your wardrobe and dreams up ways to mix and match new and existing pieces. For no charge. Might they be willing to clean out the fridge as well?) There are also companies like Trunk Club, which send boxes of clothing selected to fit your needs. Try the items on at home. Buy them if you like. Return them if you don’t. They’ll send new ones, and at no cost. I supplied my stylists at Bergdorf’s, Saks, Macy’s and Trunk Club with the same information: I wanted to look smarter, more chic and more fun younger wouldn’t hurt, but I didn’t want to look like a nutty   person trying to look young. I said I was a writer and that I sometimes had work lunches and dressy events. Each of the stylists posed very different questions when we spoke on the phone before meeting. The Saks stylist wanted to know: Blonde or brunette? Shoe size? O. K. with sleeveless? [More in Shopping: A sensual experience | Art that makes shopping fun] The stylist at Bergdorf’s asked me to send along a few photos, which I think was a deft way of not asking questions like: Are you fat? Misshapen? Entirely undistinguished looking?   gorgeous? I sent photos to clear up these mysteries. You know how you go to the grocery and always manage to come home with the same items? I do something like this when shopping for clothes: No matter how thoroughly I scout the racks, I somehow wind up with variations on the same black outfits. I deliberately did not set a particular price range for my stylists I did not want to inhibit their instincts. Instead, I let each one know that I was open to seduction and invited them to show me something I would never select myself. The Macy’s stylist was the only one who probed the delicate matter of money. How much was I comfortable spending, she asked. I told her a few hundred dollars for a truly great item was fine and that beyond that, I would have to think more deeply. The personal shopper office at Bergdorf’s is on the fifth floor, just behind the evening dress collections. The $13, 575   Carolina Herrera sequined illusion tulle and the $8, 800 sleeveless ruffled ivory   ball gowns you pass on your way there help put you in a       mood. My stylist led me into a nicely lit suite of rooms. It was full of mirrors and outfitted with velvet chairs, the   closet of collective dreams. I made myself at home.   appointments can last up to three hours but have been known to extend for three days. My stylist favored feathers, metallics and lacy fabrics mixed with leather. I picked up a black Elie Tahari skirt. It was a miniskirt and a midiskirt it was lace and also not lace. The mini was set inside the midi the outer layer was lace, the inner one not. (I had it all!) Then, a perfect dress: Olive green. Fit and flare. Good for four seasons. All occasions. My stylist tossed a   scarf over my neck it landed in a perfect, chic configuration. I tried a silver and black velvet minidress with geometric rings. Conservatively tailored, but definitely fun. She strapped an   Gucci bag over my shoulder. A smash addition. Next, a black blouse with golden fruit blossoming on the front a floral print leather skirt with lace panels a reversible shearling coat, blue leather with black collar! The very definition of smarter, more chic, more fun. “A few great pieces and you’re all set, a new look,” the stylist said. The cost was sufficient for what she said was a “transformation”: $5, 900. Crazy. But for a whole new me? Maybe it’s worth it. I looked   in a way I couldn’t possibly put myself together. At Saks, the   area looks like a   salon, all hushed grays and sparkling lights. White roses bloom everywhere. My stylist is big on black. “Let’s go with your style, and take it up a notch,” she said. The black Milly coat and the Vince suede leggings certainly do that. Especially if you throw in the $1, 200 Jimmy Choo boots, one of several pairs thoughtfully placed around the room, “the” boots of the season. A couple of $395 blouses, basic black with white lace collar on one and interesting stitching and layers on the other   …     very fabulous. Did I say anything about needing a long black Hugo Boss dress with a skirt made of panels: embroidered flowers on one, pink swirls on the other? Would you like to know how it looked on me? Expensive. Very expensive. And great. I want this dress. And a life in which $1, 495 dresses make sense. I learned many things from my Saks stylist. About   sweaters, for example. (These are regular sweaters with what looks like holes in the shoulder and are very hot this season.) And: Wear leather boots with suede pants suede boots with leather pants. I have also learned inadvertently about “upselling. ” This is when your stylist intuits  —   by your response to price tags on the items that you like  —   the price point that you may accept, with just a little encouragement. A practiced   will direct you, subtly, to a pair of Roger Vivier black suede boots. They are gorgeous. You will want them. They cost $2, 000. Is there such a thing as a   pair of boots? The total cost to take my style up a notch is $6, 100. I said I’d be in touch. A woman I know, having survived two failed marriages, announced some years ago that she wanted to marry a rich man. She got a job as a personal stylist in the Bloomingdale’s men’s department, and was soon engaged to a billionaire (to whom she is still happily married). This is pretty much all I knew about personal shoppers before I started my investigation. But as I discovered, the parallels between mating and shopping are, in fact, many. “It’s like a blind date,” said my Macy’s stylist when I met her on the fifth floor. We were both bumbling around, looking for each other. She took me to a dungeon of a room, the kind of fluorescently lit place where you might be sent for school detention. (Calla lilies, wilted, in a vase in the reception area.) The dresses she selected were perfect  —   if I were planning to appear in an episode of “Mad Men” or attend P. T. A. meetings in Ohio in 1962. (I think I mentioned a fondness for retro fabric when we spoke on the phone.) There was a green jumpsuit that would have been a good costume for pumping gas at a suburban service station. Could we try something a little younger, less dowdy? I asked. The Macy’s stylist could not be nicer. And because she inquired about my budget, she, unlike the others, was constricted, though I do not think this fully accounted for her selections. I waited for her to return from the racks with the same bad feeling I imagine you get when you meet someone through Tinder and know at once that this is not going anywhere, but are nonetheless compelled to finish the drink. I dutifully tried the green jumpsuit, and a DKNY black slip of a dress with screaming magenta blotches ($395) a Max Mara plaid and several tweedy Calvin Klein, Ralph Lauren and Rachel Roy numbers ($195 to $495). And then politely, and also a little sadly, I said it doesn’t seem to be my day, but I will think about the clothes and maybe try again another time. A Trunk Club box awaited me at home. There are few things as exciting as a giant box with your name on it and lots of stuff inside. But unfortunately, I tried on all the items and they all seemed wrong too short, too tight, off somehow. I liked the range of vision evident in the choices: a casual cashmere sweater with an asymmetric hem, a black Vince moto jacket with shearling collar, a camel cashmere sweater with an asymmetric hem, a conservatively tailored silk shirt dress in a slightly exotic leopard print (red spots! ). “Beats going to the store, huh?” That’s the subject line on the email that Trunk Club sent the following day. Yes! It was a big pleasure to try on clothes at home (white hydrangeas, dried, on my windowsill) and I was sorry to pack everything back up in the cardboard trunk, return label conveniently supplied, and send it back. The note my Trunk Club stylist sent the next day suggested we were just getting going, though, and that she would happily send more boxes until we got it right. I honored the promise I made to each of my store stylists and thought about the items we selected. Obsessively. (Was there any rational way in which it could be said to be smarter to buy the Roger Vivier boots than replace the dishwasher?) But none of the stylists called to follow up. No hard sell there. I was sad about this but also relieved, knowing how vulnerable I felt to prodding. Though I did not make any purchases, my investigation ended with an upbeat takeaway: If you know what you want, personal shoppers can help you find it. Say “retro” and “fit and flare” and “tempt me” and they will hear at least some of what you say. The more specific you are, the more helpful they will be. Tell them you want a little black dress with a   for less than $400 or a       outfit around $195, preferably with lace or feathers, and, my experience suggests, your personal shopper will deliver. Free. Water and white flowers included. Macy’s Pro: Not intimidating. The personal shopper didn’t make me feel like a big jerk because I wasn’t wearing a million dollars’ worth of clothing. Con: It lacked the drama and the cushiness of the other places (the fluorescent lights didn’t help). The stylist had a     kind of fashion vision. Bergdorf Goodman Pro: Really, really lush. Two rooms with lots of mirrors. They took pictures of me that carefully cropped my head off so it was all about the clothes. It felt like  . Con: When I got home, I thought: “What was I thinking? I’m going to spend $400 for a skirt with holes in it. ” I didn’t have their undivided attention: They were doing a little texting and running out to get things for other customers, which punctured the fantasy a little. Saks Fifth Avenue Pro: They brought all these expensive and beautiful shoes that looked transformative in that setting. They picked out things I never would. They showed me things that were truly great. And I was actually tempted. Con: I was dizzy with desire. I really wanted that $1, 700 dress. I thought about it for four days, and then went back to being happy with my wardrobe.