(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the  .) Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1. Donald Trump’s plans for a smooth transition to the presidency are in disarray after the abrupt departures of two top aides handling national security and foreign policy matters. Rudolph Giuliani, the former mayor of New York, is a top contender for secretary of state. House Republicans renominated Speaker Paul Ryan as their leader, quieting rumors of an initial revolt. ____ 2. The election has split American society. Writers and photographers for our magazine fanned out across the U. S. and came back with a portrait of a country at odds with itself. Families are contemplating uncomfortable holidays with relatives on the opposite side of the political divide  —   or even canceling. “I feel like I’ve been living with a lot of people wearing masks, who have been hiding their true selves,” one woman said. ___ 3. Mr. Trump has pledged to repeal the Affordable Care Act. But Medicaid may not shrink all that much. Influential figures in his administration might be willing to establish new conditions for access, but not wholesale cutbacks, our health reporter writes. Above, a   free clinic at an arena in Seattle last month. ___ 4. Traffic deaths have been steadily declining over the last four decades. But they spiked last year, and this year is on track to be even worse. Technologies that emerged from the effort to combat distracted driving have apparently added to the problem, adding to what one expert called “cognitive workload. ” ___ 5. Russia began a new air offensive in Syria, just a day after President Vladimir Putin and   Donald Trump agreed to bolster cooperation. For the first time in Russia’s naval history, jets taking off from its aircraft carrier, the Admiral Kuznetsov, took part in combat. ____ 6. Publicly, the U. S. has kept its distance from the war in Yemen. But its   alliance with Saudi Arabia has left American fingerprints on the   air campaign against rebels. The U. S. sells weapons to Saudi Arabia, refuels its planes and trains its pilots. Graffiti on walls across the capital reads, “America is killing the Yemeni people. ” __ 7. Orchestras are basically functioning as charities. Most rely more on donations than ticket sales, a new report says. Many are building educational and cultural programs that appeal to donors. They also feel increasing pressure to curb costs, which can lead to labor disputes like the strike in Pittsburgh, above. ____ 8. Can fruit and vegetables grown without dirt in a greenhouse be organic? That question is roiling the organic farming world ahead of this week’s meeting of the National Organic Standards Board, which advises the federal government. Some farmers argue that organic production is about caring for the soil, which produces broad environmental benefits. Hydroponic growers say their methods can make organic farming even more sustainable. ____ 9. After spending several years rushing to open their doors on Thanksgiving, retailers have been hit with a dose of reality: It may not be worth it. For many stores, it’s just too much of a headache, with online shopping draining customers and the potential for negative publicity for making employees work on a national holiday. ____ 10. Finally, cornbread dressing, ubiquitous in homes across the South on Thanksgiving in place of stuffing, is not just a side dish. Our food writer tried to learn how to make it, and discovered that it’s “a litmus test on class, race, regional loyalties and grandmothers. ” Here’s the recipe she settled on, and recipes for other great Thanksgiving dishes. ____ Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of the briefing should help. Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p. m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a. m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a. m. Sundays. Want to look back? Here’s last night’s briefing. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes. com.