Good morning. (Want to get California Today by email? Sign up.) California pulled off several mayoral firsts on Election Day. The city of Elk Grove in Sacramento County elected Steve Ly, the first Hmong mayor anywhere in the country. In Berkeley, Jesse Arreguin became the city’s first Latino mayor. And in Stockton, voters elected not only the city’s first black mayor, but also its youngest ever  —   the    Michael Tubbs. Californians have in the past elected a number of   mayors, but perhaps never in a city the size of Stockton, with a diverse population north of 300, 000. (The League of California Cities said it did not track the ages of mayors.) Mr. Tubbs, a City Council member for the last four years, focused his campaign on renewal in a city that was hammered by the 2008 housing crisis. “He sort of represents, I think, people’s hopes for the future of Stockton,” said Keith W. Smith, an associate professor of political science at University of the Pacific, which has a campus in Stockton. Mr. Tubbs, a Democrat, won 70 percent of the vote, a result that was also seen as a repudiation of his rival. The campaign of the incumbent Mayor Anthony Silva, a Republican, was tainted by reports of improper conduct. The latest was an arrest over accusations that he gave alcohol to minors during a strip poker game. Mr. Silva did not respond to requests for comment. “So as much as the vote is for Michael Tubbs a lot of the vote is also against Anthony Silva,” Professor Smith said. Mr. Tubbs was born in south Stockton to a teenage mother and an incarcerated father. He went on to graduate from Stanford and intern at Google and the White House, before going into politics. Speaking on Thursday, he said he was “a little overwhelmed” by his victory. “Coming from where I’m from, living in poverty, not coming from a political family, it’s an incredible honor,” he said. Asked what his political future might hold, Mr. Tubbs said he was focused on the job at hand. As a    however, he was more candid. In 2008, Mr. Tubbs was part of a team that won a national debate competition sponsored by the N. A. A. C. P. As a result, he got to meet Senator Barack Obama, then the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee. ”I looked at him, shook his hand and told him, ‘I’m next,’” Mr. Tubbs said, according to one local news account. “He said, ‘O. K.’” • Los Angeles leaders began outlining a battle plan against deportations of people who are in the country illegally. [Los Angeles Times] • Tensions are flaring in the Bay Area and beyond over how to talk about Donald Trump in schools. [San Francisco Chronicle] • Homelessness across the United States fell slightly last year but increased in California. [SFGate. com] • Los Angeles factories that made clothes for Forever 21 paid workers as little as $4 an hour, officials said. [Los Angeles Times] • Now more than ever, California is the capital of liberal America. [Opinion | Bloomberg] •  .   cars. Regulatory flux. At the Los Angeles Auto Show, an industry buckles up for change. [The New York Times] • Now you can use Airbnb to reserve dance parties in Havana, historical tours in Cape Town and   tours in Los Angeles. [The New York Times] • The   author Michael Chabon is a big deal. So why doesn’t he act like one? [BuzzFeed] • Now a   M. V. P. Mike Trout may be the Angels’ greatest player ever. [The New York Times] • The craftsman J. B. Blunk, who died in 2002, built his Marin County cabin by hand: a holistic expression of an artistic life. [The New York Times] • Movie Review: Fiction and reality intersect in the moody melodrama from Tom Ford, “Nocturnal Animals. ” [The New York Times] • “Gilmore Girls” is back, and with its   repartee, pop culture savvy and heartfelt drama intact. [The New York Times] People on San Francisco’s sidewalks this week have been encountering kindness in an unusual way. Posters have appeared on poles across the city with little dangling paper slips that can be torn off and taken away. But instead of offering yoga lessons or a used sofa, they are simple written compliments  —   and they’re free. The posters are the brainchild of Anna Sergeeva, 26, a San Francisco artist. The idea came to her weeks before the presidential election, Ms. Sergeeva said, but she acknowledged that the mood in liberal San Francisco after Mr. Trump’s victory inspired her to act on it. “I feel like I’m doing a marketing campaign for kindness,” she said on Thursday. Since she and some friends put up a bunch of the posters last weekend, the campaign has taken off, fueled by the Instagram posts of   and the hashtag #thecomplimentproject. As momentum built, Ms. Sergeeva created a website in which other people could download the posters. She said people have reached out from Los Angeles, New York, Arizona, Colorado, Israel, France and Britain. “It’s crazy,” she said. “I’m really excited and happy to part of something that feels special and needed at the moment. ” California Today goes live at 6 a. m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes. com. The California Today columnist, Mike McPhate, is a   Californian  —   born outside Sacramento and raised in San Juan Capistrano. He lives in Davis. Follow him on Twitter. California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and attended U. C. Berkeley.