Tatiana Ricardo is a single mother of four children, including two who have special needs. Her days mostly consist of cooking, cleaning, doing laundry and taking the children to and from school. But to Ms. Ricardo, “It’s all worth it. I’d do anything for them. ” Someday, she says, she would like to open her own day care center. Ms. Ricardo, 31, was born in the Dominican Republic. At age 11, she went to live with her mother in the Bronx. While growing up in a different country had its challenges, like being bullied for not being able to speak English at first, it taught Ms. Ricardo how to be strong and independent  —   traits she hopes to pass on to her children. Nashali, 11, is the oldest and loves to dance. Analie, who is 7 and a big fan of the movie “Frozen,” has a learning disability that she has been working to overcome with speech and occupational therapy.    Michael was found to have attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (A. D. H. D.) three years ago. And then there is    Xavier, who Ms. Ricardo said is “just a happy kid and always laughing. ” The older children also participate in a local runners’ club, which allows them to channel their energy into something productive. The family’s living situation changed last year after Xavier was born. Ms. Ricardo was able to find an affordable apartment in the Bronx, but it lacked proper furniture. The Jewish Board of Family and Children’s Services, a beneficiary agency of   of New York, which is one of the organizations supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, used $1, 198 in Neediest Cases funds to buy a bunk bed and a dining set. All donations made to the Neediest Cases Fund go to one of eight charities: Brooklyn Community Services Catholic Charities Archdiocese of New York Catholic Charities Brooklyn and Queens The Children’s Aid Society Community Service Society of New York Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies   of New York and the International Rescue Committee. To help, please make checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund and send them to P. O. Box 5193, New York, N. Y. 10087. Donations may be made with a credit card at    or online at nytimes. .