The Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade has finished, turkey has been consumed and football has been watched. Time for a trip to the movies. Here is a look at five films that Times editors recommend after that last piece of pumpkin pie. If You Want a Family Film for Younger Kids Disney’s latest animated offering tells the story of an adventurous teenager (Auli’i Cravalho) in search of the demigod Maui (Dwayne Johnson). The visuals are lush and the songs (some written by the “Hamilton” creator   Miranda) are lively, with plenty to hold the whole family’s attention. If it’s sold out: With crowds expected for “Moana,” you may need a second choice. Consider “Trolls,” another     animated movie that has been in theaters a bit longer. If You Want a Family Film for Older Kids Harry Potter himself may not be back, but the wizarding world is at the center of this new film written by J. K. Rowling. The setting is 1926 New York and Eddie Redmayne plays Newt Scamander, a wizard with a suitcase full of unruly creatures. Kids who grew up on the Harry Potter series should feel at home here. The Times critic Manohla Dargis found the titular beasts a highlight, writing, “With the strange caws and showy displays, these beasties provide a lot of the movie’s easygoing pleasures. ” If it’s sold out: Consider “Doctor Strange,” Marvel’s latest “giddily enjoyable”    adventure film that has been a big draw at the box office, but should be a little easier to get into now that it has been out a few weeks longer. If You Want to Get Away From Family  Done playing nice around the dinner table and seeking a break from the family this holiday? Try this irreverent sequel to the irreverent comedy that became a hit in 2003. Billy Bob Thornton is back as the boozing, womanizing title character. (Did you know he wasn’t the first or even second choice for the role? Find out more in this oral history of the first film.) If You Want to Get Serious After the Holiday For the kind of film that will offer substance as well as a ray of hope, try the   drama “Arrival. ” Amy Adams plays a linguist who figures out a way to communicate with alien visitors. It has sleek visual effects and a twisty narrative. In her review, Manohla Dargis praised the lead performance, writing, “By turns inviting and opaque, Ms. Adams turns softness and quiet into heroic qualities, keeping her voice low, modulated, and using stillness to draw you near. ” If You Want to Keep It Light After Thanksgiving Turkey Stuffed from the meal and in search of a movie that will go down easy? Try the comedy “Almost Christmas. ” The ensemble film focuses on an Alabama family gathering for the holiday, with comic turns from Danny Glover, Gabrielle Union, Omar Epps, J. B. Smoove and a wisecracking Mo’Nique, whom the critic Glenn Kenny called “simply magnificent” in his Times review.