He survived conscription in Eritrea, conspired to confront his country’s injustices and faked an emergency to elude the authorities when they discovered his plan. He fled across the African country’s border to Ethiopia and made his way to a refugee camp, braving horrific conditions and rationed food and water for a chance to eventually get to the United States. Yet it was in a terminal at Kennedy International Airport in March that Melake Gebreselase was overcome with anxiety. Now living in New York, he arrived there three hours before his wife of 21 years, Sebentu Aynu Kidane, was supposed to exit customs. Then her plane landed but she was nowhere to be found. “You can worry: ‘What happened? Did she not come? ’” Mr. Gebreselase, 38, said. After a delay passing through immigration, however, Ms. Kidane, 41, emerged and they embraced, both free and together at last after years of forced separation, including a   period during which they did not speak to each other. Mr. Gebreselase, who is still learning English, said in a recent interview that he could not articulate in his new language the emotions he felt that March day. Ms. Kidane, however, remembered what was on her mind. “When I came here, I told him that I liked very, very much to have baby,” she said. “Now that I’m pregnant, I’m happy. ” In April, the couple will welcome their first child. Various forces prevented them from starting a family for nearly two decades. The couple married in 1995 in Eritrea, where military conscription is mandatory and indefinite. Mr. Gebreselase was pulled into military service a couple of years after he married Ms. Kidane. He hoped he would have to serve for only a year and a half. After eight years, he felt certain he would be stuck there until retirement. The only time he saw his wife, friends and other relatives was during periods of leave that lasted roughly 10 days. “It was not enough to meet with her to have a baby,” Mr. Gebreselase said. On a visit home in 2005, Mr. Gebreselase, indignant about his conscription and about injustices in his country, held a meeting with villagers about a plan to criticize the government. His actions attracted the attention of the authorities, and he was arrested. Fearing the horrors that awaited him in jail, Mr. Gebreselase feigned a bathroom emergency  —   and made a run for it, reaching the refugee camp in Ethiopia. According to Amnesty International, the mass of young Eritrean people fleeing the country’s national service has contributed to the global refugee crisis. Mr. Gebreselase, separated from his wife, would not speak to her again until 2013 Ms. Kidane said that all she knew about her husband’s fate was that he was alive. In the camp, eight people were assigned to share one small hut. Refugees were given paltry food rations and had to wait hours in line to get water, Mr. Gebreselase said. In 2013, Mr. Gebreselase received legal refugee status and arrived in New York, where he called his wife. He urged Ms. Kidane to go to Ethiopia and then to try to join him in the United States. Mr. Gebreselase moved into an apartment in the Bronx with three roommates and found work at a restaurant. He also enrolled in classes to learn English. “From Monday up through Friday, I was working,” Mr. Gebreselase said. “Saturday, I was at school. ” Mr. Gebreselase sent money to Ms. Kidane, who by then had reached Ethiopia, where she stayed first in a refugee camp and later in an apartment in Addis Ababa, the capital. Mr. Gebreselase said that the more time passed, the more nervous he became about being able to have a child with his wife before she grew too old. Eventually, Ms. Kidane was granted refugee status, and she arrived at Kennedy on March 13. The couple rented a single room for $600 a month in an apartment in the Bronx. They will have to find a new place to live, because the friend they are renting from will soon be having family members move in with him. For now, Mr. Gebreselase works six days a week at a restaurant, where he earns $9. 25 an hour. Ms. Kidane works part time at a hardware store, earning $10 an hour. The couple also receives $39 a month in food stamps. Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York, one of the eight organizations supported by The New York Times’s Neediest Cases Fund, used $500 from the fund to enable the couple to buy a crib, a stroller and baby clothes. They hope their child will be the first of at least two. Ms. Kidane expects to enroll in nursing school soon. Mr. Gebreselase is considering becoming a cabdriver. He is committed to remaining in New York. “If you don’t work hard, you will not have,” Mr. Gebreselase said. “We’re going to work hard. We need a good life. ”