There could not, on first glance or listen, be two artists more different than John Zorn and Agnes Martin. Mr. Zorn, 63, a longtime fixture of downtown Manhattan, is known for composing frenzied, explosive music, riots of psychotically bright colors. Martin  —   who lived alone in the New Mexico desert for decades, died in 2004 at 92 and is currently the subject of a quietly majestic retrospective at the Guggenheim Museum  —   made paintings of serene subtlety. Mr. Zorn stated the obvious question as he walked on Monday morning around the Guggenheim’s rotunda, where a series of his   works will be played on Thursday and Friday evenings. “Crazy John Zorn and Agnes Martin, the spiritual, the saint,” he said. “Where does it connect?” In fact, the connections go back to Mr. Zorn’s teenage years in New York, when he first encountered Martin’s painting “Red Bird,” with faint lines in colored pencil on a   background, at the Museum of Modern Art. “I was completely hypnotized by it,” he said. Martin had by then grown famous for her softly colored grids, but Mr. Zorn found in her art as much passion as precision. “When I look at her work, I don’t see horizontal lines,” he said. “I don’t see a grid. I see a glow. It’s a feeling that’s going on here. ” Walking up to one of the paintings at the Guggenheim, he added: “You see all these minute  —   you could call them mistakes. It’s supposed to be a straight line, but it’s not a straight line. But she accepts those irregularities, the imperfections that make it perfect. That’s improvisation. Playing, and making a mistake, but you keep working with that mistake and it makes it right. ” It’s in that spirit of improvisation that Mr. Zorn, with his grounding in jazz, perceives a connection between his work and Martin’s that transcends their obvious differences. (“I can’t just go to the desert and start writing,” he said. “That’s not who I am. ”) But they share, in his telling, a fundamental focus on their work and a perpetual need for the sensory rejuvenation aloneness brings, whether in the expanses of New Mexico or the chaos of the East Village. “She lived in a desert environment,” he said. “I live in a city environment. My home is a device to enable creativity. It’s my desert, it’s where I’m going to get those receptors open. ” “As crazy as my work may sound,” he added, “even at its craziest, there is a spiritual practice going on in the process. ” Mr. Zorn long ago gave up on the idea of seriously collecting Martin’s work. (One of her paintings sold at auction this year for more than $10 million.) Instead, he has accumulated old posters for her gallery shows. His musical tributes to her began in the 1990s, when he returned to a few hypnotic, sensuous chords he had created as part of a soundtrack for a lesbian erotic film. Playing with the chords, Mr. Zorn stretched them into a   piece that amplified that mesmerizing quality. He hadn’t been thinking explicitly of Martin while composing, but when he finished, he said, he realized, “Oh, this is an Agnes Martin thing. ” “Her work has a hypnotic vibe to it, you know,” he added. “It has introspection. And it flows in a sensual way, and that’s what those chords did. ” “Redbird,” as he called the piece, moves forward in a long series of calm yet ominous downbeats and their comet trails of resonance, sprinkled with slight rustles of percussion and the smoky undercurrent of a jazz club. The general stillness quivers with the expectancy of a long Morton Feldman work when “Redbird” came out, some summed it up as “Zorn does Feldman. ” Translating the order of the chords in “Redbird” into the duration of hits on four bass drums, he created the booming “Dark River,” and released the two works together. When the Guggenheim was planning its Martin retrospective (a traveling exhibition that, since the summer of 2015, has visited museums in London Düsseldorf, Germany and Los Angeles) officials there, having heard “Redbird,” asked Mr. Zorn if he would perform it live. He demurred, believing that the piece, intended to be heard solely in recorded form, wasn’t meant to be revived in person. But he surprised the museum by offering to write something new instead  —   and for free. (Mr. Zorn said that he does not accept commissions, preferring to follow the timetable and subject matter his inspiration dictates.) At the time, he was mulling a piece for the American Brass Quintet. While he usually composes scores in full, all at once, this time he started with a simpler harmonic progression, which he wrote down on a   staff. (Think of piano music.) When it was done, though, it somehow didn’t seem like a brass piece: It felt, instead, like a work for harp. That became “Praise,” which surrounds a harpist with electronics and percussion. Just as Mr. Zorn considers “Dark River” a précis of “Redbird,” so is “Praise” a précis of “Blue Stratagem,” the piece he eventually made for the brass quintet, featuring the same harmonic motion. Both new works will have their premiere at the Guggenheim this week, alongside “Dark River” and “Curling” (1977) one of the   “game pieces” that Mr. Zorn created early in his career. “Redbird” will play over speakers as the audience tours the exhibition after the concert. It is not the first time Mr. Zorn has occupied a major museum in recent years. This downtown doyen, once an enfant terrible and now an established master, was celebrated at the Metropolitan Museum of Art on his 60th birthday in 2013, as performances of his work sprawled through  the building, an experience that, for this art lover, was, “  ” he said. “I’m still naïve enough,” he said as he looked closely at a Martin, “to believe that a few marks on a piece of paper can change the world. ”