Recalling that moment four years ago, when Gertrudis Torres learned she had Stage 3 breast cancer, still causes her breathing to become heavy and tears to well up. The unthinkable diagnosis was another blow to Ms. Torres’s family. Two years before, in 2010, her husband, Pedro Ayala, was told that he had throat cancer. Her first thoughts after receiving the news were about her son and daughter. How could they be left alone if their parents died? Who would care for them? “It’s like when you’re playing and somebody grabs ahold of you and you try to move but you can’t,” Ms. Torres, 45, said. “It’s not that you don’t want to. It’s like somebody’s holding you. ” In March 2013, she began chemotherapy at Lincoln Medical and Mental Health Center in the Bronx. In May, after years of treatment, her husband died, leaving Ms. Torres to look after their son, Divian, 16, and their daughter, Yeslly, 11. Ms. Torres said she had even more motivation to beat her disease, even as her substantial grief and her weakened physical strength made the challenge seem impossible at times. “I don’t think cancer kills the people,” she said. “It’s how they take it. ” During her treatments, she observed other cancer patients whose   faces bore witness to the horrors of the disease. She told herself she would not end up like that. “I know we’re all going to die one day,” Ms. Torres said. “But when they say, ‘You have cancer,’ all people think, ‘You’re going to die now.’ And the cancer takes them. ” Every day before she went to the hospital for treatment, she dressed up with vigor and excitement, as if going to a fancy dinner or a happening nightclub, donning stylish wigs and makeup. “I would try to be strong,” Ms. Torres said. Her cancer has been in remission since 2014, but Ms. Torres stays active to fight off the remaining physical pain. On occasion, she and Divian play basketball at a park in the Bronx. Most mornings, Ms. Torres takes long walks around a running track, a form of meditative exercise. However, tight finances have become an inescapable part of the family’s life. Ms. Torres has been out of work for years. She left a job as a cashier when her husband fell ill, and it was difficult to return to work when she started her own treatment. The family receives $935 in Social Security disability payments every month. There is no room for extra expenses. In January, Yeslly came home from school with a note asking for $200 to pay her   graduation dues. She attends Community School 61, a Children’s Aid Society school in the Bronx. The Children’s Aid Society is one of eight organizations supported by The New York Times’s Neediest Cases Fund. Unsure how she could afford the $200, Ms. Torres contacted the school for help. The Children’s Aid Society used $170 in Neediest funds to help. The agency previously assisted the family last December, giving them $300 in gift cards to buy clothing and other necessities. After a caseworker visited the Torreses’ home earlier this year, an additional $900 was used to buy two new beds. Ms. Torres and Yeslly had been sharing a twin bed, while Divian slept on a sofa. The agency also used Neediest funds to buy them a kitchen table. “Thank God we got a table,” Ms. Torres said. “We can go to the table and eat together. Pray first, then eat the food. ” In September, the family moved into a bigger apartment in the Bronx. Ms. Torres said she remained optimistic about her health and the family’s future. She said she hoped her children would attend college. Ms. Torres has career ambitions of her own. She plans to work on getting her high school equivalency diploma, and wants to become a medical assistant, a desire she has had for more than a year. Despite her hardships, and the loss of her husband that still weighs heavily on her and her children, Ms. Torres wakes up each morning thanking God for his blessings. She tells Divian and Yeslly to be grateful for another day of life and that fear has no place in their home. “It’s all about having a positive ” Ms. Torres said. “Whatever you think, that’s what you attract. Negative attracts negative. Positive attracts positive. ”