Kellyanne Conway knows all about the caricature of her. And the criticisms of her work for Donald J. Trump. And the questions about whether she will go to work in the White House. Ms. Conway, Mr. Trump’s campaign manager in the final months of the 2016 presidential race, sat for an extensive interview with The   in her office in Trump Tower. To get there, we were led through a secret passageway toward the elevators in the lobby, then up and past a row of   offices, one of them with a sign reading “National Security Council,” where Lt. Gen. Michael T. Flynn has been working over the last few weeks. In the interview, Ms. Conway rebukes her critics, defends her boss, describes the atmosphere within the transition team and sheds light on the  ’s relationship with the elusive next first lady, Melania Trump. “I sometimes think I’m in the men’s room at a bachelor party at the Elks club in Republican politics,” Ms. Conway tells us. “In some ways, being able to have a seat at the table is remarkable, and being able to have the seat at the table as a campaign manager, I think, has been pretty spectacular. ” From a desktop or laptop, you can listen by pressing play on the button above. Or if you’re on a mobile device, the instructions below will help you find and subscribe to the series. On your iPhone or iPad: 1. Open your podcast app. It’s a preloaded app called “Podcasts” with a purple icon. (This link may help.) 2. Search for the series. Tap on the “search” magnifying glass icon at the bottom of the screen, type in “The  ” and select it from the list of results. 3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, tap on the “subscribe” button to have new episodes sent to your phone free. You may want to adjust your notifications to be alerted when a new episode arrives. 4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before deciding to subscribe, tap on the episode title from the list on the series page. If you have an internet connection, you will be able to stream the episode. On your Android phone or tablet: 1. Open your podcast app. It’s a preloaded app called “Play Music” with an    icon. (This link may help.) 2. Search for the series. Click on the magnifying glass icon at the top of the screen, search for the name of the series and select it from the list of results. You may have to scroll down to find the “Podcasts” search results. 3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, click on the word “subscribe” to have new episodes sent to your phone free. 4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before deciding to subscribe, click on the episode title from the list on the series page. If you have an internet connection, you will be able to stream the episode.