Hey, London! You love American football? Well, great news, we’re sending you the Browns! Don’t worry, you’ll be getting the Jaguars and the Rams, too. The N. F. L. announced on Tuesday the teams that will be heading to London next season for a record four   games. The matchups are, well, not great. In Weeks 3 and 4, Wembley Stadium, the spiritual home of soccer, will get   and  . In Weeks 7 and 8, Twickenham, rugby’s iconic stadium, will get   and  . Fans in Britain have shown little discernment over the N. F. L. fare served up to them over the years, generally selling out every game in no time. Perhaps that explains why the league isn’t bothering to send over Tom Brady or Dak Prescott next season. This lineup will test even the most enthusiastic Briton’s patience. The Jaguars have become a virtual home team for London, and they will play a game there for the fifth consecutive season. That may be in part because they have not had a winning record since 2007. At   they are staggering to another disastrous year. The Jaguars have been rumored to be the team most likely to move to London if the N. F. L. decides to put a franchise there. Their opponents, the Ravens, at least have a winning record. But after losing to the Patriots on Monday night, the Ravens are uncertain for a playoff spot. Next fall is a long way away, but right now this quarterback matchup would be Blake Bortles vs. Joe Flacco. Perhaps the most unpredictable game on the London schedule is  . After a run of mediocrity, the Dolphins have sprung to life this year at   although the playoffs are by no means secured. The Saints, expected by many to bounce back this year, are a sad  . There is no telling what these teams will be like come September. The Cardinals have been one of the season’s biggest disappointments, slipping from Super Bowl contenders to    afterthoughts. Carson Palmer will be 37 next season, so it is hard to see a huge improvement. But at least they are not the Rams:   in their new home, Los Angeles, having just fired their coach, Jeff Fisher. And, of course, the Browns. On pace to be the second   team in N. F. L. history, they are perhaps the worst advertisement possible for the American game. The Vikings, their opponent, are   but two games behind the Lions  —   the Lions!  —   and looking at a   season as well. The N. F. L. points out that after the coming season, 26 of its teams will have played in London since the games began in 2007. That does include the Patriots, twice, including a game in 2012, a year after they were in the Super Bowl. This year’s   schedule included the Redskins, coming off a playoff season, and the Giants, a strong possibility for this year’s playoffs. The teams that have not played in London include some of the league’s most popular: the Seahawks, the Packers and the Eagles. The Panthers, the Texans and the Titans have also not made the trip. The N. F. L. must deal with television networks, who prefer that the good teams play at good hours, not early in the morning on United States time. And popular teams that pack their stadiums are reluctant to give up home games. Teams with less devoted fan bases are happy to do so because they make more money selling tickets in London. With eight slots to fill next season, the league has not rolled out its best, to say the least. At some point, football, because it is football, will lose its sheen for fans in Britain. They may start demanding better matchups, or even a team of their own. Until then, we may not see much meaningful football in London.