The comic book author and screenwriter Marc Andreyko felt unfathomable horror when he heard the news of the June 12 mass shooting at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando, Fla. Feeling compelled to help, he posted on Facebook a suggestion to create a comic book that would benefit the victims. The result is “Love Is Love,” a   anthology filled with original work by contributors both familiar and unexpected. The book, which will be available Dec. 28, includes pages from the documentarian Morgan Spurlock, the actor Matt Bomer, the comedians Patton Oswalt and Taran Killam, and other entertainers. “I went through my Rolodex  —   to use a word for something that doesn’t even exist anymore  —   and looked for people who I’m friends with and had name value,” Mr. Andreyko said. “I want this book to be in as many hands as possible. ” Proceeds from the book, which will cost $9. 99 and be available in comic stores and for download online (with additional pages) will benefit Equality Florida, which has set up a fund for the victims of the Pulse shooting and their families. Mr. Andreyko, 46, said the inspiration for the book could be traced to his childhood. He fondly recalled the musical acts that came together for benefit concerts such as Band Aid and Live Aid and the song “We Are the World. ” He noted that the format of the book  —   no story is over two pages long  —   had been chosen to help lure contributors who had tight schedules. But Mr. Andreyko found the biggest motivator was the act of expression. “It was therapeutic,’’ he said. “By doing the art, it was purging for us. ” The offerings are diverse: There are stories that directly address the victims, some pinups, wistful ruminations and more. Brian Michael Bendis, one of Marvel’s most prolific writers, teamed up with his oldest daughter, Olivia, to capture a glimmer of a moment from the shooting at Pulse. They came up with a   spread of revelrous dancers and a lone person in shadow looking upon them. “The idea that someone could stand in the middle of that club full of joy and fun and be drowning in madness was something we couldn’t get past,” Mr. Bendis said. Michael Avon Oeming drew the artwork, and Taki Soma colored it. Mr. Spurlock, who is working on a documentary about superheroes for the History Channel, wrote a   story, with art by Kieron Dwyer, in support of the nation’s dedicated police officers. Mr. Spurlock said officers were sometimes tarnished as a group because of the actions of a few. “These guys still have to show up and do their jobs,” he said. One of the most unusual contributions comes by way of J. K. Rowling, who allowed the use of a quote from “Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire. ” It serves as a caption to an image of Harry and his friends drawn by Jim Lee, a   of DC Comics. The pairing seemed only natural, Mr. Andreyko said. “If we get the   author on the planet, we need the biggest artist,” Mr. Andreyko said. Mark Chiarello, a senior vice president of art and design at DC, added a watercolor rainbow flag to the drawing. The quote is by Albus Dumbledore, the headmaster of Harry’s school, who Ms. Rowling has said is gay, and drives home the point of the anthology: “Differences of habit and language are nothing at all if our aims are identical and our hearts are open. ”