As temperatures in New York City dip from cold to   Christmas tree vendors have bundled up and hunkered down in the safety of their vans and temporary shacks. But on the southwest corner of 57th Street and First Avenue, Gilles Berube, a vendor from Quebec, works only in jeans, a scarf, a knit jacket and a hat. He does not hide from the cold, but wards it off with shots of vodka and rum. “I was born in a snowstorm,” he says, by way of explanation. Last Friday, in the kind of cold that numbs the toes, the presence of liquor attracted a few customers who stopped to have a drink with him, clinking little snifters of brown and clear alcohol. In a city where the business of selling Christmas trees can become contentious, and occasionally litigious, Mr. Berube is a welcome sight for many in this Manhattan neighborhood, where he has peddled trees for nearly two decades. Because permits are not required to sell Christmas trees in New York, the city does not keep a tally of how many vendors set up shop here each year or how many trees are sold, but the number of trees collected after each season might be some indication. The city’s Sanitation Department estimates it collected 214, 000 trees from curbsides last year, in addition to some 30, 000 taken to mulch events hosted by the parks department. Hugh Whaley, a spokesman with the National Christmas Tree Association, wrote in an email that New Yorkers tend to get attached to their local vendors, most of whom come from New Hampshire, Vermont, Maine and Canada. “It is a very longstanding tradition to sell real Christmas trees from the same location year after year,” Mr. Whaley wrote. It’s Mr. Berube’s 19th winter on this corner. The vendor, who says he is “around 55,” begins the season with about 300 trees from a farm in North Carolina. On this particular cold afternoon, nine days out from Christmas, it’s not exactly a mad dash for trees once the sky darkens. After minutes of careful deliberation, a man buys a small   tree. As children whiz by on scooters and women rush past clutching shopping bags, most find a spare second to call out to the Christmas tree man, who responds, “Bonsoir!” For others, he offers an opening line: “Do you want vodka?” Many turn him down, but Maria Opris and her daughter, Maria Iordache, are drawn in by the invitation, and begin to haggle with Mr. Berube over a small tree. “It’s fresh,” he says, bouncing the Fraser fir against the pavement for emphasis. “Normally, $2, 000. For you? $50. $45?” The trio eventually settles on $40 and a kiss on the cheek. For Ms. Opris, buying a tree and having a drink with Mr. Berube has become a family tradition. “When my son comes, they always have a bit of vodka,” Ms. Opris says. “Sometimes he brings a bottle of vodka and stays. ” Mr. Berube, who arrives in New York City about a week before Thanksgiving to set up shop, works with two assistants. One is sleeping nearby in a van. The other, Courtney Thompson, 22, from the Bronx, is trying to impress Mr. Berube by sweeping pine needles from the sidewalk and rushing deliveries to and fro in a shopping cart. It’s his first day. “He said no at first,” Mr. Thompson says. “But then he said he’d give me a chance. ” Things seem to be working out well so far in this profession  —   and this brutal weather  —   good help is hard to find. Mr. Berube, who works as a traveling photographer much of the year, says he catches a few hours of sleep a night in the van during the height of tree season. On this corner, he says, he has met travel companions, photography subjects and even a girlfriend  —   a woman he saw among the trees over a decade ago. He showers at a recreational club nearby or at his girlfriend’s apartment, “when she’s not mad at me. ” The big sale of the evening comes when an older couple, Anne and Richard Murphy, approach the tree stand and pay $160 for a fluffy Fraser fir. Mr. Berube helps them stuff the hefty tree into a grocery cart, attaching shopping bags to the front with zip ties, creating a makeshift bumper. “He has beautiful trees,” Ms. Murphy, 85, says. “You get trees and kisses. ” Ms. Murphy and her husband share a snifter of rum as they prepare to make the   journey back to Sutton Place and string white lights on their tree. Of course, this is still New York. Faster walkers mutter unkind words at the people who have dared to stop and enjoy themselves on the sidewalk. But Ms. Murphy doesn’t notice. She presses her face to the pine needles, closes her eyes and inhales. Mr. Berube will tear down the display late on Christmas Eve. “The next day,” he says, “it’s like nobody was here. ”