SEOUL, South Korea  —   South Korea’s Constitutional Court, which will decide whether President Park   is permanently removed from office, on Thursday ordered Ms. Park to respond to one of the most contentious accusations against her: that she neglected her duties on the day in 2014 when hundreds died in the sinking of a ferry. Ms. Park’s presidential powers have been suspended since Dec. 9, when the National Assembly voted to impeach her. The Constitutional Court has until June to decide whether her impeachment is justified, either reinstating her or formally ending her presidency. Thursday’s hearing, which Ms. Park did not attend, was the start of that process. The legislature accused Ms. Park of a wide range of violations of law and the Constitution, including taking bribes from businesses. But for South Koreans, perhaps the most emotional accusation is that Ms. Park failed to protect citizens’ lives on April 16, 2014, the day the Sewol ferry sank off the country’s southwestern coast. More than 300 people drowned, most of them teenagers on a school trip, and the country was scarred by the catastrophe, perhaps the worst in its peacetime history. Ms. Park has been dogged by questions about what she was doing during the first seven hours of the Sewol disaster. She did not emerge from her official residence during that time, and her office has not explained what she was doing, though it has said she received updates and gave orders. In its impeachment bill, the National Assembly said Ms. Park’s reticence undermined the people’s right to know about the government’s activities. On Thursday, the court appeared to agree. “That was such a day for the country that most people will remember what they were doing that day,” Justice Lee   said. “I am sure she has such memories. We ask her to give us a thorough account of where in the Blue House she was in those seven hours, an    account of what official and private work she was doing then, and what reports and instructions she received and gave. ” A variety of government failures contributed to the Sewol disaster, and it deepened distrust of Ms. Park’s leadership. Lurid rumors have since spread about what she was doing during those hours one such story says she was having a romantic liaison, another that she was undergoing plastic surgery. No evidence has emerged to support either allegation, both of which her office has denied. Her government has sued and even arrested people who have been accused of spreading such rumors. Though Ms. Park’s office said she was kept up to date about the disaster, her visit to an emergency management center later that day led some to conclude that she was not fully informed. At one point, she asked why it was difficult to find missing passengers when they had life jackets an official had to remind her that the passengers were trapped inside the ship, which had overturned and all but disappeared below the water. The hearing on Thursday was brief and largely procedural, attended by only three of the court’s nine justices, as well as lawyers representing Ms. Park and those appointed by the National Assembly to act as prosecutors. Two lone protesters stood outside the court, one supporting Ms. Park and the other calling for her impeachment, with a sign reading, “The 304 who died in the Sewol ferry are watching you!” The next hearing was set for Tuesday. The move to impeach Ms. Park stemmed originally from allegations that she conspired with a longtime friend and confidante, Choi   to force big businesses to donate tens of millions of dollars to two foundations that Ms. Choi controlled. Ms. Park was also accused of letting Ms. Choi interfere with government affairs, despite having no official post. Ms. Park’s approval ratings dropped to record lows in the weeks before her impeachment, and huge crowds filled central Seoul calling on her to resign or be removed from office. Prosecutors have indicted Ms. Choi on extortion and other charges and identified Ms. Park as an accomplice, though as a sitting president she cannot be indicted. The National Assembly is conducting its own investigation of the scandal, as is a special prosecutor. Both Ms. Park and Ms. Choi have denied breaking the law. Prime Minister Hwang   is serving as acting president while Ms. Park is suspended. If the court removes her from office, a presidential election would be held 60 days later. On Thursday, the special prosecutor’s office said it was asking the authorities in Germany to detain and extradite Ms. Choi’s daughter, Chung   who is believed to be there. The Foreign Ministry said Ms. Chung’s passport would be invalidated if she did not return to South Korea. The special prosecutor is looking into allegations that Ms. Choi used millions of dollars from Samsung, South Korea’s largest conglomerate, to finance her daughter’s equestrian career and a luxurious lifestyle in Germany. A special prosecutor in South Korea has obtained a warrant to detain Ms. Chung for questioning. She is accused of illegally enrolling in Ewha Womans University in Seoul.