Karl Rove, the architect of George W. Bush’s victorious presidential campaigns and founder of a constellation of political   groups, has called Donald J. Trump “a complete idiot. ” He has described him as “graceless and divisive. ” He has said Mr. Trump’s boasts about beating Hillary Clinton in the polls are false. Mr. Trump has reacted with anger to such insults, calling Mr. Rove “sad” and questioning his record of success. But two weeks ago, Mr. Trump and Mr. Rove held a private meeting just as the presumptive Republican nominee was courting major party figures. The meeting took place at the Manhattan home of the casino magnate Steve Wynn, a mutual friend who brokered the   according to two people briefed on the meeting and who were granted anonymity to discuss the gathering. Mr. Trump’s campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski, described it as a “good meeting,” but did not elaborate. An aide to Mr. Wynn did not respond to an email seeking comment, and Mr. Rove similarly declined to respond. The purpose of the meeting was unclear, although Mr. Rove is the last strategist to help elect a Republican president, and Mr. Trump is lagging organizationally for the general election. If détente was the goal, the meeting did not appear to have a lasting effect: the morning after Mr. Trump’s freewheeling,   news conference last Tuesday, Mr. Rove was deeply critical of his performance. “I’m not certain it helps him with the people who are swing voters, up for grabs, and it certainly is very unpresidential,” Mr. Rove said on Fox News. “It would not be a good spectacle for our country to have a President Trump acting like candidate Trump acted yesterday. ” The tense relationship between Mr. Trump and Mr. Rove has deeper significance than just resolving their public sparring. Mr. Rove has longstanding relationships with many of the party’s biggest donors, and has intricate knowledge of how “super PACs” can help elect candidates. Mr. Rove also has a long relationship with Sheldon Adelson, another casino magnate who has said he would spend upward of $100 million to back Mr. Trump. Mr. Adelson and Mr. Trump met on Tuesday, their second meeting in the last few weeks. Mr. Rove has talked with Mr. Adelson about what super PAC to use as a vehicle for donating such a large sum of money to support Mr. Trump, including possibly using the Crossroads   groups, which he helped establish, according to people with knowledge of the discussions. Mr. Adelson is also discussing the possibility of creating a new entity that would back Mr. Trump, and has been holding talks with Nick Ayers, the former executive director of the Republican Governors Association, according to two people briefed on the discussions. Mr. Ayers’s involvement was first reported by the website Politico. Creating a new group would give Mr. Adelson more control over how his money is spent, at a moment when there are a number of super PACs that either exist or are being formed to support Mr. Trump’s bid. Other major donors, such as Rebekah Mercer, who supported the presidential campaign of Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, are considering backing Mr. Trump through other super PACs. Super PACs cannot coordinate with campaigns, and, so far, the Trump campaign hasn’t signaled formally whether any group has its tacit blessing. In two cases, former aides to the campaign have gone to work for super PACs that support Mr. Trump, despite “  periods” mandated by campaign finance laws when transitions like that take place. There is one super PAC supporting Mr. Trump that is run by a former aide to Ben Carson. Another proposed group, which would be backed by Tom Barrack, a financier and close friend of Mr. Trump, was created on Thursday, with more than $30 million in commitments, according to CNN. Another group is being advised by Edward J. Rollins, the strategist who was Ronald Reagan’s campaign manager and has deep ties to the Republican Party. That group has faced scrutiny over its   practices, although it has donor meetings planned with prominent figures such as the financier Julian H. Robertson Jr. But in a recent meeting with Mr. Trump, former Secretary of State James A. Baker III was critical of Mr. Rollins, according to two people briefed on the exchange. Mr. Rollins and Mr. Baker were rivals during the 1980 primary race between Mr. Reagan and the elder George Bush. In an email, Mr. Rollins said he had signed on to help in an unusual year. “If others think they can do it better, have at it!” said Mr. Rollins in an email. “It is going to be a tough and expensive campaign and I would assume Mr. Trump and his team would want all the help they can get!”