The Cedillo family was already running an hour late, so when the Range Rover stretch limo dropped them off at St. Agatha Church in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, Lucero Cedillo and her court of nine chambelanes, the equivalent of groomsmen, dashed out of the car. Lucero led the way, holding the hem of her strapless ball gown in one hand and a matching bouquet of silk garden roses in the other. Her parents, Alberta and Abundio Cedillo, followed. From a distance, the chambelanes could have easily been mistaken for cadets at a police academy graduation, walking in sync wearing black suits with gold aiguillettes around their right shoulders, eyes hidden under peaked hats with gold insignia. The Rev. Silvio A. Ortiz began the quinceañera Roman Catholic Mass by congratulating Lucero, who knelt before him at the altar. He blessed several items, including a porcelain doll, a symbol of Lucero’s childhood. Applause echoed through mostly empty pews. Then Lucero and her court scurried into the limo, heading for the party, a catered affair for 150 guests at a Greek Orthodox church hall in Bay Ridge. Widely celebrated among Latinos, the quinceañera marks an important milestone in a girl’s life. Part birthday party, part rite of passage, it symbolizes a girl’s entrance into womanhood when turning 15, traditionally showcasing her purity and readiness for marriage. But the quinceañera has also been Americanized. And the increasingly elaborate celebrations reflect the changing landscape of Latinos in the United States. In fact, Lucero’s quinceañera was not, strictly speaking, a quinceañera at all. The celebration, held in February, had many of the traditional trappings: a Mass, a catered bash with live music, and a ceremony in which Lucero’s transition to womanhood was marked by trading her flats for heels. But Lucero turned 15 a year ago this was an adapted Sweet 16. “I wanted to switch it up,” Lucero said. “I wanted to keep some of my parents’ traditions but celebrate at a different age. ” “It’s how it’s done in the United States,” she added. “The modern quinceañera has become the   manifestation of what it means to be visible in an American system on your own terms,” said Rachel V.   a folklorist and professor in the Department of Mexican American    Studies at the University of Texas at Austin. At the same time, she added, the celebrations create “a space that recalls your cultural heritage. ” Lucero initially felt reluctant to ask her parents for the party, calling it “a big waste of money on just one day. ” Contemporary quinceañeras do tend to have a hefty price tag. Event planners, bakers and caterers, hair stylists, makeup artists and D. J. s have all become part of what will soon be a   industry, said María Bejarano, director of Quinceañera Magazine, a trade publication. “When you put the numbers together, it’s stratospheric,” Ms. Bejarano said. “The quinceañera business is a monster that keeps on growing. ” The celebration has spawned specialized retailers, fashion expos, even a reality show, “Quiero Mis Quinces,” promoting custom parties. Disney’s “Frozen” was among the most popular themes last year, according to quinceañera store owners. Many girls are incorporating decidedly secular and   elements. They choreograph their traditional dance routines to mainstream pop music instead of waltzes. Lucero opened the dance floor to a Beyoncé mix. In 2013, Disney introduced a line of   quinceañera dresses, retailing for $300 to $900, and its theme parks offer catered events like the Belle of the Ball package, which starts at $20, 000. For an additional $2, 500, quinceañeras can make royal entrances in     carriages. In New York, a quinceañera celebration averages around $10, 000, according to Alfonso Caviedes, who owns Fantasy, a   dress shop in Jackson Heights, Queens. He offers a layaway system on dresses, which on average cost $600. “Some families cannot afford to pay for the dresses up front,” Mr. Caviedes said. Rosa Jimenez, who owns Bridal by Rosa’s in East Harlem, puts the typical cost even higher. “I would recommend that families set aside at least $15, 000,” she said. “It’s like a wedding. ” The median household income for Latinos in the United States in 2014 was just over $42, 000, according to the Census Bureau, and in New York City the figure is lower. But the high prices don’t dissuade families from celebrating. Villa Russo, an event hall in Queens, charges up to $18, 700 a night for 275 guests. About 30 quinceañeras a year are held there. Families book custom bakers, like Iva Velazquez in Brooklyn. Ms. Velazquez supplies cakes for 15 quinceañeras a year her prices can quickly run into the thousands, depending on sugar flowers, ruffles and other intricate details. Some have come to resent such extravagance. “Nowadays, families are disrespectful to the church,” said Ana Morales, quinceañera coordinator at St. Paul’s Church in East Harlem. “They bring in these loud musicians, like mariachis, to the quinceañera. The parties in the pews are taking pictures they are on their cellphones. They seem to have forgotten why they are in church. ” As a result, St. Paul’s has been less inclined to hold such Masses. “The quinceañera is a symbol of status and recognition,” Ms. Bejarano, the magazine director, said. “Families want to celebrate big. But it’s these strong ties to tradition that distract parents from thinking about how they will pay for their daughters’ future education. ” Professor   of the University of Texas, finds such criticism problematic. “People don’t tend to question lavish bat mitzvahs,” she said. “People make the assumptions that Jewish communities are more affluent, whereas Latino communities are stereotyped as impoverished. ” “It’s like talking to someone who is on a diet and saying, ‘You shouldn’t really eat that,’ and assuming that they don’t know what they are putting in their mouth,” she added. Lucero’s parents, cooks by trade, had been saving for this day for two years. Now both 50 years old, they immigrated to the United States from Mexico in their early 20s. “My parents grew up poor,” Lucero said. “They used to work in the fields. My mom, when she first got to the U. S. she used to work in factories. My mom never had a quince, so she told me, ‘I didn’t have a chance, but you do! ’” “Of course this is a sacrifice for us,” Mr. Cedillo acknowledged. “But we don’t see it that way. This is tradition. Lucero is a good daughter, and she deserves a party. ” The quinceañera appeals to both new immigrants and those established for several generations, Professor   said, but for different reasons. For newer arrivals, it’s about “creating a display of affluence,” she said. For   or   Latino Americans, the quinceañera has become a way to reclaim traditions with which they’ve lost touch. Staging these elaborate celebrations requires a system of patronage, particularly in Mexican communities, in both Mexico and the United States. The girl’s parents reach out to relatives and friends to help pay for everything from the limo to the beer. Lucero’s godparents  —   12 relatives and friends had been selected  —   helped cover the celebration’s cost: around $13, 000. At the church hall in Bay Ridge, Lucero walked slowly between two columns of chambelanes as they held their costume swords. When she arrived at a white throne, two of her godparents handed her a long, bedazzled scepter and placed a crystal tiara atop her carefully curled hair. Mr. Cedillo knelt before his daughter with a silk pillow holding sparkling silver shoes. Lucero lifted her ball gown just enough to let her feet emerge from the layers of fabric. He removed her flats, swapping them for the   heels. The moment, a traditional part of the quinceañera, is supposed to be the first time a young girl wears high heels and dances with a man. This was not quite the case with Lucero. “I’ve danced since I was 9,” she said after the party. “This is definitely not the first time I’ve put on heels. ” At nearly 1 a. m. the staff was clearing away empty plates. Lucero’s parents called up the godparents and handed each a basket of fruit and blankets as thanks for their sponsorship and attendance. The family huddled to say a prayer. Then the lights dimmed and banda  —   traditional   Mexican music  —   blasted through the speakers. Lucero’s father and uncle emerged from the kitchen, carrying a roasted pig on their shoulders. The guests had formed a running circle around the dance floor, and Lucero joined them after changing into a   cream dress. Soon she was dancing barefoot to her own manic adolescent rhythm, her sparkling high heels clutched tightly at her side.