LONDON  —   British voters will go to the polls this month to decide whether their country should remain in the European Union. As the date, June 23, approaches, the “leave” and “remain” campaigns are dialing up the volume, with claims and counterclaims flying, many with only a tenuous relationship to facts. According to those who favor leaving the bloc, Britain is the victim of faceless, highly compensated bureaucrats in Brussels who meet in secret and churn out    regulations costing businesses billions of pounds a year. They say British citizens are subjected to taxes and other measures by a supposedly unaccountable European Parliament, while Britain as a whole sends far more money each year to Brussels than it gets back. Above all, perhaps, they say Britain is virtually powerless to stop the influx of migrants  —   more than 300, 000 arrived last year. Those who support remaining in the bloc play down those issues, focusing on what a seemingly inexhaustible supply of government officials, economists, bankers and business executives call the dire consequences of leaving: a weakened currency, job losses, slower growth, depressed trade, the end of London’s status as a world financial capital and a loss of influence in European affairs. Immigrants, just over half from European Union member states, give the economy energy, youth and creativity, they say, contributing to the economic vitality that makes multicultural London the envy of the world. Some have called the campaign the “Trumpification of politics” in Britain. With dubious assertions flying around, the debate can appear unseemly. Here are a few of the claims, and some judgments about their veracity:  The “Leave” side says: Britain sends 350 million pounds a week to the European Union. According to the U. K. Statistics Authority, Britain owed a gross contribution to the European Union of 19. 1 billion pounds, or about $28 billion, in 2014. That’s £367 million a week. However, Britain gets an immediate rebate off the top, negotiated in 1984 by Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, so it actually sent £14. 7 billion, or £283 million a week, in 2014. Brussels also returns money to Britain for sectors including agriculture, regional development, science and universities. The actual net contribution from Britain is about £9. 9 billion a year. That’s about £190 million a week, a little more than half of what Vote Leave claims. It is roughly 0. 5 percent of British gross domestic product and around 1. 3 percent of the current British budget of about £770 billion. _____ The “Remain” side says: Three million jobs in Britain depend on membership in the European Union.  Doubtful. The original study simply said that “3. 45 million jobs depend upon exports to the E. U. ” But there is no question that Britain would continue to export to the European Union and elsewhere even if it left the bloc. Trade might be more complicated and expensive outside the single market, but the United States and China, to name just two countries, do a lot of trade with the European Union without being members. _____ “Leave” says: Britain has lost 75 percent of the 131 cases brought against it before the European Court of Justice, and thus has lost a crucial element of sovereignty.  True, at least the first part. But the European Commission, for example, brings only cases it thinks it can win. And 91 of the cases were brought by the commission because of Britain’s failure to put in effect European law, as it is obligated to do. France, by comparison, has lost 90 percent of the last 50 cases brought to the court. _____ “Remain” says: A British exit would cost each household £4, 300 a year by 2030. It depends on your assumptions, but some loss of national income is inevitable. Those who favor staying in the bloc cite a study by the British Treasury that looked at three alternatives to European Union membership. For comparison, the Treasury chose one, a negotiated bilateral agreement with the European Union, like the ones the bloc has with Switzerland and Norway. The figure cited represents an annual loss of gross domestic product per household after 15 years, estimating 6. 2 percent lower growth nationally by 2030. But this does not translate to cash, and it is based on numerous assumptions. And, of course, there is no way of knowing what kind of relationship Britain would have with the European Union after a   Brexit. Michael Gove, a leader of the “leave” campaign, has said Britain would not want a bilateral deal that required it to accept freedom of movement and labor, so it would choose a simpler World Trade Organization relationship with the European Union, like the ones held by Brazil and Russia. That kind of relationship, the Treasury suggests, would mean a bigger annual loss of G. D. P. per household by 2030 of £5, 200. Still, every alternative the Treasury examined would reduce G. D. P. a position accepted by most economists. _____ “Leave” says: “Uncontrolled migration” imposes “huge unfunded pressures on the N. H. S. and on other public services,” said Boris Johnson, the former mayor of London, referring to the National Health Service. Pressures, absolutely. Unfunded, not exactly. An estimated 85 percent of   European Union citizens in Britain are economically active, contributing a net £22 billion to the Treasury. But is immigration “uncontrolled”? Citizens of European Union countries have the right to live and work in any member state. But Britain, which is not a part of the Schengen zone of largely   travel, has the right to check everyone at its borders and can deny entry for a host of reasons. Net annual migration to Britain rose slightly, to 333, 000, in 2015, according to the Office for National Statistics. European Union citizens made up 55 percent of that figure (184, 000). Britons migrate to other European Union countries, too, especially retirees who can live more cheaply elsewhere and still get free medical benefits. About 300, 000 Britons left the country last year  —   more than the 184, 000 European Union citizens who moved to Britain. About one million Britons live in Spain, about 255, 000 in Ireland and about 175, 000 in France Britain has taken substantial measures to try to reduce immigration, raising the skills requirement for   Union citizens and reducing incentives for European Union citizens coming into the country for   jobs. As for strains that immigration puts on public services, there is no question. Rapid population increases in some cities and towns across Britain have put pressure on hospitals, housing, schools and policing. Since the 2000s, the East Midlands and Northern England have experienced the biggest percentage increases in    populations. Boston, a town of 67, 000 in the Midlands, experienced a sixfold increase in   residents, driving many people out of town for doctors’ appointments and emergencies because practitioners in town were overstretched. At one point, the town’s Council arranged for children to be taken by taxi to schools in neighboring towns because there were not enough places locally. The crisis eased somewhat as increased tax revenue, a result of the growing population, helped finance new schools and hospitals. A 2011 government study found that national spending per person on health care attributed to foreigners, who are mostly young adults, was lower than for Britons spending on education was higher, but outlays for government aid for both groups were comparable. But immigrants also contribute substantially to the National Health Service, which relies on them to function. Immigrants make up at least 20 percent of the service’s work force. There is a chronic shortage of nurses, radiologists and emergency medicine specialists, among others, according to a government list of occupation shortages. About a third of nursing shifts covered by agency staff hired by the National Health Service are immigrants with temporary visas. _____ “Remain” says: A British exit from the bloc would throw the country into recession and result in a loss of 500, 000 jobs, lower wages and lower house prices. The cost of vacations would also go up by an average of £230, Prime Minister David Cameron says. The macroenomic claims cite a Treasury study looking at the   economic effects of leaving the European Union, modeled on economic assumptions about the level of “shock” a departure would bring  —   regular or severe  —   and on estimates for a weaker pound. Economists from both sides of the membership debate agree that there would be a   economic shock and slower growth. But estimates of how much vary, and the Treasury’s numbers are considered a bit pessimistic, but generally correct. As for   vacations, Mr. Cameron points to the likelihood of a weaker pound, coupled with increased airfares and higher cellphone roaming charges. By 2018, he says, the cost for four people to take a   vacation in Spain would be £225 more. For two weeks in the United States, it would be £620 more. Again, there are many assumptions. But those who favor remaining in the European Union hope that voters will take note of the specific figures, even if based on unprovable estimates and judgments about the future. _____ “Leave” says: The British economy is choking on a mass of regulations from Brussels. To some extent, the truth is in the eye of the beholder on this one. The House of Commons Library has warned that “there is no totally accurate, rational or useful way of calculating the percentage of national laws based on or influenced by the European Union,” concluding that it is “possible to justify any measure between 15 percent and 50 percent or thereabouts. ” Britain has the   regulated economy in Europe, after the Netherlands, according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, and the “remain” campaign says many European Union regulations are aimed at maintaining market competition and, on balance, save Britain about $30 billion a year. _____  “Leave” says: Not only does the European Union rule on the curvature of bananas, it will not allow them to be sold in bunches larger than three, Mr. Johnson said. There is no rule on how, or how many, bananas may be sold. Mr. Johnson has also said that after leaving the union, “U. K. asparagus will be just as sprouting, just as delicious, in fact even better!”   The proof of the pudding is in the eating.