A firearm that the authorities said was used on Sunday in a mass shooting at a nightclub in Orlando, Fla. is a descendant of one of the world’s most widely distributed and familiar infantry weapons, and a type of rifle that has been involved in previous mass shootings in the United States. Chief John Mina of the Orlando Police Department said the gunman’s weapons included a handgun and an “   assault rifle. ” The first   were designed in the 1950s by Eugene M. Stoner, a Marine and inventor, who developed the weapon to military standards and for military service. It was an atypical rifle for its time, seemingly futuristic, and made partly with lightweight plastics and aluminum that traditionalists scorned. It fired a     bullet  —   a . 223  —   that was also considered revolutionary. The rifle was capable, via a selector lever, of semiautomatic or automatic fire. In the 1960s, under Defense Secretary Robert S. McNamara, the Pentagon bought vast quantities of the rifle, calling it the   for American ground troops in Vietnam. The  ’s firepower and reputation for lethality were necessary, in Mr. McNamara’s view, to counter the Kalashnikov assault rifles carried by the North Vietnamese Army and Vietcong. In this way, the   and the Kalashnikov became a related pair, the assault rifle of the West springing into service as a response to the more widely distributed assault rifle of the East. A   later,   and   are made in varied forms by multiple manufacturers, and updated versions, including the   carbine, remain the standard   weapon for most American service members and many allies. Civilian versions have many trade and model names, but are generally referred to as   although this name is a rough description and does not indicate whether a particular specimen of the rifle is capable of both semiautomatic fire and automatic fire, or is semiautomatic only. The police have not said whether the weapon recovered in Orlando was capable of automatic fire. Such questions are politically contentious, although depending on a shooter’s skill and the situation, they can sometimes be moot, as aimed semiautomatic fire from a competent shooter can be far more dangerous than automatic fire, which is harder to control and is often inaccurate.   that fire only on semiautomatic are generally legal in the United States, and are widely owned by   enthusiasts. They are also sometimes used in crimes, and have been involved in some of the most deadly mass shootings in American history, including the massacre in December in San Bernardino, Calif. which killed 14 people, and the attack in 2012 at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn. which killed 26 people, 20 of them children. (That gunman also killed his mother at home before driving to the school.) The  ’s once unfamiliar caliber  —   commonly called 5.   —   also evolved into a military standard. The    combination can cause serious wounds, though the damage is determined partly by the type of bullet fired. Investigators in Orlando have yet to provide details on the bullets that were fired in the attack.