LOS ANGELES  —   Corporate media giants always want what’s cool and edgy until what’s cool and edgy threatens the status quo that keeps the billions flooding in. The comedian Bill Maher was the textbook case for the bygone era of the   universe, after ABC bought his hit show, “Politically Incorrect,” away from Comedy Central. Just after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, Mr. Maher said that it was wrong to refer to the hijackers as cowards, and that the United States was more cowardly for its strategy of going after enemies with cruise missiles from afar. The White House denounced him, advertisers and affiliates flipped out, and a few months later ABC cut him loose. HBO swept in to give him a   home where he continues to joke, inform and offend to this day. I headed West last week to investigate what looked to me like a   version of the Maher tale, involving something more powerful than the White House: the National Football League. In this case, our protagonist, Bill Simmons, is not a bitingly funny comedian, but a bitingly influential sportswriter and commentator, who for 14 years was one of ESPN’s biggest stars. ESPN, which spends some $1. 9 billion a year for N. F. L. rights, let Mr. Simmons go last year, after he repeatedly, and colorfully, criticized Roger Goodell, the N. F. L. commissioner, over his handling of two embarrassing scandals  —   the New England Patriots’ alleged cheating case, known as “Deflategate,” and the league’s lackluster domestic violence investigation of the Baltimore Ravens running back Ray Rice. Once again, HBO swept in, giving Mr. Simmons a new talk show about sports and pop culture called “Any Given Wednesday” that makes its debut on June 22. And this month Mr. Simmons introduced his new multimedia company, The Ringer, whose main site is inspired by the   sports and pop culture hub he founded at ESPN, Grantland, and features much of its main editorial team. Mr. Maher’s story was about government’s potential to chill free speech during war and the redemptive power of television when it is freed from advertising pressures. Mr. Simmons’s situation is a bit more complicated, especially when you take ESPN’s version of it into account, which I’ll get to. But it does raise questions about how media conglomerates that rely on the N. F. L. for ratings and revenue handle criticism of the league as it faces deepening concerns about its culture and the health of its players. Yet, Mr. Simmons’s story also offers hope that firebrands like him can find ways to operate independently at this opportune time in media. When I visited Mr. Simmons in his suite at the Sunset Gower Studios last week, he was excited for his fresh start, but still a little raw about ESPN. He had just issued a public apology to his old colleagues there for his quote in The Hollywood Reporter asking, “Who would work there that you respect right now?” “I read it and I was like, ‘Oh, I don’t feel that way, I wish I hadn’t said that,’” Mr. Simmons said. The incident played into criticism from ESPN executives that Mr. Simmons can be petulant and disrespectful of rival colleagues. Yet it was also in keeping with the   style that ESPN hired him for. Mr. Simmons, 46, came to ESPN from AOL’s Boston “Digital City” site, where he wrote a column called “Boston’s Sports Guy. ” In that job, he could not get press passes, he said, because, “It was the internet. They were like, ‘What? No. ’” So he set out to write about sports the way he was watching them, on the tube, and in the brutally honest and sometimes   language of the sports bar  —   as an outsider. It meant breaking from tradition with contemporary pop culture references (if a scene from “90210” came to mind, he’d say so) praise for players he loved, contempt for owners, players and commissioners he didn’t. ESPN first noticed him after he eviscerated the company’s own sports awards program, the ESPYs, which he called a “TV holocaust. ” Over all, it was a fruitful relationship that earned him accolades and made him millions. He starred on “NBA Countdown,” helped to create the successful ESPN documentary series “30 for 30” and founded Grantland, which earned three national magazine award nominations in 2015. His podcast, “The B. S. Report,” was ESPN’s most popular. Yet Mr. Simmons’s   feral side often broke glass inside ESPN, which blanched at some of his stunts  —   a porn star in his fantasy basketball league?  —   and twice banned him from using Twitter after he wrote posts criticizing colleagues. Things started falling apart after Mr. Simmons called Mr. Goodell “a liar” for saying the league had not known what was contained in a damning video of Mr. Rice punching his fiancée unconscious when it initially handed Mr. Rice a light,   suspension. (The tape had been leaked to TMZ.) Mr. Simmons followed that by daring ESPN to “Call me and say I’m in trouble. ” His   suspension followed. Mr. Simmons says he now regrets the dare. But, he said, he was just fulfilling his role as a “disrupter,” if an imperfect one. That was what he planned to tell Disney’s chief executive, Robert A. Iger  —   a proponent of disruption  —   when he went to Mr. Iger’s office several months after his suspension. Mr. Simmons did not get to make his point. “He was like, ‘You know, when you go after Roger, it’s really hard for us we want you to do it respectfully,’” Mr. Simmons said of Mr. Iger’s counsel. “And I was like, ‘I think that’s fair. I can be relentless on him but I’ve got to do it respectfully. ”’ “Respectfully” is not what came to mind when, a few weeks later, Mr. Simmons questioned Mr. Goodell’s “testicular fortitude” in his handling of Deflategate. The next day, ESPN’s president, John Skipper, announced that Mr. Simmons’ contract would not be renewed. Mr. Simmons says he wonders if something else was at play. A few months after his ouster, Mr. Iger emerged as a champion of a proposed new stadium near Los Angeles that would have been shared by the San Diego Chargers and a relocated Oakland Raiders team  —   with an option to buy a stake in either team. “One of my working theories was, maybe this was driven by Iger because he wants a team. ” Disney declined to comment. But when I reached out to ESPN for a response, Mr. Skipper sent me this: “Bill would rather spin conspiracy theories and be perceived as a martyr than take responsibility for his own actions. Let me be unequivocal and clear and take responsibility for my actions: I alone made the decision, and it had nothing to do with his comments about the commissioner. I severed our relationship with Bill because of his repeated lack of respect for this company and, more importantly, the people who work here. ” The network, which has beefed up its investigative reporting staff in recent years, also disputed any notion that it goes easy on the N. F. L. sending me citations for some 70 critical items about the league. And the “Outside the Lines” investigation of the Rice case by Don Van Natta Jr. and Kevin Van Valkenburg, which influenced Mr. Simmons by describing “a pattern of misinformation and misdirection” at the league, was as tough as they come. That work is definitely worth noting. But so is ESPN’s decision in 2013 to withdraw from a   documentary with “Frontline” about the N. F. L. ’s “concussion crisis” under pressure from the league, as my colleagues James Andrew Miller and Ken Belson reported then. (ESPN denied it was buckling to the N. F. L.) Surely, when a large part of your business rests with the most powerful sports league in the country, you’re probably going to watch your p’s and q’s. Mr. Simmons said he came up against this when he was seeking new partners and met with Showtime’s president, David Nevins, and Mr. Nevins’s boss, the CBS chairman Les Moonves. “I really liked Moonves, and he was totally honest,” Mr. Simmons said. “He was just like, you know, this is my biggest partner”  —   meaning the N. F. L. “I can’t figure out how we would make this work. ” CBS had no comment. One presumes neither Mr. Moonves nor Mr. Iger would ask their news divisions to stand down from real N. F. L. reporting. And ESPN says it keeps a “church and state” wall between business and journalism. But where’s the line between being “respectful” and being overly sparing with necessary criticism? The question is important, given the current national discussion about football and concussions. That conversation is taking place in a media environment in which the N. F. L. is that rare content producer that can deliver huge audiences for live programming, where the power of the   ad endures. Expelled from the monolith, Mr. Simmons is undergoing recovery in a media market hungry for fresh programming. “I’m a proven content maker at a time when it’s great to be that,” he said. Mr. Simmons says he will cover a range of topics, including football, when he joins the same program lineup as Mr. Maher on HBO  —   a network with no commercials, no boundaries and no slate of N. F. L. games.