LONDON  —   The man charged with murdering the British lawmaker Jo Cox made his first court appearance on Saturday, telling the court when asked his name, “My name is death to traitors, freedom for Britain. ” Thomas Mair, 52, had been charged earlier Saturday with murder and several other offenses, including inflicting grievous bodily harm and possession of a firearm. Mr. Mair, of the town of Birstall, appeared briefly at Westminster Magistrates’ Court in London. Once charges have been brought, British media law prohibits any reporting about the case that might prejudice a trial. Ms. Cox, 41, a member of Parliament who advocated for immigrants’ causes, was gunned down on Thursday outside a library in Birstall, a town near the city of Leeds in northern England, as she was wrapping up a meeting with constituents. A    man was also slightly injured in the attack. Her death came just days before a referendum on whether Britain should leave the European Union, and it led to an immediate suspension of campaigning on both sides out of respect for her memory. But Vote Leave, which supports Britain’s departure from the   bloc, said Friday that it would resume campaigning over the weekend. Issues of immigration and national identity have been central to the occasionally bitter clashes over the referendum, and critics say the tone of the debate has verged on racism and xenophobia. The killing of Ms. Cox  —   the first of a sitting member of Parliament since the Irish Republican Army assassinated Ian Gow, a Conservative lawmaker, in 1990  —   elicited an outpouring of sympathy in Britain, where gun ownership is strictly regulated. Ms. Cox, a member of the opposition Labour Party, was elected to Parliament to represent the area of Batley and Spen only in May 2015. But she had already established a strong reputation. Prime Minister David Cameron and his rival Jeremy Corbyn, the leader of the Labour Party, both praised her as a rising star in British politics. President Obama was reported to have called Ms. Cox’s husband to offer condolences. “The president noted that the world is a better place because of her selfless service to others, and that there can be no justification for this heinous crime, which robbed a family, a community, and a nation of a dedicated wife, mother, and public servant,” Sky News reported, citing the White House.