A traditionally reliable indicator, lurking in a recent opinion poll, suggests Britain will vote on Thursday to remain in the European Union. The main question that polling firms typically ask respondents in any contest is how they intend to vote. In the case of the referendum on “Brexit,” as a possible British exit from the E. U. is known, the polls straightforwardly ask people if they want to remain in the union or leave. After a string of polls showing a sizable lead for “leave,” polls released in the last few days effectively show a tie, or a small lead for remaining. This shift away from “leave” prompted a rally in global markets on Monday. But one of those polls, conducted by Survation, also asked voters which side they expected to win. Asking people to predict a result of an election has, over time, provided more accurate forecasts than asking people their voting intentions, according to a study by Justin Wolfers, a University of Michigan economist and an Upshot contributor, and David Rothschild, of the Microsoft Research and Statistics Center. When Survation asked, “Regardless of how you plan to vote, what do you think the result will be?” just shy of 40 percent of people said the “remain” camp would win. Only 26 percent said that “leave” would prevail. The remaining 34 percent said they did not know what the result would be. Mr. Rothschild said the “don’t know” figure is high for this sort of question. But he noted that undecided voters tend to support the status quo, in part because they are more   and may be less informed. Also notable: Supporters of the leave camp don’t seem to have a high level of confidence that their side will prevail. Some 35 percent of “leave” supporters said they thought “remain” would win. By contrast, only 14 percent of “remain” supporters predicted that “leave” would win. Of course, this is not a guaranteed indicator the Brexit referendum may be a vote that reveals its limitations. All things considered, though, “remain” seems to be in a strong position in these last days before the vote. The surge in the polls for “leave” appears to have been stalled, or even reversed. The betting markets suggest a roughly 75 percent chance of a victory for “remain. ”