Donald J. Trump delivered a blistering attack on Wednesday against Hillary Clinton, calling her unreliable and more concerned with herself than with the American people as he sought to regain his footing after a tumultuous month that imperiled his candidacy. In a   speech seeking to build his case against the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee by labeling her a “  liar,” Mr. Trump moved to soothe concerns among Republicans alarmed by gaping   wounds after his racial attacks on a federal judge and his   boast after the terrorist shooting in Orlando, Fla. He said Mrs. Clinton would not create jobs, portraying her as a   former secretary of state who “may be the most corrupt person ever to seek the presidency. ” “The choice in this election is a choice between taking our government back from the special interests, or surrendering our last scrap of independence to their total and complete control,” Mr. Trump said. The professionalized presentation, with two teleprompters flanking the lectern in a   ballroom of the Trump SoHo hotel in Manhattan, represented a stark contrast to how Mr. Trump has handled the last month of his campaign, and came two days after he fired his   campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski. Since securing the Republican nomination, Mr. Trump has allowed himself to be pummeled by Democrats, doing little to fashion an overarching message or even to frame his view of the race. But on Wednesday, he moved to regain the offensive, making a forceful case that he chose to enter public service because of his concerns for the country, a contrast he tried to draw with Mrs. Clinton. “She believes she is entitled to the office,” Mr. Trump said. “Her campaign slogan is ‘I’m with her.’ You know what my response to that is? I’m with you, the American people. She thinks it’s all about her. I know it’s all about you. ” The remarks were welcomed by Mr. Trump’s supporters, who have fretted that he is turning the campaign into a referendum on himself instead of President Obama and Mrs. Clinton. Carl Paladino, a Trump ally who was in the room for the speech, said that the candidate “likes to speak extemporaneously” but that his more scripted approach on Wednesday was necessary. “He told everybody why Hillary shouldn’t be there, he gave a factual foundation for those statements,” Mr. Paladino said. “That type of speech has to be scripted. ” Mr. Trump has promised turnarounds in his undisciplined approach before, only to undercut his own remarks in a day or two with a Twitter blast or provocative public remarks. And on Thursday, he heads to Scotland, a business trip tied to his golf courses. The Manhattan address highlighted an intensifying level of combat between Mr. Trump and Mrs. Clinton, who in Raleigh, N. C. on Wednesday shot back at the Manhattan businessman for questioning her commitment to her faith just a day before. “As we Methodists like to say,” she told hundreds of supporters, pausing for effect and knowing applause, “do all the good you can for all the people you can in all the ways you can. ” Later, she suggested that Mr. Trump’s speech on Wednesday was part of an effort to distract voters from his lack of substance or policy depth. “That’s even why he’s attacking my faith,” she said. “Sigh. ” Mr. Trump sought to portray Mrs. Clinton as responsible for the tumult in the Middle East, but her campaign tried to deprive the speech of attention by announcing that she had received the endorsement of Brent Scowcroft, the national security adviser to Presidents Gerald R. Ford and George Bush. Mr. Trump explicitly blamed her for the death of United States Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens during the Sept. 11, 2012, attack on a diplomatic outpost in Libya. Mr. Trump began his speech with a focused message about jobs and the economy, lamenting a lost era in the United States of bringing change on a grand scale, and the absence of his signature boastfulness added gravitas. But the address was denounced by Mr. Trump’s critics as a patchwork of    sound bites as opposed to a presentation of new ideas. Mr. Trump did little to lay out specifics of his agenda beyond attacking trade deals and immigration. And his new, more sober approach was undercut by factual inaccuracies and embellishments, as well as flimsy claims  —   at one point, Mr. Trump suggested that Mrs. Clinton was probably the victim of blackmail from Chinese hackers who gained access to her email account while she was the secretary of state. Mr. Trump quoted extensively from the book “Clinton Cash,” written by a Republican author who was forced to correct several inaccuracies after the book went to press. He said the United States was the “highest taxed country in the world,” which is not true. He said there might be five Supreme Court vacancies for the next president to fill, a number that has not been suggested before. Mr. Trump overtly appealed to supporters of Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont to back him instead of Mrs. Clinton, borrowing from the senator’s own words to describe her as unfit for office. “Hillary Clinton wants to be president, but she doesn’t have the temperament, or, as Bernie Sanders said, the judgment, to be president,” Mr. Trump said. “When I see the crumbling roads and bridges, or the dilapidated airports, or the factories moving overseas to Mexico or to other countries, I know these problems can all be fixed, but not by Hillary Clinton,” Mr. Trump said, adding, “Only by me. ” Mr. Trump did use the speech to sand down the edges of his past remarks about Muslims, acknowledging that some people who follow Islam are “peaceful” while never mentioning his proposed ban on Muslim immigrants. With the speech, Mr. Trump was trying to amplify Mrs. Clinton’s high negative poll ratings with voters, a majority of whom view her as dishonest, as he seeks to alter the current trajectory of the presidential campaign. He seized on controversies surrounding the Clinton Foundation and her tenure at the State Department to accuse her of “theft,” adding, “She ran the State Department like her own personal hedge fund. ” But Mr. Trump, who once lamented in an interview that the turn of the century was the last time America was “great,” provided a hopeful message, suggesting the advent of a second industrial revolution during his presidency. “Massive new factories will come roaring into our country,” he said, “breathing life and hope into our communities. ” That theme, accompanied by his attacks on free trade, is one that Mr. Trump employed to great effect in the nominating fight, and some of his aides believe it could appeal to Sanders supporters in a general election. While Mr. Sanders has yet to endorse Mrs. Clinton, he balked at the idea that his followers would support Mr. Trump. “I suspect he ain’t going to get too many of those people,” Mr. Sanders said on   when asked about Mr. Trump’s courting of his supporters. “I think the vast majority of the people who voted for me understand that Donald Trump, in a dozen different ways, is literally unfit to be president of the United States. ”