SYDNEY, Australia  —   The two men seeking to emerge as Australia’s prime minister after national elections on Saturday, Malcolm Turnbull and Bill Shorten, have begun a delicate courtship of a handful of lawmakers who are likely to hold the balance of power in the next Parliament. Officials will resume counting votes on Tuesday for about a dozen seats that are too close to call. The Liberal Party, now governing in a coalition with the National Party, said postal and   ballots that were yet to be counted would be crucial to its securing a   majority in the   House of Representatives. As of Monday, neither the Liberal National coalition, led by Mr. Turnbull, nor the Labor Party, led by Mr. Shorten, had won enough seats to form a government outright. Vote counting stopped in the early hours of Sunday with the governing coalition at 67 seats and the Labor Party at 71, the Electoral Commission said. If neither side can form a clear majority government, the party that secures the support of enough   lawmakers to control at least 76 seats can form a government. “Australian voters are changing,” said Bob Katter, an independent member whose electorate covers about 193, 000 square miles of central Queensland, an area double the size of Britain. “In the past, I could run around and kiss babies and mouth party platitudes and expect to get ” Mr. Katter said in a telephone interview on Monday. But that was when he was a member of the National Party, he said, adding that now, candidates must be much more responsive to the needs of their constituents. Mr. Katter, the leader of Katter’s Australian Party, easily won his rural seat. The lawmakers viewed as crucial to the next government  —   five independents, including Mr. Katter, and one from the Greens  —   have not met to discuss forming a voting bloc, and they are from diverse electorates. Mr. Katter, who once ran a   cattle ranch, said he had had “  talks” with both leaders but had not reached an agreement with either. Wooing the swing lawmakers is likely to be troublesome. “They are very different candidates,” said Jill Sheppard, a political scientist at the Australian National University. “Their electorates are spread out and have very different needs. ” Australia has been here before. In 2010, the Labor Party, then led by Julia Gillard, signed agreements with independents and the Greens to secure the seats it needed to form a government. Three of those lawmakers agreed to vote in a bloc if there was a stalemate over legislation. But Andrew Wilkie, an independent and a former intelligence officer who entered Parliament in 2010, tore up his contract with Ms. Gillard two years later when she backed out of a deal with him to introduce restrictions on poker machines. Mr. Wilkie, who is from Tasmania, the most southern state in Australia, described that dispute and his time working with the Labor Party as so traumatic that he said he would not sign on with either side in this election. Mr. Turnbull telephoned Mr. Wilkie on Sunday. “It was as much ensuring that the channels of communications are open,” Mr. Wilkie told ABC television. “I went to this election with a position that I would not enter into any formal agreement with any party to allow them to form a government, and nothing has changed. ” Another independent, Cathy McGowan, a former teacher and farmer from rural northeastern Victoria, said much the same. “I am proudly independent, and I won’t be making any deals,” she said in a statement issued on Monday. Mr. Turnbull and Mr. Shorten had both called her to congratulate her on her victory, she said. Adam Bandt, the Greens candidate, who will occupy the House seat representing the inner city of Melbourne, said he would support a Labor government but would not sign onto a coalition to help it secure the right to govern. The Greens did agree to help Ms. Gillard form a government in 2010. In return, the party asked for almost $10 billion in clean energy investments, a tax on carbon consumption and free dental care for children of families with low incomes. Prime Minister Tony Abbott ended the carbon tax in 2014. The team of Senator Nick Xenophon from South Australia, which appeared to have won one lower house seat and has said a second may fall its way after a recount, said it would negotiate with either party to form a majority government. South Australia, sometimes described as Australia’s Rust Belt state, appears likely to lose its major steel manufacturer and automobile industry. The loss of the steel plant alone could cost 6, 000 jobs, in a state that has a population of about 1. 6 million. In the prelude to the election, Mr. Turnbull announced that South Australia would receive a share of a $37. 5 billion contract to help a French company build Australia’s new fleet of submarines. The terms of an alliance between the Xenophon team and either major party have not been broached. “It is about achieving the best outcomes for the electorates, and the state of South Australia, but also outcomes that are in the national interest,” said Stirling Griff of Adelaide, who will enter the Senate for the first time as a Xenophon team member. Further complicating matters, Mr. Shorten has called on Mr. Turnbull to quit. Some analysts say Australia could be without an effective government for more than a week. Having to negotiate with independent lawmakers over legislation “will be chaotic,” Mr. Katter said. “But it is also what we call democracy here. ”