WASHINGTON  —   Take it from a corrupt lobbyist: When it comes to peddling influence and buying politicians, the Supreme Court just doesn’t get it. Jack Abramoff, the former superlobbyist who ended up in prison, said he fears the court’s unanimous decision to toss out the bribery conviction of Bob McDonnell, the   of Virginia, reflects a regrettable innocence about how things work in the real world. “I continue to be concerned by what seems to be a lack of understanding on the part of the justices that a little bit of money can breed corruption,” Mr. Abramoff said when I asked him about the McDonnell case. “When somebody petitioning a public servant for action provides any kind of extra resources  —   money or a gift or anything  —   that affects the process,” Mr. Abramoff said. He should know. Once a man with   Republican connections and easy access to the White House and Capitol leadership suites, Mr. Abramoff and his partners were masters of spreading favors around Washington. They parceled out tickets to major sporting events, escorted influential officials on    golf junkets, paid the tabs for lavish dinners and cozied up to politicians at Signatures, a restaurant Mr. Abramoff once owned on Pennsylvania Avenue. All the while they were soliciting and obtaining help on issues ranging from gambling to wages to tax policy. It all came crashing down ignominiously in January 2006, when Mr. Abramoff pleaded guilty to conspiracy, fraud and tax offenses, ending his career and landing members of his inner circle behind bars with him. Dealings with Mr. Abramoff also sent Bob Ney, a former Republican representative from Ohio, to the penitentiary and contributed to the downfall of Tom DeLay of Texas, the powerful No. 2 House Republican. Mr. Abramoff, now chastened and repentant, spent nearly four years in prison. Since his release, he has spoken out against the dangers of what he says is an inherently corrupt system where financial aid and other perks are provided to politicians who only naturally take care of benefactors they consider friends. “People come to think those seeking favors and giving you things are your friends, your buddies,” he said, remembering his own days as an insider. “Human nature is such that your natural inclination is, ‘He has done something for me, what can I do for him?’ The minute that has crept into the public service discussion, that is a problem. ” Such favors were at the heart of the case against Mr. McDonnell. During a period of personal financial turmoil, he received a Rolex, loans, trips, clothing and other benefits from Jonnie R. Williams Sr. a wealthy businessman who was seeking the governor’s help in securing state testing of a dietary supplement. While the governor arranged meetings, made recommendations and appeared with Mr. Williams, the court ruled that he may never have committed an “official act” on Mr. Williams’s behalf and that the jury should have received clearer instructions on that point. To many observers, the court essentially said that a politician can be found guilty of corruption only if the government can definitively show an official “quo” in response to a benefactor’s “quid”  —   a very high bar in a world of winks and nods. “When you have a system that defines the line between illegal and legal as it does, there are ways of kind of working through it,” Mr. Abramoff said. “Maybe 95 percent or 99 percent of what I did wasn’t really illegal. ” The court’s decision was quietly celebrated by politicians who believe that prosecutors who are intent on criminalizing ordinary political wheeling and dealing have overreached in a number of cases and needed to be slapped down. They worry that too wide a net could eventually ensnare them and their colleagues. But the ruling was loudly protested by   advocates who worried that the court had thrown open the door to more misdeeds and undermined already flagging public confidence in government. “This is an absolutely terrible message to the public at the worst possible time, when our campaigns are being flooded with huge contributions that are going to buy influence in the future,” said Fred Wertheimer, a longtime campaign watchdog and the president of Democracy 21, a group that pushes for government transparency. “The court forgot about the public. ” The decision was the latest in which the court has seemed to play down, even minimize, the power of money to influence outcomes. The justices did not seem persuaded that donations, trips or expensive meals could make politicians beholden to the giver. After all, the justices themselves take free trips to fancy locales to meet and speak with private groups. In this case, the court seemed to accept Mr. McDonnell’s argument that his efforts on behalf of Mr. Williams amounted to routine constituent work, something he might have done without the watch or the $15, 000 for his daughter’s wedding. During oral arguments in April, some justices seemed worried that politicians were at the mercy of vague rules that could leave them the prey of overzealous prosecutors. “For better or worse, it puts at risk behavior that is common, particularly when the quid is a lunch or a baseball ticket, throughout this country,” Justice Stephen G. Breyer said. Mr. Abramoff said the justices seem far removed from the unpleasant realities of his old life. “I do think there is a disconnect, and I understand it because none of them have been in the political process,” he said of the justices. And that remove may now have diminished both the practice and public perception of politics.