PORTSMOUTH, N. H.  —   After 14 months of policy clashes and moments of disdain, Senator Bernie Sanders endorsed Hillary Clinton for the Democratic presidential nomination on Tuesday, clearing away the last major obstacle to a united front for the party heading into its convention this month and the fall election. Yet for all the smiles and hugs between the former rivals here at their first joint rally, Mrs. Clinton’s next challenge was on vivid display as some Sanders supporters jeered her name and held signs saying “Won’t Vote Hillary” while Clinton partisans hissed “shhhh” and others chanted “unity. ” In the coming weeks, from Mrs. Clinton’s choice of a running mate to her convention speech, campaign commercials and overtures to Republicans, the 13 million voters who backed Mr. Sanders in the primary contests will be watching her for any hint of wavering from their progressive causes. Mrs. Clinton needs to convert many of these liberals and independents in states like New Hampshire and Wisconsin, which Mr. Sanders won and she wants to carry in November. And Mr. Sanders, in his remarks at the rally, signaled what may be her best hope of attracting them: drawing sharp contrasts between her and Donald J. Trump, the presumptive Republican nominee, so his admirers feel they have no choice but to support Mrs. Clinton. Dropping his portrayal of Mrs. Clinton as a captive of Wall Street billionaires and   interests, for instance, Mr. Sanders redirected those sorts of accusations to Mr. Trump, saying his proposed tax cuts would be a windfall to wealthy Americans. “His reckless economic policies will not only exacerbate income and wealth inequality, they would increase our national debt by trillions of dollars,” Mr. Sanders said. Standing beside him at Portsmouth High School, Mrs. Clinton beamed and applauded at first as Mr. Sanders spoke, but the two exuded little warmth and looked stiff  —   especially Mr. Sanders  —   as they waved to the audience and cameras. When he finished speaking, he reached out his hand to her, but Mrs. Clinton went in for a hug and a microphone caught her saying, “You were great, so great,” and “thank you so much. ” Then, in her appeal to his supporters, Mrs. Clinton sought to pick up his political mantle and pledged to overhaul Wall Street and the campaign finance system, two issues that Mr. Sanders largely left for her to address. “It is past time to end the stranglehold of wealthy special interests in Washington,” she said as Mr. Sanders smiled and clapped. Mrs. Clinton did not promise to forgo major donations herself, however: After the endorsement event she flew to New York for a private matinee performance of the hit Broadway musical “Hamilton” for donors who gave $2, 700 to $100, 000 to her campaign or the Democratic National Committee. She tried to strike the right notes, though, such as pledging to uphold “our progressive values. ” “You will always have a seat at the table when I am in the White House,” she said to Mr. Sanders’s backers. For many of those supporters, voting for Mrs. Clinton is still hard to fathom. About 85 percent of Democrats who backed Mr. Sanders in the primary contests said they planned to vote for her in the general election, according to a Pew poll released last week. Yet other polls show that only a small fraction of them would do so enthusiastically. “I’m a Bernie guy,” explained Noah Levin, a college student in Hampstead who wore an “H” for Hillary sticker on his   but said he wasn’t sure he would support Mrs. Clinton in the fall. “I won’t vote for Trump, but November is a long way away,” he said. On the campaign trail, Mrs. Clinton has been focused on winning over independents and   women who are turned off by Mr. Trump, exuding confidence that the young voters and liberals who backed Mr. Sanders will get in line and support her when faced with the prospect of a Trump presidency instead. But behind the scenes, her senior campaign aides have been in frequent contact with Sanders advisers while also trying to build bridges to a wing of the party skeptical of Mrs. Clinton and the brand of moderate politics her husband advanced. Since she clinched the number of delegates needed to secure her party’s nomination on June 7, the campaign has reached out to Mr. Sanders’s supporters, dispatching three top staff members  —   the campaign manager, Robby Mook director of states and political engagement, Marlon Marshall and the top policy adviser, Jake Sullivan  —   to states that Mr. Sanders won, including New Hampshire, Wyoming, Vermont and Washington. Mr. Sanders, of Vermont, was in a bittersweet but resolute mood on Tuesday, according to his advisers, as he took the stage with Mrs. Clinton. He was back in a state that once filled his campaign with hope after he crushed Mrs. Clinton by 22 percentage points in the February primary, and he came around grudgingly to supporting her, the advisers said. But he was also determined to make a strong case against Mr. Trump and, in doing so, champion Mrs. Clinton as the only chance to defeat him. Taking the stage together in the high school gymnasium, Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Sanders stood before a giant American flag and Mrs. Clinton’s motto, “Stronger Together. ” The clashes in the audience quickly subsided, and Mr. Sanders drew some of his strongest cheers as he described his unexpectedly competitive challenge against Mrs. Clinton and his primary and caucus victories in 22 states. In an odd passage for a concession speech, Mr. Sanders said that Mrs. Clinton had “389 more pledged delegates than we have, and a lot more superdelegates”  —   a reference to party leaders that drew boos from the audience and a steely look from Mrs. Clinton. One person close to Mr. Sanders said that the senator and his wife, Jane, were “putting on a good face” on Tuesday, but that they were disappointed that his campaign had not been more successful after he gave it so much of his energy and rallied millions of people around his ideas. The person, a longtime top political adviser to Mr. Sanders who spoke on the condition of anonymity to share the private views of the couple, also said that the senator had resolved to keep his word to endorse the Democratic nominee and that he had been told by some   Democrats that he could become chairman of the committee that would work on trying to carry out a proposed $15 federal minimum wage. Still, Mr. Sanders uttered the words that Mrs. Clinton needed him to say  —   “I am endorsing Hillary Clinton”  —   and aligned himself with her on creating more jobs, raising the minimum wage, expanding access to   health care, combating climate change and offering relief to college students in deep debt. “There is no doubt in my mind that as we head into November, Hillary Clinton is far and away the best candidate,” he said. “It is no secret that Hillary Clinton and I disagree on a number of issues  —   that is what this campaign has been about, that is what democracy is about,” said Mr. Sanders, who only three months ago declared that Mrs. Clinton was “unqualified” to be president. As Mr. Sanders delivered his endorsement, the Trump campaign, hoping to appeal to disaffected Sanders supporters, sent out a statement saying, “Bernie is now officially a part of a rigged system” for “endorsing one of the most     Street, and   candidates in the history of the Democratic Party. ” But Mrs. Clinton would not be deterred from her unity message, urging Democrats to come together against Mr. Trump. “With your help, we’re joining forces to defeat Donald Trump, win in November and build a future we can all believe in,” Mrs. Clinton said. “I am proud to be fighting alongside you because, my friends, this is a time for all of us to stand together. ”