WASHINGTON  —   In laying out his economic platform on Monday, Donald J. Trump made several assertions that glossed over the complexities of the domestic and international economy. Here are a few we checked out. Claim: “One in five American households do not have a single member in the labor force, not a single member of the household. These are the real unemployment numbers  —   the 5 percent figure is one of the biggest hoaxes in American modern politics. ” Fact Check: The unemployment rate was actually 4. 9 percent in July, not 5 percent. And it’s not a hoax. It is compiled by a federal agency that is respected by economists from across the political spectrum. The data, however, is incomplete. The unemployment rate measures the number of people who are actively seeking work. It does not include people who have given up in frustration, who are staying home to care for children or parents, or who have decided to retire. The evidence suggests a lot of people are still sitting on the sidelines involuntarily. Even as the unemployment rate has fallen back to a normal level, the share of adults with jobs remains unusually low. Before the recession, in July 2007, the work force included 79. 8 percent of adults ages 25 to 54. In July 2016, only 78 percent of adults in that group were working  —   a loss of a few million people. _____ Claim: “Finally, no family will have to pay the death tax. American workers have paid taxes their whole lives, and they should not be taxed again at death and it’s just plain wrong and most people agree with that. We will repeal it. ” Fact Check: Only a very few American workers are subject to estate taxes, and those subject to the tax are usually not termed “workers. ” Under current law, a married couple can shield up to $10. 9 million of their estate from any federal taxation. The estate tax hits roughly two of every 1, 000 American estates, according to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a   research organization. It estimated last year that a full repeal would have benefited roughly 5, 400 families in 2016. The benefit to those families, however, is considerable: an average savings of roughly $3 million. For wealthier families, like the Trumps, the savings are proportionally greater. _____ Claim: “Motor vehicle manufacturing is one of the most heavily regulated industries in the country and even in the world. The U. S. economy today is 25 percent smaller than it would have been without the surge of regulations since 1980. It is estimated that current overregulation is costing our economy as much as $2 trillion a year. ” Fact Check: The auto industry is indeed heavily regulated, and regulations cost money. Federal rules, however, also have important benefits. Over the past   fatality rates in automobile accidents have been halved and then halved again. In 2014, there were just 1. 08 deaths for every 100 million miles that Americans traveled. It is inherently difficult to estimate economic growth in a world that never was. Mr. Trump’s assertion is based on research published by the Mercatus Center at George Mason University, which takes a dim view of regulation. Other economists regard its estimates as considerably overstated. _____ Claim: “President Obama, and the usual   experts who’ve been wrong about every trade deal for decades, predicted that the trade deal with South Korea would increase our exports to South Korea by more than $10 billion  —   resulting in some 70, 000 jobs. Like Hillary Clinton’s broken promises to New York, these pledges all turned out to be false. Instead of creating 70, 000 jobs, it has killed nearly 100, 000 jobs, according to the Economic Policy Institute. Our exports to South Korea haven’t increased at all, but their imports to us have surged. ” Fact Check: The early results of the free trade agreement between the United States and South Korea, which took effect in 2012, have fallen short of the administration’s predictions. South Korea bought $43. 5 billion in American exports in 2011 last year, exports totaled $43. 4 billion. And Korean imports have increased. Circumstances have played a role. The strength of the dollar has weighed on global demand for American goods, while increasing American demand for foreign goods. Also, the agreement called for some import barriers to be reduced gradually. The proposed   Partnership, however, is partly an attempt to improve existing deals with South Korea and other Asian countries. There is evidence, for example, that South Korea has suppressed the value of its currency in recent years  —   but nothing in the current trade agreement prohibits South Korea from doing so. The proposed deal seeks to discourage that kind of currency manipulation. _____ Claim: “My plan will also help reduce the cost of child care by allowing parents to fully deduct the average cost of child care spending from their taxes. ” Fact Check: Mr. Trump is proposing a new tax deduction, meaning that people would not pay taxes on a portion of their income used for child care expenses. (The tax code currently allows a married couple to set aside up to $5, 000 in pretax income for child care expenses, or to claim a credit that reduces taxes owed on up to $6, 000 in child care expenses.) While he did not provide details, his new deduction would likely benefit a narrow group. The government lets all Americans reduce taxable income by a fixed amount. This standard deduction is $9, 300 in 2016. People who spend more on certain things, like mortgage interest or hospital bills  —   or, in Mr. Trump’s plan, child care bills  —   can itemize those expenses and claim a larger deduction. But only 30 percent of American households itemized deductions in 2013, the most recent year for which I. R. S. data is available. As one might expect, households that itemized deductions mostly had incomes above $75, 000 a year. Mr. Trump’s plan might increase the share of households that itemize because it would add a new category to the list of eligible expenses. But the bulk of the benefits almost certainly would accrue to wealthy families who spend the most money on child care, and who already incur other large deductible expenses.