(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the  .) Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1. Federal health officials advised pregnant women to avoid a second area of   County where the Zika virus is spreading. The new zone includes South Beach, the tourist mecca of Miami Beach, above. The officials also sounded the alarm about the virus’s possible spread in a much larger area of South Florida. “All it takes is one mosquito bite to change the entire course of our lives,” a worried pregnant woman said. Here’s what travelers need to know. _____ 2. Donald Trump’s campaign lost its chairman, Paul Manafort, another bump in a tumultuous week for his team. Mr. Trump visited Baton Rouge with his running mate, Mike Pence, to offer consolation and draw attention to what many in   Louisiana feel has been a lack of media and presidential attention. President Obama, who has been in Martha’s Vineyard on a family vacation, plans to visit Baton Rouge on Tuesday. In our latest campaign podcast, the author of “Hillbilly Elegy,” a memoir of growing up as part of the white underclass, explains Mr. Trump’s political rise. _____ 3. The faltering of Mr. Trump’s campaign has encouraged Democrats to press for action on President Obama’s nomination of Judge Merrick Garland to the Supreme Court. Separately, F. B. I. documents given to Congress this week show that Hillary Clinton told investigators that former Secretary of State Colin Powell had advised her to use a personal email account. Above, a meeting in 2014. _____ 4. “I want to apologize for my behavior last weekend  —   for not being more careful and candid,” the Olympic swimmer Ryan Lochte posted. He was referring to his account of a gunpoint robbery in Rio, which has been contradicted by witnesses, including teammates, who say he had a clash with employees of a gas station that he was drunkenly vandalizing. The apology did little to soothe angry Brazilians. “He’s still portraying himself as a victim,” said a sports commentator. “So much arrogance. ” _____ 5. The Rio Olympics are speeding toward Sunday’s closing ceremony, with just a few focal events left. One is the women’s 800 meters on Saturday night, with  the South African runner Caster Semenya heavily favored to win. She still faces sporadic backbiting over whether she has a hormonal advantage over rivals. The U. S. won the women’s   relay on Friday, taking a final for which they almost did not qualify. Usain Bolt won three sprinting gold medals for the third straight Olympic Games, helping Jamaica to victory in the 4x100 relay. The U. S. women’s water polo team won its second consecutive gold medal, and the U. S. men’s basketball team advanced to Sunday’s final. Russia won in synchronized swimming. _____ 6. Russia fired cruise missiles into Syria from warships in the Mediterranean for the first time, intensifying its efforts to turn back insurgent forces. The missiles, aimed near Aleppo, came days after Russia began flying bombing missions from an Iranian base. _____ 7. The former Navy SEAL who wrote an account of the raid that killed Osama bin Laden apologized for failing to clear his disclosures with the Pentagon. Matt Bissonnette, who wrote under the pen name Mark Owen, agreed to forfeit $6. 8 million in book royalties and speaking fees, hoping to settle more than two years of investigations. “I acknowledge my mistake and have paid a stiff price, both personally and financially, for that error,” he said in a statement. The deal awaits court approval. _____ 8. In theaters this weekend: Natalie Portman’s “elegant and intimate” directing debut, “A Tale of Love and Darkness,” based on a memoir by the Israeli novelist Amos Oz. If you’d rather hang by the small screen, Amazon Prime has “Mission Impossible  —   Rogue Nation. ” Our reviewers recommend nine new books, including Colson Whitehead’s daring novel, “The Underground Railroad,” and Jules Feiffer’s latest graphic novel, “Cousin Joseph. ” Foodies might want to try our recipe for creamy tomato gazpacho with crunchy pecorino. _____ 9. And finally, here’s an idea for an alternative vacation: a voyage on a freighter along the most traveled inland waterway in the U. S. a   corridor that connects the Atlantic Ocean with the Great Lakes and the Mississippi. Travelers stay in private cabins, taking shore leave while the crew loads, unloads or navigates locks. During his passage of Lake Ontario, our travel writer observed, “The air was still and the view ahead was so wide I could see the curvature of the earth. ” Have a great weekend.  _____ Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p. m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a. m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a. m. Sundays. Want to look back? Here’s last night’s briefing. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes. com.