In a brief statement this week about the still mysterious murders of a Bangladeshi imam and his assistant, the Queens district attorney, Richard A. Brown, captured, perhaps unwittingly, the dueling imperatives a prosecutor faces in a case that strikes at an entire community. Mr. Brown’s primary task in issuing the statement was to announce that his office was charging Oscar Morel, the man accused in the killings, with   murder, based on the fact that the daylight shooting had caused the deaths of at least two people. But in a more emotive tone, the district attorney also extended his “deepest sympathy” to the families of the victims and then made a promise: He would “work tirelessly to ensure that justice is done. ” New York City’s five district attorneys are never just dispassionate executors of the law. As elected officials who draw their powers  —   and their paychecks  —   from the public, they at times assume a more symbolic role: that of the community defender, one who is responsive to, and responsible for, the constituents they serve. The community in this case, a Muslim enclave in Ozone Park, clearly called for a response from Mr. Brown as many in the neighborhood fearfully described the killings of the men, Alauddin Akonjee and Thara Miah, as a hate crime. That put Mr. Brown in a complicated position, several lawyers said. The police, so far, have not determined a motive for the murders  —   let alone found evidence of a hate crime. So Mr. Brown, a Democrat, had to file charges that were factually and tactically defensible while still being seen as answering the neighborhood’s anxious call as firmly as he could. “He was responding to the technical requirements of the law, but also to public pressure  —   there’s no doubt about it,” said Murray Richman, a veteran member of the city’s defense bar. “While he came forward with the right charge, a lot of it was political. Whenever there’s something that agitates a particular group, you don’t have a choice. You have to respond. ” While prosecutors do not have to establish motive to charge people with a crime, it is an essential part of their subsequent efforts to prove their case at trial. Should Mr. Morel go to trial, an assistant district attorney will want to furnish to the jury a credible explanation for why he undertook two murders that he has denied committing. Some lawyers said that in the absence of a motive, it was a bit unusual to have accused Mr. Morel of   murder. “It would seem to me that murder in the first degree is all about motive,” Gerald L. Shargel, another veteran defense lawyer, said. “You don’t need it, but it is definitely relevant to the defendant’s state of mind. Was this the guy who did it because, say, he had pictures of other Muslim leaders on his basement wall?” Other lawyers, though, said that by pursuing a   charge, Mr. Brown relieved himself of the strategic burden of establishing a motive at a trial. The police and prosecutors say they have evidence indicating that Mr. Morel intentionally killed Mr. Akonjee and Mr. Miah. Under the law,   murder can narrowly be defined as the intentional killing of more than one person. “If what we’re hearing is true,” said Mark Bederow, a lawyer who has handled several murder cases, “then the guy walked up, boom, boom, and the cops found the gun. It’s easily provable  —   a nice, clean case. ” A bias case would be much more difficult to prove, Mr. Bederow said. A   killing is, by definition, a   murder charge, so Mr. Brown would have not been able to deliver the same impact that comes with   murder. But more important, by filing   charges, prosecutors would assume the obligation of offering a motive  —   which is to say, that Mr. Morell had acted out of intolerance or hate  —   and proving it. “They would literally be promising the jury, ‘We are going to tell you why this happened,’” Mr. Bederow said. “And there’s just no need to do that. It’s messy. That’s the last thing you want  —   a messy case. Though I’ll admit, that’s just the cold analysis of a lawyer. ”