Here are the top 10 comments of the week on our digital platforms, as selected by our readers and the journalists who moderate nearly every comment. 1. If forcing a girl to wear hijab is against her freedom and “feminism,” what about forcing her not to wear hijab when she wants to? Isn’t it also against her freedom of choice?  —   Aysha Jahan on The Times’s Facebook page, responding to an article about efforts by the police in several French beach towns to enforce a ban against the “burkini,” a modest swimsuit worn by observant Muslim women.  This comment received more than 2, 450 likes.  2. A 6. 2 magnitude earthquake, while not small, is not particularly large. The reason it caused so much damage is that many of the beautiful ancient buildings are composed of unreinforced masonry (stone). These are the most dangerous buildings to be in during an earthquake as they have very little sheer strength, and therefore collapse when exposed to lateral ground accelerations. Such buildings can undergo seismic retrofitting, but the process is expensive and I suspect that most buildings in Italy have not undergone such a procedure. So therefore it is likely an unaddressed infrastructure issue that led to wide such spread devastation.  —   Geoscientist in Tallahassee, Fla. reacting to an article about the earthquake that struck central Italy, killing more than 200 people. 3. I grew up in Southern California. I remember when the Whittier Narrows quake crumbled parts of my hometown and what it felt like to be thrown out of bed for the Northridge quake and being forced to crawl on my hands and knees to safety as my mother screamed from her room down the hall. We were fine, just broken dishes and books everywhere, but I remember the terror. I can’t imagine how these people felt as their houses collapsed around them. My heart goes out to Italy. Know that many Americans who have lived through earthquakes themselves are thinking of you. We hope many are pulled from the rubble alive. And hopefully you can rebuild stronger. Peace.  —   Dr. A. in Texas. 4. The triple standard continues  —   woman, a Clinton and Democrat. Whitewater, a   conspiracy theories, Benghazi, and now “the emails. ” All of these have produced nothing other than a normal human being with a long track record of excellent service who has made a few errors and has a few flaws. Bernie Sanders had a lot of things right, including letting the spinning of the emails fall by the wayside. If this were a man, not a Clinton, and not a Democrat, this wouldn’t even be news.  —   6Strings in North Carolina, reacting to an article about a judge’s order to the F. B. I. to release nearly 15, 000 of Hillary Clinton’s emails that it collected off her personal server.  This comment received more than 4, 300 reader recommendations. 5. In economics, educational achievement, social status, in those measurable areas, this ethnic group has a large portion of its population at the bottom. Look at the public schools and how Democratic factions like teachers’ unions and organizations like the N. A. A. C. P. have a stranglehold on this group’s children. Trump’s remarks are correct  —   just look at these urban cities that have been under Democratic control for decades. One could go on and on, but why not admit the overall accuracy of what Donald Trump stated? I’m voting for Donald Trump.  —   Pianki in St. Louis, reacting to an article about Donald Trump’s attempts to reach out to black voters. 6. It should surprise no one that white people just don’t want to live with blacks, regardless of income. And yet everyone still treats this fact as though it were new, or they bend over backwards trying to deny it all together. Face it. It makes no difference if you are a   professional,    black person  —   because in the end, you’re still black.  —   N. Smith in New York, reacting to an article about racial segregation in cities like Milwaukee, where 59 percent of black families with household incomes over $100, 000 a year live in poor areas.  This comment received more than 190 reader recommendations. 7. My son will now attend elementary school without an EpiPen. I pray he doesn’t touch anything with   . .. have considered home school now. How long will the people of this country suffer to Big Pharma until we rise up against it?  —   Jennifer Ericksen on The Times’s Facebook page, reacting to an article about the sudden and steep increase in the price of an EpiPen, an injection device that delivers a dose of epinephrine to a user suffering an anaphylactic allergy attack.  8. I am a chemist by training and trade. As far as the bagels are concerned, the lye (i. e. NaOH) reacts with the proteins and sugars in the flour and causes (I am guessing) carmelization reactions. By the time the bagels are boiled and baked, the lye has been completely neutralized and there should, in fact, be no free lye remaining. If you want to follow the recipe that uses lye, be careful (generally speaking, kitchens can be dangerous places if you aren’t careful) but don’t worry about having remnants of a toxic chemical in your food.  —   Perry Brown in Salt Lake City, reacting to an article about whether lye is a key ingredient in bagel baking. 9. As for Facebook, I’ve found that it has both fostered all sorts of very productive (i. e. polite and reasonable) political discourse and also led to some personal disappointment. On the one hand, you can speak with people about political matters in a way that would be far too awkward in person (“no religion or politics” is still the standard rule of etiquette for most social gatherings, I find). On the other, it means I now have to see how much my grandfather loves Trump. It stings every time I see him post something, but what can you do? You have to let people be themselves and have the emotional restraint to not respond to everything you see online. Facebook, like most digital media, is nothing but what you make it.  —   Jonathan Krause in the United Kingdom, reacting to an article about Facebook’s role in political news coverage during this election cycle. 10. This is what happens when   get more access to the same funding and facilities   get, beginning in middle and high school and on through college. This is why women’s rights are human rights. The benefits of empowering   can be felt all across the societies that choose to do so.  —   Leanne Harpin on The Times’s Facebook page, reacting to an article about American female athletes in the Rio Olympics, where they won 61 medals. Had the women been a separate country, they would have been third in the overall medal count. This comment received more than 550 likes. 