Perhaps you’ve heard the saying, “You can’t make this stuff up. ” So, so wrong. It turns out the subway cricket lady was a prank. The   subway riders? Flimflam. Even, it seems, that      New Yorker the Pizza Rat may have been schooled and rehearsed for the camera. Is no crazy thing sacred, or at least genuine? The subway cricket lady, for those not paying attention, was videotaped last week on the D train as she was supposedly trying to sell crickets and worms out of a bucket. As the story went, a group of teenagers bumped into her and she flew off the handle and dumped the crickets and worms into the train. “Straphangers Go Berserk After Woman Tosses Bugs in Subway Car,” The New York Post reported. The emergency brake was pulled  —   a truly useless maneuver, bringing the train to a dead stop on the Manhattan Bridge. The first reports of this were accompanied by a cellphone video of the chaos. Then another video surfaced and the   reporters Rafi Schwartz and Soraya Auger of Vox noticed that it was quite a polished bit of filmmaking. Through advanced interrogation techniques, they extracted an admission of responsibility from the woman who posted it. She declared herself to be the   and said she was engaged in performance art having something to do with homelessness. The bucket of bugs was knocked out of her hands by another member of her troupe. Who knows how many other passengers were part of the staging or just fated to be along for the ride. Eventually, the brakes were reset and the train moved off the bridge. On Tuesday, having been exposed, she was arrested on a charge of reckless endangerment by the police, who had previously been willing to let her slide. So actually, you can make this stuff up, and be believed. But why bother? The implausible is the daily bread of the subway, served without irony. Real events: Trysts. Preachers. Makeup artists. The “    ” acrobats. Buckets of dead crabs, as Gothamist reported, and a condom tied to a pole on the F train, apparently for weeks, and seemingly, we regret to say,  . All manner of live creatures: chickens, frogs, goldfish, cats, a monkey. And of course, microbes, by the kajillion. (The Central Intelligence Agency took it upon itself in 1966 to see how quickly germs would be propelled through the tunnels via the piston effect of moving trains. At strategic spots, the C. I. A. people dropped light bulbs filled with what they termed innocuous bacteria, then measured how far they traveled.) Then there is the snake guy. “He wasn’t talking at all,” Conor C. Walsh remembered. “He had an intern, a young kid helper, and a duffel bag filled with five or six snakes. ” It was Halloween night two years ago, and Mr. Walsh and some friends were on a train that was moseying to Williamsburg. At first, the man draped the snakes on an overhead handrail. Then he walked through the car with them. “Unless you really protested, he was putting them on people,” Mr. Walsh, 28, said. “There was a   woman shrieking and screaming. He wasn’t going to put it on her. ” Some of the passengers seemed thrilled about having a snake coiled around their bodies. “I don’t like them at all,” Mr. Walsh said. “It’s my one thing. I kept him away, at all times. I was just imagining his apartment, or his warehouse, wherever he kept them. ” Although the man did not speak, he appeared to be marketing the snakes. “He had business cards that he passed out,” Mr. Walsh said, “but no one was walking away with a snake. ” Mr. Walsh, who grew up in New York and teaches high school in Windsor Terrace, Brooklyn, is also a singer and guitarist with the indie band  . He has put subway exotica to excellent use in his music. “There are days when you hate the subways and days when you meet some awesome people,” he said. “I sat down next to this guy one time, and we got talking, so I asked him what he did. He said: ‘I’m a shaman. I’m an actual shaman. I help my clients speak to the spirits.’ He was a nice kid, 26. Had gone to Hampshire, that college in Massachusetts. ” Mr. Walsh turned his encounter with the young shaman into a brisk, fun pop tune, “Shaman,” which begins: “I met a shaman who grew up in Queens   On the D train his knees touching me. ” After all, there’s magical realism to spare.