Amid the craggy landscape near the Mauna Loa volcano on Hawaii, six researchers lived for a year as if they were on Mars. Confined to a    habitat inside and spacesuits outside, the researchers spent their time extracting water from dry rock, growing plants and crawling through gigantic lava tubes. But when members of the group were released from their habitat on Sunday, they emphasized one key takeaway: They had spent a lot of time trying not to drive themselves or each other crazy. Two significant obstacles for the researchers were the physical and the emotional isolation. They began living at the habitat in August 2015 as part of the     project. They were the fourth group to take up residence there, and stayed longer than any previous group. Experts say that travel to Mars may be possible by the 2030s, so if you’re among the many who hope to one day complete the approximately    journey to the red planet  —   or if you want to try your hand at a year living in   isolation  —   here are a few tips on how to get along with your colleagues at one of the most extreme workplaces in the solar system. People who are not working on Mars or in a   environment usually do not have this luxury, but according to Christiane Heinicke, a    German physicist and engineer, democracy was a part of the personnel process on fake Mars. “During the selection process, we were trekking together in the Rocky Mountains,” Dr. Heinicke said in an email. “Afterwards, everyone voted anonymously for their preferred commander, which turned out to be Carmel,” as in Carmel Johnston, a soil scientist from Montana. Nobody wants to hear the words “emergency” and “Mars” in the same sentence, but in this case, a glitch in the workday helped temporarily repair group relations. “It really helps to have an emergency to work on together, because it reunites the group,” Dr. Heinicke told journalists after her group was released. “And everybody has new motivation to work together and make it through the whole year. ” During their time in the habitat, the researchers had only small spaces to themselves, including a bed, a desk and some storage space. Aside from making sure you bring “good music” to drown out your colleagues’ noise in close quarters, it will help to nurture your own side projects and hobbies, Ms. Heinicke said. “Bring a lot of meaningful, stimulating projects to work, and be open to collaborate with others,” she said. “More generally: Be adaptable the mission is very unlikely to be fully predictable. ” Her colleague, Cyprien Verseux, echoed that sentiment: “Bring books,” he told journalists after he was released. If all else fails, start a band, make finger puppets, exercise or even do your taxes to pass the time. This one is a universal truth on Earth as well as on Mars, but in the habitat, there were fewer opportunities to escape one another. Mr. Verseux said that “monotony, always in the same place, always with the same people” were among his biggest challenges while living in the domed research lab that the group called home, where the only respite from the cabin  —   going outside  —   required wearing a mock spacesuit. Another key takeaway from the mission, Ms. Heinicke said, is that not everyone is built to live in an extreme environment and in   isolation. “Some thrive and ‘infect’ each other with ideas and work on a large number of joint projects,” she said. “The others decay and progressively slip into a worse and worse mood. Obviously, if you want to send humans to Mars, you have to make sure your crew is composed of only the first kind. ”