Six former New York City correction officers returned to Rikers Island  —   this time as inmates  —   after being sentenced on Friday to prison terms of from four and a half years to six and a half years for their roles in the brutal beating of an inmate there in 2012. The sentencing of the former officers in State Supreme Court in the Bronx came three months after they were convicted of   attempted gang assault, the most serious offense, and other charges. The case opened a window on a pervasive culture of violence at Rikers, the troubled city jail complex that houses 8, 000 inmates, at a time when many critics, including Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, have called for it to be closed. While there have been other instances of brutality against inmates, this case stood out because of the large number of officers involved, as well as the high rank of some of them. Prosecutors said Eliseo Perez Jr. an assistant chief for security, and Gerald Vaughn, a captain, ordered members of an elite squad to beat the inmate, Jahmal Lightfoot, after Mr. Perez decided Mr. Lightfoot was being insolent. Justice Steven Barrett sentenced Mr. Perez, Mr. Vaughn and four others  —   Jose Parra, Tobias Parker, Alfred Rivera and David Rodriguez  —   in a courtroom filled with their friends, relatives and fellow correction officers. Dozens of other supporters waited in a hallway outside. Each of the men had faced up to 15 years in state prison on the   attempted gang assault charge. The other charges on which the six were also convicted included attempted assault in the first degree, assault in the second degree, falsifying business records and official misconduct. “At Rikers Island one day several years ago, officers entrusted with the duty to maintain order and discipline without resorting to force succumbed to their worst instincts and to the casual violence that is too often prevalent among the prison population these men were entrusted to watch,” Justice Barrett said, describing a case he said involved a “dereliction of duty at Rikers Island. ” Justice Barrett gave the longest sentence  —   six and a half years  —   to Mr. Perez, whom he called the “most culpable” of the defendants the judge sentenced Mr. Vaughn to five and a half years in prison. The other four former officers each received terms of four and a half years. The six men were immediately taken into custody after being sentenced and were later sent to Rikers. They will eventually be transferred to state prison. Justice Barrett also sentenced two former officers not directly involved in the beating, Harmon Frierson and Dwayne Maynard, to conditional discharges and 500 hours of community service apiece. They were convicted in June on charges of official misconduct for their roles in efforts to try to cover up the attack. Mr. Lightfoot, who was released from state prison in 2014, was in the courtroom as one former officer after another was sentenced during a proceeding that lasted nearly three hours. Afterward, he declined through his lawyer to comment. Lawrence Piergrossi, a prosecutor, praised Mr. Lightfoot in court for coming forward to report the beating by the officers, which occurred in a cell used for searching inmates. “What was supposed to be left in that search pen  —   because of Jahmal Lightfoot’s courage  —   has been brought to light,” Mr. Piergrossi said. The former officers, none of whom testified at trial, were portrayed by their lawyers as devoted family men and dedicated public servants without criminal records. Mr. Perez, his lawyer said, had helped with rescue efforts after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. Mr. Rodriguez’s youngest child was born during the trial. Others were described by their lawyers as caring for aging or sick parents, and serving in their churches. Several of the defense lawyers said their clients were appealing the guilty verdicts. Nine former and current correction officers were tried together last spring in connection with the beating of Mr. Lightfoot and subsequent effort to cover it up. Five were found guilty by a jury three, who chose a bench trial, were found guilty by Justice Barrett. The verdicts were a major victory for the Bronx district attorney, Darcel D. Clark, a Democrat, who has made prosecuting crimes committed by anyone at Rikers a priority. Law enforcement officials in New York and elsewhere have struggled to successfully prosecute correction officers accused of brutality, in part because of negative perceptions of, and credibility problems with, victims accused or convicted of crimes. Mr. Lightfoot testified during the trial that it was “open season” for the officers to pummel him mercilessly with their fists and boots even as he curled into a fetal position on the floor. The attack left him with injuries that included two fractured eye sockets. Defense lawyers, who rested their case without calling any witnesses, argued that their clients had committed no wrongdoing. They said Mr. Lightfoot had been found with a sharp metal object during a routine search of inmates, and had then disregarded the officers’ repeated orders to drop the object. Mr. Lightfoot, the defense lawyers said, was injured while being forcibly restrained by officers who were simply doing their jobs. The defense lawyers also sought repeatedly to undermine the credibility of Mr. Lightfoot, who was sent to Rikers in 2010 after being accused of stealing a woman’s pocketbook. They cited his ties to the Bloods street gang and his criminal history involving drugs and other minor offenses. They suggested that he had concocted a story about being singled out and beaten, and hoped to gain financially from a lawsuit against the city over the attack that is pending. Mr. Perez retired from the New York City Correction Department in 2013 Mr. Vaughn retired in 2014. The six other officers convicted of criminal charges have been fired, according to correction officials. Jeffrey Richard, the only officer to be acquitted, remains a correction officer. A 10th officer, Michael Pollard, has also been charged in the beating of Mr. Lightfoot. He will be tried separately because of medical problems. He retired in July, according to correction officials.