On a chilly October morning, Talea Childs, 4, still dressed in pajamas, bounced along the living room rug of a United States map. “Konnichiwa,” she greeted in Japanese, and bowed. Surrounded by shelves of her favorite books, she selected a thin volume and sat to read. “She’s been interested in books since she could belly over and look at the pages,” her mother, Trenicia Childs, said as Talea settled into the story. Ms. Childs is applying to kindergarten for next year  —   a notoriously rigorous process in New York City schools  —   and nurtures her daughter’s learning at home. A schedule taped to a cupboard by the kitchen lists Circle Time,   Storytelling, Cooking and other activities. Brushes, thick with paint, sit in a canister by the sink, and evidence of recent art projects lines the walls  —   abstract strokes of pinks, purples and green glitter. Also on the walls are posters of the solar system, the human body, the numbers through 100 and the words “large,” “small,” “run” and “walk” and associated words. While Talea read in the corner, Ms. Childs sorted through piles of housing documents. The Childses, who are among almost 565, 000 people in New York State who receive some public assistance, according to state calculations in June, never expected to need help. Ms. Childs, 45, and her husband, Tarrell Childs, 40, an Air Force veteran, have college degrees and work force experience. While serving in the military for a decade as an account finance specialist, Mr. Childs worked through an injury in 1997 that gouged and blinded his right eye. A Bronx native, he returned there in 2003, working full time while studying English literature at Fordham University. He wrote short stories, plays and short film scripts late into the night. The couple met at Moca Bar and Lounge at a spoken word performance in Harlem in 2010. Mr. Childs wondered aloud what their children would be like on their second date. A year later they were married and expecting their daughter. With Mr. Childs’s steady income as a property manager, Ms. Childs postponed completing her master’s in education to raise their daughter. She was one certification shy of graduation. But Mr. Childs lost his job in 2014 when his company restructured because of financial problems. “That’s when we really started getting behind,” Ms. Childs said. With his G. I. Bill benefits set to expire, Mr. Childs dusted off his screenplays and applied to the New York Film Academy. He got in. He planned to work while going to school, but he found that an accelerated yearlong conservatory program packed with   days did not allow for extra time. Although the military covered his studies, the family exhausted its meager savings. With little time to search for jobs during school, Mr. Childs graduated in September 2015 without work. That month, bringing in just $594. 98 in disability payments from Veterans Affairs, the Childses applied for public assistance, confronting a frustrating labyrinth of city departments and aid applications, according to documents provided by the family. They hoped the assistance would be temporary  —   keeping food on the table and bills paid on time  —   until they gained   employment. In October 2015, a month after they applied for aid, the city’s Human Resources Administration lost their paperwork. A month after that, the Homelessness Diversion Units forced them to reapply. And a month after that: the same story. Their debt quadrupled while they waited for paperwork to be fixed, and they faced imminent eviction after missing rent payments, the family said. With a worsened financial situation, the family was told that December that its rent was too high and its arrears too steep to qualify for assistance from the Homelessness Diversion Units, so it was referred to the Neighborhood Association for   Affairs, a nonprofit organization providing housing intervention and assistance services. That same month, the Childses found out they had qualified for public assistance through the Human Resources Administration. But two days later, another error closed their case, halting all public assistance, including food stamps. In early 2016, the Human Resources Administration reopened the case, and the family reapplied to the Neighborhood Association for   Affairs. But a week later the nonprofit denied the application. Eventually, in February, the Human Resources Administration referred the family for an eviction prevention subsidy. “It felt personal,” Ms. Childs said. “It was one more stressor when there were already weeks we didn’t have enough food on the table. ” In March, HomeBase, an eviction prevention program administered by Catholic Charities Archdiocese of New York, one of the eight organizations supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, helped them navigate the complicated application process  —   which included another errant application closing in April  —   and avoid eviction. By this time, the family was $12, 193. 46 in arrears. “It’s right out of a Kafka novel,” said Alice Kenny, the organization’s director of special projects. In May, Catholic Charities got the city to help settle the Childs family’s arrears with a lump sum of $12, 083. 46. Then in June, nine months after initially applying for a housing subsidy, they received their first payment, along with another conciliation notice threatening case closure. The family resolved the notice and now receives $960 a month toward rent from the city. Still, despite noting Mr. Childs’s veteran status in September 2015, the family was not referred to the proper office for public assistance for more than a year. Last summer, Mr. Childs got a job as a substitute teacher. Working toward a teaching license while interning on film projects, he anticipates additional film work this year. In January, he began a work training program at a martial arts school in the Bronx, learning to become an instructor. Ms. Childs also temporarily worked at a   job with the federal Women, Infants and Children program. She has also taught English to children in their Bronx neighborhood and plans to return to school to study early childhood education and later open a toddler education program, based on the family’s educational approach at home. The family brings in $950 monthly, and currently has about $2, 000 in rent arrears. HomeBase provided the family with $340 in July to buy a dresser and a toddler bed for Talea. Then in September, Catholic Charities provided $162. 85 in Neediest Cases funds to cover the cost of Talea’s school clothes and bedding. Through public assistance, the family can use child care centers that are suggested and subsidized by the city. The family tried several of those education programs last year, but the workload and environment were not stimulating, Ms. Childs said, so she enrolled Talea at a Montessori school, where the family receives financial aid, in late October and doubled her efforts at home. The Childses have applied to five independent schools, where they believe Talea could thrive next school year, but the costs  —   estimated at $25, 000 to $45, 000 annually  —   are high. They have applied for financial aid to the schools through Early Steps, a nonprofit intended to increase diversity within kindergarten and   classrooms in independent schools. Talea will find out in February if she is accepted to any of the schools. At night, the family dresses up and improvises plays, which Mr. Childs records. Many end in life lessons.   is not one of them. While sitting on a park bench on a recent   outing, Ms. Childs said, she had a conversation with another mother who did not agree that everyone deserved the same chances. Unaware that the Childs family receives welfare, the woman depicted recipients as sloths sitting at home, sending their children to overpriced day care centers. “But is that who we are?” Ms. Childs asked, recalling the conversation. “The assumption is if you’re on public assistance, you don’t want to work. Yes, we receive a check every month. But we also work and are involved in our kid’s life. We’re working hard to make something of ourselves. So, no, that’s not who we are at all. ”