The moment Joanna Acevedo first set foot in a boxing gym, she had a vision of herself standing in the ring, wearing gloves and trading blows with an opponent. But her adoptive mother refused to let her box. She was too much of a fighter out of the ring. Ms. Acevedo, who as a child would not back down from a schoolyard brawl, said her irascible nature stemmed from years spent in the foster system. Her birth mother had a substance abuse problem, and her father was in prison for much of her life. “I grew up not being loved at all,” Ms. Acevedo, 22, said. “If you tell me how it feels for somebody to love me, I wouldn’t even know. ” She distracted herself with heavy partying and dropped out of high school. In 2011, Ms. Acevedo was arrested on robbery and assault charges. After her release from the Rikers Island jail complex, Ms. Acevedo vowed to correct her errant path. She returned to Fannie Lou Hamer Freedom High School in the South Bronx and received her diploma. She also connected with a social worker from the Children’s Aid Society, one of the eight organizations supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. Then Ms. Acevedo finally took up boxing. “Boxing has changed my life from zero to 100,” she said. “It helped me stop drinking, smoking, clubbing. That’s all I was doing at one point. ” The sport brought   and a focus she had never known. Ms. Acevedo devoted herself to it, competing in numerous tournaments across New York City. In 2014, she learned she was pregnant. Her first instinct was not to go through with the pregnancy. But she decided to become a mother in part because she dreamed of training alongside her daughter at the boxing gym. Ms. Acevedo gave birth to Serenity in July 2015. Her daughter, she said, has helped her experience life in a new way. “The only love I have is for my daughter,” Ms. Acevedo said. “Once I had my daughter and I cried, I felt like this is how it feels to be loved. I love her like crazy. ” Serenity was born with a rare condition called optic nerve hypoplasia. In utero, her pituitary gland shifted in her brain, preventing her optic nerves from fully developing. The extent of her blindness is still unknown. “That’s a one in a million,” Ms. Acevedo said. “My daughter got it. That’s not fair. ” A month after Serenity was born, her father was arrested, and Ms. Acevedo and her baby moved into her mother’s home in the Bronx. Ms. Acevedo does not work. Much of her time is dedicated to caring for Serenity, administering medications and taking her to doctors. Each month, Ms. Acevedo receives about $250 in federal assistance. She is in the process of applying for disability benefits for Serenity. In June, Ms. Acevedo was given $250 from the Neediest Cases Fund by the Children’s Aid Society for gift cards, which were used to buy clothing and food. For a time Ms. Acevedo was able to continue boxing, taking her daughter with her to the gym. As Serenity grew older, more apt to squirm and cry, Ms. Acevedo had to stop going. “Sometimes people can’t accomplish their dream because of a certain situation they’ve got to put first,” she said. “That’s how I feel right now. I can’t really do what I’d love to do because I have to take care of her right now, put her first. ” Her dream of expanding her family has been postponed. Ms. Acevedo is hesitant to have more children, concerned that something could happen to them. And without an outlet for aggression, Ms. Acevedo has become more restless. She has picked back up what she admits is a bad habit: smoking. But she said she would go no further than cigarettes, for fear of losing her daughter. “That’s what keeps me focused,” she said. “I don’t want her reliving a life that I lived. ” Recent experiences have led Ms. Acevedo to consider a career in nursing, but she is not sure when or if she will be able to pursue it. There is no day care for blind children in the city, she said, and she does not trust others to care for Serenity as vigilantly as she does. Ms. Acevedo says she believes in God, and in miracles, and remains hopeful that modern medicine will find a remedy for her daughter’s condition. Ms. Acevedo laments what her daughter will miss: sunsets, the delight in the holiday spectacle of Rockefeller Center or the joy of animals at the zoo. “I’m going to wish she could do this with me, that with me,” Ms. Acevedo said. “I’m never going to let her know, of course. But deep down inside, closed in a room or when she’s sleeping, and I’m up at night, that’s going through my head. ”