The Sacramento County district attorney is investigating the fatal police shooting of a homeless black man who was hit 14 times in an encounter that was captured on dashboard cameras, leading to calls by his family for a federal investigation and for murder charges to be filed against the two officers. A lawyer for the family of the man, Joseph Mann, who was in his early 50s, said he had asked the Justice Department to investigate the episode in July, in which the white officers appeared in the video to be trying to run him over with their patrol car. “I see it as murder,” John L. Burris, a lawyer for the family of Mr. Mann, said on Monday. “They treated this person like he was a worthless human being. ” The officers were investigating reports on July 11 of an “armed man who was acting erratically” when they encountered Mr. Mann, according to a police statement. Police dashboard video footage shows them chasing Mr. Mann with their patrol car as he fled on foot. “I’m going to hit him,” one officer is heard saying. “Go for it,” another says. When the patrol car stopped, the officers ran after Mr. Mann and fired over a dozen times, according to the footage. He was later declared dead at a hospital. The video was one of three dashboard clips that the Police Department released on Sept. 20 after the shooting. But the case gained new attention after audio of the officers’ remarks were highlighted by The Sacramento News and Review  and by The Sacramento Bee last week. The shooting has raised questions about the department’s tactics and the officers’ response to someone who appeared to be behaving erratically. Mr. Mann’s family has described him as being mentally ill. On Monday, Mr. Burris said he had sent a letter urging the Justice Department to investigate the Police Department and the officers’ use of a car “as a deadly weapon. ” He wants the district attorney’s office to charge the officers, John Tennis and Randy Lozoya, with murder, and said that with the release of the audio information from the dashboard camera, he had updated a federal lawsuit filed more than a month ago that alleged the excessive use of force. Shelly Orio, a spokeswoman for the district attorney’s office, said in an email on Monday that the office was investigating the shooting. In his letter, Mr. Burris wrote that Officer Tennis had a “long history of disturbing behavior,” referring to an episode in 1997 in which a black man, Albert Thiel, 35, died after the officer placed him in a chokehold. A Sacramento Police Department spokesman, Officer Matthew McPhail, when asked in a telephone interview on Monday whether the two officers had previous discipline issues, said he did not have records immediately available. He said the two officers, who had more than 25 years on the force, had been taken off patrols and placed on modified duty. Citing the civil suit, he referred further questions to the city attorney, James Sanchez, who did not immediately return a telephone message seeking comment on Monday. In  a statement on July 11, the Police Department said witnesses had reported a man with a knife, and one said the suspect had a firearm in his waistband. When officers arrived, they tried to “ ” the situation, the statement said. Mr. Mann threw an object at one of the police vehicles following him, the authorities said. Officers shouted at him through the patrol car’s loudspeaker to “get on the ground,” put his hands in the air, stop walking and drop the knife. “Sir, we don’t want to hurt you drop the knife,” an officer can be heard saying in one of the dashboard videos. The police statement said that Mr. Mann was “reaching for his waistband as if he was trying to retrieve a weapon” and that he charged at a police vehicle with a knife held above his head. After the officers chased him, he “turned back towards them, armed with a knife,” and they opened fire, the police said. Police Chief Sam Somers Jr. said at a news conference on Sept. 20 that the officers had fired 18 shots, 14 of which struck Mr. Mann, according to The Associated Press. A cellphone video posted on Mr. Burris’s YouTube channel shows Mr. Mann performing what looked like martial arts moves in the street as officers asked him to drop the knife. The lawyer said that the officers “had a right to respond,” but that Mr. Mann’s “odd maneuvers” reflected a person who was having mental and emotional problems. “That is the kind of assessment the officers should have made,” he said.