Mario Chasi stood in the middle of one of the 45 corrugated steel stalls that line the former warehouse in the Hunts Point section of the Bronx where he hopes to   his body shop. Mr. Chasi, a heavyset auto mechanic, is a refugee from Willets Point, Queens, a ramshackle colony of auto repair, muffler, glass and tire shops next to Citi Field. In 2013, he was among a group of business owners and mechanics evicted from the area, with its broken streets and potholes as big as a bathtub, to make way for a planned redevelopment. While the project has been stalled in court, Mr. Chasi and more than three dozen other former inhabitants of Willets Points have struggled for more than two years to convert the warehouse where he was standing last week into an auto mart of sorts called the Sunrise Cooperative. But with the construction nearly complete, Sunrise ran out of money, and filed for bankruptcy protection on Sept. 23. The cooperative’s last, best chance is that New York City will come to the rescue with additional financing. “I find it hard to think about what will happen if Sunrise doesn’t open,” said Mr. Chasi, who immigrated from Ecuador 15 years ago and started Cuenca Auto Body, with three employees. “I want to open as fast as possible. I’m ready to work. It’s the last hope. ” City officials said that Sunrise, which has already received more than $7 million in relocation funds, had asked for another $3 million to pay old bills, finish construction and cover its initial operating costs. But the officials were noncommital about whether more money would be forthcoming. “We have worked in good faith for years to help the   get onto firm footing,” said Anthony Hogrebe, a spokesman for the city’s Economic Development Corporation. “We are staying in close contact with them to understand their needs, and the cause of the overruns. ” It would be a shame to let the Sunrise cooperative fail when it is so close to opening, Harvey Epstein said, associate director of the Urban Justice Center, which represents Sunrise. “We’re hopeful that the city’ll continue to work with Sunrise to have a   cooperative in the Bronx,” he said. “It will set the model for keeping low wage businesses together, even after their neighborhood has been rezoned. ” In 2007, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg first announced plans to turn Willets Point, also known as the Iron Triangle, into the “next great neighborhood” with 5, 500 apartments, a convention center and office space. City officials regarded the   auto repair enclave as an eyesore whose dusty streets flooded when it rained, but Willets Point was home to about 225 mostly   businesses and 1, 700 workers who earned anywhere from $80 to $140 a day. Those kinds of industrial,   jobs have not fared well amid the city’s rising tide of luxury housing and gentrification over the past 20 years. “There’s no institutional commitment in the city to preserving industry,” said Tom Angotti, a professor of urban affairs and planning at Hunter College. “But it’s been shown time and again that diverse economies are more resilient. ” In the case of Willets Point, city officials said the shops would have to move. There were protests and   but in 2013, the City Council approved a $3 billion Willets Point redevelopment plan, which called for a hotel and a 1    mall next to the stadium. The developers  —   the Related Companies and Sterling Equities, whose principals own Citi Field and the Mets  —   were required to build 2, 500 apartments, 875 for low and   tenants, beginning in 2025, although they had the option of paying the city $35 million to get out of the obligation. A lawsuit filed by the City Club of New York, a civic group, and some business and property owners has slowed any progress. The developers so far have lost in court, and have appealed, although the city declined to join the appeal. But under Mayor Bill de Blasio, a Democrat, the city has continued to buy land in Willets Point and to evict businesses in the area. The city has already spent $264 million of a $474 million budget for land, demolition, cleaning up toxic materials and building highway ramps. The Sunrise Cooperative also sued the city, settling in 2015, after the city agreed to provide the group with $5. 8 million to move collectively to the Bronx warehouse. Marco Neira, president of Sunrise, said the group wanted to replicate the critical mass of   businesses at Willets Point that had attracted customers who knew they could find a good deal by hunting from shop to shop for the best price. Mr. Neira said he wanted to avoid what happened to printers in Manhattan, many of which failed after being forced to leave the printing district around Canal and Hudson Streets in the 1990s. Some relocated to Long Island City, where they are being forced out by development again. “All the printers in the buildings around me have been told to get out in the next year,” said Howard Weinstein, president of Candid Litho Printing, which moved to Long Island City 10 years ago and is moving again, possibly out of the city. “The number of apartment buildings going up here is out of control. ” Members of the Sunrise Cooperative said that their building in Hunts Point  —   and industrial section close to the Interstate 278 that is home to the city’s produce and fish markets  —   is unlikely to face the same sort of gentrification. The price of converting the property has soared because of delays and the cost of constructing in accordance with building and fire codes. Sunrise has exhausted its own money as well as $7. 6 million in city relocation financing. Sunrise estimates that it needs another $2 million to pay outstanding bills and finish construction and $1 million more for operating costs in the first year. Former Willets Point business owners like Mr. Chasi and Jorge Molina, who owned the House of Shocks, often set up shop in front of the   Iron Triangle shops with compressors, tool bags and spare parts piled into the back of pickup trucks or vans. “I have some customers, maybe 100, waiting for the shop to open,” said Robert Aguilar, who immigrated to New York from Mexico and owned Veterans Auto Repair. “In a good year, I made $70, 000. I had been looking to buy a house. But now: nothing. What money there is goes for food and rent. ”