We asked stars and filmmakers about their holiday traditions. Here are edited excerpts from their answers: My husband [Dwyane Wade of the Chicago Bulls] has been playing on Christmas Day for as long as we’ve been together. So I watch my husband play basketball. And how Christmas goes really depends on how the game goes. There was the infamous “Kobe shot” that ruined Christmas. And then there was the big Heat win over the Cavs, so we had a good Christmas. Before I started seeing Dwyane, [my family] would listen to the Broadway cast album of “Dreamgirls” and choose different parts. Some years, I got to be James Early, and some years Deena  —   but those were the rare years. Our favorite thing in our family wasn’t really the presents under the tree. We loved the stockings, especially my mom’s. She loved to open things, [and] we’d wrap, like, six beautiful boxes, so she’d think she was going to get down to a necklace or something. After about 10 minutes of opening all these packages and getting down to a Tiffany box, it would be a cotton ball. We still do that. [My son] Levi wrapped a   in five boxes. And [my wife] Camila really thought she was going to get this awesome thing we found in our travels. You’ve got to have a sense of humor to live in this family. I think one of the greatest Christmas movies of all times is “It’s a Wonderful Life. ” As clichéd as it sounds, it says a lot about the idea that we don’t know the profound effect we have on one another’s lives. I’m also a huge fan of “How the Grinch Stole Christmas. ” My kids are 24 and 27, and we always used to make a family tradition of watching it. I love that the Grinch is such a miserable soul. We can all relate to that sometimes. We’re actually going to Cuba this year, and I’ve got “The Grinch” on a DVD. When I was younger, “Home Alone” was one of my favorite movies to watch around the holidays. Something about being around family and watching a family movie like that just got me in the spirit. You watched so much that you knew it like the back of your hand. Christmas in my family is when everybody is dropping everything to come together. I live in Atlanta, but I always go back to home to Milwaukee, where I’m from, because a holiday without snow or cold weather is weird. My favorite Christmas movie is always “It’s a Wonderful Life. ” But I like to listen to music more than anything else: the Phil Spector Christmas album [“A Christmas Gift for You From Phil Spector”] some Bing Crosby and Frank Sinatra, maybe make myself feel smarter with some Bach. In New Orleans, where I live, they have a tradition on Christmas Eve called the Réveillon, where they start eating about midnight, gumbo and all sorts of foods. I’m going to miss it this year. I’ll be in New York [performing in “The Front Page” on Broadway] which is always a treat. As a fortunate member of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, that is the time of year that we try to catch up on all of the different films that we hear good things about. My family is grown up now, so they’re in different cities, but we try to spend Christmas together. We have a screening room, and we light a fire and have dinner and watch a movie every night. Bring your pajamas. My sister and I come home [to Canada] and regress into    narcissists and make everybody watch home movies of us and applaud how cute we are. My mom tries to class it up with “Miracle on 34th Street,” but we’re not drawn to that as much as our recorded lives. I just got a house in Los Angeles, and now there’s a whole new world of people to invite over and be like, “Bet you guys haven’t seen this. ” I celebrate Christmas in Spain, where my family lives, and we sit down to dinner with 20 [to] 30 people. [We also] go to the movies. We normally choose a movie everyone can watch, and it’s always a big argument, trying to get 10 or more people to agree. I remember when I was a kid, the first movie I saw was “Superman,” and my parents took me during Christmas. This year, I think for sure we want to see the “Star Wars” movie. This year we’re going to go see my mom in Oklahoma City. She’s 95 and confined to a bed in her own home with   care, thanks to “Will  Grace,” so we’re going to arrange for her to get to a theater to see [“Why Him? ”]. She wants to see it. It [will] be a bit of a production. She can’t sit up for extended periods of time, so [she’s] going in her reclining wheelchair, and we’re taking at least two of her beautiful caregivers with us. The movie is really dirty, but she liked a good dirty joke back in the day. My boyfriend [the writer and director Sebastian Gutierrez] is from South America, and so Christmas Eve is our big celebration. While cooking and [drinking] wine and opening presents each hour, we watch “Raiders of the Lost Ark”  —   just because it’s one of the best movies ever made. I love Karen Allen’s performance so much. You’re on fire with your cooking when that movie is playing. And in the ultimate Christmas spirit, “Raiders” is about Jewish artifacts that are going to defeat evil. So it’s appropriate to the day.