In 1832, during a performance of “Richard III” at the Bowery Theater in Manhattan, 300 boisterous audience members joined the cast onstage to participate in the final sword fight and the slaying of the tyrannical King Richard. According to a newspaper account, “the audience mingled with the soldiers and raced across the stage” and during the last duel “made a ring around the combatants to see fair play, and kept them at it for nearly a quarter of an hour. ” In today’s theater, where audience members are admonished to unwrap their candy in advance to avoid making a sound, such a scene is hard to fathom in the   theater, it was of a piece (although on the rowdy side of the spectrum) with standard audience behavior. Attending the theater before 1850 or so in the United States was far more akin to attending a football game today than to attending contemporary theater. The audience was expected to make some noise, and as the scene at “Richard III” shows, it exercised the right to influence what happened on the stage as well  —   not just by buying tickets, but also by speaking up and acting out. People attended the theater to be seen and to be heard. They went to make themselves visible as the “people” of a democratic nation, and they went to debate, enact and imagine political issues concerning class relations, immigration, federalism, Indian policy and the future shape of the nation. [ Wherever we fall on the political spectrum, we’re going to see our desires and fears reflected in theater ] The vitality of early theater and its history as a place for spirited debate came to mind when   Donald J. Trump admonished the cast of “Hamilton” on Twitter for addressing Vice   Mike Pence at the theater. The cast and creators of “Hamilton” have conjured a wildly popular   multiracial version of the early United States on the Broadway stage, revising a longstanding image of the white founding fathers in ways that make visible the racial diversity of the nation at its origins and today. And in their recent address, they have also brought us back to a theater in which politics extends off the stage and into the audience. But while the “Hamilton” cast spoke directly to the audience from the stage, the audience has historically spoken back as well, and in ways that few are aware of today. Far more so than the voting booth (which restricted who could vote not only on the basis of race and gender, but also on the basis of wealth, meaning only half of white men were eligible to vote in 1800) the theater itself was a place where people of many different classes, races and religions  —   including   Native Americans, Jews, Muslims,   whites and immigrant Irishmen  —   appeared onstage and often in the audience as well. In the early 19th century,   “Bowery B’hoys” in New York City attended the theater in droves and recited Shakespeare by heart  —   correcting actors when they missed a line. And although it was officially illegal for   (free or enslaved) to attend the theater in late   Charleston, S. C. I have found newspaper evidence that significant numbers of   regularly attended and were considered an important component of the audience by the performers onstage. Actors addressed the audience, and the audience spoke back: In theaters from Baltimore to Boston, attendees routinely insisted that musicians repeat the songs they loved multiple times, castigated actors who missed lines and questioned casting decisions. Newspaper accounts of theater performance in the 19th century often refer to actors as continuing a play “in dumb show”: This describes a moment when the actors continue to perform without being heard because crowd noise has drowned out the sound of any lines pronounced by the actors. The audience frequently felt free to substitute its own voice for that of the script being spoken onstage. Theatergoers understood themselves to be part of the performance rather than passive observers of actions occurring onstage. In 1801, Washington Irving wrote of attending the theater in New York City, where he was assaulted by apples, nuts and gingerbread thrown from the “gallery gods”  —   the people sitting in the cheap seats at the top of balcony  —   onto the heads of those in the audience below. Irving was “a little irritated at being saluted aside of my head with a rotten pippin” but brushed it off because the assault was not aimed at him in particular. It was, he concluded, the    right of the working class to make its presence known to the elite. This was not just unruly behavior. It was democratic performance in action. As one American critic wrote in 1805, “The public, in the final resort, govern the stage. ” Actors and theater managers were held accountable to a vocal public  —   a public that did not vote merely with its feet but with eggs, rotten apples, peanut shells, pumpkins and even, according to one account, the occasional sheep carcass that was tossed onstage. Debate was allowed  —   between sections of the audience and between the audience and the actors  —   because the audience was understood to be a reflection of a diverse public, a public that had space to cheer, jeer, sing and debate together. The theater is no longer that space for the most part, audiences now sit in the dark and assume the role of private consumers, not that of representatives of the people. And tickets to the theater  —   especially in the case of a Broadway megahit like “Hamilton”  —   are so expensive that the sort of class contention played out upon Irving’s head would no longer be imaginable only the wealthy can pay the full price of admission. But when Brandon Victor Dixon, a “Hamilton” cast member, urged Mr. Pence to embrace an inclusive version of the American people, he brought the theater of the founding period vividly to life. Speaking on behalf of his fellow actors and the show’s creators, he crossed the line between actor and audience, not to harass Mr. Pence, but to use the public space of theater to debate the ideal nature of that public, just as audience members routinely did in the days when Hamilton himself attended the theater. This is the longstanding and perhaps too rarely used promise of live theater  —   a promise realized in dialogue and debate over the collective creation of a community through living presence and theatrical representation. Mr. Trump has called upon the cast to apologize, but in doing so, he is closing a democratic opening  —   an open stage where people have historically found a place for their voices to be heard in counterpoint and chorus, even when their voices did not count at the ballot box. Far from demanding an apology, we might want to thank the cast of “Hamilton” for reminding us of the history of public debate and live, messy democracy in the theater and for reminding us that theater and performance are powerful resources for embodying and imagining community together.