Two days after Donald Trump was elected president, Mark Zuckerberg, chief executive of Facebook, sat onstage at a   outside San Francisco and spoke of his deep understanding of the feelings of American voters. He was appearing at Techonomy’s annual retreat, a meeting of thought leaders in the worlds of technology, government, academia and business, and he was responding to a common criticism  —   the notion that Trump’s unconventional path to victory had benefited from a detour through Facebook, where a “filter bubble” distorts the flow of information and fake news stories loom large. “There is a certain profound lack of empathy,” he said, “in asserting that the only reason why someone could have voted the way they did is because they saw some fake news. If you believe that, then I don’t think you have internalized the message that Trump supporters are trying to send in this election. ” When asked to articulate that message, he dodged the question. “Empathy” is one of Facebook’s   favorite buzzwords. For years, Zuckerberg has hopped from conference to conference in a selection of muted hoodies and   delivering variations on the same pitch. “More people are using Facebook to share more stuff,” he said in 2010. “That means that if we want, there’s more out there that we can go look at and research and understand what’s going on with the people around us. And I just think that leads to broader empathy, understanding  —   just a lot of good, core, human things that make society function better. ” If you think Facebook may have had a hand in tipping popular opinion toward Trump, Zuckerberg seemed to suggest at the Ritz, then something was wrong with you  —   something that could be fixed by spending more time on Facebook. He is not the only one shopping empathy as a cure for what ails us. In recent months, the Inspired Life blog of The Washington Post suggested “empathy for Trump voters. ” In a Times   article, Glenn Beck wrote, “Wouldn’t we all benefit from trying to empathize with people we disagree with?” It all feels like a bit of a throwback: Just as many of our modern, scientific mechanisms for gauging the national mood  —   things like   polling and data journalism  —   failed to predict Trump’s victory, there has been a call for Americans to reach out and touch one another more directly. But there is a curiously strategic underpinning to these calls for empathy, too. Empathy, after all, is not sympathy. Sympathy encourages a close affinity with other people: You feel their pain. Empathy suggests something more technical  —   a dispassionate approach to understanding the emotions of others. And these days, it often seems to mean understanding their pain just enough to get something out of it  —   to manipulate political, technological and consumerist outcomes in our own favor. “Empathy” first arose to explain our relationship to objects, not to other human beings. The word comes from the German einfühlung (ein for “in” and fühlung for “feeling”) a concept in   aesthetics. Einfühlung described the act of “feeling into” art and nature, or projecting yourself into an aesthetic object. Soon “empathy” came to describe how human beings related to one another as objects: Like modern neuroscience, it looked for the roots of human emotions in “the material body and the interworking of its parts,” in the study of “muscles and nerves. ” This turn toward “empathy” let people cast off the cultural baggage of “sympathy,” a word suddenly seen as soaked in sentimentality, tied up with ideas of Christian virtue, moral obligation and pity. The Indiana University professor Rae Greiner, author of a book about sympathy in   fiction, has written that by the dawn of the 20th century, “sympathy seemed to belong to the Victorians, empathy to us. ” A century later, the rise of social networking means our interactions are once again mediated through our relationship with objects. The theorist Marshall McLuhan once assumed this computerization of culture would lead to a rise in empathetic connection. “The aspiration of our time for wholeness, empathy and depth of awareness is a natural adjunct of electric technology,” he wrote in “Understanding Media,” published in 1964 the computer promised a “Pentecostal condition of universal understanding and unity. ” But it wound up offering something else too: a convenient alternative to costly, messy interactions with human beings. What social networks like Facebook really offer is empathy in the aggregate  —   an illusion of having captured the mood of entire families and friend networks from a safe, neutral distance. Then they turn around and offer advertisers a read on more than a billion users at once. Buzz Andersen  —   a tech veteran who has worked for Apple, Tumblr and Square  —   told me that in Silicon Valley, “empathy is basically a more   way of saying ‘market research. ’’u2009” And in a marketplace, you’re not trying to understand other people out of altruism or moral responsibility you’re doing it out of  . In the days after the election, many commenters chafed at the idea that they ought to perform the work of empathizing with Trump’s supporters. Shouldn’t they  —   the people who elected him  —   try a little empathy for the lives that stand to be crushed by his policies? The market’s answer to this question is “no. ” There is no movement for   Americans to be more empathetic because they won. The nation has already bought what they were selling. The call for   to cultivate empathy isn’t about finding instructive truths in others’ worldviews it’s about understanding their motivations well enough to persuade them to vote differently. Empathy is naturally irrational, cautions the Yale psychology professor Paul Bloom, author of a new book titled “Against Empathy: The Case for Rational Compassion. ” It’s more likely to activate in the face of one sad story than on the scale of widespread human tragedy. It’s manipulative too: Directing a crowd’s empathy toward one victim can cultivate anger and aggression toward other targets, even if they’re not responsible for the victim’s suffering. In a case like Zuckerberg’s, empathy can be a strategy for avoiding responsibility. On a recent rainy day, I left my office to see empathy leveraged in yet another way. Upworthy, a purveyor of   viral content, had constructed a   “empathy lab” in a nearby park. A black curtain was pulled around a chair and a computer outfitted with software that could map the face at 500 points and analyze its emotional expressions. Participants watched a video  —   in my case, a short clip about a young boy with Down syndrome. Outside, a crowd watched a Jumbotron, on which squiggly lines tracked the participant’s empathetic expressions against the average reaction. At the video’s conclusion, an “empathy score” flashed on the screen. Upworthy is invested in empathy because it has found that emotionally engaging content shares well on Facebook  —   but also, its reps say, because it can prompt   action. Upworthy’s business model relies mainly on the former. Shortly after I arrived, a woman emerged from behind the curtain to spontaneous applause. She had received an empathy rating of 98  —   the day’s high score. It was an odd image, like Facebook projected into real life: A woman lauded for sitting alone, watching a video. In the Victorian era, some critics worried that moralistic novels would channel people’s sympathy into books instead of out into the world. Facebook takes it a step further, rerouting our attempts at empathetic connection back at us. When we reach out to one another, we’re often just feeling ourselves.