Bud Selig, the folksy former commissioner of Major League Baseball who presided over an unprecedented period of expansion, innovation and turmoil in the sport, was elected to the Hall of Fame on Sunday by the hall’s restructured veterans committee along with John Schuerholz, the World   general manager with the Atlanta Braves and the Kansas City Royals. “To say this is a great day in my life would be an understatement,” Selig said on a conference call Sunday. “I’ve looked forward to this day for a long time and I’m really honored to say the least. ” Selig was named on 15 ballots and Schuerholz on all 16 from a new version of the veterans’ committee created to consider not only older players but also candidates who are not eligible for election through the traditional process, a vote by baseball writers. The group, the Today’s Game Era Committee, is made up of eight Hall of Fame inductees, five M. L. B. executives and three writers and historians. Inductees needed a minimum of 12 votes at baseball’s winter meetings outside of Washington. Selig and Schuerholz will be inducted into the Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, N. Y. in July. George Steinbrenner, the owner of the Yankees from 1973 until his death in 2010, was also on the ballot but received fewer than five votes, failing to be elected for the third time. Also on the ballot were the former players Mark McGwire, Albert Belle, Harold Baines, Orel Hershiser and Will Clark. Davey Johnson and Lou Piniella were also considered for their careers as managers. McGwire, who hit 583 home runs but admitted to using steroids during his playing career, also received fewer than five votes. Selig, the original owner of the Milwaukee Brewers, led baseball from 1992 through 2014, one of the most dynamic and controversial periods in its history, in which the sport grew into a $10    industry. He governed, in part, through his ability to build consensus among the owners, perhaps his greatest skill. “We were a sport resistant to change,” Selig said. “I believe in those years that is the most change in baseball history. ” Selig, 82, was the acting commissioner during the worst strike in baseball history, a work stoppage that wiped out the 1994 World Series, and the   steroid era that so badly tarnished the image of the game. But baseball has now gone 22 years without a work stoppage, and, after great upheaval and acrimony, it has instituted a stringent drug policy. “Yes, it was terribly painful, broke my heart,” he said of the 1994 strike. “But it served as a great lesson and we took it. The same thing with the steroid thing. Yes it was painful, yes it had its ups and downs. But we solved that problem. We now have the toughest testing program in American sports. ” Selig is credited with introducing popular innovations including the   playoff system, realignment, interleague play and television replay of umpires’ decisions, as well as with the creation of baseball’s lucrative internet presence, M. L. B. Advanced Media. More than anything, Selig was a tireless supporter of   and midmarket teams, pushing through   policies that redistributed millions of dollars from the larger market teams to the smaller ones. That, combined with the increased number of playoff spots, gave clubs from cities like Detroit, Houston, Kansas City and Tampa Bay entrée into the World Series in recent years. “What I inherited in ’92 was a system that was archaic and hadn’t been changed since what I call the Ebetts Field and Polo Grounds days,” he said. “I am proudest of that. It was painful and took a lot of time, but it saved a lot of   clubs who would tell you they wouldn’t be in business. ” Another of Selig’s legacies  —   tethering the result of the   Game to   advantage in the World Series  —   was rescinded in the latest version of baseball’s collective bargaining agreement with its players’ union. Selig was also an advocate for recognizing baseball’s role as a social institution. In 1997, he was instrumental in honoring Jackie Robinson, who broke baseball’s color barrier in 1947, by having all teams retire Robinson’s No. 42. Once a minority owner of the Milwaukee Braves, Selig brought baseball back to Wisconsin in 1970 when he bought the Seattle Pilots, renamed them the Brewers and moved them into Milwaukee’s County Stadium. He succeeded Fay Vincent, of whom he had been critical as an owner, as the acting commissioner of baseball in 1992, then assumed the role permanently in 1998. Schuerholz, 76, was the general manager of the Royals from 1981 until 1990 and presided over their 1985 World Series championship. He moved to Atlanta in 1990 to rebuild the   Braves, and within a year he had constructed a team that would go on to win 14 consecutive National League East titles (not including the strike year of 1994) five National League pennants and the 1995 World Series. Results of the regular annual election, the baseball writers’ vote on recently retired candidates, will be announced on Jan. 18.