The phrase “ghost train” conjures up eerie, fantastical images: a spectral locomotive barreling through the night, passengers doomed to ride the rails forever. In Britain, ghost trains are real  —   but they’re more of a bureaucratic curiosity than a Halloween nightmare. They are scheduled passenger trains that hardly anyone actually rides, running infrequently at obscure hours and stopping at stations that almost no one uses. They might operate only once a week or in only one direction. Other than a lonely crew member or two, they are often completely empty. Why do they even operate? Believe it or not, to save money. Railway companies would rather not serve these routes at all, because they generate too little traffic. But if the companies discontinued the routes completely, they would be obliged under British law to formally abandon the lines, and that’s a very costly,   and legally complex business. The only way to avoid that trouble and expense is to maintain some passenger service on the line, even if only on the barest of   schedules. So the railways run the ghost trains, officially called parliamentary trains, just to satisfy the law  —   and don’t care whether anyone rides them. And it shows. At the stations where they originate, the railway may not bother to list parliamentary trains on the departure board or announce which platform they will use until the last minute, resulting in a mad dash by the rare intrepid traveler hoping to board. One of the more accessible ghost train experiences leaves at 11:36 a. m. on weekdays from Paddington Station in London, bound for West Ruislip over the    line. Its platform is hidden in a far corner of the station, behind a temporary construction wall. On a recent run, there were just six passengers. One was Steve Hamshere, who had come to London from Berkshire, about 50 miles away, specifically to ride that train. “This line was built by the Great Western Railway and was the main line to Birmingham up until the 1960s,” Mr. Hamshere said. These days the Birmingham trains go a different way, and    is kept open mainly as a quiet place where new drivers can practice away from other traffic. Obscurity and the relative difficulty of catching the parliamentary trains makes them strongly alluring for railway enthusiasts, who make a hobby out of riding as many as they can. Two ghost train fans, Liz Moralee and Tim   even run a website for fellow devotees. “It is great to have a whole train to yourself,” Ms. Moralee wrote in an email. One of her strangest trips, she said, was to the Teesside Airport railway station, one of the   in Britain. The parliamentary train there makes one round trip a week, on Sundays, and only 16 passengers used the station in all of 2015. The   walk from there to the airport terminal it was built to serve may be why. “It is far from convenient for anyone using the airport, unless they fancy a   trek,” Ms. Moralee said.