It did not matter that he could not speak English, that he was a month shy of graduating from high school, or that he would be leaving behind his mother and grandparents. Francisco Ramos’s father had summoned him to New York City. He had to go. His father had immigrated to the United States from Tenares, Dominican Republic, years earlier. In 2015, he secured a visa for his son, who joined him and three older brothers in an apartment in the Bronx. “The American dream was being sold to us,” Mr. Ramos, 19, said through a Spanish translator. “I thought I’d be better off here. ” Within a few months of the move, both of Mr. Ramos’s grandparents in the Dominican Republic died. His grief over their deaths made an already difficult period of adjustment  —   to a new city and a new pace of life  —   even harder. “My dad said, ‘I’ll take care of you,’” Mr. Ramos recalled, explaining that his father wanted him to focus on acquiring his high school equivalency diploma before worrying about a job. So Mr. Ramos made his way to the Next Generation Center in the South Bronx, where he enrolled in test preparation classes for his equivalency exam. The center, which is run by the Children’s Aid Society, helps young people make the transition to adulthood and independence. The society is one of the eight agencies supported by The New York Times’s Neediest Cases Fund. At the center, Mr. Ramos learned about an enticing opportunity: a partnership between the society and Juma Ventures, which employs young people in sports stadiums across the country. Interpreters were instrumental in helping Mr. Ramos through the interview process, and he was given a job at the food stands in Yankee Stadium. In March, the Next Generation Center drew $6, 706 from the Neediest funds, which allowed all of the young people in the partnership to buy weekly MetroCards, covering their travel to and from the stadium in the   period before they received their first paychecks. Money from the Neediest funds also enabled Mr. Ramos to buy professional attire. He was no stranger to work and responsibility, having helped his father harvest crops in the Dominican Republic. But his food service job gave Mr. Ramos a sense of purpose and allowed him to send money home to his mother and younger brother. Because of the seasonal nature of the stadium job, Mr. Ramos decided to hunt for   work. A cousin helped him get hired at Nobu Next Door, a Japanese restaurant in TriBeCa where he works as a dishwasher. Although Mr. Ramos never had ambitions to work in the industry, he now wants to become a prep cook. “Whatever it is I’m doing, if I can move up to the next step and have a better chance, this is what I want to do,” he said. To gain a leg up, Mr. Ramos sought out Brandon Henry, the catering manager at the Next Generation Center, where Mr. Henry offers basic cooking classes. He has been giving Mr. Ramos advanced    lessons, including instructions in complex knife skills and deboning techniques. “When I heard that he got a job at Nobu, I wanted to help him out,” Mr. Henry said. “He’s in a great spot right now. Whatever he needs, however I can help, I will. ” A third person often occupies the kitchen alongside Mr. Ramos and Mr. Henry, someone who translates for the two men, either a friend of Mr. Ramos, or his youth coach, Vanessa De La Rosa. His diploma studies have taken a back seat to his new career. The hard work and late nights on the job, which include a lengthy commute, have affected Mr. Ramos’s sleep. He often does not wake up for his classes, a problem Ms. De La Rosa said she had been urging him to fix. Mr. Ramos still plans to get his diploma. After that, he wants to enroll in a class to learn English, which he says he believes will increase his chances of getting into college. “I’m used to having to work, used to responsibility,” Mr. Ramos said. “If you have a positive attitude, nothing is hard. ”