The Queens shelter where Natasha Bell worked as a security guard was within walking distance from the one where she and her children lived. Ms. Bell slogged away at one   job after another, trying to piece together financial security for her family, only to be reminded how far she has to go when she returns home every night to the shelter. “I’ve had lots of jobs,” Ms. Bell, 34, said. “I’ve never stopped working. ” She traces her transience to the death of her grandmother, who raised her when her mother was unable. When Ms. Bell’s grandmother’s health declined, she dropped out of school at 16 to be by her side. In the years after her grandmother’s death, Ms. Bell lived in shelters operated by the Covenant House. She earned a high school equivalency diploma, got a job at a McDonald’s and moved into supportive housing. But she did not make enough to pay her bills. Her financial burdens significantly increased after the birth of her first daughter, Aziya, in 2006. Ms. Bell moved back into a shelter. “I felt down lots of times,” she said. “It was discouraging. It isn’t an easy place to be, especially with small children that like to play and crawl and cry and are hungry. ” At times, Ms. Bell stayed with Aziya’s father. The couple had a second child, Anyla, in 2009. But they could not make living together work, and she was homeless yet again and plagued by a familiar shame. Ashamed about their life, Ms. Bell instructed her daughters not to mention that their home was a shelter when they were out in public. In 2007, Ms. Bell was hired as a security guard, working at various shelters, a role that kept her close to people whose lives mirrored her own. “I got to meet a lot of people, a lot of people going through the same experiences that I went through,” Ms. Bell said. “A lot of people have been through worse things than I have been through and that gave me a lot of motivation to continue as well. ” What she did not realize until years later was the influence she had on the people she had met. On two separate occasions, while working at the Bellevue Men’s Shelter in Manhattan in 2013, Ms. Bell encountered security employees whom she did not remember at first, but they recognized her immediately. Both were former residents of shelters where Ms. Bell had worked. They credited her with inspiring their careers. That same year, while residing at the 93rd Avenue Family Residence, Ms. Bell attended an information session held by Semiperm Housing, a partner organization of the Community Service Society, one of eight organizations supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. Semiperm Housing helps homeless single parents and their children find permanent housing, and offers support services for residents, like child care, counseling, financial literacy and parenting courses. “I thought it would be a great program for me and my girls to stop the cycle of going in and out of shelters,” Ms. Bell said. She had grown demoralized, thinking she might never have a place of her own to call home, somewhere free of   logs and curfews. Ms. Bell and her daughters moved into the Semiperm Housing facility in Manhattan later that year. In April 2015, Ms. Bell left her security job to take a   job with the city’s Department of Education as a teacher’s assistant at a Manhattan elementary school. She enrolled at Hostos Community College to work toward an associate degree in early childhood education, though she had to take the semester off to deal with a health scare. In February, Community Service Society used $1, 085 in Neediest funds to buy living room furniture for Ms. Bell, as well as $116. 50 for a monthly MetroCard to travel to work. The furniture helped create a sense of permanence for the family, though memories of shelter life still linger with Aziya, who occasionally asks Ms. Bell if they will have to move again. Since Aziya’s birth, Ms. Bell has grown closer to her own mother she is a bigger part of her grandchildren’s lives than she was of Ms. Bell’s at that age. The family sees her often. Ms. Bell is still struggling financially she has hefty credit card debt and owes $12, 050 in personal loans. She is also behind by $3, 549 on her rent. The Community Service Society is working to help pay the back rent with an additional $981 in Neediest Cases funds. United Way’s Emergency Food and Shelter program has also provided money, and additional money that Ms. Bell received from HomeBase, a program in the city’s Department of Homeless Services, will pay off the back rent. Despite worries about paying off her debt and her history of instability, Ms. Bell said she was focused on her goals and undaunted by her continued struggles. “I don’t think it will be easy, because nothing is easy,” she said. “I think it will be a challenge, but I’m up for a challenge. ”