LONDON  —   Without fanfare or flourish, the   Cherry Jones has calmly established her place as one of the major stage actresses in the United States. She has won two Tony Awards, received an Emmy for her role as President Allison Taylor in “24,” and earned rave reviews both on and off Broadway. But she had appeared in just one production in Britain  —   at last year’s Edinburgh International Festival, in John Tiffany’s production of Tennessee Williams’s “The Glass Menagerie. ” As Amanda Wingfield  —   a desperate single mother trying to hold on to her alienated son, Tom, and find a viable life for her disabled and shy daughter, Laura  —   Ms. Jones triumphed both in the production’s original run on Broadway in 2013 and in Edinburgh. She was “an Amanda that may someday be spoken of with the awe that surrounds Laurette Taylor’s creation of the part nearly 70 years ago,” the critic Ben Brantley wrote in The New York Times after the Broadway opening. Now Mr. Tiffany (who directed the hugely successful “Harry Potter and the Cursed Child” in London last year) has brought that production to the Duke of York’s Theater in London’s West End, where it opened this week. (Michael Esper and Kate O’Flynn will play Tom and Laura, with Brian J. Smith as the Gentleman Caller.) There, Ms. Jones, 60, has finally made her London debut, some 40 years after she created a folder and named it “My Career on the British Stage. ” In a Skype call from Paris, Tenn. where she grew up, Ms. Jones talked about her early desire to act, her initial resistance to the role of Amanda and her growing love for the character. Here is an edited and condensed version of the conversation: Is there any reason that you’ve never performed in the West End? No, not really. It’s strange, because I have always wanted to work in England, I didn’t care where. My mother was a teacher of English and American literature, and she lived and breathed all things British. I first went there when I was 14. My parents had saved up and we went for the most wonderful two weeks, traveling all over. Afterward, I made a folder titled “My Career on the British stage. ” So you knew very early that you wanted to act? I never wanted to do anything else. I was always creating wonderful adventures with my neighborhood friends, assigning roles to people. My family was very supportive. And it all went pretty smoothly. I never had tremendous ambition, I was just thrilled to be in a repertory company, and when I came to New York and could work Off Broadway, or get little movie roles, I would feel so fortunate. Given your Southern background, Amanda Wingfield seems like a natural role for you. But you have said in interviews that you never wanted to play her. Why? I think I had a Southern chip on my shoulder. I felt she didn’t speak to me, I didn’t know who this woman was. I auditioned for the role of Laura several times, but I was too large. Then John Tiffany and I met through a mutual friend, at the time that my sister and I were clearing our family home here in Paris, Tennessee. I was telling John about the letters from my mother that I had found, and he said: “We’re going to work together and you are going to be my Amanda. ” Once you began to study the part, how did you feel? The moment I spoke her words in a reading, I knew who she was. I had grown up with her not quite with women in her situation, but women in dire straits. I am the last generation who really remembers those Southern women they had an elegance and nobility, and a real charm and style. When I was about 10, they were in their 70s and 80s, and I was mesmerized by the way they moved and spoke. For a long time I thought “war” was spelled “wawa” because of the way they said it. And the way they smelled, a lovely light powdered smell and the slight mustiness of mothballs, and hot chocolate and cheese biscuits. It was heaven. The language too, is so spot on. Every idiom, the musicality of it, is perfect. So perhaps your resistance to playing Amanda came from that closeness? Yes, perhaps I felt protective of those women, that the play was too exposing. When I did the first reading  —   with Michael Esper, who then came to the show for Edinburgh and now again in the West End  —   he made me understand the play and the family in a way I hadn’t before. I saw the possibilities in what he did with his role the love and gentleness he had. This isn’t a family that hate each other. They love each other, and we wouldn’t care, otherwise. Then John Tiffany seemed to understand the tone of each scene so beautifully. I didn’t realize what a loving, fearless woman Amanda is. She has to push her children, cajole, charm. I have never felt a woman more determined. Perhaps Tennessee Williams was creating the fighter that he would have liked his mother to be. This will be your third run in this production. Has your interpretation changed since the first Broadway season? I think it’s just the longer you do the part, the richer the memories get. What I mean is that I have her memories I can see those carriage rides in the country, those afternoons with the gentlemen callers. And I do believe there were 17 of them, and half of them were gay! No one had any money, they had a bit of  ’s silver and bought her some cotillion dresses, and the gay boys and straight boys would come over and they would drink sherry and have a rollicking good time. Philip Roth, the novelist, said that when writing, he can get to a point when he is not creating, he is just remembering his character’s memories. It’s like that.