When a Russian oncologist called her    daughter’s brain tumor “untreatable,” Elena Romanova researched alternatives through the night. A young mother of three, Ms. Romanova had spent a year and a half in a Moscow hospital as her daughter Ksenia Subbotina went through radiation, chemotherapy and two brain operations. Despite all of the treatment, the cancer had spread to her spine, and the doctor said Ms. Romanova should prepare    care for Ksenia. “I knew there was no cure in Russia,” Ms. Romanova said. “So the question was where to go next. ” That July night in 2012 she emailed doctors around the world about additional treatments. A doctor in London offered a screening for $32, 000 that included an M. R. I. and a pathology analysis to determine the next steps. Ms. Romanova did not have that much money. The Russian government had paid for hospital stays and general medication during Ksenia’s years there, but in order to secure better care, the family had slipped money to doctors and nurses, spending all of their meager savings. Her husband worked as a furniture builder to help pay expenses and to care for Ms. Romanova’s other children. She said they would have sold their car but needed it to get to the hospital. They eventually applied to The Russian Aid Foundation, or Rusfond, a charity providing financial help to families with critically ill children. In January 2013 Ms. Romanova and her daughter began a      journey that would take them to hospitals in cities around the world, where Ksenia received chemotherapy and proton radiation therapy, participated in clinical trials and underwent three additional brain operations. Rusfond provided money for six cycles of aggressive chemotherapy and two cycles of targeted chemotherapy in London. During that time, Ms. Romanova became fluent in English by reading medical reports and discussing treatments with British doctors. Eventually doctors in London suggested that they go to a proton therapy center in Prague for additional treatment. Since the aid covered only the treatments in London, she started a   website and Facebook page, hosted dinners to raise money and sold dried fruits on the street. In total, she said she paid another $180, 000 for treatments abroad. “We went where there was hope,” she said. “We had to keep fighting. If we fought long enough, maybe one day, they’d find something that worked. ” The fight continued into a new year, 2014, and in a new city, Houston. That January, Ksenia received a targeted chemotherapy treatment that caused excessive internal bleeding. It seemed she would not survive, until a doctor  —   “I will never forget his hands,” Ms. Romanova said  —   stopped the bleeding and removed part of the tumor. Her daughter healed, but could not continue the risky therapy. By then, Ms. Romanova had already secured an offer from Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan for a chemotherapy treatment in clinical trials, which began that February. So mother and daughter moved again, and the rest of the family joined them several months later. There, doctors found a cyst developing in her brain near problematic lesions, and decided to operate. The surgery left Ksenia’s left side weak and she was no longer able to walk. After another round of chemotherapy, her brain bled again. This time, doctors could not stop it. Ms. Romanova’s voice cracked recalling Ksenia’s final weeks, holding her daughter’s hand and praying for a miracle that did not come. She died on July 7, 2014. Unable to bear the thought of cremating her body to take her back to Russia, the family buried Ksenia in a cemetery in Rockland County, New York. They returned to Moscow in August, and Ms. Romanova said she sank into depression and had suicidal thoughts. “I didn’t feel anything at all,” she said. “I kept waiting for her to come back. I knew I had to live for my other kids. But without my youngest, every day was not right. ” Just two months after Ksenia’s death, her oldest daughter, Anna, then 13, lost feeling on her left side. Doctors in Russia said she had multiple sclerosis, but Ms. Romanova had doubts. She sent Anna’s medical records to friends in the United States, who shared them with doctors. Those doctors, she said, also questioned the diagnosis. Ms. Romanova took her children to Long Island on tourist visas in October 2014 for Anna to get treatment, and she improved. Her doctors, Ms. Romanova said, told her the ailments were most likely  . On a cold December night inside the family’s dimly lit Brooklyn apartment, Ms. Romanova, 34, spoke in soft tones about the daughter she lost. Splayed at her feet, her son, Artem, 11, shuttled a silver marble across the floor, sending the cat flying. Anna, now 15, huddled protectively over her mother as she recounted the story. Being in New York, Ms. Romanova said, reminds her of hopeful times, of Saturdays riding horses at Riverdale Stables in the Bronx and walks along the East River. “In New York, I felt closer to her,” Ms. Romanova said of Ksenia. Now, she hopes to make the city her permanent home. She applied for political asylum in March 2015, outlining the persecution she faced living as a practicing Baptist in Russia. She is still waiting for an interview for asylum. She works as a billing assistant at a medical office, earning $1, 400 a month. Unable to meet her family’s living expenses and $   rent, she took a second job in September as a home attendant, earning an extra $900 a month. She receives no public assistance, and her pending immigration status excludes her from receiving food stamps. She said that her marriage fell apart shortly after Ksenia’s death, and that she has no family in the United States to whom she could ask for support. Six months behind on bills, she eventually contacted Edith and Carl Marks Jewish Community House of Bensonhurst, a beneficiary agency of   of New York, one of eight organizations supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. The Marks JCH provided her with a $550 grant in November to pay for cooking gas and electricity. Ms. Romanova also enrolled in a job placement program there. Taped to the kitchen wall is a reminder to her children: “The most important thing in life is to be brave and follow your heart and intuition. ” She said she wanted Artem to excel in math and chess and Anna in singing and musical composition. As for herself, “I want to start over again,” Ms. Romanova said. “I just want to get a normal job and live a normal life with my kids. ”