Bruna Gomes has made the holiday rounds in New York City. The glittering windows at Macy’s. The Radio City Rockettes   with Santa. The pilgrimage to the Christmas tree at Rockefeller Center. Her new tradition? Staying home. “I promised myself I’d never go back because it’s so crowded,” Ms. Gomes, 22, said. It is supposed to be a festive time of year. But tell that to all the New Yorkers confronted by the crush of humanity at many of their cherished holiday destinations. Moms strategize about the best times to visit department store Santas with the precision of a military campaign. At Macy’s Santaland, desperate dads have tried to bribe the elves to skip past the long lines. The throngs of ice skaters and shoppers descending on Bryant Park’s Winter Village have taken up all the seats, choked walkways and brought foot traffic to a shuffle. The famed window displays along Fifth Avenue get so many admirers that just catching a glimpse can be hard, let alone taking a family photo. When Ms. Gomes broke her promise and recently took a friend to see the Christmas tree at Rockefeller Center, she found herself stranded in the middle of an intersection on Fifth Avenue. “I got stuck there,” she said. “I was literally standing in the crowd. ’’ As if New York City did not already have plenty of people, the holidays draw more each year as surely as children make wish lists and doormen count on tips. From Thanksgiving to New Year’s, the city attracts five million visitors  —   seemingly undeterred by security concerns  —   who provide a   boon to businesses and the city’s bottom line but who also overrun subways, streets and attractions. The annual “Christmas Spectacular Starring the Radio City Rockettes” plays to an audience of more than a million, or roughly the population of San Jose, Calif. each season. Every day, about 800, 000 people pass through Rockefeller Center, where the outsize tree draws crowds to match. Macy’s Christmas windows attract, on average, 8, 000 to 10, 000 people an hour, up from 5, 000 to 7, 000 a few years ago, according to the store. Upstairs, on the eighth floor,   inch through a maze of Christmas trees, stuffed reindeer and caroling snowmen in a painted   village. For those who know to make reservations ahead of time, there is an express   similar to the   used at Disney’s theme parks, guarded by   elves who have been offered a $20 or $50 bill by   line skippers. The   are not just piling into Manhattan. At the New York Botanical Garden in the Bronx, an annual holiday train show with model rail cars whirring past miniature replicas of city landmarks  —   new this year, the Queensboro Bridge and the Coney Island Cyclone and Wonder Wheel  —   brought out a record 266, 000 visitors last year, up from 165, 000 in 2010. Of course, what would New York City be without crowds? Want peace and quiet? Try the North Pole. Gregory Holmes, 32, who was visiting last week from Nashville, said he did not come to New York for serenity. “I love big crowds of people enjoying themselves that’s what New York is about, the hustle and bustle,” said Mr. Holmes, who was power shopping  —   spending more than $1, 500 on clothes and shoes at stores including Macy’s, HM and Uniqlo  —   in between taking in the sights. “More money is coming out of my pocket in the past three days than in the past two months. ” But even New Yorkers used to crowds are finding more visitors under foot and in the way. Kimberly Charles, a stylist from Brooklyn, says the window displays are so beautiful that she wants to stop and look. Yet, whenever she takes five steps toward them, she finds everyone else has the same idea. In recent years, she has mostly stayed away from the windows, though she cannot completely avoid the      who block the sidewalks. “It’s not road rage, it’s foot rage,” she said. “You’re just trying to get around everybody and keep going. ” Near the Holland Tunnel the other evening, Ms. Charles stopped short for another reason. Oshun Brown, 20, an    was turning pirouettes on Varick Street, handing out free candy canes, and posing with   pedestrians for “elfies. ” Ms. Charles walked past him and then turned around to get a candy cane. The holiday congestion had inspired a local group, Hudson Square Connection, which runs a business improvement district in the neighborhood, to start a new tradition: dispatching eight prancing and caroling elves along with traffic managers to keep the peace at heavily congested intersections. “There’s only so much you can do about congestion, so we thought, ‘Let’s make it fun,’” said Ellen Baer, the president of the Hudson Square Connection. Some holiday destinations have taken steps to reduce lines. At Bryant Park’s Winter Village, nestled among Midtown Manhattan skyscrapers, the free ice rink drew 247, 989 skaters last winter, more than double the number from a decade earlier. Hundreds used to wait two or three hours in lines that wrapped around the park. This year, the park streamlined the   process and introduced a   system that sends skaters text messages when it is their turn. The New York Botanical Garden accommodated the growing numbers at its train show by increasing the exhibit space by half, to 12, 800 square feet, last year. It has also added more   night hours where alcohol is served, with 11 “bar car nights” this year, up from three in 2011. And it has timed tickets so visitors do not have to wait in line. “Every year, it’s more popular,” said Henry Cabrera, the botanical garden’s associate vice president for visitor experience. “It’s a great problem to have. Probably in five years we’ll be thinking of what to do next. ” Along Fifth Avenue, the holiday sightseers have been joined this year by political aficionados and gawkers hoping for a glimpse of   Donald J. Trump, who lives and works at Trump Tower. Lloyd Kemp, 59, a Brooklyn resident who collects donations for the homeless, said he usually sets up outside Bergdorf Goodman, a block from Trump Tower, but was asked to move by the police as part of tighter security. So there was Mr. Kemp on the sidewalk in front of Saks Fifth Avenue, tucked in between the   windows and the metal barricades lining the street. One tourist after another stopped to ask him directions. The nearest subway? A good restaurant? He answered cheerfully in a booming voice. One woman, leaning back to take a photograph, tripped and fell against a barricade. He caught her arm. Another asked who had the best windows this year. Mr. Kemp’s money was on Saks, his new home. “This is more crowded than Trump Tower,” he said. “And this is more pleasant because people come here to uplift their spirits. ” As Christmas approaches, some of the biggest crowds can be found outside Macy’s Herald Square. It can be chaos, said Crosby Reynolds, 27, a street cleaner. People are crammed together. Some are yelling at others to get out of the way. They step on the litter he is trying to pick up. “I kind of wait until it loosens up a little and then I sneak in,” he said. Mr. Reynolds has yet to bring his    son to see the Macy’s windows. “It’s too much,” he said. “I see enough when I’m here. ”