It seemed like another normal day for José Rivera. His mother dropped him off at his school in San Salvador, hugging him tightly as she told him she would see him at the end of the day. But there was one detail that, even then at age 6, José thought was strange: She was crying. His mother, Flor de Maria Rivera, never returned to pick him up. A week later, he learned that his mother had left for the United States, to lay the groundwork for creating a better life for her family. Over the next 11 years, José and his younger brother, Juan, were raised by their grandmother. “I didn’t say goodbye because it would have been too difficult,” Ms. Rivera, 35, said in a recent interview. “I might have changed my mind. ” She worked in El Salvador as an elementary schoolteacher. She loved her job, but her meager salary was not enough to support the family  —   the boys’ father had abandoned them soon after Juan was born  —   especially after the death of her father, who often pitched in financially to help her. When Ms. Rivera arrived in New York City in 2005, she worked three different jobs. She never expected to stay in the United States for so long. “The first five years were almost unbearable,” she said. “I thought about the kids every day, cried every day. ” There was a time that Ms. Rivera nearly caved in and considered buying a plane ticket home, but she said her family discouraged her. As difficult as the separation was, Ms. Rivera took solace in knowing that the money she sent home helped her children and family. The thousands of miles between her and her family, she said, was a price worth paying to provide for them. Over the years, Ms. Rivera kept in touch with her sons via Skype a few times a week. As the boys grew older, new dangers emerged. José started to receive threats from gang members who wanted him to help traffic drugs. Ms. Rivera said a major reason she hesitated to ask for her sons to join her was her fear of the perilous journey they would have to take. But the idea of her sons remaining in El Salvador, tempted and threatened by gangs, became unthinkable. José and Juan left El Salvador early one morning in November 2014, on what ended up being a nearly   journey by car and by foot, guided by a smuggler. Each time they crossed another border  —   El Salvador to Guatemala, Guatemala to Mexico and Mexico to the United States  —   they traversed a river, some with frightening rapids. The scariest part of their journey was when they were robbed at knife point. That December, the Rivera brothers were apprehended by the United States border patrol officers in Texas and sent to a center run by the federal Office of Refugee Resettlement. There they came in contact with Catholic Charities Archdiocese of New York, one of the eight organizations supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. José and Juan were sent to New York, where they were reunited with their mother for the first time in more than a decade. Juan leapt from his chair at the sight of her. José, dubious and anxious, stayed seated, arms folded. Ms. Rivera looked different. She had lost a lot of weight. The last time they saw each other, he had to look up to make eye contact. Now they were the same height. “There’s a lot of change,” Ms. Rivera said, turning to look at José. “He is a man, a younger man, but a man. ” It was an adjustment for the family, not only for José and Juan, now 17 and 12, to acclimate to a new country, but also for the family to adjust to being around one another. Her sons grew up around their more lenient grandmother, while Ms. Rivera acknowledged she can be harder on her boys. “I’m strict with me, for myself, and I’m strict with them,” Ms. Rivera said. She works full time as a waitress in Brooklyn and also works part time cleaning apartments, which earns her a total of about $622 each week. Her rent is $1, 500 a month. The family lives in a   apartment in Brooklyn. Ms. Rivera sleeps in the small bedroom, while José and Juan initially shared a foldout couch. In October, Catholic Charities used $800 from the Neediest Cases Fund to buy each brother a twin bed. For the brothers, adjusting to schools has been a challenge, especially for José, who has struggled to learn English. “We knew the basics, like the colors, a little bit of the letters,” he said. “When I try to speak, I find difficulty, because it’s hard to find the words I want to say. ” And bullying is rampant, both brothers said. They are often teased by classmates about their immigration status. José said that some students had told him that if he did not help them with their homework, they would report him to immigration officials. “I’m here to make a better life, and make money and take care of my family,” he said. “And when they say that, I feel angry and sad. ” The brothers hold special immigrant juvenile status, intended for abused, neglected or abandoned juveniles. They are in the process of applying for permanent residency. Both plan to stay focused on their studies, as their mother has requested. Their lives are full of uncertainties, and fears have taken new forms. But at least they are together.