“Yuck! Yuck! Yuck!” the other children would shout, teasing Katherine Yuk all through elementary school about her Chinese last name. “When I was a child and a new immigrant in Canada, I longed for the day when I could get married and take someone else’s last name,” she wrote. Ms. Yuk was one of more than 16, 000 readers who responded when The New York Times asked women around the world why they had kept or changed their surnames when they married. By the time she had the chance, Ms. Yuk wrote, her thinking had come around. She decided to embrace and keep her name, despite the teasing. “I hadn’t only survived it, but it had defined me  —   as someone who was different yet proud of those differences, a survivor of childhood bullying, a   immigrant with a funny last name who had found her own skin and found her own opportunities and identity,” said Ms. Yuk, now 45 and living in Toronto. “I didn’t want to lose my identity. ” Women from a variety of nationalities, religions, sexual orientations and ages wrote to The Times about how their names were a core part of who they were. For many, the decision on whether to change their names carried significant weight, and it was shaped by the traditions, the norms and, in some cases, the laws of the societies in which they live. Some looked to their names as badges of cultural identity, others as symbolic links to their fathers that they were eager to preserve, or to sever. Here are some of the responses. They have been edited and condensed. Joy Perkins in New York City, via Facebook. She changed her name. Katherine   who grew up in Australia and now lives in Delhi, did not change her name. Zoë Foustokjian, 27, in Montreal.  Rebecca Vogels, 32, is German and based in Vienna. Lori Latus, 53, in Lexington, Ky. and Melbourne, Australia. She kept her name. Julie Benton, 62, lives in the United States and Australia and is in a   marriage. She took her partner’s surname. Peggy McGillicuddy, 45, in Toronto. She kept her name. Kristina Wallengren Steengaard, 46, a Swede living in South Africa, is married to a Danish man. Both use a combined surname. Morgan Fraser, 27, in Canada. She kept her name. Isolde Raftery, an Irish immigrant living in Seattle, via Facebook. She kept her name. Emily Mathisen, 32, in Vancouver, British Columbia. She kept her name. Natasha Hong, 29, a Han Chinese of Singaporean descent living in Singapore and married to a white British man. Yue Zhou, 32,   living in Singapore. Suzie Houghton, 32, in Melbourne. She has been married for a month and is in the process of changing her name. Kappy Flanders, 78, in Montreal. Jennifer Lahue, 48, an American living in Vienna. Angeli Humilde, 26, lives in Canada and is recently engaged. Her mother grew up in the Philippines. Joan Card Redemer, 64, who is from California and living in Antwerp, Belgium. She changed her name.