Make your movie list, check it twice and master your multiplex. Below, we’ve sifted through the many movie options this season to give you a few ideas on what to go see (and what to avoid) over the holidays. For Families With Young Kids This funny jukebox musical has elephants and porcupines belting out the latest pop songs in total “American Idol” style. It is likely to keep the young ones engaged. And that pig in the track suit singing Lady Gaga should make audiences of all ages giggle. In his New York Times review, Glenn Kenny called it “relentlessly amiable. ” For Families With Older Kids This one is not a tough sell. If they haven’t seen it yet, your kids are probably eager to check out the first   movie in this franchise. Since it opened last week, it has been pleasing longtime “Star Wars” fans and helping generate new ones (despite a highly unfavorable review from The Times’s A. O. Scott). It doesn’t shy away from intensity, yet delivers the action and thrills you’d expect to find in this galaxy far, far away. For an Evening With Friends You’ll probably not want to venture out with the family to this dark thriller, but if you’re looking for a movie that will appeal to you and your friends, this film  —   part pulpy thriller and part contemplative drama  —   will be of interest. Tom Ford directed, and Amy Adams and Jake Gyllenhaal star. In her review, Manohla Dargis wrote that the film contains “moments of   pleasure. ” For an Afternoon With Grandma This uplifting historical drama focuses on the female   mathematicians in the NASA space program who were integral in helping John Glenn become the first American to orbit the Earth. Funny, rousing and poignant, it’s kind of film that multiple generations will value. In his review, A. O. Scott wrote, “There is something to be said for a   tale with a clear moral and a satisfying emotional payoff. ” For a Reminder of How Much Family Matters Bring the tissues. This harrowing drama is based on the true story of a boy who gets separated from his family and very, very lost. His emotional search years later for his family will make you want to cling a little more tightly to yours. “If you have ever been a child, raised a child, lost a child or met a child  —   or a mother  —   this movie will wreck you,” A. O. Scott wrote in his review. For Couples It has Oscar buzz. It has critical love. (A. O. Scott said it “succeeds both as a fizzy fantasy and a   fable. ”) But at the end of the day, it’s just plain   entertainment: a  ’  ’ tale of romance that should make for a fine night out with the one you love. Movies to Watch at Your Own Risk Your heart may have been warmed in the past by Will Smith holiday films like “The Pursuit of Happyness. ” But based on what the critics are saying so far, this one is more like “Seven Pounds. ” With a Rotten Tomato certification currently in the teens, this drama about a man who can’t cope with a family tragedy had our reviewer Manohla Dargis calling it a “waste of talent and time. ” Jennifer Lawrence. Chris Pratt. What could go wrong? According to the critics who have been weighing in on this   space romance, a lot. If you’re drawn to the charisma of the leads, understandable, but be forewarned that much ink has been spilled on the problems with the film’s narrative. Our critic Stephen Holden writes that in the end, it “becomes a banal, formulaic pastiche of dozens of other   space operas. ”