Hillary Clinton declared herself the Democratic Party’s presidential nominee on Thursday and, looking to the fall election, said that her likely Republican rival, Donald J. Trump, was not qualified to be president. Asked by CNN’s Chris Cuomo whether Mr. Trump was qualified to hold the office they both seek, Mrs. Clinton declared emphatically, “No. ” She called the crash of an EgyptAir flight early Thursday an act of terrorism and went on to portray Mr. Trump as dangerously out of step with what a commander in chief would need to do to combat such attacks. She cited his proposal to temporarily bar Muslims from entering American borders, his comments about diminishing the United States’ involvement in NATO and his remarks that he would negotiate directly with the North Korean dictator, Kim   as evidence of how “unmoored” Mr. Trump is on foreign policy. This month, when MSNBC asked a similar question, Mrs. Clinton said that Mr. Trump had “given no indication that he understood the gravity of the responsibilities that go with being commander in chief. ” But she stopped short of emphatically declaring that he was unqualified. She did not mince words on Thursday, saying, “I have concluded he is not qualified to be president of the United States. ” In a statement on Thursday, Mr. Trump said that Mrs. Clinton was the candidate unqualified to president. “She has bad judgment,” Mr. Trump said in the statement, “and is unfit to serve as president at this delicate and difficult time in our country’s history. ” Mrs. Clinton’s statements come as she encounters a lingering threat for the Democratic nomination from Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, whose supporters have become increasingly antagonistic toward her candidacy. Despite recent primary wins by Mr. Sanders, his path to the party’s nomination appears mathematically impossible, a fact Mrs. Clinton sought to make abundantly clear. “I will be the nominee of our party, Chris,” she told Mr. Cuomo. “There is no way I won’t be. ” On Thursday afternoon, Michael Briggs, a spokesman for Mr. Sanders, said in a statement that his candidate’s recent victories in Indiana, West Virginia and Oregon showed that voters there “respectfully disagreed with Secretary Clinton. ” He added, “We expect voters in the remaining eight contests also will disagree,” and said that some polls showing Mr. Sanders faring better than Mrs. Clinton against Mr. Trump made it “clear that millions of Americans have growing doubts about the Clinton campaign. ” Throughout the interview, Mrs. Clinton appeared ready to put the primaries behind her and move on to Mr. Trump. Asked if she would consider naming Mr. Sanders her   nominee, in an effort to unify the party and bring in his liberal and young supporters, she demurred. “I think the thing that brings us together is Donald Trump,” she said. She declined to respond to Mr. Trump’s attacks on her husband, Bill Clinton, including an interview with Fox News on Wednesday night in which Mr. Trump brought up a   rape allegation against the former president. “I think people can judge his campaign for what it is,” Mrs. Clinton said. “I’m going to run my campaign. ” Asked if she had the urge to defend her family’s honor against the onslaught of attacks that will grow louder, Mrs. Clinton said: “No, not at all. I know that is exactly what he is fishing for, and I’m not going to be responding. ” The interview took place in Park Ridge, Ill. the Chicago suburb where Mrs. Clinton spent her childhood. Mr. Cuomo asked what advice her mother, Dorothy Rodham, would have given her in dealing with the likely battle that awaits her against an opponent unlike any she has confronted. “I think it would be the same advice that my mother always gave me,” Mrs. Clinton said. “Which is everybody gets knocked down and knocked around in life. The real test is whether you get up and keep going. ”