In an unexpected twist in an already tumultuous legal fight, lawyers for Sumner M. Redstone argued in court filings on Friday that the competency of the ailing    mogul did not matter in the dispute over his $40 billion media empire. Regardless of whether or not Mr. Redstone had the mental capacity to oust two longtime confidants from the trust that will control his companies after he dies or is declared incompetent, the outcome would have been the same, his lawyers said. According to the filing, at least four of the seven trustees have supported and validated Mr. Redstone’s decision two weeks ago to oust Philippe P. Dauman, the chairman and chief of Viacom, and George S. Abrams, a longtime Viacom director, from the trust and the board of National Amusements, the private theater chain company through which Mr. Redstone controls Viacom and CBS. “Plaintiffs miscalculated not only Sumner’s resolve, but also the commitment of their fellow trustees to do the right thing,” Mr. Redstone’s lawyers said in the document, filed in Norfolk Probate and Family Court in Massachusetts. The revelation that a majority of trustees have ratified Mr. Redstone’s decision could present a significant blow to Mr. Dauman and Mr. Abrams in the   corporate battle they are waging for control of Mr. Redstone’s vast corporate holdings. It also presents a major victory for Shari Redstone, Mr. Redstone’s once ostracized, recently reconciled daughter, who has opposed Mr. Dauman’s leadership of Viacom. Les Fagen, a lawyer for Mr. Dauman and Mr. Abrams, said in a statement that “many undisclosed facts that will emerge concerning the conduct of Shari and her representatives. ” Mr. Fagen added that Friday’s court filings revealed that some trustees “have not seen Sumner for as long as ‘many years. ’” The court filing depicts Mr. Dauman and Mr. Abrams as partaking in a monthslong scheme, starting in the beginning of 2016, to betray Mr. Redstone out of the fear that Mr. Dauman would be fired. The document asserted that Mr. Dauman and Mr. Abrams, along with another trustee, retained a Boston law firm in late January for advice on what recourse they had if Mr. Redstone ousted them from the trust. The advice from the law firm was that the three men could avoid or contest their dismissal if they could prove that Mr. Redstone was incompetent and that he was manipulated by Ms. Redstone. “Road map in hand, plaintiffs no longer felt accountable even to Sumner as Viacom’s controlling shareholder,” the document states. The dismissals of Mr. Dauman and Mr. Abrams from the trust and the National Amusements board were viewed by industry observers as a harbinger of the firing of the Viacom board and, ultimately, the removal of Mr. Dauman as chief executive. Mr. Dauman and Mr. Abrams filed suit in Massachusetts, where the trust was settled, seeking to immediately block the moves. The suit challenges Mr. Redstone’s mental capacity, depicting him as suffering “profound physical and mental illness” and being subject to the undue influence of Ms. Redstone. It asserts that Mr. Redstone cannot read, write, do arithmetic or speak coherently. For their part, lawyers for Mr. Redstone filed a separate petition requesting that a Los Angeles court validate his decision. On Tuesday morning, Judge George F. Phelan of the Norfolk County Probate and Family Court in Massachusetts is scheduled to oversee a hearing on the motion by Mr. Dauman and Mr. Abrams to expedite the proceedings in the case. In the court filings on Friday, lawyers for Mr. Redstone asked that the judge reject the request to expedite proceedings and said that they planned to move to dismiss the case. They cited the agreement by a majority of the trustees to ratify the decision to oust Mr. Dauman and Mr. Abrams from the trust. Mr. Redstone’s lawyers also argued that the case should be heard by a judge in Los Angeles, where Mr. Redstone lives and took the action to remove Mr. Dauman and Mr. Abrams from the trust. The question of Mr. Redstone’s mental capacity remains in dispute. Mr. Redstone’s lawyers argued that the trust outlined specific procedures to determine incapacity and that those had not been activated at the time when Mr. Dauman and Mr. Abrams were dismissed. They cited the results of two recent exams by a geriatric psychiatrist hired by Mr. Redstone that concluded he had “legal mental capacity” and was not under the influence of others. On Thursday, Mr. Fagen said that the exam had been conducted by a “paid medical consultant and does not answer the question of whether Sumner Redstone had sufficient capacity. ”