ORLANDO, Fla.  —   Corpses do not faze him but Joshua D. Stephany, Orlando’s chief medical examiner, still has the image of what he saw inside the Pulse nightclub on the morning of the slaughter seared into his head. Strobe lights were still flashing. The television was still on. Purses and cellphones were strewn about the floor. And there were bodies everywhere. “What you saw was drinks that were just served. You saw bills that were about to be paid. You saw   food,” said Dr. Stephany, 41, who was called into duty hours after Omar Mateen barged into the popular gay nightclub and opened fire.   people were killed in the attack. “Time just stopped. ” Although he had been filling in for about a year, Dr. Stephany was officially made Orange County’s chief medical examiner two days after the slaughter at Pulse. On his first real day on the job, his office completed 18 autopsies. He said he performed at least seven of the 49 autopsies. The exact number he is not certain of. He lost count. He and his four colleagues, aided by two state pathologists called in from elsewhere in Florida, have now conducted autopsies on all 49 victims as well as the assailant. Out of respect for those who were killed, Mr. Mateen’s corpse is being held in a different part of the morgue, in an area typically used for decomposing bodies. Determining the cause of death was routine in this case, as all of the victims had bullet wound after bullet wound. “So you kind of take a typical homicide scene, multiply it by 50, even that just won’t prepare you for what you see,” he said. “I don’t think you can find anybody more experienced than medical examiners to go to that type of events, but to see the sheer number of decedent is almost surreal. ” The pathologists put aside their emotions, he said, as they sought to identify everyone. The technicians photographed,   and fingerprinted the bodies to confirm their identities. They inspected tattoos. They washed blood off the victims’ faces so they could be compared to photographs from their driver’s licenses and Facebook profiles. The identity of one victim frustrated the team for dozens of hours, until Dr. Stephany realized that a wallet he had picked up off the ground at the club as evidence contained the person’s name. In autopsy after autopsy, the doctors documented every wound and plucked every bullet, noting where it entered and the direction it traveled. “It doesn’t appear anyone suffered,” he said. “Everyone went down where they were. I don’t think anyone had prolonged suffering. ” A New Hampshire native, Dr. Stephany has conducted several thousand autopsies in his life. He has seen his share of overdoses, suicides, hangings and car crashes. But he said he knows this case, his first as the chief, will be one he will not forget. “It hasn’t been able to sink in yet,” Dr. Stephany said. “I don’t think there’s any way it could not affect you immediately or eventually. ”