The annual custom of the White House Correspondents’ Association dinner suddenly seems uncomfortable if not untenable: Journalists mingling with Trump administration aides who loathe them, celebrities decrying Trump White House policies, and an entertainment headliner grappling with the tone and boldness of jokes about President Trump himself. But Samantha Bee is not waiting to see how this year’s soiree unfolds or if those involved decide to hold it at all. Instead, Ms. Bee, host of the topical TBS comedy show “Full Frontal With Samantha Bee,” and her colleagues are planning a   that will take place in Washington on April 29, the same night as the Correspondents’ Association dinner. This alternative gala, which is being called “Not the White House Correspondents’ Dinner” and was announced on Monday, will be at the Willard Hotel. Ms. Bee said that it was not an attempt to comment on or compete with that other,   banquet, but a night to include jokes about Mr. Trump that she and   comedians want to make. “We’re not trying to supersede it,” she said in a telephone interview. “We just want to be there in case something happens  —   or doesn’t happen  —   and ensure that we get to properly roast the president. ” Ms. Bee said that she and her “Full Frontal” producers got the idea for their event after Mr. Trump’s election in November. “We were talking out loud about whether we thought the White House Correspondents’ dinner would change during a Trump presidency, or if it would even exist,” she said. “And then we thought, Why don’t we just do one, just to do it in the way that we would want it done if we were hosting it?” The “Not the White House Correspondents’ Dinner” will probably be shown on TBS in some form Ms. Bee said that those details were still being worked out, as was a lineup of talent. “We have binders full of people, but we don’t have any specifics to offer yet,” she said. Ms. Bee said that proceeds from her event would go to the Committee to Protect Journalists. The   dinner held by the Correspondents’ Association, which advocates press accessibility at the White House and gives out journalism awards and scholarships, has come under scrutiny in recent years. Some news organizations and observers regard it as a   atmosphere for reporters to hobnob with the officials they are supposed to be covering objectively and adversarially. (The New York Times stopped sending journalists to the dinner in 2008.) The event has also been the scene of two notorious incidents. At the 2006 dinner, its featured performer, Stephen Colbert, delivered a scathing satirical takedown of President George W. Bush. Mr. Colbert’s performance, in the guise of the arrogant   political commentator he played on Comedy Central, appeared to offend Mr. Bush and several of his aides, though it was widely celebrated by television and internet viewers. (The next year, the Correspondents’ Association invited Rich Little.) In 2011, Mr. Trump, then a civilian and a guest at the dinner, sat   as he was mocked relentlessly by President Obama and Seth Meyers for having promoted the false theory that Mr. Obama was not born in the United States. Mr. Obama said of Mr. Trump at the time: “Now he can get to focusing on the issues that matter. Like, did we fake the moon landing? What really happened at Roswell? And where are Biggie and Tupac?” Mr. Trump lashed out the next morning, in an interview with The Times, saying Mr. Meyers had “no talent” and acknowledging his discomfort  —   “I am not looking to laugh along with my enemies”  —   while also speaking at length about possibly running for the presidency. Given the open hostility that Mr. Trump and his administration have displayed for the news media, some journalists have wondered if the Correspondents’ Association dinner is a tradition worth preserving. Would Mr. Trump even attend this year, and what entertainer could make jokes about him without getting underneath his   thin skin? Comedians have only started figuring out how to riff on Mr. Trump as president, and there is a wide gulf between what Trump supporters and detractors think is funny about him. The White House Correspondents’ Association “looks forward to hosting our annual dinner this year as we do every year to celebrate the First Amendment, reward some of the finest reporting of the past year and recognize promising young student journalists,” its president, Jeff Mason, said in a statement. The association has not announced its entertainer for the April dinner, and Ms. Bee said she had no expectation of being asked. “My assumption is that that invitation is not coming,” she said, “and I don’t blame them for that at all. ” Addressing the Correspondents’ Association, she said: “I honestly can’t imagine what they’re thinking, but I really wish them well. I think that’s going to be very challenging. Does 3 Doors Down do comedy? I don’t know, maybe they do. ”