Night 4 of the Republican National Convention was Donald J. Trump’s night: He was introduced after a speech by his daughter Ivanka. Mr. Trump’s speech  —   and the balloons that follow his acceptance of the Republican nomination  —   kicked off the final phase in his quest for the presidency. Some of the highlights of the night:  • A taste from our main story on Mr. Trump’s speech (and check out what we   in it): • Ivanka Trump offered a softer, less harsh portrait of her father in a speech introducing him. She said that as a daughter and an employee of the Trump Organization, she “witnessed his empathy and generosity. ” She said Mr. Trump is “  and gender neutral. He hires the best person for the job, period. ” And she pledged that Mr. Trump will fight for “equal pay for equal work,” noting that at Mr. Trump’s company, there are “more female than male executives” and that “when a woman becomes a mother, she is supported, not shut out. ” Her father, she promised, will be “your greatest, your truest and your most loyal champion. ” _____ • “I am proud to be gay. I am proud to be a Republican. ” Peter Thiel, the billionaire Silicon Valley venture capitalist and entrepreneur, took the Republican Party to task over what he called “fake culture wars. ” He recalled that when he was a kid, the great debate was defeating the Soviet Union, but “now we are told that the great debate is about who gets to use which bathroom. ” Focusing on these debates, he said, “distract us from our economic decline, and nobody in this race is being honest about it except Donald Trump. ” Fact Check: Among Mr. Thiel’s claims was that “our government is broken. Our nuclear bases still use floppy disks. ” That, in fact, is true, according to a report by the General Accounting Office this year. According to the report: “Department of Defense uses   floppy disks in a legacy system that coordinates the operational functions of the nation’s nuclear forces. ” _____ • Jerry Falwell Jr. the evangelical leader of the top Christian university, made both a   and populist case for Mr. Trump, calling him a “  billionaire” who he has known for over 20 years. His evangelical argument for Mr. Trump centered on a plank in the platform to repeal a tax law banning churches from political organizing, as well as a pledge to appoint “conservative,   justices” to the Supreme Court. And he included perhaps a thinly veiled message to Senator Ted Cruz, who spoke last night and declined to endorse Mr. Trump: “If you are a conservative, a decision not to vote or to vote for a third candidate is a de facto vote for Hillary Clinton. ” _____ • With the playful tone of a wedding toast, Tom Barrack, a billionaire businessman and longtime friend of Mr. Trump, used most of his speech to share stories and memories. He told the crowd that he had “nothing negative to say about Hillary” and “only amazing things to tell you about Donald. ” His personal anecdotes revealed a    unseen side of the Mr. Trump that few other speakers touched on during the convention. _____ • Joe Arpaio’s support for Mr. Trump might be boiled down to this: You had me at illegal immigrant. Mr. Arpaio is the Arizona sheriff who became famous for his aggressive,   tactics in that state. And Mr. Trump started his campaign more than a year ago by focusing on the danger that illegal immigrants pose to Americans. On Thursday, Mr. Arpaio said his experience at the border convinced him that “we have terrorists coming over our borders, infiltrating our communities and causing massive destruction and mayhem. ” He said Mr. Trump was the only candidate willing to confront that issue. _____ • Representative Marsha Blackburn of Tennessee struck a mostly optimistic note amid remarks that focused on problems. She proclaimed that electing Mr. Trump would return the country to greatness and spoke broadly about Mr. Trump’s leadership qualities and record as a businessman who “has seen challenges” and “learned his lessons. ” And with a turn of phrase, linked his real estate successes to the potential of a Trump presidency: “Not only can they change a skyline, they can change the world. ” _____ • Mary Fallin, the governor of Oklahoma,   the pattern of pessimism, but she said that Mr. Trump is the one to provide optimism  —   even if some Republicans might not agree with everything he says. “As Ronald Reagan said, ‘the person who agrees with you 80 percent of the time is a friend and ally,’ ” she said. • Reince Preibus, the chairman of the Republican National Committee, hammered Mrs. Clinton for a lack of personal and professional ethics. She “lied over and over and over and over” about her email server, he said. “Perhaps worst of all, Hillary Clinton has perfected the art of politics for personal gain. She reads ethics rules as carefully as Americans read their junk mail. ” He accused Mrs. Clinton of using her position as secretary of state to “grease the wheels for Democrat lobbyists, special interests and political insiders connected to the corrupt Clinton machine. ” With Mr. Trump, he said, “help is coming. ”