WASHINGTON  —   The F. B. I. on Tuesday handed over to Congress documents related to its investigation of Hillary Clinton’s private email server after House Republicans pushed the bureau to surrender material it had gathered before it concluded last month that she should not face criminal charges. The documents were believed to include notes from the F. B. I. ’s   interview with Mrs. Clinton in early July, the last step in a lengthy investigation into her email practices as secretary of state that continues to dog her run for president. “The F. B. I. has turned over a ‘number of documents’ related to their investigation of former Secretary Clinton’s use of a personal email server,” according to a statement from the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. “Committee staff is currently reviewing the information that is classified Secret. There are no further details at this time. ” Though he did not recommend criminal charges, the F. B. I. director, James B. Comey Jr. said in July that Mrs. Clinton’s exclusive use of a private email address and server was “extremely careless. ” He also appeared to contradict statements she had made, saying the F. B. I. had uncovered a small number of emails that were marked classified. House Republicans have asserted that the F. B. I. documents could demonstrate that Mrs. Clinton committed perjury when she testified last October that she did not send or receive emails that were marked classified at the time. The State Department expressed concern that the documents might contain sensitive diplomatic information, and had asked to review them before the F. B. I. handed them over. The department said it had reviewed emails that the F. B. I. planned to give to Congress, but not summaries of its interviews with Mrs. Clinton. “We are satisfied that the F. B. I. has made arrangements to ensure that the documents will be transmitted subject to appropriate handling controls,” said Mark Toner, a State Department spokesman. A congressional aide said the material was being held under tight security while staff members reviewed it. The F. B. I. said in a statement that it had decided to turn over the documents to several congressional oversight committees to fulfill its commitment to make the investigation of Mrs. Clinton’s email practices transparent. But it added, “The material contains classified and other sensitive information and is being provided with the expectation it will not be disseminated or disclosed without F. B. I. concurrence. ” House Democrats have voiced worries that details from the documents could be leaked selectively to damage Mrs. Clinton in the campaign. “This will neither serve the interests of justice nor aid Congress in its responsibilities and will merely set a precedent for the F. B. I. to turn over closed case files whenever one party in Congress does not like a prosecutorial decision,” Representative Adam B. Schiff, Democrat of California, said in a statement. The Clinton campaign expressed displeasure with the transfer of the material, saying that Republicans would   it to discredit Mrs. Clinton and that it would be used to raise questions about the F. B. I. ’s judgment. “We believe that if these materials are going to be shared outside the Justice Department,” said the campaign’s spokesman, Brian Fallon, “they should be released widely so that the public can see them for themselves, rather than allow Republicans to mischaracterize them through selective, partisan leaks. ” A congressional aide said she did not expect anything from the documents to be made public for at least a few days. The committee’s chairman, Representative Jason Chaffetz, Republican of Utah, is traveling outside the United States. Separately, Judicial Watch, a conservative watchdog group, said that the State Department had agreed to disclose “emails sent or received by former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton that were uncovered by the F. B. I. in its investigation of Clinton and her use of the clintonemail. com system. ” Judicial Watch has sued under the Freedom of Information Act for the release of Mrs. Clinton’s emails. She said she had turned over to the State Department all the   emails from her four years as secretary of state, but the F. B. I. in its examination of her server, uncovered several thousand   emails that had not been handed over.