As with so many elements of this presidential campaign, the way in which Hillary Clinton and Donald J. Trump have handled their medical histories feels strange, secretive and theatrical (Dr. Oz, anyone? ). But there’s a long and rich history of candidates concealing  —   even lying about  —   the details of their health. In the latest episode of The   we talk to John Dickerson, a history buff, columnist at Slate and moderator of CBS’s “Face the Nation,” who recalls the United States’ pivotal brush with a president’s   ailment: the heart attack of Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1955. Mr. Dickerson, the author of “Whistlestop,” a new book about the history of presidential campaigns, explains how the White House’s initial resistance to disclose the incident triggered something new in American public life: a deluge of deeply private medical information about the commander in chief. We also speak with the doctor who, more than anyone else, is responsible for our modern expectation that candidates give detailed disclosures about their health: Lawrence K. Altman, a reporter at The New York Times who was the first to interview candidates about their medical histories. Mr. Altman recalls his tough and sadly prescient question to Ronald Reagan when he was a candidate in 1980 about a potential condition that would later haunt him. We also hear from voters in Times Square about whether they even care about candidates’ health. Short answer: not particularly. One voter told us he’d be going with Mrs. Clinton over Mr. Trump. Was there anything about her health that might change that? “I’m pretty sure he’s crazy,” the man said, “and that’s more dangerous than her dying in office. ” From a desktop or laptop, you can listen by pressing play on the button above. Or if you’re on a mobile device, the instructions below will help you find and subscribe to the series. On your iPhone or iPad: 1. Open your podcast app. It’s a   app called “Podcasts” with a purple icon. (This link might help.) 2. Search for the series. Tap on the “search” magnifying glass icon at the bottom of the screen, type in “The  ” and select it from the list of results. 3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, tap on the “subscribe” button to have new episodes sent to your phone for free. You may want to adjust your notifications to be alerted when a new episode arrives. 4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before deciding to subscribe, tap on the episode title from the list on the series page. If you have an internet connection, you’ll be able to stream the episode. On your Android phone or tablet: 1. Open your podcast app. It’s a   app called “Play Music” with an    icon. (This link might help.) 2. Search for the series. Click on the magnifying glass icon at the top of the screen, search for the name of the series and select it from the list of results. You may have to scroll down to find the “Podcasts” search results. 3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, click on the word “subscribe” to have new episodes sent to your phone for free. 4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before deciding to subscribe, click on the episode title from the list on the series page. If you have an internet connection, you’ll be able to stream the episode.