On the morning they finished shooting the pilot for “Westworld,” the married showrunners Jonathan Nolan and Lisa Joy commandeered a golf cart and went for a drive around Sweetwater, the Old West town they built for the show on Gene Autry’s former ranch studio in Santa Clarita, Calif. “The sun filtered through everything, and it was this beautiful moment,” Ms. Joy recalled recently. “For once, there was nowhere to rush, the pages were shot. We rode through that town together, and we were done with this massive endeavor. ” In fact, they were just getting started. Still to come were nine more episodes of this audacious   western production delays that would cast doubt on the show’s future and, as its Sunday, Oct. 2, premiere date was finally announced, the pressure of reviving HBO’s drama slate as “Game of Thrones,” another   epic with lots of violence and naked people, enters its twilight. Based on the 1973 Michael Crichton film, “Westworld” is about a dark Disneyland where the wealthy can wallow in incredibly lifelike Old West fantasy, shooting or sleeping with whomever they choose. The objects of their depredations are humanoid robot “hosts” who believe themselves to be actual gunslingers, brothel madams and ranchers’ daughters. That is until flickers of memory and insight threaten to reveal that the hosts were actually built by   scientists, a programmer explains, to “gratify the desires of the people who pay to visit your world. ” Myriad awakenings, reckonings and complex existential conflicts ensue. The series is the result of a longtime fascination with the film by J. J. Abrams, a creator of “Lost,” the director of “Star Wars: The Force Awakens” and the executive producer who hired Mr. Nolan and Ms. Joy to reimagine the story. A show of imposing sweep, thorny philosophical quandaries and an impressive cast including Anthony Hopkins, Ed Harris, Thandie Newton, Jeffrey Wright and Evan Rachel Wood, it is also HBO’s most visually ambitious offering since “Game of Thrones,” a global hit that remains the network’s last successful drama, even though it debuted in 2011. HBO doesn’t expect “Game of Thrones”  ratings (the most recent season finale drew 8. 9 million viewers) but it hopes “Westworld” can end a   slide defined by   curiosities like “The Leftovers” and expensive failures like “Vinyl,” the 1970s music business show that was canceled in June after its first season. While     like this summer’s “The Night Of” have done well for HBO, “what we need is an ongoing drama series,” said Casey Bloys, the network’s president for programming. Up to now, however, “Westworld” has been cast as an ongoing drama of another kind, dogged by delays and the occasional   casting notice. HBO originally said “Westworld” would debut in 2015, and a production shutdown last November, in particular, raised speculation that the showrunners had bitten off more than they could chew. While this was at least temporarily true  —   the producers realized they needed to stop shooting to focus on finishing the scripts  —   the metanarrative of “Westworld” as a troubled production threatened to overtake the actual storytelling. (HBO never considered pulling the plug, Mr. Bloys said.) “Because there’s so much mystery surrounding the show and because it seems so ambitious, it’s probably easy for people to assume it’s just a disaster,” said Ms. Wood, who plays an increasingly skeptical host named Delores. “But I think they’ll be pleasantly surprised. ” Early reviews have been mostly raves, praising the transportive quality and sophisticated themes about human nature and consciousness. And the performances, especially from Ms. Wood, Mr. Hopkins as the possibly malevolent mastermind Dr. Robert Ford and Ms. Newton as the madam Maeve, are nuanced and layered. “The show has taken a premise that could be seen as sort of primitive and simply about revenge and explored it on an emotionally complex level,” Mr. Abrams said. He had been pondering a “Westworld” reboot off and on since discussing the concept more than 20 years ago with Crichton, who died in 2008. But Mr. Nolan, who goes by Jonah, and Ms. Joy weren’t interested in taking on big television projects in 2013, when Mr. Abrams proposed reimagining it as a cable drama. Mr. Nolan, who had worked on films like “Interstellar,” “The Dark Knight Rises” and “Memento” with his brother Christopher before creating the CBS series “Person of Interest,” hoped to direct feature films. Ms. Joy, who wrote for shows like “Burn Notice” and “Pushing Daisies,” was developing a movie version of “Battlestar Galactica. ” Ultimately, they were drawn in by the chance to explore issues surrounding artificial intelligence and “the idea that humans are getting ever better at immersing themselves in their narrative fictions,” Mr. Nolan said. While the movie “Westworld” was a campy predecessor to the “Terminator” movies as well as Crichton’s more successful “Jurassic Park”  —   with Yul Brynner’s   gunfighter in the inexorable predator role later filled by terminators and velociraptors  —   the series takes its cues from headier   like “Blade Runner” and “Ex Machina. ” It flips the main perspective of Crichton’s story, and thus viewers’ sympathies, from the human guests to the robot hosts. And it poses provocative questions about the depths to which humans will sink when there aren’t consequences. In “Westworld,” generally it’s the people, not the robots, who are the monsters an early scene finds an Old West bro shooting an android cowboy in the back of the head for sport and exclaiming, “Now that’s a [expletive] vacation!” In the most explicit inversion of the source material, Brynner’s mechanical outlaw is now a veteran Westworld tourist with a taste for cruelty and a mysterious agenda. He is played by Ed Harris in his first substantial series television role. “It was Jonah and Lisa’s commitment and passion for their idea that kind of sold me on it,” he said. “They’re using the future of artificial intelligence to explore the nature of what makes us who we are. ” Other actors were drawn by expansive roles  —   “I got be to a cowboy and a robot at the same time!“ Ms. Wood recalled with glee  —   that gave primacy to characters most westerns leave on the margins, like the madam or the frontier girl next door. “If this wasn’t an empowering role for women, it was going to be a major problem,” Ms. Newton said. “Because I’m nude for so much of the film. ” Ah yes, the nudity. As suggested by the trailers, it is abundant, and it became a flash point during the production when a “Westworld” casting notice informed   extras that they may be required “to perform    touching” or “pose on all fours while others who are fully nude ride on your back,” among other indignities. HBO disavowed the notice, saying it was never requested by the producers. (  the actors guild, protested at the time, but a spokeswoman confirmed that it received no complaints from members about the shoot.) In general, the nudity is more clinical than titillating, mostly relegated to the gloomy laboratories as well as the trailers. “The sex and violence is easy to market, but it’s not the stuff that’s very interesting,” Mr. Abrams said. Given the uproar over sexual violence on HBO shows like “Game of Thrones,” the most controversial scene in the pilot is likely to be an implied rape that happens offscreen. But those involved with “Westworld” defend it as a key, and   part of the narrative. “The cost of such actions is something these guys take incredibly seriously,” Ms. Newton said. Ms. Joy and Mr. Nolan met at the premiere for “Memento,” the 2001 indie thriller Christopher Nolan wrote and directed based on Jonah’s short story. Though they consulted on each other’s work for years, Mr. Nolan and Ms. Joy had never officially worked together before “Westworld,” the development of which happened to coincide with another collaboration: their first child. (They’re currently expecting their second.) They have sketched out several seasons’ worth of story, but HBO has committed only to the one. “Coming off of ‘Vinyl,’ I think the one thing we’re going to do is take our time in making a decision” about renewing “Westworld,” Mr. Bloys said. That means it will be some time before anyone knows whether the show can in fact be the network’s next flagship series, even as everyone involved swats away the inevitable “Game of Thrones” comparisons. But HBO executives do want enough viewers, positive reviews and cultural buzz for “Westworld” to justify a price tag that, while they won’t divulge it, can’t be cheap, considering the decorated cast and breathtaking scope on display. “Is it the next big HBO thing? I don’t think it benefits any show to work under those expectations,” Mr. Bloys said. “It’s getting into really interesting themes that are relevant today, so hopefully it catches on. ” Mr. Nolan added: “We have a dark, strange, hopefully compelling story we’re telling here. You never know what people are going to make of it until they do, but we’re incredibly excited to put it in front of an audience. ”