Perhaps the bleakest in a catalog loaded with bleak albums, Radiohead’s “Kid A” closes with “Motion Picture Soundtrack,” a song that obliquely suggests the end of a relationship but is, more broadly, about disillusionment and death. “It’s not like the movies,” singer Thom Yorke laments. “They fed us on little white lies. ” Radiohead has provided the musical accompaniment for Maeve since the second episode, when “No Surprises” scrolled through the player piano as she unsuccessfully solicited a guest. In this week’s episode, Maeve wakes up to an instrumental version “Fake Plastic Trees,” which continues as she walks to work, unfazed by the mundane spectacle of a bloody shootout on the streets behind her. When “Motion Picture Soundtrack” plays, it again serves as a kind of coda, as a technician gives her a guided tour through the Westworld sausage factory. Maeve witnesses the creation and processing of synthetic beings, having come to realize she is one of them the steady diet of “white lies,” as it were, is over. It’s the most haunting and affecting sequence the show has yet produced. The obvious reason the robots of “Westworld” draw more sympathy than the humans is their vulnerability, the fact that their daily lives require a passive acceptance of the abuse, terror, and tragedy that’s heaped upon them. But Maeve’s peek behind the curtain hints at a more fundamental cause: As the engineers, coders and technicians dismantle and reconstruct the hosts, the show constantly forces us to reflect on how we humans are composed, too. How many of our own actions are scripted? How much can we really improvise? And what purpose did our own creator have in mind for us? If we were put through the full diagnostic test Maeve experiences here, perhaps the results would be equally unsettling. The tour signals a tipping point for Maeve, the season and the series at large. The world as Maeve has understood it is gone  —   and, more painfully still, she learns that neither she nor it was ever authentic. She sees dead bodies getting hosed off before the techs throw them on the slab and reanimate them. She sees buffalo and deer getting their movements calibrated in glass pens. She sees the programmed interaction, like lesbian playacting and a    . She sees a designer literally sculpting facial details. And finally, she sees her life and memories edited into a slick advertisement for real people to “Live Without Limits. ” For Maeve, it’s simultaneously a death and a reawakening, the end of her old life (or lives, given the sloppy accumulation of past constructs) and the beginning of a new one. What happens to Maeve in Episode 6 is a variation of what happened in the previous episode to Dolores, who gunned down a pack of   outlaws and chose to pursue a destiny more assertive than her    loop. Both women are now   though Maeve has the extra advantage of being able to manipulate her “attribute matrix,” dialing down her sense of loyalty and her ability to feel pain while amping up her “bulk apperception,” which will make her smarter and more powerful than the humans who built her. Having played the victim for years in Sweetwater, Maeve has essentially turned herself into a monster, hellbent on revenge. Beyond Maeve’s request for alterations, we learn that someone else with high clearance has already been manipulating her attributes. In Michael Crichton’s original “Westworld,” the robot revolt was as preordained as the dinosaur rampage in his “Jurassic Park,” an example of chaos theory in action. The root causes here are a little more ambiguous, a cocktail of design flaws, human weakness and the development of   and free will. But “The Adversary” reveals that someone  —   most likely Arnold, our ghost in the machine  —   has been tweaking with the earlier android models in the park, which Arnold had a hand in creating. Whether Arnold is alive or not is an open question, but he appears to have tweaked his creations from within  —   and maybe with Theresa’s help. Questions about Ford are floating around, too, particularly about his secret plans to expand Westworld. But this episode finds him in a rare state of powerlessness. When Bernard discovers a group of unregistered “anomalies” residing in the unused Sector 17, his investigation leads him to a family scene with a stern father, a mother, two young sons and a dog. Ford modeled the family from his own past and has been keeping these older machines around as an act of nostalgia, so he can interact with “ghosts” from his childhood. It’s yet another example of the creators imprinting the hosts with their flaws, but a poignant one for a man like Ford, who’s defined more by his aloofness than by his soul. “If you could see your son again, Bernard,” he asks, “wouldn’t you want to?” When you have the power to raise the dead, as Ford does, it’s hard to keep yourself from doing it. But then, there are consequences. Ford finds the robot dog dead. He asks the boy about it. The boy lies about killing it. Prime directives have been violated here and elsewhere, as the protections put in place to keep the hosts from lying to humans or from killing them have eroded. The final lyric of “Motion Picture Soundtrack is “I will see you in the next life. ” Hosts like Maeve and Dolores have died and been reborn, but the form that next life will take  —   and the amount of control they will exert over it  —   is a mystery. Paranoid Androids • A note on sex and nudity in “Westworld”: Last week’s episode got a lot of media attention for the big orgy   in Pariah, but I wound up addressing it lightly, because William and Dolores’s lack of interest in participating seemed much more notable than the event itself. But I feel like “Westworld” has been tossed into the same   basket as HBO shows like “Game of Thrones,” “True Detective,” and “Rome,” which have brought the network some criticism for appealing heavily to libidinous men. The difference is that “Westworld” has been, from the very first image of the show, studiously   despite a premise whose human subjects indulge a lust for   sex and violence. If you were bored by the orgy, that’s not a mistake on the part of the filmmakers. • Asked by Elsie if they’re in a    or   situation, Bernard replies: “We’re engineers. It means the glass has been engineered to the wrong specifications. ” That joke will not curb the popular fan theory that Bernard is a robot. • The Man in Black and Teddy continue their hunt for Wyatt and the center of the maze, leading to the disturbing news that Teddy might not be the White Hat he appears to be. Teddy’s decision to slaughter the soldiers with a Gatling gun startles even the Man in Black, who thinks it’s more prudent to flee than to fight. “They’ll just follow us,” he says coldly. • Teddy also supplies more information about the “old native myth” of the maze, with the ominous news that the man responsible “vanquished all his oppressors in a tireless fury. ” Finding the center of the maze would appear to be an   mission.