As election returns poured in and panic became palpable for Democrats in New York, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo and Mayor Bill de Blasio held fast. Hillary Clinton would be president, they told increasingly uneasy crowds on Tuesday night at what would have been her victory party in Midtown Manhattan. But by Wednesday morning, Mr. Cuomo and Mr. de Blasio, both Democrats, were coming to grips with their new reality: Donald J. Trump, the   Republican nominee soundly rejected by New York City voters, had been elected president, and his triumph would likely have profound effects on their administrations. For Mr. de Blasio, the election was a stunning repudiation of his most cherished notions about a national shift to   policies. For Mr. Cuomo, the failure of Democrats to win even a slim majority in the New York State Senate  —   as Republicans outside the city rode Mr. Trump’s coattails to victory  —   portended years of difficulty in Albany. In separate comments on Wednesday, they each stressed the common ground they could find with Mr. Trump as New Yorkers. “Today is an emotional day for me,” Mr. Cuomo said, speaking by phone on NY1. He said he called Mr. Trump to congratulate him and “talked about issues for New York,” such as building and infrastructure. Mr. Cuomo said that Mr. Trump’s identity as a New Yorker would be “a bonus. ” Mr. de Blasio, speaking from a podium in Blue Room of City Hall shortly before, offered a similar message. In tones that were by turns quavering, conciliatory and subtly defiant, he spoke of the election as if it were a challenge to overcome, even as he vowed to work with a future Trump administration. “I take solace in the fact that the   is a     New Yorker, and I hope and trust he will remember the lessons of a life lived in New York City,” Mr. de Blasio said, invoking infrastructure projects as a possible area of collaboration. It was a common refrain among local officials seeking to guess at the   effect of Mr. Trump’s election on New York. Representative Hakeem Jeffries, a Democrat from Brooklyn, who is often spoken of as a potential challenger to Mr. de Blasio for   in 2017, said that because of Mr. Trump’s ties to New York a Trump presidency “may surprisingly yield less hostility than we’ve seen from other Republican administrations,” especially on transportation and public safety. Councilman Joseph C. Borelli, a Staten Island Republican and Trump supporter who was helping to serve as a liaison between Mr. de Blasio and Mr. Trump on Wednesday, said the   “looks at cities sort of the way a developer would” and would find common ground with the mayor. Mr. de Blasio planned to offer personal congratulations to Mr. Trump by phone, but as of late Wednesday had yet to do so. But gone for the moment was any sense of a liberal wave cresting across the country. In its place was the dawning realization that for the next four years, both Democratic leaders and their allies were likely to find themselves playing defense against the rising Republican tide in Washington and a sustained Republican wall in Albany. Though absentee ballots in two State Senate races on Long Island were still being counted, Republicans appeared poised to keep 31 seats in the   chamber. With seven Democrats making up an independent breakaway group and another who sits with the Republicans, the control of the body appeared unlikely to shift from Republican control, despite Mr. Cuomo’s endorsements in key races. But Mr. Cuomo seemed resolved to begin  : He indicated on Wednesday that he intended to take a pragmatic approach to the new powers in Washington. Brushing off a question about whether he was concerned about the future Trump administration, he said on NY1 that he had “a very good conversation” with Mr. Trump by phone. Tuesday’s results also created a complicated calculus for Mr. Cuomo, who has long been close to the Clintons, and who campaigned on Mrs. Clinton’s behalf this year. If Mr. Trump pursues   policies in the White House, Mr. Cuomo could find himself one of a handful of liberal bulwarks against Washington. That would cheer some on the left. “The problem is, a   State Senate would carry Trump’s agenda,” said Bill Lipton, the political director of the Working Families Party. “The governor didn’t do enough to support Senate Democrats, but he can still press them to unite into a majority conference. ” For Mr. Cuomo, a more distant prospect is also looming: With his biggest obstacle to the White House, Mrs. Clinton, cleared from the field, Mr. Cuomo may emerge as a presidential contender in 2020. As a centrist Democrat facing a hotheaded electorate, however, his prospects are far from clear. For Mr. de Blasio, Tuesday’s results did not suggest any new difficulty in his looming   fight. Democrats in the city overwhelmingly voted for Mrs. Clinton, and potential primary opponents may be wary of challenging a sitting Democratic mayor when there are bigger adversaries in Washington. “I don’t think this dramatically changes anything in the mayoral race,” said Bruce N. Gyory, a Democratic political consultant. The biggest challenge coming out of this election in relation to the mayor is not the politics, said Mr. Gyory, but the double blow of Mr. Trump  —   who this year called Mr. de Blasio the “worst mayor” in city history  —   and Republican opposition in Albany. “They think that running against de Blasio is what helped them win the majority, so they’re liable to keep kicking him,” he said of the State Senate. But much of his agenda  —   including mayoral control of public schools, restoring tax breaks to spur affordable housing development, police transparency and voting reforms  —   are likely to face stiff resistance in the newly emboldened State Senate. And Mr. de Blasio may find he needs to “temper his progressive identity, and go more toward the pragmatic on what he has to do for the city” when dealing with Washington, said George Arzt, a Democratic strategist. Pragmatism, however, has its limits it remains to be seen if the mayor and the governor use Mr. Trump’s victory as impetus to   their acrimonious relationship. Gerald Benjamin, a political scientist at the State University of New York at New Paltz, said the shared set of antagonists “could drive the mayor and the governor together,” though no signs of a thaw were immediately apparent. “Anything is possible in politics,” said Ken Sunshine, a veteran Democratic activist and public relations executive who counts both men as friends. “Look what just happened in the last 24 hours. ”