Jazmyn Benjamin walked onto the hardwood floor at Madison Square Garden to a symphony of squeaking soles. She made her way through a maze of tall men in tailored sweatsuits rehearsing beneath a basket, to a spot that signified a turning point in her life. “I was standing right here back in 2009 when I interviewed Estelle,” she said, referring to the British singer and songwriter, shortly before the start of a New York Knicks basketball game last week. “I was so nervous that day because she was such a big celebrity, and I was just a    kid in the program. ” Ms. Benjamin  —   now a    senior at Brooklyn College majoring in film production who hopes, she said, “to become the next influential film director”  —   was referring to her days as a student in the MSG Classroom program, which teaches children about jobs in television, including announcing, producing, directing and creating graphics. In 2009, Ms. Benjamin was living with her mother and two younger siblings in a homeless shelter. Things began to brighten when she was one of 10 children from   neighborhoods selected to participate in the Hope Leadership Academy. The academy is run by the Children’s Aid Society, one of the eight agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. The Children’s Aid Society also provided $300 to Ms. Benjamin to buy clothes to wear during interview assignments and college visits. The academy worked with the Garden of Dreams Foundation, a nonprofit that helps children facing obstacles, to form the MSG Classroom program, which allows students to use Madison Square Garden as a laboratory of sorts. Program members are free to interview MSG employees and officials players with the Knicks, the New York Rangers and the New York Liberty and celebrity guests booked by MSG Entertainment. “That experience is what motivated me to want to become the next Martin Scorsese, the next Quentin Tarantino, the next Spike Lee,” Ms. Benjamin said. “There aren’t nearly as many female directors out there, so I would love to break through and contribute my own artistic vision to the industry. And if that means directing a drama or a horror flick or a cheesy romantic comedy, it really doesn’t matter. I just want the opportunity to put my own creative stamp on something. ” Having long recognized Ms. Benjamin’s desire to become a director, program officials gave her the chance to meet Mr. Lee, an avid Knicks fan. His directorial skills, Ms. Benjamin said, “changed the film game in a lot of ways. ” The meeting took place during halftime at the Knicks game against the Oklahoma City Thunder last Monday, when Ms. Benjamin was escorted to a section of courtside seats where she found Mr. Lee chatting with the comedian Chris Rock. Mr. Lee immediately invited Ms. Benjamin over, and wasted no time offering her valuable advice. “The easiest way to break into this business is to be a   with a hyphen,” he said. “How are your writing skills? Do you keep a journal? Do you write down your story ideas every single day? Just keep writing. ” Mr. Lee became animated when Ms. Benjamin said to him, “When you came along, you did a lot of things that were new at the time, and now it sometimes feels as if everything has already been done. ” “That’s not true,” he said. “There’s a whole new world of cinema yet to be discovered, and we need more female directors like yourself out there trying to find it. So keep believing in yourself and do not let anyone discourage you from telling a story you want to tell. That’s just noise that you don’t want to hear. ” Mr. Lee offered one more directorial tip. “Always remember that a good director needs to be surrounded by very good actors, because the best actors might bring something extra or new to a role that you never expected,” he said. “You’ll find that out one day when you’re directing Denzel. ” When their conversation ended, Mr. Lee invited Ms. Benjamin to spend a day on the set of his coming Netflix show, “She’s Gotta Have It,” named for Mr. Lee’s first movie, released in 1986. The series is being filmed in Brooklyn. “Oh my goodness,” Ms. Benjamin said, her smile widening. “That would be amazing. ” Andrea Greenberg, president and chief executive of the television company MSG Networks, which runs the program, and a board member of the Garden of Dreams Foundation, said that Ms. Benjamin was “just one example of the   impact and effect the foundation has on our kids, which is something we pride ourselves on  —   and we are very proud of Jazmyn. ” So is Ms. Benjamin’s mother, Monica, who watched as Mr. Lee held court with her daughter. “What an amazing night,” said the elder Ms. Benjamin, who now lives with her three children in an apartment of their own in West Harlem. “Jazmyn is a very artistic person who has impressed me with a few film projects she has directed at school,” she said. “She’s always looking for that different camera angle, always trying new and creative things, and in that regard, she’s a lot like Spike. ”