For two brief months, it looked as if there was a possibility of a more than $20 billion takeover that would combine the makers of Oreos and Hershey Kisses. But chocolate lovers’ hopes were dashed on Monday, when the deal discussions ended. Mondelez International, the owner of snack brands like Oreo and Nabisco, said on Monday that it was no longer seeking to acquire the Hershey Company. Hershey rebuffed a $23 billion offer from Mondelez in June, but on Monday it became apparent that they had restarted talks more recently. “Following additional discussions, and taking into account recent shareholder developments at Hershey, we determined that there is no actionable path forward toward an agreement,” Irene B. Rosenfeld, the chairwoman and chief executive of Mondelez, said in a statement. “While we are disappointed in this outcome, we remain disciplined in our approach to creating value, including through acquisitions, and confident that our advantaged platform positions us well for   performance over the long term. ” Shares of Hershey tumbled almost 12 percent in   trading, while those of Mondelez gained about 3 percent. Mondelez’s offer in June consisted of $107 in cash and stock for every Hershey share  —   a 10 percent premium at the time. Over the last few weeks, Mondelez floated an offer of about $115 a share, according to a person with knowledge of the talks. Hershey indicated that the figure had to be at least $125 to continue negotiations, said the person, who was not authorized to discuss the talks publicly. That gap in pricing, as well as uncertainty surrounding the status of Hershey’s largest shareholder, were the primary reasons the bid was abandoned. A representative from Hershey confirmed that there were additional communications with Mondelez and that Mondelez was no longer pursuing a deal. She declined to comment further. The Hershey Trust Company, which wields 81 percent of the voting power of Hershey shares, has been a thorn in many of the company’s   efforts in years past. That was true when Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company wanted to buy Hershey in 2002, and again when Hershey wanted to buy Cadbury eight years later. The charitable trust votes Hershey shares on behalf of the Milton Hershey School for underprivileged children, which was started in 1909 and named for the company’s founder. More recently, the trust has come under fire over corporate governance mishaps. In July, the trust reached a settlement with the Pennsylvania attorney general, which restricted the amount of time directors could remain on the board as well as their compensation. The trust’s board, which has already experienced tremendous turnover, will be reshaped as the agreement requires three trustees to step down by the end of the year. Two others will remain until the end of 2017. Mondelez had offered other concessions to make a deal work, including keeping jobs and moving the combined entity’s operations to Hershey, Pa. Mondelez also planned to keep the Hershey name. Mondelez, which was spun out of Kraft Foods in 2012, has had to contend with the wishes of its own shareholders. Two of the biggest are prominent hedge funds: Trian Fund Management, led by Nelson Peltz, and Pershing Square Capital Management, led by William A. Ackman. Mr. Peltz, who took a seat on Mondelez’s board in 2014, had been pushing for a merger between PepsiCo and Mondelez, and then a spinoff of its snack operations with Mondelez’s. He ultimately dropped this plan and recently sold  his stake in Pepsi.