SANTA CLARA, Calif.  —   A postgame professional football locker room is a primal cave. Massive and bruised men dress and move slowly, their bodies lost to ache. I noticed a curiously ebullient man, San Francisco 49ers linebacker Eli Harold, and wandered over to hear what he had to say. His team had just recorded a dominating   victory on Monday night over the Los Angeles Rams in a dull, prolonged nap of a game. But he talked instead of listening last week to ESPN as Trent Dilfer, a yakker and retired quarterback, opined that Colin Kaepernick, the 49ers’ backup quarterback, should remain quiet and stop taking a knee during the national anthem as his way of protesting racial injustice and police brutality. Such actions, Dilfer said, threatened to rip the 49ers apart. Harold shook his head in disbelief. Earlier, during the anthem, he and another teammate, Antoine Bethea, had raised clenched fists in support of Kaepernick. “Dilfer’s comments took me over the edge,” Harold said. “First of all, how do you know?” He added, “If a guy wants to stand up and believe in something, you shouldn’t shoot him down and talk down on him and say he put himself above the team when that wasn’t the issue. ” I had landed in the Bay Area hours before this game, curious to hear what 49ers fans made of Kaepernick, a   son whose skills may be eroding but whose political voice is finding flower. Their answers offered a welter of anger and joy, and ambivalence brimming over. But it was most intriguing to stand in that locker room and listen as young men, most often celebrated for their ability to conduct feats of savage excellence, searched for the words to express their nascent political consciousness. Last year, we in New York had a chance to listen and watch as Carmelo Anthony, a basketball star in the middle age of his career, embraced the struggles of Baltimore, his wounded hometown, and the battle for gun control. Here in Santa Clara, Kaepernick has undergone a similar metamorphosis, speaking and donating hundreds of thousands of dollars to charity. He came out of the shower Monday night and slipped a shirt over his lithe and tattooed torso. He stood in the locker room, his hair in neat cornrows, as reporters surrounded him, a bristling thorn bush of microphones and cameras and recorders. Calmly, he answered question after question. Are you proud of your role in stirring players around the N. F. L.  —   several knelt or raised fists Sunday during the various anthems  —   to take a role in protesting police brutality? He shook his head. He is a new emigrant to this land of political activism, and he refuses to take on airs. “No, no,” he said. “This movement wasn’t for me. As I’ve researched these things, as I’ve seen more and more, it’s not right. ” He spoke of social media and its immediacy, and how it put so many deaths of black people at the hands of the police so insistently in his face. “You see things instantly, day after day, and it’s hard,” he told us. “For me, I couldn’t see another hashtag Sandra Bland, hashtag Tamir Rice, hashtag Walter Scott. ” His eyes narrowed. “At what point do we take a stand?” Kaepernick’s question tugs at his team’s fans no less than its players. Their reaction to Kaepernick broke along often uncomprehending lines of race. White fans spoke, often with genuine empathy, of Kaepernick’s right to speak. But few approved of his actions. They spoke of cops who are friends, or relatives in the military, or they said they sympathized with the same. Cody and Shiloh Oden, two bearded,   brothers, walked toward the stadium wearing red jerseys emblazoned with the names of former 49ers: Frank Gore and Jerry Rice. They came from Nevada, where Kaepernick had a celebrated college career. “It’s tough, we loved him,” Cody said. “I really appreciate that he’s put up his own money, maybe a million dollars, for his cause. But the anthem, it’s not the right place to use his voice. ” Several white fans asked if I realized Kaepernick, who is biracial, was raised by white parents who adopted him. When I asked why that was significant, our conversations trailed away. Their assumption seemed to be that if he was raised by whites, he must know that they meant well. I put the question of Kaepernick to two black men. They sounded a touch uneasy with Kaepernick’s activism they had relatives and friends in the military. But they harbored no doubt as to his right, and even to the necessity, of speaking up. “People say he’s disrespecting the soldiers,” Dominic Sims said. “But by speaking up, he’s doing what those soldiers fought to protect. ” Sitting, or kneeling, as the case may be, during the national anthem is a   means of protest. Long ago, as a high school student during the last years of the Vietnam War, I sometimes remained seated during the anthem at Shea Stadium, and unhappy fans sometimes gave me a   shower. Donald J. Trump, the Republican presidential nominee, was born to fabulous comfort as a young prince he oversaw his father’s real estate empire, which was reliably accused of discriminating against black potential tenants. White racist nationalists are among those who have flocked to his campaign banner, and Trump’s campaign has retweeted some of their messages and symbols. Kaepernick has not hesitated to take on Trump, recently calling him “openly racist. ” (He has also criticized Hillary Clinton, the Democratic candidate, referring to comments she made in the 1990s for which she has since apologized. “You have Hillary,” he said, “who has called black kids, or black teens, ‘superpredators. ’”) Trump replied by administering his own rhetorical   of Kaepernick, saying he found something “very sad” about Kaepernick’s protest. “I think it’s a terrible thing,” Trump said on a Seattle radio station. “And you know, maybe he should find a country that works better for him. Let him try. ” This is the state of our land in 2016. Maybe the final words on action and silence should be left to Kaepernick. Reporters asked him what he made of the former quarterback Dilfer’s insistence that as a backup quarterback he should remain in the shadows. Kaepernick, who kept a courtly aspect during the interview, flared for the first time. “That’s one of the most ridiculous comments I’ve heard,” he said. “To me, you’re telling me that my position and being quiet is more important than people’s lives. I would ask him to have conversations with the families of people who have been murdered and see if he still feels that way. ” That was the sound of a young man who has found his voice.