(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the  .) Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1. The White House transition to a Trump administration opened with an extraordinarily cordial meeting between President Obama and   Donald J. Trump, once bitter political opponents and stylistic opposites. “We discussed a lot of different situations, some wonderful and some difficulties,” Mr. Trump said. “I very much look forward to dealing with the president in the future, including counsel. ” Mr. Trump also met with Republican leaders on Capitol Hill. Here is our live briefing on the transition. ____ 2. Protests around the country against Mr. Trump’s election focused partly on fears that   and   extremists could be emboldened. Officials at several universities were investigating reports of bias incidents. Talk of secession in California proliferated as #CalExit, taking off from Britain’s #Brexit campaign. Panic spread through some of the country’s gay and transgender community over the possible loss of   political gains. ____ 3. The backers of Mr. Trump’s unorthodox,   campaign are now among the candidates for the nation’s top posts. Steven Bannon, the Breitbart News executive who became Mr. Trump’s campaign chief, may be in competition with Reince Priebus, above, the chairman of the Republican National Committee, to become the White House chief of staff. The former New York mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani appears to be a strong contender for attorney general. And Peter Thiel, the tech billionaire who was a lonely Trump supporter in Silicon Valley, is likely to play an informal but influential role. ____ 4. Mr. Trump promised his supporters a number of sweeping changes, but there are a number of legal, practical and political limitations that will constrain his efforts. We examined what things he could accomplish with executive authority alone, and what will be harder to do. For instance, his vow to gut the Environmental Protection Agency may be easier said than done, according to legal experts. ____ 5. If you’ve been watching the new Netflix series “The Crown,” the episode about the 1952 smog crisis may have seemed timely, given that Delhi was in the news for the same thing this week. London’s pollution problems began much earlier, including a weeklong yellow fog in 1873 that killed hundreds of people. But clean air legislation wasn’t passed until 1956  —   83 years later. The 1952 crisis, above, shifted public opinion in Britain, opening the way for legislation, and some think the recent smog in Delhi may have a similar effect in India. ____ 6. The grim case against a South Carolina man that began when investigators rescued a woman who was “chained up like a dog” inside a storage container continues to build. Officials identified two bodies found on his property as a those of a couple who disappeared last year. Todd Kohlepp, a registered sex offender, led police to their bodies and has been linked to the murder of five other people, including the boyfriend of the rescued woman. ____ 7. An exhibition of 60 handwritten copies of the Qur’an has opened in Washington. It’s the first major display of its kind in the U. S. and features copies of Islam’s holy text that date from the seventh to 17th centuries. Some are as small as smartphones. Others are the size of carpets. Our art critic called the display a reminder of how much we don’t know “about a religion and culture lived by, and treasured by, a quarter of the world’s population. ” ____ 8. With Tuesday’s election, a total of 28 states and the District of Columbia now allow some sort of marijuana use. On its face, it would seem like a great opportunity for small businesses to expand nationally. But the federal ban on the drug means that products cannot cross state lines, and the rules are different from one state to another. Very few companies are operating in multiple states, but one, Dixie Brands, is trying. Here’s a look at the hurdles they’re facing. ____ 9. The Rolling Stones say that their new album, due out on Dec. 2, was a happy accident of sorts. The band, in a studio last December, turned to some old blues songs to “get the room warmed up. ” A year later, the album set for release is a collection of about a dozen such songs, most of them originally recorded by blues titans like Howlin’ Wolf. Starting this Saturday, you can peruse the band’s vast fashion legacy at a show opening in New York. It’s billed as the largest collection of the Stones’ stage outfits, musical instruments and memorabilia ever assembled. ____ 10. Finally, rats are ticklish. That’s what some accomplished researchers have determined. The rats really seemed to like it. They sought out the researchers’ hands, made joyful leaps and emitted some ultrasonic calls considered to be their equivalent of laughter. The purpose was actually quite serious: to learn why we evolved to be ticklish. It may be a “trick of the brain to make animals or humans play or interact in a fun way,” said one researcher. ____ Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p. m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a. m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a. m. Sundays. Want to look back? Here’s last night’s briefing. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes. com.