In this new weekly feature, we will surface some of the more thoughtful and provocative concerns that come into our office. The public editor’s column can only address so much and, though we’ll reply to many of your comments, we unfortunately aren’t unable to reply personally to everything that lands in our inbox. By giving a weekly glimpse into our mailbag, we hope to give exposure to the fluctuating concerns of The Times’s audience  —   and in doing so, help facilitate a better conversation between the Gray Lady and her readers. This week, as you probably would guess, our inbox is inundated with readers reacting to one of the more astonishing presidential election surprises in modern history. As the returns were coming in Tuesday night, readers became increasingly concerned over how The Times could have so incorrectly forecasted the outcome. The public editor’s column addressed the issue on Wednesday, and the letters continue to stream in. Some complained of The Times’s perceived liberal bias and think its New York newsroom is out of touch with much of America. Here are some of the letters: Comments on Wednesday’s public editor column generally echoed the sentiment. Pamela Colloff, executive editor of Texas Monthly had this to say, on Twitter: The Times’s national editor, Marc Lacey, pointed out that The Times has national correspondents who live across the country. And earlier Friday, The Times’s publisher, Arthur Sulzberger Jr. sent a note to the newsroom on the topic of covering the Trump White House. The Times will “approach the incoming Trump administration without bias,” he wrote. “We will cover his policies and his agenda fairly. We will bring expert analysis and thoughtful commentary to the changes we see in government, and to their ramifications on the ground. ” He added: “We will look within and beyond Washington to explore the roots of the anger that has roiled red and blue America. If many Americans no longer seem to understand each other, let’s make it our job to interpret and explain. ” Some readers blamed the Democrats for not stepping up. The following reader email came in before the votes were tallied, but we thought it was worth noting. It’s about political coverage on the editorial pages: The public editor’s take: Sexism, subtle and otherwise, is a recurring theme that, I can assure you, has my attention. I encourage any readers to write with concerns, or anything specific they notice on the topic. Another reader took issue with a headline on a piece that predicted how Trump would end up pulling off his shock win: “Donald Trump’s Big Bet on Less Educated Whites. ” The election wasn’t the only subject on readers’ minds this week. A Times investigation into genetically modified foods sparked controversy, with much of the dissent landing in our inbox. The investigation’s claim: “Genetic modification in the United States and Canada has not accelerated increases in crop yields or led to an overall reduction in the use of chemical pesticides. ” Here are a couple of the reader responses: A commentator on Twitter shared Mr. Wanzek’s concern. We shared these concerns with The Times’s business editor, Dean Murphy. Here’s his reply. On The Times carrying out such studies: On the complaint that The Times views farmers as less intelligent: The public editor’s take: Over all, I found the piece to be a thorough, educational read on a complex subject. But I thought readers had some interesting feedback. First, it’s true that big news organizations like The Times often produce their own studies and independent analysis. In this case, given how many questions that were raised about the methodology, it’s clear that the piece would have benefited from more explanation of how the data was assembled and used. On the issue of the story’s tone toward farmers, I didn’t see anything that struck me as intentionally talking down to farmers. But then, I’m not a farmer, and I would have enjoyed hearing more from those who are. Another story this week that drew pointed reader replies was headlined, in print and on the home page: “Locker Room Talk Becomes the Talk of Harvard. ” The public editor’s column addressed the issue, which prompted readers who agreed with the headline choice to come to its defense. And finally, one Trump rally attendee wrote to apologize for how he treated the media. See you next week.  —   Updated, 2:30 pm, Tuesday, November 15.