People magazine has named Dwayne Johnson, a. k. a. The Rock, its “Sexiest Man Alive” for 2016, ushering him into an elite group of physically appealing men that over the years has included George Clooney, Matt Damon and David Beckham. The award is, of course, a naked public relations enterprise, bestowed upon a celebrity  —   often an actor  —   who is in the throes of promoting a new project. In Mr. Johnson’s case, that would be “Moana,” an animated Disney film, which will open in wide release on Nov. 23. He will also   in the eighth film of the “Fast and the Furious” franchise next year as well as in a remake of “Jumanji,” and he has been chronicling daily the filming process of that film on his Instagram account, which has nearly 70 million followers. Mr. Johnson told the magazine: “I’m not quite too sure where we go from here. I’ve done it all this is it. ” The magazine has been criticized for nearly always choosing a white man for the cover of this issue. But in Mr. Johnson, the magazine chose its first actor of Samoan heritage. (In interviews, Mr. Johnson has described himself as half black and half Samoan.) Denzel Washington was the first black actor to hold the title. Mr. Johnson, who is 44 and the father of two girls  —   Simone, 15, and Jasmine, 11 months  —   became famous in the late 1990s and early 2000s as a performer with World Wrestling Entertainment. He turned toward Hollywood and found success with films like “The Mummy Returns” (2001) and a spinoff, “The Scorpion King” (2002). He joined the “Fast and the Furious” franchise in 2011 for its fifth film. This year, according to Forbes magazine, he became the world’s   actor. (It may be noteworthy that four of the Top 5 earners  —   Mr. Johnson, Mr. Damon, Tom Cruise and Johnny Depp  —   have each been People’s Sexiest Man Alive. It may also be noteworthy that with one exception, Kate Upton in 2014, the magazine does not traditionally name a “Sexiest Woman Alive. ”) “Remember, sexy isn’t something you ‘try and be.’ Sexy happens naturally when you’re comfortable just being yourself,” Mr. Johnson wrote on Instagram Tuesday when sharing the news. At    and 245 pounds, he is, physically, one of the largest men ever chosen by the magazine. Muscle and Fitness magazine once chronicled his daily diet at the height of his bodybuilding regimen: more than 5, 000 calories spread over seven meals, including a dozen eggs, a lot of cod and a steak. (In “Moana,” he voices the demigod Maui, a character that has been criticized as promoting negative stereotypes of Polynesians as overweight.) The actor is unabashedly populist in his career choices, telling British GQ last summer that he is “in the business of making movies for people, making content for people. ” “And that means people all over the world,” he continued. “Because as soon as you start thinking on a global scale, you are making more people happy, you are making more money, you are making the studios more money, you are making everybody happy. ” In that same interview, Mr. Johnson floated the idea of following the model set by Arnold Schwarzenegger, a fellow    and perhaps going into politics. “I can’t deny that the thought of being governor, the thought of being president, is alluring,” he said. “And beyond that, it would be an opportunity to make a real impact on people’s lives on a global scale. ”