Each week, Nate Cohn, The Upshot’s elections analyst, and Toni Monkovic, an Upshot editor, will discuss the 2016 race and post a lightly edited transcript of their written exchange. The primary season is over. Hillary Clinton is the presumptive Democratic nominee. Yet the question of Bernie Sanders, and just what he will do next  —   and what he expects  —   remains unresolved. Toni You recently tweeted: “A fun thought experiment: Imagine Sanders winning but Clinton refusing to endorse unless he adopted her views, etc. ” Sanders will speak to his supporters via videoconference tonight at 8:30 p. m. Eastern from Burlington, Vt. He still hasn’t endorsed her, and he’s still pushing hard for his policies. But what kind of leverage does he have? Nate I think it’s an interesting kind of leverage. The Clinton camp would certainly like his   endorsement. On the other hand, the longer he holds off endorsing, the less valuable it becomes and the more he risks marginalizing himself as the conversation moves on to the general election. Toni His goal of opening all primaries so that independents and others can vote  —   it’s more complicated than he makes it out to be, particularly if the G. O. P. has a lot of closed primaries, right? Nate It’s certainly debatable. Personally, I think that there are very good arguments on either side of the “closed” versus “open” primary debate. Both have advantages and disadvantages. I think the national mix of open and closed primaries reflects that well. That said  —   and this is somewhat subtle  —   I think the case for requiring one party to have open primaries everywhere is a little worse than the case for open primaries in the abstract. In states where the G. O. P. has closed primaries, conservative registered Democrats or registered unaffiliated voters who lean toward Republicans will be able to participate only in Democratic primaries. That can make Democratic primaries more conservative, not less. Toni   voter registration is another Sanders goal, and it sounds like a laudable one. But the Democratic National Committee can’t wave a magic wand to make it happen. Nate No, the Democrats would probably wave a wand to make it happen if they could. It would help them a lot in the general election. I believe Clinton goes even further, and supports universal automatic registration laws. But voter registration laws are set by state governments, not by the state or national parties. Sanders is barking up the wrong tree. Toni We’ve covered the issue of superdelegates. Let’s get back to the question of leverage. Everyone is wondering about the end game for Sanders. But maybe he’s on the right track. If he can drive a hard bargain at the convention, maybe he can help smooth the path to unity by showing his supporters that he’s won concessions. He may have more credibility with his supporters when he eventually comes around to supporting Clinton. He’s not the typical politician  —   in many ways. He may never run again (he’ll be 78 in 2020). So why not drive a hard bargain? Nate What’s he asking for? And what could he ask for that he could plausibly get that would have the effect you’re imagining? I think the danger for Sanders is that he loses leverage as the election moves on without him, especially if Clinton leads Trump. Toni His persona has been as a fighter, and he probably feels this is his last shot on this kind of stage. I’m not clear either on how important the specific goals are to him, but it seems important to him not to be seen as rolling over. But speaking of something specific beyond his policy preferences, he would like changes in the leadership of the Democratic National Committee, especially the removal of Debbie Wasserman Schultz. The early debate schedule set by the committee has long been a sore point with Sanders and his supporters: There were fewer debates than Sanders wanted  —   conspicuously fewer than the Republicans had  —   and most were on weekends, when fewer people would tune in. Nate I think that’s a fair complaint. But my suspicion is that Sanders isn’t withholding an endorsement because of Debbie Wasserman Schultz. Toni So then why do you think Sanders is withholding his endorsement? Nate I don’t know! I thought he would have dropped out by now. Maybe we’ll find out tonight. Toni I’d like to follow up on your big project last week: “There Are More White Voters Than People Think. That’s Good News for Trump. ” I’m curious about the reaction to it, whether some people might have misunderstood it. Ann Coulter, for example, who drove quite a few readers to the article among her supporters on the right, said it confirmed what she’s been saying all along. Nate I don’t know what she said. Toni Well, there were a lot of tweets, about 10. Like this: And this: A lot of criticism of Mitt Romney’s strategy, and a feeling that Republicans should focus on the white vote and not the Hispanic vote. Nate I don’t think she’s necessarily misinterpreting it, from what I see here. I do think it’s wrong to assume that Trump can mobilize a large pool of white voters who haven’t voted in any recent election, especially with virtually no field operation to register and mobilize them. But I do think Coulter’s basic point in that link from March  —   that there’s a lot of room for Trump to gain among white voters in the North, and that the national white vote in 2012 is misleading  —   is basically right. I doubt the G. O. P. will make big gains among Northern whites by pursuing the sort of messages and policies that Coulter prefers, but that’s a separate question. Toni But you also agree with Harry Enten of FiveThirtyEight that your data about the electorate is largely a reason to think current polls are correct. And the current polls show a fairly significant move in Clinton’s direction. Nate Sure. Whether Trump is taking advantage of the theoretical opening for a conservative populist candidate to win among white voters is a very different question from whether such an opening exists. He’s burning way too much support among   and nonwhite voters, at least right now. Toni On the question of “missing white voters,” you have suggested that they are more likely to be young white Democrats, people more likely to “feel the Bern” than to vote for Trump. Nate Yes. Toni And the announcement last week that President Obama and Clinton would travel together to Green Bay (a trip postponed because of the terror attack) seemed to dovetail with your conclusions. Whites in Wisconsin are fairly fond of Obama, or at least more fond than people might have thought. Nate Wisconsin was a great state for Obama, and it’s never been a great state for Clinton. He beat her by almost 18 points there in the 2008 Democratic primary, and she lost it to Sanders by 14 points this year. Obama won the state by seven points in 2012, which was much better than John Kerry or Al Gore did. Toni  We’re going to try hard not to focus on individual polls  —   the average of polls is what people should look at. The recent Bloomberg survey showed Clinton ahead by 12, but as you pointed out on Twitter, “Almost exactly four years ago:   shows Obama up 13 points over Romney. ” Obama wound up winning by only four points. Still, some of the numbers are scary for Trump: the percentage who say they could never vote for him (55) and the percentage of women who say they could never vote for him (63). Nate Most of the polls right now show a tighter race than Bloomberg does, so I think most of those numbers should be taken with caution.  Toni What about recent ratings that show Trump at a staggering 70 percent unfavorable? Should we shrug because it’s too early? Nate Well, this has been his big problem for months. In March and April, the same poll had his unfavorable rating at 67 percent. It’s obviously going to be very difficult for him to win if he can’t change the public’s view. In particular, I think it’s very hard for him so long as a majority of Americans have a “strongly” unfavorable view. The   poll hasn’t had it less than 48 percent all year, and it’s 56 percent in this particular survey. Toni The Bloomberg poll numbers show that people trust Trump slightly more on terrorism than Clinton. So that’s one potential way he could improve his numbers. But are you in the camp that believes it’s too early to tell how the issue will play after Orlando? Nate I’m not a big fan of issue questions in analyzing the race, so I don’t think it’s worth spending too much time dwelling on who can best handle the economy or terrorism. I think the biggest indicator I would watch is President Obama’s approval rating. If the attack takes a toll on his numbers, as the San Bernardino and Paris attacks seemed to, then that’s probably a good sign for Trump. Toni NBC News reported that the Clinton side is putting up ads in Colorado, Florida, Iowa, Nevada, New Hampshire, Ohio, North Carolina and Nevada. But not Pennsylvania? Nate Yeah, which is a little strange to me. There are basically two views of Pennsylvania. One is that it’s sort of fool’s gold for the G. O. P. since it’s fairly close but the Democrats have a big party registration advantage and generate huge margins out of Philadelphia. The other view is that it was pretty close in 2012  —   closer than Iowa, Nevada, New Hampshire, and basically the same as Colorado  —   it has trended slightly toward the G. O. P. with respect to the country over the last decade or so, and it doesn’t have very many nonwhite voters. I have a slightly different view, which is that I think Pennsylvania is as good a state as any for Trump, even if it’s not a great one. So, I take the point that it’s a huge long shot. But just about everything is a long shot for Trump at this point, and I’m not convinced it’s harder for him than a state like Colorado or Virginia, which are better educated and more diverse, even if they have less Democratic voting traditions. Toni Trump recently said: “I think I’ve made polling a very important thing. ’Cause I never used to hear about polls. ” He seems so obsessed with polls that I wonder if it will drive him nuts if he stays behind. If he’s trailing into the fall, I could imagine an attempt by his side to say the polls are inaccurate  —   like the “unskewed polls” movement from many Republicans in 2012. (They insisted that the polls were wrong and that Romney would win). If it comes to that, you and analysts like Nate Silver and others will be asked repeatedly to assess that claim and address the accuracy of polls. I could see that becoming a big part of your life for a few months  —   sorry. Nate Absolutely. It was pretty annoying in 2012. Toni Are you ready? Nate I’ll make it. In recent weeks, Nate and Toni discussed whether the superdelegate system should survive looked into claims from Sanders supporters that elections were rigged and looked askance at surveys showing Sanders outperforming Clinton in polling against Donald Trump. 