There have been aerial signs reading “Hillary for Prison,” rallying cries of “lock her up,” misogynistic souvenir swag mocking her body parts and, in a violent turn, a public call for Hillary Clinton to be executed. Political conventions are usually a mix of talking up the party’s nominee and denouncing the opponent. But as Republicans gather in Cleveland to nominate Donald J. Trump, the venom being directed at Mrs. Clinton, the presumptive Democratic nominee, has taken a strikingly sinister tone that makes the days of   and   at past conventions seem tame. Here are some of the harshest attacks leveled at Mrs. Clinton this week. Hillary Clinton’s responsibility for the deaths of Americans in Benghazi, Libya, in 2012 has been a regular topic of conversation among Republicans, and on Tuesday Al Baldasaro, a delegate for Mr. Trump from New Hampshire who advises him on veterans issues, suggested that she had committed treason. “This whole thing disgusts me  —   Hillary Clinton should be put in the firing line and shot for treason,” Mr. Baldasaro said on The Kuhner Report radio show. Mrs. Clinton has not been charged with committing any crimes. Mr. Trump has previously described Mr. Baldasaro, a state representative from New Hampshire who was on the convention floor on Tuesday night, as his favorite veteran. Mr. Baldasaro had no regrets about the remark on Wednesday, telling WMUR of Manchester, N. H. that he would also be satisfied with other forms of execution. “As far as I’m concerned, it is treason and the penalty for treason is the firing squad  —   or maybe it’s the electric chair now,” he said. The U. S. Secret Service later said it was investigating the matter. If execution is taking things too far, sending Mrs. Clinton to prison is another popular wish at the Republican National Convention. The chants of “lock her up!” echoed through Quicken Loans Arena on Monday night when Michael Flynn, a retired lieutenant general advising Mr. Trump, ripped into Mrs. Clinton for her “careless” use of a private email server as secretary of state. “Lock her up,” he said, rousing the crowd. “You’re damn right. There’s nothing wrong with that. Lock her up! You know why we’re saying that? If I did a 10th of what she did, I would be in jail today. ” Mr. Flynn, who was briefly considered as a potential running mate for Mr. Trump, also called on “Crooked Hillary Clinton” to quit the race because of her lack of integrity. Ben Carson got a prime speaking slot at the convention on Tuesday evening, and he took a different approach at questioning Mrs. Clinton’s integrity. Digging into her college thesis about Saul Alinksy, the   community organizer and radical, Mr. Carson suggested that Mrs. Clinton admired him. Then he pointed out that Mr. Alinsky had acknowledged Lucifer on the dedication page of one of his books, suggesting that such an association was somehow damning for Mrs. Clinton. “Are we willing to elect someone as president who has as their role model someone who acknowledges Lucifer?” Mr. Carson asked. “Think about that. ” The connection might seem like a stretch, but Mr. Carson, who ended his own presidential bid in March, doubled down on his assertions Wednesday morning. “If she believed that at that time  —   and now you look at her actions  —   you look at what she advocates, the killing of babies, the dissolution of the traditional family, all these kinds of things  —   those are pretty consistent, quite frankly,” Mr. Carson said on CNN. One of the most emotional attacks on Mrs. Clinton came from Patricia Smith, whose son was killed in the 2012 Benghazi attack. On the first night of the convention, she called Mrs. Clinton a liar who was responsible for her son’s death. “For all of this loss, for all of this grief, for all of this cynicism the tragedy in Benghazi has brought upon America, I blame Hillary Clinton,” she told the cheering crowd on Monday. “I blame Hillary Clinton personally for the death of my son. ” After laying blame on Mrs. Clinton, Ms. Smith also accused her of lying to her directly about how her son, Sean, had died and said that the State Department had withheld information from her. “How could she do this to me? ,” she said. “How could she do this to any American family?”