On a typical game day, Alex Rodriguez would ride to work up Broadway, through Harlem and Washington Heights  —   where he was born  —   and into the South Bronx. It was a quiet time when he could sit in the back, stare out the window at the city passing by him, and formulate a game plan. But on Friday, as Rodriguez made the journey for the last time as a Yankees player, it was a moment of nostalgia. He said he thought back to all his great memories, including the 2009 World Series championship, and perhaps other notable moments, like his two Most Valuable Player Awards as a Yankee, his 3, 000th hit, and even the drive home after losing Game 7 to the Red Sox in 2004. He also hit 196 home runs at Yankee Stadium heading into Friday night’s game, and 696 over all. For people who know Rodriguez well, the idea that he would retire from baseball before he became the fourth player to hit 700 home runs simply does not compute. It may be difficult, but over the last two years, a transformative period in his life, Rodriguez has come to the conclusion that there are more important things than baseball milestones. “Hal has given me an opportunity to stay in the organization,” Rodriguez said of Hal Steinbrenner, the Yankees owner who offered Rodriguez a job as a special adviser through 2017. “With all my   and how badly I acted, the fact that I’m walking out the door and Hal wants me as part of the family  —   that’s hitting 800 home runs for me. That’s something I will be able to share with my daughters for a long time. ” Rodriguez’s contrition and acknowledgment that he behaved poorly during the Biogenesis scandal has been liberating and uplifting for him. There was a time in 2013 when he responded to drug accusations by filing lawsuits against Major League Baseball, the players’ union and members of the Yankees’ medical staff. But on the eve of spring training in 2015, after quietly serving a   suspension for his admitted use of   substances, he went with hat in hand to Yankee Stadium. Accompanied by Jim Sharp, his new lawyer and mentor, he personally apologized to Steinbrenner, the team president Randy Levine and General Manager Brian Cashman. Since then he has acted virtually without fault in public, and his metamorphosis into a respected elder statesman is what enabled him to leave with dignity intact, proud to tell his daughters that yes, he messed up, but he atoned, too. Still, it will be difficult to give up the game. Few have ever loved playing baseball more than Rodriguez, and some team may seek to sign him after the Yankees were to officially release him at the conclusion of Friday’s game. The Marlins, from Rodriguez’s hometown, Miami, could have interest. But Rodriguez, while not ruling anything out, sounded content with the idea that his time may be up. He went into Friday batting . 199, the lowest of his career, and he joked that merely making contact three times against the Red Sox on Thursday was an accomplishment. Exhausted from the tumult of the last week, he said he probably would not even take calls from anyone  —   unless it was Hal Steinbrenner  —   for a while. “Baseball has a funny way to tap you on the shoulder when you least expect it and tell you it’s the end,” he said. “I’m at peace, and I’m really excited. This is a happy day for me and my family. ” Rodriguez planned to go back to Miami to decompress. His mind could change, and the Yankees would not stand in his way. But there is also something to be said for retiring as a Yankee, his team since 2004. “For me, wearing the pinstripes is enough,” he said. His official duties as an adviser and instructor will not begin until next spring, although Rodriguez said he may visit Tampa to check in on some of the Yankees’ prospects. He also said he would vigorously support the team that was about to release him, as they pursue playoff position. The Yankees went into Friday’s game three and a half games out of the second American League   spot. “Crazier things have happened, and there is a lot of talent in that clubhouse,” he said. “When you think about what Gary Sanchez has brought into our clubhouse just the last week, it’s exciting and fun to watch. This team can do some special things. It can surprise people, for sure. ” A baseball junkie who regularly watches late West Coast games in his home after Yankees games have ended, Rodriguez warned that he would not be able to watch his former team right away, though. “If I wake up on time tomorrow I would watch tomorrow’s game,” he said with a chuckle. “I may have a couple cocktails tonight, so I may not wake up at game time tomorrow. But I’ll definitely watch Sunday’s game. ”