When Donald J. Trump made an appearance this spring at the New York Military Academy, his high school alma mater in    he spoke of it with gratitude and in glowing terms, describing it as “one of the really great military academies. ” “I had such incredible experiences here,” Mr. Trump told a crowd during a campaign stop in April. But six years ago, when it was on the verge of closing under the weight of debt, and a small group from the school came to Trump Tower seeking financial assistance, Mr. Trump gave a swift and firm response: No. “We were disappointed,” said Rich Pezzullo, an alumnus who attended the meeting, which took place as Mr. Trump was participating in an online real estate auction and ended when the winner of his Miss USA pageant showed up. “We thought he’d open up his checkbook,” Mr. Pezzullo said. Over the years, Mr. Trump has billed himself as an “ardent philanthropist,” and his official biography says that he is “involved with numerous civic and charitable organizations. ” But the depiction of Mr. Trump as a generous benefactor has recently come into question amid a series of reports raising doubts about whether he has followed through on his lavish pledges, whether he misused the foundation that bears his name and whether he financially supports it at all. Interviews with people who have worked with or solicited money from him, as well as years of publicly available charity records, paint a picture of Mr. Trump as a reluctant giver despite his wealth. Donations from his foundation, which in recent years has been exclusively financed by others, sometimes served his own needs while helping the recipients. Jack O’Donnell, who was president and chief operating officer of Trump Plaza Hotel  Casino in the late 1980s, said Mr. Trump would question the need for donations, even those as small as a couple thousand dollars. “He’d say ‘Why are we doing this?’ or ‘Do we have to give this much?’ ” said Mr. O’Donnell, who parted ways with Mr. Trump on bad terms and was described by the Trump campaign as a disgruntled former employee. “I don’t know how else to put it: He’s cheap. ” Mr. Trump’s philanthropic endeavors over the past four decades have been dotted with pledges to donate the proceeds from books or speeches. Sometimes, Mr. Trump has stepped in to help a person in need, with the cameras rolling. And Mr. Trump, usually accompanied by his wife, Melania, has been a familiar face at   benefit galas in New York and Florida, where the rich and famous mingle and are seen. He has also more quietly supported other causes over the years. He has donated to and sits on the board of the Police Athletic League, a youth sports organization in New York. And Mr. Trump has won a lifetime achievement award from the American Cancer Society for his giving. “At the end of the day, in my narrow world, he’s a board member who has consistently contributed to us,” said Frederick Watts, the executive director of the Police Athletic League. Mr. Trump’s campaign, in response to questions about his giving practices, called him “extremely generous with both his time and his money. ” “Mr. Trump regularly makes personal contributions to worthy charitable causes and organizations, but does not seek recognition,” his spokeswoman, Hope Hicks, said in an email. “Mr. Trump has made several significant contributions to the Trump Foundation, including an initial   lump sum at its inception. Since then he has made personal contributions, and regularly waives fees for appearances, speeches and publicity rights instead encouraging the donations be made to charity. ”  In 1987 Mr. Trump started the Donald J. Trump Foundation, a nonprofit through which his own donations and those of others are channeled to causes and institutions. Through 2014, according to the foundation’s tax filings, he had donated $5. 4 million to the foundation, a small fraction of his   net worth of billions of dollars. Mr. Trump and his aides say that in addition to what the foundation gives, he writes personal checks directly to charities. His personal tax returns would reveal his deductions for charitable giving, but he has refused to release those returns. Hillary and Bill Clinton’s returns show deductions for $23 million in donations since 2001, about 10 percent of their income. A series of reports in recent weeks, most notably in The Washington Post, have revealed that Mr. Trump has stopped giving money to his own foundation in recent years. Instead, the foundation has been relying exclusively on the donations of others. Mr. Trump has then given that money away, sometimes claiming credit for these donations. The Post also reported that it had not been able to turn up evidence that Mr. Trump had delivered on most of his pledges to donate income from speeches and books. Mr. Trump has also used the foundation’s money in questionable ways, including a donation to a political action committee aligned with the attorney general of Florida while she was considering whether to bring legal action against his Trump University. That led to a $2, 500 penalty by the Internal Revenue Service for improperly using the foundation for political purposes. The Trump campaign has called the $25, 000 donation a clerical error. The Post also reported this week that two donations totaling $258, 000 had been made from the foundation to settle legal disputes involving Mr. Trump’s businesses. “This story was not accurate,” Ms. Hicks said in a statement.  The attorney general of New York is currently investigating how the foundation’s money is spent neither Mr. Trump nor the foundation have been charged or penalized for any wrongdoing beyond the $2, 500. Other donations have been directed to organizations aligned with Mr. Trump’s politics. The foundation contributed $100, 000 to support Citizens United, the conservative watchdog group that, among other things, has sued for access to records from Mrs. Clinton’s State Department. The foundation also gave $25, 000 to a foundation affiliated with the conservative monthly The American Spectator. (Neither recipient was a political action committee.) Foundation tax records for 2014 illustrate how Mr. Trump has recently used its money. The Citizens United gift was the largest donation. The foundation gave $50, 000 each to the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society in West Palm Beach, and to the private school his son Barron attends. Four other charities  —   the Police Athletic League, two health organizations and the   League  —   received about $100, 000 between them, and a collection of other groups received smaller grants totaling about $200, 000. His high school alma mater received roughly $30, 000 from the foundation over the years, but those contributions ended in 2005. When the academy contingent  —   which included Theodore Dobias, a former coach and administrator at the academy whom Mr. Trump has described as a major influence in his life  —   came by his office in 2010, Mr. Trump made clear that he did not view the school as a worthwhile investment given its dire financial straits, Mr. Pezzullo, the alumnus, said. The school would eventually declare bankruptcy and was close to closing before an investor bought it at auction last year. Even when donations were effectively made with other people’s money, Mr. Trump sometimes received the attention. In 2012, his foundation made a $10, 000 contribution to the charitable arm of the Florida Association of the American Institute of Architects as part of its 100th anniversary. The group had solicited the owners of Florida buildings it highlighted as great architecture, including Mr. Trump’s    estate in Palm Beach, which was honored as the top historic structure in the state. In return for their donations, the owners “got great publicity,” said Vicki Long, the association’s vice president and chief executive. The same year, foundation tax records show, it gave $50, 000 to the Child Mind Institute in New York, which bought Mr. Trump and his wife seats at the organization’s gala dinner. They also attended a gala for Operation Smile, a nonprofit that treats cleft palates and lips, and to which the foundation gave $100, 000. Mr. Trump’s meshing of charity and publicity goes back decades, including an episode in 1986 when he helped a Georgia widow save her farm from foreclosure. After the woman’s husband had committed suicide, Mr. Trump solicited donations on her behalf and made one of his own. When their goal was reached, he held a news conference at Trump Tower at which the widow did a symbolic burning of the mortgage papers. Frank Argenbright, an Atlanta businessman who was part of the   effort, recalled Mr. Trump paying great attention to the details of the event, including what cigarette lighter to use. “He said ‘I don’t want to go down there in front of the cameras and not have it work,’ ” Mr. Argenbright said.