Donald J. Trump entered the homestretch of the campaign at a pronounced financial disadvantage to Hillary Clinton, according to figures Mr. Trump’s team released on Saturday, and far below the   goal he set for himself earlier in the race. After raising $100 million in partnership with Republican Party organizations in September, Mr. Trump and committees linked to his campaign began October with $75 million in cash on hand. Mrs. Clinton raised $154 million in September and began October with roughly $150 million in the bank, her campaign said, twice as much as Mr. Trump. Many of the Republican Party’s leading contributors have stayed away from his campaign, judging from financial disclosures filed by Mr. Trump and his party on Saturday, signaling his difficulties in persuading party elites to back him. One exception was Peter Thiel, the billionaire Silicon Valley investor who spoke in support of Mr. Trump at the Republican convention in July. A person close to Mr. Thiel said on Saturday that the investor was putting $1. 25 million behind Mr. Trump’s campaign. Still, Mrs. Clinton will have a huge war chest for   advertising and organizing at a time when she has regained her lead in public opinion polls and Mr. Trump is openly feuding with his party and mired in accusations that he groped women. The monthly figure was a record for Mr. Trump and provided evidence of his powerful appeal among   donors: The campaign now estimates that 2. 6 million people have given to his campaign. But it was only a small improvement over his   in July and August, suggesting he might have peaked. Moreover, Mr. Trump has so far not followed through on promises to spend $100 million of his own fortune on the campaign. In September, he contributed $2 million, his usual amount since he became the Republican nominee, leaving him roughly $44 million short of his goal. Mr. Trump also said he would blitz Mrs. Clinton with $100 million in advertising, but he has spent about $32 million, according to two Republican media buyers, although they have reserved substantial additional advertising in swing states. “Our ad spending strategy has not changed,” Hope Hicks, a Trump spokeswoman, wrote in an email. “Mr. Trump continues to make significant contributions to his campaign. ” Mr. Trump is not starved for cash and could still make additional investments in television and turnout to increase his chances on Nov. 8. But his campaign has been marred by disagreements with Republican organizations in some key states. On Saturday, Mr. Trump’s campaign cut ties with Matt Borges, the chairman of the Republican Party in Ohio, a pivotal swing state. A Trump aide accused Mr. Borges of publicly undermining Mr. Trump to promote his own ambitions to run for chairman of the Republican National Committee. In a letter to other Ohio Republicans, the aide, Robert Paduchik, said Mr. Borges had spent the past week on a “  media tour with state and national outlets to criticize our party’s nominee. ” Still, Mr. Paduchik added that he expected the Ohio Republican Party to keep covering payroll costs that it had been paying on behalf of Mr. Trump’s campaign. Some leading Republican donors have tried an awkward straddle, providing money to a “super PAC” that is focused on attacking Mrs. Clinton but is said to be aiming its fire to achieve maximum benefit for Republican House and Senate candidates endangered by Mr. Trump’s slide. That group, called Future45, received $5 million from the casino magnate Sheldon Adelson in September and the same amount from his wife, Miriam. An additional $2. 3 million came from Joe Ricketts, the TD Ameritrade founder, and other donors, including the coal magnate Joe Craft. But disclosures filed with the Federal Election Commission on Saturday hinted at fragmentation and disarray among outside groups that support Mr. Trump and have competed with one another for dollars and turf. While Mr. Trump’s sons and advisers have appeared at   for two groups  —   Great America PAC and Rebuilding America Now  —   at least three additional super PACs have organized in apparent support of him. One, called Save America From Its Government, was founded by Andrew Beal, a banker and real estate investor who is a member of Mr. Trump’s economic advisory team. According to disclosures filed with the Federal Election Commission, Mr. Beal gave $2 million to the group in September, nearly all of the money it reported raising. A fourth group, a committee called American Horizons, was attacked by the Trump campaign this summer for promoting a “Dinner With Donald” contest that Mr. Trump had neither authorized nor agreed to. The complaints do not appear to have affected  : American Horizons raised $750, 000 from July to September, a third of it from donors giving hundreds of dollars each. The committee has spent just $12, 000 on expenditures backing Mr. Trump. But the biggest chunk of spending, about $400, 000, went to fees to a consulting firm owned by the PAC’s treasurer.