Last February, when my    Katrina, was struggling to put together a     family trip for spring break, she turned to a nontraditional travel agent: Leo Kugel of Silver Spring, Md. Leo shelved the original Caribbean plan in favor of New Orleans, selected a hotel that had something for everyone, and found an inexpensive flight. But though at    Leo is at least as tall as your average travel agent, he is actually my    nephew. “We were stalled out, ” Katrina told me. “And he said ‘I’ll take it from here.’ I was a little bit skeptical. ” But aside from a tweak in the flight, everyone  —   Katrina my brother, Jeremy my younger nephew, Grady my mom (a. k. a. Grammy) and my Aunt Nancy  —   agreed to his choices, including a   stay in Le Pavillon. When I heard about this, I may have tilted my head like a dog when it hears a weird noise. When did kids suddenly acquire travel planning skills? I’m pretty sure the first time I picked a hotel was when I met up with my girlfriend in England at age 23. Actually, she probably picked it. But times have changed. “The general concept of your children influencing your vacation,” said Karen Cicero, travel editor at Parents magazine, “whether helping pick the destination or planning part of the trip, is a trend. ” I’m skeptical when people use the   but she pointed to a 2015 survey of 540 parents by YouGov for HomeAway, the vacation rental site, showing that millennial parents are more likely to let their children ages 6 to 18 pick a destination themselves, than children of older parents. It makes sense. Trip planning, these days, takes place mostly online, and children know a thing or two about the internet. Considering that Leo shops for sneakers and jackets online, looking for deals to convince his parents, the jump to hotels doesn’t seem drastic. Ms. Cicero said that social media also played a role. “My daughter is 13, and if you scroll through her Instagram feed, you’ll see pics of her friends’ vacations  —   it gets kids excited and gives them ideas. If you think back to even 10 years ago, school ended and you didn’t find out where your friends had gone until you went back. ” Involving children has benefits beyond   experience. “What this highlights is the importance of getting ” said Rainer Jenss, the president and founder of the Family Travel Association. “A lot of parents don’t consider getting their kids involved in the planning process, dictate it to them and sometimes make assumptions about what would make the kids happy. ” That can lead to   choices like Disney World or   cruises. But “if kids are involved in the decision,” he said, “they have ownership. ” I reached Leo on his cellphone as his parents drove him and Grady to a Massachusetts summer camp. “Everyone wanted to go to the Dominican Republic,” he said, “but it’s pretty expensive, so I tried to find a place that was warm and not too expensive. ” That ended up being New Orleans. He checked a weather app to make sure it wouldn’t be too cold. The hotel was trickier. He knew his parents wanted to be “close to the center but not so close that it would be so loud I couldn’t sleep,” Leo said. He had a priority as well: a pool. A web search led to Groupon. com, where he spotted a photo of Le Pavillon’s rooftop pool. He went to lepavillon. com, and noted that the hotel was “a short stroll to the French Quarter. ” And he didn’t forget the older generation. “It had kind of a French name so it sounded like Grammy might like it. ” Curious if he was on target, I emailed my father, Peter Kugel, who confirmed that his wife might be swayed by a French moniker. He signed the email “Pierre,” and cc’ed her. Some experts caution that while involving children in planning is good, there are no precise guidelines. Parents should set limits appropriate to their own children. (Allow me to interpret: Not every    is as awesome as my nephew.) “Younger kids and some teens don’t necessarily have all the tools to plan a trip in a way that would make everyone happy,” said Mark Bertin, a developmental pediatrician in Pleasantville, N. Y. “But as long as you’re aware of what your child’s really capable of, you could even involve a younger child a little bit. ” Maintaining veto power is a   but so is setting boundaries to avoid having to use it  —   perhaps by preselecting options for children to choose among. “If they make a choice that is not practical, it puts you at loggerheads,” said Dr. Karl Neumann, the pediatrician behind kidstraveldoc. com. But for children who can handle it, open planning encourages them to consider others’ preferences. That was a challenge when Maddie Bates, 15, of Sterling, Va. was put in charge (along with her brother, Tyler, 20) of the yearly family vacation  —   also for a   group of six. Greece was their pick, influenced in part by Maddie’s friends who had visited. In a phone call, Maddie described the different preferences within the group. She is into food, while her brother “likes    kind of stuff. ” Then there’s her dad, who is the reading, relaxing type. Her aunt, Philippa Hughes, is into “arts stuff. ” Maddie’s research method led her away from review sites and toward bloggers who had written narratives on trips to Greece. “It was a lot better than reading reviews on TripAdvisor,” she said, “because you knew what they were doing and how they were feeling when they went to each place. ” She also got tips from friends. To encourage family feedback, the two siblings posted suggested activities on Travefy, which allows collaborative trip planning. But up to a few days before departure, their father and aunt had barely meddled. Not so Maddie’s    Vietnamese grandmother. “I feel she’s kind of scared I’m planning,” said Maddie. “Because she’s been warning me about things she doesn’t like. She’s really just not a fan of walking. ” Being in charge was nice for Maddie, who is low on the hierarchy of her traditional Vietnamese family. “Usually, I don’t plan anything, I just go with the flow,” she said. “It’s nice to be the one planning rather than going on a trip and being like ‘I don’t know what I’m doing.’ ” She sounded more confident in her choices at 15 than Leo did at 12. “There was lots of pressure because if the hotel ended up being junky, it would be my fault,” he said. “But I got a sense of pride that I found the stuff. ” And as it turns out, everyone was happy. Not so on the trek to camp. The family was to spend the night together before the children were dropped off. I asked Leo if he helped plan that trip. “I wish I did,” he replied. “We’re staying at the Super 8. ”