A grand jury indicted Ronald Gasser Jr. on Thursday in the fatal  shooting of the former N. F. L. player Joe McKnight, handing down a   murder charge. The charge is more severe than the one that Mr. Gasser had initially faced in December, when critics complained that racial bias may have affected the investigation. If convicted, Mr. Gasser, 54, would face life in prison with no parole. The death of Mr. McKnight, 28, a star running back at the University of Southern California who later played for the Jets and Kansas City Chiefs in the N. F. L. spurred several days of protests. Supporters and Mr. McKnight’s former teammates were outraged after the police initially freed Mr. Gasser. Though the authorities said Mr. Gasser had admitted to the shooting on Dec. 1, he was not arrested and charged until four days later. Mr. Gasser was initially charged with manslaughter over what the authorities described as a “road rage” confrontation in Terrytown, La. about five miles southeast of New Orleans. “Subsequent to that arrest, the Jefferson Parish Sheriff’s Office and the Jefferson Parish District Attorney’s Office continued working together in a collaborative effort to develop additional evidence regarding the case,” the district attorney’s office said in a statement Thursday. “Today’s indictment comes as a result of that joint effort. ” Mr. Gasser’s bond was also increased to $750, 000. The delayed arrest and lesser initial charge had angered critics, who said that Mr. Gasser, the owner of a telecommunications firm and a real estate business, may have been afforded more leeway because he is white, or that the authorities were less invested in swift justice for a black man’s death. In a fiery response after the initial arrest, Sheriff Newell Normand of Jefferson Parish defended the pace of the investigation, saying the authorities needed time to build a better case in a state that has strong Stand Your Ground   laws. Investigators conducted more than 160 interviews and spoke to Mr. Gasser for more than 12 hours, Sheriff Normand said at a news conference in December. “Justice has no time period,” he said. “Justice is not a sprint. It is a marathon. These investigations are marathons. ” The confrontation began around 2:45 p. m. after both men were driving erratically, cutting each other off and zipping in front of each other, Sheriff Normand said. Mr. Gasser became irate and engaged in a “verbal altercation” with Mr. McKnight, the sheriff said. When they stopped next to each other at a red light, Mr. McKnight got out of his car and approached the window of Mr. Gasser’s car, the sheriff said. Mr. Gasser then pulled out a handgun from between his seat and the console and shot Mr. McKnight three times, according to the sheriff.