Marches have been the theme of the past couple weekends. There was the women’s march in Washington and around the world two weekends ago. And last weekend there was the March for Life, an annual protest against abortion. The Times called the people who marched in the latter march, “  marchers” in two headlines, to the ire of several readers. On the home page, the link to the briefing of the story read: “Pence Addresses March for Abortion Foes. ” We went to Phil Corbett, the associate managing editor for standards, for his reply. Last weekend there were also protests in response to President Trump’s executive order to ban refugees. The headline for The Times’s first story initially read: “Trump Bars Syrian Refugees Indefinitely to Keep Terrorists Out. ” It was then changed, 30 minutes later, to: “Trump Bars Refugees and Citizens of 7 Muslim Countries. ” We asked Peter Blair, a copy desk supervisor, for a reply. The public editor’s take: A clear, straightforward reply from the copy desk. (More on how the machinery of editing works in my Sunday column.) In describing Trump adviser Steve Bannon’s remarkable new role on the National Security Council, The Times used a word that a reader felt was gratuitous. We went back to Corbett on this point. The public editor’s take: I think the standards editor describes well the challenges of finding the right phrases and avoiding the wrong ones. And I think for the most part editors and reporters work hard to do that. In the case of “hatch,” though, I think it does carry a negative tone, not just of secrecy but something rather sinister too.  Last October, the public editor’s column addressed The Times’s purchase of a website called The Wirecutter and its sister site The Sweethome, which are in the business of recommending products to customers and making money when customers purchase those products through “affiliate links” like, say, Amazon. com. Through its purchase of these websites, The Times hopes to tap a new source of revenue as print advertising rapidly declines. The column argued that this model could be of value to The Times, but urged the paper to proceed carefully. “I hope The Times will move cautiously, not merely assuming readers will view this as a useful new service but actually asking them whether they do,” it said. “The Times has a lot to gain. And also to lose. ” This week, our office received our first email as the new arrangement began to make itself seen on The Times’s site. We asked Sam Sifton, the food editor, for his response. The public editor’s take: Hopefully, Sifton’s answer helps explain the arrangement to readers and answers concerns about potential conflicts. My earlier post gives my thoughts, but as this is more fully implemented, I will be watching closely, and I welcome comments from readers. Since November, several dozen readers have asked us if there is any way they could contribute extra money to The New York Times, in addition to purchasing a subscription. Friday The Times announced a new program for doing just this: Subscribers, and others who are interested, can now sponsor subscriptions for students in public schools. Those interested can find more information here. Finally, some readers, understandably, are feeling overwhelmed by the amount of news the past few weeks. The Times’s Christopher Mele tried to tackle this growing issue in a story this week. “If all else fails, and you still feel bouts of news fatigue,” he concluded, “you can turn to Twitter for photos of cute animals. ” That’s what we’re doing.