Until the Trump presidency became a reality, the main order of business in any review of “24: Legacy” would have been to assess whether the franchise is still viable without Jack Bauer, Kiefer Sutherland’s memorable counterterrorism operative, as its lead character. Now, though, and especially given the events of the past week, it’s the show’s chosen villains, not its hero, who demand attention. That’s because a good number of them speak in foreign accents, and some embody President Trump’s bogyman of the moment, the radical Muslim terrorist. This round of “24” begins Sunday night on Fox after the biggest   television can offer, the Super Bowl, and the first thing viewers will see is foreign terrorists ransacking a home whose owner, an Army Ranger, is tied to a chair and covered in blood. The intruders have already killed his wife and child. “This is for Sheik ” one of them says before shooting the ranger in the head. The premiere was filmed back when it seemed unlikely that Mr. Trump would be elected  —   it was screened in New York on Nov. 7  —   but the opening moments play as if they were scripted to support the immigration restrictions he imposed last week. The series grows considerably more layered as it goes along, with the panoply of villains encompassing a variety of demographics, yet the choice of a bin Laden surrogate as the starting point is sure to reignite the debate over the demonization of Muslims that “24” has encountered before. The new hero is Eric Carter (Corey Hawkins of “Straight Outta Compton”) who led the squad of Rangers who killed   preventing a devastating attack on the United States. For their safety, the Rangers involved were given new identities and   jobs, but Eric quickly discovers that all but he and Ben Grimes (Charlie Hofheimer) an unstable fellow, have been tracked down and killed. The men hunting the Rangers, we learn, are interested less in revenge than in something taken during the   raid. The signature “24” format  —   each episode represents an hour in real time  —   is as   as ever. One ingredient that has more or less disappeared, at least in the first four episodes, is the use of torture as a reliable way to get information, a frequent target of “24” critics. But while Jack Bauer’s violent tactics were repellent, the inner darkness they suggested gave the character a certain complexity. He could show fatherly concern about his daughter one minute and draw blood from a bad guy the next. Eric Carter isn’t as complicated or, as a result, as memorable, at least in the early going, though, by the fourth hour, the character has begun to gain traction. The new story branches quickly into multiple threads in classic “24” fashion, briefly visiting a high school that might be linked to a sleeper cell and also setting up possible romantic entanglements. Before pursuing his enemies, Eric drops off his wife, Nicole (Anna Diop) for safe keeping with his brother, Isaac (Ashley Thomas) a heavily armed drug dealer whom she used to date. (All three characters are black, and yes, it seems fair to ask why the show couldn’t have a black hero without making his brother a stereotypical black gangster.) And, of course, there is the   Unit, C. T. U. with its skilled staff and interoffice intrigues. The job of filling the   void left by Chloe, the analyst played so appealingly in the original series by Mary Lynn Rajskub, appears as if it were going to fall to Mariana (Coral Peña) who also has plenty of attitude and ability. She isn’t used enough early on, but presumably the role will grow. The crisis catches the unit at a moment of leadership change: Rebecca (Miranda Otto of “Homeland”) is stepping down as national director to allow her husband, John (Jimmy Smits) a senator, to run for president. (It’s a “24” rule that a president, potential president or past president must be involved in the  .) Mr. Smits has big shoes to fill  —   the past “24” presidents played by Dennis Haysbert and Gregory Itzin were two of TV’s standout characters in the first decade of this century. Mr. Smits, like Mr. Hawkins, gets off to a slow start, but, by the fourth hour, is becoming interesting. So aside from Jack Bauer, all of the standard “24” elements are in place, including the   look. Yet the terrorism aspect, for now at least, overshadows all. It should be noted that, at least in the first four episodes, the link between  ’s followers and Islam is merely implied, but there’s no doubt who and what are being invoked. (A different subplot involves a radical mosque.) Previous seasons of “24” spread the nefariousness around  —   villains included the Chinese, the Russians, Mexican drug cartels, American politicians and more  —   and “24: Legacy” aims to be an   demonizer, too. Not all of the venal characters here have brown skin or foreign accents, and, in one thread,   bigotry, not radical terror, is the problem. Broadly speaking, however, the world of “24: Legacy” is one in which Islam equals terror radical Muslim operatives are everywhere and no one can be trusted. Yes, the series is fiction, and yes, most TV viewers can distinguish between entertainment and reality. But the stakes for this “24” seem weightier than for most previous versions, because two things are more evident now than they were the last time we saw Jack Bauer. One is that certain people, including some now working in the White House, can’t, or won’t, separate the real from the fake when it supports their interests or beliefs. The other is that an insidious part of human nature thrives on having somebody to hate.