Need to book a hotel on the go, or a friendly dinner recommendation while exploring a new city? There’s a bot for that. In fact, there are now chatbots for all kinds of things, from weather updates to health advice, as the popularity of smartphone messaging apps driven by artificial intelligence grows. Mobile messaging apps were used by 1. 6 billion people in 2016, and will reach two billion in 2018, or 80 percent of all smartphone users, according to the digital data researcher eMarketer. Another sign of their growing influence was evident last April, when Facebook announced it was opening its Messenger app to any outside company that wants to integrate its own bots into the chat program. Now, the booking services Expedia, Kayak, Skyscanner and many others are allowing potential customers to seek recommendations on hotel rooms and flights and book them via Facebook Messenger. Several other   bots have sprung up in recent months, providing services like bookings and tips for activities, with a robotic touch. The technology is young, and while most of these chatbots have yet to become viable alternatives to existing travel planning options like Trip Advisor and traditional guides, it could be only a matter of time before our   culture embraces booking by text. Here is what three of the more interesting options have to offer so far: SnapTravel aims to find you a hotel based on your budget and preferences via SMS, Facebook Messenger or Slack. It uses a combination of artificial and human intelligence to search Expedia, Priceline and more than 100 other sites for the best deal, and claims to have “secret deals” of its own. The bot first asks for your travel city and dates, whether you have a specific hotel brand in mind and if you have any neighborhood preferences in the city. I texted SnapTravel while I was looking to book a few nights in my hometown, Binghamton, N. Y. during Thanksgiving week. Based on my initial responses, SnapTravel gave me a cost estimate for   and   hotels in the area. After another series of questions regarding my budget, brand preference and more, I was told to hang tight and it would get back to me with hotel options within an hour. Seven minutes later, I was sent what it deemed my four best options, with photos and links to more details and booking options for each hotel, a link to a map with more options, and I was asked if I wanted to be put in touch with one of its travel agents (who can offer some human insight). The entire process from start to finish took 16 minutes. But it felt more like an automated phone call with a cable company than a typical text conversation. I thanked the bot, and was pleased that it did not bug me later on, something I had expected. The hotel recommendations were a mixed bag. I told the bot that I prefer Marriott hotels, and it included a Courtyard Marriott within my budget. The other three included a    a local resort and a Homewood Suites by Hilton. Points for variety, but another Marriott choice would have been nice. Meanwhile the map with more options had only two additional hotels. As far as the deals themselves, they seemed legitimate when compared with the prices seen on discount booking websites like Hotwire. com. When you click on the hotel’s link on SnapTravel, you get its rates, are told whether there is a cancellation fee and are given the opportunity to compare its rate for that hotel with other booking sites. While you won’t get a comprehensive list to shop from, SnapTravel mostly did what it claims it can do, and in a timely manner. A spinoff from the Hipmunk booking website and smartphone app, Hello Hipmunk offers up a cute chipmunk to help you book travel from Facebook Messenger, Slack or Skype. Just be careful what you ask for. You will need to be specific if you want to get relevant results. I used Messenger to converse with Hipmunk, and before I had a chance to say hello, the critter asked me what airport I usually fly from. I said La Guardia, assuming it would understand that I meant La Guardia Airport in New York City. But it came back with: “Looks like you’re planning a getaway from Laguardia, Spain. ” I tried again, asking for some flight deals from New York to Chicago for the next week. He came back with: “You’re looking for the best time to go from New York City, NY, to Chicago, IL. Hold on, I’m digging through the data now. :)” Not really there, but we’re getting closer, and I appreciate the service with a smile. Next I tried: “I need a flight from New York to Chicago, leaving tomorrow and coming back on October 9. ” That seemed to do it. “Ready to jet? I’m finding you flights from New York City, NY, to Chicago, IL, on October 05, coming back on October 09,” the Hipmunk bot said. “I searched 736 itineraries. The least agonizing itinerary flies from LGA to ORD. ” Below were nine itineraries, rated one to nine in order of “least agonizing” with times and prices. This bot is fun to play with if you have the time, but it has a ways to go in the accuracy department. For the business traveler, there is Pana, which, like SnapTravel, combines artificial and human intelligence to plan your trip. The human factor seems to play a more significant role than it did with the other bots I tried. You don’t need to be a business traveler to benefit, but you do need to be a   traveler to justify the cost: $49 per month ($499 annually) for its “concierge” plan. But there is a   free trial to start. The involvement of humans may have explained the short delay in Pana’s response to my initial text (three minutes felt like an eternity compared with the other bots) but it also ultimately led to better results. After signing up and giving some basic information, including your email and phone number, Pana asks you for a quick phone call to get to know you a little better. But in keeping with the spirit of avoiding as much human interaction as possible, I passed on that and sought out its A. I. guidance. Pana gives you three ways to start: through email, SMS or its app. I chose SMS and received an introductory hello. I then texted that I wanted to fly from New York to Chicago, leaving next Monday and returning Friday. I got a response from “Jo” and learned that she is “a Canadian transplant in Hong Kong, avoiding the snow and loving the urban island life. ” Jo promised to look into my flight options and send them to me shortly. About an hour later, I received four flight itinerary options, sorted by price from lowest to highest. This was as far as I took it, but Pana is designed to be a   relationship. Your virtual travel agent can check you into flights and suggest hotels, and then can pivot to   to recommend restaurants and activities in your destination city.