Police responded to an incident in central London on Saturday night following a report a van has hit a number of pedestrians on London Bridge and of stabbings in nearby Borough Market. The Prime Minister confirmed the incident is being treated as an act of terrorism. [At 22:08hrs British Summer Time (BST) on Saturday, Metropolitan Police officers responded to reports of a vehicle in collision with pedestrians.  Police say the vehicle carried on down Borough Market where it came to a stop and three attackers then disembarked from the vehicle. They began stabbing members of the public with knives in pubs and restaurants in the popular dining area, some fatally. Within eight minutes of first calls being made, at 22:16, the three attackers were shot dead by armed officers outside of the Wheatsheaf Pub. The Metropolitan has confirmed seven fatalities, in addition to the three terrorists, and 48 injured individuals being treated in five hospitals across the city. Updates to the live blog continue below  …     12:30 BST  —   Victims from all over the world, While the identity of one of the victims of Saturday’s attack has been revealed as Canadian citizen Chrissy Archibald, there are six more known to have been killed by the three Islamist knifemen. No more names have come forward, but speaking at the scene at a press conference Monday afternoon London Mayor Sadiq Khan revealed the nationalities of the other victims, who may include the dead and injured. He said: “the victims include not just people from London, but people from Australia, New Zealand, Canada, France, Spain  …     you realise what a truly global city London is”. 12:00  —   Attack suspect may have appeared in Channel 4 Jihad documentary, Revelations made overnight suggest one of the London Bridge attackers was allegedly a   Islamist, who had even appeared on a Channel 4 documentary about Islamic extremism in the United Kingdom, and was seen praying to an Islamic State battle flag in a London park. Read more here. 10:00 BST  —   More   arrests, London’s Metropolitan Police and Counter Terrorism Command have made a number of new raids on London addresses, as they seek accomplices of Saturday’s terror trio who attacked London Bridge. Somewhat unusually, the number of individuals arrested and detained under terrorism legislation during these raids has not seen specified. Scotland Yard said in a statement this morning: At around 04:15hrs on Monday, 5 June, officers from the Met’s Counter Terrorism Command investigating the London Bridge terror attack entered two further addresses  —   one in Newham and another in Barking. A number of people have been detained and are at present being spoken to. Searches are ongoing at both addresses. The force has said an “enormous” amount of forensic material had been seized during the course of the searched. As of Sunday afternoon, 12 arrests had taken place. 02:14 BST, Christine Archibald, a young woman originally from Castlegar, B. C. was among the seven people killed in Saturday night’s attack in London.  00:09 BST, #UK #London  —   About 30 minutes after the claim, #  Telegram channels started sharing this propaganda. pic. twitter.   —   Terror Events (@TerrorEvents) June 4, 2017,  23:15 BST  —   Islamic State has claimed responsibility for the London Bridge terror attack, BREAKING: The head of the SITE intelligence group says the Islamic State group has claimed responsibility for the London attacks.  —   The Associated Press (@AP) June 4, 2017,  According to the AP: “The SITE Intelligence Group says Islamic State’s news agency is claiming fighters for the extremist group carried out the van and knife attack in London that left seven people dead. “SITE said in a statement Sunday that the Islamic State’s Aamaq news service cited ‘a security source’ in the   posting claiming the attack. “Islamic State has often made such claims not just when it has sent attackers, but when extremists carrying out deadly plots were inspired by the group’s ideology. “It’s the third attack this year that Islamic State has claimed in Britain, after the bombing in Manchester and a similar attack in the heart of London in March. “The three attackers in Saturday’s attack have not been identified. ” 22:40 BST   —   Metropolitan Police Assistant Commissioner Mark Rowley confirms arrests following raids in Barking identities of three men responsible to be released as soon as operationally possible. “Officers have been working tirelessly to process the crime scenes and release the cordons. We are hopeful that some of the cordons around London Bridge station will be released during the course of tomorrow morning  …     “The public can expect to see additional police  —   both armed and unarmed officers  —   across the Capital as you would expect in these circumstances. And our security and policing plans for events are being reviewed, the public will also see increased physical measures on London’s bridges to keep the public safe. ” Officers have made 12 arrests and are at present searching 4 properties. [A]    woman arrested at address 1 in Barking[B]    man arrested at address 2 in Barking[C]    man arrested at address 2 in Barking[D]    man arrested at address 2 in Barking[E]    man arrested at address 2 in Barking[F]    man arrested at address 2 in Barking, who has since been released without charge[G]    woman arrested at address 2 in Barking[H]    woman arrested at address 2 in Barking[I]    woman arrested at address 2 in Barking[J]    female arrested at address 2 in Barking[K]    female arrested at address 2 in Barking[L]    woman arrested at address 2 in Barking, “There have been no arrests at two residential addresses in Newham, although a number of people have been spoken to. “During the arrest stage Sunday no officers have deployed a TASER or a firearm. “All of those arrested have been detained under the Terrorism Act. ” AC Rowley stated the Met will release the identities of the three men directly responsible for the attacks as soon as operationally possible. 22:30 BST  —   Borough Station has now reopened, #Borough  —   the station has now reopened, following an earlier police investigation.  —   TfL Travel Alerts (@TfLTravelAlerts) June 4, 2017,  20:55 BST  —    Acting United States Ambassador to the United Kingdom Lewis Lukens has offered his condolences and support. Praises London Mayor Sadiq Khan, The response from emergency services, law enforcement  officials in Ldn —  as well as ordinary Londoners —  has been extraordinary.  —   LLukens    —   U. S. Embassy London (@USAinUK) June 4, 2017,  I commend the strong leadership of the @MayorofLondon as he leads the city forward after this heinous attack.  —   LLukens   https:  .   —   U. S. Embassy London (@USAinUK) June 4, 2017,   20:20 BST  —   One Canadian citizen confirmed amongst the fatalities, The prime minister of Canada, Justin Trudeau, issued the following statement after Saturday night’s terrorist attack: “Canada strongly condemns the senseless attack that took place last night in London, United Kingdom, which killed and injured many innocent people. I am heartbroken that a Canadian is among those killed. “We grieve with the families and friends of those who have lost loved ones, and wish all those injured a speedy and full recovery. “Londoners and people across the United Kingdom have always displayed strength and resilience in the face of adversity. We recently witnessed this after the attacks in Manchester and in the Westminster area of London. This time will be no different. “These hateful acts do not deter us they only strengthen our resolve. Canadians stand united with the British people. We will continue to work together with the United Kingdom and all our allies to fight terrorism and bring perpetrators to justice. “The Government of Canada will not comment further at this time out of respect for the family. ” Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau: ’I am heartbroken that a Canadian is among those killed.” #LondonAttacks pic. twitter.   —   CanadianUK (@CanadianUK) June 4, 2017,   18:50 BST  —   French citizens amongst the injured, one Frenchman killed, One Frenchman was killed and seven other French nationals were wounded in Saturday night’s attack, the French foreign minister,   Le Drian, has confirmed. Four of the injured French are in a critical condition and one more is still unaccounted for, he said. We are very sad to report the death of 1 french citizen in the #LondonAttacks. 7 compatriots are injured (4 badly) and one pers is missing.  —   French Embassy UK (@FranceintheUK) June 4, 2017,  16:50 BST  —   Met Assistant Commissioner Mark Rowley gives an update on terror attack, confirming eight police officers discharged their weapons, Mr. Rowley confirmed the Met are “are making significant progress in identifying the three attackers, and that there were no other suspects at the scene, when the attack was carried out”. “Work is ongoing to understand more about them, their connections and whether they were assisted or supported by anyone else. As I think you are aware there are searches ongoing in east London, and 12 arrests have been made. There is of course more to do, and we will work relentlessly to establish the facts. ” The Met has confirmed that the van used in the attack, a white Renault van, was recently hired by one of the attackers. “Our understanding is growing and as we currently understand it the van entered London Bridge at 21:58 travelling from the North to the South side of the river. The van mounted the pavement, and collided with pedestrians before being abandoned, where the attackers, armed with knives, continued into the Borough Market area, stabbing numerous people. “The attackers were then confronted by the firearms officers and I can confirm that eight police firearms officers discharged their weapons. Whilst this will be subject to thorough investigation by the IPCC our initial assessment is that in the region of 50 rounds were discharged by 8 officers. The three attackers were shot dead. ” “As the officers confronted the terrorists  —   and were shot  —   a member of the public also suffered gunshot wounds. Although we do not believe the injuries to critical in nature, they are in hospital receiving medical attention. We will of course keep you updated on that. ” Mr. Rowlety confirmed that seven people had been killed in addition to the three attackers and work was ongoing to inform next of kin. He said that the cordons in and around the London Bridge and Borough Market area will remain in place. “The public can expect to see additional police  —   both armed and unarmed officers  —   across the Capital. And our security and policing plans for events are being reviewed. The public will also see an increased physical measures in order to keep public safe on London’s bridges,” he added. Assistant Commissioner Mark Rowley live statement #LondonBridge #BoroughMarket https:  .   —   Metropolitan Police (@metpoliceuk) June 4, 2017,   16:30 BST  —   Searches are taking place at a property on a shop complex in East Ham, London, Sky Sources: searches are taking place in East Ham in London following the London Bridge attack,  —   Sky News Newsdesk (@SkyNewsBreak) June 4, 2017,  15:55 BST  —   NHS England confirms 21 people are still in critical condition, NHS England has said 36 people are still in hospital, 21 people in a critical condition after the attack. 36 patients still in hospital after London attacks  —   21 in critical care  —   Theresa May visited King’s College Hospital,  —   Hugh Pym (@BBCHughPym) June 4, 2017,   15:50 BST  ‘ Incredibly brave’ stabbed police officer fought off attackers armed with just a baton now in stable condition, The Telegraph reports that the British Transport Police officer who confronted the attackers was armed with only a baton. BTP said the officer has only been with the force for two years.  He is believed to be in a stable condition and recovering from his injuries in hospital suffering face, head, and leg injuries. BTP chief constable Paul Crowther, who visited the officer in hospital, said he showed “enormous courage in the face of danger”. He said: “Although he is seriously unwell, he was able to recount how he faced the attackers armed only with his baton, outside London Bridge station. “For an officer who only joined us less than two years ago, the bravery he showed was outstanding and makes me extremely proud. “All of us at BTP wish him a swift recovery, and I know he will be touched by the hundreds of messages of support from across the UK and the world. “Our thoughts are with all of those who died or were injured, and their loved ones as they try to come to terms with what happened. ” 15:20 BST  —   UKIP MEP Nigel Farage Slams Sadiq Khan and Theresa May for their responses to terror attack saying: “People want action. ” “I’m afraid we’ve been absolutely hidebound in this country by political correctness,” Mr. Farage said. “I’m afraid that one of those people who simply hasn’t done enough is Theresa May. She was the one who was for six years our home secretary. She was in charge of homeland security. “Today she stood on the steps of Downing Street and said: ‘Enough is enough‘. ” “For the prime minister just to say ‘enough is enough’ that is not going to satisfy people  —   people want action. ” For more on Nigel Farage’s comments, read here. 14:20 BST  —   Prime Minister of Israel responds to news of the London Bridge Terror attack, The prime minister of Israel Binyamin Netanyahu’s office tweeted: “London Bridge will not fall. Together we will vanquish terror. #LondonAttacks” London Bridge will not fall. Together we will vanquish terror. #LondonAttacks,  —   PM of Israel (@IsraeliPM) June 4, 2017,  The note of support comes after Israel’s Foreign Ministry and members of the Knesset on Sunday condemned the “horrific” London terror attacks, with Public Security Minister Gilad Erdan remarking that now there was a “greater understanding” in Britain of Israel’s   history of Palestinian terrorism. 13:40 BST  —   12 Arrests in Barking, London Metropolitan Police have confirmed that officers from the Met’s Counter Terrorism Command have arrested 12 people in Barking, east London, in connection with last night’s incidents in London Bridge and the Borough Market area. Searches of a number of addresses in Barking are continuing. For more on this story read here. 13:00 BST  —   Report  —   first police officer on the scene took on all terrorists until forced to the ground. In serious condition in hospital.  According to Sky News sources, the first police officer on the scene, a rugby player, took on all the terrorists until he was forced to ground. He is reportedly in serious condition in hospital. Sky sources:first police officer on the scene (rugby player) took on all terrorists until he was forced to ground. Serious condition in hosp,  —   Kay Burley (@KayBurley) June 4, 2017,  12:35 BST  —   U. S. President Donald Trump comments on Sadiq Kahn’s statement that Londoners “shouldn’t be alarmed” At least 7 dead and 48 wounded in terror attack and Mayor of London says there is ”no reason to be alarmed!”  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 4, 2017,  London Mayor Sadiq Khan told media earlier on: “Londoners should be aware that there will be additional armed and unarmed police officers on our streets from tonight in order to keep Londoners, and all those visiting out city safe. “I want to reassure all Londoners, and all our visitors, not to be alarmed. Our city remains one of the safest in the world. “London is the greatest city in the world and we stand together in the face of those who seek to harm us and destroy our way of life. “We always have and we always will. Londoners will never be cowed by terrorism. ” 12:30 BST  —   Arrests following raids in Barking, Five people are reportedly being held after armed police raided flats in Barking following last night’s Islamist terror attack near London Bridge. For more from Breitbart London read here. 12:00 BST  —   Man photographed attacker  #BREAKING First photo of one of the suspects in the #LondonAttacks released by BBC  https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Jim Edwards (@Jim_Edwards) June 4, 2017,  Gabrielle Sciotto, who took the photograph, described the image to the BBC who said the suspect appears to have materials strapped to his body which looked like a bomb and is bleeding from his left arm. “I saw three men with this belt with some sort of   explosive on them. “I thought it wasn’t real. It didn’t look real. I don’t know if that was or wasn’t. ” “By the time a couple more police came to the scene, and they surrounded these people and they shot them down. ” Police confirmed that the explosive vests were hoaxes.  11:00 BST  —   Prime Minister Theresa May’s Statement Following Chairing COBRA  —   Britain has become “too tolerant of extremism” vows to tackle “safe spaces” of Islamist extremism.  Prime Minister Theresa May made a statement outside of 10 Downing Street following chairing the meeting of COBRA: Referencing the Westminster terror attack and Manchester attack, Ms. May said: “In terms of planning and execution, the recent attacks are not connected. But we believe we are experiencing a new trend in the threats we face as terrorism breeds terrorism and perpetrators are inspired to attack not only on the basis of carefully constructed plots after years of planning and training and not even of attackers radicalising online, but copying one another. ” “We cannot and must not pretend that things can continue as they are. Things need to change and need to change in four important ways”: 1) Ms. May stated that the attacks are bound together by “the single ideology of Islamist extremism” which she called “a perversion of Islam”. “Defeating this ideology is the greatest challenge of our time. But we cannot defeat it through military intervention alone” or permanent defensive counterterrorism operations. She said it will only be defeated when “people’s minds are turned away” from Islamism and they are “made to understand that our values  …    are superior to anything offered by the preachers of  and supporters of hate”. 2) “Safe spaces” where this ideology is allowed to breed online must be tackled, she said, saying that they need to work with foreign governments to reach “international agreements that regulate cyberspace to prevent the spread of extremism and terrorism planning”. 3) The prime minister also targeted “safe spaces that exist in the real world”. “Yes that means military action to destroy ISIS in Iraq and Syria, but that also means taking action here at home” “Yes that means military action to destroy ISIS in Iraq and Syria, but that also means taking action here at home. ” “There is, to be frank, too much tolerance of extremism in the country. So we need to become far more robust in identifying it and stamping it out across the public sector and across society. “That will require often embarrassing and difficult conversations. But the whole of our country needs to come together to take on this extremism and we need to live our lives not as a series of separted, segregated communities but as one truly United Kingdom. ” 4) Robust counter terrorism strategy: “As the nature of the threat become more complex, fragmented, and hidden, especially online, the strategy needs to keep up. so in light of what we are learning about the changing threat we need to review Britain’s counter terrorism strategy to make sure police and secruity services have all the power they need. And if we need to increase the length of custodial sentences for   ofences, even apparently less serious offences, that is what we will do. ” “It is time to say enough is enough. Everbody must go about their lives as they normally would. ” The prime minister stated that the Conservative and other parties will suspend campaigning for Sunday, but the election will go ahead as planned on Thursday. Enough is enough. Read my response to last night’s brutal terror attack: https:  .   —   Theresa May (@theresa_may) June 4, 2017,  10:40 BST  —   Live police operating in Barking, Sky News reports a block of flats in Barking have been taped off and a police operation is underway. 10:25 BST  —   Theresa May statement on the attack expected Sunday morning, The prime minister has led a meeting of crisis response committee COBRA and will make a statement Sunday morning. I have just led a meeting of COBR in response to the appalling London attack and I will soon be making a statement in Downing Street.  —   Theresa May (@theresa_may) June 4, 2017,  10:00 BST  —   UKIP Leader Paul Nuttall confirms the party will not suspend national campaigning. In a press release released Sunday morning, Mr. Nuttall stated: “With more people murdered on the streets of our capital city last night by Islamist terrorists, it is more important than ever for us to confront this evil with the democratic principles that have made this country what it is. “Our hearts go out to the family and friends of those who lost their lives last night. The courage and quick response of our emergency services have yet again saved countless lives and in the midst of such a tragedy, deserve our respect and admiration. “It is time to start honouring our dead with more than just words. The only guarantee that will come from our choosing to stall the democratic process again will be more attacks it is what these cowards want us to do. “For those of us seeking to serve the people of this country, it is our duty to drive the dialogue on how best to confront and defeat this brand of terrorism. That is what UKIP will be doing today and beyond. Therefore, I refuse to suspend campaigning because this is precisely what the extremists would want us to do. ” The Labour Party, Conservatives, and SNP have confirmed they will be suspending campaigning. Conservatives, Labour, Lib Dems, SNP  Greens suspend their national election campaigns following the London attack https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   BBC News England (@BBCEngland) June 4, 2017,  09:50 BST  —   Parts of London Bridge return to normal, police and cordons remain in place, Activity has resumed on London Bridge Sunday morning with Double Decker buses seen crossing the bridge. However, police cordons remain in place.  Photo by Rachel   London,  Photo by Rachel   London, 09:35 BST  —   Metropolitan Police Commissioner Cressida Dick Confirms Seventh Death, Incident “under control” Metropolitan Police Commissioner Cressida Dick has confirmed that seven members of the public have died in addition to the 3 attackers, 48 people were injured and taken to hospital for treatment. “We believe this incident is under control” but the cordon will remain in place as police need t conduct a thorough search to ensure everyone is accounted for and to make area safe. 7 members of the public died in #LondonAttacks as well as 3 attackers  —   London Met police chief Cressida Dick https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   BBC News (UK) (@BBCNews) June 4, 2017,  “At the moment we believe there are three attackers, and they are dead,” Ms. Dick confirmed to reporters. 09:20 BST  —   Armed Officers at Borough Market Sunday Morning  Armed officers with ballistic shields are currently moving through the Borough Market area carrying out searches. 09:15 BST  —   Metropolitan Police are appealing for images and film of the attack, Anybody who has images or film of the #LondonBridge #BoroughMarket incident please help police by uploading it at https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Terrorism Police UK (@TerrorismPolice) June 4, 2017,  6:25 BST  —   London Ambulance now updates that 48 injured people from the attack were taken to five hospitals, We have taken 48 patients to hospital following the incident at #LondonBridge https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   London Ambulance (@Ldn_Ambulance) June 4, 2017,  5:50 BST  —   Dutch populist leader Geert Wilders: London, Manchester, Berlin, Nice, Paris etc it will all happen again and again until we acknowledge that Islam is the problem and fight back,  —   Geert Wilders (@geertwilderspvv) June 4, 2017,  4:55 BST  —   British Transport Police report one of their officers is seriously injured in the attack, We can confirm a BTP officer was seriously injured as he responded to tonight’s incident at London Bridge  Borough https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   BTP (@BTP) June 4, 2017,  4:35 BST  —   London Ambulance updates patient count from attack to 30, Our latest statement on the #LondonBridge incident. We have taken 30 patients to five hospitals across London https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   London Ambulance (@Ldn_Ambulance) June 4, 2017, 4:05 BST  —   Scotland Yard confirms at least six dead from terror attack, During a press conference, Metropolitan Police Assistant Commissioner Mark Rowley stated that six people were dead and three attackers were shot and killed by police. “You will understand that our knowledge of the incident is still growing but what we understand at the present time is: Full statement here. Breaking News: #London police said that at least nine people, including three attackers, were killed in the attacks late Saturday night. pic. twitter.   —   Fox News (@FoxNews) June 4, 2017,  03:45 BST  —   U. S. President Donald Trump calls UK Prime Minister Theresa May. Statement from the White House: THE WHITE HOUSEOffice of the Press SecretaryFOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEJune 3, 2017, READOUT OF PRESIDENT DONALD J. TRUMP’S CALL WITH PRIME MINISTER THERESA MAY OF THE UNITED KINGDOM, President Donald J. Trump spoke with Prime Minister Theresa May of the United Kingdom today. The President offered his condolences for the brutal terror attacks on June 3 in central London. He praised the heroic response of police and other first responders and offered the full support of the United States Government in investigating and bringing those responsible for these heinous acts to justice. ### 03:05 BST  —   London Ambulance confirms at least 20 patients have been taken to six hospitals across London, Our latest statement about the incident in #LondonBridge. We have taken at least 20 patients to six hospitals across London. pic. twitter.   —   London Ambulance (@Ldn_Ambulance) June 4, 2017,  02:50 BST  —   Photo appears to show a suspect with a canister strapped to him, A photo taken by   photographer Gabriele Sciotto appears to show a man with a canister strapped to his body near the initial terror attack site. London terror attacks: The photographer of this image says it shows the attacker on the ground (Pic: Gabriele Sciotto) pic. twitter.   —   Sky News (@SkyNews) June 4, 2017,  02:30 BST  —   Eyewitness account of stabbing on London Bridge, BBC’s political correspondent Mark Lobel interviews a man who witnessed the stabbing on London Bridge during the attack: Terrifying testimony from stabbing witness Gerard who just spoke to me about what happened #LondonBridge pic. twitter.   —   Mark Lobel (@marklobel) June 4, 2017, 02:00 BST  —   London Mayor Sadiq Khan releases statement, Khan, who said last September that the threat of terror attacks is just “part and parcel of living in a big city,” just released a statement acknowledging Saturday’s attacks were acts of terror: We don’t yet know the full details, but this was a deliberate and cowardly attack on innocent Londoners and visitors to our city enjoying their Saturday night. I condemn it in the strongest possible terms. There is no justification whatsoever for such barbaric acts. His full statement here. 01:25 BST  —   Air Ambulance emergency services, SAS deployed, Emergency services have confirmed an advanced trauma unit from the Air Ambulance has been dispatched to the scene, Our latest statement about #LondonBridge incident. We’ve sent a number of resources to scene  more info will follow https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   London  Ambulance (@Ldn_Ambulance) June 4, 2017,  There is also speculation that the SAS has been deployed. #LondonBridge pic. twitter.   —   David Jack (@DJack_Journo) June 3, 2017,  01:15 BST  —   Telegraph reports assailant shouted “this is for Allah” The Telegraph has reported that an eye witness on London Bridge told the BBC he saw three men stabbing people indiscriminately, shouting “this is for Allah”. He told the paper that he saw a van driving on the pavement with people running out of the way before three men got out. “They literally just started kicking them, punching them, they took out knives. It was a rampage really,” he said, “They headed down towards Southwark Cathedral towards the bar, and starting running at people. “People at the bar started fighting back. then the three of them decided to make their way up to the bridge, “A woman was staring at them and they started stabbing her. “Throughout the whole way across the bridge, there were people littered across bleeding. People were trying to help each other. ” He added he had heard them shouting “this is for Allah” 01:00 BST  —   Reuters reporting witness saw people having their throats cut, Reuters is reporting that a person who was on London Bridge after an incident on Saturday told a Reuters reporter that she saw three people who appeared to have their throats cut. 00:45 BST  —   The incident is ongoing and members of the public are being advised to avoid the London Bridge and Borough Market areas, Pls continue to avoid #LondonBridge #BoroughMarket to allow the emergency services to deal with the ongoing incidents,  —   Metropolitan Police (@metpoliceuk) June 3, 2017,  Marine 2 and Marine 3 are part of the response to the #London Bridge incident. Working with @RNLI lifeboats to evacuate the public.  —   MPSonthewater (@MPSonthewater) June 3, 2017,  00:25 BST  —   Prime Minister to chair COBRA, confirms incident being treated as “potential act of terrorism” reaction from U. S. President Donald Trump, Prime Minister Theresa May will chair a meeting of the crisis response committee COBRA on Sunday morning. She said that the “terrible incident” in London is being treated as a “potential act of terrorism”. Ms. May said: “Following updates from police and security officials, I can fconfirm that the terrible incident in London is being treated as a potential act of terrorism. “This is a fast moving investigation. I want to express my huge gratitude to the police and emergency services who are on the scene. Our thoughts are with those who are caught up in these dreadful events. ” U. S. President Donald J. Trump has voiced his support for the Britain at this time. Whatever the United States can do to help out in London and the U. K. we will be there  —   WE ARE WITH YOU. GOD BLESS!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 3, 2017,  Downing Street: Theresa May ”in contact with officials” US President Donald Trump briefed on #LondonBridge incident https:  .   —   BBC Breaking News (@BBCBreaking) June 3, 2017,  00:15 BST Sunday  —   Vauxhall area cleared, station reopened, Police have confirmed that Vauxhall Station has reopened. Vauxhall: the station has reopened.  —   Victoria line (@victorialine) June 3, 2017,  23:50 BST  —   Met Police advise people to “Run, Hide, Tell” Police have issued safety guidelines for people in the area. Metropolitan Police have confirmed they are responding to incidenst in London Bridge, nearby Borough Market, and Vauxhall. #LondonBridge #Borough #Vauxhall #alert pic. twitter.   —   BTP (@BTP) June 3, 2017,   23:45 BST  —   Met Police confirm reports of stabbings in Borough Market near London Bridge, Metropolitan Police confirmed they are responding to reports of stabbings and shots have been fired.  Officers are now also responding to an incident in the Vauxhall area, south of the Thames. Officers have then responded to reports of stabbings in #BoroughMarket. Armed officers responded and shots have been fired.    —   Metropolitan Police (@metpoliceuk) June 3, 2017,  Officers are now responding to an incident in the #Vauxhall area.    —   Metropolitan Police (@metpoliceuk) June 3, 2017,   23:30 BST  —   Downing Street confirms PM in contact with officials, Downing Street said: “The prime minister is in contact with officials and is being regularly updated on the incident at London Bridge. ” 23:26 BST  —   Met Police confirm they are responding to an incident in nearby Borough Market, Metropolitan Police have confirmed they are also responding to an incident in Borough Market. Armed police are at the scene. As well as #LondonBridge officers have also responsed to an incident in #BoroughMarket. We have armed police at the scenes.  —   Metropolitan Police (@metpoliceuk) June 3, 2017,  London Bridge and Borough stations closed due to ongoing incident. Please avoid area. Updates from @metpoliceuk,  —   BTP (@BTP) June 3, 2017,  Images from the scene also show multiple police vehicles attending.  23:00 BST  —   video footage from inside a nearby restaurant, armed police entering, Video footage from inside a restaurant in the area close to the attack appears to show patrons being advised to get down on the floor should armed police enter, later patrons are advised to get down by armed officers. London Bridge pic. twitter.   —   LIAM (@LiamC0nnell) June 3, 2017,  BREAKING: several London police officers enter bar at London Bridge telling people to get down ##Londonbridge pic. twitter.   —   Footballgossiphq (@footballgossiph) June 3, 2017,  This story is developing  …    