Angels are everywhere in the Muñiz family’s apartment in the Bronx: paintings of angels on the wall, ceramic angels flanking the ancient VCR, angels strumming lyres or blowing little golden trumpets on the bathroom shelves. As José and Zoraida Muñiz and their children have struggled to deal with a   series of trials and setbacks, including cancer, debilitating epilepsy, deep depression and near eviction, it has sometimes seemed as if angels and love were the only forces holding things together. Zoraida’s early life in Puerto Rico was like something from a tropical Dickens novel. She and her siblings and mother built a house by hand after a hurricane ravaged their home and the children’s father withdrew support. Then Zoraida’s grandfather  —   the father of her absent father  —   destroyed the house in a rage. She was barely a teenager when she met José, a Vietnam War veteran. With permission from her uncle, a judge, they were married. She was 14. He was 29. They moved to New York in 1983 and started a new life. He built boilers. She worked in construction, using skills she learned as a child, and in a clothing store. But in 1987, Mr. Muñiz began having violent seizures  —   eight or 10 a day. They did not respond to medication. He could no longer work. She stopped working to take care of him. Still determined to live something like a normal life, they started a family. Their first child, José Jr. had a heart defect. By the time he was 2 he had had six   operations. That’s where the angels came in  —   the first one was a painting, a gift from a cousin.  “When they operated on my son, they told me he was an angel, because he was supposed to die,” Ms. Muñiz, 50, said. “From there I figured that angels are taking care of me and protecting me and my family. ” All the angels are gifts from friends and relatives, or picked up off the street, just like all the furniture in the Muñizes’ overstuffed apartment in a   complex on Westchester Avenue in the Bronx, much of it restored by Ms. Muñiz. “So many people throw away things, so I don’t have to buy,” she said. A second son, Jesus, became epileptic at 3. A girl, Maria, completed the family. In 2007, Mr. Muñiz had what felt like a horrible, stubborn toothache. It turned out to be cancer of the lower jaw. Ms. Muñiz stayed in the room with her husband while he received radiation treatment. “I’m willing to take anything with him,” she said. “I never left him alone, and I never will. ” Radiation did not work. To save Mr. Muñiz’s life, surgeons removed his tongue and his lower jaw and cut a hole through his esophagus. Disfigured, depressed and unable to speak, he can consume nothing thicker than milk and needs   care. This is the household where the Muñiz children grew up. “We’ve been through every craziness,” said José Jr. 24, who has suffered depression so severe that he dropped out of college and confined himself to the apartment, “every up and down. ” For years at a time, the family held on, seemingly by a thread. Over the summer, the younger son, Jesus, 22, got a   job at a Zaro’s Bakery in Manhattan’s financial district. Because the family’s rent is tied to income, the rent tripled in August, to about $770 a month from $245. But Jesus had school bills to pay, and the family paid some of the funeral expenses for José Sr. ’s mother, who died over the summer, and things began to unravel. They fell behind on the rent and utilities. Food was often scarce. The family regularly skipped meals. It was around this time that Ms. Muñiz got in touch with Catholic Charities Archdiocese of New York, one of the eight organizations supported by The New York Times’s Neediest Cases Fund. It covered their back rent, got them warm coats and blankets and helped them apply for food stamps for the first time. And with $600 from the Neediest Cases Fund, the family paid its electric bill. Things are looking up in some ways. Jesus is returning to college, where he is on a   track and wants to be a paramedic. Maria graduated in December from a   nursing program. Thinking of her father and his illness, she wants to be an oncologist. José Jr. was just accepted to the New York Film Academy’s photography program. But José Sr. continues to battle cancer. Zoraida is severely depressed. What keeps her going? she was asked. She gestured toward her family, sitting beside her beneath the painted angels. “They give me my strength, even if I have times I collapse,” she said. José Jr. agreed. “I use my parents and siblings as my motivation,” he said. “We’re all there for each other,” Ms. Muñiz said.