Americans for Limited Government President Rick Manning wants Congress to help President Trump get rid of “rogue bureaucrats [who] are not serving the American people” by “cutting the personnel budgets of   civilian departments and agencies, reducing the enacted   equivalent number for each department, agency and office by 10 to 20 percent reduction in the workforce on a       basis,” according to a statement released on Friday. [“By now it should be abundantly clear to the Trump administration that there are Obama administration holdovers in the 1. 3 million   civilian federal workforce who have no other intention than to politically damage the White House,” Manning said.  Breitbart News has reported extensively on many ways federal bureaucrats who oppose President Trump’s policies are sabotaging his agenda. “That sabotage comes in several forms, from secretly circulating emails among fellow ideologically committed members of the federal bureaucracy plotting strategy, to working behind the scenes with Democratic legislators to create     bureaucratic actions, to leaking confidential documents to the press,” as Breitbart News reported earlier this month. A number of federal bureaucrats are expanding the means by which they are resisting the policies of President Trump. On Tuesday, FederalNewsRadio. com in Washington, D. C. part of the Hubbard Radio empire owned by Minnesota billionaire Stanley Hubbard, reported that “Twitter [has become] an outlet of resistance [to the Trump agenda and] information for federal employees. ” When a former employee of Badlands National Park took over the park’s official Twitter account to tweet climate change facts in direct defiance of the Trump administration, they couldn’t have known that they were starting a movement. Almost one month later, more than 80 accounts claiming to represent various federal organizations and employees, many of them national parks, exist in opposition to the Trump administration and its policies. “The goals and methods of these accounts vary widely. Some stick to spreading scientific facts and research performed by their agencies, especially regarding climate change,” David Thornton, FederalNewsRadio. com’s digital editor reported. “Others, lacking specific actions or nominees to oppose, share memes and ridicule the President, his staff and lawmakers to maintain engagement,” Thornton notes: And some, like Alt Immigration, [using this Twitter address: ””>reported earlier this week, the Acting Director of United States Citizenship and Immigration Services [USCIS] at the Department of Homeland Security, Lori Scialabba, made waves earlier this month when she released an internal memo countermanding President Trump’s executive order temporarily blocking the issuance of visas to citizens of seven Middle Eastern countries and temporarily banning the arrival of refugees. Scialabba released her internal memo one day before Federal District Judge James Robert issued a temporary restraining order halting President Trump’s executive order. “Sources tell Breitbart News that the Department of Homeland Security, and in particular U. S. Citizenship and Immigration Services [USCIS] is a hotbed of career open borders ideologues, many of whom intend to directly and indirectly subvert President Trump’s agenda,” as Breitbart News reported: “If you go down the list of current management at USCIS, probably 80 percent are     ideologues,” a source, who has worked at the Department of Homeland Security for more than a decade and supports President Trump’s agenda, tells Breitbart News. “USCIS probably has the most violent   people in the United States. These are in the management. These do not believe in borders. I know them personally,” the source says. “The whole reason the District of Columbia was created without voting rights or representation was so that those who work for the federal government would not wield political power. They are supposed to be neutral. Working for the government is a privilege, not a right, and it’s time that President Trump remind them by removing Obama administration hires, particularly if there is no other way to root out subversive employees,” Manning said in his statement: Part of the problem is former President Obama changed civil service rules to make it easier to hire federal employees. Trump has solved that by initiating his hiring freeze. But federal rules also make it extremely difficult to fire civil servants. It is a process that can take up to two years, even when there is cause. That said, problem employees who, say, don’t show up for work should be dealt with through this process immediately. In addition to “reducing the enacted   equivalent number for each department, agency and office by 10 to 20 percent reduction in the workforce,” Manning wants Congress to take two additional steps: “Taken together, a comprehensive civil service reform can only possibly be accomplished in the context of the upcoming continuing resolution and budget process, by simply not appropriating monies for the same number of   equivalent employees as last year, and defunding preferences for rehiring previously laid off personnel. Not only can’t Trump do it alone, Congress should step up to the plate exercising their Article I powers and rein in this rogue administrative state,” Manning concluded in his statement.