Good morning. (Want to get California Today by email? Here’s the  .) More than 1, 300 lives are cut short each year in the Los Angeles area because of air pollution, scientists say. Now, after years of work, regulators are getting ready to adopt their most substantial plan in more than a decade to do something about it. The proposal is outlined in   pages from the South Coast Air Quality Management District, whose jurisdiction extends across Los Angeles, Orange, Riverside and San Bernardino Counties. Not surprisingly, it has set off debate, as critics have called the plan too lenient on industry. “California has made clear that it intends to be a leader on environmental issues,” said Angela Johnson Meszaros, a staff attorney with Earthjustice, an environmental law group. “And here we’ve got the Los Angeles air agency not doing all that it can. ” All sides recognize that industries under the agency’s regulatory power  —   including refineries, ports and warehouses  —   must adopt cleaner technologies. The agreement breaks down over how to get there. The draft blueprint would adopt some tougher emissions rules. But it also calls for a carrot approach: roughly $15 billion in handouts over the next 15 years to encourage polluters to clean up. Some community leaders have portrayed the incentives  —   which would surely involve tax increases  —   as a form of corporate welfare at the expense of   families. But supporters of the plan have argued that they are needed to avoid stifling business. Smaller operators, for example, may not be able to afford a new, cleaner truck. “Obviously you can’t make everybody happy,” said Philip M. Fine, deputy executive officer for the air district. “But we think we’ve developed a sensible, comprehensive and regulatory approach. ” At a public meeting last Friday, the air agency’s board was supposed to vote on a final version of the plan. Hundreds of people showed up, filling overflow rooms. Testimony included stories of the personal toll that asthma is taking on young Californians. Business leaders warned of job losses if the plan were amended to add new rules. In the end, the board postponed the vote, citing the unexpected absence of a member. They’ll try again next month. (Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.) • “California in many ways is out of control,” President Trump said in an interview with Bill O’Reilly. [Sacramento Bee] • Mr. Trump’s refugee actions have reverberated in San Diego, a longtime hub for the nation’s new arrivals. [San Diego  ] • In a dorm at University of California, Merced, undocumented students bond over their hopes and fears. [The New York Times] • Milo Yiannopoulos, whose speech at U. C. Berkeley was canceled after protests, said he planned to try again. [Daily Californian] • Californians are using less electricity. Some power plants have even shut down. So why do state officials keep approving new ones? [Los Angeles Times] • The Anaheim White House restaurant is known for helping needy children. Now, after it was damaged by fire, donations are pouring in. [Orange County Register] • Marta Becket died at 92. A New York ballerina and Broadway dancer, she created a cultural institution in the Mojave Desert. [The New York Times] • Airbnb, one of the most aggressive corporate critics of Mr. Trump’s immigration policy, took its opposition to the Super Bowl. [The New York Times] • Tech companies say the   program is needed to find highly skilled employees. But it has also been used to cut jobs. [The New York Times] • Mavericks, a top   surfing event, was canceled after organizers filed for bankruptcy. [The New York Times] • In Bel Air, the most expensive house in the nation is on the market for $250 million, but one is rising nearby that may cost half a billion. [The New York Times] • “Building the Wall,” a response to the Trump era, took just a week to write. A Los Angeles theater will mount the play next month. [The New York Times] • “This Is Us” is the biggest hit for the broadcast networks since “Empire. ” [The New York Times] • Photos: Tom Brady during his days as a high school quarterback in San Mateo. [NBC Bay Area] • The ATT Pebble Beach   kicks off Thursday. Among the pros: Jordan Spieth, Dustin Johnson and the No.   Jason Day. Bill Murray will join the celebrity field. • The Imperial Valley town of Holtville, the   carrot capital of the world, holds its 70th annual Carrot Festival all week. The theme: “We dig carrots. ” • On Saturday, San Francisco hosts its annual Chinese New Year parade. The nighttime celebration will usher in the Year of the Rooster with floats and firecrackers. • The Grammy Awards are Sunday. An   musical tribute to Prince is expected to be among the memorable moments. McWay Falls is among the most photographed of Big Sur’s vistas. For obvious reason  —   the falls tumble 80 feet off a granite cliff into an almost impossibly beautiful cove. Hajer Dlame, 26, a reader from the Bay Area, shared a photo she snapped at sunset while visiting with her mother last month. Alas, the beach itself, part of a state park, is strictly off limits. Visitors are confined to a nearby trail. The upside is McWay Cove has remained an unspoiled slice of the California coast. Want to submit a photo for possible publication? You can do it here. California Today goes live at 6 a. m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes. com. The California Today columnist, Mike McPhate, is a   Californian  —   born outside Sacramento and raised in San Juan Capistrano. He lives in Davis. Follow him on Twitter. California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and attended U. C. Berkeley.