Driving down a tight mountain road in Jarabacoa, a town in the middle of the Dominican Republic, Oscar Pedro Duran Abreu saw the oncoming Jeep weaving in the other lane before it hit him. He remembers trying to swerve. He remembers the Jeep slamming into his side door, pushing his car into the safety blocks on the side of the road, saving him from a steep fall down the mountainside. “And I don’t remember anything else,” he said of that day in September 2010. Mr. Duran learned later that the other driver had been drunk and that his Jeep had flipped. The four passengers in the Jeep were injured, but the driver, unharmed, pushed his way out of the vehicle and fled. “Leaving me for dead,” Mr. Duran said. Unconscious, Mr. Duran was taken to a nearby hospital, where he was in a coma for 29 days. Six years later, seated at a table with his children, Jose and Karina Duran, and speaking through an interpreter, Mr. Duran leaned back in a chair at his son’s school and recalled emerging from the coma with his jaw wired shut. He looked around and thought, “What happened?” The accident left him with injuries to his neck, spinal cord and knee, as well as a broken jaw, extensive memory loss and nerve damage causing numbness in his face. The crash also knocked out eight teeth, which he has not been able to afford to replace. He spent the next 92 days on bed rest. Doctors placed metal plates in his neck and left knee, but he is still unable to bend the knee or kneel and has trouble walking. “Since the accident, my closest friend has been pain,” he said. The sixth of 11 children, Mr. Duran grew up on a farm in Jarabacoa, where his family grew yucca and sweet potatoes, among other crops, until he was 18. With only a   education, he left for Santo Domingo, the capital, working as a shoe shiner and a waiter, and held various jobs in a supermarket, a casino and a hospital. He later began a   career in the national police force, working as a homicide investigator in Jarabacoa until his accident. But his extensive injuries kept him from returning to the national police. Then, in 2012, the   relationship with the mother of his children fell apart. She took the children to live with her, but Mr. Duran eventually had them come live with him. To get them out of the Dominican Republic, his mother, a permanent resident of the United States who often stayed with her children in New York, referred him for a residential visa. He joined the family in New York in July 2013, fulfilling his mother’s wish to have all of her children together in the United States. She returned to the Dominican Republic after settling him in America, and died six months later. Unable to work because of his injuries, Mr. Duran struggled to find his way in a new country. He lived with siblings in Brooklyn for a year but was unable to contribute to the family’s income. So in spring 2014, he found himself homeless with his children in Sunset Park, Brooklyn. “It was cold,” Jose, now 12, recalled of the two nights they spent sleeping on a park bench. Mr. Duran added: “Life has kicked me down. But I have to go forward  —   for them. ” He smiled at his children, who sat quietly on each side of him. Mr. Duran found them a studio at a city shelter on East 178th Street in the Bronx. His request for two rooms  —   one for his daughter, 10, for privacy  —   was later granted. The family does not pay rent, but with Mr. Duran unable to work, it struggles to make ends meet. In March 2016, Mr. Duran briefly worked as a cabdriver. However, the car payments and maintenance, coupled with the pain from his knee injury, soon became too much, and he quit the service. Now the family receives $205 a month in food stamps. Jose, a seventh grader at C. S. 211, a bilingual magnet school in the Bronx, is working to become fluent in English. His sister is already fluent. The   program is run by the Children’s Aid Society, one of the eight organizations supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. In April,   program staff members noticed that Jose was wearing the same   clothes every day. The Children’s Aid Society provided the family with $375 in gift cards to Payless, Old Navy and Modell’s Sporting Goods to buy new school clothes and shoes for the children. Despite the family’s struggles, Mr. Duran said he did not let poverty bother him. He spoke reverently of his father, Pedro Lucia Duran, a forest ranger and village confidant, whom he called “a simple man, an honorable man. ” He added: “There’s no man like my father. He raised 11 children to be serious and honest, and he did it as a poor man. ” For that reason, he also does not seek out riches. “My father always said, ‘In America, the president eats lobster,’” he recalled with a laugh. “‘But in the Dominican Republic, the poor eat lobster. ’” Mr. Duran said he wanted only to raise his own children in the same manner as his father. While in the United States, he hopes his children can work toward their own dreams. Karina, a fifth grader, enjoys painting and drawing and would like to become a pop star, she said with a shy smile. Jose  —   who “really can draw,” according to his sister  —   is fascinated by space, but has no interest in becoming an astronaut. He wants to build the spaceships instead. “And my American dream?” Mr. Duran said. “My dream is that if I die today, my children will be able to do what they want and to remain humble and polite. ” As for Mr. Duran, 52, he worries that he is a burden on a social assistance system that, after a career in the Dominican Republic, he is unable to contribute to here. He would like to return to his country one day, he said, adding that he was happy there. But he fears that politics, drugs and guns have broken an otherwise beautiful nation. “America is the best there is,” he said. “I’m thankful to this country for taking me and my children in. But despite all these problems in my country, if I could, I’d still go back. ”