WASHINGTON  —   Betsy DeVos, a wealthy Republican donor with almost no experience in public education, was confirmed by the Senate as the nation’s education secretary on Tuesday, but only with the help of a historic tiebreaking vote from Vice President Mike Pence after weeks of protests and two defections within her own party. The    vote capped an   vigil on the Senate floor, where, one by one, Democrats denounced Ms. DeVos to a mostly empty chamber. But they did not get a third Republican defection that would have stopped Ms. DeVos  —   a billionaire who has devoted much of her life to promoting charter schools and vouchers  —   from becoming the steward of the nation’s nearly 100, 000 public schools. It was the first time a vice president has been summoned to the Capitol to break a tie on a cabinet nomination. Senator Al Franken, Democrat of Minnesota, demanded before the vote that Republicans explain how they could support Ms. DeVos. “If we cannot set aside party loyalty long enough to perform the essential duty of vetting the president’s nominees, what are we even doing here?” Mr. Franken asked. The two Republicans who voted against the nominee, Senators Susan Collins of Maine and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, said Ms. DeVos was unqualified because of a lack of familiarity with public schools and with laws meant to protect students. “I have serious concerns about a nominee to be secretary of education who has been so involved in one side of the equation, so immersed in the push for vouchers, that she may be unaware of what actually is successful within the public schools, and also what is broken and how to fix them,” Ms. Murkowski said last week when the two announced their opposition. Ms. Murkowski also said she had been influenced by thousands of messages she had received urging her to reject the nomination. For many educators, Ms. DeVos’s support for charter schools and vouchers  —   which allow students to use taxpayer dollars to pay tuition at private, religious and   schools  —   reflected a deep disconnect from public schools. Neither Ms. DeVos nor any of her children attended a public school. Most Republicans described Ms. DeVos as committed to what is best for children. In a fiery speech moments before the vote, Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee and a former education secretary himself, criticized his Democratic colleagues for opposing Ms. DeVos, he said, simply because she was nominated by a Republican president. “She led the most effective public school reform movement over the last few years,” he said. Mr. Alexander, the chairman of the committee that approved Ms. DeVos’s nomination last week in a   split, said she had been “at the forefront” of education overhaul for decades. By midday Tuesday, as the vote in the Senate deadlocked at 50 to 50, Mr. Pence, a former member of the House, took the gavel and at 12:29 p. m. declared his vote for Ms. DeVos. In a procedural quirk, a confirmation vote on Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama for attorney general was scheduled after that of Ms. DeVos so he could vote “yes” before leaving the Senate, securing Republicans a decisive vote. Raised in a wealthy family, Ms. DeVos, who married into the Amway fortune, has a web of financial investments, has also raised alarm among critics who worried about the many opportunities for conflicts of interest. She was the first of Mr. Trump’s nominees not to complete an ethics review before appearing before a Senate panel. She filed her ethics paperwork on Jan. 19, two days after her confirmation hearing. Teachers’ unions and even some charter organizations had protested Ms. DeVos’s nomination across the country. Senator Patty Murray of Washington, the top Democrat on the committee that approved Ms. DeVos  —   and a former educator herself  —   urged disheartened advocates on Tuesday morning before the vote not to think of their efforts as a waste. “It’s made an impact here and made a difference,” she said. “And I think it’s woken each of us up in this country to what we value and what we want. ” Shortly after Ms. DeVos’s confirmation, Randi Weingarten, the president of the American Federation of Teachers, a union that protested the nomination, said the public would now have to “serve as a check and balance” to her policies and be “fierce fighters on behalf of children. ” “It’s telling that even when Trump had full control of the legislative and executive branches, he could only get DeVos confirmed by an unprecedented tiebreaking vote by his vice president,” Ms. Weingarten said. “That’s because DeVos shows an antipathy for public schools, a   embrace of private,   alternatives and a lack of basic understanding of what children need to succeed in school. ” David E. Kirkland, an education professor at New York University who has studied Ms. DeVos’s impact in Michigan, said he feared she could badly hurt public education and pull resources out of schools in need of federal funding. “Her extensive conflicts of interest and record of diverting money away from vulnerable students and into the pockets of the rich make DeVos completely unfit for the position she was just confirmed to,” he said. Ms. DeVos has focused on expanding parental choice in education and on embracing charter schools and vouchers. Her ideology was a good fit for Mr. Trump’s education platform during the campaign, which called for a $20 billion voucher initiative aimed at   children. But freeing such an enormous sum would most likely require the reallocation of federal education money, as well as a realignment of congressional priorities. Vouchers were not part of a sweeping education overhaul passed in 2015, and lawmakers from rural areas, where schools tend to be farther apart, are particularly wary of such initiatives. The Trump administration could potentially advance a more limited voucher program and seek tax credits for private school tuition or home schooling costs. Ms. DeVos has also indicated that she would dismantle other pieces of the Obama administration’s legacy, potentially including a rule that denies federal student aid money to   colleges whose graduates struggle to get jobs, as well as an aggressive effort to investigate and adjudicate campus sexual assault claims. Ms. DeVos’s critics said they would continue to fight her as she serves. Some vowed to demonstrate at her appearances at forums and schools and to seek candidates friendly to their view to run for local office. Lily Eskelsen García, the president of the National Education Association, said her union would tap into the vast database of advocates it had built during Ms. DeVos’s confirmation process to help keep her in check. “As soon as she does something alarming, it will be known, it will be seen,” she said. “She won’t be able to hide. ” Mr. Trump’s choice of Ms. DeVos, known for her   lobbying efforts to expand charter schools in Michigan  —   an experiment that even charter school supporters now criticize  —   to lead the Education Department presented senators with a multitude of potential pitfalls. Her background as a prolific    who has donated about $200 million over the years to Republican causes and candidates  —   including some senators, as has been the case for previous presidential nominees  —   came under scrutiny. Democrats have also expressed concern about her family’s contributions to groups that support   conversion therapy for gay people and her past statements that government “sucks” and that public schools are a “dead end. ” Opponents have also focused on the poor performance of charter schools in Detroit, which she championed. Senators and education advocates from both sides of the aisle also expressed concern after Ms. DeVos, during her Jan. 17 confirmation hearing, confused core responsibilities of the department. In one notable exchange that spread across the internet, Senator Tim Kaine, Democrat of Virginia, asked Ms. DeVos whether all schools that receive public money should have to follow the Individuals With Disabilities Education Act, the landmark 1975 civil rights legislation. Under that federal law, states and school districts are required to provide special education services to children with disabilities. Ms. DeVos said the issue was “best left to the states. ” In a bizarre moment that made her the butt of   TV jokes, Ms. DeVos also suggested that states should decide whether to allow guns in schools, citing in part concerns about protection from grizzly bears in Wyoming. “I think probably there, I would imagine there is probably a gun in a school to protect from potential grizzlies,” she said. Before the vote Tuesday, Mr. Franken said, “It was the most embarrassing confirmation hearing that I have ever seen. ” In a final push that included demonstrations around the country, constituents and advocates swamped Senate offices with calls, so inundating the Capitol switchboard that it disrupted the Senate’s voice mail system.