We have no intention to allow the   activities of former President Obama’s administration to fade into the sunset now that he is out of office. Particularly egregious was his use of the might of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to target groups that disagreed with his political views. [And   at the IRS continues.  Last week, Judicial Watch reported that the agency informed the U. S. District Court that it located “an additional 6, 924 documents of potentially responsive records” relating to our 2015 Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) lawsuit regarding the Obama IRS targeting scandal. The lawsuit at issue sought records about the IRS selection of individuals and organizations for audits based upon applications requesting   tax status filed by Tea Party and other 501( c)(4)   organizations (Judicial Watch v. Internal Revenue Service (No. 1:  )). These newly identified records are presumably not the records contained in the   “Congressional Database,” which the IRS created in 2013 to house records responsive to congressional inquiries into the IRS scandal. The IRS informed JW Monday that it is producing an additional 694 pages of documents and expects to produce an additional batch by March 24, 2017.  However, at this time, the IRS still has not provided an estimate regarding when it will complete its review of the potentially responsive documents. The corruption at the IRS is astounding. Our attorneys knew that there were more records to be searched, but the Obama IRS ignored this issue for years. Remember that in July 2015, we released Obama IRS documents confirming that the agency used donor lists of   organizations to target those donors for audits. The documents also show that IRS officials specifically highlighted how the U. S. Chamber of Commerce may come under “high scrutiny” from the IRS. In September 2014, another JW FOIA lawsuit forced the release of documents detailing that the IRS sought, obtained, and maintained the names of donors to tea party and other conservative groups. IRS officials acknowledged in these documents that “such information was not needed. ” The documents also show that the donor names were being used for a “secret research project. ” The Obama IRS scandal continues, and President Trump needs to clean house at the IRS as quickly as possible. ###