MILO’s upcoming book DANGEROUS has jumped to the number one bestseller spot on Amazon, months before the book is even released. [The $250, 000 book deal with publisher Simon  Schuster led to a Twitter storm yesterday that saw “Milo” become the number one trending topic on the site as leftists expressed their outrage over MILO’s success.  Figures such as comedienne Sarah Silverman, ThinkProgress editor Judd Legum, and various other   commentariat condemned the deal, accusing Simon  Schuster of giving a platform to someone they don’t agree with, even falsely describing Milo as a “white nationalist. ” The guy has freedom of speech but to fund him  give him a platform tells me a LOT about @simonschuster YUCK AND BOO AND GROSS https:  .   —   Sarah Silverman (@SarahKSilverman) December 29, 2016,  Things supporting white nationalism can get you (2016): 1. A 250K book deal, 2. A job as Chief White House Strategist,  —   Judd Legum (@JuddLegum) December 29, 2016,  News of the deal even led the Chicago Review of Books to announce they would not be reviewing a single book published by Simon  Schuster in 2017, describing the deal as a “disgusting validation of hate. ” In response to this disgusting validation of hate, we will not cover a single @simonschuster book in 2017. https:  .   —   Chicago Rev of Books (@bookschicago) December 29, 2016,  The book, DANGEROUS, is now first on Amazon’s overall list of bestsellers, passing the autobiography of Star Wars actress Carrie Fisher, who died on Tuesday. Speaking on Breitbart News Daily earlier, MILO said that all the lies propagated by progressive outlets had “one totally predictable, inevitable, irresistible conclusion. I am now at number two on the Amazon best seller charts. ” “It has propelled my book to the top of the charts and they only have themselves to blame for this, these people never ever learn. So as ever I say thank you to the hysterical progressive left for doing better marketing than we could ever afford to buy for ourselves,” he claimed.  DANGEROUS is available to   now via Amazon, in hardcover and Kindle editions. And yes, MILO is reading the audiobook version himself!  This story has been updated as DANGEROUS has now moved into the number one spot on Amazon’s bestseller list. You can follow Ben Kew on Facebook, on Twitter at @ben_kew, or email him at bkew@breitbart. com