Second of Four Parts  …      The Republicans Face Flak, The fate of Obamacare dominates the news —  again.  Eight years ago,   Republicans and Tea Partiers were on the offensive.  Today, it’s   Democrats, perhaps joined by “astroturf” activists, on the offense. In the first installment of this series, we looked at the hot political issue of pharma drug prices.  Now we’ll look at an even hotter political issue, the fate of Obamacare —  and we’ll also see how it ties into the question of pharma drugs. As Republicans grapple with Obamacare, the Main Stream Media headlines are, well, daunting.  For example:  My worry now is that many people are talking about a partial repeal of Obamacare.  If you only repeal part of it and you leave some sort of Obamacare light, which some are talking about, my fear is the situation actually gets worse. The problem is that if you get it done, you own the entire system of American medicine.  . . . If you replace, you are going to have to redo all of American medicine all over again, and then you become responsible. . . .  So if something goes wrong in anybody’s life —  denied coverage, lousy coverage, no available doctor, premiums increasing, whatever it is —  whether or not it is caused by the replacement bill, you will be responsible for it and blamed.  In the meantime, the Democrats and the left are, indeed, turning up the heat. So should Republicans be worried?  Some observers say yes.   On February 14, Jim VandeHei and David Nather, writing for the buzzy Beltway publication Axios, observed that some 147 million Americans benefit from   health programs, such as Medicare, Medicaid, and VA benefits.  The Democratic strategy, they added, is to scare all these beneficiaries about Obamacare repeal.  That is, lump them all together and message them so that they all feel threatened.  Will it work?  We’ll have to wait to find out, of course, but here’s how the Axios scribblers see it in the meantime:  This year’s version of “government takeover” is “throwing 20 million people off of health insurance. ”  Democrats have been throwing that line around, even though Republicans are trying to find a replacement plan that covers people in other ways. (Their problem: They can’t guarantee it will cover all 20 million.) Continuing, the two write:  Democrats in Congress are under direct orders from party leaders to crank up their own protests, to build on the loud and angry demonstrations at Republican town halls.  And there is every reason to believe they will be highly effective.  How do we know? Because Republicans exploited the same fears, energy and trends to do unto Democrats as Democrats are about to do unto them.  [emphasis added]  Again, no one is an   oracle, but just on February 21, in the early days of Resistance Recess, came some indicators.  One was this New York Times headline, surveying the activist activity surrounding Republican lawmakers’ meetings in Iowa and around the country: “Republicans Return to Town Halls, and Protesters Follow. ”  And this, from Politico: “This time, [Sen. Chuck] Grassley hears   voices: The Iowa senator’s 2009 town halls helped kill bipartisanship for the health law. Now, the crowds worry about repeal. ” Once again we might ask: Is all this noise simply journalistic hype?    We’ll have a better handle on that question this spring, when Georgians go to the polls to fill the vacancy in the 6th Congressional district left by the departure of Tom Price, now Secretary of Health and Human Services.  Price himself handily won   to the House last year, but Trump won the district by just a single percentage point.  And so, of course, the Democrats will seek to make the voting a referendum on Trump, not Price.   The balloting takes place on April 18, and, if needed, a runoff will be held on June 20.  In the meantime, we can observe that special elections are typically   affairs, with the advantage going to the side that can bring out the most “mad as hell” voters.  So Peach State Republicans will have to get themselves energized to keep the seat.    Moreover, looking beyond that special election, we can see that the precise details of the Republicans’    legislation will be vital to their fortunes in the 2018 midterms.  So if we recall Rep. Sensenbrenner’s jigsaw puzzle analogy, we know that each tiny detail of the GOP plan will be critical.   We might further observe that it’s the American middle class that finds itself right smack in the middle of the Obamacare fight.  And why is that?  It’s because the rich and the    have all the insurance, and the money, that they need.  And the poor already have Medicaid and charity.  So that leaves the middle class at the mercy of the   tides.   Veteran health observer Robert Laszewski, a frequent critic of Obamacare, offers these words of warning to the GOP and, in particular, to the Trump coalition:   If you take Obamacare as it looks right now, [about half of enrollees] don’t get a subsidy because their incomes are too high. They make $90, 000 or $100, 000 a year but are in the individual market.  These tend to be Trump supporters. So if [the administration’s forthcoming legislation] further destabilizes this thing and there are     rate increases, he’ll be screwing his own people.