Liberal   Tom “Rhymes With Liar” Steyer has been ranting on Twitter about Donald Trump and the Russians. [Here’s his latest smear job:  Is there anyone in this Administration who did not have contact with the Russians? #Trumprussia,  —   Tom Steyer (@TomSteyer) March 2, 2017,  In the late 1990s and early 2000s Farallon was involved in illicit attempts to capitalize on the economic liberalization of the former Soviet Union country. The U. S. Agency of International Development (USAID) formed an agreement with Harvard University’s Institute of International Development (HIID) in the   to guide the former Soviet Union country towards a market economy. Harvard economist Andrei Shleifer and Jonathan Hay, a top HIID advisor, were the two officials charged with spearheading the project. Shleifer and Hay advised the Russian government on the privatization of more than 200, 000 corporations, the issuance of government debt, and the construction of financial institutions to integrate the nation into the global economy. The two HIID officials were privy to vast inside knowledge of the restructuring of the Russian economy. The U. S. government would later charge them both with using that knowledge to enrich themselves, in violation of USAID    agreements. Harvard would eventually shutter the HIID following the scandal. Farallon provided the investment vehicle for a number of those schemes and was also the target of legal action by the U. S. government for its role. Steyer’s subsequent embrace of all things environmental is widely seen by those familiar with his modus operandi as a way of cynically greenwashing his murky fossil fuel past, while simultaneously leaping aboard the lucrative “clean energy” gravy train. It also happens to align with the interests of his Russian pals. Russia is a petro economy highly reliant on its oil and gas revenues. As we learned from Wikileak documents of secret meetings held by Hillary Clinton,   businesses have reportedly funneled millions to   organisations in the US in order to protect its business interests. A U. S. Senate Environment and Public Works Committee report in 2014 exposed the Sea Change Foundation for its major funding from Klein Ltd, a   shell corporation run by executives with strong ties to longtime Putin friend Leonid Reiman, Russia’s   oil giant Rosneft and Russian energy investment groups including Firebird New Russia Fund and Vimpelcom Ltd. Klein Ltd. has reportedly funneled $23 million to Sea Change. In the period 1997 to 2015, Sea Change donated more than $64. 8 million to the Energy Foundation, a “ ” financing organization to which Steyer’s Tomkat Charitable Trust donated $4, 150, 000. Th Energy Foundation has disbursed to other   groups, including the Blue Green Alliance Foundation, Environmental Defense Fund, the Rockefeller Family Fund and many others.  If Tom Steyer really now feels so very strongly about the evils of the Russians, maybe he should consider giving away the $1. 5 billion fortune he made from sucking up to them. This post has been updated since publication. CORRECTION: A previous version of the article incorrectly stated “Klein Ltd. in 2011 funneled more than $43 million to   groups. ” 