Fairies can be so fickle. One night, all you want to do is break a spell. The next, with ice in your veins and a malicious flourish, you put a curse into action. On Thursday, Sara Mearns, the glamorous New York City Ballet principal, made an unlikely debut: the evil Fairy Carabosse in “The Sleeping Beauty. ” Her usual role, which she performed Wednesday, is the Lilac Fairy, Princess Aurora’s shimmering protector who counteracts Carabosse’s curse of death. Ms. Mearns, 31, is no polite ballerina, but an    dancer who reacts on the spot through her deep connection with music. Speaking twice in her dressing room on Thursday  —   once during intermission and later after her brief, ferocious appearance in the second act  —   Ms. Mearns reflected on the two roles. “Carabosse is like spitfire  —   short and sweet,” she said. “With the Lilac Fairy, I feel very empowered. You’re sort of in charge of the whole extravaganza. You’re always there. ” After a parting hug so she could take her bow  —   “Don’t get caught in the wing,” she said, referring not to the stage but to the appendage on her glittering black dress  —   she headed back out. For the record, the crowd roared. Ms. Mearns grinned with delight. Here are edited excerpts from the conversation. Who did you model Carabosse on?  I wanted her to be the Maleficent Disney [animated] version where she just stands there. She’s actually somewhat nice and doesn’t scream in the beginning. Peter [Martins, the ballet master in chief] told me: “Carabosse is just as beautiful as the Lilac Fairy. You should be above it all. But what’s different is that your soul is evil. ” Your rage seemed to bubble up inside of you. Is that what it felt like?  Yes. I actually didn’t think that was going to happen! When I’ve seen people do that, I’ve been like, there’s no way that I could get myself to do that. I would feel so stupid. And then when I got onstage, there was no one standing in front of me. I was just like, oh my God, this feels right. What did you not want Carabosse to be? I didn’t want to come out screaming like a crazy person. I feel like I have a really different approach. The music makes you want to go there because it’s so powerful  —   it makes you want to scream. The costume does it. You just standing there already does it. You just have to rein it in. It was hard, but once I really committed to the way I was going to do it, I felt comfortable. Was the experience what you thought it would be like?  Yes and no. I was waiting for this thrill of being evil onstage. I was more nervous than I thought I would be. I don’t think I’ve actually done a character role that doesn’t require dancing. There was such a different nervousness, such a different placement of your feet and your stance. Lilac Fairy is so much a part of me that I can grab it at a moment’s notice, but Carabosse is so much deeper and harder to find that it took everything out of me. I actually get more tired doing this because my whole body is so tense. You can’t hide behind your dancing, which is your comfort zone. Were you dancing with your hands?  Yes. The first time I had used the nails was in the stage rehearsal, and I saw how much you can do because your fingers are much longer than they normally are. I came up with this thing that I was doing on my chest. [She drummed her fingers slowly.] That part made me laugh.  I came up with it in the shower this morning. I felt like my hands were dancing instead of my feet. Your nails are scary. What are they? They’re plastic fingers, and we have to tape them on. In the dress rehearsal, I lost two nails when I pulled off [the master of ceremonies] Catalabutte’s wig because I didn’t tape them right. I can’t really feel my fingertips right now because they’re so tight, but it’s good. They won’t fall off. Does Carabosse produce a different kind of adrenaline than the Lilac Fairy?  Yes. Dancing adrenaline is excitement  —   it’s like, I can’t wait to do those steps, I can’t wait to have that feeling. This is deeper. It’s a   thing happening. You transform your soul to a dark place. You’re not really happy when you come offstage. I couldn’t tell if you were annoyed because you had to do an interview, or if you were still in character.  [Laughs.] No. I’m still so mad! When you come off, you’re not like, I did such a great job. You’re simmering. With Carabosse, you can really go for it. You can scare people, throw people, just do whatever. I want to shock them.