Wyoming’s Jackson Hole got more of the snow that skiers crave on Tuesday night, but the heavy winds that came with it knocked out power and forced the area’s famed resort to close through the weekend. “This was a very unusual event for us,” said Anna Cole, a spokeswoman for the Jackson Hole Mountain Resort, where the slopes were emptied, hotel guests were relocated and the electricity remained off on Thursday. “This will probably be the longest time that we will have to close during our operating season in our history. ” In ski resort towns across the West, snow is the economic lifeblood, and winter storms are usually coveted. Jackson Hole has already gotten more than 400 inches of snow this season, Ms. Cole said, about as much as the total from last season. But the ferocious winds that accompanied Tuesday’s weather toppled 17 steel electrical poles, local officials said, blocking roadways and turning off the lights at the resort and the surrounding area. Crews are working to restore power and clear the highways, but the weather has scrambled vacation plans and closed   businesses during one of the region’s busiest months. Jason Wallace, from Austin, Tex. was part of a group that rented a house near the resort and planned to ski at Jackson Hole this week. But while waiting for his connecting flight in Denver on Wednesday, he learned of the storm damage and decided to change his plans. He is skiing in Colorado instead. “I think we all were kind of lucky to make the call pretty quickly that it wasn’t going to work,” said Mr. Wallace, who hopes to return to Jackson Hole at some point. A Special Olympics event and Skijoring, described as a mix of “extreme ski and rodeo,” scheduled at the resort this week have been canceled. Jackson Hole’s last multiday closing during ski season was in 1986, Ms. Cole said, when there was a snowstorm and avalanche risk. Resort officials said they did not foresee reopening before Monday. “I don’t know that we’ve had a power outage for this length of time,” said Melissa Turley, executive director of the Teton Village Association, the government agency that oversees the area around the resort. Still, with electrical lines strewed across the roads, Ms. Turley said residents were thankful there had been no reports of injuries or damage to buildings. Local tourism agencies worked with the resort to find hotel rooms for displaced travelers. Though power remains off at the resort, the nearby town of Jackson has electricity, another ski resort and plenty of hotel rooms, said Kate Foster, a spokeswoman for the Jackson Hole Chamber of Commerce. Flights continued to arrive and depart at the Jackson Hole Airport, though major airlines have offered travelers the opportunity to rebook if they would prefer. American Airlines gave its customers the option to request a refund. On Thursday’s American flight from Dallas to Jackson Hole, more than half the seats were still occupied, an airline spokesman said. And in Wyoming, where local officials were weathering an economic blow during what had been a promising ski season, many still saw a silver lining. “When the mountain resort opens,” Ms. Foster said, “it’s going to be amazing skiing. ”