The Knicks, who were already raising dysfunction to an art form with bad basketball and   Twitter posts from their famous team president, moved further into the surreal on Friday when the team’s owner announced that he was indefinitely barring one of the most popular players in franchise history from Madison Square Garden. The owner, James L. Dolan, can go years without engaging with the news media. But on Friday, he went on the radio to say that Charles Oakley, a stalwart member of some outstanding Knicks teams from the 1990s, would not be let into the Garden as a result of an altercation on Wednesday night that ended with Oakley being led from the arena in handcuffs while fans chanted his name. It was hard to find precedent for the Knicks’ decision  —   former players are normally treated like celebrities, not told they will not be allowed into a game even if they buy their own ticket  —   but it fit the almost bizarre image the franchise now seems to be busy creating for itself. Dolan, who announced the decision on Michael Kay’s afternoon program on ESPN Radio, said he was taking the step to bar Oakley out of concern for the safety of the team’s other paying customers. “We need to keep the Garden a place that’s comfortable and safe for everybody who goes there,” Dolan said. “So anybody who comes to the Garden  —   whether they’ve been drinking too much alcohol, they’re looking for a fight, they’re abusive, disrespectful to the staff and then fans  —   they’re going to be ejected and they’re going to be banned. ” Several times over the course of the   interview, Dolan described Oakley’s behavior on Wednesday night as out of line. Dolan also said that Oakley “may have a problem with alcohol” and that Oakley needed to seek help to control his anger. If Oakley were to address his behavioral issues, Dolan said, the Garden would most likely welcome him back. Oakley, 53, has long been estranged from the Knicks and has had an adversarial relationship with Dolan. But he has insisted he was not acting inappropriately on Wednesday night when he sat down not far from Dolan to watch the Knicks play the Los Angeles Clippers. A number of fans who were sitting near Oakley said they had not seen or heard him being belligerent. Other fans suggested that he seemed somewhat combative. In any case, after security guards approached him, a shoving match ensued, and that was followed by the    sight of Oakley being grabbed and led away. But many things with the Knicks are not easy to fathom. Their starting point guard, Derrick Rose, went AWOL for a day. The team itself has lost 20 of its past 26 games, continuing a run of futility that has dominated Dolan’s two decades as owner. And the team president, Phil Jackson, mimicking Dolan, has not spoken with reporters who cover the team since September. Jackson’s few communications have come via an isolated interview or two and occasional Twitter posts, some of them cryptic. But despite the little that he has said, he has still managed, at various moments, to anger both LeBron James and Carmelo Anthony. And although he seems intent on trading away Anthony, the Knicks’ only star, Jackson has a problem: Anthony’s   clause. Asked about Jackson during the radio interview, Dolan asserted that he would stay out of his way despite the dismal results Jackson has produced in his nearly three years as team president. He said he would honor Jackson’s   contract “all the way to the end. ” But while Dolan has long been unpopular in New York and Jackson does not have many admirers these days, Oakley has plenty of support. The incident on Wednesday led to an outpouring of acclaim for him, not only from the team’s frustrated fans but also from current and former N. B. A. players, who have long admired the tough work ethic that Oakley displayed on the court. Given all the negative fallout from Oakley’s ejection, Dolan was asked in the interview whether the organization now felt embarrassed. “Well, I certainly think Charles should be embarrassed,” he said. Oakley, who was reached by telephone after Dolan’s radio interview concluded, said that he had not listened to the broadcast but had already heard about some of Dolan’s comments. “Nothing they’re doing makes sense,” Oakley said. “I mean, this man, something’s wrong with him. He crossed a bridge the first night, and then he’s been crossing another bridge every day since. ” Oakley, who has acknowledged that he had a couple of drinks before he arrived at Wednesday’s game, declined to address Dolan’s statement that he might have problems with alcohol. “I don’t talk about that stuff,” he said. “I have no comment on that. I don’t have to defend myself on that. The people around me know if I have a drinking problem or not. ” Asked if he planned to pursue legal action against Dolan or the organization, Oakley said, “We’ll see what happens. ’’ Oakley later wrote on Twitter that he was planning to hold a news conference next week. Meanwhile, neither Oakley nor those backing him are liable to take kindly to repeated suggestions by the Knicks  —   the first came in a statement on Wednesday night  —   that Oakley needs some kind of “help” for his behavior. Instead, there was more support for Oakley, with Michele Roberts, the executive director of the National Basketball Players Association, weighing in after Dolan’s interview. “Painful to believe that my last image of Oak at MSG is him dragged out of the arena,” Roberts wrote on Twitter. “Is that how we remember our Legends? #NoBan. ” Dolan said he hoped that Oakley would not be barred forever. He said he would love to honor Oakley at midcourt along with several of his former teammates  —   again, provided that he seeks help. “But his behavior, it just doesn’t work with that,” Dolan said. “Until he can address it and get it under control, then we probably won’t be able to do it. ’’ Dolan said it was clear to him that Oakley had gone to Wednesday’s game with an “agenda” to be disruptive. Oakley never should have been allowed to take his seat, Dolan said, which he cited as one of his reasons for firing Frank Benedetto, the Garden’s senior vice president for security, on Friday morning. Benedetto, who previously served with the United States Secret Service, could not be reached for comment. Dolan recalled how, during the first quarter of Wednesday’s game, a security guard approached him to relate that he and his   were having difficulties with Oakley. Dolan said he had asked if they could wait to deal with the problem between quarters to avoid a big scene on national television. The security guard agreed with him, Dolan said, but the situation escalated. “And I said, ‘You’ve got to do what you’ve got to do,’” Dolan said. “It wasn’t until it was pointed out to me that he was behind us, I sort of opened my ear and started to hear and what I heard was terrible,’’ Dolan added. At one point during the radio interview, Dolan was reminded that he does not give many interviews. “No,” he said, “this isn’t my favorite thing. ” Nor, no doubt, is watching his team lose again, which the Knicks did on Friday night at the Garden, falling to the Denver Nuggets,  . Dolan sat in his customary seat near the court. Oakley, meanwhile, was absent, except for the chants bearing his name.