Here are the week’s top stories, and a look ahead. 1. The whiplash legal drama over President Trump’s immigration actions highlighted swirling confusion as his White House team tried to find its footing in a chaotic first few weeks on the job. Mr. Trump said that he might sign “a   order” as soon as Monday to replace the travel ban a   appeals panel unanimously refused to reinstate. For now, refugees and travelers from seven predominantly Muslim countries can continue to enter the U. S. _____ 2. Undocumented immigrants are bracing for a surge in deportations as the federal government prepares to follow through on Mr. Trump’s campaign pledge to crack down on illegal immigration. A case in Phoenix illustrated their fears: Guadalupe García de Rayos, 35, a married mother of two who sneaked across the border 21 years ago, was deported to Nogales, Mexico, after a routine   with the federal immigration agency. Her abrupt removal “illustrates the new reality,” the Mexican government said, warning its citizens in the U. S. to “take precautions and to keep in touch with their nearest consulate. ” _____ 3. Senate battles and unexpected revelations about nominees  —   undocumented household workers, questionable stock trades, undisclosed financial holdings  —   slowed the formation of the Trump cabinet to a crawl. Betsy DeVos became education secretary only after a historic tiebreaking vote from Vice President Mike Pence  —   and an acrimonious,   vigil on the Senate floor by the chamber’s Democrats. Tom Price was confirmed as secretary of health and human services after another   marathon. This week, the Senate holds confirmation votes on Steven Mnuchin for Treasury secretary, David Shulkin to head veterans affairs and Linda McMahon for administrator of the Small Business Administration. It will also hold a hearing on Andrew Puzder, whose nomination to be labor secretary has been opposed by labor groups concerned about his heavy opposition to workplace regulation. _____ 4. #LetLizSpeak became a rallying cry after Republican senators chided and formally silenced Senator Elizabeth Warren for impugning a peer, Senator Jeff Sessions, as she opposed his nomination for attorney general by reading a 1986 letter from Coretta Scott King. The move unleashed a powerful backlash, not least among women who know what it’s like to be told to hold their tongues. As our reporter wrote: “Republicans seized her microphone. And gave her a megaphone. ” Outside Washington, Republicans in state capitals are swiftly using their newfound power  —      control in 25 states  —   to advance a wave of legislation aiming to curtail union powers and abortion rights, loosen gun regulations, expand   programs and slash taxes and spending. _____ 5. Mr. Trump made further forays into foreign relations, tempering some of his harsher statements. To secure a phone call with China’s leader, Xi Jinping, he made conciliatory comments and affirmed his commitment to America’s “One China” policy. He also pulled toward the center on Israel, saying that the nation’s move to expand its West Bank settlements is not “a good thing for peace. ” North Korea tested a ballistic missile, prompting statements of solidarity from Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan and Mr. Trump, who were at the president’s    resort in Florida for a    outing. Above, the Trumps with Mr. Abe and his wife, Akie Abe, and Robert Kraft of the New England Patriots. The president meets this week with Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada on Monday, and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel on Wednesday. _____ 6. Nordstrom became the latest business to wander into the president’s sights when it decided to drop Ivanka Trump’s retail brand from its stores, citing poor performance. The fallout: a critical presidential tweet, a “boycott Nordstrom” movement from Trump supporters, a “support Nordstrom” push from Trump opponents, and a dizzying example of the partisan tightrope companies now walk. _____ 7. The 59th Grammy Awards are tonight (CBS, 8 p. m. Eastern, red carpet a   earlier) and the race to watch is Adele versus Beyoncé, facing off in each of the top three categories: album, record and song of the year. James Corden, a   Grammy host, is planning to make the most of his 15 minutes (literally that’s all he gets) and our writers have tips on five    artists to watch. Not interested in the music showdown? You might still be fascinated by this tale of how the 350 Grammy trophies are made by a craftsman who has been at it for nearly 30 years. _____ 8. The arc of women’s working lives is changing. Compared with past generations, women are now more likely to work at every stage of their lives, including into their 60s and even 70s. Some older workers keep their jobs out of financial necessity, but economic research indicates that a growing number of women stay employed longer because they find their careers fulfilling. “I feel 40,” said Lee Ann Monfredini, above, 68 and a broker in San Francisco. “I’m really not that good at the retirement thing. And I love the joy of getting that big commission check. ” _____ 9. On TV, “Girls” returns tonight for its final season (HBO, 10 p. m. Eastern) and John Oliver will also be back in action after a long break (HBO, 11 p. m. Eastern). If you’re on the hunt for weekend viewing suggestions, our Watching team has some ideas. You can also catch up on the week’s best quips and sketches with our curated cull of   comedy shows. _____ 10. Moving on to happier thoughts, it’s nearly Valentine’s Day. Romantics can check out our latest Modern Love podcast or revisit one of the column’s perennially   entries: “The 36 Questions That Lead to Love. ” Those on the verge of a permanent pairing might want to also consult “13 Questions to Ask Before Getting Married. ” Our “Committed” series explores the   history of wedding announcements in The New York Times, with updates on noteworthy couples like the Gibbses, one of the first   pairs featured. Sixty years later, they are still happily together. _____ 11. And finally, more optimistic news on aging well, from a new scientific study of a    cyclist. You can take advantage of his workout approach  —   brief bursts of strenuous activity mixed with   exercise  —   in as little as one minute. In other fun news from our friends in science: hip action is the key to being a dancing queen,   geckos have a really freaky way of dodging danger, and a fiery meteor last week blazed a trail visible all the way from New York to Nebraska. Have a great week. _____ Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of the briefing should help. Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a. m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, weekdays at 6 a. m. Eastern, and Your Evening Briefing, weeknights at 6 p. m. Eastern. Want to look back? Here’s Friday’s Evening Briefing. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes. com.