This article includes spoilers for the current season of “The Walking Dead. ” “The Walking Dead,” which returns from its winter break on Sunday, began its seventh season with a bludgeoning for the ages, a double murder that turned the stomachs of even longtime fans inured to the show’s splatter factor. It didn’t get any better from there, as Rick and the Gang (along with the rest of us) endured seven more weeks of misery and subjugation by the new baddie Negan and his Saviors, before finally seeming to rebound in the midseason finale. Are our heroes ready to overthrow their tormentors? Let’s consider this and several additional questions leading into Sunday’s second half premiere. Glenn and Abraham were the big ones, of course. We also lost Spencer and Olivia, but they were pretty marginal. Daryl and Eugene were taken by the Saviors, but Daryl escaped. Glenn and Abraham’s brutal deaths set a gloomy tone for the first half of the season, which was primarily about Rick and friends grieving the loss and being victimized by Negan and the Saviors. We also met some new groups, and   …     well, that was about it. But eventually enough was enough, and the midseason finale ended with the core good guys reuniting, determined to throw off the yoke of Savior oppression. The tagline for this half is Rise Up, so it seems like a safe bet. Perhaps the more pertinent question is, when will the revolt happen? Teasers find Rick on a diplomatic mission to bring groups like the Hilltop and the Kingdom into the effort. How long will it take to persuade them to join the fight? Hard to say. Will it all be resolved this season? Considering that Negan doesn’t seem to be going anywhere anytime soon, probably not. Season 7 has kicked off a new phase of “The Walking Dead” marked by colonies that are collaborating and clashing as civilization recreates itself in a postapocalyptic dawn. So far, in addition to the Saviors and Alexandria, we’ve met the weak but industrious Hilltop, led by the sniveling Gregory the Kingdom, led by the   poser King Ezekiel and Oceanside, an   group, led by the   Natania, who hates outsiders but has lots of guns. There are also the Wolves, a murderous gang that was a real problem last season but hasn’t been a factor in Season 7. So is that it? Or are there more introductions to come? Based on this season’s general   tendencies, it seems likely. O. K. it seems very likely. The boots in question, glimpsed in the midseason finale near the pond where Rick and Aaron found supplies, could very easily belong to someone from yet another group. In the last episode, we saw Saviors tending a herd of walkers, which may or may not be the same herd the Alexandrians loosed from the quarry at the beginning of Season 6. Whatever its provenance, the swarm seems sure to come into play somehow  —   we all know what Chekhov said about zombie herds hanging out on the highway. Carol has been a real bummer this season, moping through her scant few scenes as people like Morgan and King Ezekiel tried to breach the antisocial cocoon she’s spun around herself. They were unsuccessful, and after she’d sufficiently healed from her gunshot wound, Carol got herself a hermit’s hut on the outskirts of the Kingdom. You’ll recall that the mousy housewife turned stone killer reached a breaking point last season, and sought to distance herself from others so she wouldn’t have to kill again. Carol would seem to be too intelligent to believe such a policy is possible in a lawless hellscape, but perhaps we’ll learn that there’s more to it. Or maybe she just needed some me time. Maybe she’ll learn about Glenn and Abraham, and emerge from that cocoon as a battling butterfly of righteous vengeance. Whatever the case, here’s hoping she returns to the center of the show somehow, as it has suffered from the absence of both Carol and Melissa McBride, who plays her with grit and grace. Jeffrey Dean Morgan is electric in his performance, which is unfortunately also full of affected mannerisms  —   wild exclamations, an odd   move  —   that quickly grew tiresome. A big villain helps to give “The Walking Dead” focus, and Mr. Morgan has shown promise, so hopefully he and the writers will find the actual man behind the tics. What questions or hopes do you have for the second half of the season? Please share your thoughts in the comments.