JERUSALEM  —   “Water the soil with your blood,” was the message conveyed by a cartoon published last week in the official Palestinian Authority daily. The cartoon depicted a Palestinian prisoner watering a blooming plant with blood directly from his vein. [The cartoon, which was published in     and cited by Israeli NGO Palestinian Media Watch, is in keeping with the ideology of Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas’ Fatah party, which regularly promotes the idea that the land and the cause of “Palestine” needs Palestinian blood in order to survive.  Children from a young age are indoctrinated with this blood cult ideology of martyrdom as a poem posted on Fatah’s Facebook page testifies: Teach your children  …     There is a seed in the soil, If you water it with blood, It will sprout a revolution, When the most recent wave of terror was launched in October 2015, the PA fueled the fire by glorifying suicide and martyrdom. Following one of the first terror attacks, the PA daily     summarized the attack thus: [Palestinians] insisted on perfuming themselves with the Martyr’s blood.   …     The residents of Jerusalem looked at the blood spots which were still on the ground and on the water which turned slightly red from it, formed a circle and recited the [Quranic Sura]   for the martyr’s [soul]. Earlier the same month, PA official Governor of Ramallah and   Laila Ghannam, posted a message on her Facebook page describing the morning as one “fragranced by the blood of the martyrs:” Palestine’s morning, A morning fragranced by the blood of the martyrs, The morning of wounded Jerusalem, Have a morning of pride and honor, In January, Fatah posted a separate call to water the soil with blood of martyrs: Fatah means full readiness to sacrifice and faith in Allah, and afterwards in the inevitable victory, in the justice of the cause, and in the national unity. We were born as rebels on the land of [Prophet] Muhammad’s Night Journey and Ascent to Heaven we carried out intifada as free men and we embraced the land in purity and washed in blood with which we watered our land for freedom and independence.  