JAKARTA, Indonesia  —   The Christian governor of the capital of Indonesia, the world’s most populous   nation, has been fighting for his political life in an election campaign charged with religious and ethnic undertones. After voters went to the polls Wednesday, it appeared that he would have to fight a little longer. Unofficial results from the balloting in Jakarta, the capital, indicated that the governor, Basuki Tjahaja Purnama, held a small lead over his nearest challenger but was unlikely to win more than half of the vote. If the official results confirm that, a runoff will be held April 18. Mr. Basuki, who is ethnic Chinese, has been hobbled by a criminal trial on a charge of blasphemy against Islam, in connection with remarks about a Quran verse that he made last year. Mr. Basuki and his supporters say the court case, which was preceded by mass protests in the capital by Islamists demanding that he be prosecuted or even lynched, was orchestrated by political opponents to sabotage his election campaign. Analysts also saw the furor over Mr. Basuki’s remarks as an attempt to weaken President Joko Widodo, a key ally of the governor who is expected to seek a second term in 2019. Mr. Basuki, widely known by his nickname, Ahok, is only the second   governor of Jakarta, and if he wins, he will be the first   to be elected to the post directly. He was elevated from deputy governor in 2014 after Mr. Joko, his predecessor, was elected president. Hours after the polls closed Wednesday, independent polling firms conducting   quick counts  —   which are taken from small samples of ballots cast and which have been highly accurate in past elections  —   put Mr. Basuki in the lead with 43 percent of the vote, and Anies Baswedan, a former minister of education and culture, in second with 40 percent. Other counts had Mr. Basuki ahead by slightly different margins. A third candidate, Agus Yudhoyono, a former army officer and son of a former president, Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, was shown finishing a distant third with around 17 percent. Both of Mr. Basuki’s opponents are Muslim and Javanese, the dominant ethnic group on the island where Jakarta sits. Indonesia’s population of 250 million includes more than 190 million Muslims, but it has influential minority populations of Christians, Hindus and Buddhists. While    issues like education, health care, transportation and infrastructure development are important to voters, the campaign for governor has been overshadowed by issues of religion and race that have scarcely been seen before in Indonesia’s democratic era.   and   slurs directed toward Mr. Basuki have spread widely on social media in recent months. “One has to admit that Ahok did remarkably well considering the type of campaign that has been mounted against him,” said Jeffrey A. Winters, a professor of politics at Northwestern University who is a longtime observer of Indonesian affairs. “This is the first time a Chinese Christian has run for a major office in Indonesia, and he came close to winning an outright majority despite being on trial for blasphemy and attempts by his opponents to turn it into an   choice,” he said. “Jakarta voters have shown themselves to be incredibly tolerant, which is a plus. ” However, analysts said Mr. Basuki’s failure to win the election outright in the first round could be his undoing, because most voters who supported Mr. Agus were expected to then back the   campaign of Mr. Anies, who has promoted his religious credentials. “The political identity in Indonesia is more fragmented now because Anies will be branded as the representative of Islam and Ahok as the representative of ” said Titi Anggraini, executive director of the Association for Elections and Democracy, a nongovernmental organization based in Jakarta. “Based on my calculations, it will be difficult for Ahok now,” she said. Mr. Basuki was charged with blasphemy months after lightheartedly citing a verse in the Quran last September that warns Muslims against taking Christians and Jews as friends. He said that given Indonesia’s transition to democracy in the late 1990s, it would be acceptable for Muslims to cast ballots for a Christian. The ensuing attacks against him by Islamist groups and his political opponents came despite a   regulation against using religion and ethnicity as issues in political campaigns. After the unofficial results were released, Mr. Basuki rallied his supporters, reminding them that he still came in first place despite the religious and ethnically charged atmosphere. “Considering that at one point, no one wanted to touch us, there are still many people who believe in us,” he said. “We believe this struggle is not over yet. ” Mr. Anies tried to play down the impact of Islamist attacks on Mr. Basuki, telling his supporters that “eventually, the public wants change. It’s not related to   politics, but the public’s needs. ” Earlier Wednesday, however, at a polling station in a firehouse in a   neighborhood in South Jakarta, Sari Rahayu, 47, a teacher who was wearing a Muslim head scarf, or hijab, said religious sentiments had indeed influenced her vote for Mr. Anies. The Quran, she said, made it clear that Mr. Basuki was not an option. “We’re not allowed to choose a leader who is not Muslim,” she said. She said that Mr. Basuki did a good job in office but added, “He doesn’t have the right to speak about the Quran. ” Still, the governor has no lack of support among Muslims, who make up the majority of voters in Jakarta. Anshori, an exporter who, like many Indonesians, goes by one name, went to the same firehouse with his wife and daughters, who were in hijabs and the checked shirts that Mr. Basuki’s supporters have long worn. “He’s honest. No corruption. He’s firm,” Mr. Anshori said. “We’re not angry about the religious attacks it’s just something we have to face. ”