Harrison Ford, the actor known for his portrayal of a cocky smuggler and spacecraft pilot in the “Star Wars” movies, mistakenly flew a private plane over a commercial airliner carrying more than 100 people at a California airport on Monday, according to a news report. Mr. Ford, 74, an avid pilot and collector of vintage planes, had been instructed to land on a runway at John Wayne Airport in Santa Ana, Calif. He correctly read back the instructions but landed instead on a taxiway parallel to the runway. In doing so, he flew his plane, a   Aviat Husky, over a 737 that was stopped just ahead of the runway. NBC News, which reported on the episode, said Mr. Ford’s plane flew over an American Airlines jet with 110 passengers and a   crew. It was unclear how far above the airliner he was. NBC reported that Mr. Ford could be heard on   control recordings asking, “Was that airliner meant to be underneath me?” For Mr. Ford, who played Han Solo, the swashbuckling pilot of the Millennium Falcon in the “Star Wars” movies, the errant landing was the second notable episode involving an aircraft he was piloting in nearly two years and the fourth since 1999. On Tuesday, Ian Gregor, a spokesman for the Federal Aviation Administration’s Pacific division, confirmed most details of the episode and said that the agency was investigating it. No one was injured. Mr. Gregor did not confirm that Mr. Ford was piloting the private plane because the agency does not identify people involved in aircraft episodes or accidents. Mr. Gregor, speaking in general, said in an email that pilots who violated agency regulations could face penalties ranging from a warning letter to having their licenses suspended or revoked. Landing on a taxiway is a violation of federal safety rules. United Talent Agency, which represents Mr. Ford, referred inquiries to his publicist, Ina Treciokas, who declined to comment Tuesday night. Mr. Ford is certified as a private pilot and is rated by the F. A. A. to fly several types of aircraft, including a helicopter, according to agency records. He has been inducted into the Living Legends of Aviation and has an honor named after him, the Harrison Ford Aviation Legacy Award. Other episodes involving Mr. Ford and aircraft: • In March 2015, Mr. Ford was injured when a   World War   training plane he was piloting crashed onto a golf course in Venice, Calif. shortly after taking off from Santa Monica Airport. The plane had engine trouble on takeoff, and Mr. Ford was forced to make an emergency landing. He was “banged up” but walked away from the scene, his publicist said at the time. • In June 2000, while landing in Lincoln, Neb. a gust blew Mr. Ford’s plane from the runway. The aircraft, a Beechcraft Bonanza, sustained minor damage, and neither Mr. Ford nor his passenger were injured, AirSafe. com, a website about plane crashes, reported. • In October 1999 in Santa Clarita, Calif. Mr. Ford was on a training flight in a Bell 206 helicopter when he and the instructor made an emergency landing in a dry riverbed, according to AirSafe. com. Neither Mr. Ford nor the instructor were hurt, but the helicopter was substantially damaged.