Good morning. (Want to get California Today by email? Here’s the  .) Please note: We will pause for Presidents’ Day and be back on Tuesday. For a couple of weeks each February, Yosemite’s Horsetail Fall puts on a show when the setting sun appears to transform its ribbon of water down the face of El Capitan into glowing lava. That’s if conditions cooperate. The phenomenon only works when the sun is lined up just so, the skies are clear and the mountains are snowy enough to fuel the waterfall. A bit of mist whipped up by the wind helps to get the full effect. Pamela Marcelino, a Postal Service worker in San Francisco, made the drive to Yosemite last Saturday to capture the   firefall. More than 150 other photographers were there, cameras poised, she said. “And you just wait for that moment, holding your breath,” Ms. Marcelino, 41, said. Then, the   glow fades in gradually, peaks and fades out in a matter of roughly 10 minutes. And it’s over. Since last weekend, photographers have been posting dozens of their images to Instagram. Here are a handful that they shared with us: (Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.) • Rain will continue today, with central and southern parts of the state facing heavy rain, flash floods and potential mudslides in some neighborhoods. [AccuWeather] • “It’s not just Oroville”: Record precipitation this winter is straining water control systems statewide, with the most   areas lying in the Central Valley. [Los Angeles Times] • An atmospheric river is set to hit Northern California on Monday, and experts say the heaviest rain may fall “right into the Oroville area. ” [The Mercury News] • Yesterday’s “Day Without Immigrants” saw participation statewide, and some school districts had up to triple the rate of absences in certain schools. [The Orange County Register] • Our Culture department is divided over “La La Land. ” Some of us love it. Others hate it. [The New York Times] • All of BART’s 669 railcars will have working security cameras by July 1, officials have promised. [The San Francisco Chronicle] • In the past six years, Big Oil has spent $122 million to shape regulation and legislation in California. [The Nation] • The actor Tom Lenk recreates fashion looks spotted on the red carpet with potato chip bags and other trash. [The New York Times] • For a nation of immigrants, the United States has worked hard to keep foreigners out, writes Eduardo Porter. [The New York Times] • Radio documentary: The bullet train’s vexed crawl up California. [KALW] • Later this month ABC will air an     about gay rights called “When We Rise,” which was written by Dustin Lance Black and focuses largely on San Francisco. [The New York Times] This May marks 80 years since the Golden Gate Bridge opened, but today is a darker anniversary: Eighty years ago, 10 laborers fell from the bridge to their deaths, breaking what Life magazine called a “historic record” of safety at a construction site. Up until that day, just one worker had died  —   remarkable for a time when the rule of thumb in construction was to assume one death for every $1 million spent. The bridge cost $35 million, or about $590 million in today’s dollars. The bridge’s nearly perfect record was due to the obsession with safety protocols from its chief engineer, Joseph Strauss, along with an innovation he brought that was   in 1930s construction: a safety net to catch falling workers. Nineteen workers fell to the net while the bridge was being built, forming what they called the “Half Way to Hell Club. ” But on Feb. 17, scaffolding on the side of the bridge fell and ripped through the net, taking the 10 laborers with it. A plaque near the bridge honors the men who died.  —   Tim Herrera Want to submit a photo for possible publication? You can do it here. California Today goes live at 6 a. m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes. com. The California Today columnist, Mike McPhate, is a   Californian  —   born outside Sacramento and raised in San Juan Capistrano. He lives in Davis. Follow him on Twitter. California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and attended U. C. Berkeley.