Third of Four Parts  …      A Defining Event in Everyone’s Healthcare  Let’s start with the central moment of healthcare as experienced by most Americans.  The patient goes to a medical office and says, “Please, doctor, I have this ache, pain, or lump.  Is there anything you can do to help me?”  We can quickly see that this healthcare experience —  including, also, seeking advice for wellness and overall longevity, for oneself or for a loved one —  almost always comes prior to any consideration of paying the bill.   Instead, one’s instinctive and immediate focus is on health that is, we are more naturally interested in the fruits of medical science —  is there anything you can do? —  than in the    of accountancy finance. To put the issue another way, the patient regards his or her problem as, first and foremost, a health issue and then, and only then, a financial issue.  After all, the reason for going to the doctor in the first place is not to wrangle over the eventual bill that might come later.  In the here and now, the purpose of the visit, of course, is to get better.   We can observe that this is basic human nature: If you’re in a theater and someone yells “Fire!” your first instinct is flight, to survive worrying about getting a refund on your ticket can wait till you’ve escaped the danger.     Thus the implicit science of a medical situation —  can the doctor help me or not? —  is prior to the finance flesh, blood, and pain take priority over money, debt, and numbers on a ledger.   “Healthcare Policy Is a Loser for Whichever Party Is in Charge” The Value of Hanging Out with a Better Crowd, So is there hope that a Republican Cure Strategy will emerge?  We’ll have to wait and see, of course, but it certainly seems that the cures approach —  as highlighted by Trump and Cruz, and as legislated by Upton and Wicker —  offers Republicans more upside and less downside. In the meantime, we only know this much: The   fusion of science, technology, and vision has worked in the past to promote progress, and it can be made to work, yet again, in the future. Why so optimistic?  We’ll take up that question in the next installment.