MUNICH  —   While President Trump has disrupted assumptions about American foreign policy, members of his cabinet have been scrambling to reassure allies that the United States remains a bedrock of support. The trouble is, after four weeks of tumult at the White House, the allies are not sure who to believe. Mr. Trump has questioned the European Union and NATO, spoken admiringly of Russia and upended Middle East diplomacy. His proxies have maintained that the United States is still a deterrent to Russia and China, a credible arbiter in the Middle East and a faithful ally to Europe. The skepticism over who is in charge in Washington was crystallized on Friday at an annual meeting of dignitaries in Munich for a yearly security conference. Germany’s defense minister, Ursula von der Leyen, caused ripples when she pointedly expressed appreciation for the American “secretary of defense’s strong commitment to NATO. ” She was referring to Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, who has spent his week in Europe trying to persuade allies that contrary to what President Trump has said in the United States, the country has not soured on the   alliance. Several people at the conference instantly took note on Twitter of Ms. Von der Leyen’s phrasing, including Vali Nasr, dean of the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies. Vice President Mike Pence, who arrived in Munich on Friday night Mr. Mattis Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly and Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson, a few miles up the road in Bonn  —   have all spent much of the week soothing European ears, presenting traditional Republican national security orthodoxy of confronting Russia, supporting NATO and backing democratic institutions. But every time they seemed to be getting traction in convincing skittish diplomats that Mr. Trump was not about to abandon decades of American national security policy, their boss did something in Washington that undercut their work. The result has been confusion among global leaders about whom to believe when it comes to the direction of American national security. The reassuring message Mr. Trump’s subordinates have sought to convey has been further undermined by some of his own Republican critics. Senator John McCain, whose disdain for Mr. Trump is well known, was quoted by Reuters as saying at the Munich conference that Michael T. Flynn’s resignation as Mr. Trump’s national security adviser over his Russia liaisons was “something that shows that in many respects this administration is in disarray and they’ve got a lot of work to do. ” The contradictions have abounded. On Wednesday, Mr. Trump seemed to abandon a broad international consensus on how to achieve peace between Israelis and Palestinians, asserting that he was not committed to a   solution.   hours later, his United Nations envoy said, “We absolutely support a   solution,” adding that the administration simply wanted a “thinking out of the box” approach about resolving one of the world’s intractable conflicts. The same day that Mr. Trump questioned the   approach, Mr. Mattis was at NATO headquarters telling allies that the commitment of the United States to NATO remained firm. But Mr. Mattis also echoed his boss when he warned that the United States might “moderate” its support if other member countries did not spend more on the military. The next day, still at NATO, Mr. Mattis was back to saying that the American commitment to NATO was unshakable. He said the Trump administration’s “commitment to Article 5 remains solid,” referring to NATO’s principle that an attack on one is an attack on all. European diplomats breathed a sigh of relief again, until Mr. Trump held a prolonged and chaotic news conference a few hours later in Washington. “Let’s put it this way, the discrepancy between the president’s news conference and the way his cabinet is trying to reassure Europeans couldn’t be wider,” said Michael Werz, a senior fellow at the Center for American Progress, who was at the Munich conference. Volker Perthes, the head of SWP, a policy research group based in Germany, said: “Mattis speaks of ‘defending the   international order.’ I hope he can explain this to his boss. ” What appeared to rattle people the most about Mr. Trump’s news conference on Thursday were his attacks on members of the news media assembled before him. Several diplomats said they worried that Mr. Trump was trying to discredit a tenet of American democracy  —   a free press  —   and in so doing, might embolden despots around the world into further challenges to freedom of the press. Struggling to explain how to assess the seeming chaos coming out of Washington, Michael Fallon, Britain’s defense minister, told reporters, “You know, new administrations, you know, can take time to settle down. ” In the crowded lounges and refined tearooms of Munich’s Hotel Bayerischer Hof, where leaders and top officials were mingling, much of the talk on Friday was not about the panels on issues like “the future of the European Union: united or divided,” or “the future of the West: downfall or comeback?” Instead, it was about Mr. Trump’s Thursday news conference, which appeared to deeply unnerve a number of officials. Overheard conversations included one in which one European official said that the United States was now on the list of “risk factors” for Europe, echoing a concern expressed two weeks earlier by Donald Tusk, head of the European Council. German officials joked that American diplomats and civil service organizations could now qualify for German democracy funding  —   money designated for countries with struggling democratic institutions. Several people seemed on edge awaiting what Mr. Mattis would say when he addressed the conference. When he finally approached the lectern, he sounded exactly like numerous other American chiefs who have preceded him. “The   bond remains our strongest bulwark against instability and violence,” he said. “I am confident that we will strengthen our partnerships, confronting those who choose to attack innocent people or our democratic processes and freedoms. ” Mr. Mattis, Mr. Nasr said after the speech, “is the one island of stability. ” But, he added, “the key is that nobody knows the extent of his influence. Right now, we’re tight with   unity, but who knows what to believe?” Ms. Von der Leyen, the German defense minister, used her time at the lectern before Mr. Mattis spoke to deliver a warning to the Trump administration about putting cooperation with Russia ahead of its alliances in Europe  —   or even on the same footing for that matter. “Our American friends know well that your tone on Europe and NATO has a direct impact on the cohesion of our continent,” Ms. Von der Leyen said. “There cannot be a policy of equidistance to allies and to those who openly question our values, our borders and international law. ” Ms. Von der Leyen also criticized Mr. Trump’s efforts to close American borders to refugees from around the world and suspend immigration from several predominantly Muslim countries. (Those efforts have been blocked by American courts.) “We should be careful that this fight does not become a front against Islam and Muslims,” Ms. Von der Leyen said. “Otherwise, we run the risk of digging ourselves into a deeper grave in which violence and terror only grow further. ”