NEW ORLEANS  —   James Harden was staying out of it. “They’re two grown men,” Harden, the Houston Rockets’   guard, said ahead of Sunday night’s N. B. A.   Game. “They have to figure it out themselves. ” He was referring to the continuing rift between Kevin Durant and Russell Westbrook, two former teammates who do not seem to like each other much these days. Their weekend here was an awkward reunion for two global icons, both   for the Western Conference. As such, they were obliged to share oxygen, if not much else, at Smoothie King Center. Perhaps there was a brief détente for the West’s   victory over the East. In the first quarter, Westbrook came off the bench to join Durant on the floor. On their fourth possession together, Durant tossed a lob to Westbrook for a dunk. Their teammates erupted on the bench, and it appeared as though Westbrook and Durant were capable of coexisting, at least for one night. “He threw a lob,” Westbrook said. “That’s all that happened. Just threw a lob. It’s basketball. ” In a game completely devoid of actual competition and anything that remotely resembled defense, Anthony Davis of the New Orleans Pelicans set an   Game record with 52 points on his home floor, breaking a mark held by Wilt Chamberlain, and was named the game’s most valuable player. Westbrook scored 41 points, and Durant had 21 to go along with 10 rebounds and 10 assists. Once upon a time, Durant and Westbrook played together for the Oklahoma City Thunder. Last summer, Durant left for the Golden State Warriors in free agency. Westbrook was not pleased. According to various accounts, their only communication in the many months since Durant’s departure came a little over a week ago, when they screamed at each other in the second half of a Warriors victory in Oklahoma City. Before Sunday’s game, they proved equally adept at avoiding the mere mention of the other person’s name. Durant, for example, was asked how he dealt with potential distractions. “Sometimes it’s tough,” he said. “But when you just block it out, it’s kind of easy. Don’t look at stuff and don’t pay attention. Stuff that you guys think is important, I don’t think it’s important at all. When you look at it that way, it’s pretty easy to me. ” As for Westbrook, he refused even to dip his toes into the topic. Consider his response to a question about being in the same locker room as Durant. “Man, you know what? Fashion week has been great,” Westbrook said. “You seen fashion week? You pay attention to fashion week? A lot of   things in fashion week. New collections. ” An intrepid reporter attempted to ask a   about Durant. Take it away, Russ. “Man, you seen the new Public School clothing? Crazy,” Westbrook said. “They got the new Jordan hoodie with M. J. It’s crazy, man. A lot of new great things with fashion week I’ve seen, man. What else is out? Gucci. The new Gucci stuff is dope. It’s good stuff, man. ” At Saturday’s public practice at the Superdome, Westbrook and Durant kept their distance. Whenever possible  —   which was often  —   they took up residence at opposite ends of the court. Warriors Coach Steve Kerr, who coached the West   said he had no intention of organizing any kind of meeting between the two to work on healing their feud. That was not his job. “The only thing I want is for our players to enjoy the weekend,” Kerr said. “It’s a hectic weekend for all of them. It’s a great honor to be here. I want everybody to be comfortable and happy. ” It should be noted, of course, that Durant and Westbrook are both in the process of assembling remarkable seasons. Durant, a   forward, is averaging 25. 8 points, 8. 3 rebounds and 4. 9 assists for the Warriors, who have a     record. He is also shooting a   53. 9 percent from the field, a product of his own improvement, along with the ability of his   teammates to draw defensive attention. Durant and Stephen Curry have developed into a particularly dynamic tandem. There is always a period of adjustment when players are new to each other, Kerr said, especially when they are superstars. But Curry and Durant are almost unstoppable when they are on the court together. Then add to that the set of challenges Klay Thompson creates from the   line. “It’s amazing how quickly they’ve adapted to each other,” Kerr said. “I think Steph had the bigger adjustment, frankly, because he was trying to incorporate K. D. into our group. But I think it turned for Steph when he realized he didn’t have to do anything differently. He could just be himself, and be aggressive and look to score. ” In Durant’s absence, Westbrook has hauled the Thunder to a   record. He is averaging 31. 1 points and 10. 5 rebounds, both career highs, along with 10. 1 assists. He is bidding to become only the second player to average a    —   double figures in three of five major statistical categories  —   for an entire season. Oscar Robertson did it in  . With Durant, though, the Thunder were title contenders. Last season, they took the Warriors to seven games in the conference finals  —   and probably would have advanced to face the Cleveland Cavaliers in the N. B. A. finals had Thompson failed to engineer some   heroics. Without Durant, the Thunder are determined overachievers. The joke goes that they are only one player away from being back in the hunt for a title. (That player now lives in the Bay Area.) Despite all that, Westbrook said: “I’m in a great place. I’m happy. I’m having fun. ” Westbrook was already a competitive individual before Durant left town. But Durant’s departure appears to have motivated Westbrook even more, no small feat. And in that way, despite their clear differences, Westbrook and Durant remain connected. Westbrook feeds off the anger, uses it as fuel. This is his version of happiness. This is the way he has fun.