Casualties have been reported after a truck crashed into pedestrians in the Swedish capital Stockholm, police say. [UPDATE 5:00 pm EST: Details have emerged about the man arrested by police. He is said to be a    migrant from Uzbekistan who is a father of four. According to the reports, he is said to have posted   State material on Facebook and has admitted to being part of the attack.  Neighbours of the man do not believe that he was part of the attack and say that he rarely discussed politics or religion. Police still maintain that they do not believe he was the driver of the truck in the attack. UPDATE 4:15 pm EST: Stockholm police have announced that the person arrested was not the driver in the attack and say the driver is still at large.  UPDATE 2:50 pm EST: Police have confirmed that they have arrested a suspect in the attack and that there are now four victims according to Swedish newspaper Expressen. The man is said to have been arrested in the district of Märsta outside of Stockholm. UPDATE 2:30 pm EST: Video from a local shop has emerged showing people running in panic and the truck used in the attack driving by at high speed.  UPDATE 11:40 am EST: Police now say that no one has officially been arrested in connection with the attack and have released a picture of a man in a hoodie who they believe to be a suspect. Police have begun a manhunt for the suspected attacker.  UPDATE 10:40 am EST: Jimmie Åkesson, leader of the   migration Sweden Democrats, has expressed sympathy for the victims of the attack on Twitter saying, “let our thoughts go to the victims and their families. Fruktansvärda händelser i Stockholm just nu, med både döda och skadade. Låt våra tankar gå till de drabbade och deras anhöriga.  —   Jimmie Åkesson (@jimmieakesson) April 7, 2017,  UPDATE 10:35 am EST: Police have ordered the evacuation of the main train station in central Stockholm. UPDATE 10:31 am EST:  Pictures have emerged of police arresting a man at the scene of the attack.  UPDATE 10:21 am EST: A video posted on Twitter appears to show the aftermath of the attack with a fire having broken out. Watching the events unfold after a truck drove into Åhléns on Drottninggatan. pic. twitter.   —   Emil Stenqvist (@svammel) April 7, 2017,  UPDATE 10:06 am EST: Swedish Prime Minister Stefan Lofven has released a statement calling the attack likely an act of terrorism. The Swedish leader also has said that one suspect is currently in custody. UPDATE 10:03 am EST: Swedish police have officially deemed the incident an “attack” in an official statement. Swedish police statement on Stockholm situation, have deemed it an attack: pic. twitter.   —   Megan Specia (@meganspecia) April 7, 2017,  UPDATE 10:00 am EST: According to Spendrups, the owners of the truck involved in the attack, the truck in question was hijacked earlier today. Communications director Mårten Lyth said that the driver is unharmed and the hijacker took the truck as the driver was about to unload cargo. UPDATE 9:43 am EST: Newspaper Dagens Nyheter reports that there has been another shooting in the Fridhemsplan areas in Stockholm. It is unknown if the shooting is related to the incident in Drottninggatan at this time. JUST NU: Skottlossning på Fridhemsplan i Stockholm, enligt källor till DN https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Dagens Nyheter (@dagensnyheter) April 7, 2017,  The truck slammed into pedestrians near the Åhlens shopping centre on the Drottninggatan pedestrian street in the Swedish capital. According to Swedish paper Aftonbladet, the police on the scene are saying that the incident is likely a terrorist attack. “I saw hundreds of people ran, they ran for their lives,” said one witness name Anna. Another witness said, “We stood inside a shoe store, and we heard no noise, and so people start screaming. So I look out at the store, so I see a huge truck slammed into the wall opposite. ” Swedish broadcaster SVT are now claiming that three people have been killed in the incident and that shots have been fired. . @SigmaSquawk video from #Stockholm, #Sweden. pic. twitter.   —   Global News (@GlobalZarfati) April 7, 2017,  Terrorattentat i Stockholm! !!#terrorattack #stockholm pic. twitter.   —   Per Gardell (@PerGardell) April 7, 2017,    More follows