(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the  .) Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1. The Trump administration detailed plans to deport millions of immigrants, a major shift in enforcement policy that is expected to face resistance from many states and dozens of   sanctuary cities. The new Homeland Security rules authorize the expulsion of undocumented immigrants who commit even minor offenses, and make it easier to deport people immediately. This is how deportation works, step by step. Immigration will be high on the agenda as Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson and the secretary of homeland security, John F. Kelly, visit Mexico this week. _____  2. President Trump spoke out for the first time about the rise in incidents and threats targeting Jews and Jewish institutions, calling   “horrible,” and “painful. ” He said the venue for his comments, the National Museum of African American History and Culture, was “a meaningful reminder of why we have to fight bigotry, intolerance and hatred in all of its very ugly forms. ” A day earlier, his daughter Ivanka Trump, who has converted to Judaism, called for protections as nearly a dozen Jewish community centers across the country received bomb threats by phone. Above, a Jewish cemetery in St. Louis where nearly 200 headstones were toppled over the weekend. _____ 3. Republicans home for the congressional recess have been greeted with an earful at town   meetings. Those who scheduled no meetings faced criticism that they were ducking constituents. In Iowa, a pig farmer (and Democrat) furious over the possible repeal of Obamacare gave Senator Charles Grassley a bottle of Tums. “You’re going to need ’em the next few years,” he said, drawing laughs from the crowd. _____ 4. Milo Yiannopoulos, the   provocateur who incited a storm of criticism for condoning sex with boys, left Breitbart News. His explanation of the comments, in a video that surfaced over the weekend, as “British sarcasm, provocation and gallows humor” appeared to sway few. He also lost a book deal and a speaking engagement at the Conservative Political Action Conference. _____ 5. A riot in an immigrant neighborhood in Sweden was seized upon by Trump supporters as validation of his claims  —   based on a Fox News feature  —   that the European country had experienced a surge in crime and violence linked to refugees. Preliminary statistics do not show a major increase in crime from 2015, when Sweden processed a record 163, 000 asylum applications, to 2016, and Mr. Trump’s assertions baffled Swedes. The country’s interior minister said of the clash that making “suburbs and socially vulnerable areas safer” could “get a little messy. ” _____ 6. Trinidad and Tobago is scrambling to stop young Muslims from going to Syria to take up arms for the Islamic State. Per capita, the Caribbean island nation has the largest number of foreign fighters from the Western Hemisphere who have joined the militant group, according to John L. Estrada, a former U. S. ambassador there. “Trinidadians do very well with ISIL,” he said. “They are high up in the ranks, they are very respected and they are  . ISIL have used them for propaganda to spread their message through the Caribbean. ” _____ 7. Political dissent is simmering in the art world. More than 65 writers, artists and actors published an open letter opposing Mr. Trump’s efforts to bar people from seven predominantly Muslim countries. And if history is any guide, at least some of the stars at the Oscars this Sunday will criticize Mr. Trump’s approach to immigration and other issues. Above, Meryl Streep’s impassioned speech at the Golden Globes. _____ 8. Mardi Gras is next Tuesday, and a small family brewery in the bayou country of southern Louisiana is ready. Bayou Teche Brewing, known for some of the most distinctive craft beers in the United States, is preparing a special drink for the old Cajun version of the holiday. Men dress in handmade costumes and traverse town on horseback, begging for ingredients for a communal gumbo. The beer  —   wheaty, slightly hoppy and high in alcohol  —   pairs well with the gumbo, and the style is celebratory, for the arrival of spring. _____ 9. Scientists are suddenly questioning how well we know our cosmos. Recent measurements of the distances and velocities of faraway galaxies don’t agree with a   “standard model” of the cosmos that has prevailed for the past two decades. One expert said the news, while disruptive, could be “just what the younger generation wants  —   a chance for big discoveries, new insights and breakthroughs. ” _____ 10. Finally, we’ve been rummaging through our archive of 165 years of Times wedding announcements. To conclude the project, we offer this vision of what we might be printing (O. K. publishing on some kind of futuristic platform) 165 years from now: “At first I was just attracted to how hot he looked in his robokini,” Ms. Bezos said. “I’m looking forward to being together for all the years and software upgrades to come. ” _____ Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of the briefing should help. Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p. m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a. m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a. m. Sundays. Want to look back? Here’s Friday’s briefing. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes. com.