The Portuguese authorities have detained a former undercover C. I. A. officer whose extradition has been sought by Italy, where she faces a prison sentence over her role in the 2003 kidnapping of an Egyptian cleric as part of a secret United States rendition program. The former officer, Sabrina De Sousa, 60, was detained Monday night and is awaiting imminent extradition to Italy, one of her lawyers, Dario Bolognesi, said. Ms. De Sousa was among 26 Americans convicted of grabbing the cleric, Osama Moustafa Hassan Nasr, also known as Abu Omar, in Milan in February 2003. The operation was one of the   renditions ordered by the George W. Bush’s administration after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. Suspects were captured and taken to other countries for interrogation. The program was ended by the Barack Obama administration. Mr. Nasr was taken to a military base before being moved to Egypt, where he said he was tortured. In 2013, an Italian court sentenced him in absentia to six years in prison for   activities. At the time he was plucked off the streets, Ms. De Sousa, a native of India and a dual citizen of the United States and Portugal, was in Milan posing as a diplomat. She resigned from the C. I. A. in 2009. Convicted in absentia, she was sentenced to four years in prison. Despite facing possible arrest, she returned to Portugal in 2015. That October, she was briefly detained under a European arrest warrant and her passports were confiscated. She was arrested Monday as she was on her way to India to visit relatives, according to news accounts that cited her lawyer in Portugal. Mr. Bolognesi, her lawyer in Milan, said Tuesday that she emailed him Monday night to tell him that she had been arrested in Lisbon and was awaiting transfer to Italy. He said he had not heard from her since. Mr. Bolognesi met with Italian Justice Ministry officials in Rome on Tuesday, but he said that the officials told him that they “had not received any official communication” from the Portuguese authorities. At the ministry, Mr. Bolognesi reiterated his request that Ms. De Sousa be given a pardon, as had been granted to some of the officers involved in the rendition. He has also requested that she serve her time doing public service, rather than be jailed. Ms. De Sousa is likely to serve her prison sentence in Milan, Mr. Bolognesi said, because the European arrest warrant had been issued by prosecutors there. Her lawyer in Portugal, Manuel de Magalhães e Silva, could not be reached for comment. Ms. De Sousa’s case is among several related to rendition operations that have been brought to trial. In January, Britain’s Supreme Court ruled that Abdel Hakim Belhaj, a Libyan dissident who said he was abducted and tortured by American and British intelligence agents, could sue the British government and a former foreign secretary over his rendition.