Good morning.  Here’s what you need to know: • The focus is on Mexico as the ramifications of President Trump’s new immigration orders begin to play out on border security and trade. Some of the most significant new elements are protections for children and far more extensive deportations of adults. Today’s episode of The Daily podcast looks at what we know and don’t know about the new orders. Listen from a computer, an iOS device or an Android device. Protests, boycotts and public anger in Mexico are complicating a visit from the U. S. secretary of state, Rex Tillerson, and the  secretary of homeland security, John F. Kelly. _____ • There are more signs of turbulence inside the Trump administration. The education secretary, Betsy DeVos, resisted signing an order to rescind   protections for transgender students, but Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Mr. Trump insisted, Republican insiders said. And thousands of pages of newly released emails show that Mr. Trump’s top environmental official, Scott Pruitt, above, worked closely with major oil and gas companies and political groups to roll back environmental regulations when he was Oklahoma attorney general. In the    department: News coverage of Mr. Trump has probably eclipsed that of any other single human being. _____ • The U. S. commander for the Middle East said more American troops would speed the campaign against the Islamic State in Syria. In recent weeks, the Iraqi government recaptured the eastern part of Mosul, a major victory against the Islamic State in Iraq. A New York Times reporter describes a city torn in half in the video above. Military figures carry a great deal of weight in the Trump administration, with senior veterans in the top three security jobs all from a generation of leaders from the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. _____ • The public killing of Kim   the estranged elder brother of North Korea’s leader, is evolving into an   geopolitical whodunit. The Malaysian police named a senior North Korean diplomat as wanted for questioning, pointing to possible government involvement in his death. The police also said the women suspected of being the assassins  —   one from Vietnam, the other from Indonesia  —   had been trained to wipe toxins on the victim’s face and then wash their hands. _____ • “It’s been a long time coming. ” That was Benjamin Netanyahu as he became the first Israeli prime minister to make an official visit to Australia. He was welcomed by Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull, but there was pushback over Israeli settlement building. The third issue of our Australia newsletter looks at what Americans get wrong about the country. _____ • And scientists announced a remarkable discovery:  a dwarf star that has not one but seven   planets that could potentially harbor life. “I think that we have made a crucial step toward finding if there is life out there,” an astronomer said. •   profits for Qantas fell 7. 5 percent to $656 million, driven down by “challenging” international conditions. • Even as President Trump espoused   in his presidential campaign, his businesses filed dozens of new trademarks in China, Mexico, India, Indonesia and other countries. • Dispensing Brexit advice is a booming industry. Advisers from both the Leave and Remain camps can command high fees for guiding business and the British government. • U. S. markets were mixed. Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • More than 33, 000 current and former Hong Kong police officers rallied in support of seven colleagues who were jailed for assaulting an activist during the city’s 2014 Occupy protests. [South China Morning Post] • Donald Tsang, a former Hong Kong chief executive, will appeal a   sentence for misconduct. [The New York Times] • U. S. agents fighting cigarette smuggling made their own   web of shadowy cigarette sales to finance undercover investigations and to pay informants, according to court records and people close to the operation. [The New York Times] • A small band of activists protesting the Dakota Access oil pipeline remained camped along the banks of the Missouri River and seemed likely to be arrested after a deadline for them to leave had passed. [The New York Times] • Uzbekistan released a journalist it had imprisoned for 18 years. He and a colleague, who remains in prison, are thought to have been held longer than any other journalists in the world. [BBC] • A women’s group in China, Feminist Voices, was banned from its Weibo social media platform for 30 days after it posted an article about a women’s strike planned in the U. S. [The New York Times] • How China’s government really works: We interview Sebastian Heilmann, the author of a newly updated guide to how ministries and officials guide the economy, provide services and formulate new policies. [The New York Times] • Taika Waititi, the    director of “Hunt for the Wilderpeople,” was named New Zealander of the Year. [New Zealand Herald] • New research shows that language lessons actually start in the womb. • Recipe of the day: A classic baked, cheesy pasta can be improved by broccoli, a little spice  —   and a sheet pan. • In a momentous N. B. A.   the Los Angeles Lakers put Magic Johnson in charge of the team’s front office. A   M. V. P. during his Hall of Fame career with the Lakers, Mr. Johnson called his new position a “dream come true. ” • Seijun Suzuki, a Japanese filmmaker whose surreal visuals and bold action sequences influenced directors like Quentin Tarantino and Jim Jarmusch, died at 93. • The precious cargo of a   Arab trading ship that sank while sailing from China will go on display in the U. S. for the first time. Six years ago, a planned U. S. exhibit was canceled amid ethical concerns over how the wreckage was salvaged. Down in New Orleans, the annual party leading up to Mardi Gras will be in full swing over the coming days, culminating next week on Fat Tuesday. One of the highlights is the parades by social clubs known as krewes. Riding on lavishly decorated floats, krewe members toss beads, plastic cups, coins and other “throws” to revelers lining a route that usually runs for several miles. Tonight’s parades include the Krewe of Muses, an   organization named after the goddesses of arts and sciences in Greek mythology. (Nine of New Orleans’s streets  —   including Calliope, Melpomene and Terpsichore  —   were also inspired by the daughters of Zeus.) Muses is one of the city’s newer krewes, parading for the first time in 2001. (Rex, one of the oldest, was founded in 1872.) Like many krewes, Muses is involved in charitable efforts in the community, but it is particularly known for the ornate shoes it throws  —   or gently hands  —   to the crowds. Its floats, including one resembling a giant   shoe, often have a satirical theme, and unlike other krewes, it does not have a king or queen. Instead, the group has an Honorary Muse. This year, it’s the journalist Tamron Hall. Chris Stanford contributed reporting. _____ Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.  What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes. com.