Investigations by Breitbart News into the global network run by George Soros have contributed to the negative atmosphere the billionaire has been facing in Europe, Politico reported on Tuesday. [The news outlet reported the Hungarian government’s move to minimize the influence of Soros’s Open Society Foundations and other     organizations, or NGO’s, is being “seemingly buoyed by U. S. President Donald Trump’s election victory and the ascendance of the   in Washington. ”  Politico reported on the role of Breitbart News in exposing Soros, falsely labeling the news agency an “  website. ” Breitbart News, recently ranked as the 29th most trafficked U. S. website by the Alexa rankings system, is an independent news website considered by many to be the largest conservative news site in America. It has no affiliation with the     movement. Politico reported: The American   website Breitbart, formerly run by Stephen Bannon, now White House chief strategist, has long fixated on Soros, accusing him of trying to bring down Europe’s borders, furthering the migrant crisis and funding Trump’s opponents. The perceived sympathy within the Trump administration for   sentiments appears to have emboldened politicians throughout Central and Eastern Europe to intensify their assault on   groups.   …     These efforts have already borne fruit: two letters, one signed by Republican Senator Mike Lee and the other by six House Republicans, were sent to the U. S. Mission in Macedonia in   inquiring about U. S. funding for Open Society Foundation projects in Macedonia. Politico went on to report the Hungarian parliament’s plans to submit a bill on the manner in which NGOs operate within the country. Although the text of the proposed law has not yet been made public, it is widely believed that the bill will seek to require such organizations to make public the amount of money received from foreign sources.  Israel passed a similar measure last July. Sentiments against Soros have been rising in numerous European nations, including Romania, Poland, Serbia, Bulgaria and Slovakia, Politico reported. Breitbart News has featured a large number of stories documenting Soros’s financing of groups pushing open borders in Europe and worldwide, with specific focus on using the migrant crisis to achieve policy aims. In the U. S. Soros has been tied to advocacy for illegal aliens, opposition to immigration enforcement and most recently to activist groups attempting to halt President Trump’s domestic agenda. Reviews by this reporter of the more than 2, 500 documents hacked from the servers of Soros’s Open Society Foundations highlight the undue influence the billionaire financier exerts domestically, from attempting to remake the American electorate to successfully lobbying for changes in U. S. immigration policy to funding initiatives targeting local police forces. While many of the documents spotlight Soros’s global network, focus on the hacked materials from his Foundations’ U. S. contingent begins to expose the many tentacles of the Democratic party  ’s operation and its deep impact on the policy objectives of the former administration of Barack Obama, often using a slew of U. S.  progressive groups and activist organizations.  Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio. ” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook. With additional reporting by Joshua Klein.