BALTIMORE  —   The FedEx package containing the junior lightweight championship belt, intended for Gervonta Davis, arrived at the gym too early in the day. Davis often trains late into the night, running the streets of Baltimore, and sleeps until midday. So it was his coach Calvin Ford  —   he sleeps much less, sometimes just an hour a night  —   who found the   note when he got to Upton Boxing Center, a gym in one of the city’s most blighted neighborhoods. Ford, along with Kenny Ellis, another of Davis’s coaches, runs the training sessions at Upton five nights a week, showing young people the angles of the trade and keeping them off the same streets that Davis makes his training ground. The coaches have been involved with fighting, in one way or another, for most of their lives. Ellis, 49, is a bearded former amateur boxer who has coached at Upton since 2005. And Ford, 52, was once a violent lieutenant in the   drug organization, which controlled parts of West Baltimore in the 1980s. “If I had to shoot you, I’d shoot you,” Ford said. “If I had to stab you, I’d stab you. If I had to beat you up with my hands, I’d beat you up with my hands. ” In 1988, Ford was convicted of racketeering and conspiracy. He served 10 years in a federal prison, where he learned to box. He started coaching after he was released, eventually cultivating a national amateur champion. That attracted the attention of Ed Burns, a police detective who had investigated Ford  —   and who became one of the creators of the HBO series “The Wire. ” He used Ford as a model for the character known as Cutty, an   who opened a gym after realizing that the streets he returned to had grown harder than he could handle. Today, Ford is a   man who wears track suits and reading glasses secured by a bejeweled chain, a jarringly endearing detail for someone who teaches others how to inflict pain efficiently. And he is a father figure to dozens of children who have been coming to him for nearly two decades for lessons that reach far beyond a   round. Davis, his first world champion, and the youngest living professional titleholder, has been called the future of boxing by no less an authority than Floyd Mayweather Jr. When Davis, 22, entered the gym a few hours later to find a heavily taped cardboard box on the reception desk, it was Ford who handed him the scissors. Inside was a   belt with a large gold logo of the International Boxing Federation, earned with a   knockout of José Pedraza, who was heavily favored, in Brooklyn on Jan. 14. “Strap me up,” Davis said through a stifled grin. Ford, wearing a beanie with #STRAPSEASON printed on the front, put the belt on the      Davis. The new champion posed for a picture under banners that included Angelo Ward, who trained here before he was shot to death in 2012, and a scowling version of Davis’s younger self, draped in belts and medals a decade ago. Now, with a new belt over his shoulder, Davis glowed. “I might walk up and down the avenue,” he said, gesturing to the street outside. Last year, 318 people were killed in Baltimore, the   homicide total for the city on record 2015 was worse. So far this year, the city is averaging nearly a murder a day. Ford and Ellis know children who were  —   and still are  —   linked to those troubling statistics. Children, forced to fend for themselves after the killing of a parent, slipping into the current of incarceration. Young men with no prospects other than the easiest one available  —   the economy of addiction. Davis, whose mother struggled with drug abuse during his youth and whose father spent time in prison for selling drugs, is one of the fortunate ones. Others have not been so lucky. “Kids fall out of school because they saw the kid that they hang with get gunned down in the street,” Ellis said. After witnessing a murder, “you got to go to school the next day!” he added. “How can you do a test? How can you pass?” The kids who come through the gym’s doors at least have a chance to learn how to cope with the hopelessness outside, where, Ellis said, violence claims “a body every day. ” “Sometimes you hear gunshots, you look around the gym, like, ‘We got some in here that ain’t getting shot,’” he said. Upton is not far from where Freddie Gray was arrested in 2015, leading to the ride in a police van that left him with a spinal cord injury that killed him a week later. The drugstore that was looted and burned during the riots after his funeral is six blocks away. The neighborhood has the largest percentage of returning criminal offenders in the state, said Nick Mosby, a former mayoral candidate and City Council member who is now a state legislator. “Any barometer of success of a community, unfortunately in that ZIP code, will typically tilt towards a very unhealthy community,” said Mosby, whose wife, Marilyn, was the state’s attorney who prosecuted the Baltimore police officers charged in Gray’s death. (None were convicted.) “Poverty level, education level, unemployment rate, health disparities, you name it. ” Mosby said the children here were facing adult issues. “At the age of 7, 8, 9, 10, they’re taking care of themselves, they’re taking care of younger siblings, they’re going out, figuring out what they’re going to eat every day. ” Upton, where it costs $65 a year to train, is a refuge. The city funds the gym, though for many years Ford helped out of his own pocket  —   including paying for trips to    competitions. “You don’t know how many cars I ran through,” Ford said, laughing. Such sacrifice has helped generate good will in the community. Upton stands apart. “You notice when you walked up on the corners, you ain’t see nobody standin’ on my corners,” Ford said. “They ain’t gonna have that nonsense around us. That show you that the people  —   city, street people  —   cares about what we are doing. ” Even with Davis’s success, and the national attention it has brought to Upton, the loss of previous fighters  —   those who the coaches said decided to “go left” and give in to the streets  —   weighs heavy. Ray Davis, a fighter Ellis trained as a teenager, is in jail after ending up on his own when his father was shot at a corner store. Ronald Gibbs, a    nationally ranked amateur, was stabbed in the heart in 2012 in a dispute defending his sister. That same year, Ward, the fighter under whose banner Gervonta Davis had his picture taken, was shot nine times. He was two fights into his professional career. “Every day, his friends would come here and wait for him to finish training so they could run the streets,” Ellis said of Ward. “I said, ‘Man, you can’t have one foot in the streets and one foot in the gym. It’s not gonna work. ’” The day that Ward was killed, Ellis said, he was in his car when he received the text. “And where he got killed was like three minutes from where I was driving, so I drove around there. And they had the yellow tape around him. ” After locking his belt in its case, Gervonta (pronounced   ) Davis drove a few blocks northwest and stood in front of the home he once shared with his mother and grandmother, a bitter wind tunnel of a block dotted with abandoned rowhouses. Garbage spilled into an alley framed by a rowhouse with no roof. An open Bible lay on a stoop, its pages fluttering. Davis pointed out a cactus a few doors down. He used to touch it every day as he walked to and from the elementary school at the end of the block, a child’s personal challenge to himself ahead of a career of stinging hands. When he was 7, Davis and one of his older brothers moved in with his grandmother, after bouncing between a group home and their uncle’s house. Being new to West Baltimore, the boys were quickly forced to defend themselves. Davis’s mother, Kenya Brown, said school officials who had contacted her about his frequent fighting had told her that he was “a menace to society,” but she insisted he was not an instigator. After her brother took Davis to Upton, and he took to the sport, “people really started trying him more,” she said. “He was   always been short,” said Brown, 43. “He had to get staples because somebody hit him in the head. ” At his gym, Ford has a policy: If one of his fighters disrespects a teacher or starts a fight at school, the fighter has to spar with everyone in the gym that night. For Davis, it was less a stick and more a carrot. “He loved it,” Ford said. “I used to have to bring guys from different cities come down here that was bigger than him, just to punish him, and then he was beatin’ them up. ” Davis’s father, Garrin, said Upton allowed his son to avoid the lure of the streets that ensnared so many others. But it took work. “He made a lot of sacrifices,” said Garrin Davis, who got clean after his last stint in prison. “A lot of the friends that he had, because he made the choice to come here, he didn’t end up where they at. ” Gervonta Davis’s defensive instincts in the ring, and his calm demeanor, hew to the style of Mayweather, who has taken on the dual role of being Davis’s promoter and mentor. He is undefeated in 17 professional fights. All but one of his victories was by knockout. His success presents new challenges: the thorny world of professional boxing, and the rigors of grooming and marketing himself to be a    star. And then there are the myriad voices in his ear. Between rounds at the Pedraza fight in January, Davis had information coming at him from the coaches in his corner and from Mayweather, who was vociferously dispensing advice from ringside. “I’ve been navigating him for years,” Ford said, ”so he’s always gonna hear my voice. But Floyd’s been to that land I haven’t been to. So he have to listen to him. ” With those challenges, however, comes opportunity. Davis’s aptitude for boxing is inexorably linked to his troubled background: There is not much in the ring that can hurt him more than the tentacles of his city’s drug trade already have. And that gives him an authenticity that rings true for his community. “His whole stance, his whole posture, his whole demeanor is Baltimore,” said Mosby, who has taken Davis to schools and juvenile prisons for outreach talks. “And these kids recognize that. Young folks will get behind an individual like Gervonta, more so than any policy that we’re able to create, more so than any other public service announcement, any other potential opportunity. ” When Davis won his title in Brooklyn in January, Ford and Mosby said, a surprisingly large contingent seemed to have made the trip to support him. “You couldn’t have told me we weren’t in Baltimore,” Mosby said. The enthusiasm from the city for one of its own is not lost on Davis. He and Ford want his next fight to be in Baltimore it would the first title bout here for a world champion from the city. Davis has chosen to remain in Baltimore, rather than uproot himself to Las Vegas to be in Mayweather’s immediate circle. By staying, he believes, he can honor the people who helped raise him  —   Ford and Ellis. “More than myself, they deserve the belt,” Davis said. “They go through a lot. You got to look at it. The people before me, the boxers that they lost. People that they put their blood, sweat and tears into. And the fighters that ‘go left,’ it’s not right for Calvin and Kenny. ”