Four members of the violent, foreign   gang were convicted on federal racketeering charges, some of which involved murder. [Miguel Zelaya,    Luis      Jorge Sosa,    and William Gavidia,    were all convicted on a count of conspiracy to commit racketeering, according to the Charlotte Observer:  Zelaya, who also goes by “Most Wanted” and “Ne Ne” is a member of  ’s “Coronados Little Cycos Salvatrucha” clique. On Dec. 18, 2013, he shot and killed Jose Orlando Ibarra, an associate of The Latin Kings, a rival gang, the release said.   also known as “Big Boy,” is a member of the Brentwood Locos Salvatrucha” clique, according to the news release. On June 6, 2013,   shot and killed Noel Navarro Hernandez in a strip mall parking lot in Charlotte, believing the victim was a member of a rival gang. Sosa, who goes by “Koki” and “Loco” is a member of the “Charlotte Locotes Salvatrucha” clique. Prosecutors say he’s been involved in multiple   crimes. In Feb. 2008, he flashed   gang signs at a rival gang member’s mother and pointed a gun at her while they were stopped in traffic. In June, 2013, he was involved in a   shooting where he and another person followed victims in a neighborhood in Charlotte and opened fire with a   rifle, the release said. All of the gang members are either immigrants or the children of immigrants in the U. S. and they are also facing state charges for their crimes. “Today’s guilty verdicts underscore that even though gang membership may in some ways ‘protect’ gangsters from outsiders, it certainly won’t protect them from the vast reach of the US. Attorney’s Office and our law enforcement partners,” U. S. Attorney for the Western District of North Carolina Jill Westmoreland Rose said in a statement. The   gang members were four of 37 who were charged with racketeering after an investigation into the criminal activity by the Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force. Thirty of the other gang members charged with racketeering are either awaiting sentencing or have pleaded guilty to the charges. According to the U. S. District Attorney,   and Zelaya were convicted on charges to murder in aid of racketeering. Those charges are connected to two separate murders. Meanwhile, Sosa was convicted for attempted murder in the aid of racketeering. John Binder is a reporter for Breitbart Texas. Follow him on Twitter at @JxhnBinder.