Two days in and designers at New York Fashion Week are putting their political opposition to President Donald Trump on full display. [Mexican immigrant designer Raul Solis sent a model down the runway wearing underwear with the words “Fuck your wall” written on the back of them. Other pieces featured messages that read, “No ban, no wall” and “We are all human beings. ” The politically charged set was part of Solis’ show for LRS Studio:  #fuckyourwall pic. twitter.   —   jerome_vnt (@jerome_vaillant) February 11, 2017,  #FashionWeek  —    That’s cheeky! Calvin Klein plays This is Not America and Mexican immigrant designer sends ’f***  …     https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   The Knitting Chap (@theknittingchap) February 11, 2017,  Solis also showcased a piece featuring a topless woman. The outfit’s fashion statement was meant to send a message of “sexual empowerment. ” “It’s important to have that message of sexual empowerment, especially   to say, ‘Hey, actually, you can do whatever you want,’” Solis told W magazine. “I don’t get too political, but obviously [this season] it’s impossible to dismiss. ” Elsewhere, Raf Simons,   creative director of Calvin Klein, opened and closed his showcase on Friday by playing David Bowie and Pat Metheny’s song “This Is Not America,” the Associated Press reports. The song selection left some social media users questioning if it was meant to send a message to the Trump administration: ”This is Not America” played three times at Raf Simon’s Calvin Klein debut. #notmypresident perhaps?  —   Thessaly La Force (@Thessaly) February 10, 2017,  Opening line to @Calvin Klein show a political rallying call: ”This is not America” #NYFW pic. twitter.   —   @Booth (@Booth) February 10, 2017,  On day one of New York Fashion Week, iconic designer and Vogue editor Anna Wintour was photographed wearing a Planned Parenthood pin during the Brock Collection runway show: Anna Wintour Wears Planned Parenthood Pin at NYFW https:  .  https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   TEEJ NEPOMUCENO (@teejnepomuceno) February 10, 2017,  New York Fashion Week ends on February 16. Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter @jeromeehudson.