The Carpetbagger has spent months reporting on the awards season. Here, she predicts the Oscar winners. Make your own Oscar picks with this interactive ballot. From its   premiere at the Venice Film Festival last summer, “La La Land,” the tale of   strivers reaching for   glory, has charmed best picture wins out of prize givers. It has it all  —   singing, dancing, Ryan Gosling, summer frocks that never wrinkle  —   along with a muted choir of dissenters who don’t understand all the fuss. One crucial win “La La” missed was the top Screen Actors Guild Award, an Oscar bellwether that went instead to “Hidden Figures,” adding a measure of frisson to a race that’s all but sewn up. That boost for “Hidden Figures” is certainly giving “La La Land” a bit of competition, as is the indie favorite, “Moonlight,” a surprise hit with an ardent fan base. The failure of “La La Land” to land even a SAG nomination is injurious but hardly fatal. (The musical is a   not an ensemble.) By now, it is hard to imagine anything stopping the momentum of “La La Land. ” It is heading into the Academy Awards with 14 nominations, tying the previous record holders, “Titanic” and “All About Eve. ” Another point to remember is that when it comes to the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, “best picture” really means “most popular picture. ” And “La La Land” is about something that academy voters cherish above all: themselves. You know it’s a tight race when Amy Adams and Annette Bening are shut out despite critically lauded performances in equally lauded films. But Emma Stone is the heavy favorite for her turn in “La La Land,” having snagged the Golden Globe, the Bafta and the Screen Actors Guild Award. Whether Ms. Stone really bested her fellow Oscar contenders Meryl Streep, Ruth Negga, Natalie Portman and Isabelle Huppert is a matter of opinion, but other factors work in her favor: She largely carried an enormously popular film, she’s an ingénue in Hollywood’s eyes, she’s well liked by the academy, and she has been nominated for an Oscar before. While Ms. Huppert is putting up stiff competition, it’s almost assuredly Ms. Stone’s year. Casey Affleck has been in the Oscar race before but didn’t win. His   turn in “Manchester by the Sea,” along with his many triumphs all season long, pointed to Oscar gold. Then the Screen Actors Guild Award for best actor went to Denzel Washington (“Fences”) an upset that shocked everyone, even Mr. Washington. Given that the actors’ branch is the academy’s largest, and that most SAG winners go on to nab Oscars, Mr. Washington seems well poised to win. (And for Mr. Affleck, renewed attention to 2010 sexual harassment complaints that he settled didn’t help.) But Mr. Washington already has two Oscars, and only six actors in history have won more. So I’m betting on Mr. Affleck. This category was locked up from the word go. Viola Davis could have easily run for best actress for her performance in “Fences”  —   and arguably should have, given that she won the Tony for a lead role for the same part when “Fences” ran on Broadway. But Ms. Davis is said to have chosen to run for supporting actress, a less competitive category. Regardless, few doubt it is high time that she won an Oscar. This is her third nomination, and she has already landed more than two dozen awards this season. While her fellow competitors have all gamely shown up to support their films, Ms. Davis owns the category. While there are indications of a possible upset  —   Dev Patel won the Bafta for “Lion”  —   odds favor Mahershala Ali from “Moonlight. ” Though Mr. Ali spent far less time onscreen than some of his fellow nominees  —   like Jeff Bridges, who dominated much of “Hell or High Water”  —   his performance as the tenderhearted drug dealer Juan was one of the season’s most talked about. He also brought peerless grace and elegance to his   appearances, which are crucial to any campaign. It is hard to imagine anyone topping Mr. Ali’s heartfelt “I am a Muslim” acceptance speech from the SAG Awards, except, come Sunday, Mr. Ali himself. “The Umbrellas of Cherbourg” was released 21 years before Damien Chazelle was born, yet the homage he pays to it and other musicals of yore in his hit, “La La Land,” greatly endeared him to the academy. Although early chatter suggested his fellow nominees Kenneth Lonergan and Barry Jenkins were strong bets, Mr. Chazelle has mopped up big prizes: a Golden Globe, a Bafta and, crucially, the Directors Guild of America Award. The guild’s membership overlaps with the academy’s, and the D. G. A. Awards are largely predictive of Oscars. It also helps that Mr. Chazelle is a known quantity to the academy: His “Whiplash” took home three Oscars in 2015. Until a few weeks ago, Disney’s “Zootopia,” about a plucky rabbit police officer fighting prejudice and a   lamb, seemed a   for this prize, having collected a Golden Globe and a Producers Guild Award. But then “Kubo and the Two Strings,” about a Japanese boy on a hero’s quest to defeat an evil spirit, won the Bafta for animated feature, an accolade that usually foretells an academy win. “Kubo” is also up for best visual effects, making it a very strong contender. But “Zootopia” will probably benefit from its timing: It is a love letter to diversity and the triumph of acceptance over xenophobia, a message the film’s campaigners have been pushing all season long. And the Academy Award for best documentary feature goes to   …     a nearly   television  . Though the director Ezra Edelman and his backers at ESPN vigorously insist their virtuoso project “O. J.: Made in America” is genuinely a theatrical film rather than one made for TV, the fact is, it is both. And that has done nothing to stop Mr. Edelman from winning almost every major documentary award this season, among them a Producers Guild prize. While some believe the television lineage of “O. J. ” will undercut its chances with the academy  —   and note that the Bafta for best documentary went to Ava DuVernay’s “13th” (“O. J. ” wasn’t eligible)  —   odds are that Mr. Edelman will be collecting an Oscar. Early in the season, the momentum seemed to be behind “Toni Erdmann,” a German satire with a run time of nearly three hours that thrilled critics. But that is long to sit through for a foreign film, especially for voters watching screeners. After France’s entry, “Elle,” failed to be nominated, energy seemed to shift to Sweden’s “A Man Called Ove. ” But then came the White House travel ban, which drew attention to Iran’s much lauded entry, “The Salesman,” by Asghar Farhadi, who announced that he would boycott the ceremony in protest. Mr. Farhadi won an Oscar for his 2011 drama “A Separation. ” This time, voting for him has become political, which will probably give him the edge. “Manchester by the Sea,” a poignant and at times wry tale of a Massachusetts man gripped by grief, made history this year by becoming the first film to land a best picture Oscar nomination for a streaming service (its distributor is Amazon). Yet the film’s best picture chances are slim, thanks to the juggernaut that is “La La Land. ” But Kenneth Lonergan, the “Manchester” director, is expected to win the Oscar for best original screenplay. Few match his skills at capturing and conveying onscreen the idiosyncrasies, awkwardness and absurdities of everyday conversation and life. Also bolstering Mr. Lonergan’s chances: His script isn’t up against “Moonlight,” which was deemed an adaptation and has passionate support. Whether Barry Jenkins’s screenplay for “Moonlight,” a cinematic tone poem about growing up poor, black and gay, should be considered adapted or original is in the eye of the beholder. The Writers Guild of America and Bafta organizers deemed it original, but the academy decided it was an adaptation of an unproduced stage piece by Tarell Alvin McCraney, who receives story credit. The academy’s designation certainly helped the film’s chances in the adapted category by not pitting it against “Manchester by the Sea,” which took home the original screenplay Bafta. Still, “Moonlight” ended up besting “Manchester” for original screenplay at the Writers Guild Awards. Confusing? Sure. But in the end, it makes the movie the favorite here.