ICE officers arrested and detained 41 criminal illegal immigrants in New York City, New York, which prides itself on being “sanctuary city. ”[The criminal aliens detained were part of a targeted arrest operation by the Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agency.  Altogether, officers detained 22 illegal immigrants in New York City, 14 in Long Island, two in Rockland County, two in Orange County and one in Putnam County, according to WABC News. Of the 41 criminal illegal immigrants, one was involved with the   gang, a criminal multinational syndicate. Many others were previously charged with rape of children, burglaries, sex crimes, drunk driving and drug distribution. WABC reported ICE released full descriptions of each illegal immigrant detained in the raid, excluding their names: A    El Salvador national with a criminal conviction for assault with a dangerous weapon in aid of racketeering and     gang member. He was arrested in New Hyde Park, NY2. A    Jamaican national with a criminal conviction for first degree sexual assault of a victim under the age of 11. convicted of sexual assault carnal abuse. He was arrested in Bronx, NY. 3. A    Mexican national with a criminal convicted for first degree sexual assault of a victim under the age of 11 and endangering the welfare of a child. He was arrested in Staten Island, NY. 4. A    Guyana national with a conviction of rape. He was arrested in Richmond Hill, NY. 5. A    Guatemala national convicted of rape. He was arrested in Bronx, NY. 6. A    El Salvador national with a conviction of rape. He was arrested in Jamaica, NY. 7. A    El Salvador national with a conviction of a sex offense against a  . He was arrested in College Point, NY. 8. A    Guinea national convicted of sexual assault carnal abuse. He was arrested in Bronx, NY. 9. A    Ecuador national with a conviction of sexual assault carnal abuse. He was arrested in Jackson Heights, NY. 10. A    Mexican national with a conviction of sexual assault carnal abuse. He was arrested in New York, NY. 11. A    Ecuador national convicted of sexual assault. He was arrested in New City, NY. 12. A    Mexican national with a conviction of a sex offense. He was arrested in New York, NY. 13. A    El Salvador national with a conviction of a sex offense. He was arrested in College Point, NY. 14. A    Honduras national with a conviction of assault. She was arrested in Monroe, NY. 15. A    Mexican national with a conviction of assault. He was arrested in Staten Island, NY. 16. A    El Salvador national with a conviction of endangering the welfare of a child. He was arrested in Hempstead, NY. 17. A    Mexican national convicted of family neglect. He was arrested in Elmhurst, NY. 18. A    previously removed Mexican national convicted of robbery. He was arrested in Brooklyn, NY. He will be prosecuted federally by the U. S. Attorney’s Office in New York for   after deportation. 19. A    El Salvador national convicted of robbery. She was arrested in Riverhead, NY. 20. A    Trinidad national convicted of robbery. She was arrested in Roosevelt, NY. 21. A    Honduras national convicted of larceny. He was arrested in Island Park, NY. 22. A    El Salvador national with a conviction of burglary. He was arrested in Bayshore, NY. 23. A    Colombia national with a conviction of conspiracy to distribute cocaine. He was arrested in Brooklyn, NY. 24. A    previously removed Dominican Republic national convicted of cocaine sale. He was arrested in Bronx, NY. He will be prosecuted federally by the U. S. Attorney’s Office in New York for   after deportation. 25. A    El Salvador national with a conviction of cocaine possession. He was arrested in Elmont, NY. 26. A    previously removed Dominican Republic national convicted of drug possession. He was arrested in Bronx, NY. He will be prosecuted federally by the U. S. Attorney’s Office in New York for   after deportation. 27. A    previously removed El Salvador national with a conviction of police obstruction. He was arrested in Roosevelt, NY. He will be prosecuted federally by the U. S. Attorney’s Office in New York for   after deportation. 28. A    Mexican national with a conviction of invasion of privacy. He was arrested in Bronx, NY. He will be prosecuted federally by the U. S. Attorney’s Office in New York for   after deportation. 29. A      El Salvador national convicted of driving under the influence. He will be prosecuted federally by the U. S. Attorney’s Office in New York for   after deportation. He was arrested in Hempstead. 30. A    Guatemalan national with convictions of driving under the   Rights Violator. He was arrested in New York, NY. 31. A      Guatemala national with a conviction for driving under the influence. He was arrested in the Riverhead, NY. 32. A    Guatemala national convicted of driving under the influence. He was arrested in Brewster, NY. 33. A    El Salvador national with a conviction of driving under the influence. He was arrested in Copiague, NY. 34. A    El Salvador national with a conviction of driving under the influence. He was arrested in Brentwood, NY. 35. A    Mexican national with a conviction of driving under the influence. He was arrested in Suffern, NY. 36. A    El Salvador national with a conviction of driving under the influence. He was arrested in Wyandanch, NY. 37. A    El Salvador national with a conviction of driving under the influence. He was arrested in Brentwood, NY. 38. A    Trinidad national with a conviction of driving under the influence. He was arrested in Richmond Hill, NY. 39. A    Honduras national who is considered a fugitive with a final order of removal was arrested in Newburgh, NY. 40. A    Ecuador national who was considered a fugitive with a final order of removal was arrested in Brooklyn, NY. 41. A      Mexican national. He will be prosecuted federally by the U. S. Attorney’s Office in New York for   after deportation. He was arrested in New York, NY. During the nationwide criminal illegal immigrant arrests last week, ICE arrested and detained a total of 680 individuals —   most are now awaiting deportation or criminal convictions. President Donald Trump’s immigration executive order prioritized the deportation of previously convicted criminal illegal immigrants, giving full authority to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Department of Justice (DOJ). John Binder is a contributor for Breitbart Texas. Follow him on Twitter at @JxhnBinder.