Bill Paxton, the affable actor who was a   in a string of 1990s blockbuster movies including “Twister,” “Titanic” and “Apollo 13,” and who later played the lead in the critically acclaimed television drama “Big Love,” has died. He was 61. His death, from complications of surgery, was announced on Sunday by a family representative. The statement did not say when or where Mr. Paxton died, but Rolling Stone magazine reported that he died on Saturday. Early in his career, Mr. Paxton had small parts in “The Terminator” (1984) and “Aliens” (1986). Both films were directed by James Cameron, who later featured him in more   roles: as a   salesman who cheated Jamie Lee Curtis’s character in “True Lies” (1994) and as the   scientist who salvaged the wreck of the ocean liner in “Titanic” (1997). He also starred in Ron Howard’s   film “Apollo 13” (1995) portraying Fred Haise, one of three astronauts on a mission to the moon that experienced serious mechanical problems, and in “Twister” (1996) as a  . Mr. Paxton appeared regularly on television in the last decade. On the HBO series “Big Love,” from 2006 to 2011, he played Bill Henrickson, the patriarch of a polygamist family in Utah, receiving three Golden Globe nominations for his portrayal. In 2012, he was nominated for an Emmy Award for playing Randolph McCoy in the     “Hatfields  McCoys” on the History Channel. And in 2014 he appeared in six episodes of “Marvel’s Agents of S. H. I. E. L. D. ” on ABC. Mr. Paxton returned to TV this year as the star of “Training Day,” CBS’s new police drama. A spinoff of the 2001 movie starring Denzel Washington, the series had its premiere this month, and only four episodes have been broadcast. In total, 13 episodes of “Training Day” have been filmed, and Mr. Paxton appears in all of them. For now, the show will continue to be shown on Thursday nights, but its future is not certain. Reviews have been mixed  —   though Mr. Paxton’s performance as a rogue cop has been praised  —   and its ratings have been low, averaging little more than four million viewers. In a statement, CBS and Warner Bros. Television offered no word on the show’s future. William Paxton was born on May 17, 1955, in Fort Worth, the son of the former Mary Lou Gray and John Lane Paxton, a businessman and sometime actor. When he was 8, Bill and his brother, Bob, were taken by their father to see President John F. Kennedy on the morning of Nov. 22, 1963, in Fort Worth, hours before his assassination in Dallas. “I remember just a really euphoric crowd,” he recalled in a 2013 interview. “I was a bit young to really understand later the consequences of the event. ” There is a photograph of Mr. Paxton from that morning, perched on a stranger’s shoulders. He graduated from Arlington Heights High School in Fort Worth and moved to Los Angeles the next year to break into the film industry, finding jobs as a production assistant and set dresser. At 21 he enrolled in New York University, where he studied with the acting teacher Stella Adler, but dropped out after two years to return to Los Angeles to pursue acting there. “I didn’t see any point in a degree,” he told Texas Monthly. “I didn’t see where I’d be filling that in on an application for any kind of job. ” Mr. Paxton’s survivors include his wife of more than 30 years, Louise Newbury and two children, James and Lydia. Long before his role in “Big Love,’’ Mr. Paxton was   in assessing his status in Hollywood. “It’s always a little frustrating when you’re reading a script after 10 guys ahead of you have had a chance to pick it over,” he said in 1998. “You can almost see the bread crumbs. I haven’t had a role that’s propelled me into major stardom. Sure, I’ve had roles that put me on the playing field. A lot of base hits. No home runs. ”