Responding to Bill Cosby’s concerns about the effect of pretrial publicity, a Pennsylvania judge ruled Monday that a jury from another county in the state will be brought in to hear the sexual assault trial against him. But the trial, now scheduled to start in June, will stay in Norristown, a suburb outside Philadelphia, the judge said. Mr. Cosby’s lawyers had argued that the trial should be moved because publicity had tainted any prospective jury in Montgomery County, where prosecutors say he assaulted Andrea Constand, a former Temple University employee, at his home there in 2004. In particular, his lawyers said that prejudicial publicity in the suburban county had been damaging because the district attorney, Kevin R. Steele, who is leading the case against Mr. Cosby, ran advertisements in 2015 accusing his political rival for the office, Bruce L. Castor, of failing to prosecute Mr. Cosby. “Unless you’ve been living under a rock, the message that has been promoted, in insidious fashion, is that Bill Cosby is guilty, and that Bill Cosby is a serial rapist,” a lawyer for Mr. Cosby, Brian J. McMonagle, said during the hearing, according to a report by The Associated Press. “I do not believe that there’s a place anywhere in this country now where he can receive a fair trial. Not here, not anywhere. I hope I’m wrong. ” Mr. Steele had said he did not object to selecting a jury from another county, but opposed moving the trial from Norristown. After a short hearing of less than two hours, Judge Steven T. O’Neill of the Court of Common Pleas in Montgomery County agreed to import a jury, which he said would be sequestered during the trial. Mr. Cosby attended the hearing. He was holding a cane and was helped by an aide as he entered the courthouse. The entertainer, 79, who has complained of weakening eyesight, responded to calls of encouragement from people waiting outside. “Thank you,” he called back at one point. The hearing follows another decision Friday by Judge O’Neill that prosecutors will be able to call one other woman who says Mr. Cosby sexually assaulted her to testify at the trial, but not another 12 accusers from whom Mr. Steele had hoped to draw testimony. The Pennsylvania Supreme Court will decide where in the state the jurors will come from, Art Heinz, a court spokesman, said.