According to multiple reports, President Donald Trump’s senior counselor Steve Bannon has displayed a whiteboard in his West Wing office of all the promises that he made to voters. [But until yesterday, no public photos of the promise board existed until Rabbi Shmuley visited Bannon and took photos with him in his office and shared them on Twitter.  With @SteveBannon in the White House on #israelindependenceday. Steve is a great, stalwart friend of the Jewish State pic. twitter.   —   Rabbi Shmuley (@RabbiShmuley) May 2, 2017,  With Steve Bannon and Debbie at the White House on #IsraelIndependenceDay2017. Thank u Steve for your love of Israel pic. twitter.   —   Rabbi Shmuley (@RabbiShmuley) May 2, 2017,  Bannon already has some of the promises checked off, signaling that action is underway or at least attempted by the administration. Here is an incomplete list of promises gleaned from the photos of the white board, based on the above photos: Pledges on Immigration, Cancel all federal funding to sanctuary cities ✔ Suspend immigration from   regions ✔ Implement new extreme immigration vetting techniques ✔ Suspend the Syrian Refugee Program ✔ Create support program for victims of illegal immigration ✔ Expand and revitalize the popular 287( g) partnerships ✔ Issue detainees for all illegal immigrants who are arrested for any crime and they will be placed into immediate removal proceedings ✔ End    ✔ Hire 5, 000 more border patrol agents ✔ Restore the Secure communities program ✔ Triple the number of ICE agents ✔ Build the border wall and eventually make Mexico pay for it, Sunset our visa laws so that Congress is forced to periodically revise and revisit them, Finally complete the biometric   visa   …     Propose passage of   bill, Immediately terminate Obama’s two illegal executive orders  …       …     pass “Kate’s Law”   …     of   Defense   …     pay more for joint defense, submit a plant to defeat ISIS, Syrian refugees, Move U. S. embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, (lobbying bans) Pledges on Obamacare, Repeal and replace Obamacare, Pledges on Tax Reform, Create a 10% repatriation tax, Lower the corporate tax to 15 percent, Eliminate the estate tax, Eliminate the carried interest loophole, Introduce the, Pledges on Trade, Withdraw (from TPP?) Negotiate (new trade deals?) Renegotiate (NAFTA?) Direct Treasury (to name China as a currency) manipulator, Pledges on Infrastructure,   …    .