The most important point to make about the failure of the American Health Care Act (AHCA) on Friday afternoon is that it’s not the final word on the Trump presidency —  much as some in the media might hope that it is.  [Yes, The New York Times called the bill’s failure a “humiliating defeat” for the administration, and yes, The Washington Post labeled it “a big embarrassment,” and yes, Politico dubbed it a “staggering setback. ”  Without a doubt, many pundits will be clucking, chortling, and   dancing for days and weeks to come.    Yet a look at recent presidential history tells us that such political obituaries are almost always premature the presidency is a resilient institution.   As White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer said on Friday afternoon, the Trump administration still believes that he has plenty of strength to pursue other priorities, notably, tax reform. In addition, Virgil remembers the wise words of Ronald Reagan, who had his share of defeats —  and more than his share of victories.  Quoting an old Scottish ballad, he liked to say, in tough situations, “We are hurt we are not slain. We’ll lie us down and rest a bit, and then we’ll fight again. ”  That was the optimistic, don’  ‘    spirit that made Reagan the effective leader that he was.    But first, a brief word about AHCA.  It was a piece of legislation that nobody truly loved.  It wasn’t ideologically pure enough for libertarian Republicans, and it wasn’t compassionately comprehensive enough for moderate Republicans.  And yet since nothing about AHCA was acceptable to   Democrats, it was entirely up to Republicans to see if they could muster the   needed to pass it.   Yet in the end, despite all the effort, AHCA pleased neither the House Freedom Caucus, nor what might be called the “Coverage Caucus. ”   And at the same time, as a matter of legislative craftsmanship, much of the bill was dubious.  In the words of Reason’s Peter Suderman: Okay, so where does this leave the Trump administration?  Is it, as gleeful critics are proclaiming, a shipwreck?  A train wreck?  Or merely a car wreck?   Actually, maybe none of those.  Virgil remembers other presidents who had early disappointments in the first six months of their presidencies, and, as we shall see, in almost all cases, they bounced back. Let’s take a look: 