“Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God, and afflicted. But he was pierced for our transgressions he was crushed for our iniquities upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace, and with his wounds we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray we have turned —  every one —  to his own way and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. ”   —  Isaiah 53:4 —  6 (ESV). Christians all over the world are celebrating Good Friday, marking the anniversary of the suffering and death (the “passion”) of Jesus Christ of Nazareth outside the city walls of Jerusalem, during which Christians believe a sinless man paid the price for their sin, fulfilling almost two thousand years of Old Testament prophesy of a coming savior and redeemer. The Bible story of Good Friday, from the Gospel according to Luke: Pilate addressed them once more, desiring to release Jesus, but they kept shouting, “Crucify, crucify him!” And a third time he said to them, “Why, what evil has he done? I have found in him no guilt deserving death. I will therefore punish and release him. ” But they were urgent, demanding with loud cries that he should be crucified. And their voices prevailed. So Pilate decided that their demand should be granted. He released the man who had been thrown into prison for insurrection and murder, for whom they asked, but he delivered Jesus over to their will. And as they led him away, they seized one Simon of Cyrene, who was coming in from the country, and laid on him the cross, to carry it behind Jesus. And there followed him a great multitude of the people and of women who were mourning and lamenting for him. But turning to them Jesus said, “Daughters of Jerusalem, do not weep for me, but weep for yourselves and for your children. For behold, the days are coming when they will say, ‘Blessed are the barren and the wombs that never bore and the breasts that never nursed!’ Then they will begin to say to the mountains, ‘Fall on us,’ and to the hills, ‘Cover us.’ For if they do these things when the wood is green, what will happen when it is dry?” Two others, who were criminals, were led away to be put to death with him. And when they came to the place that is called The Skull, there they crucified him, and the criminals, one on his right and one on his left. And Jesus said, “Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. ” And they cast lots to divide his garments. And the people stood by, watching, but the rulers scoffed at him, saying, “He saved others let him save himself, if he is the Christ of God, his Chosen One!” The soldiers also mocked him, coming up and offering him sour wine and saying, “If you are the King of the Jews, save yourself!” There was also an inscription over him, “This is the King of the Jews. ” One of the criminals who were hanged railed at him, saying. “Are you not the Christ? Save yourself and us!” But the other rebuked him, saying, “Do you not fear God, since you are under the same sentence of condemnation? And we indeed justly, for we are receiving the due reward of our deeds, but this man has done nothing wrong. ” And he said, “Jesus, remember me when you come into your kingdom. ” And he said to him, “Truly, I say to you, today you will be with me in Paradise. ” It was now about the sixth hour, and there was darkness over the whole land until the ninth hour, while the sun’s light failed. And the curtain of the temple was torn in two. Then Jesus, calling out with a loud voice, said, “Father, into your hands I commit my spirit!” And having said this he breathed his last. Now when the centurion saw what had taken place, he praised God, saying, “Certainly this man was innocent!” And all the crowds that had assembled for this spectacle, when they saw what had taken place, returned home beating their breasts. And all his acquaintances and the women who had followed him from Galilee stood at a distance watching these things. Now there was a man named Joseph, from the Jewish town of Arimathea. He was a member of the council, a good and righteous man, who had not consented to their decision and action and he was looking for the kingdom of God. This man went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus. Then he took it down and wrapped it in a linen shroud and laid him in a tomb cut in stone, where no one had ever yet been laid. It was the day of Preparation, and the Sabbath was beginning. The women who had come with him from Galilee followed and saw the tomb and how the body was laid. Then they returned and prepared spices and ointments. On the Sabbath they rested according to the commandment.  —  Luke 23:20 —  56 (ESV). “Come behold the wondrous mystery, Christ the Lord upon the tree. In the stead of ruined sinners, hangs in the Lamb in victory. See the price of our redemption, see the Father’s plan unfold. Bringing many sons to glory, grace unmeasured, love untold!”  —   Matt Boswell, “Come Behold the Wondrous Mystery” (2013) Ken Klukowski is senior legal editor for Breitbart News. Follow him on Twitter @kenklukowski.