Model Chrissy Teigen blames Donald Trump for what she claims is her declining health and mental state, and wants the president to pay her resultant medical bills. [“[S]o f*cking tired of this manically insane, incompetent president and this dumpster fire administration I’m gonna have to go on another med,” Teigen, the wife of   musician John Legend, tweeted Wednesday.  “[T]hat is not a joke. I think I need to either up my dosage or talk to my doctor to “see what works for me” when the world explodes,” she added. so fucking tired of this manically insane, incompetent president and this dumpster fire administration I’m gonna have to go on another med,  —   christine teigen (@chrissyteigen) May 4, 2017,  that is not a joke. I think I need to either up my dosage or talk to my doctor to ”see what works for me” when the world explodes.  —   christine teigen (@chrissyteigen) May 4, 2017,  The Lip Sync Battle   went on to blame Trump for causing the “crippling anxiety” that led to her needing to get a tooth shaved. Today I had a tooth shaved down because crippling anxiety makes me grind and rock my teeth on one side. I blame trump.  —   christine teigen (@chrissyteigen) May 4, 2017,  The    supermodel says she needed Botox to “relieve tension from constantly clinching,” thanks to Trump. I also had Botox in my jaw muscle to relieve tension from constantly clinching. I was not like this before. Pay my bill, POS POTUS,  —   christine teigen (@chrissyteigen) May 4, 2017,  In a red carpet interview with USA Today in February, Teigen admitted that she’s been “trolling Trump” for more than “five to seven years. ” Indeed, as far back as 2012, Tiegen said “I am hate tweeting donald trump, aimlessly for no reason. I need a life. ” I am hate tweeting donald trump, aimlessly for no reason. I need a life.  —   christine teigen (@chrissyteigen) October 17, 2012,  A week later, she called Trump “the biggest attention whore. ” I literally pose half naked for a living and u are still the biggest attention whore I know RT @realDonaldTrump Story will be released today,  —   christine teigen (@chrissyteigen) October 24, 2012,  John Legend, Teigen’s husband, has been one of the most outspoken celebrity critics of the president. In an April interview with TMZ, the “All of Me” singer called Trump “corrupt” and “one of the worst people I’ve ever encountered in public life. ” “I think he’s a terrible president. Manifestly unqualified,” Legend said. “Not curious. Not good at legislating or doing anything that his job requires. Doesn’t have any depth about any subject. And he’s also using the office of the presidency as a way to make money for himself with his businesses, so he’s corrupt. ”     Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson