WASHINGTON  —   The iconic blossoming cherry trees that ring the Tidal Basin here have symbolized the arrival of spring for nearly a century. This year, they will be one more sign of wacky and warming weather. The National Park Service, which maintains the trees, said on Wednesday that the pink and white blossoms could reach their peak as soon as March 14, a full three weeks earlier than normal. If the flowers indeed pop on that date, it will be the earliest bloom on record. That is thanks to springlike weather that has made a roaring early advance across much of the United States in recent weeks, breaking records from New England to the Deep South and punctuating a mild winter. In Texas, which experienced temperatures in the high 80s on several days in February, flowers and trees are in bloom well ahead of schedule. Chicago has had only dustings of snow so far this year  —   far below the 9. 1 inches expected in February. And in New York State, maple syrup producers started tapping their trees two months before they normally do. “The key thing is it’s not just the East Coast and the blooming of cherry blossoms,” said Kevin Trenberth, a climatologist at the National Center for Atmospheric Research. “This is going on all over the world. ” Here in Washington, the warmth has organizers of the annual National Cherry Blossom Festival, a monthlong series of performances and other events, racing to meet the early flowering. Diana Mayhew, the festival’s president, said officials made the decision on Tuesday to begin five days earlier than planned, on March 15, after representatives from the Park Service briefed them on their forecast. Ms. Mayhew said she expected as many as a million and a half people to take part in the   festival, with many of them crowding the   pathways that line the Tidal Basin from dawn to well past dusk. The cherry trees date to 1912, when Japan gave some 3, 000 of them to the United States as a gesture of friendship. Only a handful of the original trees remain, but thousands more have been planted since. Michael Litterst, a spokesman for the National Park Service, said the agency made its annual bloom prediction based on history, natural indicators on the trees and the weather forecast. The trees are considered to be in peak bloom when 70 percent of the basin’s most common variety, Yoshino, are in flower. In a typical year, that comes on April 4. But not this year. Given the mild winter and rare February warmth, the Park Service says the peak should come between March 14 and 17, depending on the weather in the coming weeks. The record, set in 1990, is March 15. Like much of the central and eastern United States, Washington has seen a winter of record and   warmth. February here was the warmest on record, with average temperatures almost 9 degrees above normal and one degree higher than a normal March. This year may be a partial anomaly, Mr. Litterst said, but the average date of peak bloom has shifted forward by almost five days since record keeping began in 1921. On Thursday, as wind cutting across the Tidal Basin tossed heavy buds through the air, a small group of blossom hunters clustered near a lone, rippling flower that they said they were happy to welcome early. Ryan Cook was delighted to be among them. On a work trip to the capital with his son, Noah, Mr. Cook had been monitoring the blossoms’ development online in hopes of catching a glimpse before leaving town. As they stopped to take a picture, though, Mr. Cook said he was a bit uneasy with a winter that even at home in Morral, Ohio, has been unusually warm  —   “scarily so. ” “Just the fact that winter isn’t what it used to be  —   it just doesn’t make sense,” he said, saying it was almost certainly a sign of the changing climate that scientific studies describe. “I’ll go with the scientists. ”