American mothers infected with the Zika virus last year were 20 times as likely to give birth to babies with birth defects as mothers who gave birth two years before the epidemic, federal health officials said on Thursday. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention concluded last April that Zika infection caused severe birth defects, including the abnormally small heads of microcephaly, but it had not previously estimated how common such defects were. A new study, published in the agency’s Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report, looked at several hundred pregnant women entered into the C. D. C. ’s Zika Pregnancy Registry after lab tests indicated they had probably had the virus. The study compared their birth outcomes to those found in historic registries of birth defects kept in Massachusetts, North Carolina and Georgia. It found that in 2013 and 2014, those states’ typical rate of severe birth defects  —   including microcephaly, brain abnormalities, eye defects or central nervous system problems  —   was about 3 out of every 1, 000 live births. By contrast, the 442 women in the pregnancy registry had 26 infants and fetuses with similar defects, which would be a rate of about 60 out of every 1, 000 pregnancy outcomes, including live births, miscarriages and abortions. Comparing a rate based on live births  —   which is what the states tally  —   to a rate based on a C. D. C. tally of all pregnancy outcomes “is not a perfect comparison,” conceded Margaret A. Honein, chief of the C. D. C. ’s birth defects branch and one of the study’s authors. “But the difference between three times per thousand and 60 times per thousand does give you the magnitude of the increase. ” The study showed the importance of keeping birth defects registries, the C. D. C. said, and reiterated that Zika is extremely dangerous to fetuses. The agency continues to recommend that pregnant women not travel to areas with Zika. Not every American woman who had Zika is being followed in the pregnancy registry. Some who picked up the virus during travel never showed symptoms, and some were given tests that were inaccurate. In the District of Columbia, for example, tests on about 300 women are now being redone. The Washington Post reported that lab workers there misread labels and watered down test solution that was already diluted, producing false negative results. Federal officials do not think any other state or city laboratory had the same problem. Women in Puerto Rico, which had a major outbreak of the virus, are in a separate C. D. C. registry.