As mysteriously as an   slur appeared on a house in Stamford, Conn. in January, it was covered over this week, officials said. What the house’s residents did after the   slur first appeared caused as much of a stir as the graffiti itself. The residents, Heather Lindsay, who is white, and Lexene Charles, who is black, defied a directive by the city to cover it up because they wanted to make a  point publicly about intolerance. The slur was discovered on the Saturday before Martin Luther King’s Birthday. After it had been up for three weeks, the city issued a citation for blight and warned the couple that they faced a fine of $100 a day. The police chief visited the home and offered to clean the slur, which was sprawled across a garage door. The mayor said he would help. The couple refused their offers and ignored the citation. Sometime late Tuesday night or early Wednesday morning, someone covered the graffiti with black paint, Libby Carlson, a spokeswoman for Mayor David R. Martin, said in an interview on Thursday night. The covered graffiti was discovered on Wednesday morning and reported to the city. The police canvassed neighbors, who said they had not seen who painted over the slur, Ms. Carlson said. The investigation about who painted the slur in January remains open, she said. Neither Mr. Charles nor Ms. Lindsay could be reached to comment on Thursday evening. Ms. Carlson said the city would not fine them for failing to address the graffiti. Stamford, a diverse coastal city about 30 miles northeast of New York City, and the couple have tussled over blight before. After a citation in 2012 for debris at the property, the city sued Ms. Lindsay for disregarding the notice. The fees, which continued to accumulate, exceeded $130, 000. Ms. Carlson said the mayor, the city’s lawyer and the couple were to meet on Friday in an effort to resolve that case. The city was trying to acquire the property in a foreclosure lawsuit set to go to trial next week. The couple had said the graffiti was the latest in a string of racially motivated insults directed at them, especially Mr. Charles, a Haitian immigrant. Ms. Lindsay said that since they moved into the house in 1999, several people yelled racial obscenities at him and told them that they hurt property values. Jack Bryant, the president of the Stamford N. A. A. C. P. said in an interview on Thursday night that he had met with city officials about not fining the couple. He noted that “no one has been brought to justice” for the slur, which he considered to be an isolated incident. “I don’t want people to look at Stamford as a racist town,’’ he said, “because it isn’t. ”