PORT ST. LUCIE, Fla.  —   The most memorable play of spring training across all of baseball  —   and, by now, the most watched  —   involved a low level Mets prospect named Luis Guillorme. And he was not even on the diamond at the time. Guillorme, a    infielder, was hanging on the railing of the Mets dugout at First Data Field on Thursday afternoon during the second inning of a spring training game against the Miami Marlins when commotion erupted around him. After whiffing at a pitch from Mets starter Robert Gsellman, Marlins shortstop Adeiny Hechavarria lost the hold on his bat, and it flew toward the Mets dugout. Guillorme did not flinch. With his left hand holding him to the railing, he reached back with his right and snatched the wooden projectile  —   by the knob. He then nonchalantly tossed it back on to the field. “I just literally saw the bat coming at me and caught it,” Guillorme told MLB. com. “Didn’t think much of it. ” The world thought otherwise. Video of the catch was replayed repeatedly on social media. Guillorme told reporters that he had dozens of text messages and social media notifications waiting on his phone after the game. “It was very impressive, because bats aren’t light, and to catch it backhand on the knob . .. ” said Mets outfielder Brandon Nimmo. Guillorme’s catch may have saved him from a nasty bruise. While Guillorme remained composed as the bat spiraled toward the dugout, his teammates around him braced for the worst. To Guillorme’s left, T. J. Rivera ducked and covered his head. And poor Nimmo saw the threat of a flying bat but actually moved toward it. Hoping to get behind the dugout railing, Nimmo spun to his left and used his back as a shield on the bench. Mets prospect Dominic Smith threw himself out of Nimmo’s way and on to the ground. When he stood back up, Nimmo smiled and laughed, seeing that Guillorme had caught the bat. “We just know when a bat is flying, most of us, our reaction is to try and get out of the way of it,” Nimmo said. “Not stand there, catch it, no big deal and throw it back to them. I’m very glad he caught it, because I think it would have hit me. ” The moment was fitting for Guillorme, who is rated the 17th best prospect in the Mets minor leagues, according to MLB. com. He was drafted out of Coral Springs Charter High School in Coral Springs, Fla. in the 10th round by the Mets in 2013. He is undersized he was listed at    and 190 pounds last season. He hit . 263 at Class A St. Lucie with minimal power. But according to some scouting reports, he was the best defensive infielder in the Mets minor leagues and possessed the best hands. The world saw that on Thursday.