A Michigan college student with a deadly peanut allergy was the victim of a hazing ritual in which he was daubed in the face with peanut butter at an   party, spurring a severe reaction that left him with swollen eyes, officials and the man’s mother said. The police in Mount Pleasant, Mich. said they were investigating the October encounter involving youths who said they were members of the Alpha Chi Rho fraternity at Central Michigan University and the student, Andrew Seely, 19. Law enforcement authorities and university officials found out about the hazing this week, after Mr. Seely’s mother, Teresa Seely, wrote about it and posted a photograph of her son’s distorted face on Facebook. “He could have been killed,” she wrote, adding that he carried medicine to counteract accidental exposure to peanuts. “We will be investigating,” Capt. Andy Latham of the Mount Pleasant Police said by telephone. He added that the authorities had not yet spoken to Mr. Seely, who transferred to another school, but that they were contacted on Wednesday by the family’s lawyer. Ms. Seely wrote in the post that her son had a “deadly” peanut allergy and had passed out at the party. When he came to, she said, he discovered that his eyes, nose and lips had ballooned because peanut butter had been rubbed on his face. Ms. Seely said he was treated at a campus clinic. He told his family only this week about the hazing, she said, after which she called the campus police, the Mount Pleasant police and university officials. Ms. Seely could not be reached by telephone on Friday. Heather Smith, a spokeswoman for the university, said the fraternity had not been active on campus since 2011 because of previous hazing. She said campus officials heard about Mr. Seely’s experience through his mother’s social media post. University police do not have jurisdiction over the   party, according to Ms. Smith, but the university could investigate any violations of the student code of conduct if Mr. Seely reached out. “It is a potential criminal matter,” she said. “It is obviously a very concerning situation. ” The national headquarters of Alpha Chi Rho, which said in a statement on Friday that it had revoked the chapter’s charter in 2011 because of hazing, added that the people involved in Mr. Seely’s case “were not members” of the fraternity and “acted independently. ” “Alpha Chi Rho does not condone this type of behavior, or any form of hazing, and it stands in conflict with our mission to cultivate men of character, honor and integrity,” the statement added. The television station WDIV in Detroit quoted an unidentified fraternity member as saying: “We were just trying to be funny, just guys hanging out, and we used peanut butter and put some on his face. We didn’t know he was allergic,” the member said. “We were not trying to harm him in any sense. ” Officials have been trying to stamp out the kind of campus activities and rituals that lead to Mr. Seely’s allergy attack, as university and high school students find disturbingly creative ways to haze others. Students trying to join fraternities, sororities, clubs or athletic teams have been tied up, blindfolded and sexually abused. Others have been forced to binge drink until death, and others have even been fatally beaten. While there are no official government databases on hazing cases and their outcomes, university professors keep their own statistics, and put in place policies to control the practice. According to a chronology of cases kept by Hank Nuwer, a journalism professor at Franklin College in Indiana, there has been at least one hazing death every year from 1969 to 2016 at United States colleges and high schools. “I would say there are thousands of hazings every day, most of which are not reported,” said Susan Lipkins, a psychologist and expert on the practice. “And each year hazing gets worse. A rookie wants to enter the group, and you become a bystander and watch others, and eventually become a perpetrator. ” Dr. Lipkins said that in some cases, members of banned fraternities recolonize   and operate in unofficial,   groups. She said she had no direct knowledge of Mr. Seely’s case, but believed it was most likely that the group had advance knowledge that he had an allergy. “It is not a typical hazing activity,” she said. “Of all the hazing activities, I have not heard of peanut butter on the face. ” In 2012, a    drum major died after a brutal hazing ritual at Florida AM University in which he was pummeled with hands, drumsticks, bass drum mallets, straps and even an orange cone by at least 15 band members on a bus. The cause of death was “hemorrhagic shock caused by   trauma,” the medical examiner said.