Republican Greg Gianforte defied media expectations by winning Thursday’s special election to the U. S. House of Representatives in Montana. [The race had been    and then Gianforte allegedly assaulted a reporter. It seemed his chances were doomed.  But if callers to talk radio were any indication, some Montanans may have voted for the Republican precisely because he had “ ” a reporter. That is how much the media are disliked. Leaving aside, for the moment, questions of what that says about the increasing coarseness of our democracy, the GOP win in Montana also illustrates something fundamental about the Democratic Party: it cannot conjure a reason for people to vote for it. Unless you are a member of a minority that has been indoctrinated to fear Republicans in general and Trump in particular, or a coddled member of the bourgeois “Resistance,” the Democrats offer nothing. The conventional wisdom is that the Republicans are in deep trouble in 2018  —   at least in the House (the Democrats must defend 25 seats in the Senate against the Republicans’ eight, and ten of those Democratic seats are in states Trump won in 2016). That fear is one reason House Republicans cannot unite around the Trump agenda. But after Montana, it becomes reasonable to wonder whether Democrats are actually in danger in 2018, for five reasons. That is not to say that the 2018 midterm elections will not be close. Democrats only need to win 24 seats to hand Pelosi the Speaker’s gavel. They may pick up seven seats in California alone, where Hillary Clinton won in seven districts currently represented by Republicans. They can probably find a dozen or so similar races elsewhere. The special election in Georgia next month is looking good for Democrats at the moment, and could give them hope. But right now, the Democrats have no policy message. They are simply   and find themselves carried away by the vehemence of their anger and frustration. They offer nothing to Republicans who might otherwise be tempted to send a message to the administration  —   whether conservatives who want faster   or NeverTrumpers looking for redemption. Unless they make changes soon, the Democrats may miss their chance. Joel B. Pollak is Senior    at Breitbart News. He was named one of the “most influential” people in news media in 2016. He is the   of How Trump Won: The Inside Story of a Revolution, is available from Regnery. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.