Glamour magazine has joined the ranks of NBC News, USA Today, CNN, CBS, the Los Angeles Times and others in having to publish corrections after falsely labelling me a racist, a white nationalist or a white supremacist. [Here’s how the latest ritual humiliation went down.  On Thu, Jan 26, 2017 at 12:37 PM, [redacted] wrote: Dear Ms. Mallon: You recently published an article naming my client Milo Yiannopolous a white supremacist. We are demanding an immediate correction to this statement as he has NO association with white   and has always condemned these groups. You all offer no proof of any such affiliations, thus you might want to consult with the AP Style Book on that. We demand an immediate correction to the language used in your article based on a false narrative, or we will pursue legal options against you, Glamour Magazine, and Conde Nast to remedy the problem. On Thu, Jan 26, 2017 at 12:38 PM, Clark, Meredith wrote: On Thu, Jan 26, 2017 at 12:40 PM, MILO  wrote: On Thu, Jan 26, 2017 at 12:44 PM, Clark, Meredith wrote: On Thu, Jan 26, 2017 at 12:46 PM, MILO  wrote: I’m not a member of the   and have said so repeatedly in interviews for months. Wrong again. On Thu, Jan 26, 2017 at 12:49 PM, [redacted] wrote: On Thu, Jan 26, 2017 at 12:52 PM, MILO  wrote: On Thu, Jan 26, 2017 at 1:03 PM, Clark, Meredith wrote: On Thu, Jan 26, 2017 at 1:21 PM, MILO  wrote: More pressing than being sued for defamation? I guess someone was spotted in last season’s Manolos. Like, totally heinous! On Thu, Jan 26, 2017 at 1:28 PM, Clark, Meredith wrote: A short time later  …     If you’re wondering why I bother spending time and money extracting confessions and corrections from the liars and incompetents of the mainstream press, it’s to make examples of the most irresponsible and sloppy journalists in the hope that word spreads. It’s not okay to lie about people, and particularly not okay to hurl the worst imaginable names at people just because you think you might not like their politics. In this case, the editor rolled over so quickly I can’t help but wonder if she knew “white supremacist” was a lie when she published it, which sounds malicious to say the least. “White supremacist”  and “white nationalist” aren’t like “meanypants”  —   you can’t just attach them to people you don’t like without any thought to the consequences. The progressive left has done it to ordinary Americans for decades. The result? President Trump. Trump of course has given up on ever expecting the media to cover him fairly. Instead, he trolls the fuck out of them and holds a mirror up to their obfuscations, distortions and mendacity. But I don’t quite have his social media firepower. Hopefully these frothing progressive idiots will learn their lesson soon. In the meantime, I reserve the right to bring legal action against Glamour  —   and any other journalists and news organisations who repeat this odious libel. Glamour‘s reporting is still riddled with errors. It accuses me of being a “notorious online harasser” which is only true if you’re a feminist I’ve caught lying or bullying someone else and decided to call you out. It claims I “inspired a racist hate campaign” against Ghostbusters actress Leslie Jones, which is another lie. (I wrote a negative review of her movie and said she looked like a man on Twitter.) It alleges I “instigated the sexist Gamer Gate attacks. ” (A ludicrous and insupportable allegation.) But at some point you have to move on with your life. Beat me with your arguments, darlings  —   not  . DANGEROUS is available to   now via Amazon, in hardcover and Kindle editions. And yes, MILO is reading the audiobook version himself!  Follow Milo Yiannopoulos (@Nero) on Facebook, Instagram and Snapchat. Hear him every Friday on The Milo Yiannopoulos Show. Write to Milo at milo@breitbart. com.