During Thursday’s Savage Nation monologue, Michael Savage gave President Trump a specific series of steps he should follow to solve his problems with leftists intent on “creating a false enemy called Russia. ”[Although Savage speaks in his impassioned style, his advice comes across clearly  —   this isn’t an illegible scribble from the family doctor.  In short, Savage suggests that Donald Trump go on the attack. Savage believes “the propaganda damage has been done. ” But he also says, “I will not jump ship. ”  Savage’s first piece of advice for President Trump is to fight back with his own investigations. He argues, “If I were Donald Trump, I would hire 100 aggressive lawyers, under a ‘Roy  ’ lawyer, and I would investigate all of those who are persecuting me with these false charges. I would put ten investigators on every senator, every congressman, every reporter who has it in for me. ” Savage believes that this sort of investigation would make “most of this go away. ” Savage’s second piece of advice is for President Trump to hold a national press conference. According to Savage, Trump should say he defended General Flynn because “he is a good man, and I’d do it again. ” He should also explain that he shared information about laptop bombs with Russia because “that is my job as President, to protect people. ” Thirdly, Savage believes that Trump should stop tweeting, which he calls “juvenile” and “not presidential. ” Savage is frustrated that instead of holding a press conference, Trump continues his “hiding and tweeting. ” Finally, Savage doesn’t beat around the bush with his suggested staff changes: “Fire your communications director, fire everybody around you in the communications division, they are failing you, and that is why you are in trouble. ” Savage believes that Donald Trump is “flawed” but “not a villain. ” He also believes when leftists in government and their media allies attack Trump, they are attacking the Americans that voted for him, with “  tactics. ” One thing is clear  —   Michael Savage remains dedicated to his vision of America’s future, and has not turned into a cheerleader for the Trump administration, something he promised not to do in his recently published book Trump’s War. Listen to the entire monologue here. Colin Madine is a contributor and editor at Breitbart News and can be reached at cmadine@breitbart. com