The    that has inflicted the most lasting and politically lethal damage to Hillary Clinton and her campaign, Clinton Cash, came from the investigative pen of Breitbart Senior    Peter Schweizer. [Bloomberg Politics editor Mark Halperin hails Clinton Cash as “the Right’s greatest success story. ” And that is why Hillary Clinton’s campaign has decided to throw a   temper tantrum aimed at lashing out at the news organization behind the Clinton Cash juggernaut, one that has coalesced into media outlets across the political spectrum calling for the Clinton Foundation’s immediate closure.  Indeed, Hillary’s latest desperate attempt to label 31 million Breitbart readers “racist” is easier to understand when viewed against the blistering devastation Clinton Cash —  in all its varied forms —  has inflicted on her campaign. Clinton Cash debuted last year at number two on the New York Times bestsellers list, remained fixed there for ten weeks, is currently on the NYT paperback list for three weeks running, is currently #1 on the NYT graphic novel bestseller list, and has been viewed nearly 3. 5 million on YouTube in its documentary form in just the last several weeks. The progressive MSNBC said the film is “devastating” and “powerfully connects the dots. ” The liberal Guardian says it’s “  …    a powerful message, one that is clearly designed to stir up trouble at the convention at just the moment when Clinton should be reveling in her victory in the Democratic race. ” Time Magazine calls it “a scathing broadside aimed at persuading liberals [and] is likely to leave    Clinton supporters who see it feeling more unsure about casting a vote for her. ” The film’s producer, of course, is former Breitbart News Executive Chairman and current Donald Trump campaign CEO Stephen K. Bannon. Ergo, Team Hillary’s latest attempt to trash Breitbart Nation and its 31 million monthly readers as racist. Put simply, the tsunami of verified and confirmed Clinton Cash revelations are now engulfing Hillary Clinton’s campaign. Nearly a dozen progressive media outlets and journalists have joined the deafening chorus of voices calling for Hillary’s embattled and corrupt Clinton Foundation to stop serving as a favor factory for foreign oligarchs and to shut down operations immediately. The Associated Press reports that over half of Hillary Clinton’s nongovernmental meetings at the State Department took place with Clinton Foundation donors. Emails uncovered by Judicial Watch reveal Hillary’s top aide Huma Abedin coordinating foreign favors with the Clinton Foundation, including greasing requests for billionaire   oligarch Gilbert Chagoury, a former business associate of the late billionaire fugitive Marc Rich. On Wednesday, the Democrat presidential nominee went on CNN to try and tamp down calls for her foundation to close. Liberal CNN host Anderson Cooper asked Clinton, “Why was it okay for the Clinton Foundation to accept foreign donations when you were secretary of state, but it wouldn’t be okay if you were president?” Clinton replied, “No, no. You know, look, Anderson, I know there’s a lot of smoke and there’s no fire. ” Hillary Clinton’s embarrassing and anemic response explains why she’s refused to hold a single press conference over the last 264 days. But it also underscored a deeper, more vexing problem for her campaign: there are no good answers to the myriad Clinton Cash revelations that continue to bedevil her candidacy. As Schweizer detailed last week, Hillary has still yet to answer even basic questions about her State Dept. auctioning policies to foreign Clinton Foundation donors: Hillary Clinton has not answered why her State Dept. approved the transfer of 20% of all U. S. uranium to Russia while not disclosing to the Obama administration that nine investors in that uranium deal funneled $145 million to the Clinton Foundation. Hillary Clinton has not answered why her brother, Tony Rodham, sat on the board of a company that received a rare “gold exploitation permit” from the Haitian government while she was dispersing billions of U. S. taxpayer dollars in Haiti earthquake disaster relief. Hillary Clinton has not answered why she hid $2. 35 million in Clinton Foundation donations from the head of one of the Russian government’s uranium companies. Hillary Clinton has not answered why she has yet to release the names of the 1, 100 foreign Clinton Foundation donors that both Bloomberg and the Washington Post confirm remain secret. Hillary Clinton has not answered why it was appropriate for Bill Clinton to deliver a $500, 000 speech in Moscow paid for by a   bank while she led the   Russian reset as Sec. of State —  a Clinton Cash revelation so egregious, that even the progressive New Yorker magazine was left to ponder, “Why was Bill Clinton taking any money from a bank linked to the Kremlin while his wife was Secretary of State?” Hillary Clinton has not answered why her current campaign chairman, John Podesta, sat on the board of a company alongside Russian officials that received $35 million from Rusnano, Vladimir Putin’s funding apparatus. Until Hillary’s campaign can concoct answers to those and other questions, they have decided the best they can do is “run out the clock” and label anyone who holds different ideas or opinions as racist. It’s a sad and desperate denouement to Hillary Clinton’s unprecedented Clinton Foundation corruptions.