Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump wants American law enforcement to start profiling radical Muslims and stop being politically correct about the terrorist threat Americans face. [“You’ll never solve the problem if you’re afraid to use the real name. This is radical Islamic terrorism,” he said, after a bomb went off in New York City and injured 29 people. Over the weekend, law enforcement officials discovered and diffused several bombs placed around the city.  Trump praised law enforcement for doing an excellent job combating terrorism in America’s cities, but suggested that political correctness was getting in the way. He cited the security measures by Israel as an example. “In Israel they profile, they’ve done an unbelievable job, as good as you can do,” Trump said. “They profile. They see somebody that is suspicious, they will profile, they will take that person in, they’ll check out. Do we have choice? Look what’s going on? Do we really have a choice?   …     This is only going to get worse. ” Law enforcement are currently seeking the whereabouts of    Ahmad Khan Rahami, an American citizen of Afghan decent for questioning about the attacks.  Trump ridiculed President Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton on Monday, criticizing them for being weak on terror and failing to address the source of terrorism because of political correctness. “Our leaders are  —   I don’t even say ‘weak,’  —   I say ‘stupid,’” he said in an interview on Fox and Friends. Trump warned that these kinds of attacks would continue, as long as Obama and the Democrats continued to welcome additional refugees from Syria into the United States and fail to destroy ISIS overseas. “We’ve been weak, our country has been weak,” Trump said, calling Syrian refugees “cancer from within. ” Trump said that ISIS was started by Hillary Clinton and Obama after they exited Iraq, leaving terrorist elements the freedom to rebuild. “These are sick evil people that want to destroy this country, the way we coddle them, and the way we’re afraid to say anything, and we’re afraid to say what the problem is and who they are and they don’t want to say radical Islam they don’t want to talk about radical Islamic terrorism,” Trump said.