Good morning. Here’s what you need to know: • President Trump demanded that Congress investigate whether former President Barack Obama abused his power after accusing Mr. Obama of ordering a wiretap of phones at Trump Tower before the election. Mr. Trump has offered no evidence to support his accusation, which began as a rant by a conservative talk radio host. The F. B. I. director, James B. Comey, asked the Justice Department to publicly reject Mr. Trump’s assertion. The episode has heightened interest in several related surveillance issues. _____ • Mr. Trump is expected to issue a new version of his executive order on immigration. The new order, reworked to try to withstand legal scrutiny, would exclude Iraq but retain temporary travel restrictions on six other predominantly Muslim countries and on all refugees. In his first six weeks in office, Mr. Trump has delayed or suspended more than 90 federal regulations  —   affecting everything from Wall Street to gun shops. Here’s a list of more rules that could be erased in coming weeks. _____ • North Korea launched several ballistic missiles from its   rocket site on Monday morning, the South Korean military said. The launch came as the U. S. and South Korea were conducting their annual joint military exercise. A Times investigation found that Mr. Trump had inherited a covert cyberwar against the North’s nuclear launch systems, which he must decide whether to continue. _____ • China’s premier, Li Keqiang, addressed pollution, debt and foreign policy at the opening of the National People’s Congress in Beijing. Mr. Li gave a slightly more modest target for economic growth this year of 6. 5 percent, which many economists argue is still too ambitious. _____ • South Sudan, not yet six years independent, has been engulfed by conflict for four. The tribal warfare threatens nearly every pillar the young nation was relying on: oil production, agriculture, education and, most especially, unity. _____ • Deutsche Bank plans to raise $8. 5 billion in capital with its third share sale in four years, after disclosing a loss of about $2 billion in the fourth quarter. • PSA Group of France on Monday announced a deal to buy General Motors’ Opel and Vauxhall brands for $2. 3 billion. The deal would make PSA, the maker of Peugeot and Citröen, the   car company in Europe. • U. S. stocks are up 5 percent since President Trump took office, but some hedge fund managers are bracing for a  . With the current rally in the Dow Jones industrial average now the second longest since 1928, other investors are wondering: Do I stay or do I go? • A Spanish   says it was forced to change the composition of its wine because it came in an unapproved color: blue. • Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • François Fillon, speaking at a presidential campaign rally in Paris on Sunday, lashed out at his critics but conceded that it had been a mistake to hire his wife as his parliamentary assistant. [The Guardian] • Sinn Fein, the main Catholic nationalist party in Northern Ireland, won its greatest share of legislative seats ever after a snap election this weekend. [The New York Times] • An evangelical Christian leader influential in Britain in the 1970s is accused of befriending schoolboys and then beating them for their “sins. ” [The New York Times] • Sexual harassment, misconduct and gender violence by staff members at British universities are “at epidemic levels,” records show. [The Guardian] • Two relatives have been arrested in the disappearance last month of a family of four in France. [BBC News] • If you make it a point to start your day with us at the Morning Briefing, we imagine you’re already aware of the power of following a morning routine. It cuts down on decision fatigue and can help you be more productive through the day. • In 1997, The Times looked at the   rituals of successful figures. We found they wake very early, exercise and consume a lot of news. • This month, we’ll be discussing what practices work best. Join the conversation by emailing us with a few sentences about your own routine. On Thursday, we’ll publish some of the best tips. • Recipe of the day: Try a   pasta dinner with butter, sage and Parmesan. • A writer in France who was praised as an authentic voice of the immigrant youth experience has been revealed as the   author of hateful and obscene Twitter posts. • Helene Cooper, who grew up in Liberia, tells the story of how women there upended centuries of male rule in 2005 to deliver Africa’s first female president. • In memoriam: Nicholas Mosley, a British novelist and biographer who wrote unsparingly of his father, the fascist leader Sir Oswald Mosley, has died at 93. And Dr. Thomas E. Starzl, an American surgeon who performed the first successful liver transplant on a human patient, has died at 90. • In the age of social media, going public with a medical condition “can be the difference between life and death,” a doctor says. On Feb. 22, The Washington Post added a new slogan beneath its nameplate  —   “Democracy Dies in Darkness. ” The motto was not, The Post said, a response to President Trump’s attacks on the news media, which he has called “the enemy of the people. ” Executives at The Post had planned on a slogan long before Mr. Trump even became the Republican presidential nominee. Their criteria was a phrase that “must be memorable and may be slightly uncomfortable for us at first. ” The newspaper acknowledged that the motto was “dramatic” and had become fodder for comics (Slate made a list of “15 Metal Albums Whose Titles Are Less Dark Than The Washington Post’s New Motto”). The Columbia Journalism Review pointed out that slogans have been a tradition in American newspapers since the 16th century. Consider such classics as “Daily Diary of the American Dream” (The Wall Street Journal) or “If You Don’t Want It Printed, Don’t Let It Happen” (The Aspen Daily News in Colorado). The New York Times has used “All the News That’s Fit to Print” since 1897, but that wasn’t its first motto. When Adolph Ochs bought the paper he held a contest for the new slogan. The winning entry was “It Will Not Soil the Breakfast Cloth. ” Charles McDermid contributed reporting. _____ Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Read the latest edition of the U. S. briefing here and the latest for Asia and Australia here. What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes. com.