A   gay Bernie Sanders delegate from California explained why he is not backing Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton during an exclusive interview with Breitbart News at the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia on Monday evening.[  “I’ve listened to the various speakers who have come out and spoken for Ms. Clinton on LGBT issues and by far and a way the strongest candidate, in my mind, on these issues is Mr. Sanders,” Tim Knox told Breitbart California Editor Joel B. Pollak. “He didn’t have to evolve as Ms. Clinton did,” Knox said, drawing upon Sanders’ mostly consistent political track record. “Mr. Sanders was on these issues as early as 1983. ” Asked if he feels the party is unified, he told Pollak, “not at this moment. No. ” Knox added, “as far as coming together, I need to hear more than we just that need to come together. I want to hear that they address some of the issues that are my concerns,” including equality for all. He said “equality doesn’t exist in 32 states. ” He expressed that while It was “great” that you can get married if you are gay, it troubles him that in the same stroke “you could be fired from your job, you could lose your housing, you could be denied the right to go to various businesses for services” as you are walking down the aisle. He said he does not see Clinton as a candidate who will stand strong on those issues. And certainly not as strongly as Sanders, who Knox added “has a history of 40 years of standing for those issues. ” Knox also noted “as I’m sitting here listening to equality, we’re a long way from it. ” Many Sanders supporters have expressed anger and disappointment over his decision to endorse Clinton many view him as a   for buckling under what they view as political pressure. Asked if he is disappointed that Sanders is now behind Clinton, Knox said “at this point, he’s supporting her. But I don’t believe he’s conceded  —   or at least conceded in terms of this progressive movement, which I will continue to move along with as well as others in this party. ” A Tuesday roll call vote will include Sanders delegates. During his Monday night speech, Sanders appeared to allude to that final celebration, telling his supporters “I look forward to your votes during the roll call tomorrow night. ” Regardless of the outcome, Clinton has an uphill battle in her fight to unify a divided Democratic Party behind her. Follow Adelle Nazarian on Twitter @AdelleNaz