JAFFA, Israel  —   The Saudi government has reportedly issued a directive banning its diplomats from wearing suits in favor of the traditional garb. [“The authorities have ordered state representatives abroad to strictly wear the traditional Saudi dress whenever they make a public appearance, including media interviews,” Okaz newspaper reported.  A special emphasis was put on wearing a white dress and a white keffiyeh (headscarf) during official events, the paper reported. The directive, which comes after Saudi representatives were seen wearing business suits, especially when visiting Arab capitals, was met with some criticism on Saudi social media. “A man’s liberty to choose his clothes supersedes these directives,” Khaled wrote. @judiciary_news حرية الانسان في اختيار لباسه أقدس من تعاميم قرقوش,  —   Khaled (@KhaledLary) July 13, 2016,  Do Majed commented sarcastically: “I’ll open a shop for these clothes, maybe I’ll get lucky. ” @OKAZ_online @abus3oud بفقتح لي محل مشالح يمكن تزبط معي,  —   majed (@MX6x6x6) July 13, 2016,  Bazaz jumped on the opportunity: “I have these dresses in all sizes and colors. ” لدينا جميع أنواع المشالح و أشكالها وألوانها ومقاسهاتها pic. twitter.   —   بزاز (@1Bazaz) July 12, 2016,  Abuomar took the initiative: “If only they make women who represent us abroad wear the Saudi dress and not only men. ” @OKAZ_online ياليت ايضا يلزمون السعوديات الآتي يمثلن المملكة في الخارج بلبس العباية السعودية,  —   ابوعمر (@abuomar0333) July 13, 2016,  One user said the directive might be exploited by officials, commenting on pictures of outgoing British Prime Minister David Cameron preparing to leave office: “Arabs are arrogant and patronizing, the Romans (Westerners) have a simpler demeanor. The result of this directive will be that these officials will hire minions to carry the hems of their dress. ” @AhlamAlghanmi2طبع العربي العجرفة والغرور والكبر،الروم من طبعهم البساطة والعفوية٠٠بعض،مسئولي وشيوخ  قبائل النماص عندهم مرافقين لحمل المشالح,  —   مــــايسطرون العمري (@maestroon) July 13, 2016,  Badr tweeted: “[Heir to the throne] Mohammed Bin Salman wore a modern, luxurious suit, not the traditional garb, during his latest visits to Europe and the United States. ” @AhlamAlghanmi2طبع العربي العجرفة والغرور والكبر،الروم من طبعهم البساطة والعفوية٠٠بعض،مسئولي وشيوخ  قبائل النماص عندهم مرافقين لحمل المشالح,  —   مــــايسطرون العمري (@maestroon) July 13, 2016, 