Establishment Republican senators up for reelection have “succumbed” to Donald Trump’s   trade platform, Politico reports. [The report notes that after years of championing   trade deals, Republican senators who are facing contentious reelections are now rhetorically “sprint[ing] away” from their previous support of President Obama’s   Partnership agreement.  Opposing the   Partnership has been a central platform of Trump’s presidential campaign. Politico writes, “The GOP’s unshakable faith in free trade has been decidedly broken in the year of Trump  —   with everyone from a former U. S. trade representative, Rob Portman of Ohio, to   devotee Marco Rubio of Florida striking a much different tone. ” By “free trade,” the report is referring to what trade experts, such as Nucor Steel Chairman Daniel DiMicco, have described as “unilateral trade disarmament and enablement of foreign mercantilism. ” “[T]he Republican sprint away from the TPP is a remarkable policy reversal for a party that has traditionally championed itself as the party of free trade,” Politico writes. Indeed, just last year, Republican Senate leaders issued an internal messaging memo to all GOP senators, an exclusive copy of which was obtained and published by Breitbart News. The memo urged GOP senators to meet with business groups during the August recess to tout the GOP’s vote to   Obama’s TPP. Politico further notes that for several of the senators now rhetorically distancing themselves from the TPP, this represents a complete reversal from their prior statements. The report states that in April of 2015, Marco Rubio “wrote an   in The Wall Street Journal and urged passage of TPP. ” Rubio then delivered the sixtieth and deciding vote to   the TPP. No deal placed on   has ever been blocked, which is why, at the time, Sen. Jeff Sessions suggested that voting to give Obama   authority was essentially a proxy vote for TPP. In an interview with Politico, Rubio appears to now be refusing to take a position on the multinational trade deal that he previously voted to  . However, Rubio did tell Politico that he supports TPP as a concept. “TPP as a concept is something I support. I’d love to have a free trade agreement with the   region. But it has to be the right deal,” Rubio said. Politico notes that other senators, such as Sen. Ron Johnson from Wisconsin, have “simply declined to answer questions about their TPP position. ” “Wisconsin Sen. Ron Johnson has yet to take a stance on TPP and declined in an interview to say whether he even has any concerns,” Politico writes. Politico notes that with Trump as the party’s standard bearer, “  Republicans” up for reelection have been forced to walk a “tightrope” between trying to appeal to Republican voters —  who are skeptical of   “free trade” —  and appease Republican donors and organizations like the Chamber of Commerce and Club for Growth that lobby for more global trade: The upended politics of trade offer a major conundrum for   Republicans running for reelection this year, particularly in Rust Belt states that could help determine control of the Senate next year. Perhaps more than any other issue, trade has illustrated the tightrope GOP candidates have to walk in trying to appeal to   voters while not abandoning the GOP’s core economic principles. Polling data shows Republican voters are among the most skeptical of   “free trade” deals, more so than Democrats. According to Pew, only a vanishing 11 percent of Republican voters believe that   “ ” will raise wages. By a nearly    margin, Republican voters believe that   “free trade” depresses wages, rather than increases wages, and by a greater than    margin, Republican voters believe that “free trade” will kill jobs, not create them.