On the day that the Justice Department and the FBI released first a   redacted version of the Orlando jihadi’s declaration of allegiance to the Islamic State  —   and then, after a torrent of criticism, finally released the unredacted version  —   the U. S. front group for the jihad terror group Hamas, the Council on   Relations (CAIR) released a new hate report laughingly labeled “Islamophobia. ”  At a press conference announcing the report,  ’s Ibrahim Hooper kicked off with the bismillah, the same prayer the Orlando jihad mass murderer Omar Mateen recited as he slaughtered scores of nightclub revelers in Florida on June 12. Devout Muslims recite the bismillah right before they behead their next victim( s). In the wake of every jihad attack comes the second attack: first comes the violence, then the public shaming of anyone who opposes jihad terror. The myth of “Islamophobia” is the second attack when jihadis kill. It’s not merely a deflection and distraction to avoid discussion of Islamic texts and teachings that call for slaughter “Islamophobia” propaganda cripples law enforcement efforts and shuts down counter terror programs. The FBI dropped an investigation of Mateen because he said his coworkers (who reported him) were “Islamophobic. ” On page 75 of my book, Stop the Islamization of America: A Practical Guide to the Resistance, I explain the sinister orgins of the   device, “Islamophobia”: The very word “Islamophobia” is a fictional construct, as journalist Claire Berlinski explains, “The neologism ‘Islamophobia’ did not simply emerge ex nihilo. It was invented, deliberately, by a Muslim Brotherhood front organization, the International Institute for Islamic Thought, which is based in Northern Virginia  …    .  Muhammad, a former member of the IIIT who has renounced the group in disgust, was an eyewitness to the creation of the word. ‘This loathsome term,’ he writes, ‘is nothing more than a   cliche conceived in the bowels of Muslim think tanks for the purpose of beating down critics. ’”85, Discover the Networks reports, “Although the term was coined in the early 1990s, ‘Islamophobia’ did not become the focus of an active Brotherhood campaign until after  . ” “Make the lie big, make it simple, keep saying it, and eventually they will believe it. ” Adolf Hitler said that. Der Fuhrer would be impressed. CAIR, which has been designated a terror group by the United Arab Emirates and was named an unindicted   in the Holy Land Foundation trial for funneling charitable contributions to Hamas, equates Islamophobia in America with “what happened to the Jews. ” This from a viciously   group that demonizes Israel at any and every turn. Further, the comparison is even more outrageous in light of the fact that during World War II, the Islamic world was aligned with Hitler and worked with the Nazis to keep the Jewish people from returning to their homeland, then known as the British Mandate of Palestine. The Mufti of Jerusalem, Hajj Amin   lived in Berlin during the war, made broadcasts for the Nazis exhorting Muslim Arabs to kill Jews, recruited a Muslim SS division, and was responsible for the deaths of 400, 000 Jewish women and children. CAIR relentlessly attacks the few of us who dare to stand against the most brutal and extreme ideology on the face of the earth. They go after the donors, decrying the “millions” that have supposedly been donated to   work over the past 10 years. This from a group that has received countless more millions from the Saudis. How many millions did CAIR and the University of California Berkeley spend to produce this vicious, defamatory piece of filth? There is big money  —   much from the Middle East  —   funding these subversive, Islamic groups to destroy our freedoms and murder the reputations of patriots who stand in defense of freedom. You might think that in the wake of the Orlando jihad massacre, Muslim groups would have created an action plan to teach against the ideology that gave rise to the massacre. Instead, they double down on the “Islamophobia” myth. This report cites bogus statistics, using media reports that the Muslim groups themselves supplied to the media. How wonderful for them. Manipulating the leftist media is like giving candy to a baby. No mention is made of the jihad mass murder attempt in Garland, Texas, the subsequent Boston beheading plot targeting me, or the jihad attacks in San Bernardino or Chattanooga. Nor is there any mention of the Key West jihad bomb plot or any of the many other jihad plots that have been foiled over the past few years. As for Orlando, CAIR mentions it only to say they don’t know what the motives were for the attack. As if there were any doubt. At the press conference, CAIR’s Corey Saylor spread more lies, saying that sharia has two objectives: to better mankind, not just Muslims, and to avert harm from all people, not just Muslims. He did not, of course, mention that sharia mandates discrimination against and the denial of basic rights to Jews, Christians, and other   under the rule of Muslims. This report heralds CAIR’s new strategy. Its old strategy was demonizing and “delegitimizing” voices opposed to jihad terror, and they’re still doing that, trying to fool the public into thinking that “Islamophobes” represent a movement as ugly as the KKK. But clearly that wasn’t enough for CAIR. Now they’re engaging more energetically than ever in deception, as evidenced by Saylor’s lies about sharia. They’re also standing with subversive groups such as the violent,   Black Lives Matter, and getting an   media to cover their cynical media stunts, such as handing out water bottles in Flint, Michigan. They’re also working to “enhance public sector impact” by registering Muslims to vote and getting Muslims to run for office. CAIR: cynical, deceptive, subversive, and insidious  —   with numerous lapdogs in the media eager to retail their lies not a week after scores of Americans were murdered in cold blood in the cause of Islam. Pamela Geller is the President of the American Freedom Defense Initiative (AFDI) publisher of PamelaGeller. com and author of The   Presidency: The Obama Administration’s War on America and Stop the Islamization of America: A Practical Guide to the Resistance. Follow her on Twitter here. Like her on Facebook here.