Armed robbers disguised as police officers accosted gun control proponent Kim Kardashian in a French apartment early Monday morning, making off with more than $10 million in jewelry, according to reports. [The incident occurred in Paris, a city with total gun bans on certain categories of weapons and universal background checks  —   including mental health and criminal checks. A Review of French Gun Laws  shows that the checks are so strict that they include acquiring and maintaining “an active shooting club [membership],” going to the range “at least three times a year,” and “seeing a doctor every year,” who declares one “physically and mentally capable of owning a firearm. ”  These laws are just what gun control proponents like President Obama, Hillary Clinton, and Kim Kardashian ordered. Following the June 17, 2015,   attack on Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church, Kardashian said we need “stricter legislation to prevent mass shootings. ” The Daily Mail quoted her saying, “I’m not the type to have them (guns) in my house, they scare me so much,” yet she framed gun control as something she would institute if she could “do something to change the world. ” She said, “I’m not really a gun person, and we do not have strict enough gun control laws. ” Michael   organization Moms Demand Action praised Kardashian for pushing more gun control in the wake of the church shooting, calling her “tough” for doing so. Neither Kardashian nor Moms Demand noted that the alleged gunman behind the church attack acquired his gun via a background check. On June 12, 2016  —   the very day of the deadly   attack at a nightclub in Orlando  —   Kardashian called for expanding background checks in a way that would prevent persons on the terror watch list from acquiring guns. She tweeted, “Under current federal law people on terror watch lists can legally buy guns  —   this is called the Terror Gap. ” Under current federal law people on terror watch lists can legally buy guns  —   this is called the Terror Gap,  —   Kim Kardashian West (@KimKardashian) June 12, 2016,  Kardashian did not mention that the Orlando attacker was not on a terror watch list, so adding such a list to background checks would have done nothing to prevent his attack. On August 5, 2016, Kardashian’s gun control advocacy grew, as did her ties to Moms Demand Action. She and her sisters Kourtney and Khloe met with family members of gun violence victims at an event organized by Moms Demand Action and Everytown for Gun Safety. The Hollywood Gossip reported on the event and quoted Kim saying, “Having lunch with the families of loved ones who were killed by gun violence. I learned a lot from listening to their stories. ” She added, “Life is so precious! What will it take for this to stop?” She gave a   to “Everytown [for Gun Safety]” and “Moms Demand. ” Then came October 2, 2016, in Paris  —   in a city with nearly every gun control measure on the Democrats’ wish list  —   and the reality TV star was held at gunpoint by armed men who reportedly locked her in a bathroom and stole cellphones and jewelry worth around $10 million. Kardashian’s children were reportedly not present at the time. The reality star was “badly shaken but physically unharmed,” AFP reported.   AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.