Sunday on CNN’s “State of The Union,” host Jake Tapper got into a heated discussion with former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani over Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump saying his opponent Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton was probably not faithful to her husband former president Bill Clinton.  Partial transcript as follows: TAPPER: Mr. Mayor is that normal stable behavior for a presidential nominee to launch an attack? GIULIANI: After she called him a racist and misogynist, xenophobic, I dont know schizophrenic, I don’t know what else she called him at the end of the debate. I think it’s fair game. TAPPER: To make stuff up, just wild accusations that Hillary Clinton is cheating on Bill no, proof whatsoever. Everything is fair game? GIULIANI: That was a sarcastic remark pointing out that Bill Clinton has, you know, quite a past and Hillary Clinton has done quite a job on attacking the people who were victims of Bill Clinton and not only that, she pose as a feminist and she’s taken money from countries that stone women, kill women and have women  —   TAPPER: Bill Clinton is not the nominee, sir. Bill Clinton is not the nominee. This is my last question for you. Is the Trump campaign, is Donald Trump and the people around Donald Trump really the ones to be casting aspersions on the marriages of anyone else? GIULIANI: It isn’t the marriage, it’s the way she goes on the attack and tries to hurt victims of sexual predators. She’s the one that says victims should be taken seriously. TAPPER: That wasn’t about her marriage, him saying that she’s not loyal to Bill isn’t about her marriage? GIULIANI: I am saying the problem with Hillary Clinton has nothing to do, as far as I’m concerned with marriage it’s her protection of Bill Clinton for 25 years against allegations of rape, taking advantage of an intern and going on the attack and trying to make those women appear to be insane in some cases. Also it’s her posing as a feminist and taking millions if not hundreds of millions of dollars from countries that kill women, stone women, don’t allow women to drive, don’t allow women to have rights, use women as property. . TAPPER: I just find it hard to believe that Mr. Trump would want to start leveling accusations about people’s marriages. But that’s all the time we have. GIULIANI: I think the accusations about Hillary Clinton taking money from countries  —   TAPPER: The accusations was that Hillary Clinton was cheating on Bill. That was the accusations. An unhinged and wild accusation. I can understand why you can’t defend it because it’s indefensible. GIULIANI: That’s your opinion. Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNEN