A Hillary Clinton Presidency would enact the   Partnership (TPP) and lead to a massive jobs depression in the same pattern of Clinton’s career according to Republican presumptive presidential nominee Donald Trump who laid out a litany of Clinton misconduct in a highly anticipated Wednesday morning address. [“If [Hillary Clinton] is elected President she will adopt the   Partnership and we will lose millions of jobs and our economic independence for good,” said Trump.  Just as she has betrayed the American worker and trade at every single stage of her career and it will be even worse than the Clinton’s NAFTA deal. And I never thought it could get worse than that. We will lose jobs. We will lose employment. We will lose taxes. We will lost everything. We will lose our country. Hillary Clinton’s husband, former President Bill Clinton signed NAFTA (the North American Free Trade Agreement) into law on December 8, 1993. CNN reported that Clinton promoted NAFTA during her tenure as First Lady. Clinton’s position on free trade vacillated as she was elected to the U. S. Senate and as she competed with then Sen. Barack Obama for the Democratic Party presidential nomination in 2008 she was accused of flip flopping by the candidate that later beat her. Trump continued, “I want trade deals, but they have to be great for the United States and for our workers. ” “We don’t make great deals anymore, but we will once I become President. I promise you that. ” During his speech Trump accused Clinton of giving America’s best jobs, millions of jobs to China, of allowing billions of dollars in intellectual property to be taken by China all while she enriched her own financial position during her time as Secretary of State. “She gets rich making you poor. ” Trump quoted Peter Schweizer’s book Clinton Cash: At the center of U. S. policy toward China was Hillary Clinton. At this critical time for U. S.  China relations, Bill Clinton gave a number of speeches that were underwritten by the Chinese government and its supporters. These funds were paid to the Clintons’ bank account directly, while Hillary was negotiating with China on behalf of the United States. Trump said that Clinton has falsely portrayed that she would be against the TPP deal when in reality she has and will support it. At least 45 times Clinton pushed for TPP between 2010 and 2013 as she held the position of Secretary of State according to a CNN article posted one year ago. Clinton espoused an   position during a March rally in Youngstown, Ohio according to Politico. Clinton Democratic presidential opponent Sen. Bernie Sanders warned that Clinton would eventually support the trade deal and that it would cost around half a million American jobs. Trump pointed out the many millions of dollars Clinton has received from foreign sources, saying that “Clinton has perfected the politics of personal profit and even theft. She ran the State Department like her own personal hedge fund, doing favors for oppressive regimes and many others  …    in exchange for cash. ” Follow Michelle Moons on Twitter @MichelleDiana 