Chris Christie and Marco Rubio got into a contentious exchange early on during Saturday night’s Republican presidential debate over the latter’s readiness to handle the country’s top job, and political analysts watching were quick to crown Christie the winner.  Christie tore into Rubio after the Florida senator said he was proud of his accomplishments in Congress, listing protecting Floridians from eminent domain abuse and implementation of sanctions against terrorists among them. Christie immediately went on the offensive, saying senators wake up with different sets of problems than governors: “You have not been involved in a consequential decision where you had to be held accountable. You just haven’t,” Christie charged. The New Jersey governor also hit Rubio for what he called “the   shot at the beginning with incorrect and incomplete information and the memorized   speech,” which he said “does not solve one problem. ” (Check out Breitbart’s debate live wire for the complete exchange). Analysts quickly took to social media to declare that Christie had crushed Rubio during the exchange. National Review’s Rich Lowry and the New York Times’ Nate Cohn summed up most commentators’ sentiments: Rubio’s worst moment in any of the debates,  —   Rich Lowry (@RichLowry) February 7, 2016,  I *love* that Rubio responded to the critique of his 30 sec. speech with a 30 sec. speech,  —   Nate Cohn (@Nate_Cohn) February 7, 2016,  But a large field of political observers quickly backed them up: This is already Rubio’s worst debate. Dang. #GOPDebate,  —   Dana Loesch (@DLoesch) February 7, 2016,  The Washington Post’s Robert Costa: Rubio is repeating his talking points  …      —   Robert Costa (@costareports) February 7, 2016,  Rubio repeating himself. Talking points CD got stuck in his head.  —   Michelle Malkin (@michellemalkin) February 7, 2016,  how many times in one debate can Rubio can go back to Obama wanting to change America?  —   John Harwood (@JohnJHarwood) February 7, 2016,  The Los Angeles Times’ Robin Abcarian and Steven Zeitchik: I think Marco Rubio’s repetition is actually some sort of nervous tic. #GOPDebate,  —   Robin Abcarian (@AbcarianLAT) February 7, 2016,  For the hottest candidate in the race Marc Rubio sure does sound angry and embittered #GOPDebate,  —   Steven Zeitchik (@ZeitchikLAT) February 7, 2016,  Marco is having a bad night. He is reinforcing the view of people who think he can’t stray from his talking points.  —   Ari Fleischer (@AriFleischer) February 7, 2016,  Wait, Rubio, just gave this portion of the stump speech  …     did this thing just loop?  —   Liz Mair (@LizMair) February 7, 2016,  Christie is absolutely owning Rubio right now.  Wow.  #GOPDebate,  —   Nate Johnson (@nsj) February 7, 2016,  The Guardian’s Sabrina Siddiqui: Rubio just delivered the same response twice in a row, not the best way to push back against  the notion that he’s scripted.  —   Sabrina Siddiqui (@SabrinaSiddiqui) February 7, 2016,  The Daily Beast’s John Avlon: Rattled Rubio’s inability to pull out of the talking points was devastating  —   made Christie’s point for him.  —   John Avlon (@JohnAvlon) February 7, 2016,  Tampa Bay Times’ Ron Brackett: Marco Rubio desperately trying to turn this back against Obama, not him! #GOPDebate,  —   Ron Brackett (@rontimes) February 7, 2016,  Buzzfeed’s McKay Coppins: Wow, Rubio is now delivering the same line for a third, and then fourth time. This is  …     bizarre.  —   McKay Coppins (@mckaycoppins) February 7, 2016,  NBC’s Chuck Todd: Don’t know if Christie was helped with Rubio take down, but clearly Rubio was hurt during that exchange.  —   Chuck Todd (@chucktodd) February 7, 2016,  NPR’s Jessica Taylor: These Rubio answers  —   essentially his stump speech. Which Christie calls him out for. #nprdebate,  —   Jessica Taylor (@JessicaTaylor) February 7, 2016,  Yahoo News’ Hunter Walker: This is an awful, awful moment for Rubio.  —   Hunter Walker (@hunterw) February 7, 2016, 