Good morning. (Want to get California Today by email? Here’s the  .) Let’s turn it over to Adam Nagourney, our Los Angeles bureau chief, for today’s introduction. LOS ANGELES  —   It’s Election Day (again) on Tuesday in California, and while there are no particularly competitive races for office, two voter initiatives are potentially big enough to overshadow the sleepy   bid of Mayor Eric M. Garcetti. The first, Measure S, would impose a   moratorium on some new construction in the city of Los Angeles. It has created a fierce  —   and   battle  —   that has rekindled old debates about what Los Angeles should look like and the influence developers enjoy with elected officials. Southern California is going through a building boom, and the city has approved a series of dense and tall projects over the ire of some neighborhood groups upset not only with what they see as overdevelopment, but also the influence of   special interests at City Hall. They argue a   moratorium will force Los Angeles to adopt uniform zoning plans to guide how neighborhoods should handle developments. Opponents  —   including Mr. Garcetti and labor unions  —   warn it would be damaging to the economy and throttle any effort to build desperately needed affordable housing here. Both arguments have been played out in television advertisements and billboards across town. Mr. Garcetti has campaigned nearly as hard against the measure as he has for his own  . One side note here: Mr. Garcetti, who faces 10   opponents, needs to win 50 percent of the vote to avoid a runoff. Low turnout races can be dicey, especially with an initiative that could bring out people upset with the direction Los Angeles is taking under Mr. Garcetti. The second measure worth watching is a Los Angeles countywide sales tax increase to pay for services for the homeless. This follows a vote by Los Angeles city voters last year to finance $1. 2 billion in bonds to build housing for the homeless. Both measures would require a   vote by the electorate. Considering how much money will be released should this pass, Los Angeles could offer a test in the years ahead of a key question: Can government spend its way out homelessness? (Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.) • A former mayor of Stockton was arrested. He was booked on felony charges including embezzlement and money laundering. [The Record] • Census data showed that as wealthier Americans migrate to California, the state’s poorer residents are leaving  —   often for Texas. [Sacramento Bee] • A   rally was confronted by   in Berkeley over the weekend. It got ugly. [Berkeleyside] • An Afghan family of five, visas in hand, was detained when it arrived in Los Angeles. [The New York Times] • He dropped off his daughter at her school. Immigration agents arrested him moments later. [The New York Times] • Santa Ana has set an example that other cities of immigrants should follow. [Opinion | The New York Times] • Snap’s investors are betting on the kind of rapid growth that few, if any, companies have ever achieved, writes James B. Stewart. [The New York Times] • Nurtured on the public courts of Southern California, Ernesto Escobedo is blazing a tennis trail similar to the Williams sisters’. [The New York Times] • A company is extracting huge amounts of sand from Monterey Bay. The work has been linked to severe erosion of the shoreline. [San Francisco Chronicle] • After years of drought, hydropower is poised for a comeback in California. [San Diego  ] • Video: A drone captured the major sewage spill that has polluted Imperial Beach. [Zach Wick | YouTube] • Al Pacino stars in a play by Dotson Rader at the Pasadena Playhouse. Here is why it falls short. [Opinion | Los Angeles Times] • You can blame “Mad Men” and Coachella for the resurgence of Palm Springs. [The New York Times] • Madeleine Albright, the former secretary of state, will speak Wednesday in San Francisco. The topic: “challenges confronting America. ” • The BNP Paribas Open in Indian Wells kicks off today. Roger Federer will return after being absent in 2016. Serena Williams will seek her third title. • “Jim Marshall’s 1967,” a photography exhibition celebrating the 50th anniversary of San Francisco’s Summer of Love, opens Friday at the Grammy Museum. It runs through May 14. • Dana Point’s 46th annual Festival of Whales will have events on Saturday and Sunday. There will be a children’s fair, a clam chowder cook off and whale watching. We want to get more of your voices in California Today. To that end, a new plan: Each Monday, we’ll come up with a question for you, solicit responses, then feature a handful by the end of the week. Here is one to kick things off. Two state lawmakers have introduced a measure that would allow bicyclists to treat stop signs like yield signs  —   rolling through them slowly and stopping only if necessary. It sounds dangerous. But some bicycle groups argue that cyclists are in fact safer when they are allowed to move more freely. That’s because they spend less time in intersections, where the risk of a collision is greater. Research has shown that a similar law enacted in Idaho resulted in fewer crashes. Opponents of the change argue that it would invite confusion about the rules of the road and possibly encourage (more) bad behavior among cyclists. What do you think? Should cyclists be allowed to roll through stop signs? Tell us, and please include your full name and city of residence: CAtoday@nytimes. com. California Today goes live at 6 a. m. Pacific time weekdays.  The California Today columnist, Mike McPhate, is a   Californian  —   born outside Sacramento and raised in San Juan Capistrano. He lives in Davis. Follow him on Twitter. California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and attended U. C. Berkeley.