JANESVILLE, Wisconsin  —     New York Times bestselling author and conservative columnist and commentator Ann Coulter lit House Speaker Paul Ryan’s hometown on fire in a blistering rebuke of Ryan here on Saturday in which she endorsed Republican businessman Paul Nehlen for Congress. [“You are so lucky to be living in this district because it’s like we’re standing in the Amtrak train station looking up and there’s only two trains leaving,” Coulter said in a speech just a few city blocks away from Ryan’s mansion here on Saturday. “You got the Nehlen leaving at 2:06 and then the Trump leaving the station. After that happens, there’s not another train coming through.  This is it. This is your last chance to save America. Vote for the party of America for Americans and vote for Paul Nehlen. ”  Coulter, one of 2016 GOP presidential nominee Donald Trump’s earliest and fiercest supporters, backed Nehlen for Congress here after Trump backed Ryan Friday night. Earlier in the week Trump withheld his backing from Ryan. Trump read it from a piece of paper during his Green Bay rally on the other side of the state before he actually began his real rally, and Ryan’s team was unenthusiastic about it, telling Breitbart News that the Speaker “appreciates the gesture. ” “I brought some notes so I could do an imitation of Donald Trump choking out his endorsement last night, reading from his paper,” Coulter said as she took the stage at Nehlen’s rally outside the amphitheater at the Rock County Courthouse. The amphitheater, which packed in about a hundred Nehlen backers to hear Coulter and others speak on Saturday, is downhill from Ryan’s mansion —  a large home built by the Parker family of the Parker Pen Company, which was founded here in Janesville but has since moved overseas and no longer operates in this town. “Paul Ryan said he never wanted to be Speaker of the House, so I’d like to help him achieve that dream,” Coulter said to a cheering crowd. “This year has been a very strange year —  I remember when [Mitt] Romney [the failed 2012 GOP presidential nominee] picked Ryan [as his running mate] I was so happy, I was thinking back about it, now I remember I was only happy because he wasn’t [Sen. Marco] Rubio. This year has really shaken things out, you know, former friends are enemies and former enemies are friends. ” Coulter said that, this year, the entire political class has been exposed. She went on: The people we thought were on our side, they say they’re for the working class, they say they’re for the American middle class, as you know I thought they never got around to it or Obama was blocking everything. No, you know what? Now that we have candidates like Donald Trump and Paul Nehlen, we find out no they actually hate us. Whatever, check with the Koch Brothers to see what they want. Paul Nehlen will put America first. Speaker Ryan will put America certainly in the top 5, definitely in the top 10. When Paul Ryan and Paul Ryan Republicans win an election, we don’t win. Your jobs will still get outsourced. They’re still foreigners coming in that you have to train to take your job. You’re still blocked out of college by affirmative action for immigrants. Your neighborhood is still overwhelmed with drugs being brought in, with illegal alien crime. No, it’s just check with the Koch Brothers, see what they want. That’s Paul Ryan’s approach to his job. Coulter lambasted Ryan on trade, immigration, and national security. While the Janesville residents booed Ryan’s support for President Barack Obama’s globalist trade deal, Coulter said: Ryan supports the Trans Pacific Partnership so that any job that hasn’t already been shipped to Mexico can be sent to Asia. He supports the DREAM Act, or the Leave No Child In Mexico or Central America Behind Act. He opposes a wall on the grounds that, I quote, ‘America is not defined by its borders.’ What does that mean? So if I’m standing in France or Brazil, does that mean I’m really in America? I’m in Wisconsin today —  am I really in Paris? What does that mean? Did he get some bad cheese curds? We have drugs and criminals pouring across the border and Paul Ryan’s response is to give us a nonsensical phrase from a Hallmark card: ‘Our Country Is Not Defined By Its Borders.’ Well, I guess a home is not defined by walls, electricity and plumbing, but we still want walls, electricity and plumbing. We not only have immigrants coming in taking jobs, committing crimes, creating victims of illegal alien crime, we also are bringing in immigrants legally who periodically flip out and murder Americans so Donald Trump has a suggestion for how we should not be at mass breakneck speed importing people whose religion teaches them that they should kill us. There’s 7 billion people in the world, we don’t have to take in any of them. Can we at least not take the ones who some percentage of whom are going to flip out and slaughter large numbers of us? Coulter hammered Ryan for supporting mass importation of Muslims through refugee and immigration programs he favors. “Since   to the contrary, we have taken in more Muslims than we did before ” Coulter said. “We have taken in two million Muslims, only since  . Down in Miami, there’s so many Hijabs the poor Cubans don’t know what’s going on. They think a UFO has landed. But we can’t have an opinion on this because Khizr Khan’s son died in Iraq. God bless his son, we honor his service. But as long as he brought it up, how many Muslims have died fighting in Iraq or Afghanistan? Well, I’m glad you asked: Fourteen. ” Nehlen will face off against Ryan in Tuesday’s election. 