True the Vote, an organization founded to stop voter fraud, has backed   Donald J. Trump’s statement Sunday that “millions of people” had voted illegally. [In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally,  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 27, 2016,   Trump made his statement as he claimed to have won the popular vote, in addition to the electoral vote, on Nov. 8. The claim was a partial response to Democrats’ efforts to recount votes in Wisconsin, which Trump won. True the Vote released a press statement on Sunday, which is reproduced below, in full (original emphasis): STATEMENT REGARDING TRUMP’S CLAIM OF ILLEGAL VOTING, HOUSTON, TX.  —   November 27, 2016: True the Vote (TTV) the nation’s leading voters’ rights and election integrity organization, today released a statement with respect to   Donald Trump’s claim that “millions” of individuals illegally voted in the 2016 Election. “True the Vote absolutely supports   Trump’s recent comment about the impact of illegal voting, as reflected in the national popular vote. We are still collecting data and will be for several months, but our intent is to publish a comprehensive study on the significant impact of illegal voting in all of its many forms and begin a national discussion on how voters, states, and the Trump Administration can best address this growing problem. ” True the Vote (TTV) is an   501( c)(3) voters’ rights organization, founded to inspire and equip voters for involvement at every stage of our electoral process. TTV empowers organizations and individuals across the nation to actively protect the rights of legitimate voters, regardless of their political party affiliation. For more information, please visit www. truethevote. org. True the Vote has long been a lightning rod for criticism from the left, and was among the organizations targeted for abuse in the IRS scandal. Joel B. Pollak is Senior    at Breitbart News. His new book, See No Evil: 19 Hard Truths the Left Can’t Handle, is available from Regnery through Amazon. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.