LONDON  —   When Nicola Thorp was sent home for refusing to wear high heels to her job as a receptionist in London’s financial district, she did not cower in her sensible flats. She got even. Ms. Thorp, an actress, helped spur a popular revolt in Britain after she started a petition calling for a law that would prevent women from having to suffer from what she considered outdated and sexist dress codes at the office. In her case, she had been told that her shoes needed to be a minimum of two inches high. On Monday, more than two years after Ms. Thorp was sent home over her shoes, members of Parliament called on the government to tighten the rules so British women would never again be forced to wear high heels at the office. “What we found shocked us,” Helen Jones, a member of Parliament for the Labour Party and chairwoman of the petitions committee dealing with the issue, told fellow lawmakers. She said British women were enduring double standards in the workplace that belonged more in the 1850s than in modern times. Britain’s 2010 Equality Act prohibits discrimination in the workplace on the basis of gender, age or sexual orientation. But Ms. Jones said at a parliamentary hearing on Monday that the law needed updating. She said that after Ms. Thorp came forward, dozens of women said they had been forced to wear high heels at work, sometimes until their feet bled or they could no longer walk. Invoking experts in podiatry and citing various studies, Ms. Jones said that women who wear high heels for long periods of time suffer from bunions, ankle sprains and a reduction of balance that lasts into old age. She said one woman who worked in retail had testified that she had been asked to unbutton her blouse over Christmas to increase sales. Others said their employers had required them to dye their hair blond, wear nail polish or constantly reapply makeup. Two parliamentary committees set up to investigate the issue concluded in January that Portico, the outsourcing firm that had insisted Ms. Thorp wear heels, had broken the law. (Portico rewrote its code almost immediately after the issue was raised by Ms. Thorp.) Ms. Thorp has become a popular hero of sorts in Britain and beyond, and dozens of professional women have posted photographs of themselves on Twitter, proudly wearing flats. This year, Samantha Power, the former United States ambassador to the United Nations, added her voice to the debate. “The next petition,” she wrote on Twitter, “should be one requiring men to wear high heels for a 9 hour shift before they insist women do. ”