U. S. Border Patrol agents in New Mexico arrested two previously deported felons who had   the U. S. illegally. The criminal illegal aliens had been previously convicted attempted murder and sex crimes. A drug smuggling operation was also shut down. [Border Patrol agents observed a set of fresh footprints in a known human smuggling area on Monday. Agents counted six sets of footprints leading north from the New   border in the desert south of Rodeo, information provided to Breitbart Texas by U. S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) revealed.  Agents tracked the six suspects and eventually located them as the illegal aliens attempted to hide in the brush. The six individuals were arrested and taken to the Lordsburg Station where they were processed. Agents identified one of the men as a previously deported criminal illegal alien. That man,    Adan Jimenez Serrano, a Mexican national, was found to have an extensive criminal history. Jimenez Serrano had previously been convicted of “Attempted Murder and Child Cruelty, and Willful Cruelty to a Child” and had served 11 years in prison. He is being held in custody pending prosecution as an aggravated felon and will be deported following the completion of that process, the CBP statement revealed. Border Patrol agents received a call from a private citizen near Rodeo about a suspicious person. Responding to the call, agents found a man from El Salvador who they later learned had entered the U. S. illegally on May 30. He was also taken to the Lordsburg Station for processing where it was learned the    Obdulio Adolfo Pacheco Sandoval had previous convictions involving “Sex   School” in addition to other crimes the CBP stated. Pacheco will also be processed as an aggravated felon and will be deported after prosecution. Lordsburg Border Patrol agents, later that same day, came across a group of five men who were allegedly smuggling marijuana into the U. S. The agents discovered footprints in the desert near Playas, New Mexico. They tracked the suspects and eventually discovered five men hiding in the brush. The agents suspected the men are “undocumented immigrants”. They also found three makeshift backpacks filled with marijuana nearby. The five men were arrested and the burlap bags of marijuana were seized. All were taken to the Lordsburg Station for processing and possible prosecution. The marijuana weighed 142 pounds and was given an estimated street value of $113, 680. The Lordsburg Station is part of the El Paso Sector. Agents in that sector have seized over 51, 000 pounds of marijuana and other controlled substances during this fiscal year which began in Oct 2016. The continued arrest of previously deported criminal illegal aliens reveals the failure of the federal government to properly secure the border. While, in this case, the criminals were caught close to the border, often they are not detected while crossing and move freely across the U. S. to commit other and often more heinous crimes including murder and rape. Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas and is a member of the original Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX.