Speaker of the House Paul Ryan has refuted Donald Trump’s claims that the upcoming presidential election will be rigged against him, saying that he is “confident” that there will be no foul play in the electoral process. [“Our democracy relies on confidence in election results, and the speaker is fully confident the states will carry out this election with integrity,”  Ryan’s press secretary told BuzzFeed.  This follows Trump’s claims at a rally in North Carolina yesterday that the “whole election is being rigged,” adding that “the corrupt media is trying to do everything in their power to stop our movement. They don’t want this happening. ” Trump later expressed his outrage on Twitter at the media and its overwhelming support for Hillary Clinton, accusing them of “pushing false and unsubstantiated charges, and outright lies, in order to elect Crooked Hillary,” following the emergence of a series of unsubstantiated claims of sexual assault against him. This election is being rigged by the media pushing false and unsubstantiated charges, and outright lies, in order to elect Crooked Hillary!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 15, 2016,  He added that the claims were “100% fabricated and   charges, pushed strongly by the media and the Clinton Campaign, may poison the minds of the American Voter. ” 100% fabricated and   charges, pushed strongly by the media and the Clinton Campaign, may poison the minds of the American Voter. FIX!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 15, 2016,  His feelings were later endorsed by Sen. Jeff Sessions, who told a crowd in his home state of Alabama that “they will try to rig this election, and they will not succeed. ” The Clinton campaign responded to the claims in a statement, describing Trump’s claims as “shameful attempts to undermine an election weeks before it happens. ” “Participation in the system —  and particularly voting —  should be encouraged, not dismissed or undermined because a candidate is afraid he’s going to lose,” the campaign continued. You can follow Ben Kew on Facebook, on Twitter at @ben_kew, or email him at bkew@breitbart. com