PALM BEACH, FLORIDA —   Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump said Tuesday night that he has helped unify the Republican party and expand its reach. [“I’m a unifier,” Trump said at a press conference located in his white and gold ballroom at   . “Once we get all of this finished, I’m going after one person and that’s Hillary Clinton. ”  Trump said that he isn’t concerned with the Republican establishment’s efforts to try to stop his momentum. “They can always do that and they’ll just lose everything and that would just be the work of a loser,” Trump said. “I will say this —  look, we’ve expanded the Republican Party. ” “Our party is expanding and all you have to do is take a look at the primary states where I’ve won,” Trump added. “We’ve gone from one number to a much larger number. That hasn’t happened to the Republican Party in many, many decades. So I think we’re going to be more inclusive, more unified and a much bigger party and I think we’re going to win in November. ” Trump was asked about the recent criticism aimed at Trump from Rep. Paul Ryan ( ) and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell ( .) “I’m going to get along great with Congress, Okay? Paul Ryan, I don’t know him well, but I’m sure I’m going to get along great with him, and if I don’t? He’s gonna have to pay a big price. ” Trump also went after the Republican establishment’s favorite candidate, Sen. Marco Rubio ( ) calling him a “little senator” and “lightweight. ” “We’ve got about a   lead,” Trump said. “I know that a lot of groups and special interests and lobbyists who want to have their little senator do exactly as they want, they’re going to put $20 or $25 million into it over the next two weeks and frankly that’s fine. If he wins they’ll have total control, but he’s not going anywhere anyway. ” Trump added that it was a, “very tough night for Marco Rubio” and compared him to Don Rickles. “Look, I always liked Marco until about last week ago, but he decided to go hostile  —   he decided to become Don Rickles,” Trump said. “But Don Rickles has a lot more talent,” he added. “And honestly, I did —  I always liked him,” Trump said of Rubio. “But somebody told him you’re losing very badly, the only way you can possibly win, take the Hail Mary, they called it a Hail Mary  …     it has hurt him. ”