Hillary Clinton is not only an “enabler,” she is a “terrorist” who “terrorizes” her husband’s alleged lovers and women who accuse him of sexual assault, says former Dallas lawyer Dolly Kyle, who says she had a   affair with Bill Clinton. [In an interview, Kyle claimed that “Billy” Clinton, as she called him, once boasted to her that he had had sex with about 2, 000 women.  She described Clinton as a “sex addict” who has some “sick, sick need” to “control women. ”  “Aaron, Hillary is an enabler is about the nicest thing you can say about her,” stated Kyle when asked about a statement last Friday from Donald Trump, who slammed Hillary Clinton as an “unbelievably nasty, mean enabler” who “destroyed” the lives of her husband’s mistresses and alleged victims. Continued Kyle: “The fact of the matter is Hillary is a terrorist. I invite you to look up the definition of terrorism. It is the use of violence, threats, or intimidation to achieve a political aim.   …     That’s what terrorism is. It changes people’s lives by changing their decisions about what they would otherwise do. And these women who might otherwise speak up are so afraid that they won’t say anything. ” Kyle alleged that there are many other Clinton lovers and purported assault victims who would likely speak out, but who instead “are cowering in fear because of the terrorism. ” Kyle was speaking in an interview set to air Sunday night on this reporter’s weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio,” broadcast on New York’s AM 970 The Answer and NewsTalk 990 AM in Philadelphia. ABC News previously summarized Kyle’s affair allegations (at the time she went by the name Dolly Kyle Browning): Browning says she went to high school with Bill Clinton  …     in Hot Springs, Ark. in the 1960s. She alleged she became friends with the future president and carried on an extramarital sexual affair with him from the   until roughly 1991. Kyle’s family has long been intertwined with the Clinton’s, she says. Her brother was a Clinton associate who helped campaign for Bill Clinton from the 1970’s through his presidential run and even flew him to multiple  events in the 1970’s, Kyle stated. Kyle is the author of the forthcoming book, “Hillary the Other Woman: A Political Memoir. ”  The book’s forward is written by David P. Schippers, an attorney who served as chief investigative counsel for the U. S. House Judicial Committee for the Clinton Impeachment. Schippers writes that his committee conducted “lengthy and specific investigations” that found Kyle to be so credible that she was to serve as the chief witness at the anticipated Senate trial if the Senate had decided to impeach Clinton. “Based upon my knowledge of her character and integrity, I can say without qualification that Dolly Kyle’s word is as solid as gold,” Schippers wrote. ‘2, 000 Women’ Meanwhile, during the interview, Kyle told this reporter that Clinton once admitted to her that he had sex with about 2, 000 women. She said the admission came in response to a claim from basketball star Wilt Chamberlain, who wrote in his 1991 book, A View From Above, that he slept with 20, 000 different women. Kyle stated: I want to put this into perspective about the number of women. You are probably too young to remember, but a couple of decades ago, the basketball star Wilt Chamberlain said that he had had sex with 20, 000 women. And Billy and I were together about that time and we were talking about that. And Billy, with some admiration and a little disappointment in his voice said, “That’s ten times more women than I’ve had. ” Do the math, people. That equals 2, 000 and that’s what he admitted to me. It might have been a slight exaggeration but it was certainly more than a couple. Kyle used that number to suggest that it was difficult to believe that Hillary wasn’t aware of Bill’s alleged womanizing. If he had sex with 2, 000 women or even 200 women, but probably 2, 000 is closer, and Hillary was married to him. If she didn’t know what he was doing than what’s wrong with her brain? Certainly she’s an enabler, but worse than that. She’s a  .   …     Hillary had to know what was going on and she latched on to his coattails to get herself to the White House, which is the plan that they are following. She added: “And I will say this, if Billy Clinton has had sex with 2, 000 women and we know about a dozen of us, where are the rest? Well I’ll tell you where they are. They are cowering in fear because of the terrorism. ” The 2, 000 number is similar to a figure provided by Linda Tripp, a pivotal figure in the Monica Lewinsky scandal. In an exclusive interview on this reporter’s radio show in January, Tripp said it was common knowledge while she worked in the West Wing that Clinton had affairs with “thousands of women. ” ‘Sex Addict’ Kyle stated Bill Clinton “admitted to me that he was a sex addict. ” She said this admission was the reason she was subpoenaed for Paula Jones’s sexual harassment lawsuit against Clinton. “His sexual addiction explains everything,” added Kyle.  “You would think that a guy who is a governor and who is nice looking and articulate and all that and then president would not have to sexually assault someone, but that goes back to the addiction. It’s not just plain sex. It’s not just a physical attraction. It is some sick, sick need that he has to control women. ” Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio. ” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.