The once wholesome Miley Cyrus has partnered with feminist artist Marilyn Minter to raise funds for Planned Parenthood, the abortion business announced Thursday in New York. [Today @ELLEmagazine: @MileyCyrus x @MinterMarilyn x @marcjacobs = a @PPact party in the USA! https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Faran Krentcil (@FaranKrentcil) April 14, 2016,   Minter photographed Cyrus, now 23, as if she was behind a steamy shower door. Only 50 of the limited edition prints are being sold at Artsy for $5, 500 each, with 100 percent of the proceeds supporting Planned Parenthood. For those with a smaller piggy bank, Marc Jacobs will sell   featuring other more sexually provocative images from Minter’s session with Cyrus, including “Miley Hearts Planned Parenthood,” and “Pro Choice Miley. ” The cost of the   is $60 each and will be available at Marc Jacobs shops on May 16. Soon 2 be Unveiled pic. twitter.   —   Miley Ray Cyrus (@MileyCyrus) April 13, 2016,  As Artsy reports, Minter  —   now in her 60s  —   has been known for her “depictions of women in the throes of sexual pleasure or adorned with dirt and diamonds” since the 1970s. A supporter of both the LGBT agenda and abortion rights, she joined forces with Planned Parenthood last year for its most lucrative benefit auction, which raised $2. 3 million for the abortion business from the sale of works by various artists. As Artnet reports, Minter earned Planned Parenthood’s Woman of Valor award. “This is a really vital time, I think,” the artist said during her acceptance speech. “I want Planned Parenthood to start coming out of the closet, and I want to take our cues and inspiration from the   movement. ” Minter, who designed Planned Parenthood pins that say, “Don’t F**K With Me, Don’t F**K Without Us,” says she chose to photograph Cyrus because “she’s an activist” and “she has 40. 5 million Instagram followers. ” . @MinterMarilyn’s pins supporting @PPAct are now available via #ShoottheLobster https:  .  #ObjetdArt pic. twitter.   —   Interview Magazine (@InterviewMag) April 15, 2016,  “She’s been famous since she was 11 and she’s a great artist, so she doesn’t care about making money —  she wants to give back,” she continued. “She founded the Happy Hippie Foundation, which supports LGBTQ youth. She flies commercial because she’s conscious of her carbon footprint. Now she’s going to help us with Planned Parenthood. ” Asked by Artsy about why she chose Planned Parenthood as her charity, Minter replied: That was 2014, and laws were being passed that were shaving women’s right to make their own choices with their bodies. We hadn’t had to worry about that kind of thing since Bill Clinton was elected —  we thought that war was over. Laurie, Cindy, and I —  and so many others —  worked so hard for abortion rights in the ’70s and ’80s, and all of a sudden that work started to unravel. Planned Parenthood has been attacked more in the last 2 years than in the last 20. In addition to states passing more laws banning abortion after the fifth month of pregnancy, requiring higher levels of safety in abortion clinics, and eliminating taxpayer funding from the abortion group, Planned Parenthood is still reeling from a series of videos exposing its apparent practices of selling the body parts of babies aborted in its clinics and altering the positions of babies during abortion in order to be able to harvest the most intact organs. Though Planned Parenthood has denied any wrongdoing in its sale of body parts, the abortion business also released a statement in October announcing it will no longer accept payments for aborted fetal tissue. The organization and its leftwing media supporters continue to insist the videos, produced by the Center for Medical Progress (CMP) were “deceptively edited. ” However, a Democrat opposition research firm named Fusion  —   hired by Planned Parenthood itself to review the videos  —   said while their analysts observed the videos had been edited, “The analysis did not reveal widespread evidence of substantive video manipulation. ” Additionally, Fusion noted, “[A]nalysts found no evidence that CMP inserted dialogue not spoken by Planned Parenthood staff. ” An analysis by Coalfire, a   forensics company hired by Alliance Defending Freedom, found that the videos were “not manipulated” and that they are “authentic. ” The great @mintermarilyn being honored by Planned Parenthood for her important advocacy for the  …     https:  .   —   Nancy Spector (@nespector) April 15, 2016,  Looking back on the feminist influences in her life, Minter said she has been an activist since high school, when she was “always getting kicked out of class and in the dean’s office. ” “Then it was Civil Rights, and later it was the Vietnam War,” she recalled. “I was there when they shut down the Pentagon I’ve been going on protest marches my whole life   …     And now, this fight against controlling and policing women’s bodies feels like a war. ” Minter, who said she was “on cloud nine” when Obama was elected president, explained she was “incensed” when she heard on the radio that some Planned Parenthood clinics were closing down due to their failure to meet the new safety laws some states have passed. “But soon after, people —  and public figures —  started getting behind Planned Parenthood publicly,” she said. “Lena Dunham was one of the first, and all the women who contributed to her PSA, and then Miley [Cyrus] and now Marc [Jacobs]. Maybe he’ll convince other companies to support, too. ” Most young women  —   and the general population of the United States  —   are no longer as supportive of abortion as were the old guard feminists in the 60s and 70s. A recent Marist College Institute for Public Opinion poll found a full 81 percent of Americans favor some restrictions on abortion  —   including limiting the procedure after the first three months  —   and a continued ban on public funding of abortion. In the survey of 1, 700 Americans, even 66 percent of respondents who identify themselves as   say, “Abortion should be allowed, at most, in the first trimester, in cases of rape, incest or to save the life of the mother, or never permitted. ” Minter said she will likely do a fundraiser for Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign. Clinton has already been endorsed in the primary by Planned Parenthood and much of the abortion industry.