The Dutch journalists who were attacked by Calais migrants in January have released a shocking new video displaying the censorious nature of the open borders campaigners who “help” migrants in the camps in Northern France. [Teun Voeten, who was attacked and thrown into a tent while three men pinned him down in the Calais Jungle Camp, has revealed how ‘No Borders Solidarity Network’ campaigners attempt to stop journalists interviewing them, and migrants, and getting a full look into the camps in France.  The network  —   which includes Calais Migrant Solidarity, the advocacy group ‘ ’ as well as organisations like ‘Stop G4S’  —   work closely with government funded organisations like the Refugee Council, and are also closely linked to the     activist networks which masquerade as think tanks and charities. Examples include Asylum Aid, Hope Not Hate, and Southall Black Sisters. Now, Mr. Voeten has exposed how censorious, British activists with seemingly limited vocabularies, are attempting to stop news reporting in the area. In the video above, Mr. Voeten is told when entering the caravan camp reserved for Western activists, “  …    we don’t have journalists here”. The activist continues, “The relationship we have with people is like, can be really like, compromised by having journalists around”. Another activist tells the Vanity Fair, New Yorker, New York Times, National Geographic, Newsweek, and Time videographer, who has worked with international organisations like Human Rights Watch, Médecins sans frontières, UNHCR, and Amnesty International, “Like, just listen, like, it’s been decided by the group that like, um, we, because of our relationships with people  …     are built on trust  …     and like, a lot of them and like  …      I dont need to give specific examples because it has happened  …     of journalists coming in and manipulating their stories. ” The conversation continues, with more uses of the word “like” than any concrete evidence given by the activists of stories being manipulated. At one point Mr. Voeten asks, “Have you been misquoted in certain papers?” “I don’t know, but like the point like, this isn’t like, but the point is like, that we, um, we, we don’t um, it’s nothing against like, there might be some journalists who are like, you know, really good. But like, yeah, we like, have our own ways of like, conveying our message. ” Lastly, he is told: “I feel that maybe you should also respect where we’re coming from in the sense that like we are saying that this is a   space. This here is a   space. ” Mr. Voeten asks, “A journalist free space? Like North Korea?” Maaike Engels, who was attacked along with her colleague Mr. Voeten has said: “Since September, when we began our project, we have both noticed a huge deterioration in the camp, with increased disease,   overcrowding and violence. “Two weeks before we were attacked, a Narcotics Anonymous volunteer from London told me crystal meth and heroin use in The Jungle were on the rise. Perhaps that explains the aggression and sheer audacity of our attackers. ” As reported by Breitbart London, the growing number of British anarchists living among the refugees, in particular Calais Migrant Solidarity, part of the British No Borders Network, has led to the deputy mayor of Calais, Philippe Mignonet stating: ‘[UK activists] are obsessed with increasing tensions and setting the migrants up against the authorities. ’”  