After a   deep investigation into suspected foreign meddling in the U. S. election, the Federal Bureau of Investigation has determined that Donald Trump has no ties to the Russian government. [Federal officials conducted a wide investigation throughout the summer looking for financial connections between Trump and his operatives and the Russian government in connection with the hacking of Democrat party computers but found nothing, according to The New York Times.  Upon the conclusion of the investigation, the FBI decided that, contrary to claims by Democrats, the hacking may have been aimed at disrupting the election but was not intended to ensure the election of Donald Trump. The allegations of Trump’s computer ties to the Russian bank were made in an article posted to the liberal Slate. com website. But news that the FBI is now discounting any such ties coming on the heels of FBI Director Comey’s decision to open another investigation into Hillary Clinton’s email scandal represents a double blow to the Democrats. As part of the revelations, it was reported that earlier this year the FBI began investigating a possible connection between Trump and Alfa Bank, the largest private commercial bank in Russia. The Bureau was alerted to a series of electronic connections between a server owned by the Trump organization and two servers registered to Alfa Bank. The links were at first thought “questionable,” but after its long investigation the FBI determined, “there could be an innocuous explanation, like a marketing email or spam, for the computer contacts,” the Times reported. The Trump campaign reiterated that the investigation had proven what they already knew. Trump campaign press secretary Hope Hicks noted, “First of all, it’s not a secret server. The email server, set up for marketing purposes and operated by a   has not been used since 2010. ” Hicks added that the traffic on that server is not used for the sort of email communications that could be employed for any sort of collusion. Alfa Bank also released a statement denying any ties to Trump. “Neither Alfa Bank nor its principals, including Mikhail Fridman and Petr Aven, have or have had any contact with Mr. Trump or his organizations,” the statement read. “Fridman and Aven have never met Mr. Trump nor have they or Alfa Bank had any business dealings with him. Neither Alfa nor its officers have sent Mr. Trump or his organizations any emails, information or money. Alfa Bank does not have and has never had any special or exclusive internet connection with Mr. Trump or his entities. ” Now it appears that the FBI has confirmed these statements. Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston or email the author at igcolonel@hotmail. com.