The man accused of critically wounding two Boston police officers and injuring several others served as a constable in that city for nearly six months. [Boston Police towed a Ford Crown Victoria from the home of accused shooter Kirk Figueroa, 33, on Thursday morning. A photo of Figueroa wearing a   red beret was found on the ElitePolicing. org website, according to the Boston Globe. The Crown Victoria bore the Elite Policing’s web address.  Boston Police Identify City Constable Kirk Figueroa As Gunman In Shootout With Officers https:  .  #boston pic. twitter.   —   Boston News Now (@bostonnewsnow) October 13, 2016,  A search reveals a link to a “Founder Biography” that shows Figueroa’s claim of being an Army Reservist assigned to the 306th Military Police Battalion. He claimed to have served from 2008 until 2010. City Council minutes note that Figueroa was confirmed as a constable by the council on April 13 after he completed a background investigation conducted by the Boston Police Department, the Globe reported. In Boston, constables are licensed to serve legal papers regarding lawsuits. A 2006 Boston. com article states that constables in Boston carry badges and have arrest authority. The article also notes that half of the   constables had been arrested in the past. The city now has about 150 constables. A motive for the shooting, if known, has yet to be released by investigating officials. Figueroa also claims to have been a licensed private investigator by the State of Florida. He also claims to have earned a diploma in private investigations from the University of North Texas. He further claims to have been a correctional officer with the West Virginia Department of Military Affairs and Public Safety. He reported to be a “Certified Homeland Protection Professional” with the National Domestic Preparedness Coalition. Finally, Figueroa claims to be a California bounty hunter and mixed martial arts practitioner. After Figueroa shot the two Boston police officers, other officers rushed into the line of fire to pull them out of the house where they could begin first aid. These actions likely saved the lives of the two downed officers. One officer reportedly stuck his finger in a gunshot wound to stop or slow the bleeding. One of the officers was shot in the upper body while the other was shot in the leg, the Boston Globe reported. Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas. He is a founding member of the Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX.