Although there’s been talk about GOP frontrunner Donald Trump acting more presidential, the billionaire was true to form during his Saturday morning campaign rally in Waterbury, Connecticut where he took swings at both of his rivals Sen. Ted Cruz ( ) and Ohio Gov. John Kasich.  “Rafael! Straight out of the hills of Canada,” Trump said about Cruz, saying he spent “four years in Canada [and] was a Canadian citizen until 15 months ago. ” “If he wins, he’s not going to win  …     despite the fact that they’re buying off delegates  …     If he ever did, the first thing that the Democrats are going to do is sue him on the basis that he’s not a naturalized citizen, that he wasn’t born in this country,” Trump said, adding, “I happen to think they’re going to win. ” A few months ago, Trump repeatedly raised questions about whether or not Cruz is eligible to run for president since he was born in Canada to a mother who was a U. S. citizen. Here’s the full bit of Trump returning to birtherism and referring to Ted Cruz as ”Rafael” in Waterbury. pic. twitter.   —   Sopan Deb (@SopanDeb) April 23, 2016,  Cruz wasn’t Trump’s only target during his campaign rally. The real estate mogul also went after Kasich, joking about the spelling and pronunciation of his name. “Can we ask him to change the spelling of his name?” Trump joked. In Waterbury, Trump said he wants to ask Kasich to change the spelling of his name. pic. twitter.   —   Sopan Deb (@SopanDeb) April 23, 2016,  Trump also mocked being presidential, acting stiff and boring at the podium, saying: “Ladies and gentleman, it is a great honor to be with you this morning. ” “It’s very easy to be presidential,” Trump declared, saying he has been the frontrunner in the race by continuing to act the way he has up until this point. The campaign rally began shortly after 10 a. m. on Saturday, but people started lining up to see the billionaire at 4:30 a. m. and eventually an estimated 3, 000 people were packed into Crosby High School to listen to him speak. Crowd estimated at 3, 000 waiting for @realDonaldTrump in Crosby High School in Waterbury, more outside pic. twitter.   —   Susan Haigh (@SusanHaighAP) April 23, 2016,  Trump reportedly misspoke during his Friday night campaign rally in Delaware, listing Connecticut as a state he’s already won. “I have to tell you that there’s something going on that’s incredible,” Trump began. “No matter where we go  —   we go to Alabama, we had 35, 000 people. ” “And we won Alabama. And we won Arkansas, and we won Kentucky, and we won Florida, and we won South Carolina! And we won New Hampshire, and we won Connecticut. And we won so much!” he touted, but Connecticut’s primary is next Tuesday. However, Trump might be foreshadowing the future because a Quinnipiac University poll has him ahead of his competition by 20 points in Connecticut.