A combat veteran of Afghanistan, who gave both legs trying to dismantle an explosive device, tells Breitbart News Hillary Clinton failed the most important test for being president when she recklessly handled state secrets in wartime. [“This is a woman, not only vying to be president, but vying to be  ” said Brian Mast, the   Army staff sergeant now running for Congress in Florida’s 18th District. “And she can’t handle sensitive information —  putting it at risk and American lives at risk in this way?”  Mast, a Republican and supporter of Donald Trump for president, says there is a trust between the men and women serving down range and their leaders, and Clinton broke that trust. “She wants to be the top person tasked with digesting intelligence and what is going on on the battlefield,” he said. “Every person should be absolutely in outrage over this. ” The candidate for Congress, who recently completed his bachelors from Harvard University, said he is baffled by the explanation given by FBI Director James Comey, when he announced Tuesday that he would not recommend that Department of Justice prosecutors indict the former first lady. Comey said no charges are appropriate following an extensive investigation of Clinton’s use of a personal   system during her time as Secretary of State. The FBI investigation began as a referral last July from the Intelligence Community Inspector General and focused on whether classified information was improperly stored or transmitted on Secretary Clinton’s personal   servers during her   tenure. “Although there is evidence of potential violations of the statutes regarding the handling of classified information, our judgment is that no reasonable prosecutor would bring such a case,” Comey said. Mast said he was baffled at such a   decision. “She has been given a pass because of what her last name is and for her role in the Democratic Party,” he said. “To say there is only indirect evidence of direct evidence? It was a complete dodge of what is going on here,” he said. “This is Hillary Clinton being treated in a way that no other person facing these charges would be treated. ”