 Good morning. (Want to get California Today by email? Here’s the  .) California’s biggest lake, about 350 square miles, is dying. It’s not the first time. The Salton Sea, straddling the Imperial and Coachella Valleys, is the latest incarnation of a body of water that has been drying and refilling over eons with water from the Colorado River. Native Americans once fished and camped on Lake Cahuilla, a prehistoric and larger version. The Salton Sea was born in the early 1900s after a canal burst sent water from the Colorado flooding into the valley over a period of two years. Beginning in the 1950s, entrepreneurs transformed it into a tourist mecca, building marinas and resorts. There were beauty pageants and boat races. Dean Martin and Frank Sinatra visited. But in time, runoff pollution, drought and blistering heat conspired to end the fun. As the saline lake evaporated, its salt concentration soared, killing fish en masse. The blooming and decomposition of algae had a powerful stench. Today, the Salton Sea is surrounded by abandoned buildings. For people fighting to revitalize it, there are two big concerns, said Michael Cohen, a researcher with the Pacific Institute, a   think tank. One is dust. The receding water is exposing vast areas of the lake floor that, if unabated, could kick up more than 100 tons of dust every day by 2045, scientists say. (This winter’s bountiful rain largely avoided the Salton Sea). The particles are so fine that they cannot be coughed up, threatening the health of local children whose asthma rates lead the state. The other is the threat to wildlife. The Salton Sea is a precious way station for more than 400 species of migrating birds. Part of the solution, said Mr. Cohen, lies in restoring habitat  —   essentially moving earth around in ways that keeps the dust from flying while providing the birds with places to stop and refuel. A $9. 6 billion revitalization plan endorsed by state officials has been on the back burner for years. Mr. Cohen said he was often asked why we don’t just let nature take its course. “Are we fighting nature? Yes,” he said. But, he said, pristine wilderness really no longer exists  —   all of California is manipulated in some way by humans. “So from that perspective,” he said, “we need to make sure those places that are valuable for wildlife are preserved. ” Frank Foster, a photography instructor at Victor Valley College in Victorville, has been capturing images of the Salton Sea for years. He shared some with us. (Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.) • New actions by San Francisco and Hawaii showed how emboldened President Trump’s opponents are to attack his policies through litigation. [The New York Times] • The “A Day Without a Woman” demonstration was a test of whether   fervor can be turned into a sustained movement. [The New York Times] • What’s next after the defeat of Measure S? Advocates say Los Angeles must tackle high housing costs and the need for better planning. [Los Angeles Times] • Voter turnout on Tuesday in Los Angeles was likely to be lowest ever. [Los Angeles Times] • The Los Angeles County sheriff said he expected federal drug agents would try to step up marijuana enforcement in California. [The Associated Press] • California fishermen are bracing for the worst salmon season in eight years. [The Press Democrat] • The state’s rate of sexually transmitted diseases is at a   high. In Fresno, drug use is driving a syphilis epidemic. [Fresno Bee] • How a Facebook executive revived a fading surf brand in Santa Ana. [The New York Times] • Snap is betting on a   trend: the eventual global dominance of visual culture, Farhad Manjoo writes. [The New York Times] • Uber is backing away from a program that thwarted local regulators in the wake of a New York Times article. [The New York Times] • With “Beauty and the Beast,” Disney is taking a $300 million risk on a   remake. [The New York Times] • Two new movie theaters in San Diego and Los Angeles will have seats for the   and jungle gyms for their children. [Quartz] On Monday, we wrote about a state proposal that would let bicyclists treat stop signs like yield signs. We asked if you liked the idea. Hundreds of emails poured in, with opinions sharply divided. Here is a sample: “Terrible idea. While there are many conscientious bicyclists, I regularly see bicyclists who are simply reckless. Many times I have seen bicyclists go right through red lights, at great risk to themselves and others. This measure would embolden them to engage in such dangerous behaviors, and raise the risk of crashes and serious injuries. ”  —   Paul D. Lerner, Beverly Hills “Yes, this would be a welcome change. Safety hardly ever requires a full stop by bikes at a stop sign. Because of that, most bicyclists currently don’t surrender their   momentum by making full stops at stop signs where the traffic does not warrant them. The result is that the existing law requiring full stops at stop signs is rarely observed or enforced, which encourages disrespect of the law and stokes the resentment of motorists already annoyed by the presence of bikes on their streets and roads. ”  —   Len Colamarino, Atascadero “I’m a   year San Francisco bike commuter. I am dubious about the rolling stop rule. I often see cyclists roll through stops when pedestrians are in crosswalks. A law change, I fear, will make this worse. ”  —   Alyson Jacks, San Francisco “Cyclists are well aware of the risks they assume when ‘sharing the road’ with vehicles. It’s hard to imagine how forcing cyclists to stop at empty intersections makes either group any safer. ”  —   Ryan Martin, Roseville California Today goes live at 6 a. m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes. com. The California Today columnist, Mike McPhate, is a   Californian  —   born outside Sacramento and raised in San Juan Capistrano. He lives in Davis. Follow him on Twitter. California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U. C. Berkeley.