Stephen Miller, a senior policy advisor for Donald Trump, told Breitbart News Daily host Stephen K. Bannon he was shocked at President Obama’s response to Trump’s proposal to end remittances from illegal aliens back to Mexico as a means of curtailing illegal immigration, as it appeared the president was more concerned with Mexico’s economy than jobs for Americans.  “We’re financing corruption and cartels in Mexico,” Miller said about remittances. “Far from being compassionate, having illegal immigration and an open border finances failed political systems and violent cartels in Mexico that are spreading economic misery there. Until we remove the release valve of illegal immigration from Mexico, they’re not going to be able to get their house in order. ” Obama’s response to the proposal is summarized here: The implications with respect to ending remittances, from legal immigrants and from individuals sending money back home to their families, are enormous. First of all, they’re impractical. We just talked about the difficulties of trying to enforce huge outflows of capital. The notion we’re going to track every Western Union of money sent to Mexico —  good luck with that. ” “Then we’ve got the issue of the implications for the Mexican economy,” he continued. “Which in turn, if it’s collapsing, sends more immigrants north because they can’t find jobs back in Mexico. “Can you imagine the president of any other country saying, well first of all, we can’t touch illegal immigration into our country because other countries need the money?” Miller said. Miller also chastised the media: “The press corp would shred like if the Italian Prime Minister said that, or if the British Prime Minister said that  …     On the substance, it is important to remind everybody that we’ve tried the open borders experiment for decades now. It goes without saying that it’s been catastrophic for Americans in terms of crime, cartels, drugs, jobs, wages, strains on public resources  —   it’s been an unmitigated disaster of almost unimaginable proportions. ” Miller also insisted the Trump campaign is on track to gain the delegates needed to secure the Republican nomination prior to the Cleveland convention. Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00AM to 9:00AM EST. Listen to the full interview with Stephen Miller below: 