Belgian riot police have fired water cannon on an   State (IS) protest near a shrine commemorating the victims of the Brussels terror attacks. Around 10 men from a   “hooligan” march were arrested. [Despite a   “march against fear” being canceled in the city today because of ongoing security fears, hundreds had gathered at the Place de la Bourse in Brussels to commemorate the March 22nd suicide bombings, the 31 people killed, and 270 wounded.  However, at 2. 30pm around 400 men  —   some masked and wearing black  —   arrived at the makeshift shrine. “We don’t believe in candles and flowers. That is for the dead,” said one demonstrator, who gave his name as Mario and claimed to be in a “hooligan gang” from Ghent. “We want answers from the government. There are too many fanatics in this country,” he told the Telegraph. The men held a banned that read: “Fuck ISIS. Casuals Against Terrorism” and chanted, “Hooligans united for the same cause”. Chants of, “This is our home” and, “The state, Daesh accomplice” were also heard.   illegal demo in Brussels. They took over memorial site for attack victims on Place Bourse #BrusselsAttacks pic. twitter.   —   Rory Mulholland (@mulhollandrory) March 27, 2016,  Riot police right now pushing far right protestors out of Place de la Bourse #BrusselsAttacks #bruxelles pic. twitter.   —   Rory Mulholland (@mulhollandrory) March 27, 2016,  Others in the square, including some Muslims and migrants, proceeded to provoke the “hooligans” by chanting back: “Fascists! Fascists! We’re not having it!” There were small clashes between the two groups, which primarily consisted of pushing, shoving and throwing insults. Riot police with helmets and shields quickly corralled the hooligans before dispersing them with high power water jets, and marshalling them onto trains out of the city, AFP journalists witnessed. Ten arrests were made. As the “hooligans” were driven out of the Place de la Bourse by the police, cheers and clapping was heard. Brussels mayor Yvan Mayeur said police had done “nothing” to stop the hooligans coming to Brussels despite having advance warning, adding that he was “appalled” that “such thugs have come to provoke residents at the site of their memorial. ” Belgian Prime Minister Charles Michel said he “emphatically” condemned the demonstration. (AFP contributed to this report)