Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, Ohio has offered students a safe space for those triggered by the Republican National Convention this week. [“Last week’s tragedies have horrified us all and raised profound questions for our country. Amid our shock and grief, we also recognize that our city soon will host the Republican National Convention (RNC) an event that is expected to draw dozens of protests —  and could see a significant degree of conflict” said the college in a newsletter.  Working in collaboration with the university’s LGBT Center, the Social Justice Institute will host a “safe space” adjacent to its offices (A15C) in the basement of Crawford Hall during the week. The Interreligious Council also will house a safe space for those who want to talk or reflect about their concerns at the Interfaith Plaza, located just east of the Church of the Covenant, 11205 Euclid Ave. Please contact these offices for schedules and other information. The college also announced that it would reduce its “  campus operations significantly” throughout the convention, and advised students to study in other places as much as possible. “Students will be asked to consider staying off campus during the week or to live in areas distant from the buildings where police officers and other guests here for the RNC are staying,” added the college. “As a graduate of Case, I am truly embarrassed by the reaction of the school’s administration in this matter, which has ruined the reputation of the university and made a laughingstock of CWRU,” commented one graduate from the school. “I am ashamed to have to tell people I went to school there as an undergrad. It will take a lot of effort and time to repair the damage the administration has done. ” Breitbart Tech reached out to Case Western Reserve University for comment, and a representative provided the following statement: The university expanded the availability of counseling services for students, staff and faculty this week in light of the significant safety concerns law enforcement agencies and, ultimately, federal officials, had expressed for several weeks leading up to the convention. In light of the tragic events in Dallas July 7, Case Western Reserve took several steps —  including moving classes off campus and reducing operations —  to increase security July  .  For those still needing to be on campus, university officials believed providing such services represented a responsible effort to provide support. The safe spaces, meanwhile, were provided by faculty and staff leaders at the university to give those who wanted an opportunity to talk about concerns or experiences the opportunity to do so. For additional details about those initiatives, it is better to speak directly to those who offered them. Charlie Nash is a reporter for Breitbart Tech. You can follow him on Twitter @MrNashington or like his page at Facebook.