Controversial rapper Kanye West premiered a shocking new music video for his song “Famous” on Friday night in Los Angeles, which featured a nude Donald Trump, Bruce Jenner, Bill Cosby, and Taylor Swift, among others. [“Famous” is featured on West’s latest studio album, The Life of Pablo. The music video shows 12 naked celebrity    lying in bed together as the vocals from singer Rihanna, also featured in the video, and Swizz Beatz and West rang out.  Along with those celebs, the likes of Chris Brown, Anna Wintour, Kim Kardashian, Amber Rose, and Ray J. make an appearance in the Grammy   rapper’s new     video.  “It’s not in support or anti any of (the stars in the video). It’s a comment on fame,” Kanye West told Vanity Fair. Although it is unclear which, if any, of the celebrities pictured in the “Famous” music video were actually in the bed, West said the famous friends he showed the video all said they wanted to be a part of the process. “Guess what the response is when I show it to them?” West said. “They want to be in the bed. ” The music video premiere is exclusively on Tidal,   and Beyonce’s   music streaming service. Social media reaction to the “Famous” visuals came quickly. Most of the response reflected shock and awe from fans and viewers alike. Some insinuated a Taylor   lawsuit as a likely outcome: Taylor swift calling her lawyer after watching Kanye’s famous video pic. twitter.   —   baberaham lincoln (@sinamonnroII) June 25, 2016,  Rare pic of taylor swift emailing her lawyer to give kanye a ceast and desist after the famous video #TIDALXFAMOUS pic. twitter.   —   Petty Davis (@YaaSays) June 25, 2016,  Others chalk West’s latest addition up to a declined mental state: Kanye Omari West has officially lost his natural mind. This video  …    I can’t. #TIDALXFAMOUS,  —   Maya (@MayaMireille) June 25, 2016,  Still, others were floored: #TIDALxFAMOUS Video pic. twitter.   —   Six (@Sixfever) June 25, 2016,  Well, that was different. #tidalxfamous pic. twitter.   —   Rocket Man! (@hamza_a_g) June 25, 2016,  One social media user even wondered what presumptive presidential candidate Donald Trump thought about his likeness being featured in West’s new music video. I need to hear what Trump has to say about  #TIDALxFamous video,  —   Makeup Artist (@Tish__Daddy) June 25, 2016,  West released The Life of Pablo last February. Watch the full visual for “Famous” on Tidal. Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson.