Clinton Cash, the explosive documentary film exposing the Clinton Foundation’s global nexus of influence peddling, has been viewed more than three million times since its global online premiere last month. [Views of the film on Breitbart News’ YouTube channel and the Philly Blunt pirated YouTube version have exceeded a combined viewer count of more than three million views. That extraordinary figure does not include those who have attended watch parties, watched the recently released director’s cut, tuned in to One America News Network during its debut last month, or viewed it via a myriad of other pirated formats.  The documentary film, directed by M. A. Taylor and written and produced by Danny Fleuette and Breitbart News Executive Chairman Stephen K. Bannon, is based on research that first appeared in The New York Times bestselling book, authored by Breitbart News Senior    Peter Schweizer. Buzz around the Clinton Cash film was certainly spurred by the July 26 release of the paperback version of Clinton Cash, as well as the August 8 debut of the   Clinton Cash graphic novel. Indeed, initial reaction to Clinton Cash was overwhelming, with more than 170, 000 viewers watching the film within the first three hours of its worldwide release. Much of the support for the groundbreaking film was the result of Bernie Sanders supporters, who flocked to their respective Facebook accounts and urged their followers and fans to watch and share the groundbreaking movie. It is also worth noting that for three consecutive days, Clinton Cash sat atop U. S. Facebook’s trending topics list  —   all during the Democratic party’s   coronation of Hillary Clinton as its presidential nominee. Due to the overwhelming amount of popularity, responses, and audience requests, Breitbart News decided to make Clinton Cash available for free forever. Viewers continue to flock to watch Clinton Cash, as new revelations found in the release of nearly 300 pages of emails belonging to   of State Clinton disclose the nefarious relationship between the State Department and the Clinton Foundation. Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson.