The Republican Establishment has lost the popular vote in 5 of the last 6 presidential elections, and a large part of the reason was on display over the weekend when a number of Establishment Republican candidates blasted frontrunner Donald Trump for raising awareness about one of the DC Media’s biggest  : the legions of women who claim that both Bill and Hillary Clinton have abused them.  What you are about to read below, is The Call of a Loser eager to reassure the DC Media and Hillary Clinton that they can be defeated in 2016 by Hillary’s wildly hypocritical War on Women attacks. What you are about to read below, is The Call of a Coward unwilling to break from the DC Media’s phony Narrative that this is all a private matter between two people, and not about allegations of rape, groping, harassment, and campaigns of personal destruction. Jeb Bush, “Focus on the present and the future,” Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush said. “Doing what he did, was it appropriate? Heck no, it wasn’t. You know, of course it wasn’t. But that’s long gone. Bill Clinton’s not running for president. Hillary Clinton is. ” John Kasich, “Look, I just don’t like that stuff. It’s been around American politics throughout our history, people calling people names,” Kasich continued. “But to me, Hillary would be defeated because I really believe, Mika, she has no vision. I don’t want to spend my time bashing Bill Clinton. Chris Christie, New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie echoed the sentiment, adding that he thought “the American people have made their judgments on Bill Clinton” and that “there’s a difference between discussing Secretary Clinton’s conduct and President Clinton’s conduct. ” Republicans cannot win with that approach, he said. Marco Rubio doesn’t criticize Trump, but he is already waving a white flag: “Those are issues that in my mind are going to be discussed by others in this campaign. They want to raise them, they can raise them,” the Florida senator told The Daily Caller in a phone interview Saturday. “That’s not what my campaign is focused on. ” “I’m not offended by it,” Rubio continued, referring to other campaigns raising the issue of Clinton’s sexual past. “It’s true, it’s on the record and I think it exposes a tremendous amount of hypocrisy in the mainstream media. I believe had that been a figure on the Right, the mainstream media would be giving extensive coverage to it. ” Here you have three Republican governors running for president who are as representative as anyone could possibly be of the GOP Establishment, and rather than criticize Hillary’s hypocrisy, rather than stand up for the women who claim to have been victimized by the Clintons, these losers just roll over by pretending they don’t understand what the issue is really about. And this is after Trump’s defensive attacks on Hillary not only shut her hypocritical “sexist” talk down, but successfully forced Hillary’s DC Media palace guards to talk about an issue they were prepared to claim was out of bounds. Think about this  …     John McCain wouldn’t go after Senator WrightAyersRezkoPfleger in 2008. But McCain will question Ted Cruz’s citizenship. Mitt Romney seemed genetically incapable of going after Obama over Benghazi in 2012. But Romney will join arms with the DC Media to attack our frontrunner. Pathetic. For the good of our country, the Establishment Temple must come down. Related: “Smoking Gun: The GOP Establishment Cannot Beat Hillary Clinton. Period. ”   Follow John Nolte on Twitter @NolteNC                