The Marvel and DC Comics creative powerhouses behind Batman, The Avengers, Hulk, and Suicide Squad have joined forces with New York Times bestseller author and Breitbart Senior    Peter Schweizer to create an iconic graphic novel inspired by Clinton Cash that hits bookstores nationwide on Tuesday. [“Stunningly illustrated, hilariously retold, and inspired by the blockbuster book that reshaped the contours of the presidential election, Clinton Cash: A Graphic Novel brings to life Hillary and Bill’s brazen plot to fleece the planet for maximum profit,” states a release from publisher Regnery.  Inspired by Schweizer’s New York Times bestseller Clinton Cash, Clinton Cash: A Graphic Novel —  adapted by Chuck Dixon and Brett R. Smith —  retells in   detail how Bill and Hillary Clinton auctioned U. S. policies to foreign companies and Clinton Foundation donors in exchange for hundreds of millions of dollars in donations and public speaking fees. Comic book legend Chuck Dixon said he was attracted to the Clinton Cash project because of the book’s important investigative revelations. “[Clinton Cash] was a story that needed to be told, and I thought I could bring my talents to bear to reach a larger audience in new media,” Dixon told SiriusXM host Stephen K. Bannon on Friday. Indeed, Dixon, who is the   of the notorious Batman nemesis “Bane,” is no stranger to telling stories about corrupt villains. Throughout his prolific career, Dixon has written for Evangeline (Comico Comics) The Savage Sword of Conan, The Punisher War Journal (Marvel Comics) Robin, Nightwing, Detective Comics (DC Comics) and Simpsons Comics (Bongo Comics). During a special sneak preview of Clinton Cash: A Graphic Novel, Breitbart Tech    Milo Yiannopoulos appeared with Schweizer at a special event in Cleveland, Ohio, during the Republican National Convention. “The artwork’s amazing, it’s really good,” said Yiannopoulos. The book blends satire and humor with several of Clinton Cash’s core revelations to tackle the Clintons’ political corruptions in a visually dynamic and entertaining format suited for comic book fans and millennial graphic novel enthusiasts alike. According to the publisher, the book covers: The book’s   imagery is the result of the graphic novel’s creative director and colorist, Brett R. Smith. “Andrew Breitbart famously said, ‘Politics is downstream from culture,’ wrote Lisa De Pasquale in Townhall. “No one better represents the right way to engage in culture and entertainment than Brett R. Smith. ” Smith’s impressive creative pedigree includes work for a wide array of clients, including Marvel and DC Entertainment, BBDO, McCann Erikson, Saatchi  Saatchi, as well as contributing to numerous premier properties and licenses like The Avenger, Batman, Superman, GI Joe, Wolverine, Guardians of the Galaxy, Hulk, and Suicide Squad. “In addition to the graphic novel medium, the humor is one of the most important aspects of the book,” writes Lisa De Pasquale. “You can safely give this book to your apolitical friends and family members. Do it before November. ” Clinton Cash: A Graphic Novel hits bookstores nationwide today.