Sunday on CNN’s “State of the Union,” Sen. John McCain ( ) said President Barack Obama’s lack of leadership over the last eight years in foreign policy has brought about the “unraveling of the world order that was established after World War II. ”  On Obama’s response to Russian hacking McCain said, “Well, the president’s response was sort of an acknowledgement and endorsement of what they’ve already done. The president has no strategy and no policy as to what to do about these various cyber attacks that have possibly disrupted an American election. We need a select committee. We need to get to the bottom of this. We need to find out exactly what was done and what the implications of the attacks were especially if they had an effect on our election. There’s no doubt they were interfering and nobody doubt there was a cyber attack. The question is how much and what damage and what should the United States of America do? And so far we’ve been totally paralyzed. I’m sure that when, when Vladimir Putin was told ‘cut it out,’ unquote, I’m sure that Vladimir Putin immediately stopped all cyber activity. The fact is they are hacking every single day in other areas of our military and all kinds of different aspects of American life that they are able to penetrate. And we have no strategy, nor do we have any policy towards that and it’s very disturbing. McCain added, “What’s happening here when we see the seizure of these ships, when we see the cyber attacks, when we see the dismemberment of Syria, when we see the tragedies that are taking place there which are heartbreaking, actually heartbreaking while we sat by and watched all this happen, this is a sign of a possible unraveling of the world order that was established after World War II, which was one of the most peaceful periods in the history of the world. We’re starting to see that, the strains and unraveling of it and that’s because of an absolute failure of American leadership. When America doesn’t lead a lot of other bad people do and that’s why we’re seeing this slaughter in Aleppo that breaks your heart. ” Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNEN