By narrating the raw aftermath of a police shooting in a widely shared Facebook Live video last year, Diamond Reynolds turned the death of her boyfriend, Philando Castile, into a nationwide call for racial justice. Now Ms. Reynolds, who was widely praised for her poise during the video, is facing legal troubles. Ms. Reynolds, of West St. Paul, Minn. was charged with felony assault last week, stemming from accusations that she attacked a woman with a hammer. The police said Ms. Reynolds, 27, was among a group of women who “jumped” a woman at 10:30 a. m. in St. Paul. She was freed on bail after a court appearance on Monday. Her lawyer, Michael Padden, said she intended to plead not guilty at her next court appearance on April 3. The woman, who is 24 but whose name was not included in the criminal complaint, told the police that while waiting at a stop sign, she saw a white S. U. V. make a   to follow her. She said she drove to a parking lot and got out of her car, at which point Ms. Reynolds ran up and punched her in the head while another woman, Chnika Blair, 18, grabbed her by the hair, the police said. At one point, Ms. Reynolds struck the woman in the head with a hammer, knocking her to the ground, the police said. Ms. Reynolds then struck the car’s windshield with the hammer, smashing the window, the police said. A third woman, Dyamond Richardson, 25, got out of the car, chased the woman down and sprayed her with mace, the police said. Ms. Blair and Ms. Richardson were also arrested. The woman identified Ms. Reynolds, Ms. Blair and Ms. Richardson out of three separate photo lineups, the police said. The woman showed officers a Facebook post by Ms. Reynolds in which she threatened to “come after” her, the police said. Ms. Richardson told investigators there was an ongoing conflict between her and a friend of the unnamed woman, according to the complaint. The death of Mr. Castile, a    school cafeteria worker, was one of several shootings last year that focused the nation’s attention on police treatment of  . He was shot by an officer while inside a car at 9 p. m. in Falcon Heights, a small city northwest of St. Paul. The Hennepin County Medical Examiner’s office said he died about 20 minutes after he was shot. The encounter was made even more chilling by Ms. Reynolds’s anguished but calm commentary during her   Facebook video, which began soon after Mr. Castile was shot. As her    daughter watched in the back seat, she walked viewers through her account of what happened, saying she informed officers that he had a gun and that he was reaching for his driver’s license and registration when the officer opened fire. Her account was laced with emotion  —   “Stay with me,” she pleaded to Mr. Castile  —   but she also had the wherewithal to repeatedly call the officer “sir. ” The video was viewed millions of times, serving as a window into the personal effects of violence not often seen. The officer who shot Mr. Castile, Jeronimo Yanez, was charged with   manslaughter in November. He pleaded not guilty in February and his trial is scheduled to begin on May 30. Activists began calling for black men and women to stream their encounters with the police live so others could watch for mistreatment. Since the shooting, Ms. Reynolds has been rattled by insomnia and panic attacks, she told The Washington Post in November.