NEW YORK  —   In a rare exclusive interview, Gennifer Flowers, who says she had a   affair with Bill Clinton, slammed Hillary Clinton as an “enabler” who has “allowed” her husband to “go on and do what he did in a variety of forms to women. ”[Flowers took issue with Clinton making women’s issues into a central part of her presidential campaign.  “That’s the biggest joke I’ve heard in a long time,” she said. “She in no way stands for women or supports women. Now she will verbally say she does but actions speak louder than words. ” Flowers made the remark during an   interview recorded for this reporter’s talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio,” broadcast on New York’s AM 970 The Answer and NewsTalk 990 AM. Some sections of the interview played last week while others will air this coming Sunday. Listen to the interview here: Flowers said of Hillary Clinton’s relationship with her husband: She has been the enabler. And I know that the word enabler has been used in reference to enabling drug addicts and alcoholics and that sort of thing. But I actually used that term some time back that she was the enabler that really allowed him to go on and do what he did in a variety of forms to women. She never held him responsible. It was always the fault of the women. Even in the case of Monica Lewinsky. Flowers never sought to go public. She was forced into the spotlight against her will when former Clinton insider Larry Nichols, who claimed he was improperly dismissed by Clinton from a state job, mentioned Flowers in court documents. In a lawsuit, Nichols alleged that Clinton diverted state funds to engage in extramarital affairs with five women. He named Flowers and four others, including former Miss America Elizabeth Ward Gracen and former Miss Arkansas Lencola Sullivan. Nichols would later drop his lawsuit, but the charges helped form the basis of tabloid stories alleging that Clinton had extramarital affairs, including with Flowers. Three days after Star magazine mentioned Flowers as Clinton’s alleged mistress, Bill and Hillary Clinton appeared side by side on 60 Minutes in January 1992, where Bill denied a relationship with Flowers. To protect her reputation, Flowers held a press conference the next day where she played excerpts from tape recordings she had made of private phone calls with Clinton. In a deposition in 1998, Bill Clinton admitted he had a sexual encounter with Flowers. Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio. ” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.