Agents from Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s (ICE) Enforcement and Removal Operations (ERO) deported a Salvadoran   gang member who is wanted in his home country for violent crimes. [Aristides Inoc   21, an   gang member, was arrested on January 26, 2015, by officials with U. S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) after he illegally entered the U. S. He was transferred to a detention facility in Pearsall, Texas in February 2015 to await deportation.   was the subject of an Interpol “Red Notice” for violent crimes in his home country of El Salvador. Those alleged crimes include extortion and illegally moving firearms. The weapons charge came about after he allegedly participated in a meeting where an execution of a resident of his hometown was scheduled.   is from Chinameca y Lolotique del Departamento de San Miguel, a statement from ICE obtained by Breitbart Texas revealed.  “U. S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement continues to focus its resources on removing violent criminals and other   aliens who pose the greatest threat to our communities,” said Enrique M. Lucero, field office director of ERO San Antonio in a written statement. “This latest removal ensures that this individual will face justice for the criminal allegations against him. ”   was taken to Laredo on Tuesday where he boarded an ICE Air charter flight. He was greeted in San Salvador by Salvadoran law enforcement authorities. ICE officials report over 630 criminal aliens have been returned to El Salvador over the past four years as part of the SAFE Initiative (Security Alliance for Fugitive Enforcement) program. The program is designed to identify foreign fugitives who are wanted in other countries. The 630 Salvadorans were all wanted by the El Salvador National Police Force. In total, 1, 150 foreign fugitives have been returned to the countries where they are wanted for crimes including kidnapping, rape, and murder. During FY 2015, ERO agents removed 235, 413 individuals. Of that, the statement reports that 165, 935 were apprehended while attempting to illegally enter the U. S. or shortly after their illegal entry. The other 69, 478 were captured in other parts of the country. Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas and is a member of the original Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX.