The highly anticipated Clinton Cash documentary will air for free on Breitbart on Saturday, July 23 at 8:00 p. m. ET and on Sunday, July 24 at 2:00 and 8:00 p. m. ET. [***Due to the overwhelming demand to view this film, we’ve decided to broadcast it online for free with no password required. ***  CLICK HERE TO WATCH THE MOVIE ONLINE AT 2:00PM  8:00PM ET ON SUNDAY, JULY 24.  The next global broadcast of “Clinton Cash” will be SUNDAY, JULY 24 at 2:00PM ET and 8:00pm ET at this link. The weekend Clinton Cash global release, just days before the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia, PA, will set the tone for Hillary Clinton’s nomination. MSNBC calls the movie “devastating” for presumptive Democratic nominee and says it “powerfully connects the dots. ” The Guardian lauds the film as “a powerful message, one that is clearly designed to stir up trouble at the convention at just the moment when Clinton should be reveling in her victory in the Democratic race. ” And the Fiscal Times warns that Clinton Cash is a “weapon that could knock Clinton out. ” The film, based on the New York Times bestselling investigative book Clinton Cash by Breitbart Senior    Peter Schweizer, has sent shockwaves through media. The New York Times, Washington Post, ABC News, and other Establishment Media have verified and confirmed the book’s explosive revelations about how Hillary Clinton auctioned State Department policies to foreign Clinton Foundation donors and benefactors who then paid Bill Clinton tens of millions of dollars in speaking fees. Time says the movie’s power comes from its focus persuading liberals. “[The film is] a scathing broadside aimed at persuading liberals,” reports Time. It is “likely to leave    Clinton supporters who see it feeling more unsure about casting a vote for her. ” CNN’s Michael Smerconish says the    is shaping up to be the political “playbook for the fall campaign. ” Clinton Cash’s weekend global airing on Breitbart will be for two days only. Click here to watch the film. No password required. “We wanted Breitbart Nation to see the Clinton Cash movie first and for free,” said the Stephen K. Bannon, Breitbart Executive Chairman and the film’s writer and producer. Bannon added: “It’s imperative that progressives and conservatives alike see the film to understand Hillary Clinton’s unprecedented auctioning of State Dept. policies. ”