Fresh off of her acclaimed performance of the National Anthem at the Super Bowl halftime show last week, Lady Gaga delivered an   tribute to the late David Bowie during Monday night’s Grammy ceremony. [The    singer ran through a collection of the late artists’ hits, beginning with a few bars of “Space Oddity” and continuing through “Changes,” “Ziggy Stardust,” and “Suffragette City. ”   Bowie passed away in January at age 69 after a long battle with cancer. Chic guitarist and former Bowie producer Nile Rodgers joined Gaga during the second half of the musical tribute on such Bowie classics as “Rebel Rebel,” “Fashion,” “Fame,” and “Heroes. ” While the performance was relatively   by critics and Grammy viewers, at least one person seemingly didn’t like it: Bowie’s son, Duncan Jones, tweeted a mocking message late Monday night: ”overexcited or irrational, typically as a result of infatuation or excessive enthusiasm mentally confused.” Damn it!  What IS that word!?  —   Duncan Jones (@ManMadeMoon) February 16, 2016,  Jones had posted the dictionary definition of “Gaga. ” Others blasted the singer and the awards show for featuring a commercial for Intel both immediately before and after the segment. following Lady Gaga’s Bowie tribute with a Lady Gaga   intel ad just confirms all my worst suspicions about what a craven exercise it was.  —   david ehrlich (@davidehrlich) February 16, 2016,  *does performance dedicated to Bowie then does Intel commercial making money off Bowie*  @ladygaga,  —   k. (@kaylasloren) February 16, 2016,  What was so ’innovative’ about Gaga Bowie tribute? It was a sad Vegas medley made into an Intel commercial. Bowie deserved better. #GRAMMYs,  —   Joshua Sanchez (@joshuasanchez76) February 16, 2016,  I love Nile and I don’t mind Gaga, but Bowie really deserved better than that cheeseball, schizophrenic mess of an Intel commercial.  —   T. Cole Rachel (@tcolerachel) February 16, 2016,  Watch Lady Gaga’s full performance above, and read the recap of Monday night’s Grammy Awards here.