Following the outbreak of violence against Donald Trump supporters in San Jose yesterday, Vox editor Emmett Rensin called for   protesters to double down on their rioting. [Advice: If Trump comes to your town, start a riot.  —   Emmett Rensin (@emmettrensin) June 3, 2016,   Let’s be clear: It’s never a shame to storm the barricades set up around a fascist.  —   Emmett Rensin (@emmettrensin) June 3, 2016,  Despite outrage from other users on Twitter, Rensin doubled down in a bizarre   comment. Listen, if Trump is Hitler then you’ve got no business condemning rioters. If he isn’t, you’ve got no business pretending normal is better.  —   Emmett Rensin (@emmettrensin) June 3, 2016,  Rensin’s point appears to be that the punditry, who have regularly compared Trump to a fascist dictator and a threat to democracy, ought to be supporting, or at least not condemning,   violence. 1. Spend half a year calling Trump a xenophobic fascist. 2. Likely victims of xenophobic fascism act out. 3. ”WHAT HOW COULD THIS HAPPEN”  —   Emmett Rensin (@emmettrensin) June 3, 2016,  But again, the point is that you cannot spend a year calling a man a unique threat to democracy then be shocked when people act that way.  —   Emmett Rensin (@emmettrensin) June 3, 2016,  If you too believe he’s a fascist, then ask yourself what it means to concern troll poor, Latino folks who take that belief seriously.  —   Emmett Rensin (@emmettrensin) June 3, 2016,  You spent a year saying Trump was a fascist, and particularly an   bigot. Hispanics take that seriously, and you’re Shocked.  —   Emmett Rensin (@emmettrensin) June 3, 2016,  And listen: I do tend to agree Trump is atypically threatening. That’s why I’m not going to condemn rioters.  —   Emmett Rensin (@emmettrensin) June 3, 2016,  Rensin, who admitted to being a communist in a later tweet, responded to critics accusing him of inciting violence by claiming he was merely calling for property damage, not violence. So that’s OK then   …     @Zack_Parker_ Property Destruction Is Not Violence,  —   Emmett Rensin (@emmettrensin) June 3, 2016,  ding ding ding ding ding https:  .   —   Emmett Rensin (@emmettrensin) June 3, 2016,  He went on to mock critics who threatened to report him to the authorities for inciting violence. Look like conservative twitter has decided to Indict Me for Incitement. Good luck, my friends!  —   Emmett Rensin (@emmettrensin) June 3, 2016,  ”hello fbi””yes hello a man from twitter is trying to incite riots on the internet””my. god.”  —   Emmett Rensin (@emmettrensin) June 3, 2016,  He also suggested that conservatives were just as bad. ”No no that’s different that’s FOR America, that’s resisting an illegal Muslim tyrant!”  —   Emmett Rensin (@emmettrensin) June 3, 2016,  Vox, founded by former Daily Kos editors and edited by Ezra Klein, is   for its   biases, masked behind their seemingly objective slogan of “explain the news. ” Even so, to have one of their editors defend the violence that occurred in San Jose yesterday is likely to deepen their reputation for   wackiness even further.