GOP frontrunner Donald Trump’s campaign manager Corey Lewandowski joined Breitbart News Saturday on SiriusXM with guest host Washington Political Editor Matthew Boyle and called for Sen. Ted Cruz ( ) and Ohio Gov. John Kasich to unite behind Trump. [“After Tuesday night, Ted Cruz, like John Kasich, is now mathematically eliminated from securing enough delegates to be the Republican nominee, and what we want is everyone to support Donald Trump,” Lewandowski told Boyle. He added he wants Cruz and Kasich to “come in, join the campaign, unite around the frontrunner and lets make sure we all have our eye on the prize, which is to ensure we don’t have four more years of a Democrat in the White House. ”  “The people have spoken and they want Donald Trump to be the Republican nominee,” he added, saying Trump leads the delegate count by roughly 300 and has millions of more votes than Cruz. “We’re continuing to grow the campaign and bring more people on board so we are prepared for a general election fight in November. ” “What we know is that we want Senator Cruz to join us and we want John Kasich to join us so that we have a unified voice moving forward,” he repeated, stressing the need to stop a Democrat from winning in November. “If Ted Cruz were to be nominated, there is no state that Mitt Romney lost last cycle that Ted Cruz can win. That’s not the case with Donald Trump,” Lewandowski argued, saying Trump could potentially win Michigan, Pennsylvania, Florida, Virginia, New York, California, and Massachusetts in the general election. “We have the ability to expand the map. ” Lewandowski applauded the big victory in New York last Tuesday where Trump won the GOP primary with more than 60 percent of the vote, and said this coming Tuesday elections in Connecticut, Maryland, Delaware, Rhode Island, and Pennsylvania also look favorable to the billionaire. “New York was a great state for Mr. Trump. It’s the state that knows him the best,” he declared. “He received over 60 percent of the vote in a three way race. The public polls indicate Mr. Trump is going to have a very good night” next Tuesday as well. According to recent polling, Lewandowski noted that Trump is ahead of his competitors by roughly 20 points in Connecticut and ahead 18 points in Pennsylvania. Lewandowski also said Delaware is a    state with 16 delegates up for grabs. “We think we’re going to do very well there. ” He commented on a recent Washington Post article that shared an internal memo from the Trump campaign about how Trump plans to obtain 1, 400 delegates ahead of the Republican National Convention in July to secure the nomination. “Right now, we secured a minimum of 89 delegates,” Lewandowski said, referencing New York and adding that some of the delegates are still are being determined there. “We could walk away with 91 of 95 delegates in New York. That’s a great first step. ” “We’re looking to have a great night next Tuesday,” he added, referencing Delaware, Maryland, Pennsylvania, Connecticut, and Rhode Island, saying big victories in those states would be a “building block for us to move forward. ” He added, “There [are] a number of places still in play here long before you get to California,” mentioning New Jersey as it is a    state with 51 delegates at stake “where Mr. Trump’s ground game there is unmatched by anybody. ” “We need to go on and keep winning and that gets us to delegates,” Lewandowski concluded. Breitbart News Saturday airs from 10 a. m. to 1 p. m. every Saturday on SiriusXM Patriot Ch. 125.