Mexican politicians are calling out that country’s government for their lack of action in searching for two former governors who are wanted by the U. S. Department of Justice on money laundering and drug charges. The politicians are asking the Mexican government to offer a reward for their capture. [The request was made through a letter signed by Senator Sandra Luz Guajardo on behalf of her and other senators from the National Action Party (PAN). The letter was presented before the Mexican Senate this week.   In the letter, the PAN senate members ask Mexico’s Attorney General’s Office actively attempt to apprehend and offer cash rewards for former Tamaulipas governors Eugenio Hernandez Flores and Tomas Yarrington Ruvalcaba. Both fugitives of the U. S. DOJ have been harbored by Mexican politicians.  Leaked documents obtained by Breitbart Texas revealed that the Tamaulipas government had been harboring both Yarrington and Hernandez and even provided them with a security detail. The leaked document published by Breitbart Texas revealed that the administration of Egidio Torre Cantu had assigned Ministerial Police officers to serve as armed bodyguards for Yarrington and Hernandez. Breitbart Texas has reported in the past, both governors are current fugitives of the U. S. Department of Justice wanted in Texas on money laundering and drug charges. Currently, Mexico is controlled by the Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) a party that has had multiple members linked to organized crime and corruption,  Breitbart Texas reported. In the letter that Guajardo presented to the senate, she claims that the Mexican government has publicly gone after  Javier Duarte Ochoa, the former governor of Veracruz who was kicked out of the PRI as well as Guillermo Paredes Elias, who is not from the PRI.  However, the government has not gone after Yarrington or Hernandez who continue to make public appearances in Mexico.  Ildefonso Ortiz is an award winning journalist with Breitbart Texas. He   the Cartel Chronicles project and you can follow him on Twitter and on Facebook.