PITTSBURGH  —   The Miami Dolphins won the coin toss Sunday and kicked off to the Pittsburgh Steelers, a decision that in retrospect seemed a tad misguided. But then it was not as if electing to receive would have been a wiser choice. A more prudent, if somewhat unorthodox, strategy would have been doing something else entirely with the football. Hiding it, for example. Maybe beneath the Dolphins’ parkas. Because without the ball, the Steelers’ offense could not score. And if the Steelers’ offense could not score, then the Dolphins might actually have stood a chance of winning Sunday’s playoff game at Heinz Field instead of absorbing a comprehensive demolition. The   defeat, which reaffirmed Pittsburgh as a formidable A. F. C. contender, held less suspense than a romantic comedy. All of 2 minutes 45 seconds elapsed before Pittsburgh scored on an exquisite    (50 yards) by Antonio Brown. That preceded another exquisite    by Brown (62 yards) which preceded a scoring rush by Le’Veon Bell, who accounted for all 78 yards on that drive (excluding a   penalty) all on runs, 10 in a row. It was as if the Steelers kept giving him the ball because they had grown bored of demoralizing Miami through the air. Finishing with 167 yards, Bell set the team   postseason record in his playoff debut. He missed the playoffs two seasons ago with a hyperextended knee. Last year, a torn knee ligament sidelined him. The Steelers have been eagerly waiting for their redoubtable trio of Bell, Brown and quarterback Ben Roethlisberger, who completed his first 11 passes for 188 yards, to play in the postseason together. They combined for all four touchdowns, scored across the first seven series (one was a   before halftime) in a performance that showcased Pittsburgh at the apex of its intimidating might. “We can attack in different ways,” Bell said. All of them are devastating. Especially those that involve Brown, who turned two short passes into long touchdowns, and Bell. Not since Barry Sanders, perhaps, has the N. F. L. seen a running back as destructively patient as Bell. He takes the handoff. Then he waits. “I’m standing back there and I’m watching, and I’m like, ‘Uh, are you going to go any time here? ’” Roethlisberger said of Bell. The length of Bell’s pause varies from play to play, but it allows him to survey the field, set up his blockers and find creases. Accelerating through, he leaves defenders in his wake, then drags them through it. “He’s a man for all situations or circumstances,” Coach Mike Tomlin said. When Miami’s defensive coordinator, Vance Joseph, was asked last week how he prioritized containing Brown, Bell and Roethlisberger, he chose Bell first. “If you can’t contain Bell, you can’t contain A. B. ,” Joseph said, using Brown’s nickname. The Dolphins, overwhelmed by the challenge, did neither. The burden of preparing for the Steelers now belongs to the Kansas City Chiefs, who will host Pittsburgh on Sunday afternoon in a rematch of a Week 4 game. The Steelers won by 29 points that night, but there is folly in perceiving past as prologue. The Dolphins’ resurfacing in the postseason after an   absence elicited much joy not only in South Florida, but also in western Pennsylvania, where the Steelers seethed all week, eager to avenge an October rout. That win ignited Miami’s recovery from a   start and foretold the steamrollering that running back Jay Ajayi, who rushed for 204 yards that day, would administer to defensive game plans. Even thinking about that defeat angered the Steelers’ defensive coordinator, Keith Butler, who said it “really challenges your manhood. ” The Steelers pride themselves on playing a physical style. Shoved around that day, they vowed to inflict pain Sunday. “We just wanted to get out there and be as physical and as violent as we could be,” safety Mike Mitchell said. “Like I said, our   was to tee off on them. It wasn’t to wrap up and make tackles. ” Ajayi exceeded 200 yards twice more during the regular season. He never came close Sunday, smothered by Pittsburgh’s front. He finished with 33 yards on 16 carries. “We always can get better, but we was cooking today,” defensive end Stephon Tuitt said. “It was fun to cook. ” The essence of Mitchell’s proclamation  —   “The goal was to tee off on them I can’t say that enough”  —   permeated the rest of the defense, which nearly turned Miami’s suboptimal quarterback situation even more dire midway through the second quarter. Starting a fourth consecutive week in place of the injured Ryan Tannehill (knee) Matt Moore left the pocket and, after releasing a pass, encountered linebacker Bud Dupree. He did not hit Moore so much as nearly dislodge Moore’s head from his body. “You just see a sack,” said Dupree, who had not yet seen a replay. Moore crumpled to the field and lay there as a skirmish that began near the Miami sideline expanded closer to midfield. It seemed to take less time for Moore to be examined for a concussion, and other injuries, than he spent on the ground. He missed one play. “I got checked out, I felt fine,” Moore said. “It was more of my jaw than anything else. I felt good. I came back in, and I was fine. ” On that drive, the Dolphins kicked a field goal to draw to within  . But on their next two series, on either side of halftime, Moore was   losing the ball  —   and, soon enough, the game for the Dolphins. Pittsburgh, which has won eight straight, has not lost since Nov. 13, when Dallas pilfered a late victory that earned the wrath of Roethlisberger, who demanded afterward that the Steelers play with more discipline and accountability. Those elements returned, and so did the A. F. C. North crown, borrowed for a year by Cincinnati. The Steelers reached this stage of the playoffs last season before losing at Denver. They did not have Bell, or even Brown, who sat with a concussion. Now they have both. And Roethlisberger, who said he would play next week despite an injured ankle encased afterward in a walking boot. And a healthy offensive line. And a snarling defense. But still. “I’m not excited about this,” guard Ramon Foster said after the win. Why? “It’s bigger than this week,” he added, referring to the coming game against the Chiefs.