During an appearance with Fox News’s Sean Hannity in Las Vegas Monday night, Donald Trump said that his administration would prosecute Hillary Clinton. Video and transcript below:   —    —    Hannity: We were talking during the break about Hillary Clinton. If you win you’ll have an Attorney General. The statute of limitations will not have passed. Trump: Six years, actually. Well, look, you have no choice. We have to solve all sorts of problems. In fairness, you have to look into [Hillary]. Maybe she can prove her innocence, but it just seems to me that, I think the public knows everything that they are going to know. The emails have come out. She seems to be guilty, but you know what, I wouldn’t even say that.  But certainly it has to be looked at.   …     If I win, certainly I will look at that as being fair to everyone else. [This is] so unfair to the people that have been prosecuted over the years for doing much less than she did. So she’s being protected but if I win, it is certainly something I will look into. The Washington Examiner adds: Hannity asked if Clinton might be running to help ensure that a Republican doesn’t prosecute her for how she allowed classified information to be routinely sent around on her   server, and Trump agreed that Clinton is running the race of her life for that very reason. “So she’s being protected, but if I win, certainly it’s something we’re going to look at,” he said. The   candidate criticized how the government has gone after other leaders like former CIA Director David Petraeus for lesser crimes, but has not followed suit against Clinton. The politics here are genius. By making this very careful statement, Trump keeps the looming possibility of Hillary Clinton being indicted alive. Even if the Obama administration gives her a pass, as we all expect, Trump can drive the DC Media insane by keeping the indictment threat alive through the end of the general election. Hillary’s media will be desperate to put this entire issue to bed after the Obama administration grants her absolution. Trump is not going to allow that to happen, The idea of the Clintons finally facing justice for their sins will also keep the base excited. Once again, Trump is violating all of the DC Media’s rules that are set up to elect Democrats. Like Bill and Hillary’s sordid past with all of these women, Trump goes there and goes there and goes there.   Follow John Nolte on Twitter @NolteNC                