On Tuesday’s broadcast of the Fox News Channel’s “Hannity,” WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange stated WikiLeaks has released “Thousands of examples, where she, herself, has used a c in brackets, and signed it off, and more than 22, 000 times that she has received cables from others with this c in brackets. So, it’s absolutely incredible for Clinton to lie. She is lying about not knowing what that is,” and that “an important part of civil liberties is respect for the First Amendment and the rule of law, and that has broken down under the Obama administration, and Hillary Clinton was part of that process. ”  Assanged said, “In the FBI report released Friday, I agree with your analysis, it is very strange that was released Friday afternoon on a labor weekend. I do think it draws questions to what sort of game the FBI is trying to play. But, there is, Hillary Clinton says that she can’t remember what a c in brackets stands for. Everyone in positions of government, and in WikiLeaks knows it stands for classified, confidential. And in fact, we have already released thousands of cables by Hillary Clinton  …    with a c in bracket right there. Thousands of examples, where she, herself, has used a c in brackets, and signed it off, and more than 22, 000 times that she has received cables from others with this c in brackets. So, it’s absolutely incredible for Clinton to lie. She is lying about not knowing what that is, but it’s a bit disturbing that James Comey goes along with that game. ” Earlier he stated, “WikiLeaks has, you know, we specialize in bringing the First Amendment to the world. We are always very surprised that one of our biggest battles would be trying to bring it to the United States under an Obama administration. ” He added, “Well, because if you see the rhetoric coming out of the Democrats, it’s that they’re   liberties, and an important part of civil liberties is respect for the First Amendment and the rule of law, and that has broken down under the Obama administration, and Hillary Clinton was part of that process. She has  —   and the Obama administration has, attempted to prosecute more journalists and journalistic sources under the Espionage Act, that same Espionage Act that she was being investigated under, than all previous presidencies combined. Not just more than any one of them, more than all of them combined. So there’s, under Obama, an epidemic has developed of abusing national security laws to crack down on what is legitimate use of the First Amendment. ” Follow Ian Hanchett on Twitter @IanHanchett