As Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton routinely breached security and diplomatic protocol, according to an FBI interview with a professional who served on Clinton’s protective detail. [The agent worked for both Clinton and former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and described to the FBI a “stark difference” between the two when it came to obeying protocol.  “Rice observed strict adherence to State Department security and diplomatic protocols while Clinton frequently and ‘blatantly’ disregarded them,” the interview notes read. Some examples: Riding With Huma  —   Clinton frequently refused to arrive at foreign diplomatic functions with the local ambassador, choosing her chief of staff Huma Abedin to ride in the vehicle with her instead. “This frequently resulted in complaints by ambassadors who were insulted and embarrassed by this breach of protocol,” the report read. The report noted that Abedin possessed “much more power” over Clinton’s schedule. Security Breach  —   Clinton demanded that she visit an area of Jakarta, Indonesia for a photo op to promote her “clean cooking stoves” initiative, despite warnings from security to cancel the trip for her safety. Department of State agents felt “Clinton traveled with   media who would present her in favorable light in order to garner political support” the report noted. Roll Down the Window! Clinton repeatedly demanded that the driver of her vehicle in the Palestinian territory open his window. “Repeated demands by Clinton forced him to open his window despite the danger to himself and the occupants,” the report noted. Problems With Security Detail, Clinton used a Secret Service detail at home, instead of Department of State Security, a demand that made it difficult for both agencies. The person noted that Clinton’s staff was “staffed largely with new agents because it was difficult to find senior agents willing to work with her. ” The BlackBerry, According to security guidelines, mobile phones are not allowed inside Clinton’s office at the Secretary of State and must be left behind at a secure locker. “Clinton refused to abide to this security requirement and brought her cell phone, believed to be a BlackBerry inside the SCIF where a DS agent assigned to Post 1 was required to guard it,” the report notes. “DS agents were indignant that they were required to follow security policy but Clinton made herself exempt from the same regulations. ”