Center for Security Policy President Frank Gaffney joined SiriusXM host Alex Marlow on Wednesday’s Breitbart News Daily to offer his thoughts on the election of Donald Trump as President of the United States. [“First of all, thank God,” said Gaffney. “I think the comment you guys have made so far is right, up to a point: the Republic has a chance to be saved. And I think the team that Donald Trump is going to be bringing around him  —   including, I’m quite confident, the superb people that you mentioned a moment ago, Steve Bannon, Kellyanne, General Flynn, and others  —   are actually going to lead us to saving the Republic. ”   “It is a great blessing literally from God, but also I think obviously from the candidate himself, Donald Trump, and not least, Breitbart,” he declared. “And I just want to salute you guys for the incredibly important role you’ve played, I believe, in bringing this moment to pass. ” Gaffney said Trump’s election was “clearly a popular revolt against the elite, the bipartisan elite. ” “What fueled this, as you know so well because you both were speaking to those who felt this way, and you were giving voice to them by the millions, people felt that they had been betrayed not only by Barack Obama  —   that was clear  —   but by their own leadership in the Republican Party, in the Senate, and in the House, who they’d given mandates to, to stop the abuses of the Democrats and Obama most especially,” Gaffney said. “So this was a revolt very much in the spirit of Brexit,” he continued. “You guys covered that so well, as well, and know that sentiment was alive on both sides of the pond. What we’re tapping into now, I hope, is an opportunity  —   again in the spirit of saving the Republic  —   for a course correction. And there will be tremendous pressure, I need not tell you, on Donald Trump to forget about that, in the spirit of comity and in the spirit of trying to move past all of this unpleasantness, and pull the nation together. ” Gaffney said it was “absolutely essential” for Trump to insist on “new leadership in the United States Congress, people who will be reliable partners and allies for him. ” “The Democrats will, of course, once they stop licking their wounds, figure out how to sabotage him at every turn,” Gaffney anticipated. “The question is, will he have Republicans in charge who want to help him succeed, or will he have guys who, you know, we’ve been wrestling with for whatever it’s been now, the past four or six years, who have been more concerned about getting along with the Democrats than in trying to respond to this popular sentiment and protect our Republic against the global statists, as you’ve described them. ” Looking ahead to Trump’s first hundred days, Gaffney said there were “many things said in the course of the campaign that could be the basis for a   program in the national security space. ” “Clearly rebuilding the military is front and center,” he said. “That won’t get done in a hundred days, but it’s got to get started in it. Cleaning house, in terms of lots of folks who have burrowed in, who will be sabotaging him at every turn, in all of the national security agencies  —   including, I think, the military and, frankly, the intelligence community, Homeland Security, and so on. ” “But overarching it all, it seems to me, there will be a need: he will likely be tested to deal with Russia, to deal with China, to deal with North Korea, in a form that Reagan, my old boss, used to call ‘peace through strength,’” Gaffney expected. “But most especially, everyone in the world will be watching whether he executes on his strategy of victory over jihad. He couldn’t have been more clear that that’s the problem here. We’re dealing with an Islamic terrorist movement that is global, imbued by sharia, that has to be met by preventing more of those jihadists from coming to the United States, by ensuring that people who are coming from places where sharia is the order of the day are, in fact, people who share our values,” he urged. Gaffney said one of the most critically important challenges for the new president would be “stopping, designating, rolling up the Muslim Brotherhood in America as the terrorist organization it is. ” “It’s going to be vital to everything else he’s trying to do. We’ve got to stop taking counsel from them, direction from them, and allowing them to operate in our midst subversively, and that’s what’s been going on for some fifty years now,” he said. “I just want to praise God for making this possible, and to urge all Americans to pull together, to try to ensure that we do, in fact, save the only Republic we have. God bless you all,” Gaffney concluded. Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00 a. m. to 9:00 a. m. Eastern. LISTEN: 