Tuesday on CNN’s “Wolf,” Republican presidential   Donald Trump campaign spokeswoman Katrina Pierson reacted to the news Corey Lewandowski, the campaign manager for Trump, would be charged with misdemeanor battery for an incident involving former Breitbart News report Michelle Fields at a March 8 campaign event at the Trump National Golf Club in Jupiter, FL.  Pierson told host Wolf Blitzer the campaign had “total confidence” in Lewandowski and anticipates he will be exonerated. “Yes, we have total confidence in our campaign manager,” Pierson said. “And we feel he is going to be exonerated. You know, Wolf, this is no different, for example, when I am in the middle of the scrum and get smacked around by television networks. I don’t go and sue the television network because I have a cut on my arm from a camera. Everyone knows at these type of scrum events there is some jostling around and some pushing and the second you cross the Secret Service threshold you will be moved away from the candidate. This is not new. Corey Lewandowski is going to beat this. He will plead not guilty and we will have to let the process play out. ” Pierson went on to say that Lewandowski will remain with the Trump and that he wasn’t going anywhere. She went on to add there were questions about the Fields’ story’s evolution over time. “We keep forgetting the initial charges that she made, that the reporter made in her own words and they are out there, she specifically said that he aggressively grabbed her and nearly threw her to the ground,” Pierson replied. “It is very obvious that is not what happened in this case. Mr. Lewandowski is going to fight it. ” “It’s actually the reporter at The Washington Post that created the narrative,” she added. “I mean, what we have seen over time is the story did change a little bit. She didn’t even go to the authorities for a couple of days after the attention started to rev up. I think we will see moving forward she wasn’t too concerned about the reaction initially. She didn’t contact the campaign or the authorities. She didn’t contact anyone other than Twitter when the alleged incident occurred. ” Follow Breitbart. tv on Twitter @BreitbartVideo