They are supposed to be memorable and a chance to reconnect with your loved ones, but family reunions need careful planning to pull off successfully, according to Jeanne Pena, the family reunions manager at Mohonk Mountain House, a resort in New Paltz, N. Y. that hosts more than 150 family reunions a year. “There are a lot of little pieces involved in making sure that this important occasion goes smoothly,” she said. Here, Ms. Pena’s advice for having a family reunion you’ll remember for all the right reasons. Set the Date Far in Advance Getting a large group of family together takes a lot of coordination, and it is best to start planning the trip at least a year in advance so everyone can save the dates and book flights and accommodations. As you get closer to the date, availability will become slim, and prices will go up. Ms. Pena said to be firm about sticking to a date once it has been chosen. “You want to accommodate as many people as possible, but you’re unlikely to find a time that works for everyone,” she said. Consider a House Rental Homes offer many benefits for family reunions, including multiple private bedrooms, fully equipped kitchens and communal living and outdoor spaces where everyone can gather. Look for rentals on Airbnb. com, HomeAway. com or Vrbo. com, or seek out resorts that have   private residences these options give you the space and privacy of a home along with the services of a resort such as daily housekeeping and access to a pool, spa and other amenities. Mohonk, for example, recently opened Grove Lodge, a     residence that was built with family reunions in mind. Pick a Destination With Activities Ms. Pena says it’s important to find a destination where all generations of your family can have a good time with a variety of activity options. “You want a hotel or home that offers or is near a golf course, a pool, a spa, a lake where you can go swimming or fishing, hiking trails, bike rentals and more,” she said. For hotels suited to family reunions, she suggested the Cloister in Sea Island, Ga. Teton Mountain Lodge  Spa in Teton Village, Wyo. and Grand Hotel in Mackinac Island, Mich. Plan a Themed Event The purpose of a reunion is to spend time with your family, but Ms. Pena said that in many instances, people tend to go their separate ways to participate in their favorite activities and get little time together as a group. She suggested designating one afternoon or evening of your reunion for a fun collective event such as a Mexican fiesta with a mariachi band, a   barbecue with rodeo music, or a dance party of oldies tunes. “In my experience, parties where everyone in the family gathers together are the highlight of the reunion,” she said.