They read like descriptions of props from the script of a Hollywood heist caper, with promises to ward off “attacks” on all six sides from the usual suspects: hammer, crowbar, drill, blowtorch, nitroglycerin. That is the language of the brochures and websites of the city’s safe dealers, a small but longstanding industry that manages fears in and around the diamond district not only of disasters like fires or explosions, but also of hypothetical supervillains. When a safe is breached, word travels quickly. What happened? Whose safe was it? How did they get in? Those were the sorts of questions raised last week after a team of burglars broke into a jeweler’s office on West 36th Street on New Year’s Eve. The crime was widely reported for its scope  —   the thieves made off with $6 million in diamonds and other gems  —   and its brazen timing, occurring as the ball dropped six blocks away in a neighborhood teeming with police officers. Surveillance video showing two people hitting a   door with hammers was taken immediately after midnight, the police said, when the sound of cheers would have most likely drowned out any banging. But what happened next is, to many in the safe industry, more important than the forced entry. The two safes that held the valuables, the police said, showed no sign of forced entry. The police have not provided further details on the safes. News reports have suggested investigators are looking into whether someone working for the dealer who provided the safes gave the thieves the combinations. A man answering the telephone at the office of the dealer, Lacka Safe in New Jersey, said on Friday that the owners declined to comment. As that investigation unfolds, the burglary  —   or “attack,” in   security parlance  —   draws attention to the last line of defense for the city’s many jewelers, an object that, for all the advances in technology over the years, remains a box with three sides, a top, a bottom and a door.   safes evoke exciting scenes from the movies, with steely safecrackers listening for clicks or drilling into dense steel with lasers. In reality, though, making safes is a hushed trade built on discretion and trust. “I get calls all the time, ‘Are your people O. K.?’” said Richard Krasilovsky of Empire Safe in Midtown. “How safe is it  —   all puns intended  —   for your people to do the work? The people know where the safe is going. I say it’s a legitimate question to ask. ” Dealers carry an array of safes and locks, including digital locks with keypads and time locks that prevent anyone from opening the door, with or without the combination, while they’re activated. The jewelers of Manhattan historically prefer more traditional designs for their safes, dealers said last week, with mechanical combination locks. “It’s an older industry,” said Dov Israeli of Precision Lock and Safe in Floral Park, N. Y. “They’re focused on price and less on what’s new. ” A jeweler typically requires a certain level of protection to satisfy its insurance company. These levels shown in ratings by Underwriters Laboratories, such as   or   indicate that safecrackers at the lab, using tools and torches, were unable to breach any of the six sides of the safe in 60 or 30 minutes. That is probably a greater margin of safety than the standard jeweler needs. “  point nine nine nine percent of burglars out there can’t penetrate a properly made ” Mr. Krasilovsky said. A brochure for a line of safes at Empire states that they are made of “  and   armor” for “greater protection against attack,” and that they protect against everything from “hammers and simple drills, to thermal and electrical equipment, such as oxyacetylene torches and disk cutters. ” Mr. Krasilovsky said he met potential clients to offer a risk assessment based on what they were protecting and other factors, looking for what he called “an Achilles’ heel. ” “It’s very easy to sell somebody protection, which is a safe,” he said. “I try to sell prevention. Protection is a science. I don’t want the schmucks coming onto the premises. ” A cheaper safe may meet the requirements of an insurance company, while appearing to a burglar to be vulnerable. A technician sets the combination for a safe’s lock for the first time. “We have you write it on a piece of paper,” and hand it to the technician, Mr. Israeli said. Some dealers may keep a copy for a period of time, in case the safe’s owner should need it. “We tear it up  —   we won’t keep a combination for you,” he said. “It’s not even a service we will provide. ”