A coalition of more than 40 musicians is promoting a digital compilation of songs titled “We Have a Bevin Problem” to protest Kentucky Gov. Matt Bevin’s   and conservative policies. [The musicians contributed songs with titles such as “Can You Show Me on the Doll Where Mr. Bevin Touched You?” and “Crotch Crucifix” to attack Bevin for following through with his gubernatorial campaign platform.  “Musicians in Kentucky responded in song to the attacks on women’s reproductive rights, affordable health care, the LGBTQIA+ community, education and progress in general in our beloved state through song,” the organizers of the   compilation say. Other song titles on the compilation include: “So Called Christian Politician” by Tyler Gill, “Heap of His Heart” by American Lesions, “Liar” by Babe Rage, “Birthing Slavery” by Civilian, and “Lunatic, You Make Me Sick” by D. W. Box. The cost to download the compilation is $10. All funds from the purchase of the download are reportedly being donated to Planned Parenthood of Indiana and Kentucky. Bevin filed a lawsuit against the Planned Parenthood affiliate, claiming it performed abortions illegally without a license in its new location in Louisville. In addition, he signed a bill into law that strengthens the state’s informed consent law prior to abortion. Women are now required to have a    or live   medical consultation about the procedure at least 24 hours prior to an abortion. “This administration will have no tolerance for the type of brazen disregard that Planned Parenthood has shown for both the safety of women and the rule of law,” Bevin said in February. “We will hold Planned Parenthood accountable for knowingly endangering their patients by providing illegal abortions at a facility that was not properly licensed nor prepared to handle an emergency. ” According to WFPL, musician J. Mitchell, whose band Nellie Pearl performs a song titled “Comfort in the Right” on the digital compilation, said, “I was excited to find out about the project because everyone in the band is very outspoken about their views, and we try to get involved in the political process when we can. ” Nevertheless, national   leader Lila Rose, president of Live Action, tells Breitbart News, “Gov. Bevin is doing his job, stopping an unlicensed abortion facility and standing up for the safety of Kentucky’s women and their preborn children. ” “It’s too bad that these people don’t bother to research who they’re so blindly supporting  —   a corporation that kills nearly 900 preborn children each day in the United States, and one that thinks it’s above the law in Kentucky,” she added. Bevin was elected last November and took office as governor on December 8. Since becoming governor, he dismantled Kentucky’s health insurance exchange created by Obamacare, and also gave a religious accommodation via executive order to Rowan County Court Clerk Kim Davis, who sparked a religious liberty debate when she spent five nights in jail following her refusal to issue   marriage licenses due to her faith convictions.