Donald Trump’s RNC speech wasn’t “dark. ” It wasn’t about “spreading fear. ” It was simply the truth. And Hillary’s vision of America is pure fraud, fiction and fantasy. [This morning revealed the proof  …    and the wreckage.   Two more policeman shot, one killed (in San Diego). Donald’s version of America is correct  —   there is a war on police under Obama. And the economy isn’t in recovery. It’s in free   just as Trump warned. The Fed announced 2nd quarter GDP this morning at a disastrous 1. 2 percent. Just as Trump   the economy is on the verge of collapse under Obama. Donald Trump isn’t “dark. ” He’s just telling the truth. He’s warning us before it’s too   we re in crisis, the sky is in fact falling. Donald is a modern day Paul Revere. Hillary made it clear last night she supports Obama’s version of America. She is officially running for a 3rd term of Obama. She is promising more of the same policies as Obama. She is   Part Duex. Great! Let’s brand her with it. Start morphing the two lovebirds into #OBAMAHILLARY. Make them into the same person. Make Hillary own Obama and his miserable results. Make this election a referendum on the   economy. Despite eight long years of lies and propaganda from government and the mainstream media, it’s clear Obama and Hillary’s policies are destroying our economy and our middle class. They can’t cover up the lies any longer. It’s all going   FAST.   Here is a powerful list of shocking, damning, specific facts about the Obama economy: GDP (Gross Domestic Product) is the only real determinate of economic growth. Barack Obama is the only president in the history of America to preside over seven straight years of GDP growth under 3 percent. The White House economists just announced that GDP for Obama’s last year will be 1. 9 percent. Obama will therefore become the only president in America’s history to never produce a single year of 3 percent or higher GDP. Even Herbert Hoover outperformed Obama! The longest previous streak of under 3 percent GDP in the history of America was four years (1930 to 1933) during the depths of the Great Depression. From 1790 to 2000, America’s economy averaged GDP growth of 3. 79 percent. Obama’s eight years are on pace to average GDP of 1. 55 percent  —   substantially less than half of our country’s average economic growth for 210 years. Even worse, GDP for Obama’s entire time as President was just downgraded by the Commerce Department by more than $300 billion. For the first time in American history, more businesses are being destroyed each day than are being created. There are 70 percent more Americans collecting entitlement checks than working in the private sector (148 million “takers” vs. 86 million “makers”). This is a fact provided by the U. S. Census Bureau. Thirteen of the 23 Obamacare State   Exchanges have failed (gone bust and broke). The remaining 10 have losses of over $200 million per year. The $1. 24 billion of federal   money used to start them all is most probably gone forever. It will never be repaid. In this Obama economy, 40 percent of American workers now earn less (adjusted for inflation) than a   minimum wage worker in 1968. Some 20 percent of U. S. families don’t have a single member who is employed: A record number of Americans are not in the workforce (over 94 million): More Young Americans now live with their parents than at any time since Great Depression. 43 percent of the 22 million student loan borrowers aren’t making any loan payments. Two thirds of Americans don’t have $500 for an emergency bill. Food stamp use under Obama is up by 43 percent. The number of new food stamp recipients under Obama is 3 times higher than new job recipients (13, 298, 000 added to food stamp rolls vs 4, 276, 000 new jobs since January 2009). The middle class has shrunk in nine out of every ten U. S. cities. For the first time in almost a half century, the middle class is no longer the economic majority in America. Pew reported the middle class is “disappearing” and “hollowing out. ” It’s time to make the U. S. economy the centerpiece of the Trump campaign. Run TV ads   touting the real facts about the   economy. Hillary keeps saying she’s running for the 3rd term of Obama. So let’s give her exactly what she wants. Make her own Obama. Make her own this economy. For the next 100 days, turn Hillary into: #OBAMAHILLARY