Just as they did when we were assured we could keep our health insurance, the hopelessly corrupt,   DC Media and Barack Obama are once again coordinating to pull the wool over the eyes of the American people, to lull us into a false sense of security before the boom falls. And make no mistake, the sinister plan is to drop the boom, maybe not on Obama’s watch, but the seeds have been planted: These people plan to flood the country with illegals, refugees, and   prisoners,  and then disarm us.  Chaos reigns. The same federal government that caused the problem poses as savior, and now that same federal government is stronger and more intrusive than ever before. The Left makes no secret of this plan. It’s called the   Strategy of Orchestrated Crisis. The DC media won’t talk about this because they are all in on it. It’s no secret either that if you boil the DC media down to its dark essence that what you will find is an institution dedicated to ennobling and empowering the federal government. Ask yourself  …     When was the last time the DC media called for a less intrusive government, for more local control, for state solution as opposed to     federal solutions? They never do. Ever. The idea is to always present central government as the solution to everything,. When CNN parks its satellite truck in Ferguson and Baltimore and openly calls for riots, what do you think is going on there? Other than come right out and use the words “Cloward” and “Piven,” the Left makes no secret of its desire to see the world burn, literally. Domestic terrorist Bill Ayers is an open advocate of  . Obama launched his political career in Ayers’ living room. Moreover, Obama and Hillary have made no secret of their desire to confiscate our guns. The fact that the DC Media coordinates to cover this truth up does not make it any less of a truth. Barack Obama, June 2014: Couple of decades ago, Australia had a mass shooting, similar to Columbine or Newtown. And Australia just said, well, that’s it, we’re not doing, we’re not seeing that again, and basically imposed very severe, tough gun laws, and they haven’t had a mass shooting since. Our levels of gun violence are off the charts. There’s no advanced, developed country that would put up with this. Barack Obama, June 2015: “When Australia had a mass killing  —   I think it was in Tasmania  —   about 25 years ago, it was just so shocking the entire country said ‘well we’re going to completely change our gun laws’ and they did. And it hasn’t happened since. ”   …     “I don’t foresee any legislative action being taken in this Congress,” he said. “And I don’t foresee any real action until the American public feels a sufficient sense of urgency and they say to themselves, ‘This is not normal, this is something that we can change and we’re going to change it’. ” Obama also lamented the rush of Americans who go and buy firearms after US shootings and the “extremely strong” grip the powerful lobby group the National Rifle Association has on Congress. Hillary Clinton, October 2015, You know, Australia’s a good example, Canada’s a good example, [and] the UK’s a good example. Why? Because each of them had mass killings, Australia had a huge mass killing about 20 or 25 years ago. Canada did as well, so did the UK. In reaction, they passed much stricter gun laws. In the Australian example, as I recall, that was a buyback program. The Australian government as part of trying to clamp down on the availability of  …    weapons offered a good price for buying hundreds of thousands of guns and basically clamped down going forward, in terms of having more of a background check approach —  more of a permitting approach. Unless you follow New Media, because the DC media covers this truth up, you have no idea what Obama and Hillary are advocating for, you have no idea that the primary component of the Australia gun law was CONFISCATION through a   buyback program: In the wake of the 1996 Port Arthur massacre, when Martin Bryant shot and killed 35 people and wounded 23, prime minister John Howard pushed through laws banning automatic,   and pump action guns, and enacted a comprehensive gun   scheme, despite strong opposition from parts of the Australian community. Obama and Hillary are bound and determined to confiscate your guns. And because the DC Media is bound and determined to take your guns, the truth behind Australia’s mandated confiscation is buried. If you want to stump a   journalist, tweet them this question: “If Obama and Hillary don’t want to confiscate guns, why do YOU think they praise Australia?” Meanwhile  …       Follow John Nolte on Twitter @NolteNC                