On the day Donald Trump became the   of the United States, 2, 000   gathered in New York City to protest his pending assumption of power. [Protesters shouting Black Lives Matter slogans gathered in Union Square to march toward New York’s Trump Towers, and then to “build a wall around Trump’s bigoted agenda,” according to a Facebook page set up to advertise the march.  Protesters also insisted the rally would protest a mélange of   issues such as a stance against mass deportations of illegal aliens, Black Lives Matter issues, opposition to the Dakota Access Pipeline, arguments against “rape culture,” and opposition to the “elite class. ” Despite calls for a peaceful acceptance of the election results by their own candidates, marchers blocked traffic, screamed obscenities, and protested the president elect, making various threats that they won’t follow the American practice of political transition that has existed for over 200 years. Video showed protesters chanting such things as “Trump, Trump, go away, racist, sexist,  ” and “love trumps hate. ” NYPD monitoring the situation. Loud speaker warns that blocking traffic could result arrests. @CBSNewYork #trumpprotest #unionsquare pic. twitter.   —   Valerie Castro (@VCastroTV) November 9, 2016,  Wow! #NotMyPresident protest in NYC right now. pic. twitter.   —   Maddow Blog (@MaddowBlog) November 10, 2016,  Video: pic. twitter.   —   Maddow Blog (@MaddowBlog) November 10, 2016,  About 2 hundred protestors in Union Square, chanting against Trump. . @CBSNewYork pic. twitter.   —   Valerie Castro (@VCastroTV) November 9, 2016,  More Trump protesters marching in traffic by Times Square pic. twitter.   —   Bradd Jaffy (@BraddJaffy) November 10, 2016,  NYPD monitoring the situation. Loud speaker warns that blocking traffic could result arrests. @CBSNewYork #trumpprotest #unionsquare pic. twitter.   —   Valerie Castro (@VCastroTV) November 9, 2016,  Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston or email the author at igcolonel@hotmail. com.