Ann Coulter, author and “goddess of the online right” according to SiriusXM host Alex Marlow, joined Breitbart News Daily for a special Thanksgiving discussion on immigration, the new Trump cabinet, building the wall, the “existential threat” of   globalism, and how Donald Trump is going to save “the last Christian country on Earth. ”[“Every day is morning in Trump’s America!” declared the author of In Trump We Trust E Pluribus Awesome. “I’m happy every day. You know, that moment when you first wake up in the morning, and you’re just finishing your dream, like you’re a dog chasing a post truck  —   and then you realize, ‘Oh no, I’m a human, and I’m awake, and it’s Trump’s America! ’”  LISTEN: Coulter acknowledged that, like all elected officials, Trump faces some challenges in delivering on his campaign promises, but she thought he would come through in all the most important areas. “Take the wall itself,” she said, referring to the promised border security wall. “It’s always good, when it comes to immigration, to always be paranoid. You can never be too paranoid. But that is, which a lot of people don’t realize, the Department of Defense’s job. They’ve built walls with cannon turrets. As the name of the agency suggests, ‘Department of Defense,’ the defense refers to the United States of America  —   not the defense of South Korea, not the defense of Ukraine, not the defense of Syria or Germany. ”  “That is 100% the job of the Department of Defense, and the most extravagant, insane, Washington Post fake news estimates of what the wall would cost, it would cost less than 5% of the Department of Defense’s entire budget,” she pointed out. “So that’s a very simple thing to do, as long as he appoints the right Department of Defense Secretary. It’s very easy to get Mexico to pay for it: just deduct it from their foreign aid. I mean, he says he’s going to take other steps, requests that they pay, tax remittances, which is a fine idea, but if all else fails, just stop sending them the federal aid. That’ll pay for it in, I don’t know, a couple of years. ” Coulter also expected Trump would be able to deliver on promises to renegotiate bad trade deals, and repeal ObamaCare. “It took me like three days after the election to remember: I’m going to have health care again!” she exclaimed happily. “Because I, unlike all of you people listening who have jobs, and therefore have a waiver from ObamaCare, I, Matt Drudge, sole practitioners  —   we were all thrown off our health care plans. I have a letter saying that your health care plan has been made illegal under the Affordable Care Act. ” Looking ahead to the establishment of the Trump Administration, Marlow asked Coulter what she wanted to see from Cabinet appointments, to which she replied: “Kris Kobach, Kris Kobach, Kris Kobach. Have I mentioned Kris Kobach?” Asked to elaborate on Kobach’s virtues, Coulter said, “First of all, like you and me, Alex, there’s a reason you don’t see him on TV. He’s totally brilliant, Harvard, Yale law, Oxford  —   and not as a cheesy Rhodes Scholar. He’s tall,   has a lovely family. He’s from Kansas, he would already be a governor or a senator  —   I mean, he’s a young guy, but he’d be a governor or a senator but for the fact that it’s Kansas, and they already have a Republican governor and two Republican senators. ”  “But most importantly, he is the brains behind basically everything good that’s been done on immigration  —   and that’s nothing, for the last eight years, but basically during the Bush Administration. He wrote ” she continued. “I write about it in In Trump We Trust, the hysterically denounced ‘papers, please’ laws  —   they called the Arizona law thing, that law enforcement officers, they arrest someone and have probable cause to believe he’s illegal, they can ask about his immigration status. That was written by Kris Kobach, and all you heard was nonsense about it  —   ‘Oh, it’s like Nazi Germany!’ And that part of the law [was] upheld by the Supreme Court. You can go and see him talking about it outside the Supreme Court, I think it was the day of the arguments. These are commonsense policies. ” She said the same tactics were being used to delegitimize sensible restrictions on refugees from Middle Eastern conflict zones: “Take the Muslim registry. I mean, I prefer, ‘Hey, I know! Don’t let them in in the first place!’ instead of what we’re doing now, letting them in. There are more than a thousand terrorist investigations in this country right now that our FBI  —   which you have to pay for, taxpayer!  —   in all 50 states of the union. Here’s an idea: don’t let in people whom we need to assign 16 FBI agents to watch for the rest of their lives. ” “But Kobach, during the Bush Administration, wrote something they all talk about, including Mr. Open Borders, Fox News’ golden boy, Marco Rubio. We can’t keep track of the people coming in we need an   system. And so that’s what Kobach wrote up during the Bush Administration after  . It’s an   visa system. You can go around screaming, ‘It’s like Nazi Germany! We’re registering Muslims!’ No, but there will be a little more close attention paid to the exit and entry visas of people coming in from   countries, which again I say would be solved much more efficiently by just not letting them in,” Coulter said. She explained Trump needs people like Kobach around him to fulfill his campaign promises.  “I love Bannon being the chief strategist that’s definitely a step in the right direction,” she said. “I love Rudy Giuliani  …     what he did in New York, it’s magnificent. He’s the best defender of Donald Trump on TV. But he did make New York a sanctuary city. And even if these guys say, ‘Okay, I’ve learned my lesson Mr.   I am with you on immigration,’ we need somebody like Jeff Sessions, Kris Kobach, like Steve Miller, who are reading the fine print on these bills, who know how to push through the policies that they already have the legal and Constitutional authority to do  —   as I was mentioning at the beginning of this interview  —   such as the Department of Defense building the wall. No need for Congress to worry its pretty little head about that wall. That is 100% within the purview of the duties of the    under our Constitution. And that’s why you need someone like Kris Kobach, who is smart and has read the law and knows how to implement the policies we need implemented. ” She stressed that immigration was the single most important campaign issue for Trump to address as President  —   “with the reminder that if this exact same election, in every way exactly the same, and in fact I’ll even take the Washington Post’s entire coverage out of it, to give Trump an advantage, this same election run four years from now on our current immigration policies, and Donald Trump would have lost. ” “A lot of those battleground states were decided   and we’ve seen what the Obama Administration is doing, just hauling in the Third World,” she added. “They don’t speak English, but they can be instructed to look for symbols and know which party to vote for. And where are they being moved? They are being moved to the battleground states. Four more years, the country becomes California, and it’s over. There is no hope for anything any more. ” “So immigration has got to be the most important thing, which is why we need Kris Kobach, Secretary of State of Kansas, to be Secretary of the Homeland Security department,” she concluded. Coulter agreed with Marlow’s contention that Trump’s victory was a narrow escape from losing the border, and therefore the country. “I felt sorry for young pups like you, coming up in politics, because there would be no point,” she told Marlow. “The same way there’s no point to caring about state politics in California. All you’re going to do is lose. ”  “There’s a beautiful quote from Ronald Reagan. I think it was before the Grenada invasion, some advisors came in, and they’re telling him, ‘Oh, we don’t know how this will play, and the networks will turn against you, we’re worried how this will look.’ And Ronald Reagan was just popping jellybeans, and said: ‘You can always trust the American people.’ And I do believe that’s true, but unfortunately the Democrats know that’s true, and that’s why they’ve been bringing in foreigners to   the American people,” Coulter warned.  “When you look back at other periods in history, which is what people say to me  —   ‘there were other dark times, what about after Watergate?’ Yeah, there were dark times, but I could count on the American people. Now, the American people if anything  —   I ask your listeners. I know people who have switched parties, in the last decade or so, or in my lifetime. I would say, off the top of my head, 100% Democrat to Republican. But those people are being   and that’s literally an existential threat to the United States of America. You hear that phrase used all the time. No, this is where it is. It’s for our own country,” she declared. Coulter agreed that Hispanic immigrant populations would assimilate and become more conservative over time, but the process was too slow to keep up with the reckless pace of   immigration.  “We’re doing the Sorcerer’s Apprentice thing,” she said. “As we’re converting the ones who were brought in a few years ago, the Democrats are bringing in another million. ” She laughed when Marlow said Democrats think “the problem with America is that there are just too many Americans in it. ” “And thank God they came out to vote this year,” she said. “Oh, thank God Donald Trump decided to run. And I am not taking the Lord’s name in vain. I mean that literally. This is the last Christian country on Earth  —   and weirdly enough, this crazy, loutish reality TV star billionaire is going to save it for us. ” Coulter parted with hopes that the Trump revolution would go global.  “It certainly makes sense, because what is the matter with having countries?” she asked. “I notice that all the people who are the most hysterical at the people who think we should not deluge our country with people from very, very, very different cultures all live in   neighborhoods. All will spend $50, 000 a year to ensure their kids only go to school with other very, very rich   kids. ” “Look, we’re diverse, but we still want to have a country, and there’s nothing the matter with wanting to be around people who are like you, whether you’re French, or Japanese, or Russian,” Coulter contended. “And it is a globalist idea that, no, we will turn the entire globe into this one beige blob, and then there will be no reason to move from one country to another because it will all be the same. And the only people who make money off of that are the upper . 001 Percent. They’re in fat city, because they get to negotiate the trade deals and litigate the trade deals. But the rest of us, it’s like losing your family. It doesn’t mean you hate people who aren’t in your family. But a country is like a family. ” “I think  —   I hope  —   Western Europe can save itself, because I’d still like to go visit,” she said wistfully. Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00 a. m. to 9:00 a. m. Eastern. Listen to the full audio of Coulter’s interview above.