Police are searching for a gunman on the UCLA campus who allegedly shot two victims Wednesday morning. [BruinAlert: Shooting at Engineering 4. Go to secure location and deny entry (lockdown) now!  —   UCLA Bruin Alert (@UCLABruinAlert) June 1, 2016,   Fox News’ Jonathan Hunt confirmed that there are “two victims,” but there is no confirmation of their condition. At 10:39 am Pacific Time, Hunt reported that there is an “active shooter” situation on campus. The suspect is said to be a white male, about six feet tall, wearing a black jacket and black pants. UCLA Newsroom tweeted that the shooting is believed to have taken place in Boelter Hall. BREAKING: #UCLA is on lockdown after a shooting report. Here are the Bruin alerts forwarded to me by a UCLA student: pic. twitter.   —   Whitney Ashton (@whit_ashton) June 1, 2016,  CBS Los Angeles reports that the alert of an “active shooter” on Boelter Hall was sent by UCLA police around 10 a. m. Pacific Time. The shooter is described “as a Caucasian man who stands around   tall. He was last seen wearing a black jacket and black pants. ” UCLA is under a lock down shooting. EVERYONE PLEASE GO INSIDE. DONT COME TO CAMPUS.  —   Grace 은혜 (@hellograciemae) June 1, 2016,  Students and faculty have barricaded themselves inside classrooms, improvising where necessary: Doors open outward with no locks so we had to improvise our own locking mechanism #uclashooting #engineers pic. twitter.   —   Pranasha Shrestha (@pranashalovesu) June 1, 2016,  Using my belt to lock the door down. #UCLA #activeshooter pic. twitter.   —   Carrie Rapaport ⚽️ (@newt_ripley) June 1, 2016,  There is a report that at least one victim has been evacuated: BREAKING: Victim at #UCLA seen on a stretcher following reports of a shooting. Watch @KTLA now for updates. pic. twitter.   —   Val Gratias (@valeriegratias) June 1, 2016,  11:00 a. m. PDT: Police are now reportedly going door to door inside UCLA buildings: Cops now checking door to door. Making sure doors are locked? #UCLA #UCLAshooting pic. twitter.   —   Karaface (@karaleung) June 1, 2016,  11:07 a. m. PDT: LAPD reports that the two victims are dead.   11’s Araksya Karapetyan confirms the two UCLA shooting victims are dead. She tweeted, “LAPD confirming two peopled dead. ” 11:12 a. m. PDT: The Los Angeles Times confirms that police are searching    for the shooter: Police generally search for suspect in small teams using “grid by grid” system. In this case, officers are going classroom to classroom, lab to lab to “clear” each one as they go. The idea is to make sure all areas are safe before moving on. This process was used last year during the terrorist attack in San Bernardino, which killed 14 people at the Inland Regional Center. Police slowly cleared the area and later tracked down the shooters. In that case, the sweep uncovered explosive devices that the shooters left at the center. 11:17 a. m. PDT: Student Laura Marina posted her perspective from inside the lockdown on Instagram: Class ended early because of the shooting. A few left and a few of us decided to stay put and watch the news during this lockdown  …     Shooter is said to be moving toward Hilgard, which is next to this building! I hope we’re safe here  …     11:21 a. m. PDT: Photos from campus show a police officer searching evacuated students: UCLA shooting. #UCLA #shooting pic. twitter.   —   Irfan Khan (@latfoto) June 1, 2016,  11:25 a. m. PDT: KTLA’s Tara Wallis reports that some students are being evacuated with their hands up others are waiting inside buildings on campus waiting to be evacuated. LAPD clearing all buildings and students coming out calmly during this frightening situation at UCLA pic. twitter.   —   Tara Wallis (@tarawallis) June 1, 2016,  11:27 a. m. PDT: Helicopters are visible and audible from the Breitbart News headquarters, which is near UCLA in Los Angeles. 11:30 a. m. PDT: More images are emerging from inside the lockdown. Image from inside UCLA right now sent by a friend that is there under lock down after the shooting. pic. twitter.   —   Lorena de la Cuesta (@LorenadlaCuesta) June 1, 2016,  Meanwhile, Fox News Channel reports that the two victims are male. 11:35 a. m. PDT: More lockdown images: Group of us locked in campus cafe   the lights out. Multiple shooters reported. UCLA is on lockdown. #UCLAshooting pic. twitter.   —   Cassie Thompson (@CassieMThompson) June 1, 2016,  It should be good  …     #UCLA #lockdown pic. twitter.   —   Quentin Riffard (@QuentinRiffard) June 1, 2016,  Reports of a shooting on campus in engineering. I’m in a computer lab in   locked the door. Cops running around with rifles. #Ucla,  —   Jason Schechter (@Jasonschechter) June 1, 2016,  The doors open outward and we can’t lock them so we are barricading things in front of the door #Ucla #activeshooter pic. twitter.   —   Jason Schechter (@Jasonschechter) June 1, 2016,  12:00 p. m. PDT: Multiple news outlets, citing NBC Los Angeles and LAPD sources, suggest that the shooting may in fact have been a  . According to Fox 11’s Gigi Graciette, a suicide note was found at the scene near the two shooting victims on the UCLA campus. Graciette tweeted: “BREAKING: Sources say suicide note was found near two people down. Police still treating this as ‘active shooter’ until building cleared. ” BREAKING: Sources say suicide note was found near two people down. Police still treating this as ”active shooter” until bldg cleared. @FOXLA,  —   Gigi Graciette (@GigiGraciette) June 1, 2016,   12:47 p. m. PDT: During a televised press conference after noon, Los Angeles Police Department Chief Charlie Beck confirmed that the shooting on the UCLA campus is now being handled as a “homicide investigation. ” He confirmed one homicide, one suicide. He said it appears that the incident was “entirely contained” and there is “no continuing threat to UCLA’s campus. ” He said a gun was recovered at the scene. AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.