WASHINGTON, D. C.  —   Breitbart Texas team members travelled to the nation’s capital for an immigration briefing hosted by the Center for Immigration Studies (CIS). Following a reception featuring Senator Jeff Sessions ( ) three Breitbart journalists agreed to an interview with Peter “DaTechGuy” Ingemi at The National Press Club. [Breitbart Texas Managing Director Brandon Darby spoke about his focus on border security and the criminal activities of cartels and other border groups. He said getting information about the economic and social impact of immigration would be a good addition to the work he has done along the nation’s southwestern border from Texas to California.   Darby and Ingemi also discussed human smuggling and human trafficking. Darby said that two of the major cartels who control most of the Texas border with Mexico, “actually make more money from illegal immigration than they make from narcotics. ” Ingemi also interviewed Breitbart Texas Associate Editor Bob Price. Price discussed the economic, social, and political impact of illegal immigration on Texas. He talked about the efforts of Democrats to turn Texas blue and how Breitbart Texas was created to combat this effort and expose the biased    Texas media.  In addition, Price discussed Texans’ concerns about Second Amendment rights in light of the recent ruling by the U. S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. He addressed the abuse of human smuggling victims at the hands of the drug cartels. Ingemi also interviewed Breitbart News journalist Patrick Howley. As a reporter covering the 2016 presidential races, Howley discussed the evolution and rise of the populist movement within the Republican presidential primary. “I think Donald Trump has really harnessed this energy and harnessed this spirit of populism more than any politician I’ve ever seen. ” When Howley was being interviewed by the “Da Tech Guy” blogger, Ingemi said he was a “Cruz guy” but added that “the Orlando speech (by Trump) was a game changer. ” The two discussed the President’s framing of the attack as a gun issue,   it as a terrorist attack. Following the reception where Senator Sessions discussed “Immigration in the National Interest,” this writer, along with Darby and Price, joined other Breitbart journalists in attending the CIS immigration briefing held at the National Press Club in Washington, D. C. on Friday. CIS describes itself on its website as “an independent,     research organization. ” They add, “Since our founding in 1985, we have pursued a single mission  —   providing immigration policymakers, the academic community, news media, and concerned citizens with reliable information about the social, economic, environmental, security, and fiscal consequences of legal and illegal immigration into the United States. ” DaTechGuyBlog. com has been on the list of the top 150 Conservative blog sites for over a year with an Alexa Rank in the top 100, 000 worldwide and the top 21, 000 nationally. Founded by Peter Ingemi in 2008, the blog site now hosts the “Magnificent Seven Bloggers, (Marathon Pundit, Linda Szugyi, Baldilocks, Fausta, Lady Liberty 1885, Pastor George Kelly  Steve Eggleston). ” Follow Ingemi on Twitter @DaTechGuyblog. Brandon Darby is the founder and managing director of Breitbart Texas. Follow him on Twitter @brandondarby. Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas and is a member of the original Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX. Patrick Howley is a journalist for Breitbart News based in the Washington, D. C. bureau. Follow him on Twitter@PatrickHowleyDC. Lana Shadwick is a writer and legal analyst for Breitbart Texas. She has served as a prosecutor and associate judge in Texas. Follow her on Twitter @LanaShadwick2.