METAIRIE, Louisiana  —   An illegal immigrant accused of raping a teenage girl in the suburb of New Orleans known as Metairie, is now facing deportation after Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) issued a detainer to local authorities for the man. [Luis   27   was first referred to by the Times Picayune as “Metairie man,” despite his illegal status, after being arrested by the Kenner Police Department for allegedly luring a    girl with marijuana and then proceeding to brutally rape her.  Gonzales shared marijuana with the teenager in a parking lot in the region, then he made advances onto the girl and eventually held her down and raped her, according to police. The teen told police she tried to turn Gonzales away, but he continued exploiting her anyway. She said he later dropped her off at her home and demanded she not tell anyone of the incident. That didn’t keep the teenager from telling her sister at the time. The girl’s mother was not made aware of the incident until months later and that’s when she alerted authorities. Gonzales reportedly told police he never raped the girl, but following his arrest, a 50   woman told police she experienced a sexual assault with the illegal immigrant as well. The woman said Gonzales grabbed her hand and put it on the crotch of his pants in the summer of last year. Like the rape, he has denied the incident. ICE officials told Breitbart Texas they had requested that local law enforcement notify them before releasing the illegal immigrant. “ICE is focused on smart, effective immigration enforcement that prioritizes the removal of criminal aliens and other individuals who pose a threat to national security, public safety and border security,” a spokesman for ICE told Breitbart Texas. “Aliens convicted of crimes involving violence are among ICE’s highest priority for removal from the country. ” As of days ago, Gonzales was still being held in the Jefferson Parish Detention Center. John Binder is a contributor for Breitbart Texas. Follow him on Twitter at @JxhnBinder. Tags: