Rosie O’Donnell resumed her   feud with Donald Trump this weekend on ABC’s Match Game after the rebooted game show featured a question about the presumptive GOP presidential nominee. [O’Donnell, actors Michael Ian Black, J. B. Smoove and Tituss Burgess and actresses Debra Messing and Sutton Foster were all asked by Match Game host Alec Baldwin: “Donald Trump has created a new Olympic event that he knows he can win. It’s a contest to see who can [BLANK] the most times in 60 seconds. ”  O’Donnell used the opportunity to sound off on her favorite target: “You know my feelings of that orange slug,” she told Baldwin, drawing laughter and applause from the audience.  Burgess, O’Donnell and Black all answered “Lie. ” “As the only person who is firmly on the Trump train here on this panel  …     I’m lying, like he is. I’m lying,” Black joked. Messing and Foster both answered, “Fart. ” “He’s just so stinky,” Foster added. O’Donnell has ramped up her attacks on Trump in recent months. In May, the    comedian predicted that Trump “will never be president” and said his “mouth looks like an anus. ” Later that month, O’Donnell went on a   tirade against the presumptive GOP nominee while serving as the opening act at a Boy George concert in New York. She referred to Trump alternatively as an “orange piece of sh*t” and as a “sh*tstain with a tinge of orange. ” O’Donnell told the audience that her therapist had advised her not to focus so much of her energy on Trump, to which she replied: “I would rather give birth to a flaming iguana while taking a sh*t. I hate him. I hate him. ” The two have feuded off and on since 2006, when O’Donnell questioned Trump for not stripping the crown of   USA Tara Conner over her reported drug use. Trump fired back then by calling her a “loser. ” O’Donnell has vowed to move to Canada if Trump wins the presidency. In an interview with Fox and Friends earlier this year, Trump said that would be “a great thing for our country. ”   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum,    