Tens of thousands of young people are marching for life in Washington, D. C.[In an exclusive interview with Breitbart News, some students from The Catholic University of America (CUA) in the nation’s capital say they are marching to show millennials care about women in crisis pregnancies and their babies.  CUA student Christiana Gellert says it’s important Americans know millennials care about something more than what’s superficial. “I’m here to show that millennials care about something more than just changing our profile pictures or putting up an angry status on Facebook, to show we’re willing to brave the cold weather and the blizzard for what’s important,” she explains. Fellow student Isaac Kimmel asserts, “March for Life gives us an opportunity to win this for the cause of life. ” “It’s pretty hard to ignore 300, 000 people walking down the streets of DC and across the national mall,” he continues. “This is a cause that’s very frequently ignored by the national media, and it’s a difficult cause because it’s often very contentious. It’s important to keep it in the national consciousness. ” Kimmel says Americans need to be reminded that abortion has been legal in this country for over four decades. “Abortion has cost our country tens of millions of lives,” he says. “And so we’re here to remind people of how intolerable the situation is. ” CUA student Mary Castellano tells Breitbart News she is marching to give children and mothers in crisis pregnancies a voice. “Every single life is precious, every life is sacred no matter how they were conceived, no matter the circumstances of their mother’s life,” she continues. “They need to be given a voice  —   that’s why we’re all here today  —   to speak up for those who can’t speak up for themselves. ” Castellano  —   a sidewalk counselor at abortion clinics  —   says she knows very well first hand that people going into an abortion clinic often feel they have no choice. “We want to be here to offer people a choice of adoption, a choice of something more than just termination of a life,” she asserts. “People go in thinking there’s no other choice, so we are absolutely      —   110%. ”