During a radio interview on Sunday with this reporter, Bill Clinton’s rape accuser Juanita Broaddrick charged  that “deceitful” and “evil” Bill Clinton does not regret the alleged rape incident against her in 1978 and that such activities are “just part of his character. ”[Broaddrick further stated that she believes Hillary Clinton likely thought that Broaddrick had “faded into the woodwork” and would remain quiet after the Clinton campaign released ads in which Hillary insisted all women must be supported if they accuse men of sexual assault.  Speaking on “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio,” broadcast on New York’s AM 970 The Answer and Philadelphia’s NewsTalk 990 AM, Broaddrick was asked whether she believes Clinton “regrets” the alleged rape. Broaddrick replied: “No. No. I’m sorry I don’t. I think this is just part of his character and I think if he was in better health at this time I think that it still would be continuing if it hasn’t. I just think he is a very deceitful evil man. ” I asked Broaddrick whether she believes her story should “haunt Bill Clinton for the rest of his life. ” Broaddrick replied, “Oh, yes I do. And just like I said many times before it’s just something that I can never forgive him for. Him or Hillary. People say, ‘Well you are a Christian. Why can’t you forgive them?’ I can’t. I just can’t. ” Regarding Hillary and her ad about sexual assault victims, Broaddrick stated: Aaron, I had been quiet for so long. I think she thought that I had faded into the woodwork and that she could tweet that and that I wouldn’t do anything. I honestly believe she had the audacity to believe that. And it made me so angry. That’s when I sent out that tweet that gained so much attention from all the media outlets. “You have the right to be heard. You have the right to be believed. We’re with you,” Clinton said in the video ad in November, which she addressed to “every survivor of sexual assault. ” Clinton posted the ad on her Twitter account in addition to releasing the spot on YouTube.  Every survivor of sexual assault deserves to be heard, believed, and supported. https:  .   —   Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) 23 November 2015,   In response, Broaddrick sent out the following tweet: Thoroughly disgusting —  Hillary’s comments on rape. Shame on you, Hillary, shame on you!!  —   Juanita Broaddrick (@atensnut) 15 September 2015,  On Sunday, I asked Broaddrick whether she believes Hillary thinks that Broaddrick has a right to be heard and believed. Broaddrick replied: No she doesn’t think that I do or any of Bill’s other victims. I could not believe that, Aaron. When that tweet came out and someone called it to my attention I thought, “My goodness did this woman do this on her own? Without any advice from the people who advise her?” It was absolutely the most arrogant, stupid thing that she could have ever done. Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio. ” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.