HOUSTON, Texas  —   A Texas man responded to a home invasion in the community of Spring, north of Houston, when a young girl called out for help. The man pulled his gun and stopped the home invasion robbery by engaging the robber in a gunfight. [Sean Jarrett Robbins was arrested after he allegedly burst into a family’s home and held the family at gunpoint. The woman who lived in the home and her children had just returned home when the man entered the front door and asked for the woman by name, according to a statement obtained by Breitbart Texas from Precinct 4 Constable Mark Herman. Police said the man pulled a mask over his face and produced a handgun, threatening the family.  A young girl who lived in the home managed to escape after the gunman entered the home and ran to a neighbor’s house for help. The neighbor notified the constable’s office and then grabbed his gun. He went to the home where the robbery was underway and encountered the suspect. The neighbor fired shots at Robbins, the statement revealed. Robbins then fled out the back door without returning fire. In an interview with Breitbart Texas, Constable Herman said his deputies responded quickly. “We had the first unit on the scene within two minutes of the call,” Herman explained. “They quickly set up a perimeter and found the suspect walking down the street with the loot in his hands. ” The suspect was located and placed in custody after deputies reportedly found him in possession of items from the home and the handgun he allegedly used in the robbery. That handgun was reported stolen in the Houston Police Department’s database, according to the constable. Robbins did not present the firearm when approached by the deputies, Herman said. The gun was found when the suspect was searched by the arresting deputy. Robbins has been charged with Aggravated Robbery and Burglary of a Habitation. It is not likely that the neighbor will face charges Texas law allows for the use of deadly force in protection of others. Constable Herman told Breitbart Texas his investigators accounted for all of the spent rounds and the shooting appeared to all be aboveboard. Robbins was not struck by any of the shots. Court records obtained by Breitbart Texas reveal Robbins has an extensive criminal history. Those charges include a felony conviction for Assault with Bodily Injury of a Family Member in 2011, a misdemeanor conviction for Assault of a Family Member in 2010, and felony and misdemeanor convictions for drug and marijuana possession. The convicted felon will now appear before Judge Brock Thomas in the Texas 338th Criminal District Court. Robbins has not yet been charged with being a felon in possession of a firearm. This article was updated with additional information about the suspect and the shooting. Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas and is a member of the original Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX.