NEW YORK  —   A powerful video interview exclusive to Breitbart News in which Juanita Broaddrick recounted what she described as the   experience of being raped by Bill Clinton has garnered over one million views on YouTube. [As of this writing, the emotional video, released two days ago, received 1, 158, 546 views and counting.  In the video, Broaddrick, speaking to this reporter, repeatedly broke down in tears reliving the alleged rape scene. Watch the video here: In one dramatic scene, a sobbing Broaddrick was embraced and consoled by another alleged Clinton sexual assault victim, Kathleen Willey, who was present for the filming. Willey tells the crying Broaddrick: “It’s not your fault. Okay. It’s not your fault. It’s not your fault. You didn’t do anything wrong. You didn’t do anything wrong. Okay. Okay?” Broaddrick and Willey were in our nation’s capital last week to discuss how their lives were devastated by their respective experiences with the Clintons. They also emphatically warned about what a Hillary Clinton presidency could mean for women in general —  and the Clintons’ perceived enemies in particular. The   interview was filmed in the presidential suite of the Watergate Hotel. The recording is Broaddrick’s most revealing interview to date about the specifics of the alleged rapes. Here is a partial transcript of the exchange: BROADDRICK: And then as he points over my shoulder, he grabs me and turns me to him. And that was a shock. And I tried to push him away. And I only weighed about 120 pounds at that time. He was a very large man. And I kept telling him, “No. I don’t want this at all. ”   …     And he grabbed me again, very forcefully. And started biting on my top lip. And this was extremely painful. I thought he was going to bite my lip off. And that’s when he pushed me back onto the bed. KLEIN: He bit you at the top of your lip. He pushed you onto the bed. And then what happened? BROADDRICK: It’s been so long and it is just so hard to go into. I need to stop. (crying) BROADDRICK: You, know, why? Why is it still so painful? (crying) KLEIN: What is going through your mind right now? BROADDRICK: That I am afraid of him. KLEIN: You are still afraid of him? BROADDRICK: Yes. That I am still afraid. Especially if she becomes president. And I know it’s looking that way. So it’s frightening, Aaron. It’s frightening.   …     I was completely dressed. I had a skirt and a blouse. He tore the waist of my skirt. And then he ripped my pantyhose. And he raped me. It was very vicious. I was just pinned down  …     I did not know what to do. I was so frightened. I was only 35 at the time. And it was horrible. I just wanted it to be over with. So he would go away. KLEIN: He got up? BROADDRICK: No, he held me down for a long time. And then he did it again. I was so ready for him to leave me alone. When he started raping me again. And it was very brief  …     And he did get up and he straightened himself. And my mouth was bleeding and it was hurting. And he just straightens himself and goes to the door. KLEIN: With you still on the bed? BROADDRICK: Yes, crying. He straightens himself and he goes to the door. And puts on his sunglasses. And tells me to get some ice on that on my list. And goes out the door.   …     He would push down on my left clavicle and it hurt so much I thought my clavicle was gonna break. And my lip was just ballooning out four times the size that it should have been. KLEIN: While he was raping you? BROADDRICK: Yes. Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio. ” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.