Rapper Snoop Dogg kept the Democratic National Convention party going until well past 3 a. m. Friday at a   “unity” concert in Philadelphia, just after Hillary Clinton brought the main festivities to a close by accepting the party’s presidential nomination Thursday night. [Snoop performed a concert full of his greatest hits at the Electric Factory, in a show meant to bring together supporters of Clinton and her primary opponent Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, after what had been a raucous and divided convention.  But despite the party’s billing, the rapper never mentioned Sanders’s name, according to Variety. “I just want to make sure I’m in the right house tonight,” Snoop said, according to the outlet. “Does anybody want to get f*cked up with Snoop Dogg tonight? The Democrats know how to party like a motherf*cker. ” “If you’re ready to make Hillary Clinton our next president, make some motherf*cking noise,” the    rapper added. The audience at the concert, many of them still in their convention attire, featured a mix of celebrities, Democratic donors, lobbyists and journalists. Rep. Steve Cohen ( ) Clinton surrogate David Brock and Weeds star   Parker were just a few of the   guests in attendance, according to the Daily Beast. Snoop dedicated a couple of songs to Clinton, and also made sure to diss her chief opponent, Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump. “F*ck Donald Trump,” the rapper said, before leading the crowd in a chant of the same phrase. Snoop Dogg begins his concert with his ”fuck Donald trump” diss. Crowd of Dems  donors chant along #DemConvention pic. twitter.   —   Asawin Suebsaeng (@swin24) July 29, 2016,  Snoop first endorsed Clinton in May of last year, in an interview with Bravo’s Andy Cohen. “You know, I like to be politically correct, but sometimes I’m politically incorrect. But I’ll say that I would love to see a woman in office because I feel like we’re at that stage in life to where we need a perspective other than the male’s train of thought,” the rapper told Cohen on his television show, Watch What Happens Live. “And just to have a woman speaking from a global perspective as far as representing America, I’d love to see that. So I’ll be voting for Ms. Clinton,” Snoop added.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum