Kathleen Willey, one of the women who famously accused Bill Clinton of sexual assault, and who has said she faced attempts to intimidate and silence her, used a radio interview on Sunday to blast established feminists for not speaking out about Bill Clinton’s alleged sex crimes. [Willey said she found it “very frustrating” that feminists haven’t called out Hillary Clinton for ignoring the controversies over her husband’s alleged assaults against women.  Stated Willey: I don’t understand why these [feminist] women will not address this. It’s a problem. It’s Hillary Clinton’s problem. It’s Bill Clinton’s problem. It’s Chelsea Clinton’s problem.  Hillary Clinton chose to look the other way, to allow herself to be humiliated in front of the world and she enabled him to continue on with his behavior.  And it has not stopped. You know, if he has a consensual relationship with somebody and she doesn’t care and he doesn’t care, then I guess that’s none of our business. But when it crosses the line into rape and sexual harassment and sexual assault, well then that ought to be the business of the feminists. Willey was speaking on “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio,” the popular Sunday talk radio program broadcast on New York’s AM 970 The Answer, and on NewsTalk 990 AM. Klein doubles as Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. Willey told Klein that when she first went public in 1998 about Clinton’s alleged sexual assault, one of the first things she did was attempt to secure support from feminist groups and activists, only to have her overtures met with silence. When this all started happening to me, the first thing I did when I didn’t know what do, the first thing that I did was reach out to the feminists. To the Women of the World, to Patricia Ireland, to all of these women. And I got no answer. I got completely cut off.  They would not respond. And I remember thinking to myself: What is this? I mean, what is this? As much as I was in Democratic circles and working in the White House, it actually took me a while to realize that these women are not going to criticize Bill Clinton. And it’s all about abortion. It’s all about abortion. That’s all it was. And when you have   …     Nina Burleigh saying publicly that they would gladly service Bill Clinton if he kept abortion on the table, then what are the victims and what are the women who suffered like this [supposed to do]? Willey asked: “Why aren’t these women addressing this?  I mean, we’re still dealing with it. We are still dealing with rape on college campuses, rape in the military.  I mean, it’s still a big problem. Why won’t they address this?” She added: And there are more things out there that women are concerned about than abortion. When are they going to get their priorities straight? When are they going to address the things that are really addressing women today. Besides equal pay. Besides abortion. Besides the glass ceiling.