As fans across the globe mourn the loss of Prince, who died suddenly Thursday at the age of 57 at his estate in Minnesota, many are taking comfort in the music he left behind. [In addition to writing and performing dozens of hits over his   career, the iconic musician also penned countless tracks for other artists. One of those songs was written about billionaire real estate developer and current GOP frontrunner Donald Trump.  Buzzfeed reported Friday the Purple One wrote a song called “Donald Trump (Black Version),” which was performed by an RB group called The Time. Biographer Matt Thorne wrote in his 2012 book Prince: The Man and His Music that Prince wrote the song for the Time’s unreleased album Corporate World, but it was instead added to their 1990 album Pandemonium. “Prince is responsible for a third of the record including another Corporate World standout  —   ‘Donald Trump (Black Version)’ which continues the theme of a black rewrite of Wall Street,” wrote Thorne. While the song did not catch on in 1990, “Donald Trump (Black Version)” has now become a hit online. Read a sample of the lyrics: Honey, baby, you truly know it. (You truly know it.) You look good. Tryin’ your best to show it. If I were you, I would. True love and affection. These are nice (so nice) but when a money man walks in the room, girl, You look more than twice. You look once (you look twice). Can I rap to you, sugar, tonight? (chorus) Donald Trump (black version) maybe that’s what you need. A man that fulfills your every wish, your every dream. Donald Trump (black version) come on take a chance. A 1990s love affair, the real romance. Listen: Donald Tump paid tribute to Prince on Twitter Friday morning, describing the legendary recording artist and performer as “an amazing talent and a wonderful guy”: I met Prince on numerous occasions. He was an amazing talent and wonderful guy. He will be greatly missed!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 22, 2016,  Read the “Donald Trump (Black Version)” lyrics in full here.