Donald Trump weighed in on Saturday Night Live‘s repeated attacks on him on Sunday, tweeting that the “boring and unfunny”   NBC variety show should finally “retire. ”[“Watched Saturday Night Live hit job on me,” the Republican presidential candidate tweeted Sunday morning. “Time to retire the boring and unfunny show. Alec Baldwin portrayal stinks. Media rigging election!”  Watched Saturday Night Live hit job on me. Time to retire the boring and unfunny show. Alec Baldwin portrayal stinks. Media rigging election!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 16, 2016,  Saturday Night Live hired Baldwin to play Trump ahead of its 42nd season, which kicked off earlier this month with a mock sketch of the first presidential debate. Saturday night’s most recent episode poked fun at Trump’s performance during the second presidential debate.  When asked, as the candidates were in the real debate last week, whether the tenor of the campaign was setting the proper example for American children, Baldwin, as Trump, curtly replied, “No. Next!” “So you don’t care about the kids?” SNL‘s Anderson Cooper asks. “Anderson, I love kids. I love them so much I marry them,” Baldwin replied, doing his best impression of the Republican candidate. “I’ve been helping kids my whole life. In 1992, I helped a kid named Kevin McAllister find a hotel lobby. You might remember the documentary Home Alone 2: Lost in New York. ” The skit also mocked Trump for standing behind Clinton while she delivered an answer, and had him call an   audience member “Denzel. ” Trump’s tweet about SNL comes as the Republican candidate has repeatedly accused the media of colluding with the Clinton campaign to rig the election. “The media is covering up for the Clintons,” Trump charged at a rally in Greensboro, North Carolina on Friday. “The WikiLeaks documents show how the media conspires and collaborates. ” “What a rigged system, folks!” he continued. “The corrupt media is trying to do everything in their power to stop our movement. They don’t want this happening. ” Baldwin is set to play Trump for the entirety of Saturday Night Live‘s 42nd season. Watch the   of the second presidential debate above.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum