Vociferous Trump critic Glenn Beck predicted on his radio show today that Donald Trump would be the next president of the United States. [Beck’s prediction was all the more remarkable because of his vehement opposition to the New York real estate mogul who he views as a   psychopath with supporters he’s compared to Nazi Brownshirts.  Below is the rush transcript of Beck’s comments from his website: GLENN: Hello, America. I’m going to make a prediction about Donald Trump. I could say he’s going to be the nominee of the Republican Party. But I think that’s obviously a foregone conclusion. Here’s my prediction, and I stand by it: Donald Trump is going to be the next president of the United States. JEFFY: Oh. GLENN: And I don’t think there’s any way around it. I believe Donald Trump will beat Hillary Clinton. And here’s why: The  —   Hillary Clinton is such a flawed candidate. I’ve said this for a long time. My shoe would beat Hillary Clinton, right? Anything  —   a rock will beat Hillary Clinton. That’s why I said, “This is our biggest chance, our biggest chance to beat Hillary Clinton. ” And my theory was, because nobody is going to cross over to vote for the Republicans, per se. But if the Republicans would unite and they would unite around constitutional principles, we could win and restore the nation. But what’s happening is Donald Trump is a divisive figure. And a lot of people, you know, disagree with me. They think we’re the divisive ones. Fine. Whatever. Those people who are supporting Donald Trump are, most of them, who have been on the bandwagon before, are not constitutionalists, not people who actually believed in the principles of the Tea Party. Some of them were Tea Party goers, but they have been so badly beaten and disenfranchised by the G. O. P. by the  —   by the entire government, by culture, that they just want somebody to stop the madness. But that’s not the key to the success here. The key to success here is star power. And somebody from the outside that is going to shake things up. And I believe  —   after looking at the exit polls last night, I believe the number  —   and, Stu, you’ll have to look this up. I believe the number was 30 percent of Democrats that said they will cross over and vote for Donald Trump. Now, 40 percent of Republicans say they’re not happy with Donald Trump. Let’s say 20 percent actually stick by that. Let’s say 20 percent actually stick by that and say, for principles, I’m not going to do it. I’ll find another party, or I just won’t for that level on the ticket. Ten percent, probably maybe  —   maybe 20 percent will just stay home, and they’ll say, “It doesn’t matter. ” But if you can get 30 percent  —   when was the last time you ever saw a poll that said 5 percent of Democrats would vote for a Republican? Certainly not 30 percent in an exit poll that say they would cross over. That shows how weak of a candidate she is. Read the rest here. Listen to Beck’s complete podcast below: 