Two Williams College students are now facing disciplinary action after hoaxing vandalism which appeared to be Ku Klux Klan (KKK) inspired days after the 2016 Election. [The two students, whom the college has not publicly named, poured fake blood on staircases of a building and spelled out “AMKKK KILL” on the walls, according to the Williams Record.  On the day that the vandalism was discovered, campus organizations had to cancel meetings in the building as a result. Shortly thereafter, local police were notified of the vandalism and began investigating the incident, even getting the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) and Massachusetts State Police involved in the case. After investigating more than 40 persons of interest, police concluded that two students performed the act as a statement against   Donald Trump. Williams College President Adam Falk said in a statement that the two students admitted “they had committed the vandalism to bring attention to the effects of the presidential election on many within our community. ” “Their actions did much more than damage property,” Falk continued. “They harmed our entire community and caused considerable fear, among students in particular. ” “We are deeply distressed that anyone in our community would feel compelled to express themselves in such a destructive and harmful way,” Falk said. The two students are now facing disciplinary action, according to Falk. The Massachusetts hate crime hoax is one of many that has occurred since Trump’s victory against Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton. In Louisiana, a Muslim student claimed she was attacked by Trump supporters and had her hijab pulled off her head, only for police to discover that she fabricated the story, as Breitbart Texas reported. The student is now facing misdemeanor charges. In Ohio, a Bowling Green State University student faces similar charges after repeatedly misleading police investigators about a claimed   attack she suffered at the hands of Trump supporters. John Binder is a contributor for Breitbart Texas. Follow him on Twitter at @JxhnBinder.