WASHINGTON D. C. January 13, 2016  —   The Breitbart News Network (@BreitbartNews) announced today the addition of Rebecca Mansour, former speechwriter and close aide to Governor Sarah Palin, as their Senior West Coast Editor. [“Rebecca has all the qualities we search for at Breitbart: integrity, intelligence, and fighting spirit. Her indefatigable nature ensures she will be an impact player. Through her work for Governor Palin, she has been in the trenches fighting the political and cultural battles that inspired the rise of the Tea Party and still dominate our national discourse,” said Breitbart News Executive Chairman Stephen K. Bannon.  Breitbart. com is the 232nd most trafficked website in America and the 20th largest news website in the United States according to top web analytics firm Alexa. NewsWhip, a social media analytics company ranks Breitbart News at #14 in the world for total engagement on Facebook, ahead of cnn. com, washingtonpost. com and independent. co. uk. Breitbart is ranked #9 for total Facebook shares, #6 in the world for total Facebook comments, and #20 worldwide in Twitter engagement. “Having known and admired Andrew Breitbart, I’m honored to be a part of this organization dedicated to his ideals  —   particularly his belief that politics is downstream of culture. Breitbart has become the undisputed vanguard for conservatism. It’s not only dominating its competition, it’s also defining the agenda of the grassroots movement taking the permanent political class by storm,” said Mansour. Asked for comment, Governor Palin told Breitbart News, “Rebecca has been a sharp, loyal, and amazing member of my team for over six years now. Though I’m sorry to see her go   to another conservative outlet, I’m delighted she’ll be helping change the world for the better by lending her talents to Breitbart. They are so stinking fortunate to get her! Rare is an outfit like Breitbart  —   they’re most valuable in our culture and the media, fighting the good fight for the sake of this country we love. And I’ll still be bugging Rebecca at all hours  —   I won’t let her get away that far every time we encounter an issue that we know the public must be aware of, we’ve been on it, and will continue to do so. She’s the best. ” Breitbart News    Alex Marlow said, “Coming off of a record year and heading into the 2016 election, Rebecca’s experience and background as a writer, editor, and all around news junkie makes her a great fit for Breitbart News. She’ll be working very closely with me on the front page as well as in a leadership role guiding other members of our team. ” Breitbart News Network CEO and President Larry Solov added, “We’re thrilled to welcome Rebecca to our team. Those of us who have known her in her capacity as an aide for Governor Palin know what an invaluable contribution she is to any organization. ”