How do New York Times journalists use technology in their jobs and in their personal lives? Michael D. Shear, a White House correspondent for The Times, discussed the tech he’s using. As a White House reporter, you must be bombarded with news about the Trump administration. What’s your favorite tech tool for staying on top of your beat? When a president routinely makes policy pronouncements in 140 characters, there’s no more important tool than Twitter for a White House reporter. But President Trump and his aides also appear on television throughout the day, often with little notice and without being streamed on whitehouse. gov. So, I’ve recently loaded up Sling TV on all my devices (also, my family just cut the cable cord). Now, no matter where I am  —   at my desk, at a restaurant, or in a van waiting for POTUS to play a round of golf  —   I have access to cable news reports and live streams from the White House. What do you like about the setup, and what could be better about it? I like the fact that Sling TV works just about everywhere. There are apps for my iPhone 7 and my iPad Air, as well as my MacBook Pro and the Apple TVs and Rokus I have at home. The apps load quickly and even work behind the firewall at work.’ ”I do have a few gripes. For now, you can’t pause most shows on Sling TV, and there’s no recording of shows. (The company has a DVR beta in the works, but I haven’t been able to get in.) And there are often hiccups. The audio and video are often, frustratingly, out of sync, especially for MSNBC and NBC. And there are times that the channels say “unavailable” for a few seconds, or a few minutes, with no explanation. Also, because of licensing issues, I can get NBC and Fox, but not ABC or CBS.” ’As a political reporter, how do you keep messages, contacts and phone calls secure from surveillance?’ ”I’ve always been pretty careful about electronic security. I have   authentication turned on for all of my accounts  —   email, iCloud, etc. And I’m as careful as I can be to avoid being trapped by a phishing scam. I rarely click on any link from an email, and I’m pretty aggressive about sending emails that I don’t recognize to spam.” ’In the wake of the hacking episodes involving the Democratic National Committee, officials in Washington have become more careful (paranoid?) about their communications, which has affected the way reporters do business. Many of the people I communicate with now routinely ask to discuss issues with secure texting apps such as Signal or Confide. Others still use iMessage or WhatsApp. A few have said they want to have voice communications only over secure voice apps. How do you keep on top of President Trump’s Twitter? Having covered the White House since the beginning of 2009, I’m definitely having to adjust to a new rhythm. I have about a dozen Twitter accounts set to alert me to every tweet, including the @POTUS and @RealDonaldTrump accounts, as well as the president’s senior staff like @Presssec (Sean Spicer) @KellyannePolls and others. I had to adjust my Do Not Disturb settings on my iPhone so that notifications resume earlier  —   at 5:30 a. m. now. (There are overnight editors who can call me if he tweets between midnight and 5:30 a. m.) I also make extensive use of my Apple Watch to keep tabs on the president’s Twitter habit throughout the day. I generally keep the speaker on mute, but the watch’s haptic engine taps my wrist anytime he or his aides tweet. Beyond your job, what tech product are you currently obsessed with using in your daily life? My mother sent me a check for my birthday and, on a lark, I bought a Google Home. The     is in my kitchen and I’m hoping that it becomes a new tool that everyone in my family  —   including my wife and two teenagers  —   find useful. So far, I use it as a timer when I cook. I find it much easier to simply say “Hey, Google, set a timer for 30 minutes” than to use the   timer on my oven. We also have fun using Google Home for our grocery shopping list. Throughout the week, as we notice things we need at the store, any of us can say, “Hey Google, add orange juice to the shopping list. ” It’s eerily accurate, even on stranger items. The list is automatically compiled in a Google Keep note that all of us have access to. (I will admit that my    daughter is having fun putting weird items on the list to surprise me when I go to the grocery.) What could be better about it? The problem with Google Home  —   and the reason it often sits, neglected, on the counter  —   is that it just doesn’t do that much. It can’t send emails or text (yet). It can do some limited shopping, but isn’t connected (for obvious competitive reasons) to our Amazon shopping account. It can’t (yet) be used as a convenient speakerphone. The news sources that it accesses are limited (no New York Times headlines read aloud). And there is one, serious limitation that has to be fixed for Google Home to be really useful in a home with more than one person: It needs individual profiles. It has a nice feature that reads out the appointments for your day, but it links to only one calendar. That means only one of us can use the feature. The internet is flooded with fake news. What’s your advice for readers for distinguishing good information from bad information? First, read The New York Times. But more broadly, I guess my advice would be to constantly crosscheck what you see and hear on the internet. If you read a   allegation in a Facebook post or a tweet, or on a   internet site, try to see whether that allegation is also being reported by The Washington Post or Fox News. Go to the   at various news organizations. Look around on Twitter to see whether the allegation has been debunked. If it sounds like something is “too good to check,” it probably means it’s not real. But check it anyway!