Sen. Marco Rubio continued to ridicule his opponent for the presidency Donald Trump in front of a raucous rally of, according to the Rubio campaign,  7, 000 people in Georgia this afternoon. [Rubio told the crowd that Trump had been flying aboard “Hair Force One” tweeting mean things at him on Twitter.  “[It’s] amazing to me that the guy with the worst spray tan in America is attacking me for putting on makeup,” Marco Rubio shot back with a grin. “Donald Trump likes to sue people, he should sue whoever did that to his face. ” Rubio told the crowd that Trump inherited most of his wealth, dismissing his record as a successful businessman. “He is a guy that has been protected his whole life, has been privileged his whole life, has been insulated his whole life  —   nothing tough about any of that,” Rubio said. Rubio also questioned Trump’s vow to take on illegal immigration. “He’s the only one running for president that’s ever hired illegal immigrants to work for him,” he said. “Oh no wait, he’s going to protect you from immigrants taking your jobs  —   Well why is he hiring foreigners to do the jobs at his hotels that Americans are trying to get?” He warned that Trump was currently taking over the Republican party and the conservative movement because of his “con artist” tactics, and would let them down. “I make this promise to you today, I will do whatever it takes, I will campaign as long as it takes, I will stay in this race as long as it takes,” he shouted. “Donald Trump, a con artist, will never get control of this party!” Rubio called Trump’s campaign a “con job,” much like the people who got ripped off by Trump University, and previewed an upcoming attack campaign on the issue. “They’ve been calling our office   after the debate,” Rubio said. “Literally, emails, phone calls from people, we’re talking to a lot of them, you’re going to hear from them real soon. ” During the rally, one girl held a sign and screamed that she wanted Rubio to go to prom with her. Rubio pointed her out to the crowd and responded, “I don’t know, the last time I went to the prom, I had a really tack tuxedo on,” he laughed. “I don’t care!” the girl screamed back. Sign from @marcorubio fan in Georgia today  &gt pic. twitter.   —   Charlie Spiering (@charliespiering) February 27, 2016,  “When is the prom?” Rubio asked. “March 12? I think that’s after the primary, but I may come back anyway and do the prom anyway, what do you think?” The crowd roared with approval. Rubio also warned his supporters that Trump would not be suitable for the White House, comparing him to a dangerous dictator: “There is a lunatic in North Korea trying to get a nuclear weapon and a lunatic trying to get ahold of nuclear weapons in America,” he said.