Facebook’s company culture was like a religion, and Mark Zuckerberg like notorious cult leader Jim Jones, writes former employee Antonio Garcia Martinez in a new   memoir. [In an extract from Martinez’ upcoming book, published in Vanity Fair, the author recounts how Facebook employees were indoctrinated into Zuckerberg’s cult:  All the early Facebook employees have their story of the moment when they saw the light and realized that Facebook wasn’t some measly social network like MySpace but a dream of a different human experience. With all the fervor of recent converts, newly recruited followers attracted other committed, smart, and daring engineers and designers, themselves seduced by the echoes of the Zuckian vision in others. According to Martinez, the company developed its own rituals, including a “Faceversary”  —   the date an employee joined the company. At Facebook, your start date was celebrated by the company the way evangelicals celebrate the day they were baptized and found Jesus, or the way new American citizens celebrate the day they took their oath in front of the flag. This event was called (really) your Faceversary, and every colleague would rush to congratulate you on Facebook (of course) just as normal people did for one another on their birthdays. Often the company or your colleagues would order you a garish surprise bouquet for your desk, with one of those huge Mylar balloons in the shape of a 2 or whatever. When someone left Facebook (usually around when the balloons said 4 or 5) everyone would treat it as a death, as if you were leaving the current plane of existence and going to another one (though it wasn’t assumed this next plane would be better than the current one). The tombstone of your Facebook death was a photo posted on Facebook of your weathered and worn corporate ID. It was customary to include a weepy suicide    epitaph, and the post would garner hundreds of likes and comments inside a minute. Apparently this culture has payoffs. Martinez writes that Facebook employees became so dedicated to the company that their work came to mean more to them than the   sums of money they earned through doing it. This culture is what kept    kids who were making half a million a year, in a city where there was lots of fun on offer if you had the cash, tethered to a corporate campus for   days. They ate three meals a day there, sometimes slept there, and did nothing but write code, review code, or comment on new features in internal Facebook groups. On the day of the I. P. O. —  Facebook’s victory rally —  the Ads area was full of busily working engineers at eight P. M. on a Friday. All were at that point worth real money —  even   money for some —  and all were writing code on the very day their paper turned to hard cash.