Michael   Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America is constantly campaigning against select retailers in hopes of securing bans that prevent   citizens carrying guns on store premises. [Breitbart News previously reported that Moms Demand Action failed to secure such bans at five businesses —  Starbucks, Staples, Kroger, Fred Meyer, and Target —  but there are five businesses that caved to the   and asked   citizens to leave their guns at home.  Here is a list of the five businesses that ask   citizens not to carry guns for   in their stores: The Fresh Market —  On April 1 Breitbart News reported that Greensboro,   The Fresh Market changed their gun policy so as to disarm   patrons. And   reported The Fresh Market not only banned guns but actually had their former CEO work with Moms Demand to formulate a new gun policy. Panera Bread —  On September 8, 2014, Panera Bread asked   customers not to carry guns when they entered the business to eat. And USA Today reported that Panera Bread’s decision came after “months of discussions” with Moms Demand Action. Another   gun control group —  Everytown for Gun Safety —  celebrated the Panera Bread gun ban by tweeting, “Panera Bread asks customers not to bring guns into its restaurants!” On February 10, 2016, a Harford County Sheriff’s Deputy was shot and killed inside a Maryland Panera Bread by a criminal who did not care whether guns were allowed in the business. Patrons who adhered to Panera Bread’s gun free policy were defenseless to intervene. Sonic —  On May 30, 2014, Huffington Post reported that Sonic implemented a ban against   citizens carrying guns at its restaurants. Mom’s Demand Action founder Shannon Watts credited her group’s “social media campaign” with convincing Sonic to ban guns. Also on May 30 —  the very day that the gun ban was put in place —  Breitbart News reported that a Sonic in Topeka, Kansas was robbed at gunpoint by two individuals who apparently had not read the new   policy. Chili’s —  Chili’s announced their new gun policy on the same day as Sonic. The Huffington Post reported that Chili’s caved to Moms Demand Action after the gun control group pressured the chain to ban openly carried firearms in its restaurants. Upon announcing the new gun policy Chili’s appeared to indicate they may still allow concealed carry, but it is incumbent on anyone who wishes to be armed for   to check Chili’s policy before carrying concealed on their premises. Jack in the Box —   On May 9, 2015, Jack in the Box announced it would “prefer guests not bring their guns inside [the chain’s] restaurants. ” The gun ban came in response to a Moms Demand Action campaign aimed at securing an   gun ban in Jack in the Box corporate stores. Moms Demand also wanted franchises to be pressured into banning guns as well. On May 13 —  four days after the gun ban was announced —  there was a shooting in the parking lot of a Jack in the Box in Nashville, Tennessee. On May 18 KHOU. com reported a robbery in the parking lot of a Jack in the Box in Houston, Texas, where an armed man shot and robbed another man outside the restaurant. And on May 20 click2Houston. com reported that four suspects who ignored the new   policy not only robbed another Houston Jack in the Box but also the unarmed patrons inside. AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.