WARSAW  —   The Polish government will seek the extradition of a      who prosecutors say carried out   atrocities in 1944 that killed scores of civilians. The family of the man, Michael Karkoc, who entered the United States in 1949 and now lives in a nursing home in Minneapolis, says that he is innocent of the charges and that he has dementia and is not fit to stand trial. In a June 2013 investigation, The Associated Press reported that Mr. Karkoc, then 94, had commanded the   Ukrainian Self Defense Legion, which carried out mass killings in villages in eastern Poland and helped suppress the 1944 Warsaw Uprising. Mr. Karkoc did not tell the federal authorities in 1949 that he had worked for the legion and, later, for the SS Galician Division, both of which were on a list of organizations whose members were forbidden to enter the United States, The A. P. reported. In a subsequent article in November 2013, The A. P. citing files from the Ukrainian intelligence agency’s archive, reported that a private under Mr. Karkoc’s command testified in 1968 that Mr. Karkoc had ordered an assault on the village of Chlaniow as retribution for the killing of an SS major. The village was razed. In a   memoir published in 1995, Mr. Karkoc said he had helped found the Ukrainian Self Defense Legion in 1943, in collaboration with Nazi officers, to fight on behalf of Germany and against the Soviet Union. The A. P.’s articles led to investigations in Germany and Poland. German prosecutors ended their investigation in 2015, saying Mr. Karkoc was unfit to stand trial, but the Polish inquiry continued. In a telephone interview on Tuesday, Robert Janicki, an official with the Commission for the Prosecution of Crimes Against the Polish Nation, said there was “no doubt” that the man living in Minnesota was the same man “who carried out the pacification of the villages in the Lubelskie region in 1944,” referring to Chlaniow and the nearby village of Wladyslawin. More than 40 civilians were killed. Mr. Janicki referred to the man as Michael K. citing Polish privacy laws. “We have also discovered a signature of Michael K. on documents related to the unit from that time,” he said. “Our forensic experts have determined that this is a signature of the man who lives in the States. ” The commission, which is part of the country’s Institute of National Remembrance, a body that has prosecutorial powers and is tasked with investigating   and   crimes, filed a request on Monday to a court in Lublin for a temporary arrest warrant for the man. The warrant would be the first step toward requesting extradition, Mr. Janicki said. In Washington, Nicole Navas, a Justice Department spokeswoman, said that while the department took “all credible allegations of participation in World War II Nazi crimes very seriously,” it did not comment on extradition requests. The charges carry a potential term of life in prison. Mr. Janicki rejected the argument that prosecuting Mr. Karkoc would be pointless given his age and health. “First of all, age is not a factor when it comes to bringing anyone to justice,” he said. “As for the state of his health, that will be for expert witnesses to determine. ” The Simon Wiesenthal Center, a human rights organization, has criticized Poland for not doing more to track down those who committed atrocities during the Nazi era. According to the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, the Germans killed 1. 9 million   Polish civilians during the war, along with at least three million Polish Jews. Mr. Janicki acknowledged the criticisms, but said it took time to assemble evidence. “It’s incredibly difficult to gather the necessary evidence to put someone on trial today,” he said. “It requires international cooperation, and it takes years to reconcile all the efforts. But it doesn’t mean that it’s not worth pursuing. ” “Some say that it’s too late to hunt the criminals down, but I don’t think it is,” he added. “The case of Michael K. proves that. Besides, try telling it’s too late to a woman who as a girl was hiding in a field, watching her parents being executed. ” Mr. Karkoc’s son and spokesman, Andriy Karkoc, said in an interview on Tuesday in Minneapolis that his father was not guilty. “My father is an innocent    man who never did anything wrong,” Mr. Karkoc said, adding that his father was a victim of German reprisals against Ukrainian resistance fighters. At a restaurant near the Ukrainian Orthodox Church where many family weddings had taken place, Andriy Karkoc, 63, said the allegations had been deeply painful for the family, even though his father had scoffed at them. “He lived a public life here in Minnesota,” Andriy Karkoc said. “We have fought for human rights. If he was a Nazi, why would he do that?” Michael Karkoc, an ethnic Ukrainian, was born in the city of Lutsk on March 6, 1919. Claimed by Czarist Russia in the late 18th century, the area became part of Poland after World War I, was annexed by the Soviet Union in 1939 and was occupied by the Germans in 1941. Since 1945, it has been part of Ukraine. After the war, Mr. Karkoc ended up in a camp for displaced people in   Germany. His first wife died in 1948, a year before he and their two sons immigrated to the United States, where he worked as a carpenter, remarried and had four more children.