During the latest episode of The Milo Yiannopoulos Show, Breitbart Tech editor Milo Yiannopoulos sat down to talk with Canadian writer and cultural critic Alex Kazemi, where the two discussed how social justice makes people less safe and how SJW’s channel their energy in a negative way. [“Camille Paglia would’ve said telling people that they’re safe and enlarging the definitions of things like sexual assault endangers people,” said Yiannopoulos. “And it seems to be completely the done thing on the progressive side of the argument to go in for safe spaces and say that small little microagressions are massive problems. This actually leaves people less safe, right? It leaves them more vulnerable to Orlando. ”  “Of course! Of course it makes them more vulnerable because you are not above evil, you are not above intrusion, and you are not above invasion. These things cannot be prevented,” replied Kazemi. “Things will happen to you in your life out of your control. The idea of you thinking that you can control it is fucking crazy,” he explained. “You can change how you respond to it, but you cannot change what happens to you, and honestly, I’m not saying that abuse can break some people apart, but abuse can actually create a lot of transgressive brains in culture. ” “Like if we look at Madonna, when she got raped in New York, she didn’t even talk about this until I think like five years ago, she didn’t fucking lay down and die as a victim, she made erotica,” Kazemi continued. “You know what I mean? Like, why are these kids realizing ‘well, I’ve been abused and I have these things that have happened to me, as much as anyone else has, why don’t I not put it on anyone else and try and use this energy to make my life better with rage and hate that will drive me. ’” “A lot of the left are gonna find the point that you just made outrageous,” replied Yiannopoulos. “And it isn’t outrageous. You’re simply saying bad things happen, that’s a given, fact of the universe, and you can either turn yourself into a victim, you can indulge in grievance culture, and you can expect the world to repay you for a bad thing that happened to you for the next fifty years, or you can use it, you can channel it, you can turn yourself into something and let it drive you. Let it power you. ” “Of course. Yes,” Kazemi agreed. “These people make like Tori Amos and Fiona Apple not even look that bad. It’s like are you fucking kidding me  …     They’re acting out their trauma online and they’re not dealing with it in a way that’s productive, like being in talk therapy, or even just channelling their energy to somewhere, they’re putting it all out there and there’s like this public exhibitionism that kind of makes everyone, I guess, not so empathetic to the destruction of people. ” Charlie Nash is a reporter for Breitbart Tech and former editor of the Squid Magazine. You can follow him on Twitter @MrNashington or like his page at Facebook.