Scottish actor Ewan McGregor went off on Boris Johnson with a   message on Twitter Thursday, accusing the former London mayor of spearheading what he called the “ludicrous” Brexit campaign and then abandoning it by declining to run for prime minister. [Johnson, one of the leading campaigners for Brexit, said Thursday that he would not seek the UK’s top job after current Prime Minister David Cameron steps down in October.  “Having consulted colleagues and in view of the circumstances in Parliament, I have concluded that that person cannot be me,” Johnson said during a speech Thursday, according to CNN. That was enough to rile up McGregor, who, along with many celebrities in the United Kingdom, was staunchly against the United Kingdom’s historic decision to exit the European Union. @BorisJohnson You spineless c$t You lead this ludicrous campaign to leave EU. Win, and now fuc off to let someone else clear up your mess.  —   Ewan McGregor (@mcgregor_ewan) June 30, 2016,  “@BorisJohnson You spineless c$t,” the Trainspotting star wrote on Twitter Thursday. “You lead this ludicrous campaign to leave EU. Win, and now fuc off to let someone else clear up your mess. ” The message quickly racked up nearly 60, 000 retweets and more than 80, 000 “likes. ” The previous day, the    actor took on Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn with another snarky tweet. @jeremycorbyn Good for you! The turncoats in your party should be ashamed of themselves. I hope you find the support you deserve.  —   Ewan McGregor (@mcgregor_ewan) June 29, 2016,  “@jeremycorbyn Good for you! The turncoats in your party should be ashamed of themselves. I hope you find the support you deserve. ” McGregor is just one of many British celebrities who were up in arms over the United Kingdom’s vote earlier this month. Stars including Harry Potter author J. K. Rowling, comedian Ricky Gervais,   host James Corden and House actor Hugh Laurie all took to Twitter after the vote to express their disappointment with the result.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum