U. S. Border Patrol agents captured a previously deported   gang member. The member of the Mara Salvatrucha Parkview criminal street gang was captured shortly after   the U. S.[Border Patrol agents spotted the man who had just crossed the border about a mile west of the Calexico Port of Entry, information provided to Breitbart Texas revealed. Agents arrested the man at about 4 p. m. and transported him to the El Centro Border Patrol Station.  A background check revealed the man, unidentified in the Border Patrol statement, as being a member of the   connected Mara Salvatrucha Parkview street gang. He is also a convicted felon. The crimes committed by this gang member were not released. Border Patrol policy in this sector is to not release the names of previously convicted illegal aliens who   this country illegally. Officials described the man as a    Mexican national. Border Patrol agents processed the man and placed him in custody. He will be prosecuted for illegal   into the United States. “This arrest showcases the tireless efforts of the men and women of the Border Patrol.  Apprehending dangerous individuals and keeping them out of our communities allows us to live in a safer place,” El Centro Sector Acting Special Operations Supervisor Miguel Garcia said in the written statement. Officials in this sector reported that during FY 2015, ending August 31, 2015, 14, 511 apprehensions were made. Earlier this month, Breitbart California reporter Michelle Moons reported on a series of border tunnels that were discovered by Border Patrol agents working in this sector. “Cross border tunnels pose a significant risk to the safety and security of the United States,” a CBP statement obtained by Breitbart California warned. “Anything or anyone could potentially cross into the U. S. via a tunnel. ” The April 15 discovery was the third tunnel found in this sector in recent months. About that same time, Breitbart Texas reported on a previously deported child molester who was caught after a late night border crossing on April 16. The captured child molester had been deported from the U. S. only eight months earlier after spending 270 days in jail for a conviction of lewd acts with a child. Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas and is a member of the original Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX.  