A student who is an illegal immigrant has received a great deal of pushback for bragging about getting an all tuition paid free ride to the University of Texas. [She not only took to Twitter to blow her own horn about her   “nice legs” and her “13 ” “4. 5GPA” and Valedictorian status at Crockett High School, she also had to add, “oh and I’m undocumented. ”  Mayte Lara attended Crockett High School in Austin, Texas, which is named after David “Davy” Crockett. Crockett of course died during the Battle of the Alamo fighting Santa Anna’s Mexican army for independence during the Texas Revolution. The thought of an illegal immigrant having a full ride to the University, and presumably on taxpayer dollars, has Texans and others seeing red. The Daily Mail. com and other publications have noted the firestorm and recorded her original tweet: @MikeRotondo86 with 22, 000 followers tweeted at her, “#DeportationForce coming to a dorm near you. #MAGA” @maytelara29 #DeportationForce coming to a dorm near you. #MAGA pic. twitter.   —   MR (@MikeRotondo86) June 5, 2016,  Another tweeted at her to “go back to your home country and try again legally. ” @maytelara29 go back to your home country and try again legally,  —   Joseph Lyles (@CritJoe) June 8, 2016, He said what many Texans were expressing and urged “@UTAustin revoke her scholarship. ” He added, “no free rides for illegals. ” @UTAustin revoke her scholarship @maytelara29 no free rides for illegals,  —   Joseph Lyles (@CritJoe) June 8, 2016, Another expressed, “I did it legally, nobody should get a short cut. ” @maytelara29 I did it legally, nobody should get a short cut. pic. twitter.   —   Cool Arrow (@cuervo_jones) June 5, 2016, @4TheTruth2012 tweeted what many expressed, “You can add criminal to your accomplishments!” He added a screenshot from a section from AllLaw asking “Is it a Crime to Enter the U. S. Illegally?” @maytelara29 You can add criminal to your accomplishments! May be book smart but u lack commonsense pic. twitter.   —   JMB (@4TheTruth2012) June 5, 2016, @AmericanSoWoke tweeted, “tuition paid by [American flag] taxpayers. But, keep waving the Mexican flag in our faces. Stay classy, illegal. ” @maytelara29 tuition paid by taxpayers. But, keep waving the Mexican flag in our faces. Stay classy, illegal. pic. twitter.   —   American So Woke (@AmericanSoWoke) June 6, 2016, Another illegal immigrant and recent graduate was apparently empowered by Lara’s tweet. He himself tweeted that he had received “$282, 220 in awarded scholarships” and boasted, “I’m also undocumented. ” He stated he was going to be a 2020 graduate of the University of Pennsylvania. @1979amish @Nero @maytelara29 there are so many of them pic. twitter.   —   M (@Youronlymisha) June 5, 2016, Mayte Lara and Erik Vargas have apparently received so much   they have both taken down their Twitter accounts @Mayelara29 and @Eh_Wick. The “Texas Dream Act” was signed into law in 2001. Texas House Bill 1403 allows illegal immigrants who have lived in Texas for a period of time to become eligible for   tuition. The bill was signed into law by   Rick Perry. Breitbart Texas reported that Perry has reaffirmed his support for allowing illegal immigrant students to pay   tuition even though U. S. citizens from other states have to pay higher    tuition rates. He has done so despite his tough talk about border security, illegal aliens, and illegal immigration. According to the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board website, the 77th Texas Legislature granted certain   students, including undocumented students, access to   tuition rates at Texas public institutions of higher education. It also allowed them access to state financial aid. To qualify, the illegal immigrant student must have resided in Texas for three years with a parent or guardian prior to graduating or receiving a GED. The student must have graduated from a public or private high school or received a GED in Texas. The student must also sign an affidavit indicating an intent to apply for permanent resident status as soon as they are able to do so. An organization called “KeepHB1403. com” has a website that “supports tuition equality for undocumented students. ” Their goal is to gather signatures and submit resolutions to the Texas Legislature. The organization targets unions, local businesses, and community organizations for help in signing “organizational resolution( s). ” Lana Shadwick is a writer and legal analyst for Breitbart Texas. She has served as a prosecutor and associate judge in Texas. Follow her on Twitter @LanaShadwick2.