Metal band Slipknot criticized North Carolina’s   transgender “bathroom bill” in a statement released Monday, one day before the band is scheduled to perform in Charlotte. [In a statement released on its Facebook page, the band said it had “reservations” about performing in North Carolina after the passage of HB 2  —   the law passed in March which mandates that transgender individuals use public restrooms that correspond with their biological sex  —   but ultimately decided to partner with local LGBT advocacy organization Equality NC and play the concert as scheduled.  “The law halts the rights of LGBTQ people, doesn’t allow for cities to pass a living wage for the working class,” the Des   band said. “We believe that regardless of who you are, or what you believe in this   and in our own metal   that everyone should be given access to equal opportunities they need to succeed. This law flies in the face of those values. ” “We believe that regardless of who you are, or who you love, you shouldn’t have to face hatred at home or in your community,” the statement continued. “Our fans in North Carolina deserve better, so we decided not to cancel. We don’t care where you   just please flush. It’s pretty simple, really. ” The band announced it had partnered with Equality NC to encourage concert attendees to register to vote and to get involved in working to repeal the law. Slipknot is one of more than a dozen artists who have spoken out against North Carolina’s law, some of whom  —   including Bruce Springsteen, Pearl Jam, Nick Jonas, Demi Lovato and Ringo Starr  —   cancelled scheduled performances in the state. Meanwhile, other artists including Cyndi Lauper, Jimmy Buffett and the indie band Animal Collective have performed in North Carolina but have donated proceeds to groups working to repeal the law. Slipknot is currently on a North American tour with Marilyn Manson and Of Mice  Men. Some audience members at the band’s concert in Burgettstown, Pennsylvania became violent Saturday night after the event was cancelled due to severe thunderstorms.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum,  