Fiction author Brad Thor denied that he was referring to an assassination attempt on Donald Trump in his controversial recent comments on Glenn Beck’s radio program. [The Blaze reported Tuesday:  In a comment to TheBlaze, Thor, who previously called on people to pray for Trump’s safety, said he was discussing a “hypothetical America under a dictator,” reiterating that he was not referring to an “assassination” in his comments. “What happens if a president suspends the Constitution and Congress does nothing?” Thor asked. “Safeguarding the Republic against despotism is a topic of conversation that dates back to the Founders. ” Offering additional clarification about his previous comments, Thor said, “If we had to unseat a president without the backing of the Congress, we would need a patriot along the lines of George Washington to lead the country from tyranny back to liberty. ” SiriusXM has suspended Glenn Beck from his morning time slot on the cable radio giant over Thor’s statements in a Beck interview. This is what Thor said to Beck on air last week about Trump: THOR: He is a danger to America and I got to ask you a question and this is serious and this could ring down incredible heat on me because I’m about to suggest something very bad. It is a hypothetical I am going to ask as a thriller writer. With the feckless, spineless Congress we have, who will stand in the way of Donald Trump overstepping his constitutional authority as President? If Congress won’t remove him from office, what patriot will step up and do that if, if, he oversteps his mandate as president, his   authority, I should say, as president. If he oversteps that, how do we get him out of office? And I don’t think there is a legal means available. I think it will be a terrible, terrible position the American people will be in to get Trump out of office because you won’t be able to do it through Congress. BECK: I would agree with you on that and I don’t think you actually have the voices we’ve been talking about and we’ve been talking about this   for a while. I think the voices like ours go away. I don’t think we are allowed  —   especially if things, and I believe the economy is going to go to crap, even if Jesus was in office. It’s going to naturally reset. It has to. Simon  Schuster, which is publishing Thor’s latest book through its subsidiary Atria Books, did not immediately return a request for comment about Thor’s remarks and whether his latest book tour will go forward as planned this summer.