Sam Sifton emails readers of Cooking five days a week to talk about food and suggest recipes. That email also appears here. To receive it in your inbox, register here. Good morning. Here they come, the freckled and pale, the dark and brooding alike. St. Patrick’s Day is upon us in Manhattan, a SantaCon in green. If you didn’t corn your own beef for dinner tonight, you can still buy a bag of the processed variety and simmer it off, or stop at the best deli in town to buy a couple of pounds. Crisp what you have under the broiler: Irish tacos are on the menu as promised, and they’re as fine as the air in Gweedore. What I’d like to cook this weekend: red flannel hash, off instruction Mark Bittman got a few years ago from the chef Jessica Koslow, of Sqirl in Los Angeles, to use up my leftover corned beef. Put some eggs on that and you’ll be in heaven. Also: these giant sourdough pancakes studded with fruit that Tejal Rao just wrote about this week in her sweet column for The New York Times Magazine. (You do have a sourdough starter, right? We talked about this a year ago!) Wouldn’t it be nice this weekend to learn to bake a soufflé? And to roast a chicken on top of all the bread that’s gone stale since you bought it fresh before the storm on Tuesday? You could roast tofu and squash. You could make lobster mac and cheese! And you could set yourself up nicely for a week’s worth of     desk lunches by making the best roast beef for sandwiches, a vat of black bean soup and (more Jessica Koslow action!) some brown rice for a midweek rice bowl with Swiss chard and chorizo. Those are all fine weekend projects. Thousands and thousands more recipes to cook this weekend are on Cooking. (Do you dare make Florence Fabricant’s new recipe for an oyster and blue cheese pie, which uses a cool technique for cooking the oysters that she learned from the chef Fredrik Berselius of the Nordic restaurant Aska, in Brooklyn?) See what you find. Save the ones you’re interested in making to your recipe box. And then rate them when you’re finished cooking and eating. You can  —   and should!  —   leave notes on the recipes for yourself or for the public, at least if you have an interesting point to make about the process of cooking them, or successful ingredient substitutions to trumpet. And, of course, if you run into trouble with the technology or the recipes themselves, do ask for help. We’re at cookingcare@nytimes. com. Now, in case you were wondering what Irish politicians think of Beyoncé, here’s some good work from The Daily Edge. I was going to suggest that if you’re looking for a ribald thriller in the tradition of Bond, that you check out Gérard de Villiers’s “Surface to Air. ” But I can’t. It’s too racy! It’s like “007 Shades of Gray”! But do you think you could add rainbow sprinkles to this recipe, to complete the trifecta of   ingredients and techniques? Maybe! Have a great weekend. I’ll be back on Sunday.