CHARLOTTE, N. C. Sept. 23 (UPI)  —   The family of Keith Lamont Scott, the black man shot by Charlotte police this week, released a dramatic video of the incident on Friday that depicts his wife pleading with officers  —   “Don’t shoot him”  —   and shouting at her husband before the shooting starts. [The   video, broadcast first by MSNBC Friday, covers part of the confrontation on Tuesday, which officials say began when police officers searching for another man spotted Scott in a parking lot near his home carrying a handgun.   The   Police Department says officers asked Scott to drop his weapon, but he refused to comply and instead got into his vehicle and acted like he was going to leave. That’s when officer Brentley Vinson, who is also black, fatally shot him. The New York Times posted the video in its entirety Friday after receiving it from the Scott family’s lawyers. It contains strong language. Police have not released video from body cameras worn by three officers on the scene, or cruiser dashboard cameras, inciting protesters. On the video from Scott’s wife, Rakeyia Scott speaks to officers in the parking lot from a distance of about 40 yards, repeatedly saying, “Don’t shoot him” “He has no weapons” and “He didn’t do anything. ” Officers, who had their guns drawn on the    father of seven, can be heard sternly ordering Scott to “drop the gun. ” Rakeyia Scott also tells the officers her husband has suffered a traumatic brain injury and had just taken medication. She also speaks directly to her husband in the vehicle. “Keith, don’t let them break the windows. Come on out [of] the car,” she says, seconds before saying in an increasingly louder voice, “Keith, don’t do it.   …     Keith, Keith, don’t you do it!” She then shouts, “Keith! Keith! Keith! Don’t you do it!” immediately before the officers begin shooting. Moments later, sounds of gunfire are heard, and the video eventually scans over the sight of the man’s body on the ground. Now angry and hysterical, Rakeyia Scott screams at the officers. “He better not be [expletive] dead!” she shouts. Also Friday, police announced they had arrested a suspect in the death of a protester who was demonstrating against the Scott shooting. Rayquan Borum, 21, is accused of shooting Justin Carr on Wednesday night during protests in Charlotte. Carr, 26, died from his injuries Thursday. Police said they used surveillance footage to track down the gunman. The arrest came hours after hundreds of demonstrators took to the streets in Charlotte for the third consecutive night. Ignoring a midnight curfew, they called for police to release video that may shed more light on the Scott shooting. Authorities said Friday the curfew will extend into the weekend. Demonstrators briefly blocked streets but were quickly moved and were allowed to remain past the midnight to 6 a. m. curfew imposed by Charlotte Mayor Jennifer Roberts because the gathering was largely peaceful. By 2 a. m. Friday, much of the crowd had dispersed. Police said two officers were treated after being sprayed with a chemical agent by demonstrators, but there were no serious injuries. Local police were flanked by members of the National Guard carrying rifles in efforts to keep crowds calm. The protests Thursday began after Scott’s family viewed a video of his shooting. Police did not immediately show it to the general public, saying it could hinder the ongoing investigation. After watching the video, Scott’s family attorney said they could not determine if he had a weapon when he was approached by police. “After watching the videos, the family again has more questions than answers,” the attorney said. “When told by police to exit his vehicle, Mr. Scott did so in a very calm,   manner. While police did give him several commands, he did not aggressively approach them or raise his hands at members of law enforcement at any time. ” That account is disputed by police. Photos taken by witnesses at the scene of the shooting appear to show a gun on the ground after Scott was shot. Police Chief Kerr Putney told CNN the investigation has been turned over North Carolina’s State Bureau of Investigation. Immediately after the shooting, Keith Scott’s family said he was reading a book in his car when he was approached by police. Investigators said no book was found at the scene.