The saga of    former Rep. Renee Ellmers ( ) undermining Republicans to help Democrats achieve their agenda has finally come to an end thanks to voters in North Carolina’s second congressional district. [Her overwhelming loss to Rep. George Holding ( ) —  they were pitted against each other due to a   redistricting by the courts —  comes after years of undermining conservatives in key legislative and political battles on Capitol Hill.  Below, Breitbart News has compiled a list of 15 times Ellmers undermined conservatives to push forward a liberal   agenda. 1.) It all started back in March 2014 during an interview with nationally syndicated radio host Laura Ingraham when Ellmers called Ingraham “ ” and “ignorant” for standing up for American workers against Ellmers’   viewpoints. During the interview, Ellmers argued for amnesty for all illegal aliens in America and mass migration so her donor class friends could have a cheap foreign labor supply —  and accused Ingraham of using “ ” for aiming to protect American workers’ wages and job prospects by arguing for more controlled immigration levels. Ellmers devolved into defending herself using talking points written by the radical progressive   organization the National Council of La Raza —  and then when Ingraham called her out on that, Ellmers referred to herself in the third person saying: “Renee Ellmers thinks for herself. ” 2.) After that interview went viral, Ellmers spiraled into a series of desperate actions to barely win   against an overtly underfunded primary challenger in conservative radio host Frank Roche. Roche, who had raised under $30, 000, finished a few more than 6, 000 votes short of Ellmers in the primary. Former American Idol star Clay Aiken challenged her in the general election but did not succeed. Even so, to get to where she won both the primary and the general in 2014, Ellmers engaged in a series of deceptions of the voters in her district. And she had lots of help from billionaire Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s   founder, and the U. S. Chamber of Commerce. Ellmers’s lucrative allies pumped more than a million dollars into the district to flood the airwaves with the purposefully inaccurate and falsified message that she opposed amnesty. “Ellmers voted for a Balanced Budget Amendment to cut the debt and stop the wasteful spending in Washington,” Zuckerberg’s inaccurate television ads said. “She’s protecting Fort Bragg and Pope Airfield from massive defense cuts and working hard to secure the border and fix our broken immigration system once and for all. No amnesty, period. ”     for Mitt Romney and the Cato Institute’s Alex Nowrasteh —  an amnesty shill —  among others, including progressive group “America’s Voice,” all rushed to her side, as did the Chamber of Commerce.  3.) More importantly, regarding that rush from the   lobbying community to Ellmers’ side, was an important detail accidentally revealed by one such   group: Ellmers asked for their help. “Rep. Ellmers’ office has asked for our help,” ImmigrationWorks USA wrote in an email to supporters activating its   activist core. The fact that she would openly collude with leftists like this is not surprising but marked a new level to which establishment Republicans would go to further the   agenda against the wishes of the voters who put them in office. 4.) Still reeling before her eventual defeat of Roche in the 2014 primary, Ellmers went so far as to inaccurately claim at a local party convention in North Carolina that she supported the same position on immigration as Sens. Ted Cruz ( ) Rand Paul ( ) and Mike Lee ( ). Since she actually backed the “Gang of Eight” amnesty bill —  and colluded with   organizations, supporting the leftist position on the issue —  nothing could be further from the truth, as Breitbart News showed at the time. 5.) Later, emboldened by her   in January 2015 Ellmers led a group of Republicans to cave to the Democrats on the issue of life. It’s the first demonstrable time Ellmers was at the center of another   —  not on immigration —  and this time, she helped persuade House leadership to pull the   Unborn Child Protection Act from the House floor. The measure would have banned abortions past the fifth month of pregnancy. Ellmers said she was concerned that rape language in the bill could cost Republicans votes among women and millennials. However, she had voted to approve the same bill with the same language in 2013. 6.) A few weeks later, on January 23, 2015, conservative Princeton University Professor Robert George said the failure of House Republican leadership to pass the   Unborn Child Protection Act after Ellmers’ sabotage of the bill is nothing less than a “tragedy. ”