Perhaps the most surprising thing about the forthcoming book rocking Washington right now is the number of stunning facts liberal media outlets have already confirmed and verified are accurate.   Here, then, are 11 facts that mainstream media say are true, verified, and facts from the upcoming blockbuster, Clinton Cash: The Untold Story of How and Why Foreign Governments and Businesses Helped Make Bill and Hillary Rich.  CONFIRMED: Hillary’s Foundation Hid a $2. 35 Million Foreign Donation from the Head of the Russian Govt’s Uranium Company that Had Business Before Hillary Clinton’s State Dept. —  a Clear Violation of the Memorandum of Understanding with the Obama Administration, CONFIRMED: Bill Clinton Bagged $500, 000 for a Speech in Moscow Paid for by a   Bank, CONFIRMED: Hillary’s Brother Sits on the Board of a Mining Company that Scored an Extremely Rare “Gold Exploitation Permit” in Haiti as Hillary and Bill Clinton Disbursed Billions of U. S. Taxpayer Dollars in Haiti, CONFIRMED: Hillary’s Foundation Hid a Foreign Donation of 2 Million Shares of Stock by a Mining Executive with Business Before Hillary’s State Dept. —  a Clear Violation of the Memorandum of Understanding with the Obama Administration, CONFIRMED: Hillary’s Approval of the Russian Takeover of Uranium One Transferred 20% of All U. S. Uranium to the Russian Govt. CONFIRMED: Bill Clinton was Paid by a   Education Company Laureate While the Company Benefitted from an Increase in Funding from Hillary’s State Dept. CONFIRMED: The Clinton Foundation has Been Forced to Refile at Least 5 Years of Annual Tax Returns and May Audit Other Clinton Foundation Returns, CONFIRMED: At Least $26 Million of the Clintons’ Wealth Comes from Speaking Fees by Companies and Organizations that are Also Major Clinton Foundation Donors, CONFIRMED: Clinton Cash author, Peter Schweizer, is Currently Conducting a Deep Dive Investigative Report on Republican Presidential Candidate Jeb Bush’s Financial Dealings  CONFIRMED: Bill Clinton Delivered Numerous Speeches Paid for By Individuals and Corporations with Pending Business Before Hillary’s State Dept.  CONFIRMED: Bill Clinton Lied about Hosting a Meeting with Frank Giustra and Kazakh Nuclear Officials at Clinton’s Home in Chappaqua, New York, The Hillary Clinton campaign continues to struggle in its efforts to spin and distract from the growing pile of Clinton Cash facts mainstream media outlets have already confirmed and verified are correct.  As Politico concludes, “Hillary’s Clinton Cash dismissal is dead in the water. ” The book drops May 5th. 