Welcome to Breitbart News’s live updates of the 2016 horse race.  All times eastern.  —   Cry me a river. Failed 2012 GOP presidential nominee Mitt Romney was reportedly in tears when he told attendees of his Summit, which has been described as a “safe space” for the “Never Trump” smart set, that seeing Trump as the Republican nomination was breaking his heart. One wonders if Romney is really sad that Trump’s candidacy has resonated with working Americans more than his inflexible and robotic campaign ever did. Romney also reportedly ripped Ted Cruz and John Kasich for not taking on Trump harsh enough from the outset. But where was “tough guy” Romney when Trump was rising in the polls? He, like most of the GOP Smart Set who have never been in touch with the party’s voters, probably thought Trump’s candidacy would fade away.  —   9:45: Trump calls Warren “racist” for claiming to be a “Native American” to advance her career. Goofy Elizabeth Warren, sometimes referred to as Pocahontas, pretended to be a Native American in order to advance her career. Very racist!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 11, 2016,  9:35: Meg Whitman, who could not get voters to like her despite giving Mike Murphy gazillions to spend, reportedly “compared Trump to historical demagogues like Adolf Hitler and Benito Mussolini” at Romney’s retreat. Also at the “safe space” for the “Never Trump” smart set, Ana Navarro, the GOP sellout who spends more time attacking conservatives than Democrats to ensure, reportedly called Trump a “racist” and a “vulgarian and a pig who has made disgusting comments about women for years. ” [Why don’t these people just become Democrats and try to make them more fiscally responsible?] 8:55: Big Ben says he will not speak on behalf of Trump at the GOP convention and will stay out of politics: Just spoke with Steelers Ben Roethlisberger, who said he  is an acquaintance of Donald Trump but will stay out of the political game.  —   Ed Bouchette (@EdBouchette) June 11, 2016,  6:10: Bill Kristol, always needing the attention, is proud to be on Trump’s enemy list: Retweet if you agree it’s a privilege and honor to be on @realDonaldTrump’s enemies list. https:  .   —   Bill Kristol (@BillKristol) June 11, 2016,  6:00: Trump thanks law enforcement officers: Thank you to our amazing law enforcement officers! #AmericaFirst pic. twitter.   —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 11, 2016,  4:45: Pressure being put on George P. Bush to resign as Texas GOP “Victory Chairman” if he doesn’t support Trump: . @tompauken: If @georgepbush won’t support @realDonaldTrump, he should quit as @texasgop victory chairman pic. twitter.   —   Evan Smith (@evanasmith) June 11, 2016,  4:30: Trump says NATO is now focusing on terrorism because of his remarks. 4:25: Trump predicts he’ll win the election because Clinton wants to “abolish” the Second Amendment. Trump asserts Clinton wants to abolish 2nd amendment. ”On that issue alone, i think we win the election. I really do.”  —   Chris Potter (@CPotterPgh) June 11, 2016,  4:20: Better late than never. Jesse Jackson now formally endorses Clinton. 4:15: Trump slams the dishonest press and the “phony reporting” and says despite the press, the voters are starting to see through the media’s dishonesty. 4:10: Trump now calls Obama “incompetent” and says he “just doesn’t have it. ” 4:08: Trump says Greta Van Susteren and he helped Sgt. Andrew Tahmooressi and slams Mexico (for treating him badly) and the American government for not getting him out of the Mexican jail sooner. 4:06: Trump slams the federal government for providing illegal immigrants more welfare benefits than poor American families. 4:05: Trump reminds voters that Clinton’s presidency was a “mess” with impeachment. And predicts a similar mess with Hillary Clinton. He says NAFTA was one of the worst things that has happened to the United States, and he reminds the crowd that Bill Clinton signed NAFTA. 4:03: In Pittsburgh, Trump mentions that Tom Brady also likes him and again talks about process (Trump says people don’t care about policy. They care less about process). Careful with the Brady reference in Pittsburgh —  many Stiller fans think the Patriots knew the plays Pittsburgh was running last decade in the AFC title game. 4:02: Big Ben, the Miami (OH) graduate and Steelers quarterback who has won two Super Bowls, is reportedly for Trump: Outside of Pittsburgh, Trump says he just spoke to Ben Roethlisberger and that he’s with him ”100%”.  —   Katy Tur (@KatyTurNBC) June 11, 2016,  4:00: Clinton egging on “Never Trump” Republicans. When Trump goes off his staff’s script he insults anyone who challenges him. Judge for his heritage, senator for hers. Rs should disavow.    —   Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) June 11, 2016,  3:58: Trump says he’s going to win because he’s not going to “choke” like a dog like Romney. 3:57: Shirt says it all: Inside @realDonaldTrump rally in Pittsburgh, Navy vet Bill wears shirt that echoes sentiment of #Trump supporters pic. twitter.   —   Anthony Terrell (@AnthonyNBCNews) June 11, 2016,  3:55: Trump says he loves steel and he will not let the Chinese dump steel in the United States. 3:50: They aren’t even hiding it now. Sanders supporters plan to protest Trump’s fundraiser: Sanders supporters are planning to protest Trump’s fundraiser in Boston https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   The Hill (@thehill) June 11, 2016,  3:45: In Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Trump reminds the audience that Clinton said she wanted to put coal miners out of business.