Washington  —   In December 2005, when Congress enacted the Detainee Treatment Act, tightening restrictions against torture but barring lawsuits by Guantánamo detainees, Neil Gorsuch stood at the center of the internal debate about whether President Bush should issue a signing statement about the bill. Judge Gorsuch, whose Supreme Court confirmation hearing is set to start on Monday, was then a senior official in the Justice Department. He pushed strongly for a signing statement  —   in part, he wrote in an email, because it could make clear the Bush administration’s view that the new torture ban was “best read as essentially codifying existing interrogation policies. ” An email chain about the development of Mr. Bush’s eventual signing statement, which attracted critics because it also claimed a right to bypass the torture ban under his powers as commander in chief, was among more than 100 pages of emails and documents from Judge Gorsuch’s   tenure at the Justice Department that the Trump administration provided to the Senate late on Friday. The executive branch had previously withheld those pages from nearly 175, 000 documents it provided to Congress because it considered them covered by a privilege for confidential internal deliberations. But it waived that privilege after Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, the top Democrat on the Senate Judiciary Committee, requested their disclosure. Previous disclosures showed that Judge Gorsuch helped to defend and advance the Bush administration’s positions related to Guantánamo detainees, military commissions and other policy disputes arising in the war on terrorism, although those policies had been set by others. That same caveat applies to the newly available documents. Still, they could provide further clues to Judge Gorsuch’s approach to defining the scope and limits of a president’s power in   matters. Disputes about the legality of   interrogation and surveillance policies arose in December 2005, and each came to involve Judge Gorsuch. First, Congress enacted the Detainee Treatment Act. Most of the attention given to the legislation focused on its creation of a new law, championed by Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, that barred officials from inflicting cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment on detainees anywhere in the world. The Bush administration, which was running a torture program for terrorism suspects in overseas C. I. A. “black site” prisons, opposed Mr. McCain’s efforts. At the same time, Judge Gorsuch was working with Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, to include an amendment cutting off Guantánamo detainees’ access to the courts, which the administration supported. Both the torture ban and the   components made it into the final bill, setting up the internal debate about whether to have Mr. Bush issue a signing statement, an official document laying out a president’s understanding of a bill as he signs it into law. Judge Gorsuch argued for a signing statement for several reasons, including that such a statement would help advance the view that the   measure applied to existing lawsuits and not just to future ones  —   a view the Supreme Court later rejected  —   and that it could set the stage for interpreting the torture ban in a limited way. Although his email did not mention it, the context was that earlier in 2005, the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel, in a   memo, had already concluded that C. I. A. interrogation tactics like waterboarding and sleep deprivation did not amount to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment. Judge Gorsuch wrote that issuing a statement “would help inoculate against the potential of having the administration criticized sometime in the future for not making sufficient changes in interrogation policy in light of the McCain portion of the amendment. ” Importantly, the email chain also shows that the most disputed part of Mr. Bush’s signing statement  —   a line that implied the president could bypass the new statute under his purported constitutional powers  —   was drafted not by Judge Gorsuch but by David Addington, the counsel to Vice President Dick Cheney. Another controversy that broke out in December 2005 stemmed from the revelation that Mr. Bush had authorized the National Security Agency to wiretap Americans’ international phone calls and emails without warrants, despite a 1978 law that required warrants. The Bush administration argued that its program was legal in part because the president had inherent power to conduct warrantless surveillance for national security. Critics responded that even if the president may do something in the absence of a legal limit, it does not necessarily follow that he can still do it after a law forbids it. In March 2006, Judge Gorsuch helped to draft a statement for Attorney General Alberto Gonzales at a hearing about the program. An initial draft said the president wielded “inherent” powers to conduct warrantless surveillance in wartime that “cannot be diminished or legislated away. ” But, the internal emails show, Paul Clement, the solicitor general at the time, objected that the suggestion Congress cannot encroach upon how presidents conduct surveillance was unconvincing, so Judge Gorsuch took that line out. Still, in an email distributing the revised draft, Judge Gorsuch made clear that he did not endorse either view. “I am but the scrivener looking for language that might please everybody,” he wrote, “and I have tried to accomplish that in the attached latest draft. ”