Tuesday on Sean Hannity’s nationally syndicated radio show, conservative commentator Pat Buchanan explained why he saw those Republicans not supporting GOP nominee Donald Trump for president would not achieve the party’s nomination in the future.  Buchanan pointed out that the Republicans that abandoned Barry Goldwater in 1964 never went on to rise in the party and that Richard Nixon and Ronald Reagan who did support Goldwater despite his landslide defeat, went on to become president. That could be a repeat of history according to Buchanan. “[N]ow I read how moral and great and progressive these guys did who have dumped on Trump and cut him dead,” Buchanan said. “And how they’re going to do really well and they’re the rebuilders of the party  —   I really don’t think so. I don’t think guys  —   when you’re at Gettysburg and you lost Gettysburg that the guys that weren’t there or that knocked you are the ones that whom you elevate and honor and reward. I think that all these folks that have abandoned Trump  —   I don’t think any of them will ever be nominated as president of the United States. ” Host Sean Hannity rattled off some of the names not supporting the nominee, which included Gov. John Kasich ( ) and former Gov. Jeb Bush ( ). Buchanan responded by saying “Bush Republicanism” was dead. “I think Bush Republicanism is dead,” he continued. “Its big ideas  —   what were they? You know, quote, ‘immigration reform,’ which was another word for amnesty. He had his wars in Iraq and all the you know, we’re going to make democracies out of all these countries in the Middle East and send troops to do it, or trade deals  —   they’re standing up there with Clinton signing on to NAFTA  —   Jim Baker and all the guys, Mr. Bush, Sr. All these trade deals  —   they were behind all of them. What are they going to say, we were behind these trade deals and we’re going to work with Hillary and implement them? I don’t even know if Hillary can implement TPP now because she herself realizes what Trump has been saying on these trade deals, Trump has been hearing and agreeing with. ” Follow Jeff Poor on Twitter @jeff_poor