TWIN FALLS, IDAHO  —   In a shocking and exclusive interview with Breitbart News, the father of a    girl that was allegedly raped by refugee children reveals that he watched 30 seconds of a video of the assault taken by one of the three boys charged with the crime. The father also revealed that the parents of the refugee children had urged him not to call the police when he first learned of the attack. [Additionally, new allegations against a    boy who was involved in the June 2 attack were revealed in court on Thursday afternoon, alleging the boy both anally and orally penetrated the    in addition to urinating on her, as revealed by the father in the clip below. Previously, it had only been known that a    boy had orally penetrated the girl and urinated on her.  The little girl’s parents, concerned about biased media coverage as well as their own personal safety and that of their daughter, have not been interviewed on videotape until this Thursday’s interview with Breitbart News. The father told Breitbart News how he’d gotten a call at work saying his daughter had been raped and left to see what had happened: Victim’s Father: “I finally got covered and I ran across the street, from my work to my home, and there was just a whole bunch of people outside my apartment, from all families, and I just walked into the apartment and, uh  …     our  …     they had, a phone sitting there, and they said yeah, they recorded this, you know. You need to look at this real quick, and I pushed play on that. I watched like thirty seconds. ” Stranahan: “You watched thirty seconds of what?” Victim’s Father: “I watched thirty seconds of a recording that was recorded by the refugee boys of what they  …    ” Stranahan: “So you’ve seen that video?” Victim’s Father: “Yes. ” Stranahan: “Wow, that’s  …     I  …     I hadn’t heard that. ” Victim’s Mother: “I haven’t seen it. I just can’t. ” Victim’s Father: “With her anxiety and with her condition I did not allow her to see that. I did not watch the whole thing, like I said, I watched about thirty seconds of it. There was a lot more on there that I did not see. But what I did see is  …     is horrific for a father to watch for their  …     for that thing. And so after I watched all that, I came outside, trying to keep my composure because that whole family was still outside my apartment, you know, they were trying to stop us from calling the police, pleading with us. ” Stranahan: “The refugee family was trying to stop you from calling the police?” Victim’s Father: “Yes. They were pleading with us, saying everything was okay, they did nothing wrong, you know  —   ‘No police! No police!’  —   because they did not speak  …     they speak Arabic, so they had very few words that they can actually  …    ” Stranahan: “And had they seen the video?” Victim’s Mother: “No. ” Victim’s Father: “Um, when I watched what I watched, the older brother of the boy that filmed it, or, one of the brothers to the boys, he came in behind me and watched what I watched as well. ” Stranahan: “Now how old is he? He’s an adult, or?” Victim’s Father: “He looked like he was in his late teens. ” Stranahan: “Okay. ” Victim’s Mother: “But the mother had not seen it, no. ” Victim’s Father: “Yeah, nobody else had seen it. From [the victim’s mother’s] point of view, when they brought the video, the boy that did do the recording, he came to her with this saying, you know, he did nothing wrong  —   ‘Oh, hey, I filmed it, here you go, I did nothing wrong’  —   you know, he stood outside my apartment the whole time  —   ‘I didn’t do nothing wrong, I just filmed it, nothing wrong at all’. ” Stranahan: “So you watched thirty seconds of the video and it was clear to you from the thirty seconds that you saw what was  —   thirty seconds was enough for you to see what was going on?” Victim’s Father: “Thirty seconds showed them in the laundry room, they pulled my daughter around, pushed her up against the wall, pulled her pants off, he dropped his pants, he was trying to get her from behind, you know, they only  …     no, for the boy that was trying to do it he was, you know, he was only seven to nine years old, so not a lot of  …     he didn’t know what he was really doing, as you’d expect. My daughter didn’t really, was trying to fight him a little bit, she finally got away, pulled her pants up, ran around to the side of a corner, ran inside a washing machine, hunched down, shaking in fear, while he danced around with his pants down, laughing at her, pointing at her, with all the other boys  —   you could hear them in the background, doing the same thing  —   and that’s all I watched. Because after that I was just  …     man, I don’t want to see any more of this. If I do, I’m gonna do something I shouldn’t do. ” Stranahan: “Could you tell how long the clip was? You only watched thirty seconds, but did you see how long it was?” Victim’s Father: “I didn’t check. I know it was a couple minutes. ” Stranahan: “A couple minutes. ” Victim’s Father: “I know there was a lot more that happened that was told to me by the prosecutor who had watched the video. More after that, you know, he went back to her, tried doing the front, he, um  …     oral sex with, you know, oral with her, he shoved it in her mouth  …    ” Victim’s Mother: “Which is considered a rape. ” Victim’s Father: “He peed all over her in her mouth, all over her body, her face, head  …     you know, totally defiled her, I mean  …    ” Stranahan: “Yeah. ” Victim’s Father: “So I know it had to be more than a minute or two for that to happen. And after he was all done, like I was saying, um, before the lady walked in and stopped him, the   boy had gotten —   removed his clothes, and was getting ready to  …    ” Stranahan: “Join?” Victim’s Father: “Join. And that’s when she walked in and stopped it. The case, which has largely been ignored or dismissed by the mainstream media, has created a political firestorm as   and   proponents have clashed about the assault in an election year where the candidacy of Republican nominee Donald Trump has brought immigration and refugee issues to the forefront of national political discussion. Although the establishment press has given little time to the story that does not fit the Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton’s narrative on refugees and immigration, the story has caused a stir on   media through the work of activists like Pamela Geller. Listen to Lee Stranahan’s discussion of this article on Breitbart News Daily on SiriusXM: 