An audio recording has surfaced, revealing Hillary Clinton speaking critically about young voters supporting Sen. Bernie Sanders ( ) saying they’ve bought into a “false promise. ”[“It’s a false promise,” Clinton says in the recording, referencing Sanders’ political revolution. “But I don’t think you tell idealistic people  —   particularly young people  —   that they’ve bought into a false promise. ”  The audio, which was released by the Washington Free Beacon, comes just three weeks after Clinton faced backlash for calling millions of Americans supporting Donald Trump “deplorables. ” The recording, which is from a fundraising event in February, catches the Democratic nominee calling Sanders’ supporters “children of the Great Recession” that are “living in their parents’ basement. ” “There is a strain of, on the one hand, the kind of populist, nationalist, xenophobic, discriminatory kind of approach that we hear too much of from the Republican candidates,” Clinton states. She continues: And on the other side, there’s just a deep desire to believe that we can have free college, free healthcare, that what we’ve done hasn’t gone far enough, and that we just need to, you know, go as far as, you know, Scandinavia, whatever that means, and half the people don’t know what that means, but it’s something that they deeply feel. “Some are new to politics completely. They’re children of the Great Recession. And they are living in their parents’ basement,” Clinton adds. “They feel they got their education and the jobs that are available to them are not at all what they envisioned for themselves. And they don’t see much of a future. ” She continues, “If you’re feeling like you’re consigned to, you know, being a barista, or you know, some other job that doesn’t pay a lot, and doesn’t have some other ladder of opportunity attached to it, then the idea that maybe, just maybe, you could be part of a political revolution is pretty appealing. ” The audio, which the Washington Free Beacon reports was “revealed by hackers who breached the email account of a campaign staffer,” is making headlines after Sanders hit the campaign trail in New Hampshire on Wednesday to woo millennial voters for Clinton.