Talking on Breitbart News Daily this morning, UKIP MEP Nigel Farage told host and Breitbart London    Raheem Kassam that the West needs a “democratic renaissance” in order to put the people back in power. [Mr. Farage, who was the singular most powerful voice in the Leave campaign and led Britain to a Brexit victory, remarked:  “What the West needs is a democratic renaissance where we actually put people back in charge of their own lives. ” The Leave result in the referendum for Britain to leave the European Union (EU) was seen as a victory for democracy and populist will. However, the outgoing UKIP leader remarked on the Democratic hopeful’s reaction to the referendum result: “Hillary thinks Brexit is one of the worst things that ever happened because she supports these giant attempts of government  —   effectively  —   on almost on a global scale. ” Following the Leave result, Clinton warned against America likewise embracing the nationalistic, populist tone that fueled the Leave vote in Britain. More recently she and her close advisor accused Mr. Farage of “ ” “extreme nationalism” and UKIP of being funded directly by Russian President Vladimir Putin. Mr. Farage responded to these accusations as “slanderous” commenting that: “If anyone stoops to the level of using the epithet ‘far right’ to describe people who believe in   democracy, well clearly they are the ones that have lost the plot, not me. ” “I’ve never worked with groups on the extreme right or left. At the end of the day I’m someone that has come from business into politics and my motivation was that I thought the European project was taking away from my country democracy, free speech, the ability to control out borders. “What I realise now, years on, was that what I saw going on in my country wasn’t unique to us it actually has been happening in the [entire] Western world. ” In an exclusive with Breitbart London, Dutch populist politician Geert Wilders discussed the rising ‘Patriot Spring’ noting that in Europe and America “revolutions are brewing. “They are peaceful and democratic, but they are going to send the elites home that are running our nations into the ground. ”