NEW YORK  —   Kathleen Willey, one of the women who famously accused Bill Clinton of sexual assault, slammed a televised apology by Joy Behar as “totally insincere” after “The View” host seemed to have referred to Bill Clinton’s sexual assault accusers as “tramps. ”[“I want to apologize,” Baher said earlier this month, the day after she made the controversial comments. “I never, ever intend to belittle sexual assault and the women who are victims of it ever  …     I made a joke  …     I’m sorry. ”  Speaking on “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio,” this reporter’s talk radio program broadcast on New York’s AM 970 The Answer and NewsTalk 990 AM, Willey called Baher’s response a “totally insincere apology. ” Stated Willey: I was so infuriated I couldn’t see straight. I just thought, can you get any lower than that? I mean, you’ve heard poor Juanita’s story and our stories. And look what they did to Paula. To all of us. And for her to call us tramps? And then she comes on the next day with this totally insincere apology basically covering herself and ABC. It just didn’t meet my standards whatsoever. I mean it was the worst excuse for an apology that I had ever heard in my life. She should be totally ashamed of herself. That was no apology whatsoever. Baher made the remarks in question during a discussion about Donald Trump bringing Willey and two other Clinton sexual assault accusers, Juanita Broaddrick and Paula Jones, to the second presidential debate earlier this month. Fox News reported on the televised conversation: “The View” host Sunny Hostin suggested that Hillary Clinton may have missed an opportunity to address the controversy during the second presidential debate. “This is the thing though  …     if a woman sleeps with your husband, you’re not going to necessarily embrace them  …     That’s why when he brought up these allegations, I wonder if she missed the opportunity to address it in a way that the public would understand  …    ” Hostin mused. Behar disagreed, joking that there wasn’t much Hillary Clinton could say to the women. Behar suggested the Democratic nominee could say: “ ‘I would like to apologize to those tramps that have slept with my husband.’ Maybe she could have said that. ” Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio. ” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.