SiriusXM hosts Stephen K. Bannon and David Webb announced on Breitbart News Daily that SiriusXM has suspended Glenn Beck and Webb will temporarily take over Beck’s 9AM to noon Eastern time slot on SiriusXM’s Patriot Channel 125. [SiriusXM issued the following statement:  SiriusXM encourages a diversity of discourse and opinion on our talk programs. However, comments recently made by a guest on the independently produced Glenn Beck Program, in our judgement, may be reasonably construed by some to have been advocating harm against an individual currently running for office, which we cannot and will not condone. For that reason, we have suspended The Glenn Beck Program from our Patriot channel for the coming week and are evaluating its place in our lineup going forward. SiriusXM is committed to a spirited, robust, yet responsible political conversation and believes this action reflects those values. The suspension is in response to the interview Beck did with fiction author Brad Thor last Wednesday, in which Thor likened the GOP’s presumptive nominee Donald Trump to a South   dictator who would cause an “  event” for the country if elected. Thor then declared that in such a case, Congress would not be able to remove Trump from office by “legal means” through impeachment, so Thor asked “what patriot will step up and do that” if Trump oversteps his Constitutional restraints. Beck agreed with Thor’s assessment. Here is the exchange: THOR: He is a danger to America and I got to ask you a question and this is serious and this could ring down incredible heat on me because I’m about to suggest something very bad. It is a hypothetical I am going to ask as a thriller writer. With the feckless, spineless Congress we have, who will stand in the way of Donald Trump overstepping his constitutional authority as President? If Congress won’t remove him from office, what patriot will step up and do that if, if, he oversteps his mandate as president, his   authority, I should say, as president. If he oversteps that, how do we get him out of office? And I don’t think there is a legal means available. I think it will be a terrible, terrible position the American people will be in to get Trump out of office because you won’t be able to do it through Congress. BECK: I would agree with you on that and I don’t think you actually have the voices we’ve been talking about and we’ve been talking about this   for a while. I think the voices like ours go away. I don’t think we are allowed  —   especially if things, and I believe the economy is going to go to crap, even if Jesus was in office. It’s going to naturally reset. It has to. Read the rest of the exchange here. After receiving criticism for these comments from people who believed Thor and Beck were suggesting or at least implying assassination, Beck offered a lengthy defense of his statements. You can read the full transcript of his defense here. Listen to Bannon and Webb’s announcement of the suspension below: Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6AM to 9AM Eastern.