Longtime Democratic pollster and consultant Pat Caddell spoke to Breitbart News Daily SiriusXM host Alex Marlow Tuesday about how things would potentially play out if Hillary Clinton had to be replaced on the ballot. [Caddell reflected, “In 1972   …     we went through this with the McGovern campaign with Tom Eagleton. But that was in August, and we had a different amount of time to deal with this. So the question is, can you change the ballot?”  For those who may not remember, NPR’s “The Eagleton Fiasco of 1972” sums up the events to which Caddell was referring. Much like Clinton’s pneumonia, assuming that is what it is, Eagleton had a health issue he kept secret, as well: Thirteen days later, Eagleton conceded what Democrats and journalists had been whispering about for days: that he had been hospitalized three times in the 1960s for depression and stress, and that he had undergone electric shock therapy. Despite the furor, McGovern insisted that he would not remove Eagleton from the ticket, declaring that he was behind him “1, 000 percent. ” That “1, 000 percent” lasted until July 31, when, after a national uproar and following a meeting with McGovern, Eagleton withdrew from the ticket under pressure. He was eventually replaced by Sargent Shriver, the former director of the Peace Corps and ambassador to France under Johnson and Nixon. Back to the present day, Caddell continued discussing the options if Hillary Clinton were forced to drop out, although most believe that remains unlikely. A former DNC chair initially brought up the notion of having a contingency plan in the event that Clinton does need to leave the race: Former Democratic National Committee (DNC) chairman Dan Fowler is calling on his party to prepare a backup for Hillary Clinton as she battles visible health problems. “Now is the time for all good political leaders to come to the aid of their party,” Fowler said. “I think the plan should be developed by 6 o’clock this afternoon. ” Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00 a. m. to 9:00 a. m. Eastern. LISTEN: 