Asked about Bernie Sander’s recent comments that Hillary Clinton is not qualified to be President, former UN Ambassador John Bolton told Breitbart News Daily host Stephen K. Bannon,”I think he’s right. ”[“If you look at her record as Secretary of State, other than having a huge carbon footprint by traveling all over the world on U. S. military aircraft, her accomplishments which you can actually ascribe to her are almost  . The foreign policy was Barack Obama’s, that’s for sure, but there’s nothing she’s done that really demonstrates she knows how to be Secretary of State, let alone be President,” Bolton said.  He added: “I think Sanders would have been in much better shape if he had gone on this offensive earlier. If he had said, for example, on the email, look, this is a matter of national security, there’s an FBI investigation” that would have made it clear he takes it seriously. “I think he would have gotten another ten or fifteen percent in the polls. If he loses this nomination, I blame it on Sanders, not the wonders of the Clinton campaign,” Bolton concluded. Bolton’s criticism didn’t stop there. “A lot of people, including among some conservatives, say Hillary is actually more of a hawk than Barack Obama, she would be tougher in foreign affairs than Barack Obama. That is flatly wrong. She was happily his Secretary of State for the first four years of the administration,” Bolton argued. “I’ve read her memoir, all 600 tedious pages of it. You have to strain hard to find differences in that memoir between her and Obama. And I think given what she’s had to do in her competition with Bernie Sanders just to get the Democratic Party nomination  —   some say she’s moved to the Left. I knew her in law school. She was a year ahead of me. That’s where she’s always been. She’s not moving anywhere. She’s just revealing where she’s been most of her professional life. Her foreign policy and Barack Obama’s are going to be indistinguishable, and people need to understand that, whether it’s on the immigration question really or anything else. ” Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00AM to 9:00AM EST. You can listen to the full interview with John Bolton below: 