Popularity around the motion picture adaptation of New York Times bestseller Clinton Cash has exploded in the days since its global premiere, with online viewership of the documentary surpassing the one million mark. [Indeed, views of the film on Breitbart News’ YouTube channel and the Philly Blunt pirated YouTube version have cleared a combined viewer count of more than 1. 1 million.  The virality of the Clinton Cash documentary, which was directed by M. A. Taylor and was written and produced by Danny Fleurette and Breitbart News Executive Chairman Stephen K. Bannon, was evident after it had garnered an excess of 170, 000 view in the first three hours of its worldwide online launch. While Democrats were kicking off a   coronation of Hillary Clinton as their party’s presidential nominee, the definitive film exposing the Clinton Foundation’s global corruption was sitting atop Facebook’s trending topics list. Much of the social media excitement around the film was a result of frenzied Bernie Sanders fans, who flocked to their respective Facebook accounts and urged their followers and fans to watch and share the groundbreaking movie. As Breitbart News reported, the film was pushed heavily on social media by more than 283, 000 diehard Bernie Sanders supporters, who helped catapult Clinton Cash to the top of Facebook’s trending topics list on Sunday. As evidenced by its dominance online and the overwhelming response and request, Breitbart News decided to make Clinton Cash available for free forever. Just click here to access the     film that exposes the alarming pattern of   speaking fees to Bill Clinton and donations to the Clinton Foundation from foreign contributors, which coincided with favors for those closest to the Clintons and their foundation donors while Hillary Clinton served as secretary of state. The paperback version of Clinton Cash, authored by Government Accountability Institute President and Breitbart Senior    Peter Schweizer, was released earlier this week. Next month, audiences will be treated with the   Clinton Cash graphic novel, due out August 8th. Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson.