Britain’s Prime Minister David Cameron crumbled in front of a live studio audience during a Sky News town   event on Britain’s membership of the European Union. [Answering questions from Sky’s political editor Faisal Islam, as well as the live studio audience, the Prime Minister failed to answer multiple questions including on mass migration into Britain, Turkish membership of the European Union, and jobs.  Mr. Cameron’s key arguments for staying in the European Union  —   jobs, security, and the uncertainty of leaving the EU  —   were skewered on multiple occasions and Mr. Cameron was clearly rattled by the event. Breitbart London sources have said that the Prime Minister’s team is already accusing the audience of being unfairly constituted. Highlights of the event included Mr. Cameron failing to explain how he would bring down mass migration to the tens of thousands, per his election manifesto pledge, while at the same time claiming that such an act would crush the British economy. Extraordinarily, the PM intimated that to bring down net migration there needs to be more Britons leaving Britain, rather than reducing the number of migrants coming in. But the most memorable moment of the night was when recent graduate Soraya Bouazzaoui asked about Turkey’s membership of the EU. She said: “They are under such heavy accusation by the entire Middle East for funding ISIS. How can you reassure us of staying in the EU and saying there are no risks, when there are clear risks? Especially when it comes to ISIS. ” And when Mr. Cameron failed to tackle the question, Ms. Bouazzaoui shouted at him: “You’re not answering the question. ” Mr. Cameron tried to intervene, to which she replied: “No, no, no, no, no. Let me finish now because I’ve seen you interrupt many people before hand. I’m an English literature student I know waffling when I see it, ok?” WATCH: Cameron savaged by student on #euref #inorout pic. twitter.   —   Raheem Kassam (@RaheemKassam) June 2, 2016,  The PM also ran into trouble when answering questions on jobs in the UK, with a single mother telling him that mass immigration was stopping her two children getting jobs. He floundered with nearly all audience questions, and was ridiculed for having previously intimated that World War Three would break out if Britain left the EU. Political commentators and correspondents were nearly unanimous about the fact that Mr. Cameron took a battering tonight. Tomorrow, Justice Secretary Michael Gove faces a similar grilling. Listen to the discussion of this article on Breitbart News Daily on SiriusXM: Follow Raheem Kassam on Twitter