Hillary Clinton used a CNN interview on Friday to completely embrace the Democrats’ claim that white people and cops must change to help reduce the number of   killed in tense exchanges with cops. [“I will call for white people, like myself, to put ourselves in the shoes of those    families who fear every time their children go somewhere, who have to have ‘The Talk,’ about, you now, how to really protect themselves [from police] when they’re the ones who should be expecting protection from encounters with police,” Clinton told CNN’s Wolf Blitzer.  “I’m going to be talking to white people, we’re the ones who have to start listening to the legitimate cries coming from our   fellow citizens,” she said. “We’ve got to figure out what is happening when routine traffic stops, when routine arrests, escalate into killings   …     Clearly, there seems to be a terrible disconnect between many police departments and officers and the people they have sworn to protect,” she said.  Federal policing guidelines are needed because “we have 18, 000 police departments  …     [some of which need more training to] go after systemic racism, which is a reality, and to go after systemic bias,” she said.  “We’ve got to start once again respecting and treating each other with the dignity that every person deserves,” she said. The statement echoed a tweet from Friday morning.  White Americans need to do a better job of listening when African Americans talk about the seen and unseen barriers you face every day.  —   Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) July 8, 2016,  To win in November, Clinton need a high turnout of   voters.  Neither Blitzer nor Clinton suggested that   communities have a role in reducing   deaths, which usually occur in tense engagements between a few cops and a few suspects with extensive criminal histories. In general, young   men are far more likely to commit crimes than young white men, young Asian men or young Latino men. A November 2011 report by the Justice Department showed that young   men are just 1 percent of the population, yet are responsible for a disproportionate percentage of murders in the nation.  Clinton suggested that people who disagree with her agenda are racists. “There is so much more to be done  …     we can’t be engaging in hateful rhetoric or incitement of violence, we need to be bringing people together   …     we need more love and kindness. ”