On the February 25, Breitbart News Daily show, broadcast on Sirius XM Patriot channel 125 from 6AM to 9AM EST weekdays, host and Breitbart News executive chairman Stephen K. Bannon will discuss the most important news of the day, including what Donald Trump’s big win in Nevada means for the state of 2016 presidential race as the GOP field thins out. [Republican presidential candidate Sen. Ted Cruz’s father, Rafael Cruz, will come on the show to speak about the election, the importance of evangelical voters, and his book A Time for Action: Empowering the faithful to Reclaim America.  Texas Rep. Louie Gohmert will be interviewed about the GOP’s    debate taking place in Houston, Texas. New York Times reporter Jeremy W. Peters will be interviewed about Florida Sen. Marco Rubio’s presidential campaign. He recently wrote about Rubio’s primary struggles in his article, “Marco Rubio Gets Party’s Blessing, but Not Voters’. ” Former UN Ambassador John Bolton will come on the program to speak about prosecuting Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton for using a private email server while serving as Secretary of State. GOP presidential frontrunner recently said that he would prosecute Clinton if he became president, but so far the Obama administration has avoided the issue. Bolton will also talk about the upcoming Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC). Red Jahncke of the the New York Sun will speak about how Trump will likely lock up the Republican presidential nomination if he wins the Florida primary. Breitbart News Washington editor Matthew Boyle will give the   of Megyn Kelly’s town hall event on Fox News. Breitbart Texas editor Brandon Darby will discuss the state of the race between Ted Cruz and Donald Trump in the Texas GOP primary. Breitbart’s Dr. Thomas Williams will call in from Rome to talk about Bernie Sanders calling Pope Francis a socialist like himself. Breitbart News Daily is the first live, conservative radio enterprise to air seven days a week. Sirius XM Vice President for news and talk Dave Gorab called the show “the conservative news show of record. ” Follow Breitbart News on Twitter for live updates during the show. Listeners may call into the show at:   