JAFFA, Israel  —   A Saudi man sentenced to four year’s imprisonment on terror charges surprised authorities with the copious amounts of pornography found on his personal computer alongside   instructions. [The man was reportedly convicted of openly supporting the Islamic State and trying to win young hearts and minds on behalf of the jihadist organization via his Twitter account.  Pornography is considered a transgression by IS and its followers. The court decided that, in addition to the jail term, the defendant will be banned from leaving the country for another five years. Meanwhile, Saudi Arabia is making final preparations ahead of hosting an   Islamic coalition conference next month, which is slated to coordinate a general war on terrorism.  Lacking any practical aspects when announced, the coalition is aiming to draft a set of clear guidelines. Since its launch, the coalition has suffered from numerous problems. Representatives of some of the alleged member states said they had received no information about it and had not given their consent to participation. Pakistani officials, for example, told the news media that the country was not consulted before the nation was announced as a member of the   bloc. Lebanon’s Foreign Ministry also denied knowledge of the coalition, while Lebanese Prime Minister Tammam Salam made a statement implying his country was indeed a member, Lebanon’s Daily Star reported. Upon the coalition’s inception in December, Breitbart Jerusalem reported it was difficult to find a single Palestinian Authority official willing to publicly comment on the proposed alliance. “Palestine” is listed as one of 34 Muslim members of the new   coalition, which has itself been accused of supporting Islamic extremist ideology. Nabil Abu Rudaineh, spokesman for Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas, told Breitbart Jerusalem he had no comment on the new alliance. Breitbart Jerusalem phoned PA Foreign Minister Riyad   who also said he had no comment in the issue. Breitbart Jerusalem also spoke to one of the most senior officers in the Preventive Security Force, the PA’s main security organization. The officer was not even aware of the PA joining the new coalition until receiving the call. The Preventive official phoned Breitbart Jerusalem minutes after the initial call to report that his agency has not been given any specific instructions about engaging in   activities with the Saudis. The official spoke on condition that his name be withheld for fear of being seen as publicly criticizing Saudi Arabia. “No one here knows anything about what it is,” the official added. Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio. ” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.