One of the largest newspapers along Mexico’s border with Texas is calling for a border wall with Central America, similar to the one being promoted by Republican Presidential Candidate Donald J. Trump. [The editorial board of El Mañana, one of the largest newspapers in the border state of Tamaulipas,  penned a piece called “Yes to the Border Wall   …     but in Mexico’s South. ” The piece praises the idea of border wall, not on the border with Mexico, but on the border with Central America.   “Along the Mexican border peace and quiet came to an end, Central Americans played a large influence,” El Mañana’s piece claimed.  The Mexican border newspaper provides a controversial view on the Border Wall which is one of the main topics in Trump’s campaign.  “Mexico’s southeast has two borders one with Guatemala and one with Belize, that do not provide any benefit, but on the contrary only problems are brought by these crossing points that are being used for the new invasion. The one use by Central American’s looking for a way into the United States. ” El Mañana’s editorial board wrote.  One of the issues mentioned in the editorial piece points not only to the hordes of Guatemalans, Salvadorans and Hondurans that flock to Reynosa in an effort to get to the U. S. but also to the large number of Central Americans that are left in Mexico after deportation.  Once the illegal immigrants are deported to Mexico instead of their country of origin, then Mexican officials simply leave them in Reynosa since the government lacks the funding to send them home.  According to El Mañana, illegal aliens left in the city are unable to find a place to stay since most shelters can only provide them with three days of food and bedding.  “Many of these migrants when they are unable to find an honest way of life turn to robberies, kidnappings, extortion, and in the worst cases join the ranks of organized crime,” El Mañana’s piece revealed.  Trump’s idea of a border wall is a good one but it should be on the southern border with Central America in order to stop the flow of Central Americans from entering both countries, according to El Mañana. The newspaper also calls for proper immigration checkpoints where documentation must be presented in order to gain access into Mexico.  The Mexican newspaper called out Democratic presumptive nominee Hillary Clinton for not having even mentioned the issue of border security. Ildefonso Ortiz is an award winning journalist with Breitbart Texas you can follow him on Twitter and on Facebook.