Republican National Committee (RNC) Chairman Reince Priebus fired up more than 7, 000 people before introducing Donald Trump at his campaign rally in Erie, Pennsylvania on Friday afternoon, showing the Republican Party is united behind its nominee. [“We’re so honored to be working with Donald Trump and the campaign,” he told the packed crowd inside the Erie Insurance Arena, saying the eight to nine thousand gathered to hear Trump was “unbelievable. ”  “We just had a great poll that came out,” he touted, referencing a new LA Times poll that shows Hillary Clinton and Trump neck and neck, adding that it’s a “tied election in spite of the biased media. ” “Don’t believe the garbage you read,” he added. “Donald Trump, the Republican Party, all of you  —   we’re going to put him in the White House and save this country together!” Priebus’s appearance comes as reports surfaced that dozens of Republicans are asking the RNC to stop funding Trump’s campaign and focus on down ticket candidates after recent polls suggested Clinton was catching Trump in states that are usually Republican strongholds such as Georgia and Utah. “We’re in a battle for freedom,” Priebus proclaimed about the election. “Look at the choice we’ve got  …    Hillary Clinton has a problem with lying. ” “She lied, she lied, and she lied over and over and over again,” he declared. “She lied when she said she turned over those work related emails. She lied when she said that nothing in these emails were confidential. She lied when she said that she only had one device. ” The crowd started chanting “lock her up” in response. “Lets do this, lets beat her in November, ok?” Priebus replied. “Here’s the difference  —   Donald Trump and Mike Pence will tell the truth!” Trump piggy backed off of Priebus’s criticism of Clinton and the “biased media” when he took the stage. “Our government is for sale by a crooked person and what they’re doing is they’re trying to not talk about her,” Trump commented on the recent emails revealing a relationship between Clinton’s State Department and The Clinton Foundation and how the media hasn’t covered it in detail.  “You go to CNN, as an example, story after story about Trump. ” “These people are the lowest form of life,” he added of media and pundits. Trump also knocked Clinton for admitting she   an answer regarding the FBI investigation into her email scandal. “I don’t want a president that ” Trump jabbed.