Actress Lena Dunham will deliver a speech at the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia this month alongside fellow actress America Ferrera and a host of other female celebrities who will be in town to watch Hillary Clinton accept her party’s nomination for president. [The    Girls star announced her plans to be at the Democratic National Convention on Twitter Wednesday morning.  You better believe I’ll be @DemConvention to see @HillaryClinton accept the nomination. Text DUNHAM to 47246 for all the latest updates 🇺🇸  —   Lena Dunham (@lenadunham) July 20, 2016,  Actress America Ferrera tweeted Wednesday that she and Dunham would deliver a joint speech at the convention. The Ugly Betty star has been a vocal supporter of Clinton’s candidacy, and   a private event for Clinton with Dunham in Hollywood in March. Honored 2 announce that @lenadunham  I will be speaking 2gether at @DemConvention in support of @HillaryClinton ! pic. twitter.   —   America Ferrera (@AmericaFerrera) July 20, 2016,  Other celebrities who confirmed appearances at this month’s DNC include actress Eva Longoria and singer Demi Lovato, both of whom tweeted about their plans on Wednesday. Can’t wait to support @HillaryClinton at @DemConvention next week. Text LONGORIA to 47246 to learn why this election matters to me.  —   Eva Longoria Baston (@EvaLongoria) July 20, 2016,  I’m going to @DemConvention next week in Philly!! 🇺🇸 pic. twitter.   —   Demi Lovato (@ddlovato) July 20, 2016,  Both women made appearances to support Clinton on the campaign trail earlier this year, as did Dunham, who stumped for Clinton at campaign stops in Iowa and New Hampshire in February and even took over the candidate’s Instagram account for a short time. Longoria, the star of sitcom Desperate Housewives, previously spoke at the 2012 Democratic National Convention. Other stars set to attend the DNC include actors Debra Messing, Chloe Moretz, Tony Goldwyn and Erika Alexander and NBA players Kareem   and Jason Collins, according to Fox News Latino. The DNC will also get a shot of musical star power when Lady Gaga, Lenny Kravitz and DJ Jazzy Jeff headline the “Camden Rising” concert next Thursday at the BBT Pavilion in Camden, New Jersey, just a few minutes’ drive across the Delaware River from the convention in Philadelphia. The concert is set to take place just hours before Clinton formally accepts the Democratic presidential nomination. Rapper Snoop Dogg will also host a musical event at this year’s DNC, a “unity party” intended to unite Clinton supporters with backers of her chief rival in the Democratic primary, Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders. Rock band Los Lobos will also perform at the event.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum,  