On Friday’s edition of Breitbart News Daily on SiriusXM, retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn discussed the current administration and Hillary Clinton’s refusal to speak frankly about the threat of radical Islamic terrorism. [Flynn said his new book, The Field of Fight: How We Can Win the Global War Against Radical Islam and Its Allies,   with Michael Ledeen, tackled this reluctance to address the issue of radical Islam  —   a reluctance once again on display after last weekend’s terrorist attacks in New Jersey, New York, and Minnesota.  He explained: One of the key reasons why I was let go by the military  —   and I argued this while I was in the military, I was very vocal about this  —   we must clearly define the enemies that we are going to face. And in this case, it’s radical Islam. The Administration right now, and Hillary Clinton has been a big part of it, she’s been a big part of this for a long time  —   the influence by organizations inside of our government right now at the federal level, and by some of these very strong Muslim organizations, like a CAIR or the Muslim Brotherhood, they have influenced our government to excise, to eliminate, this type of language from our training manuals, from all the things that we know to be true. And I will tell you, there’s frustration in the intelligence community, there’s frustration in the military, to be able to go after this enemy the way we know we should. One last point: when we used to say that the enemy was ‘over there’  —   like they’re over in Iraq, or Syria, or Afghanistan, or Somalia  —   that enemy right now is here in our country. We just saw three attacks that were essentially successful. Thank God nobody was killed. I mean, there were a number of people injured, I think 30, almost 40 injured, in Minnesota and New York. But there was a total of 5 attacks. And in addition to that, there have been other attacks, and what our Administration wants to do is, they want to take what is actually happening and basically redefine it as something else, to basically get the American public to sort of dumb us down. “One thing that I know is that the American public is the smartest group of people in the world, and they know better,” Flynn declared. “And I believe, I strongly believe, that on the 8th of November, the American public is going to come out in droves to vote for Donald Trump as President of the United States. ” Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00 a. m. to 9:00 a. m. Eastern. LISTEN: 