The head of an   Trump super PAC threatens on Twitter to file criminal charges against Trump supporters. [Liz Mair, founder of the   PAC Make America Awesome, is under fire after launching an ad in Utah depicting First Lady candidate Melania Trump, a model, posing nude, and encouraging people to vote for Ted Cruz. Mair’s ad was attacked by the establishment media for “ ” Melania Trump. Mair has been defending her ad, saying that she doesn’t care if Melania posed for photo shoots but that Mormons in Utah probably would.  Now Mair claims that “Trumpkins” are calling Mair’s mother on the phone. Cool  …     Trumpkins now calling my mother and leaving hateful, nasty voicemails on her phone. Very predictable.  —   Liz Mair (@LizMair) March 23, 2016,  Mair then threatened to file criminal charges against the Trump supporters. For the record, Trumpkins, if you threaten me or my family, I WILL press criminal charges. And we WILL look at IP  #s  …      —   Liz Mair (@LizMair) March 23, 2016,    …    and if there’s any coordination w Trump campaign, his SuperPAC( s) or the Trump Organization, we will file charges vs relevant personnel.  —   Liz Mair (@LizMair) March 23, 2016,  Mair, who is a dual citizen of the United States and United Kingdom, has criticized Katie Packer, who runs another   group called Our Principles PAC. Mair made it clear that her efforts are trying to swing the race to Ted Cruz. Cruz has denied any involvement in Mair’s ad. (Unlike @katiepack, we nominally played in AZ to try to drive more votes to Cruz and away from Kasich, for whom math just doesn’t work).  —   Liz Mair (@LizMair) March 23, 2016,  (Also, we’re willing to spend small amounts of money to just troll and annoy Donald Trump, which seems to be working very well this week).  —   Liz Mair (@LizMair) March 23, 2016,  Mair also had some things to say the day of Trump’s speech to AIPAC: How pissed are Trumpkins right now that their hero is talking to the Jooooooos?  —   Liz Mair (@LizMair) March 21, 2016,  Mair resigned from Scott Walker’s political action committee in March one day after she publicly joined the team after it was revealed that she disparaged the people of Iowa. “In other news, I see Iowa is once again embarrassing itself, and the GOP, this morning. Thanks, guys,” Mair tweeted and added “The sooner we remove Iowa’s frontrunning status, the better off American politics and policy will be. ” “The tone of some of my tweets concerning Iowa was at odds with that which Gov. Walker has always encouraged in political discourse,” Mair said when she resigned.