New reports show that the Obama administration is on pace to issue more than a million green cards to migrants from Muslim nations. Yet Obama could not have accomplished this without help from Washington Republicans. [Last year, House Speaker Paul Ryan’s omnibus spending bill fully funded President Obama’s expanded refugee agenda —   funding visas for nearly 300, 000 (temporary and permanent) Muslim migrants this year alone.  As Breitbart News reported at the time: In 2013, around 118, 000 migrants from   countries were permanently resettled within the United States on green cards, as well as approximately 40, 000 refugees and asylees from Muslim countries. Additionally, according to data from the State Department, in 2013 the U. S. voluntarily admitted approximately 123, 000 temporary migrants from Muslim countries as foreign students and foreign workers. On top of those autopilot admissions, which will be funded throughout all of 2016, the House is also funding the President’s plan to add another 10, 000 refugees from the Muslim country of Syria. As a result, Ryan’s   omnibus will bring in nearly 300, 000 Muslim migrants in the next 12 months alone, including roughly 170, 000 who will be permanently resettled within the country. Ryan, who leads the   migration wing of the Republican Party, recently suggested that he would sue a future President Trump if he were to use his executive authority to temporarily pause Muslim migration into the United States. Ryan has said that Trump’s proposal is “not reflective of our principles. ” Yet, as a result of   Muslim migration, the U. S. has imported several practices and values that are antithetical to Western principles. For instance, Muslim migration has put half a million U. S. girls and women at risk of suffering the barbaric and misogynistic practice of Female Genital Mutilation, according to Equality Now. Aayan Hirsi Ali has also observed that Islamic “honor violence” has become increasingly prevalent in the United States: “What most Americans just don’t get is that such horrors happen here in the United States of America —  and not just in faraway countries like Afghanistan or Somalia. ” “The numbers seem very likely to rise in the years to come,” Hirsi Ali explained. “Immigration trends over the last ten years, show a significant increase in the number of people moving to the United States from countries with   violence rates —  notably Somalia  …     as well as Iraq. ” A 2011 study by the Tahirih Justice Center titled, “Forced Marriage in Immigrant Communities in the United States” found that in the U. S. there are “as many as 3, 000 known or suspected cases of [forced marriage] identified by survey respondents in just the last two years. The fact that potentially thousands of young women and girls from immigrant communities may face forced marriages each year in the United States is alarming and demands attention,” the report wrote. Between 2001 and 2014, the United States has permanently resettled nearly   of a million migrants (674, 920) from nations that may execute gays and lesbians  —   including a quarter of a million (250, 387) who were resettled during Hillary Clinton’s tenure in the State Department. Moreover, in Afghanistan, “a growing number of Afghan children are being coerced into a life of sexual abuse,” the Washington Post has reported. “The practice of wealthy or prominent Afghans exploiting underage boys as sexual partners who are often dressed up as women to dance at gatherings is on the rise. ” The practice, known as bacha bazi, “meaning ‘boy play’ is a tradition found across Afghanistan, where boys dress as women and perform,” the Daily Mail reports. Some of the boys are as young as 10 and are “sexually abused by the men  —   passed around after the parties  …     ‘owning’ more than one boy is seen as a display of both power and wealth among some Afghan war lords. ” Between 2001 and 2013, the U. S. permanently resettled nearly 30, 000 Afghan migrants on green cards. Immigration from the Middle East, and Afghanistan in particular, is on the rise. In 2014, the number of green cards issued to Afghan migrants increased by 379 percent more than the year prior. Unlike Ryan, Trump has said that our immigration policies cannot continue to admit ideologies that preach hatred or violence towards American women, gays, Christians, and Jews: Many of the principles of Radical Islam are incompatible with Western values and institutions. Radical Islam is     and  . I refuse to allow America to become a place where gay people, Christian people, and Jewish people, are the targets of persecution and intimidation by Radical Islamic preachers of hate and violence. In seven years time, the   share of the U. S. population will reach an   high. In the 1920s, the last time the   share of the population reached a record high,   Calvin Coolidge hit the pause button for roughly fifty years, producing an era of explosive wage growth and allowing immigrants already in the country to assimilate. However, far from curbing or pausing migration, Hillary Clinton has indicated that if she is elected President, immigration into the United States will expand substantially —   including Muslim migration. Under the minimum numbers Clinton has put forth thus far, 730, 000 permanent migrants from the Muslim world would be admitted during her first term alone. This figure does not include temporary migration, such as foreign workers or foreign students. If you include temporary migrants, the total number of Muslim migrants entering the country during Clinton’s first term would be somewhere closer to 1. 4 million.