Breitbart Tech editor Milo Yiannopoulos has been banned from returning to DePaul University after he announced his return to the college was set for September on the final leg of the Dangerous Faggot tour. [In an email sent out to the college Republicans, Vice President of Student Affairs Eugene Zdziarski announced that “having consulted with Public Safety and having reviewed last Spring’s events, it is clear that it would not be possible for DePaul to provide the security that would be required for such an event. ”  Zdziarski also claimed that “Mr. Yiannopoulos’ words and behavior contained   contributed to a hostile environment and incited similar behavior from the crowd in attendance. In addition, he led an unapproved march through campus that created a potentially dangerous situation. ” Yiannopoulos first visited DePaul in May, where Black Lives Matter protestors stormed the stage, forcibly took the microphone from the interviewer, and threatened to assault Yiannopoulos before making it impossible for the event to go on. A line of security guards, which Breitbart were forced to pay for, refused to intervene as per college administrator’s orders, and Yiannopoulos eventually led his audience on a march to the president’s office to complain. Following the event, President of the University Rev. Dennis H. Holtschneider issued an apology to the college for allowing Yiannopoulos to attend, rather than apologizing to Yiannopoulos and his attendees themselves for the violent behavior of the protesters. He later resigned. DePaul University was caught by Breitbart Tech removing their Facebook user ratings and reviews section on Monday while people were distracted by Fourth of July celebrations. Prior to the section’s removal, DePaul had been rated a median of 1. 1 stars, the least possible, and over 7 thousand   ratings had been given to the college. Charlie Nash is a reporter for Breitbart Tech and former editor of the Squid Magazine. You can follow him on Twitter @MrNashington or like his page at Facebook.