TEL AVIV  —   Islamic State sympathizers and militants are celebrating an incident on Monday in which a lorry ploughed through a crowd of shoppers in a busy Christmas market in Berlin, reportedly killing nine people and injuring more than fifty. [The messages, obtained by Breitbart Jerusalem, were posted to a closed chat group that utilizes the encrypted Telegram messaging service. The chat group serves as an internal Twitter of sorts for IS jihadists and sympathizers, and it has been used in the past to issue IS communications.  The messages also celebrated the assassination on Tuesday of Russia’s ambassador to Turkey. That murder, which was caught on video and was perpetuated at a public event in front of witnesses, was reportedly carried out by an   police officer. The Telegram user who goes by the name of The Army of Osama wrote: “From the lions of Allah, we send you our hello on your soil which revolted and fought the infidels. Today the infidels are going out shouting and suffering due to the assassination of the Russian pig in Turkey and today there are those who are going out screaming in Germany. They don’t know that this is only a small part of the capacities of the lone mujahedeen and also of the collective worldwide plan to kill all of those infidels who are swimming in the blood of Muslims in Aleppo, Mosul and elsewhere. ”   The user Abu Dajana wrote: “Today we shook Russia’s power once again like we shook it when our mujahedeen in Wilayat Sinai shot down their airplane. With the help of Allah, we will shake tomorrow the United States like we shook Berlin, which will pay the same price as Paris and all the other infidel countries that are fighting the Muslims. ” The user Army of the Caliphate exclaimed: “Thanks to Allah in this last day when the things that we do are exposed in front of Allah, our lone wolves succeeded to kill the apostate Russian ambassador in the state of the infidel Erdogan, and to plow the infidels in the heart of their home in Berlin. And here in Syria, the Army of the Caliphate killed two pilots by shooting down their planes near Homs. And shortly with the help of Allah, we will shout ‘Allahu Akbar’ and we will celebrate the attacks of our brothers in all the countries of the infidels. ”   Abu Musalama warned: “Today it is Russia, Turkey and Germany and tomorrow it is France, Belgium and the head of the snake, America. Our Mujahedeen and our supporters and the lone wolves will not forget the crimes of these infidel countries and they will make them pay the price. ” And the user Talha   wrongly rejoiced over the death of the “Turkish ambassador” instead of the Russian ambassador to Turkey, Andrei Karlov.   wrote: “Thank Allah who gave the mujahedeen today this gift that is a day of victories. Today we sent to hell the Turkish ambassador and dozens of Germans were also sent to hell. We ask Allah that these lone wolves who carried out these attacks will be from the mujahedeen and the supporters of the Islamic State. ” Breitbart London reported on the truck incident in Berlin: Police in Berlin say the lorry stormed through the Christmas market at Breitscheidplatz in   killing one man and injuring several others. The lorry is said to have gone off the road and onto the market path which is purely for pedestrians. The truck then crashed after leaving the market. Police have yet to make a statement on any motives reportsBerliner Zeitung but Sky News, quoting German media, said that “first indications from investigation suggest truck crash was an attack. ” Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio. ” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.