Saturday at ABC News’ New Hampshire Republican Debate, Donald Trump and Jeb Bush got into a battle over eminent domain which ended with Trump being loudly booed by the audience, whom he said were Bush donors.  Trump said, “Let me just tell you about eminent domain. So many people have hit me with commercials and other things about eminent domain. Eminent domain is an absolute necessity for a country, for our country. Without it, you wouldn’t have roads. You wouldn’t have hospitals. You wouldn’t have anything. You wouldn’t have schools. You need eminent domain. And a lot of the big conservatives that tell me how conservative they are, they all want the Keystone pipeline. The Keystone pipeline, without eminent domain, it wouldn’t go ten feet, okay? You need it. It’s a good thing, not a bad thing. what a lot of people don’t know, oh, you’re going to take their property  —   when somebody  —   when eminent domain is used on somebody’s property, that person gets a fortune. They get at least fair market value and if they are smart, they’ll get two or three times the value of their property. But without eminent domain, you don’t have roads, highways, schools, bridges or anything. So, eminent domain, not that I love it, but eminent domain is absolutely  —   it’s a necessity for a country. ” Bush said, “The difference between eminent domain for public purpose, roads and pipelines, that’s for public purpose. What Donald Trump did was use eminent domain to try to take the property of an elderly woman on the strip in Atlantic City. That is not public purpose. That is down right wrong. Here’s the problem with that. The problem was, it was to tear down. ” Trump interjected, “Jeb wants to be a tough guy tonight. I didn’t take the property. ” Bush shot back, “You tried. ” Over the cross talk Trump said, “He wants to be a tough guy. A lot of times you’ll have  —   you’ll have  …     Bush said, “How tough it is to take property from an elderly woman?” Trump countered, “Let me talk. Quiet. A lot of times  —   a lot of times. ” As the audience booed Trump continued, “That’s all of his donors and special interests out there. So  —   it’s what it is. That’s what it is. And by the way, let me just tell you, we needed tickets, you can’t get them. You know who has the tickets  —   to the television audience? Donors, special interests, the people that are putting up the money. That’s who it is. The RNC told us. We have all donors in the audience. And the reason they’re not loving me  —   the reason they’re not  —   excuse me. The reason they’re not loving me is, I don’t want their money. I’m going to do the right thing for the American public. I don’t want their money. I don’t need their money. And I’m the only one up here that can say that. ”