Activists on Friday called for presidential nominees Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton to come to Twin Falls, Idaho, in order to address a vile rape allegedly perpetrated by Middle Eastern Muslim refugees against a      child, challenging them to “see how America is being changed by this new crisis” of Third World migrants.  As Breitbart News previously reported,    and    Muslims allegedly orally raped the the victim, and the    suspect allegedly anally raped her as well. Another alleged perpetrator recorded the attack while coaching them throughout the rape. The rapists also defiled their victim by urinating on her clothes and in her mouth. Her father viewed video of the attack: “Thirty seconds showed them in the laundry room, they pulled my daughter around, pushed her up against the wall, pulled her pants off, he dropped his pants, he was trying to get her from behind, you know, they only  …     no, for the boy that was trying to do it he was, you know, he was only seven to nine years old, so not a lot of  …     he didn’t know what he was really doing, as you’d expect. My daughter didn’t really, was trying to fight him a little bit, she finally got away, pulled her pants up, ran around to the side of a corner, ran inside a washing machine, hunched down, shaking in fear, while he danced around with his pants down, laughing at her, pointing at her, with all the other boys  —   you could hear them in the background, doing the same thing  —   and that’s all I watched. Because after that I was just  …     man, I don’t want to see any more of this. If I do, I’m gonna do something I shouldn’t do. ” “We The People” of Idaho in Twin Falls City Park told reporters it was the work of the local community that helped to bring this story to America’s attention. “Despite the best effort of city officials, it has become a national news story. Just today, a new story about the attack has gotten over 7, 000 comments and the story was discussed nationally on the radio by Sean Hannity,” a member of the group said. “Despite some good coverage, national media has displayed more concern for a political narrative than the hard truth. Stories on websites like Slate and ‘Jezebel,’ as well as the Washington Post newspaper, wrote of the attack on a small,    girl as a hoax. They have also insulted the victim’s family and the people trying to support them. ” “But this attack has gotten national attention for a reason. Because it deals with issues that are hot topics for Americans,” a member of the group stated, drawing a clear line between Americans and foreigners the mainstream media works furiously to erase. An Obama administration official has repeatedly threatened Americans discussing the crime. “[There has] been debate over how to deal with the world’s growing refugee crisis. But in their haste to make a   point, another very important issue was lost and it’s one that caused the refugees to be here in the first place,” the group continued. “Refugees have been flooding into Twin Falls as cheap labor, for the food industry, including the   industry. Local employers are given financial incentives not to hire Americans, but to hire refugees instead. The federal government has also gotten involved by providing incentives for both the companies and city officials,” they charged. “The attack that happened to this delicate, little,    girl is one of the unforeseen consequences that are changing the   of our country, causing wages to stagnate, and creating a situation that is bad for everyone,” they continued. “Worst of all, the changes that have been transforming America haven’t been debated or discussed in media. Political correctness, and   politicians and businessmen have allowed this to happen without engaging citizens in these policies. “This is why ‘We The People’ are calling on the two presidential candidates, Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump, to come to Twin Falls and see how America is being changed by this new crisis  —   which is creating American refugees. People are being treated unfairly in their own country and held to a different standard. ”