Ruben Blancovich, at age 11, knew nothing about the man who came to his family’s apartment in East Harlem on a winter day in 1980. “I remember discussing ‘The Red Badge of Courage’ with him,” Mr. Blancovich, now 48, said on Tuesday. And on a spring afternoon in 1985, there was no reason for Mark Davidson, age 18, to know the   white man waiting for him in an office on Queens Boulevard. Mr. Davidson’s lawyer had instructed him to tell the man his story. So he did. The man was Jimmy Breslin, a columnist, novelist, dramatist and biographer, about halfway through a career that began in the late 1940s. “I was just a kid,” Mr. Davidson, now 50, said on Monday. “A senior at Martin Van Buren. I didn’t know how iconic a news reporter he was at the time. ” Mr. Breslin died Sunday at 88, and had been mostly out of the public eye for more than a decade he may be as much of a mystery to a young person today as he was to Mark Davidson and Ruben Blancovich in the 1980s. From the long arc of his public work and life, what remains are deep truths that he told bluntly, and that he saw because he stepped away from the crowd. Before Mark Davidson and Ruben Blancovich were born, Mr. Breslin had written about the funeral of John F. Kennedy as seen by the man who dug the grave. Along the route of a voting rights march in 1965 led by the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Mr. Breslin found an unheated schoolhouse for black children in “a wooden building that was a church when people in Lowndes County wore Confederate uniforms,” he wrote, noting a teacher’s remark that while it did get cold sometimes, “we hardly ever get near zero. ” At the rear of the march was Albert Turner whose pay stub showed $27. 52 in taxes withheld by a government that would not let him vote. “He is   but he has a little weight on him and he grunted while he walked along,” Mr. Breslin wrote. “Sweat showed on the two creases on the back of his neck. He is just a bricklayer from Marion, in nearby Perry County, and he marches with no ceremony, and with his head down, and he was the last one in line yesterday. ” In April 1985, Mr. Davidson was arrested near his home in Ozone Park, Queens, by officers from the 106th Precinct and accused of selling two $5 bags of pot to one who was undercover. The officers demanded that he turn over the buy money. Mr. Davidson, who had 26 cents in his pocket, said he had nothing to do with it. “Davidson says when he refused to answer, the man put something on his back which gave him an electric shock,” Mr. Breslin wrote. “Davidson says he turned around and saw the tall man holding something that was black and fit in his hand and had two metal prongs about six inches long. The man then started to apply the prongs to Davidson’s body, front and back, and sent shocks through him repeatedly. ” Mr. Davidson’s lawyer, Marvyn Kornberg, had already gotten the attention of prosecutors but also contacted Mr. Breslin, then writing for The Daily News. The officers went to prison. “Jimmy Breslin was the one that broke the story, and being that it was him reporting it, it made the story more credible,” Mr. Davidson, now a schoolteacher in Atlanta, said. When he showed Mr. Breslin the spots on his stomach and his back where his skin had been fried, “you could tell he was angry,” Mr. Davidson said. The New York of the 1970s and 1980s was slumping into decay Mr. Breslin, his friend Pete Hamill, and the Times columnist Francis X. Clines were among the leading voices to insist that the people of the city should not be mistaken for its wreckage. “He went under a desk in his bedroom and brought out some of the books he has been reading,” Mr. Breslin wrote of Ruben Blancovich, then a sixth grader in Public School 206 who started in the third grade able to read some words only in Spanish and a few in English. “A paperback collection of major American poets, ‘A Christmas Carol’ by Charles Dickens, the novel ‘April Morning’ by Howard Fast, and a   book, ‘Colonial Craftsmen,’ with drawings and text by Edwin Tunis. ” Mr. Blancovich, who now lives in Albany, went on to Yale and a career in banking and entrepreneurship. He was grateful for the attention Mr. Breslin gave to a school that worked well. He “was looking at things that the rest of the news wasn’t focusing on,” Mr. Blancovich said. He still has his copy of “The Red Badge of Courage,” he said, and the clipping of Mr. Breslin’s column.