CLEVELAND, Ohio  —   Republican Party nominee for President of the United States Donald Trump is tonight expected to draw a stark dividing line between himself and his presumptive Democratic opponent Hillary Clinton by focusing on the failures of the Obama administration and highlighting the narcissism of her “I’m with her” campaign slogan. [Mr. Trump, who will formally accept his party’s nomination tonight, is expected to speak at length about the rise in crime and violence across American cities under the Obama administration. In addition, he will mention the spate of attacks against police officers, and the surge in illegal immigration and the criminality that stems from it.  Breitbart News also understands that Mr. Trump will personally name the victims of illegal immigrant violence a talking point that he has maintained throughout his campaign speeches across the country for the past year. He is expected to say: “Americans watching this address tonight have seen the recent images of violence in our streets and the chaos in our communities. Many have witnessed this violence personally, some have even been its victims. I have a message for all of you: the crime and violence that today afflicts our nation will soon come to an end. Beginning on January 20th 2017, safety will be restored  …     “America is far less safe  —   and the world is far less stable  —   than when Obama made the decision to put Hillary Clinton in charge of America’s foreign policy. I am certain it is a decision he truly regrets. Her bad instincts and her bad judgment  —   something pointed out by Bernie Sanders  —   are what caused many of the disasters unfolding today  …     “But Hillary Clinton’s legacy does not have to be America’s legacy. The problems we face now  —   poverty and violence at home, war and destruction abroad  —   will last only as long as we continue relying on the same politicians who created them  …     “As long as we are led by politicians who will not put America First, then we can be assured that other nations will not treat America with respect. This will all change when I take office  …     “Every day I wake up determined to deliver a better life for the people all across this nation that have been neglected, ignored, and abandoned.  “  Americans and businesses will experience profound relief, and taxes will be greatly simplified for everyone. America is one of the   nations in the world. “Reducing taxes will cause new companies and new jobs to come roaring back into our country. “Then we are going to deal with the issue of regulation, one of the greatest   of them all. Excessive regulation is costing our country as much as 2 trillion dollars a year, and we will end it. With these new economic policies, trillions of dollars will start flowing into our country. “This new wealth will improve the quality of life for all Americans. We will build the roads, highways, bridges, tunnels, airports, and the railways of tomorrow. “This, in turn, will create millions more jobs. “We will rescue kids from failing schools by helping their parents send them to a safe school of their choice  …     So to every parent who dreams for their child, and every child who dreams for their future, I say these words to you tonight:I’m with you, I will fight for you, and I will win for you”. Breitbart News sources also suggest that Mr. Trump will raise the issues of NAFTA and TPP trade deals, and in what appears to be inspired by the UK Independence Party’s general election campaign slogan of 2015 [Believe In Britain] he will declare, “Believe in America”. He is expected to declare open war on globalists and state that “most important difference” between him and Mrs. Clinton is that he will put “America First. Americanism, not globalism”. Follow Raheem Kassam on Twitter for more details and coverage of tonight’s speech