With questions over Hillary Clinton’s health issues growing every day, CNN has decided that the letter from the Democrat nominee’s doctor “debunks” worries over her health but at the same time the cable network insisted that a similar letter from Donald Trump’s doctor is not to be believed. [Clinton’s health has been a hot topic in Washington after a series of photos seemed to show the candidate needing help just to climb stairs and after leaked emails from as far back as 2009 revealed Hillary herself telling aides she didn’t feel well. Even liberal medical talk show host Dr. Drew Pinsky recently insisted he is “gravely concerned” about Hillary’s health.  But during his Tuesday broadcast, CNN host Don Lemon and his panel insisted that talk of Hillary’s health was little else but “conspiracy theories” and that the letter issued by her physician is all Americans need to feel assured that she is at the peak of health. Hillary Clinton’s health is fine, but what about Donald Trump’s? https:  .  https:  .   —   CNN Tonight (@CNNTonight) August 24, 2016, CNN’s chief medical correspondent, Dr. Sanjay Gupta, a long time Democrat operative who was a key health advisor to Hillary Clinton in the late 1990s and who was approached by Obama to become the next Surgeon General, has been out attacking the doctor’s letter Trump has released saying it is filled with too much “hyperbole” to be believed. Gupta has essentially indulged his own conspiracy theory that Trump’s letter may be trying to hide the GOP nominee’s medical history from the public. Yet at the same time, CNN is willing to take Hillary’s doctor letter completely at face value while claiming Trump’s is suspect. During his show, Lemon and his panel laughed and giggled at the letter from Trump’s doctor calling it “unusual,” and that the claims in it can’t be substantiated and should “open the door to people asking more questions about his health. ” They also said Trump, not Hillary, needs to “come clean with more than what he has put forth” about his health. Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston or email the author at igcolonel@hotmail. com.