The Islamic State ( ) and   have praised the Dallas attack that killed five police officers and wounded another nine last week, urging black Americans, in   messages posted online, to carry out more violence. [Authorities have said the shooter, Micah Johnson, who said he wanted to kill white people and was blown up by an explosive device attached to a robot, did not have links to any international terrorist organization.  Nevertheless, The Foreign Desk, citing private forum messages, reports that “both ISIS and Al Qaeda acknowledged the Dallas attacks and encouraged their audience to be inspired to do more. “By the grace of Allah 4 officers dead inshAllah [Allah willing],” wrote a jihadi in an   forum, referring to the attacks. “After all the mass murders the kuffars [blasphemers] have done in Muslim lands, pleasing to see them sniping each other,” he also said, adding, “We may think of using this ‘racism’ topic as an opportunity to increase the division of the kuffar through propaganda and instigate more attacks on them!” The terrorists encouraged jihadists to “make propaganda pictures and inspiring media works to instigate more black ppl [people] attacking the US govt. ” According to The Foreign Desk, the United Cyber Caliphate, a   hacking group affiliated with ISIS, also posted a   message in the wake of the Dallas massacre. The group wrote, “Are all the ‘Black’ Criminals? Or it’s just #America is the Terrorist?” Consistent with other postings, the United Cyber Caliphate published a list of Dallas police arrests, urging supporters to compare “the ratio of the ‘White vs Black  Latino. ’” Meanwhile, a second list shows Dallas police salaries with the caption “How [does] America buy The consciences of the people?” by #Money. The hacking group is known for disseminating   “kill lists” online, urging ISIS sympathizers to target people mentioned on the lists, which tend to include names and addresses. Last month, the     in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) published a guide urging all Muslims in America to carry out more “lone wolf” attacks that mirror the recent massacre in Orlando, FL, and to target “areas where the   community is generally concentrated. ” “We call upon all those oppressed by America, be it a Muslim or not, to retaliate and take back their rights by any possible means (under the umbrella of Shariah) from this oppressive state,” declared AQAP in the guide. Shariah refers the strict Islamic laws that govern the lives of Muslims. Jihadist Omar Mateen carried out the June 12 Orlando attack at a gay club that left 49 people dead and 53 others wounded. Mateen, who pledged allegiance to ISIS, was killed in a shootout with police. ISIS claimed responsibility for the assault, which has been deemed the deadliest terrorist attack since  . The Dallas massacre is considered the deadliest attack for law enforcement since the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. In January, Breitbart News reported that a video released by Somalian   affiliate Al Shabaab was designed to recruit black Americans to be terrorist jihadists, using the messaging of the leftist activist group Black Lives Matter, which has been linked to the Dallas attack.