The Nigerian military reported the finding of a shopping list on a Boko Haram terrorist which included a variety of drugs for “libido enhancement” and the treatment of sexually transmitted diseases. [Like all other wings of the Islamic State, its West Africa Province affiliate Boko Haram has made the rape and sexual slavery of underaged female captives a staple of its jihad in Nigeria, Chad, Niger, and Cameroon. The group has, for years, engaged in the mass abduction of schoolgirls to be used as sex slaves and “wives” meant for procreation and entrusted with keeping the jihadists  .  “When the Nigerian military captured their bases and training camps, they never found Qur’an or other Islamic books,” Army spokesman Col. Sani Usman told Nigeria’s Premium Times last year, after the military raided a Boko Haram stronghold littered with goods used for sexual activities. “What were mostly found were ammunition, local charms, condoms and all sort of drugs including sex enhancing ones in their enclaves. ” The Times reports that the military killed two Boko Haram jihadists en route to procuring “massive consignments” of drugs, including Viagra, “MMC Sex Men, a known libido enhancer,” “Maxman coffee enhancer for men,” “Viamax power coffee,” and “capsules that could be used to treat gonorrhea. ” The shopping list featuring these items was reportedly three pages long. The demand for sexual enhancement drugs is a common one among all branches of the Islamic State, as the jihadists abduct girls and women en masse and systematically rape them, both for their own pleasure and to breed a new generation of “caliphate cubs. ” Captured Islamic State jihadists in the Middle East have admitted to using drugs that distort their perspective on the battlefield to increase their desire to kill while the doctors forced to work for the jihadists say Viagra was among their most demanded items. In Nigeria, even before becoming an Islamic State affiliate, Boko Haram made the abduction and mass rape of Nigeria’s Christian girls and woman a pivotal part of their jihad. Those rescued say they were raped regularly, even when pregnant, and handed off as “brides” to reward loyal jihadis. In addition to their duties as sex slaves, many were forced to cook and tend to the resulting children. The youngest were forced to read the Quran and engage in Islamic indoctrination. The Nigerian government has failed to curb the Boko Haram threat, despite President Muhammadu Buhari declaring a year ago that “technically, we have won the war” against the terrorist group. The attacks have continued, most recently a Nigerian lieutenant colonel was killed and a raid killed six soldiers in Cameroon. The Nigerian military has responded to the renewed threat with a list of 55 new Boko Haram terrorists, in addition to the hundreds on the government’s   list. Officials have insisted, however, that Boko Haram’s members are now mostly foreign as a way to explain why they were so confident Boko Haram had been defeated last year, but the group continues to commit acts of violence. Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai claimed earlier this month that 60 percent of Boko Haram terrorists are not Nigerian nationals.