Musician and serial Donald   John Legend weighed in on the Colin   controversy surrounding the National Anthem on Twitter this week, calling “The   Banner” a “weak song. ”[“My vote is for America the Beautiful. Star spangled banner is a weak song anyway. And then you read this,” the Grammy winning singer tweeted, linking to an article in the Intercept titled “Colin Kaepernick Is Righter Than You Know: The National Anthem Is a Celebration of Slavery. ”  My vote is for America the Beautiful. Star spangled banner is a weak song anyway. And then you read this  …     https:  .   —   John Legend (@johnlegend) August 30, 2016,  “For those defending the current anthem, do you really truly love that song? I don’t and I’m very good at singing it. Like, one of the best,” Legend tweeted. For those defending the current anthem, do you really truly love that song?  I don’t and I’m very good at singing it. Like, one of the best,  —   John Legend (@johnlegend) August 30, 2016,  The “Love in the Future” singer’s social media missives were apparently meant in defense of San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick’s decision to remain seated during the singing of the National Anthem during an NFL preseason game Friday night. “I am not going to stand up to show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people and people of color,” Kaepernick told the press on Sunday after the game. “To me, this is bigger than football, and it would be selfish on my part to look the other way. There are bodies in the street and people getting paid leave and getting away with murder. ” The 49ers quarterback has vowed to continue to remain seated until he feels that there is “significant change” and that the American flag “represents what it’s supposed to represent. ” On Monday, the San Francisco Police Officers Association sent a letter slamming Kaepernick’s attacks on police to NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell and San Francisco 49ers owner Jed York demanding that they “denounce his foolish statements. ” When challenged by a Twitter user over his criticism of the National Anthem’s lyrics, Legend said: “I agree that his protest wasn’t about the lyrics. It’s about the value of the lives of people of color in America. ” @Lindsey50783746 I agree that his protest wasn’t about the lyrics. It’s about the value of the lives of people of color in America.  —   John Legend (@johnlegend) August 30, 2016,  Legend, an avid Black Lives Matter supporter, said, “You can love the country and what it stands for without loving a particular song. ”   Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson