The actress, model and underwear designer Elizabeth Hurley is getting behind Brexit, using her social media presence to campaign for Britain to leave the European Union (EU). [The Bedazzled and Austin Powers star began her personal Brexit push earlier this month June, when she urged her half a million followers on Twitter to register to vote. “Every vote counts #Brexit” she added on the   site.  Soon after she began retweeting messages from Vote Leave, the official campaign to leave the EU, and its leader Boris Johnson. Beautiful graphics: Beautiful sentiment #VoteLeave #Brexit pic. twitter.   —   Elizabeth Hurley (@ElizabethHurley) June 19, 2016,  The issues of immigration and the accession of new member states appear to be of particular interest to Mrs. Hurley. “Corbyn tells the truth: being in the EU means unlimited immigration. Shame Cameron kept ducking the question,” she tweeted yesterday, after the Labour leader’s blunt admission on the Andrew Marr show this Sunday. She has also retweeted supposedly “controversial” messages from the ‘Leave’ camp about Turkey. “Will @David_Cameron provide an answer today about whether he still supports Turkish membership of the EU?” she retweeted. Adding: “Gove: It is official British Government policy not to have a referendum on new countries joining” and “Gove: We were not offered a referendum when Bulgaria, Romania or 17 other states joined. Your only chance to have a say is on 23 June. ” Another tweet read: “We send £350m every week to the EU. Click here to read about how eurocrats waste your money”. Mrs. Hurley rose to prominence in the 1990s. Her debut in Hollywood came in the Wesley Snipes action drama Passenger 57 (1992). She has also featured in the Good Guy, The Young Indiana Jones Chronicles, Project Catwalk and Gossip Girl. She was also well known as the girlfriend of actor Hugh Grant, and their   appearances often made the news. After 13 years together, Mrs. Hurley and Mr. Grant announced an “amicable” split in May 2000.