Texas Governor Greg Abbott turned the Governor’s Mansion blue on Saturday night, but not the way Democrats had hoped in 2014. The Texas governor flooded his official residence with blue floodlights in support of law enforcement officers across the Lone Star State. [Governor Abbott took the action of turning the mansion blue in honor of Law Enforcement Appreciation Day (LEAD) Saturday evening. He said he wanted to show law enforcement all across the state that Texans support the work they do to keep us safe.  “We can never give thanks enough to our law enforcement officers who put their lives on the line every day to protect us,” Governor Abbott said in a statement obtained by Breitbart Texas. “Lighting the mansion in blue is a small gesture in showing the State of Texas’ appreciation for all that they do. I encourage all Texans to stand with law enforcement on this day and say ‘thank you’ for their service to our great state. ” Texas’ First Lady, Cecilia Abbott joined her husband’s support of law enforcement. “To our law enforcement who protect our communities and keep us safe, thank you for your service,” the Texas First Lady wrote on her Facebook page. The move by the governor comes following a year were officers across the nation have been gunned down simply for being cops. Just last week, Philadelphia police officer Jesse Hartnett was shot three times while sitting in his car. The shooting was an apparent execution attempt in the name of Islam, Breitbart News’ John Hayward reported. In August, Breitbart Texas reported on the execution style murder of Harris County Deputy Sheriff Deputy Darren Goforth. The Houston based deputy was shot multiple times in the back of his head and in his back as he walked, in uniform, from a convenience store to his patrol car that was parked at a gas pump. The only known motivation for the shooting at this point is Goforth was wearing a cop uniform. Many other police officers were executed across the nation during 2015. In May, three Breitbart Texas journalists were inside the Curtis Culwell Center during the attack by two Muslim terrorists at the Muhammad Art Exhibit in Garland, Texas. As the two terrorists stepped out of their car with assault rifles blazing, one police officer, armed only with his service pistol, stepped out of his patrol car and stopped the attack. Were it not for his bravery, and that of the other Garland police officers who were on the scene to protect attendees, the Garland terror attack might have resembled the San Bernardino and Paris terror attacks. Law enforcement officers made the difference. In an   published in National Review, Ted Cruz agreed. “Law enforcement forms a thin but powerful line protecting us not just from violent criminals, but from terrorists on our own soil. In the case of Garland, Texas, Islamic terrorists could have taken unknown numbers of lives if it were not for the brave traffic officer who stopped their attempted attack. ” Law enforcement agencies across the state responded to the Governor’s gesture of support. The Cedar Hill Police Department called the mansion lighting “a Texas Sized Thank You,” in a Facebook post. The Fort Worth Police Officers Association posted the photo of the illuminated mansion on its Facebook page and said, “The Governor’s Mansion in Austin, TX is illuminated blue tonight for Law Enforcement Appreciation Day. ‪#‎ThankYou. ” “I want to join Governor Abbott in expressing my most since gratitude to all law enforcement personnel,” said Harris County Tax   Mike Sullivan. “I appreciate what they do, and for the sacrifices they make. Without them, we would be a lawless society. ” Texas Supreme Court Justice Jeff Brown posted a photo of his favorite police officer, his father. Republican Party of Texas chairman, Tom Mechler, @tommechler, tweeted, “On Law Enforcement Appreciation Day, we salute those who serve!” Perhaps no one can appreciate the service and sacrifice of law enforcement officers more than the spouse of a police officer. Megan Justine, the wife of a police officer, wrote on her Facebook page: As the wife of a Police Officer I honor them every day. I pray one day all can honor the sacrifices they knowingly make every single day. As Sen. Cruz stated ‘Blue lives protect Black lives and all lives.’ Let’s stop vilifying them and stand with them in the name of delivering us from evil. Are there a few bad eggs in there? Sure. But the mass majority are out there day after day and night after night, while their families are at home praying they return home safely, protecting and serving communities. Who will you call when you’re the victim of a crime or violence? The Police. And they will be there to protect you. Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas and is a member of the original Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX