“ZOMG Donald Trump thinks Paris is in Germany! !!!” the   troll brigade tweet in unison today after the Republican presidential candidate summed up what can only be described as a   inspired clusterfuck taking place across Europe. [Mr. Trump, ever keen to comment on global events, tweeted: “Man shot inside Paris police station. Just announced that terror threat is at highest level. Germany is a total   crime. GET SMART!”  Man shot inside Paris police station. Just announced that terror threat is at highest level. Germany is a total   crime. GET SMART!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 7, 2016, Does this sound like Paris is in Germany? Maybe  —   but only if you want to read it that way. I’m going to hazard a guess here, and it’s just a guess. But I reckon a man with Mr. Trump’s property portfolio, combined with his access to a private jet means he’s probably been to Europe a fair few more times than even his most well travelled critic. See what Mr. Trump is summarising in this tweet, is that Europe is a basket case. And it’s a basket case because Mrs. Merkel and Mr. Hollande have done the very things that Mr. Trump would never do: 1. Allow uncontrolled, mass migration, with little to no checks on who is entering their countries, 2. Hand over power to an unelected bureaucratic organisation called the European Union, 3. Place more emphasis on ‘liberal’ ideology than what works best for the country, 4. Pretend that all Muslim immigrants are peaceful refugees who just want to integrate, 5. Deflect the blame for a lack of integration onto ‘right wing’ elements of society. And it’s not just Germany or France either. In the United Kingdom we have a similar situation. But Mr. Trump, like me, finds it hard to fit all the deeply disturbing,     that has effectively ruined Europe for at least a generation, into one tweet. “He should have used two tweets, then!” Yeah  —   coz THAT is what the world needs to concern itself with, right now. Right? HERE ARE SOME OF MY FAVES:  The corporate chimes in: Keep your mental focus today! Paris is not in Germany Donald  …     #ParisIsInGermany #Trump @realDonaldTrump,  —   Berocca UK (@BeroccaUK) January 7, 2016,  Channelling Jesus: Did Donald Trump literally tweet that Paris is in Germany? Jesus Christ,  —   andreas (@andre_masjien) January 7, 2016, The guy that works for the BBC:  Irony in Donald Trump urging the world to ‘Get Smart’ after mistaking Paris for a German City.  #Moron https:  .   —   Glen Hunt (@RadioGlen) January 7, 2016,  This ‘comedienne’: I don’t know what’s worse, that Donald Trump thinks Paris is in Germany, or that people are still surprised he’s that ignorant.  —   Olivia Bullock (@DoingItLiv) January 7, 2016, More corporates:  This just in: Donald Trump thinks Paris is in Germany. pic. twitter.   —   Paddy Power (@paddypower) January 7, 2016,  The fact that Yahoo ‘News’ thought it was ‘news’: Does Donald Trump Think Paris Is In Germany? https:  .  via @yahooNewsUK,  —   Luce Fleury Levi (@UniversalGraceF) January 7, 2016, 