Republican   nominee Gov. Mike Pence said Saturday that he does not condone the lewd remarks made 11 years ago by Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump but is grateful his running mate apologized and expressed remorse, and looks forward to Trump showing “what is in his heart” during Sunday night’s presidential debate. [As a husband and father, I was offended by the words and actions described by Donald Trump in the    video released yesterday. I do not condone his remarks and cannot defend them. I am grateful that he has expressed remorse and apologized to the American people. We pray for his family and look forward to the opportunity he has to show what is in his heart when he goes before the nation tomorrow night. Trump apologized for the lewd comments in a late Friday night video statement. He said in part, “I’ve said and done things I regret and the words released today on this more than a decade old video are one of them. Anyone who knows me knows these words don’t reflect who I am. I sat, I was wrong and I apologize. ”  “I’ve traveled the country talking about change for America, but my travels have also changed me,” continued Trump. “I’ve spent time with grieving mothers who have lost their children,   workers whose jobs have gone to other countries and people from all walks of life who just want a better future. I have gotten to know the great people of our country and I’ve been humbled by the faith they’ve placed in me. I pledge to be a better man tomorrow and will never, ever let you down. ” Trump will face off against Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton on Sunday night in a town   debate. It is the second of three scheduled debates between Trump and Clinton before the November 8 general election. Pence squared off against Clinton’s running mate Sen. Tim Kaine on Tuesday in the only scheduled debate between the VP candidates. Even a   CNN poll of debate watchers declared Pence the winner and found that almost 30 percent of those watching were more likely to vote for the   ticket after watching Pence’s performance. Follow Michelle Moons on Twitter @MichelleDiana 