Actress Sharon Stone admits that she’s ready for Hillary, but is afraid for America’s future if White House hopeful Donald Trump is elected president  —   which she says could lead to another Holocaust. [“We have leaders and people who are trying to be leaders who are running campaigns based on fear, and that’s a contagion. It’s horrible. Holocausts have occurred when that fire catches loose,” the    actress said in a Thursday interview with the Hollywood Reporter.   Stone, as Breitbart News reported, announced this week that she is backing out of production for a short film in Mississippi because of the state’s religious liberty bill. “I will not work in any state that holds or is actively creating laws to legally support discrimination against American citizens whether due to their race, religion, gender or sexual orientation, nor where those laws are passed or approved by the government of said state,” Stone said in a statement. Stone, who backed Obama in 2008, says Hillary Clinton is more qualified now than she was eight years ago having served as secretary of state. “She showed such grit and grace as secretary of state. That’s what it actually takes to be president. ” But when it comes to the Republican frontrunner, Stone’s excitement melts away. “When I go abroad and listen [to what people say about us] I just feel very, very sad. It was one thing during the George W. time where you just had to sit in shame, but this?” the Total Recall star said. Stone also lobbed personal attacks at Trump, comparing his hair to a “muskrat”. “What can I say that he doesn’t say for himself? I think the   muskrat on his head speaks worlds about his confidence,” she said adding that some of the blame for Donald Trump’s rise belongs to the media. “Unfortunately, there is a lot of humor attached to Trump in the media, but it isn’t funny and it wouldn’t be funny if he became president. ” Stone also says she likes Bernie Sanders personally, but seriously doubts his mental capacity and his capability, at 74 years old, to be president. “Bernie seems pretty old just in general, and some of his ideas are a little bit old. He’s not young doing this, and he didn’t really work until he was 40 so I wonder, like, how much acid has this guy taken?” Stone said. “I really do, that’s not a joke. We were so aggressive asking people, ‘Did you smoke pot?’ But in reality, how much acid has Bernie Sanders taken? Because there’s a certain edge to his personality and way about his behavior that makes me wonder, ‘How much LSD have you taken? ’” Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson