Bruce Springsteen has again slammed Donald Trump, saying in a new interview that the Republican presidential candidate’s statements in recent weeks represent an “attack on the entire Democratic process” and adding that he believes Trump has “no sense of decency. ”[In an interview with the BBC’s Channel 4 this week, the    “Born to Run” rocker predicted Trump would lose the presidential election to his rival, Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton.  “He has a feeling he’s going to lose now, which, of course, he’s going to lose,” Springsteen told the outlet. “And he knows that  …     and he’s such a flagrant, toxic narcissist that he wants to take down the entire democratic system with him if he goes. ” “He’s such a flagrant, toxic narcissist. ” That’s Bruce Springsteen’s view of @realDonaldTrump pic. twitter.   —   Channel 4 News (@Channel4News) October 18, 2016,  In the interview, intended to promote his new autobiography Born to Run, the E Street Band leader says Trump has “no sense of responsibility about him. ” “The words that he’s been using over the past several weeks really are an attack on the entire democratic process,” Springsteen told the BBC. “I think it’s very dangerous. He does have a lot of people’s ears, and I don’t think he’s going to go quietly, gently into the good night. I think he’s going to make as big a mess as he can and I don’t know what that’s going to mean, but we’ll find out shortly. ” This is hardly the first time Springsteen has weighed in on Trump during the election in a sprawling interview with Rolling Stone in September, the rocker called the Republican candidate a “moron” whose candidacy represents a “tragedy for our democracy. ” “When you start talking about elections being rigged, you’re pushing people beyond democratic governance. And it’s a very, very dangerous thing to do,” he said then. “Once you let those genies out of the bottle, they don’t go back in so easy, if they go back in at all. ” At a tour stop in Pittsburgh last month, Springsteen dedicated a song to a concertgoer who handed him a pocket copy of the Constitution with the phrase “F*ck Trump” scrawled on it. Watch a portion of Springsteen’s interview with the BBC above.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum