During his Tuesday appearance on Breitbart News Daily, SiriusXM host Stephen K. Bannon asked geopolitical analyst Dr. Herbert London for his take on the 2016 presidential contest. [“We’re not going to be sending 200, 000 troops into the Middle East. It doesn’t make any difference if it’s Hillary Clinton or Donald Trump,” London said. “It’s also true that the Republican Party is clearly split. There are many members of the party who, under no circumstances, could support Donald Trump. ”  “I’m not a great fan of Donald Trump’s, but I have to tell you that Hillary Clinton trumps Donald Trump  —   in the sense that she is, in my judgment, an evil force, an embodiment of evil that would create problems with the sustenance of our Constitution,” he said. “So I cannot, under any circumstances, support Hillary Clinton. My default position is to, therefore, do everything I can to support Donald Trump, only because I don’t want her. ” Bannon asked London to elaborate on his description of Clinton as a “force for evil. ” “What I mean by that is that Hillary Clinton is an inveterate liar,” London replied, explaining: When the bodies were returned from Benghazi to Andrews Air Force Base, she walked up to Ty Woods’ father  —   who had been one of the SEALs who fought to his last breath to save people at the embassy  —   and she said to him, “We will not let your son die in vain. We will find the man who is responsible, that is the filmmaker who made the film about the prophet Mohammed, and we will bring him to justice. ” “That was an absolute lie. She knew it was a lie when she was saying it. How can you say that to a father who is grieving over the loss of a son?” London asked. “How can you say that to an American hero? I mean, to me, that was about as sickening a moment as I can imagine in American life. ” “Now, I can give you hundreds of other examples of the inveterate lying, and the callous way in which she has used her own emails  —   which probably are in the possession of the Chinese, the Iranians, and the Russians,” he added. “She’s been thoroughly compromised. So it seems to me, when I say ‘evil,’ I’m talking about someone who doesn’t recognize the real national interests of the United States. ” Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00 a. m. to 9:00 a. m. Eastern. LISTEN: 