WASHINGTON  —   In a police shooting case that tests when people can sue law enforcement officers, Supreme Court justices on Wednesday argued sharply different views of whether improper actions by officers expose them to liability for what follows. In 2010, while looking for a wanted man, Los Angeles County sheriff’s deputies did not have a warrant when they illegally searched a house and a small shack behind it. Two deputies entered the shack without knocking or announcing themselves, saw what they said was a man holding a rifle  —   it turned out to be a BB gun  —   and opened fire. They wounded the man and his pregnant girlfriend, neither of whom was the person they were looking for. Angel Mendez, who lost his right leg below the knee in the shooting and lived in the shack with Jennifer Lynn Garcia, sued the county in federal court and won $4 million in damages. The county appealed. The legal question in the case, County of Los Angeles v. Mendez, is not about the shooting itself the courts have agreed that at the moment they pulled their triggers, the deputies could have reasonably believed they were in danger. Instead, the argument has turned on whether the warrantless search, a violation of constitutional rights, was the “proximate cause” that made the deputies liable for the shooting, or if it was merely a contributing factor. “It doesn’t seem to me a fluky or random thing to say, when there’s an unauthorized entry into someone’s home, violence may result,” Justice Elena Kagan said. She likened an officer without a warrant to a trespasser, who would meet a very different response than would a guest. But Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. disagreed strongly. “If you take away the failure to get a warrant, the harm still occurs,” he said. “The search warrant is not going to change the conduct. ” Justice Anthony M. Kennedy voiced seemingly conflicting views. Without liability, “we simply have no way to enforce the warrant requirement,” he said. But calling the lack of a warrant the proximate cause of the shooting, he said, is “a difficult position to defend. ” The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit ruled against Los Angeles County partly based on a theory that officers who recklessly provoke a confrontation can be liable for the results. Legal analysts expect that reasoning, which other appellate courts have not adopted, to be addressed in the Supreme Court’s decision. But it was barely discussed on Wednesday. The deputies’ failure to warn before entering the shack could be deemed improper, and was more directly linked to the shooting. But the Ninth Circuit ruled that it was not clear in 2010 that the “knock and announce” rule the courts have espoused would apply to a building like a shack. Using that rule to support the plaintiffs, Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. said, “You end up imposing liability for what is arguably a violation of best police practices. ” But Justice Stephen G. Breyer questioned the need to break the incident down moment by moment to find liability. “The background circumstances can be such that there is no justification for the whole ball of wax,” he said.