U. S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officials reported a 230 percent increase in the numbers of Family Unit Aliens (FMUA) apprehended along the southwest border with Mexico. [The increase represents an additional 16, 198 FMUA apprehensions when comparing the first two months of FY 2016 and FY 2017. 28, 694 FMUAs were apprehended between ports of entry along the southwest border with Mexico during October and November of this year. During that same period in 2015, 12, 496 FMUA apprehensions were made.  The Border Patrol defines a FMUA as the number of individuals (either a child under 18 years old, parent or legal guardian) apprehended with a family member by the U. S. Border Patrol. The 28, 694 FMUA apprehensions represent at least 57, 388 people. In many cases there are more than one minor with the family units so the number of people having to be processed by Border Patrol agents is likely much higher. A statement release by CBP officials states: In response to the increased number of individuals apprehended between ports of entry or encountered at ports of entry, CBP opened temporary holding facilities in Tornillo and Donna, Texas, capable of holding 500 people each.  The facilities are providing additional space for those in CBP custody awaiting transfer to U. S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement for processing, detention,   removal, or to the Department of Health and Human Services. CBP is prepared to add housing, beds, toilets, and bathing facilities as necessary. CBP is addressing this migratory surge along the Southwest border in a humane way, consistent with our border security mission and our American values. In order to staff these facilities, U. S. Border Patrol officials moved 150 agents from the Tucson, San Diego, and Del Rio Sectors to the McAllen and Weslaco Centralized Processing Stations, Breitbart Texas reported. The sectors are being robbed of agents are having their own surge of illegal immigrants as Department of Homeland Security (DHS) officials try to make it look like they are doing something in response to the renewed humanitarian crisis along the southern border. The San Diego Sector reported an increase in FMUA apprehensions of 303 percent when comparing FY 2016 and FY 2107 October numbers. UAC apprehensions also increased, by 71 percent over the same time period last year. Breitbart Texas reported on October 22 that the San Diego Sector was also dealing with a 600 percent increase of Haitian refugees comparing FY 2016 to the previous year. The Tucson Sector, from where agents are being moved to Texas, also saw an increase in FMUA apprehensions of 17 percent comparing October 2016 to October 2017. Fortunately, UAC apprehensions were down for the month. The Del Rio Sector saw a 51 percent increase in FMUA apprehensions during this same comparison period while UAC apprehensions dropped by only five percent. Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas. He is a founding member of the Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX.