Students at Jackson   High School in Tennessee are learning more than they probably bargained for. They watched the torture porn film The Human Centipede II (Full Sequence) (THC2) in class. [The film  —   about a man who sews his victims anus to mouth to create a “human centipede”  —   is considered “torture porn” and was initially banned in the United Kingdom, Australia and New Zealand.  According to the New York Daily News, the Centipede trilogy, “from Dutch director Tom Six, earned overwhelmingly negative reviews. ” The film reportedly avoided the ban in the United Kingdom only after Six made more than 30 edits. THC2 is unrated in the United States. Superintendent Verna Ruffin confirmed to The Jackson Sun that high school students had viewed part of the film after a parent of a student reported the incident to the newspaper, reports WTSP. Ruffin decline to comment about why the film was shown to students or whether the class’s teacher had been disciplined. She also said she was unsure how much of the film students saw. “The matter has been addressed,” Ruffin said. “It’s inappropriate and unacceptable. ” A letter from the school’s principal sent to parents of students in the class said, “I understand that on Wednesday, April 20, 2016, your student may have inadvertently viewed inappropriate content in a JCM classroom. This occurrence is inconsistent with our Mission and Vision at Jackson Central Merry. ” “I have investigated the situation and talked to those involved,” the letter reportedly read. “Immediate action has been taken to assure that there will be no further occurrences. ” The British Board of Film Classification states the movie focuses on “the sexual arousal of this character at the idea and later the spectacle of the total degradation, humiliation, mutilation, torture, rape and murder of his naked victims. ” In a tweet, director Six said his film was excellent class material. It should be mandatory to watch THC2 in school classes. It deals with a character that is bullied and what to do! https:  .   —   Tom Six (@tom_six) April 28, 2016,  “It should be mandatory to watch THC2 in school classes,” he said. “It deals with a character that is bullied and what to do!”