The parents of American hostage Kayla Mueller have shared with the public the 10 second “proof of life” video they received from her captors, the savage Islamic State ( ) in which their daughter proclaims, “It’s very terrifying here. ”[Mueller’s parents  —   Carl and Marsha Mueller  —   believe the Obama administration failed their daughter.  “The president could have been a hero, but he chose not to,” Mr. Muller told ABC News. Mr. and Mrs. Muller have provided a copy of the “proof of life” video to the news outlet.  “My name is Kayla Mueller. I need your help,” pleaded Mueller, the    humanitarian aid worker who was kidnapped in Syria on August 4, 2013, before ISIS had gained international notoriety. “I’ve been here too long and I’ve been very sick,” she continued. “It’s very terrifying here. ” Mueller’s parents also received a “proof of life” audio clip from ISIS on May 29, 2014, nearly a year after she was abducted. “Goodbye,” she abruptly said at the end. That was Mueller’s last spoken word to her parents. In in the audio, Muller said: Mom and Dad, I still am remaining healthy. You should have already received the three answers to the proof life questions you provided. Those detaining me are demanding an exchange of Dr. Aafia Siddiqui’s release for my release. If this is not achievable, they are demanding 5 million euros to ensure my release. ABC News has learned from one of the hostages who was enslaved alongside Mueller that she bravely defended her Christian faith. The news outlet notes: American hostage Kayla Mueller was tortured, verbally abused, forced into slave labor for ISIS commanders in Syria and raped by the group’s top leader [Abu Bakr al Baghdadi] but her fellow hostages say she never surrendered hope, she selflessly put the welfare of fellow captives above her own and she even stood up to executioner ‘Jihadi John’ to defend her Christian faith. A    Yazidi girl who was also held hostage alongside Mueller has been identified by ABC News as Mueller’s closest friend while in captivity. Thousands of Yazidi girls have been forced into sex slavery by ISIS. She has asked ABC News to identify her only as “Julia. ” “She [Mueller] told the [fellow hostage] girls that part of surviving was being forced to pretend she had converted to Islam so the ISIS leader could sexually assault her, though she still clung secretly to her Christian faith,” recounted Julia. Mueller “was praying for us to escape, to survive,” added the Yazidi girl. “I will never forget this sacrifice. She was very good to us. I will never forget. ” The ISIS terrorists charged with overseeing Mueller were led by British terrorist Mohammed Emwazi, who became known as “Jihadi John” when he carried out the beheadings and killings of 10 hostages. He was killed by a CIA armed drone in Syria last year. Former hostage Daniel Rye Ottosen, a Danish freelance photographer, recalled how Mueller stood up to Jihadi John to defend her Christian faith. ISIS has committed genocide against Christians in the Middle East, crucifying, torturing, and enslaving thousands of Christians.  President Barack Obama has reportedly broken a promise to make a contribution to a charity foundation Mueller’s parents established in Kayla’s. “I’m still waiting for that donation, Mr. President,” Carl Mueller told ABC  News. In February 2015, ISIS claimed that American hostage Mueller was killed in Syria by a Jordanian airstrike. Although the White House has denied that an airstrike killed her, it confirmed Muller’s death a few days after the ISIS claim without revealing the cause. Mr. and Mrs. Mueller have indicated that “a series of missteps” by the Obama administration “failed their daughter,” reports ABC News. “The Muellers say White House officials threatened them with criminal prosecution if they tried to pay the $6. 2 million ransom ISIS had demanded for the release of their daughter,” points of the news outlet.