Filmmaker and playwright Phelim McAleer is readying his latest project  —   a series of short films that will reenact the sworn depositions of key Hillary Clinton staffers about the Democrat presidential nominee’s improper and possibly illegal use of a private email server during her tenure as Secretary of State. [Dubbed “the films that Hillary and her cronies don’t want you to see,” McAleer’s project, titled Clinton Emails on Film, will be a series of verbatim reenactments of the sworn testimony of many of Clinton’s top aides, including Cheryl Mills and Huma Abedin.  The first video in the series (McAleer has pledged at least five short films) was released online Thursday, featuring the testimony of Mills, who served as Clinton’s Chief of Staff during her time at the State Department.  In a statement announcing the project, McAleer  —   the man behind 2013’s FrackNation, last year’s controversial Ferguson stage play and the   of the upcoming Gosnell film  —   said that the fact that Clinton’s attorneys were able to block the release of the deposition videos caused him to take action. “It’s about the truth,” McAleer told Breitbart News Friday morning. “This was an attempt to suppress and censor truth and I felt it could not stand. ” “I grew up during the troubles in Northern Ireland. I know how important it is to tell the truth  —   it’s why I went into journalism,” the filmmaker added. “And this suppression of the tapes by Hillary’s lawyers was like a red flag to me  —   as a journalist, I just had to make sure the truth gets out there. ” Of Mills’s testimony, the first film in the series, McAleer called the staffer’s deposition “a masterclass in Clintonian lies and evasions. ” “She said a version of ‘I don’t know’ or ‘I don’t recall’ 189 times during her deposition. Her team of lawyers objected to questions more than 200 times,” the filmmaker said. “Her evidence is amazing and it deserves to be brought to a wider audience, not censored and hidden away. And we now have it on film. ” McAleer started a crowdfunding campaign to help get the rest of the video series filmed, which had already collected more than $20, 000 by Friday morning. Backers of the film get access to exclusive perks including an executive producer credit or a visit to the films’ Los Angeles set. The series is set to end with Abedin’s testimony at the end of June however, if enough evidence is collected, Clinton herself may be asked to testify in a deposition. Of course, McAleer will be ready if that happens. “That will be a great film!” he said.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum