LONDON  —   One was a police constable who spent 15 years with the Metropolitan Police in London. A second was a teacher who, according to reports, was walking from her school along Westminster Bridge. Another was a man from Utah who was on vacation with his wife, celebrating their 25th anniversary. The fourth was a    man, whose family removed him from life support. They were all killed by an assailant who plowed through pedestrians on the bridge  —   injuring at least 50 others in the heart of the city  —   crashed his vehicle into a fence and then emerged with knives to stab the constable on Wednesday. Among the wounded, many of them foreign tourists, were 12 Britons, four South Koreans, three French high school students, two Romanians, two Greeks and one citizen each of China, Germany, Ireland, Italy and the United States. On Thursday afternoon local time, the police identified the assailant, who was shot and killed by officers, as Khalid Masood, 52. In a speech at Parliament, Prime Minister Theresa May said the attacker was   and was previously investigated by MI5, Britain’s domestic counterintelligence agency, for possible ties to violent extremism. The prime minister visited victims at a hospital in London for 40 minutes on Thursday, according to her office. Many of them had not been publicly identified. At a news conference, Mark Rowley, the assistant police commissioner, cited both the police investigation and the need to notify family members as reasons. But information has dribbled out. ■ Police Constable Keith Palmer, 48, a member of the Parliamentary and Diplomatic Protection Command, was patrolling the Parliament building when the assailant fatally stabbed him. Tributes for Constable Palmer have poured in. “He was someone who left for work today expecting to return home at the end of his shift, and he had every right to expect that would happen,” Commissioner Rowley said in a statement. Mayor Sadiq Khan said, “Keith Palmer was killed while bravely doing his duty  —   protecting our city and the heart of our democracy from those who want to destroy our way of life. ” James Cleverly, a lawmaker, said on Twitter that he had served in the Royal Artillery with Constable Palmer, calling him “a lovely man, a friend. ” On Thursday, the Metropolitan Police announced in a Twitter post that his badge number would be retired. ■ Kurt Cochran, an American traveling in Europe with his wife, Melissa Payne Cochran, died of injuries sustained in the attack, according to a statement from the family issued through the Church of Jesus Christ of   Saints in Salt Lake City. Clint Payne, Mr. Cochran’s    said in the statement: “Our family is heartbroken to learn of the death of our   and    Kurt W. Cochran, who was a victim of Wednesday’s terrorist attack in London. Kurt was a good man and a loving husband to our sister and daughter, Melissa. They were in Europe to celebrate their 25th wedding anniversary, and were scheduled to return to the United States on Thursday. ” Mr. Cochran’s wife was also wounded in the attack, and she was hospitalized with “a broken leg, a broken rib and a cut on her head,” said her sister Sarah   in a post on Facebook. Their parents were serving as missionaries in London, according to the church. The couple ran a recording studio in West Bountiful, Utah, and Mr. Cochran had shared pictures of their stops  in Germany and Scotland. ■ Aysha Frade, 43, a British teacher, lived in London with her husband and two daughters. She taught Spanish not far from Westminster Bridge, according to the Spanish newspaper La Voz de Galicia, and she had family in Spain, according to the Spanish Foreign Ministry. Ms. Frade’s mother immigrated to Britain from Betanzos, a Galician town in northwestern Spain. Ms. Frade’s two sisters run the Academia Notting Hill language school in Betanzos and live in a village nearby. Her father is of Turkish Cypriot descent, a family friend said. On Thursday, the Betanzos town hall held a moment of silence at noon to honor Ms. Frade. Local leaders decreed three days of mourning. Ms. Frade, 43, was a British citizen, but “her link with our town was always very strong,” José Luis Pariente, a Betanzos town hall official, said by phone. “She came back here to visit every summer. ” Amy Winter, the family friend and a neighbor in the Notting Hill district of London, said on the phone: “When I think of Aysha, I think of her radiant smile. She always cheered people up. ” “It crushes me to know that she was going to pick up her girls when she was killed,” she said, adding, “They were everything to her. ” Rachel Borland, the principal of DLD College London, said in a statement: “We are all deeply shocked and saddened at the news that one of the victims yesterday was a member of our staff, Aysha Frade. All our thoughts and our deepest sympathies are with her family. ” ■  Leslie Rhodes, 75, a retired window cleaner from the Streatham neighborhood of south London, was injured in the rampage. He was removed from life support on Thursday. One of his neighbors, Michael Carney, told local news media that he had known Mr. Rhodes for 40 years, calling him “the nicest mind you ever met. ” Another neighbor described Mr. Rhodes as “fit as a fiddle” and said he wasn’t married and had no children. Mr. Carney said his own relatives went to the hospital to be by Mr. Rhodes’s side. “My wife and my two girls went up there and were with him until he died, playing him music,” Mr. Carney said. “He liked Queen and that. ” He added: “He had no one. You can’t have someone dying on their own. ” ■ Three of the wounded were   boys from France who were on the bridge with other visiting students. The three attended St.  high school in Concarneau, Brittany, according to the French Foreign Ministry. The mother of one of the injured students told the French news media that he had borrowed a friend’s cellphone to text that he was O. K. “His phone didn’t work, but he must have known I would try to reach him because I immediately got a text message from him,” the mother, Isabelle Calvez, said on French television. “He told me he was O. K. but had the incident happened 20 seconds later, he would’ve been hit by the car. ” She added that two of the other students had fractured arms and legs, while another had a neck injury. On Thursday, the French Education Ministry said that the injured students from Brittany had been treated and that their conditions were no longer  . Juliette Meadel, the government minister for victims’ affairs, told CNEWS that the three students were among a group of 56 that went to a nearby hostel after the attack. A second group from the high school, with 36 students, was in another location in London when the attack occurred. Ms. Meadel said the uninjured students would return to France on Thursday. There are more than 4, 200 students in London on school trips from France, according to the Education Ministry. Most of the other planned school trips to London on Thursday or Friday have been postponed. Prime Minister Bernard Cazeneuve of France expressed solidarity with “our British friends” hurt in the attack and offered “full support to the injured French pupils, their families and their classmates. ” ■ Five South Koreans were among the 29 people hospitalized. They were wounded when they were mobbed by a crowd fleeing the attack site, according to the South Korean Foreign Ministry. Four of them  —   three women and a man in their 50s and 60s  —   sustained fractures and other injuries that were not believed to be  . A    woman, however, suffered a head injury when she was pushed by the fleeing crowd, according to South Korean news reports. She later had surgery to treat her injuries. ■ The two Romanian victims, Andrei Burnaz, 32, and Andreea Cristea, 31, are from the Black Sea port city of Constanta, according to the Romanian news agency Mediafax, which quoted an official as saying they were in London to celebrate Mr. Burnaz’s birthday. Ms. Cristea went into the Thames off Westminster Bridge when the assailant drove through the crowd, and news reports said she suffered serious head injuries and lung damage. She was rescued, and Mr. Burnaz’s foot was fractured. ■ At least three of those injured after being “driven at by a vehicle” were members of the police force, and were in stable condition. ■ A woman described as “an Australian permanent resident” was among the wounded, according to that nation’s government. Australian news outlets reported that the assailant’s vehicle had run over her foot on the bridge. The woman, originally from Germany, lives in South Australia, according to an Australian news report. ■ Two Greeks were hospitalized for minor injuries, according to Alexis Georgiades, the press counselor at the Greek Embassy in London.