HOUSTON, Texas  —   Following an overnight manhunt, a Texas man has been arrested and charged with decapitating the owner of a southeast Houston auto parts store. The arrest follows a call for help from the community by Houston police officers. [Raymond George Jackson, Jr. 62, has been charged with the murder of    Enayatolah Khursand. Khursand’s headless body was found inside the Mykawa Auto Parts store in southeast Houston Thursday evening. Police officials released a security video earlier in the day asking for help from the public in identifying the man now identified as Jackson, KTRK ABC13 reported.  Police are calling the attack on Khursand “brutal. ” They are not yet sure what motive the suspect may have had for carrying out such brutality against the victim. ABC’s Courtney Fischer called the scene “gruesome. ” She tweeted that the shop’s owner had been decapitated by a killer inside his own store. No information available about where Jackson was hiding when police caught up with him Friday afternoon. However, Houston police homicide investigator Alex Vinogradov told the Houston Chronicle that Jackson was “caught on video decapitating and beating this man to his death. ” There was no apparent forced entry into the store and witnesses told investigators that Jackson frequently visits the store. People in the community told the local newspaper that Khorsand was well liked in the area and was not involved in anything suspicious. An HPD officer in the homicide investigation division told Breitbart Texas Friday afternoon that it did not appear that anything was taken from the store. He described the scene as “pretty crazy. ” The officer said Jackson was found by officers from the patrol division and did not appear to have put up resistance to being arrested. He is currently being interviewed by homicide detectives. Records obtained from the Harris County District Clerk’s office by Breitbart Texas revealed Jackson has a previous felony charge of aggravated assault of a family member. He allegedly threatened his   with a knife. That 2008 case was eventually dismissed after a grand jury failed to return an indictment. Jackson had three other misdemeanor charges of trespassing on a property or building with no forcible entry. He was convicted in the 2013 trespassing charge and sentenced to 6 days in jail. He was sentenced to 3 days in jail for a 2007 trespassing charge and 10 days in jail for a trespassing charge in 1986. Jackson was divorced from his wife in 2006. She was later named as the victim in the domestic violence charge and a protective order was issued on her behalf. The suspect will now face a new charge in connection with beating and beheading murder Enayatolah Khursand. Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas. He is a founding member of the Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX.  