Following up a Donald Trump assassination joke on Saturday, liberal talk show host Bill Maher said Monday that he would rather vote for a “dead” Hillary Clinton over her Republican challenger Donald Trump in the 2016 presidential election. [In a tweet Monday afternoon, the host of HBO’s Real Time dismissed concerns about Clinton’s newly diagnosed pneumonia, arguing that he’d prefer a deathly ill Clinton to what he called the “tangerine nightmare” of Trump.  “Pneumonia? I’d vote for Dead Hillary in this race,” Maher tweeted. “She could be Patient Zero for Bubonic Plague, still better than #TangerineNightmare. ” Pneumonia? I’d vote for Dead Hillary in this race. She could be Patient Zero for Bubonic Plague, still better than #TangerineNightmare,  —   Bill Maher (@billmaher) September 13, 2016,  Maher has increasingly taken to Twitter in recent weeks to post his thoughts on the election. The    comedian has previously compared Trump to Nazi leader Adolf Hitler. I like #GaryJohnson, but #Aleppo is not one of the Marx Brothers. Don’t fuck around with this election vote for Hillary, nobody’s perfect.  —   Bill Maher (@billmaher) September 8, 2016,  To those who say #Trump spoke 2 diff messages to 2 diff audiences today, he says ”Exactly.” In a stupid country, that works. Be very afraid.  —   Bill Maher (@billmaher) September 1, 2016,  Media is ”the lowest form of life” (@realDonaldTrump ) but Hillary = bad because she won’t have a press conference? How can both be true?  —   Bill Maher (@billmaher) August 23, 2016,  During a   performance in Washington, D. C. on Saturday, Maher suggested that with the 2016 race between Clinton and Trump “tightening,” somebody “is going to have to go out there” and remedy the situation, referencing the recent release of John Hinckley Jr.  —   the man who attempted to assassinate President Ronald Reagan in 1981  —   from a psychiatric facility earlier this month. “I’m nervous with this election,” Maher told the audience at the DAR Constitution Hall. “I saw the headline today: ‘Race tightening, Trump ahead in Ohio and Florida.’ If this race is even the week before the election, somebody is going to have to go out there  …     Why do you think they let Hinckley out?” Concerns about Hillary Clinton’s health received renewed attention on Sunday when a video surfaced online showing the candidate apparently requiring help to get into her motorcade van. The Clinton campaign said the candidate had left a September 11 commemoration event in New York City early on Sunday due to “overheating. ” However, Clinton’s physician, Dr. Lisa Bardack, later said in a statement that the candidate had been diagnosed with pneumonia on Friday. Clinton has since cancelled a scheduled fundraising trip to California and is reportedly resting at her home in Chappaqua, New York.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum