FBI questions Hillary Clinton on email server. What do we know so far about the investigation? https:  .  Tuesday on MSNBC’s “Morning Joe,” host Mika Brzezinski discussed the latest developments in the FBI’s investigation into presumptive Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server while secretary of state.  Brzezinski noted an interview Clinton conducted with NBC over the weekend, which they only allowed her to be interviewed for five minutes. That gave off an appearance that everything was “very concocted” to protect Clinton. “That is like everything here,” Brzezinski said. “Everything seems very concocted to protect her. And boy would I like her to be doing well right now. But Mark Halperin, tell me what you see in this. Are they trying to move this along? Are they trying to get this over with? Are they trying to even coordinate it and control it? Even everything  —   we know Clinton is meeting with Loretta Lynch in private, or all of a sudden meeting with the FBI on a Saturday morning, Fourth of July weekend for     hours. Did they ask for it? Are they trying to move it along? What do we know? And how are we supposed to assume everything is above board here?” “We don’t know some basic things that we often know about investigations at this stage,” Halperin replied. “For one thing, is she subject to recall? A lot of times with   witnesses like this, David Kendall, Hillary Clinton’s lawyer may have negotiated to say you get one crack at her, one time to sit with her and take as long as you want but that’s it. We don’t know whether she’s coming back or not. We also don’t know if prosecutors really looking for a crime here or run influence and say we investigated and there’s no crime at all. Prosecutors generally when they investigate a case want an indictment. That’s what they do. We don’t know what their   is towards this. Everyone I talk to in Clinton world seems very relaxed about where things stand. ” Follow Jeff Poor on Twitter @jeff_poor