The people of Paris have come together in a day of mourning to mark the one year anniversary of the Islamic terror attacks which claimed the lives of 130 people. [French President Francois Hollande and Paris Mayor Anne Hidalgo visited each site targeted by nine Islamist extremists on the night of November 13, 2015.  In silence, Hollande pulled French flags from plaques commemorating the victims who died at each site. The names of the victims were also read out at each site. The Stade de France, where France was playing Germany, bore witness to the first attack by suicide bombers, resulting in the death of Manuel Dias, a Portugese immigrant to France. At the commemorative event Dias’ son Michael said his father was “living proof that integration is possible, necessary” to end the violence carried out by those who felt excluded. Learning to live again following the death of his father at the hands of terrorists was “a personal challenge, but it concerns us all,” Dias said, crediting his father, who came to France at 18, with life lessons like the need for education. “It is by knowledge, by intelligence that the children of tomorrow can stop humiliating themselves as cannon fodder in the service of criminal,   interests   …     as is the case today,” he said. “[They are] incapable of reflection, thinking about the world and expressing the unease and social exclusion they feel. ” A sign scrawled and posted near the Bataclan, where 89 people lost their lives to three gunmen reads: “Love for all, hate for no one”. But while it captures the sense of defiance shared by many, some residents of the lively neighborhood are still trying to heal. “We always have this fear that weighs heavily in our hearts. We always try to be careful. And every time we pass by here, we think of them,” Sabrina Nedjadi said. “I am afraid for my children, when they take the Metro. When my son goes to work, I am afraid. When I get into a Metro I am afraid. ” As a show of strength, posters created by the city of Paris have been placed all across the city featuring the city’s motto: ‘Fluctuat nec mergitur’  —   a Latin phrase meaning “Tossed but not sunk”. As a sign of hope, several hundred balloons were released from the nearby town hall following a sombre service, where Mr Hollande was in attendance. Lanterns were floated along the Canal   as dusk fell. Hannah Schumann, a nurse, said: “everybody is emotional. I’m crying. ”