Speaking to Rich Zeoli on Talk Radio 1210 WPHT Monday, Breitbart Tech editor Milo Yiannopoulos said that Islam as a whole, not just the extremists, was the root course of violent attacks on gays and women by Muslims. [“I’m not talking about Islamists. I’m not talking about terrorists. I’m not talking about radical Islam. I’m talking about mainstream Muslim culture” said Yiannopoulos. “There are eleven Muslim countries in which I could be killed for being a homosexual. The state penalty is death. One hundred million people live in countries where the penalty for homosexuality is death. This is not radical Islam. This is mainstream Muslim society. Look what’s happening in Sweden. Look what’s happening anywhere in Germany, anywhere there are large influxes of a Muslim population. Things don’t end well for women and gays. The left has got to make a decision. Either they want female emancipation and it wants gay rights or it wants Islam. It’s got to pick  …    ”  “Women are treated abominably everywhere in the Muslim world. Gays are treated even worse. It shouldn’t be a surprise to us that when we invite these people into western, democratic, capitalist, free societies that bad things start to happen. America is the greatest country in the world. It is a country founded on freedom, freedom of movement, free enterprise, property rights, the rule of law, the First and the Second Amendment. Those principles have created the greatest country in the world. Those things are under threat from an alien culture that respects none of those principles. ” Yiannopoulos also pointed out the fact that the Orlando shooter failed to be fired after announcing that he wanted to “kill all black people” while working for security firm G4S. “Remember, the shooter in Orlando was working at G4S and said he wanted to kill all black people. He didn’t get fired. Why? Because he’s Muslim. One was scared. Do they want a world in which Muslims get to do and say whatever they want and these tragedies become common place? Because I don’t want to see America go that way  …     Or do we make a stand?” Yiannopoulos also spoke about his distaste for the term “hate crime” gun free zones, and why the LGBT community should start to embrace the Second Amendment and protect themselves. He will be speaking at UCF Orlando tonight at 6:00 PM EDT on the topic of “Gays and Islam”. You can listen to the full interview below: 