U. S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officers working at the Port of Nogales, Arizona, seized nearly $2 million in drugs this week. [The drugs were discovered by CBP officers in multiple attempted smuggling incidents this week. The drugs seized include marijuana, methamphetamine and heroin, according to a statement obtained from the CBP by Breitbart Texas.  Officers stopped a Mexican female driving a Chevrolet SUV through the DeConcini crossing from Mexico on April 22. A   officer alerted officials to the presence of drugs. During a secondary inspection, officers discovered over five pounds of heroin and   pounds of meth. These loads were valued at approximately $91, 000 and $295, 000 respectively. The    Mexican woman was taken into custody and the SUV and drugs were seized. That same day, officers stopped a    American woman from Tucson, Arizona. Again, a   officer detected the presence of narcotics in her Suzuki SUV as she attempted to cross the Mariposa crossing from Mexico. The   officer directed the other officers to the rear quarter panels of the SUV where they discovered 20 pounds of heroin and 15 pounds of meth. Officials stated the value of the heroin was about $341, 000. They said the meth was worth about $45, 000. Authorities placed the female suspect in federal custody and seize the drugs and vehicle. A    Mexican woman attempted to cross the DeConcini crossing in a Nissan van on April 23rd. Officers referred the vehicle to a secondary inspection station where they found 140 pounds of marijuana in the rear cargo area. Officers valued the marijuana at about $70, 000. Later that day, a    Mexican woman and her    passenger attempted to enter the U. S. in a Ford SUV. A   officer alerted to the presence of drugs. A detailed inspection later revealed 152 pounds of liquid methamphetamine in the fuel tank of the vehicle. The liquid meth is valued at approximately $457, 000. The following day, officials found two additional loads of drugs that were being smuggled through the DeConcini crossing. In the first incident, a    resident of Nogales, Arizona attempted to cross from Mexico in a Cadillac sedan. A   officer alerted to the presence of drugs. Officers found 24 pounds of meth, valued at about $71, 000. The drugs had been hidden in the vehicle’s quarter panels. Later that day, a    Mexican woman attempted to cross the DeConcini crossing in a BMW sedan. A   officer, once again, alerted other officers to the presence of drugs in the vehicle. An inspection revealed 27 pounds of meth that officials stated being worth about $82, 000. Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas and is a member of the original Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX.