Update: CNN admits that they mischaracterized Sherelle Smith’s comments as a call for peace:[We shorthanded sister’s quote. Unintentionally gave the impression she was calling for peace everywhere. Correction: https:  .   —   Ana Cabrera (@AnaCabrera) August 16, 2016,   A recent report by CNN features a deceptively edited clip of Sherelle Smith  —   sister to Sylville Smith, the armed man shot by Milwaukee Police  —   making it look as if she was calling for peace on the streets in her neighborhood. But a closer look at all her comments  —   most of which were edited out by CNN  —   reveals that rather than merely calling for an end to the destruction in her own neighborhood, she also ordered rioters to take their violence and destruction to the suburbs. Titling its report “Residents try to heal,” CNN slipped in a few seconds of the words uttered by Sherelle Smith, a sister of the    black man shot by an African American Milwaukee Police officer on Saturday. The young woman’s edited comments make it seem as if she was calling for peace, Newsbusters noted. In the clip CNN tells its audience, “Smith’s sister Sherelle Smith condemned the violence, saying the community needs the businesses affected. ” Then CNN cuts to Smith who is seen saying, “Don’t bring that violence here. ” It would have been a wonderful thing if Miss Smith were calling for a complete end to the violence. But what she actually said was something far different. Here are her comments in full: Burnin down sh*t ain’t going to help nothin! Y’all burnin’ down sh*t we need in our community. Take that sh*t to the suburbs. Burn that sh*t down! We need our sh*t! We need our weaves. I don’t wear it. But we need it. In other words, she was not just calling for an end to the violence in her own neighborhood. She was also calling for that same violence to be transferred to the suburbs.  Already, though, the   media is attempting to spin the unrest in Milwaukee as both a case of “racist cops” as well as “poverty” forcing the residents to riot. In a separate story, CNN insisted that the neighborhood in North Milwaukee has been “long marred by racial tensions. ” Even the city’s police chief, Ed Flynn, said during a Monday press conference that the rioting had little to do with Saturday’s   shooting. But Chief Flynn had a little finger pointing of his own to do. He claimed a contingent from the Revolutionary Communist Party of Chicago is responsible for riling his city. “The (group) showed up, and actually they’re the ones who started to cause problems leading into evening by marching and trying to take over Sherman and Burleigh,” Flynn said. “That was about 11:30 at night. We made it to 11:30 in the evening, and we had these characters show up  …    ” The Daily Beast is blaming the riots on “poverty” and racism, insisting in an August 16 piece that the community erupted in violence because they are “treated like criminals” by a city that has been controlled exclusively by Democrats since 1908. But the Daily Beast piece also lays some of the blame for the destruction on clashes between the black community and immigrants who operate stores in the area. The gas station that went up in flames, the Beast points out, is owned by a family of emigres from India. Supposedly locals resented them and used the riots as an excuse to burn the family’s business down. The clash between immigrants, though, seems to be one the Democrat Party is not only aware of, but counting on. Obama made his strategy of forcing immigrants into America’s cities clear in 2006 when he acknowledged in his autobiography, “The Audacity of Hope,” that   migration hurts the wages of  . But while that influx of immigrants is bad for blacks, it’s good for the Democrat Party. “This huge influx of mostly   workers provides some benefits to the economy as a whole  …     [but] it also threatens to depress further the wages of   Americans,” Obama said. But he went on to say those immigrants help the Democratic Party grow its voter base. “In my mind, at least, the fates of black and brown were to be perpetually intertwined, the cornerstone of a [Democratic] coalition that could help America live up to its [progressive] promise,” he wrote. Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston or email the author at igcolonel@hotmail. com.