Actress Amber Heard filed for a domestic violence restraining order against husband Johnny Depp in a California court on Friday  —   and reportedly brought along photos of her bruised face as evidence. [According to TMZ, the    Rum Diary star appeared with her lawyer Samantha Spector to file for the restraining order on Friday, while claiming that Depp struck her in the face during an altercation last Saturday night.  The court appearance came just a few days after Heard filed for divorce from the    Pirates of the Caribbean star. In court Friday, Heard alleged that Depp smashed her in the face with his iPhone and shattered various items around their apartment during the fight Saturday night. Depp had reportedly fled before police arrived, so they took a report from Heard and left. Heard also claims to have video of an alleged beating. A source with knowledge of the situation told People magazine that the Saturday night fight was “not an isolated event. ” “This was only the latest incident,” the unnamed source told the magazine. Heard says that Depp allegedly offered her money to keep quiet about the violence, but she instead filed for divorce soon thereafter. Depp responded to Heard’s divorce filing on Thursday, with a representative for the actor releasing a statement to People saying he wanted the matter to be resolved quickly. “Given the brevity of this marriage and the most recent and tragic loss of his mother, Johnny will not respond to any of the salacious false stories, gossip, misinformation and lies about his personal life,” a rep for the actor told the magazine. “Hopefully the dissolution of this short marriage will be resolved quickly. ” Heard and Depp were married in February 2015 and the actress filed for divorce after just 15 months. The actor previously had a   relationship with French model Vanessa Paradis and was married to Lori Anne Allison from 1983 to 1986. Depp was not present in the California courtroom on Friday, as he is out of town promoting his latest film, Alice Through the Looking Glass. His attorney Laura Wasser appeared in court on his behalf.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum