London has its Fourth Plinth, where contemporary artists have graced  —   and sometimes goaded  —   viewers in Trafalgar Square with sculptural work on a bare pedestal originally intended for an equestrian statue of William IV. Now New York will have its own plinth, a highly visible permanent stage for ambitious new international sculpture commissions, perched above 30th Street and 10th Avenue on one of the final sections of the High Line. This plinth, expected to open sometime in 2018, will likely change sizes and shapes depending on the artwork intended for it. It is a new creation by the High Line, being built on the spur that turns east at 30th Street, creating a corner that forms a kind of plaza, roomy enough for crowds and for larger sculpture than the narrow elevated park now accommodates. Cecilia Alemani, the director and chief curator of High Line Art, said that the development of the spur, which will be ringed by the skyscrapers of the new Hudson Yards office complex, prompted her and High Line officials to think about a stage that would hold its own with   public art sites like Rockefeller Center, City Hall Park and Madison Square Park. The plinth will be tall enough so that work on it will be instantly visible from the street, but on the High Line itself the space will be flanked by trees, making entering it feel something like walking into a clearing. “It’s almost like a jungle,” she said during a recent tour of the plaza’s construction site. “It’s like you leave the city for a while and go somewhere else. And it’s given us really the only place where we’ll have the ability to put   pieces, which will be like a punctuation in a beautiful piazza. ” Sculptures will remain on view for a year and a half at a time. The program will be funded by the Friends of the High Line and private donors at a cost that was not disclosed. Calls for art work went out quietly last year, and more than 50 artists submitted proposals. An advisory committee of prominent artists and curators  —   including Helen Molesworth, the chief curator of the Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles, and Franklin Sirmans, the director of the Pérez Art Museum in Miami  —   helped draw up the full roster of artists to be considered, and by spring a list of a dozen finalists will be narrowed to two by High Line officials. The short list includes veterans like Charles Gaines and the sculptor Haim Steinbach (who has proposed a piece resembling a chicken coop on stilts, a kind of comic vision of a penthouse) and   younger artists like Jeremy Deller, Matthew Day Jackson, Cosima von Bonin and Sam Durant, whose proposal is the most overtly political, a large sculptural version of a drone with wings stretched out over the High Line as if it were approaching Midtown for a missile launch. (In London in 2009, the artist Antony Gormley used the Fourth Plinth as a human stage, enlisting volunteers, some in various states of undress, to serve as the sculpture. “Nakedness is to art,” Mr. Gormley said, “what the ball is to football. ”) The other High Line finalists include Jonathan Berger, Minerva Cuevas, Lena Henke, Roman Ondak, Paola Pivi and Simone Leigh. Ms. Leigh has proposed a    bust of a black female figure whose body evokes both a skirt and a hut, based on smaller figures that have long been part of her work. In an interview, she said that the muscular,   site of the plinth was a place “I found a really horrifying environment for my work when I first saw it. ” She added, “And then I thought: ‘What better place to put a black female figure?’ Not in defiance of the space, exactly, but to have a different idea of beauty there. ”