MEMPHIS  —   Coach Roy Williams recalled feeling so inadequate in that locker room last season. North Carolina had just lost in the national championship game to Villanova on a   shot, and Williams was left to rummage through his team’s splintered dreams. What could he say? How could he help? “It’s just like somebody reached into your chest and pulled your heart out and shook it right in front of your face and taunted you,” Williams said this week. “There was nothing that I could say that would remove the pain that those kids felt and our staff felt. But I told them I would hope one thing they could get out of it was to use that as fuel. ” The players who returned this season have fulfilled that desire, applying new hope to their old goal of chasing a national title. On Friday night, the   Tar Heels used their size and shooting acumen to overwhelm the   Butler Bulldogs,   in a South Regional semifinal at FedEx Forum. North Carolina, college basketball royalty, advanced to the round of 8 for the 26th time in school history by shooting 54. 4 percent from the field. Joel Berry II, a junior guard who had been dealing with a sore right ankle, led the Tar Heels with 26 points, and Justin Jackson, a junior forward, added 24. Luke Maye, a sophomore forward, came off the bench to collect 16 points and 12 rebounds. Butler ( ) offered something resembling a threat late in the second half when      by Kelan Martin helped trim North Carolina’s lead, which reached 20 points early in the half, to 10. But the Tar Heels ( ) had too much size and too many options. With less than three minutes to go, Jackson misfired on a  . But Theo Pinson, a    forward, corralled the offensive rebound, and the possession led to a layup by Berry to make it  . North Carolina arrived here for a regional thick with blue bloods. Kentucky and U. C. L. A. no strangers to championships, faced each other in Friday’s late semifinal. Butler, then, was something of an afterthought  —   to most folks, anyway. But not to Williams, who called the Bulldogs “pretty doggone good” before Friday’s game. He cited, for example, that Butler had won its last two games against North Carolina, dating to 2012, as well as the program’s    appearances in national championship games, in 2010 and 2011. As a result, Williams said, he had not spent a second watching film of Kentucky or U. C. L. A. ahead of Friday’s meeting. His focus was on the Bulldogs. As for Butler Coach Chris Holtmann, he expected to be slightly daunted by the moment. The program had been through a lot since making its last appearance in the regional semifinals in 2011, a roller coaster that winded through coaching changes and a move to the Big East Conference. Holtmann, who took over in 2014, has emerged as a steadying force. On Friday, the problem was that he could glance at the opposing bench and see Williams, a dean of the coaching industry, the proud owner of   wins and two national titles. “Somebody is going to be really calm come opening tip,” Holtmann said before the game, “and somebody is going to be really nervous. I’ll let you figure it out. ” Holtmann knew his team would be undersized, especially in the frontcourt, and he anticipated that the Tar Heels would run much of their offense through the post. He compared them to the Green Bay Packers of the Vince Lombardi era: Everyone knew what was coming, but nobody knew how to stop them. Sure enough, North Carolina went inside on its first possession, finding the senior forward Isaiah Hicks for a short jump shot. What his players lacked in stature, Holtmann hoped they could compensate for with savvy. He relied heavily on the senior forward Andrew Chrabascz, who stepped in to draw an early offensive foul and drilled a couple of   to keep Butler involved. If there was one clear concern for North Carolina, it was Berry’s physical condition. He had rolled his right ankle earlier in the tournament and wore a walking boot this week. But he insisted that he felt fine, started against Butler and then thrived. Berry made his first three shots, two of them  . The Tar Heels sank nine of their first 11   attempts, and their lead swelled: to 10, to 13, to 16 and beyond. Everyone seemed to get involved for North Carolina. Consider the unlikely emergence of Maye, who cluttered the box score in the first half: a   14 points to go with nine rebounds in 10 minutes. North Carolina led by   at the half.