A Syrian migrant is to stand trial for attempted murder in Germany after allegedly throwing his three young children from a window and assaulting his wife with a saucepan because they refused “to accept the roles they had back home. ”[The    man and his family had been living courtesy of the German taxpayer in a refugee centre in the town of Lohmar, near Bonn. However, things took a violent turn when the father could not accept their new, Western way of life.  Following an argument with his wife, the man, who has not yet been named in German media, grabbed his three children  —   aged seven, five and one  —   and threw all three out of a   window. According to Welt, the eldest two suffered serious injuries including broken bones and fractures, but the youngest landed on his siblings and escaped with minor injuries. According to an official court statement, the trouble began in January when the man argued with his wife, who “in Germany no longer wished to accept the roles they had at home, and did not want to put up with everything he wanted anymore”. The migrant is reported to have beaten his wife with a saucepan, cutting her face. However, only after the children were injured, was he arrested and subsequently charged with three counts of attempted murder and grievous bodily harm. In May of this year, a report released by Germany’s Interior Ministry revealed a massive, migrant crime wave is surging across the country. The data showed that, without migrants considered, crime rates in Germany would have remained roughly static since 2014. Yet with them accounted for, the country recorded an extra 402, 741 crimes committed by migrants. Illegal immigrants and asylum seekers account for around 2. 5 per cent of Germany’s population, but were massively overrepresented. Amongst total offences,   accounted for 27. 6 per cent while illegal immigrants and asylum seekers accounted for 5. 7 per cent. Of homicides, the figures are 29. 3 per cent  .2 per cent, and of sexual assaults, the figures were 20. 5 per cent  .8 per cent.