“How much of this do we have to take?” Dan Golvach asked about the Republican Party’s longstanding refusal to enforce the nation’s immigration laws. [Golvach —  whose    son Spencer was stopped at a traffic light when an illegal alien pulled up next to him and shot him in the head —  explains that the reason he now backs Donald Trump for President is because of holidays spent at the cemetery, and the image of his “child’s deflated head in a casket” burned into his mind.  “Losing a child,” Golvach explains, is something one never really gets “acclimated to. I can tell you that it’s a very dark place of despair. ” And your life is ruined. [Golvach pauses] It’s just ruined. Trust me. Everything is damaged. Nothing has the same meaning anymore. There is no real joy in life. You just go through the motions because you’re not suicidal, and you just do things, but your life will never be particularly joyous again   …     Once this happens you’re going to have a very marginalized life at best. And thank you, United States government. I thought their first mandate was to protect us, but they’re just protecting their donors —   and it’s treason.  “Just a few days before. ” Golvach felt that picking Trump was a simple choice —  as all of the other candidates seem beholden to their   donors. “These GOP establishment leaders like Rubio,” Golvach explains, don’t want to “shackle their donors down to their pesky little immigration laws that were designed to keep us safe   …     [but which] would compromise their [donors’] cheap labor pool. ” These donors, Golvach explains, “think that it’s an archaic idea to have to have borders —  it’s from a bygone era to them. ” Sen. Marco Rubio’s history of pushing to open America’s borders, Golvach explains, is nothing short of “treason. ” Rubio and   politicians ought to “be brought up on charges for what they’ve done  …     and they should be punished for it,” he said. A Texas resident and constituent of Sen. Ted Cruz, Golvach similarly laments that Cruz does not seem “really all that interested in protecting us from illegal aliens. ” “[Gov.] John Kasich is the most traitorous of the bunch. What he’s proposing will end America,” Golvach says of Kasich’s desire to enact amnesty within his first 100 days in office. “John Kasich is the   puppet for [his donors]. He couldn’t care less about what negative effect it [amnesty] would have on American workers, what negative effect it would have on American families. There would be no more America —  he would finish us off. It’s just treason  …     I can’t stand him. And I guarantee you, find any other families of dead kids —  a father of a dead kid like me —  and they’d agree. “I still have nightmares,” Golvach says, taking a long pause to regain his voice. “When you have to go look at your child’s deflated head in a casket, it never gets —  it never gets out of your mind. And then you look at people like Marco Rubio talking up there, talking this nonsense [about immigration] your blood starts to boil, it really does. ” “Cradle to grave. What he loved. ” “Do I believe that it’s treason that they haven’t been moved to action? Oh, absolutely, it is treason,” Golvach says of Rubio, Kasich, and the GOP Establishment’s refusal to take action following the death of so many young Americans such as his son Spencer or San Francisco’s Kate Steinle. What they’re doing   …     [is] allowing oligarchs and plutocrats to come in and buy their way out of our laws   …     those pesky federal immigration laws that are designed to keep our families safe. What they are doing is treasonous in every regard   …     And these guys that are doing this   …     these politicians and these oligarchs —  know full well what’s coming over that border. They’re perfectly aware of it. They know the detrimental effect that it’s having on the country, but they do it anyway. Why do they do it? Because they can get a bigger yacht. That is treason. If that’s not treason, we should take [the word] out of the English language. We really should. That’s treasonous and in a perfect world they would be brought up on charges for what they’ve done because we have a Constitution, and they’re completely disregarding [it]. And they’re doing it for their own personal gain and that’s treason —  by any definition. It is treason, no question. And they should be punished for it. Golvach continues: “Instead, people like me and Laura [Wilkerson, a mother whose    son was tortured to death by an illegal alien ‘DREAMer’] we spend all of our holidays at the cemetery. I watched my son’s mother [Golvach trails off]  …      I watch her —  he was our only child. There’s not going to be any more Christmases, no grandchildren, no wedding, no nothing. This is what my country decided was best for me. And I used to tell that boy, Julie, I used to say: ‘Hey man, you can make it in this country, we’re a great country, and we have a Constitution, we’re a country of laws, we’ve got a lot of flexibility.’ What do I say to him now?” “Senior, 2008. He was the best son I could have ever had. I loved him more than life. ” Golvach takes a deep breath and continues: “And you think I don’t have a right to be mad at people like Marco Rubio? Bush? Obama? Clinton? I can’t stand them. I can’t stand them. I can’t stand what they’ve done. And I don’t think I’m the only one,” Golvach says —  pointing out how Trump has surged as the Republican Party’s frontrunner. “Donald Trump is not shackled to the oligarchs, the plutocrats and the donors —  even though he used to be one,” Golvach says. “Donald Trump has done more for this cause by speaking out the way he has than anybody. I don’t think that our leaders on either side of the party were very invested in speaking out about this unless it was just superficial or just to get votes. But I think Donald Trump has been pretty boisterous   …     I can only tell you that when he started weighing in on this, it gave us [the victims of illegal immigrant crime] hope that we would have never had —  there’s no question about that. ” Golvach explained that he has no false pretenses or illusions about Trump and his candidacy: “My support for Trump is not because I believe he’s any kind of political panacea that can fix all of our problems —  I certainly don’t,” Golvach says. “What I do know is that at least he is not shackled to the Koch brothers or Sheldon Adelson or people that have been very forthcoming in their opinions about open borders. They think that it’s an archaic idea to have to have borders —  it’s from a bygone era to them. ” Golvach explained that politicians like Cruz and Rubio, “have to tell the public that they’re against illegal immigration to get elected, but once they get elected —  they’re not about to do anything about illegal immigration because they’d be cut off by their donors and they wouldn’t be able to keep power. And that is the situation that they’re in right now. I think we’re living in a   republic. We’re a plutocracy. I feel that it’s become a joke. ” Golvach said that, “Rubio and the other GOP Establishment politicians are just continuously sending the message down there [to foreign nationals] of ‘Hey, come on up.’ And I know why they’re doing it, too. I know who their donors are. I know what their objectives are. And I don’t feel that Rubio’s donors —  any more than Jeb Bush’s donors —  or any of the rest are particularly invested in securing our border, and ending sanctuary cities or doing anything that would compromise their cheap labor pool   …     [And] it cost my son his life at 25 years old because they’re playing this game with us   …     The real question you have to ask yourself is: do you think for a minute that Marco Rubio’s backers and donors will want to compromise their cheap illegal labor force? That answer is no. ” Golvach explained that the GOP Establishment’s immigration priorities, championed most unabashedly by Kasich, would “finish off” America. “What kind of chaos do you think we would have at the border [under a President Kasich]?” Golvach asks —   slamming Kasich’s proclaimed to desire to grant amnesty within the first 100 days of his   Presidency. That is a treasonous idea. It is not only the destruction of the Republican Party —  it is the destruction of the county. I don’t know if he has any kids, but if he thinks this way —  his kids should be made to live down on the border —  in a border state. For him to say that [i. e. amnesty within 100 days] —  what you’ve just done is effectively erased our borders, which means we are no longer a country. He’ll annex us into the third world. He is the worst. This is all part of the North American Union —  that’s what the business people want. We are a plutocracy, we have oligarchs calling the shots and John Kasich is part of the GOP establishment. “I’ve supported the Republican Party my whole life,” Golvach said, elaborating on his indictment of the Republican Party. “Texas is a Republican state and I can guarantee you that none of the Republicans in Texas —   in spite of what they say —   are really interested. I don’t believe Ted Cruz is really all that interested in protecting us from illegal aliens. ” “I think that Ted Cruz is ambiguous on this. Frankly some of his wife’s associations have been a bit bothersome to me,” Golvach adds. “I don’t understand Ted Cruz —  he wants to increase the   [  visa program]. Why? We’ve got 95 million people out of work —  that’s the mantra that you hear on conservative radio everyday —  “ Golvach cuts himself off. “I’m sorry,” he says. “I get kind of riled up I guess about this. ” Clearly   on policy and candidates’ positions on various issues —  Golvach continues, highlighting Heidi Cruz’s former role on the Council on Foreign Relations —  pointing specifically to her having served on the task force which crafted a report entitled, “Building a North American Community. ” “That doesn’t sound very   to me,” Golvach says referring to her report, “And I think again those are people that have decided that sovereignty and borders are an archaic idea. And that most Americans don’t think that. These politicians —  they can act and talk really tough on the border. [But] what I’ve seen though on the state level —  and I’m sure it’s a microcosm of what happens on the big level —   is there is a coordinated effort to play hot potato, but nobody really wants to do anything about this because the donor class isn’t going to allow it. ” When asked if he had a message for voters in upcoming Republican primary elections such as those in Ohio or Florida, Golvach said: “If you really want to know the truth about a politician, you need to look at his donors. Don’t listen to their rhetoric because they lie on cue. Look at their donors and look at their votes. That will tell you pretty much what you need to know. If you have a Republican that’s being backed by Sheldon Adelson or someone like that  …     they can pass all of the immigration legislation they want, I can assure you they are not going to really address this problem because their owners aren’t going to allow them to and it’s as simple as that because we are a plutocracy. ” People frame this as an immigration debate, but immigrants are people who come in on your terms and abide by your laws. When they come in on their terms and abide by their own laws they’re not immigrants, they’re invaders. That’s what an invasion is. And we’re sitting here talking about the compassion we should have for these people, but they don’t care at all about what’s happening to Americans. You don’t care that wages are being destroyed, that people are being murdered or raped, or the hospitals are being overloaded and overwhelmed, and the school system’s being gutted. We don’t hear anything about that. [Instead we hear about] just all those poor, poor people. And we can’t —  we’re a life raft. Every life raft has a capacity and then it sinks. And I just —   it’s cost me my son, you know.   “Spencer’s final gig. December, 2014. ” When asked if Marco Rubio had ever reached out to his family, Golvach made clear that politicians are rarely genuinely interested in making heard the voices of the American victims of illegal alien crime. “No, no,” Rubio has never reached out to him, Golvach says: And most politicians who have, Julie, it’s just been for a  . I had Mike McCaul —  do you know who Mike McCaul is? I had Mike McCaul last year March 3, call me up and he was sponsoring this bill ‘Secure the Borders First’ Act, and that doesn’t sound very ambiguous, but I read some —  trying to incorporate some credible thinking —  I read what Sen. Sessions had to say about it and   …     [Sessions had] some pretty valid criticisms, but I listened to him [McCaul] anyway. And he told me: ‘I’m going to come, we’re going to do a press conference tomorrow, I’m flying down to Austin. We’re going to get together. We’re going to do this. We’re going to take this picture, and we’re going to do something about it.’ And he says, ‘Well I got to go vote now.’ And he hung up and 10 minutes later he was on the House floor voting for Obama’s amnesty. That’s treason to me. He just lied to me and, of course, when his campaign called later that day I told them what they could do with themselves. I’m sick of it, I’m tired of it. I played by the rules my whole life, I’m about to send a big fat check to the I. R. S. and I send taxes to Texas. And what did I get for it? You know, they’ll fall all over themselves for making sure they spend $67, 000 on each illegal kid that’s over here, which twice than what my son could make working two jobs, but they sure didn’t come and help pay for the funeral. They didn’t come and do anything for me. All they do is take money from me. So I have to pay for the people that killed my son. You think I’m mad? Would you be mad? Golvach continues, suggesting that our open borders immigration policies have exposed innocent, young Americans to dangers not unlike those facing our soldiers in hostile,   lands: “We’re being told by the media and everybody else [about] ISIS and the Muslim Brotherhood —  we need to be getting our troops over there, and going to war, and blah, blah, blah, and on they go. But they gloss right over the fact that we keep our southern border wide open. And if you really want to see what beheadings and dismemberment look like, you need go no further than the border. In fact, you actually can come here in the United States because my son got his brains blown out in my neighborhood —  not in Iraq, not in Afghanistan. ” Golvach explained that he does not want a President who will “cherry pick” enforcement laws, but rather, he wants a President who will —  once again —  make the Republican Party the Party of law and order —   who will put the interests of America and her citizenry first by enforcing the immigration laws already on the books. Golvach’s desire seems reflected in previous declarations by Trump, who has pledged: “After my inauguration, for the first time in decades, Americans will wake up in a country where their immigration laws are enforced. ” Golvach warns that unless we have a President who will enforce the laws on the books, innocent Americans will continue to be victimized: “Those laws were designed to protect us, so if we’re going to cherry pick those laws then expect that someone you love will be sitting at a red light, and get their brains blown out   …     or someone you love will get beaten and set on fire like [18 year old] Josh Wilkerson was. ” “Holidays spent here. What happens when your government refuses to do their job. ” “That’s the only truth I have to tell,” Golvach says, “I talk to the media because that’s the only thing I can think to do besides shout it from the rooftops and maybe someone will listen. ” 