Liverpool, U. K.  —   I’m in Liverpool this week, and when I went to bed last night just before midnight U. K. time (having earlier heard Osmond brother Merrill in a terrific concert at the famous Cavern Club) it appeared that Brits would be staying IN the European Union, as pollsters were universally predicting a   victory for those advocating staying.[ By the time I got up a little after 6 a. m. the news was already rocking the world  —   the U. K. voted to get OUT of the EU by the very   margin by which they were predicted to lose. It can’t be argued that it was decided by a small sampling  —   a huge 72 percent of the Brits voted. A little while later in the morning, Prime Minister David Cameron announced his resignation. The stock markets around the world plunged, and the British pound dropped by its greatest dip in 40 years. (Good thing I brought some U. S. currency to trade!) Cameron is the leader of the Conservative Party, but it was members of the Conservative Party who pushed for withdrawal. Cameron sided with the Labour Party and the institutions of government and finance. The majority of the people, including a significant number of Labour Party people, voted to get OUT. Why does this matter to YOU in the U. S. A? Because it is a foreshadowing of what will likely happen in November. Those who lead the political and financial institutions will push strongly that we “go along” our path and elect “Hellary” Clinton. There will be a large number (I believe a majority) who in spite of the uncertainty of specific policies, will vote to kick the political and financial institutions in their wide and arrogant  . The votes in the U. K. to get OUT of the EU were those of workers tired of seeing their jobs taken by immigrants who didn’t share the British tradition, culture and spirit. Many of our neighbors across the pond have felt they were losing their country and culture and that unrestricted immigration was changing their nation. It didn’t help that those wanting to stay in the EU branded the “out” group as racists or xenophobes. It was that many long time subjects of the British empire felt that their country was being lost to those who came to claim “free” benefits, jobs and education, but who also wanted to ignore what made the U. K. a great country and economy: its commitment to a moral authority and the rule of law and order. Sound familiar? This debate has deeply divided the U. K. just as America has become deeply divided over essentially the same issues of nationalism versus globalism. I’ve been speaking out about this for years  —   that America can afford to welcome immigrants who want to assimilate into America, but CANNOT afford to lose its culture and country to those who have no intention of speaking English, accepting the American Constitution of fundamental rights of the individual and of private property, and the moral authority based on the   tradition. Some in the ruling Conservative Party, like Cameron, have become more of the “house cats” of the ruling class. They defended   unbridled immigration policies and the siren song of globalism. Blue collar workers and some of the deeply traditional and patriotic British leaders (like Nigel Farage and former London Mayor Boris Johnson) led a revolt against the trend and a move toward a return to a unique and independent United Kingdom. There is much   and panic in the halls of government and finance in the U. K. The truth is, no one really knows what will be the result of the U. K. getting out of the EU. But our friends the Brits determined that what they DID know was that if things kept on the way they were going, their grandchildren would live in a U. K. that wouldn’t resemble the one they loved and lived in. Listen carefully to the U. S. politicians who speak of doom and gloom about the British vote. Expect some of the GOP like Paul Ryan and other institutionalists tied to the financial empires to join with Democrats to call the vote “racist,   and dangerous. ” And watch them in November when they get their own comeuppance by an American people tired of watching their jobs disappear to other countries, the middle class getting   and losing net worth while the globalist financiers made billions anyway, and while the best answers from the   conservative leaders were slashing Social Security and Medicare, gutting the basic constitutional rights of citizens to protect their jobs and their property, and pretending that there is no moral authority for our government. A big shock in the U. K. a big lesson and something to watch for in the United States.