Hundreds of disgruntled fans walked out of Amy Schumer’s standup show in Tampa, Florida after the comedy star ripped Donald Trump, calling him an “orange,      monster. ”[According to the Tampa Bay Times, about 200 people were heard booing Schumer as her standup comedy turned to political commentary. At one point she invited a Trump supporter on to the stage and asked him why he supports the Republican presidential nominee.  “Do you get worried at all with how impulsive he is,” Schumer asked, “that he gets so fired up from Saturday Night Live doing a skit on him? Do you worry he’ll be impulsive and get us in a lot of f —  ing trouble we can’t get out of?” After dismissing the audience member from the stage, Schumer asked survivors of sexual assault in the crowd to stand. Schumer, who’s known for her   raunchy brand of comedy, continued to rip Trump over lewd remarks he made about women in a    conversation in 2005 with former Access Hollywood anchor Billy Bush. “I can’t imagine looking at my little niece, who’s two and a half, and saying, ‘This is our president, he wants to finger his daughter,’” Schumer joked. Moments later, loud boos began to rang out after Schumer began to explain to the audience why she “likes Hillary. ” Schumer, seemingly shaken and upset over heckling crowd members, said, “just so you know, from now on, if you yell out, you’re going to get thrown out. ” The boos grew louder, and Schumer responded by instructing audience members to “point to the people booing. ” Schumer’s standup soon turned to gun control, as she recounted the incident involving a deadly shooting in Louisiana during the opening for her movie Train Wreck last year, where a gunman opened fire, killing two young women, Mayci Breaux and Jillian Johnson. Not shying away from her dogged support for Hillary Clinton, a large portion of Schumer’s routine covered an   story about the time she performed standup at the former secretary of state’s birthday party. Before her performance Sunday, Schumer was seen participating in a voter registration drive. Letting voters lean on her while they update their voter registration! #ImWithHer pic. twitter.   —   Hillary for Florida (@HillaryforFL) October 16, 2016,  Last month Schumer joined the growing list of celebrities to vow to leave the U. S. should Trump win the election in November. “My act will change because I will need to learn to speak Spanish,” she said during an appearance on BBC’s Newsnight. “Because I will move to Spain or somewhere. It’s beyond my comprehension if Trump won. It’s just too crazy. ” Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter @jeromeehudson