During a radio interview on Sunday, comic legend Jackie Mason blasted Mitt Romney for his reported interest in serving as Secretary of State after repeatedly criticizing   Donald Trump during the recent presidential campaign. [Stated Mason: “Can you imagine going to a guy’s office and calling him abusive names for a half an hour and then saying, ‘By the way, you’ve got a job for me? I’m looking for something to do for a living. I would do anything if you could help me. ’”  Mason was speaking during his regular segment on “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio,” this reporter’s Sunday night talk radio program broadcast on New York’s AM 970 The Answer and NewsTalk 990 AM. Listen to the full audio here: Here is a partial transcript of Mason’s routine on Romney: This is unbelievable to me. Because Romney only a few weeks ago, like you say, called him the most vicious names I’ve ever heard. You would never know that Trump wasn’t running away with his furniture or robbing his car or maybe grabbed him by the throat and maybe was choking him or something. You would never imagine that there was any excuse for Romney, who was not in the race, to all of the sudden blast Trump the way he did and start calling him all of these ugly, abusive, vicious names for no reason and out of nowhere.   …     And after he finishes with that whole speech he starts looking for a job. Can you imagine going to a guy’s office and calling him abusive names for a half an hour and then saying, “By the way, you’ve got a job for me? I’m looking for something to do for a living. I would do anything if you could help me. ” First, he says that this man (Trump) is so dangerous that he would destroy the country if he became president. Now you want to work for him? Which means you want to help him. You want to help him do what? Destroy the country? All of the sudden the country doesn’t count? You don’t care if it’s destroyed as long as you can get a job from him? Not only that but then he came back to him for a dinner. Are you that   that you have to have dinner with a person who you think is about to destroy America? And now you want to work for him. You’re going to take orders from him. You’re going to take orders from a person that you could swear is the most dangerous thing in this country. So how dangerous are you going to be if you are going to help him? It’s dangerous if he does it, but if you help him all of the sudden it’s a wonderful thing to do. Romney was one of Trump’s strongest GOP critics in recent months. During a speech last March, Romney stated, “Donald Trump is a phony, a fraud. His promises are as worthless as a degree from Trump University. He’s playing the American public for suckers: He gets a free ride to the White House and all we get is a lousy hat. ” In June, Romney told CNN of Trump, “Presidents have an impact on the nature of our nation.   racism,   bigotry,   misogyny, all these things are extraordinarily dangerous to the heart and character of America. ” Mason, meanwhile, took aim at Romney’s tone and message delivery, calling the politician “the most boring presidential candidate in the history of this country. ” Mason added: He could actually teach boredom in schools. That’s how boring he is.   …     When he talked, nothing came out. Everything he said was so flat whether it was a bar mitzvah or a funeral it all sounds the same.   …     Anytime you wanted to go to sleep he would be more effective than any pill. No sleeping pill that would put you to sleep faster than Romney. Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio. ” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.