Tuesday on CNN’s “New Day,” Sen. Jeff Sessions ( ) a supporter of Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump, was asked to offer his thoughts on the Clinton Foundation and any possible wrongdoing by Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton while she served as secretary of state related to the foundation.  Sessions, a former U. S. attorney and a former attorney general for the state of Alabama, told   Alyson Camerota that it was his view there are questions to be asked about the foundation and why certain entities would give money to it. If in fact these donations helped certain leaders of nations gain access to Clinton, then it was wrong. “When people think the way that you gain entrée to give to this foundation, why are these people giving money to the foundation?” Sessions said. “Why are these people that are in countries that are very poor giving millions of dollars even hundreds of millions of dollars to a foundation that doesn’t benefit them in any direct way or the people in their country? They’re doing it to gain access, and you cannot pay for access   …     This last deal was that this prince asked in the regular order to get access to Hillary Clinton and meet with her and it was turned down. The foundation called and said, in fact, that he’s given $32 million. And they immediately got access. That’s wrong. ” Sessions went on to say things kept coming out and that they warrant further investigation despite Camerota suggesting any call for a further investigation would call into question FBI Director James Comey’s judgment. “What I am saying is the evidence indicates to me that this should be fully investigated. I cannot say that Mr. Comey has not completed a full investigation, but it seems like he has not. And I think there is a cloud over this and just because he might conclude there is not a chargeable offense does not indicate that there is no wrongdoing. This is not healthy. You do not use the Secretary of State position to benefit your private foundation. ” Follow Jeff Poor on Twitter @jeff_poor