New York rapper Fat Joe posted a pointed tweet Friday criticizing San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick’s method of protesting police brutality, calling it a disrespectful display against United States soldiers. [“Having thout about it, I ain’t with protesting the #NationalAnthem. Soldiers died fighting 4 our freedom not cops. Why disrepsected them? [sic]” Fat Joe wrote in a tweet that has since been deleted.  Tweeted and Deleted: #FatJoe speaks pic. twitter.   —   Tha Celebritea News (@thacelebritea) September 9, 2016,  Reacting to the rapper’s tweet, one commenter said, “Just proves that he didn’t think long enough. ” Another Twitter user chided Fat Joe for weighing in on the controversy, even though he’s not black: “Boy not even black. ” The rapper posted what appeared to be a   tweet on Friday: In order to create change, people must lead with actions, opposed to creating reactions.  —   FAT JOE (@fatjoe) September 9, 2016,  The San Francisco 49ers quarterback has been embroiled by controversy in his protest against police brutality, choosing not to stand during the singing of “The   Banner” at NFL games. Criticism of the   ’s motives intensified after Kaepernick was caught on camera wearing “pig cop” socks at 49ers events. He has since apologized for wearing the socks. Last week,   writer John Legend shared his thoughts on the   protest, calling “The   Banner” a “weak song. ” “My vote is for America the Beautiful. Star spangled banner is a weak song anyway. And then you read this,” the Grammy winning singer tweeted. My vote is for America the Beautiful. Star spangled banner is a weak song anyway. And then you read this  …     https:  .   —   John Legend (@johnlegend) August 30, 2016,  More NFL players are expected to join Kaepernick in protest, as Denver Broncos linebacker Brandon Marshall took a knee during the singing of the National Anthem during Thursday’s NFL opener. In an appearance Friday on Fox and Friends, future NBA Hall of Famer Shaquille O’Neal said he would never take a knee during the national anthem. “I don’t really have a say on it, but I would never do that. My father was a military man, and you know, he protected this country,” he said. “Uncles are in law enforcement, you know, they go out and work hard every day. Just, (there are) other ways to get your point across. ” NFL legend Jerry Rice shared a similar sentiment, asking Kaepernick not to “disrespect the flag. ” “All lives matter,” Rice tweeted last Monday. “So much going on in this world today. Can we all just get along! Colin, I respect your stance but don’t disrespect the flag. ” All lives matter. So much going on in this world today. Can we all just get along! Colin, I respect your stance but don’t disrespect the Flag.  —   Jerry Rice (@JerryRice) August 30, 2016,    Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @JeromeEHudson