One woman is dead and four others were wounded in two separate shooting incidents in Austin, Texas. The first shooting occurred in the heart of the city’s famous 6th Street entertainment district while the second occurred a few blocks away. [Shortly after 2 a. m. one suspect began firing a gun into the crowd following a disturbance. One woman was killed in this shooting. Four others were wounded, KXAN NBC reported in Austin. The shooting occurred on 6th Street at San Jacinto.  The second shooting took place a few blocks away in a parking garage located in the 800 block of Trinity. The suspect in this shooting was allegedly engaging in an aggravated robbery and fired at his   victim. That suspect was wrestled to the ground and his gun was taken from him. Police arrived and arrested the suspect. Because of the close proximity of the two separate shooting incidents both in terms of timing and geography, police initially thought they were dealing with an active shooter situation. They later determined the two incidents were unrelated. The deceased woman in the first shooting was reported to be in her 20s. The other victims were described as women in their 30s. Three wounded women were transported to UMCB hospital for treatment with serious but not   injuries, emergency medical staff told KXAN. The fourth wounded person was not described and refused medical attention. The suspect in this shooting is still at large and police are conducting an investigation. No description of the suspect was released by the police. KXAN reported the following statement from Austin Police Chief Art Acevedo: On behalf of the Austin Police Department we wish to extend our deepest condolences to the family and friends of the young woman who lost her life to this senseless act of violence and wishes for a speedy recovery to the individuals wounded  …     Austin, Texas is one of our nation’s safest cities and the community we serve partners with APD to stand up for our neighbors and friends and to bring those that would do us harm to justice. This sensors and tragic incident will be no exception. Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas. He is a founding member of the Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX.  