Arizona Sheriff Joe Arpaio will direct security at one of Donald Trump’s three Arizona rallies on Saturday. [“Here I’m gonna be kinda wearing two hats  —   in charge of the security there in the town and also participating, I would imagine, with Trump in the rally, so it makes it interesting,” Arpaio told Politico. It “is going to be a lot of fun taking care of business there. ”  Arpaio endorsed Trump in January. His support is valuable because he is cheered by Americans who support the enforcement of immigration laws. That goal has been championed by Trump, who is trying to extend his lead over Sen. Tex Cruz and to win a decisive 1, 237 delegates before the June GOP convention in Cleveland. The state’s 58 delegates will be allocated at the primary on Tuesday, March 22. Trump will hold rallies at the Phoenix Convention Center and in Fountain Park in Fountain Hills on Saturday morning, and will hold another rally in Tuscon on Saturday afternoon.  Arpaio lives in Fountain Hills. The rallies will be picketed by   opponents of immigration reform. Sorry @realDonaldTrump but AZ is already passed its quota for racist politicians. #UnitedAgainstHate #NoMasTrumpadas https:  .   —   Puente Arizona (@PuenteAZ) March 14, 2016,  Arpaio is backing Trump because “I just had a gut feeling that he was different, and, ah, [is] my type of guy,” he told National Public Radio. “When you have somebody that makes promises to millions of people to do something, I think the personality alone will make you do it,” he said. Trump is already being backed by former Arizona Gov. Jan. Brewer. Arpaio is regularly jeered by progressives, business groups, and ethnic lobbies who want to minimize enforcement of the nation’s popular border laws. Trump is leading the polls in the state.  Thank you   I love you! #MakeAmericaGreatAgain #Trump2016 pic. twitter.   —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 18, 2016,  The state has been at the center of immigration disputes for more than a decade.  A prestigious economic analysis commissioned by the Wall Street Journal and released in February showed that Arizona’s 2004   immigration reform raised employees’ salaries and farmers’ productivity in the state, and has also cut welfare, medical, prison, and housing costs paid by state taxpayers.  The state’s population of roughly 450, 000 illegals gradually dropped by roughly 180, 000 people from 2007 to 2012, the WSJ reported. Because of the 40 percent drop in illegal labor, the wages earned by Americans rose significantly, said the analysis by Moody’s Analytics. The median income of   whites who did manage to get jobs rose about 6% during that period, the economists estimate   …     wages rose about 15% for Arizona farmworkers and about 10% for construction between 2010 and 2014   …     Some employers say their need for workers has increased since then, leading them to boost wages more rapidly and crimping their ability to expand   …     graduates [at a federal   center] now often mull two or three jobs offers from construction firms and occasionally start at $14. 65 an hour instead of $10   …      At DTR Landscape Development LLC, the firm’s president, Dick Roberts, says he has increased his starting wage by 60% to $14. 50 an hour because he is having trouble finding reliable workers. Read more about the Arizona reform here.  