Actor Bryan Cranston says he will “definitely move” out of the United States if Republican Donald Trump wins the presidential election. [“Absolutely,” Cranston told The Bestseller Experiment podcast when asked if he’d take an extended vacation to Vancouver if Trump wins. “I would definitely move. It’s not real to me that that would happen. I hope to God it won’t. ”  “It wouldn’t be a vacation,” the Breaking Bad star added. “I’d be an expatriate. ” Cranston did concede that a Trump presidency would capture the imagination of writers and filmmakers. “There will be books written, movies made,” he said. “I’m telling you, there will be theatrical productions about Donald Trump because of the anomaly that he presented. ” The Emmy   actor says it would be hard for him to successfully portray Trump on film. “For me to play someone like Donald Trump, I would first need to have some time to calm down from him because I do have a judgment of him, and it’s virtually impossible to play someone that you have a judgment on, because then you’re slanted,” Cranston said. “I need to come at it from a place of neutrality so that I can build a character and justify what I say, what I do, at all times. It’s hard for me to imagine trying to justify what this man has said and done. ” A constant critic of the GOP White House hopeful, Cranston has called Trump a “narcissist” who lacks the “qualities we want in a president. ” In a promo for an upcoming appearance on BBC’s Newsnight, Cranston predicted Trump will lose the presidential election. “I don’t think he’s going to win,” Cranston said. “And I hope that when he loses, he would do everyone a huge favor if he just went away. ” TONIGHT: ”Trump is a classic tragic Shakespearean character”  —   #BreakingBad’s @BryanCranston tells us what he thinks of Donald Trump pic. twitter.   —   BBC Newsnight (@BBCNewsnight) October 31, 2016,  Cranston is the latest celebrity to vow to leave the country if Trump is elected. Other stars who have made similar promises include Miley Cyrus, Whoopi Goldberg, Samuel L. Jackson and Cher.   Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson