Since   Donald Trump was elected over Democrat nominee Hillary Clinton, the mainstream media have used alleged hate crime reports to drum up hysteria over issues like Islamophobia, homophobia, immigration, and race relations. [The mainstream media has refused to mention that hate crime allegations carry an increasing possibility of being faked in an era of social media fame and reactionary crowdfunding, as evidenced in a recent report by Breitbart Tech Editor Milo Yiannopoulos, which found that more than 100 hoaxed hate crimes had occurred just in the last decade.  Breitbart Texas has compiled a list of some of the most recent hate hoaxes that have occurred around the 2016 Election. Police: Muslim Student ‘Fabricated’ Muslim   by Trump Supporters, After a Muslim student at the University of Louisiana at Lafayette (ULL) claimed that her hijab and wallet were stolen by two   Donald Trump supporters, police announced the claim was fabricated. Students Face Disciplinary Action After Hoaxing ‘KKK’ Vandalism, Two Williams College students are now facing disciplinary action after hoaxing vandalism which appeared to be Ku Klux Klan inspired days after the 2016 Election. Student Charged for Claiming Rock Attack by Trump Fans, A black, female Bowling Green State University student allegedly fabricated a hate crime story about white, male   Donald Trump supporters attacking her on campus and is now being charged for faking a police report. Another Student Fakes Mugging Claim by Trump Fans, Another student at Bowling Green State University (BGSU) has hoaxed a racist hate crime attack, local police have confirmed. Student Fakes   Notes from Trump Fan, A North Park University student fabricated a story where she claimed that   Donald Trump supporters had sent her “hateful” notes and emails following the 2016 Election, local police confirmed. Mississippi Students Refute Hate Crime Claims Touted By NAACP, After the Mississippi NAACP made accusations that a black high school student had a noose thrown around his neck by white students, others are now speaking out refuting the broad claims of racism. Woman Faked Sex Assault Claim Because She Was ‘Distraught’ Over Election, A woman who posted to her Facebook page that she had been sexually assaulted actually fabricated the story because she was “distraught over the recent election,” police confirmed. Muslim Woman Admits Faking Knife Attack Hate Crime in New York City, On Thursday, a Muslim woman in New York City claimed she was attacked by a white male who called her a terrorist and slashed her cheek with a knife before running away. On Friday, police announced the   unnamed    slashed her own cheek, giving herself a   cut, and invented the hate crime story. Another Fake ‘Hate Crime’: Transgender Student Admits Attack Was Hoax, On March 3, a transgender student at a California middle school claimed he was attacked, beaten, and sexually molested by other students in a school bathroom. Only a day later the student admitted that the claimed attack never happened. CAIR Calls in Feds Over Possible   Against  …     Air Conditioning Unit, The Council on American Islamic Relations (CAIR) —  a group founded by members of the Muslim Brotherhood and designated as a terrorist organization in the UAE —  is concerned that damage to a Manassas, VA mosque’s air conditioning unit is a result of a possible   “bias motive,” the group said in two separate press releases from its national branch this week. Police: Gay YouTuber Faked Hate Crime Attack on Himself, Popular homosexual YouTuber Calum McSwiggan reportedly faked an alleged hate crime attack on himself in West Hollywood on Monday, according to the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department. Albany University Expels Women Charged with Fabricating ‘Hate Crime’ Three women accused of falsely claiming they were victims of racial abuse and physical assault have been expelled from Albany University and will now face criminal charges. CAIR Claims ‘Hate’ Crime When Muslim Youths Harass Woman, Then Get Slammed by Boyfriend, Two Muslim youths were injured outside a New York mosque, but police have rejected the incident as a “bias crime” because the two were slammed by a man after they harassed his girlfriend, officials say. Man Admits Lying About ‘Trump Country Lynching’ Hate Crime Report, An   man in Malden, Massachusetts has now admitted that he fabricated a hate crime report when he claimed two white men accosted him, saying the U. S. is now “Trump country,” and threatened to lynch him. Texas Islamic Center Fire Appears Not to be a Hate Crime, An arrest was announced at 6 p. m. Monday night at the Houston Fire Department Arson Headquarters in connection with the February 13th Quba Islamic Institute fire. Darryl Ferguson, age 55 of Houston, has been charged with arson. It appears the fire is not a hate crime. Ferguson told reporters at the police station that he was just trying to keep warm and the fire was an accident. John Binder is a contributor for Breitbart Texas. Follow him on Twitter at @JxhnBinder.