A man who has described himself as “Julian Assange’s Personal Internet Service” stood outside of the Ecuadorian Embassy in London on Wednesday, shouting news headlines to WikiLeaks editor Julian Assange after his internet was cut. [Dressed in a suit and wearing a sign reading, “Julian Assange’s personal internet service,” Bobby Mair shouted news headlines using a megaphone across the street from Assange’s current location at the Ecuadorian Embassy.  In a video on Twitter, Mair can be seen shouting about “Ched Evans” before giving Assange the temperature of his hometown, Townsville, in Queensland, Australia. Keeping Julian Assange up to date @wikileaks pic. twitter.   —   Bobby Mair (@BobbyMair) October 19, 2016,  “In your hometown right now of Townsville, it’s like 32 degrees,” shouted Mair. “Maybe some of your childhood friends are having a nice day. Maybe you could write them a letter. ” Ecuador confirmed on Wednesday that they had limited Julian Assange’s internet access, while WikiLeaks claimed that U. S. Secretary of State John Kerry pressured the country’s government to do so. Following the release of thousands of leaked emails from Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton and the Democratic National Committee, WikiLeaks have released batches of emails from Clinton’s campaign chairman, John Podesta. In the leaked Podesta emails, several controversies have been revealed, including how the Clinton Campaign disregarded shootings that didn’t fit their gun control narrative, were disappointed that the San Bernadino shooter wasn’t white, and invited top mainstream media reporters to dine at their houses prior to Clinton’s campaign launch. On Friday, John Podesta’s Twitter diss of Julian Assange backfired after he mocked the food Assange was likely eating as opposed to the lobster risotto he was enjoying. “I bet the lobster risotto is better than the food at the Ecuadorian Embassy,” posted Podesta on Twitter, along with a picture of some chefs preparing the dish. “Yes, we get it,” replied Assange. “The elite eat better than the peasants they abuse. ” Charlie Nash is a reporter for Breitbart Tech. You can follow him on Twitter @MrNashington or like his page at Facebook.