Tuesday on CNN’s “Legal View,” after giving a speech at the European Union parliament, UK Independence Party (UKIP) leader Nigel Farage said the Brexit vote was necessary because the United Kingdom, “literally” has “lost our sovereignty, lost our borders,” and the “nonsense” going on in the financial markets will stabilize. [He said, “I think for the United Kingdom, I think Trump will be better for us than Barack Obama has been, no doubt. ”  “They were abusing me. twice, the president of the parliament had to cease proceedings,” Farage continued. “What I said to them, can we be grown up about this? Can we talk about trade deals? They all laughed and giggled. That’s when I said, the trouble of you people is, none of you have ever had a proper job, which wasn’t wrong  …    They called me all the names under the sun. I teased them that they are basically a bunch of bureaucrats that don’t have a proper job. ” He added, “What they tried to do is build a political union without consent. I have been in there to fight against it. Finally, a member said, we wish to succeed. They didn’t like it much. ” On the panic in the finical markets after the Brexit vote, Farage said, “Sterling is marginally lower than February so can we stop this nonsense about the market. The pound has been in a bear market since July, 2014, fact. Now, American viewers, imagine if NAFTA was a political union. Imagine if a court in Mexico could overrule, and imagine if you had free movement of people with Mexico. How would you feel? You wouldn’t like it. What we are doing in the U. K. we are reasserting our Democratic rights and in terms of business and trade, we’ll go on trading. ” When asked about Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump He continued, “Donald Trump dares to talk about things other people want to brush under the carpet. What Mr. Trump is doing in America is very different than what I am trying to do in the United Kingdom. My problem in politics is far greater than Donald Trump’s. We literally have lost our sovereignty, lost our borders  …    The problem you have in the U. S. is illegal immigration. our problem is legal immigration to half a billion people. He continued, “I think for the United Kingdom, I think Trump will be better for us than Barack Obama has been, no doubt. ” He added, “There is nothing on earth could persuade me ever to vote for Hillary Clinton. Absolutely not. She represents the political elite. It is almost as if she feels she has a divine right to have that job. ” Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNEN