Former Secret Service officer and author of Crisis of Character, Gary J. Byrne, joined Breitbart News Daily SiriusXM host Alex Marlow on Friday to discuss his planned defamation lawsuit “against his detractors,” including “Media Matters for America and David Brock,” as reported by the New York Post. [Byrne “has sent notices to Media Matters for America and David Brock informing them that he intends to file suit,” according to the report.  “When the book first came out,” Byrne told Marlow, “David Brock and Media Matters called me a smear merchant, implying that my book is not true and that I’m lying  —   which is not true. ” “Everything in the book is true,” said Byrne. He added, “I want to set the record straight. And since I can’t get on mainstream media to set the record straight, I’m going to have to do it in court. ” Byrne previously discussed his book on Breitbart News Daily: “Really, if you’re honest with yourself and you pay attention to some of the politics that goes on, you’ve seen this yourself,” said Byrne. “She never displays any kind of leadership. I cite many examples in my book where she gets so angry, she has the people that work for her, they’re terrified of her. ” He recounted a story from Crisis of Character about “these three women who came up from Arkansas with her. They knew the Clintons. The one lady worked with her at the Rose Law Firm, and she knew that Mrs. Clinton’s anger became so ferocious that she immediately started demanding people would get fired. ” “In the incident that I’m talking about, these women made a mistake ordering some stationery, and I saw them talking about it,” he continued. “They really looked like they were afraid of something. I thought something was wrong, somebody was sick. And they explained to me what happened, that they had inadvertently allowed an intern to order some stationery, and the girl had made a mistake, so they had tens of thousands of copies of these invitations to the White House that were worth a lot of money, that were useless. And they weren’t worried about the wasted taxpayer dollars. They were worried about who was gonna tell Hillary Clinton because they knew somebody was getting fired and sent back to Arkansas. ” “That’s just one example of her incredible anger toward people,” said Byrne. “She got so angry one time, she hit a Secret Service agent in the back of the head with a bible, sitting in a limousine. You just can’t explain that away. And when you put that together with what we’ve seen today, she is completely inept when it comes to leadership. ” More information on Byrne’s official notice to Brock and Media Matters may be found at the New York Post: The letter requests Brock and Media Matters to “hold” all records and communications associated with their communications regarding Byrne  —   including “Any communication( s) between David Brock and The Honorable Hillary Rodham Clinton” regarding the former Secret Service officer, suggesting there might be collusion between the campaign and her defenders. It also demands Brock “immediately and publicly retract any statement or inference by yourself   Media Matters to the effect that Officer Byrne was not fully truthful in recounting within ‘Crisis of Character’ details from any previous testimony. ” Additionally, Byrne’s attorney demanded a retraction for “the utterly false statement( s) that Officer Byrne was not in close proximity to President William Jefferson Clinton. ” His lawyer states that “some of our best witnesses to such immediacy are George Stephanopoulos, John Podesta, Leon Panetta, Bruce Lindsey, Hillary Rodham Clinton and President Clinton himself  —   who appear to have already confirmed   …     under oath   …     the regular proximity of Officer Byrne to the President for many years. ” Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00 a. m. to 9:00 a. m. Eastern. LISTEN: 