WASHINGTON  —   Senator Jeff Sessions,   Donald J. Trump’s nominee for attorney general, pledged on Tuesday to “say no” to Mr. Trump if he tries to go beyond the law, and he spoke out against torture, a ban on Muslim immigration and other ideas that had been floated by Mr. Trump. Mr. Sessions, a deeply conservative Republican from Alabama who was an early Trump supporter, appears headed for confirmation after completing more than nine hours of testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee. Mr. Sessions and his allies had girded for a coordinated attack on his civil rights record, but Democrats tempered their criticism and Republicans mounted a   defense, describing him repeatedly as a man of integrity. In his two decades on Capitol Hill, Mr. Sessions has questioned whether the Constitution guarantees citizenship to anyone born in the United States, has said courts have interpreted the separation of church and state too broadly and has declared   marriage a threat to American culture. He also voted against reauthorizing the Violence Against Women Act. Much of the hearing focused on Mr. Sessions’s long record as a prosecutor and a senator, but Mr. Trump proved a dominant figure in absentia for much of the debate as Democrats sought to question the   by proxy. They asked whether Mr. Sessions supported Mr. Trump’s most controversial statements and questioned whether he had the independence to rein in the   Mr. Trump if he seeks to exceed his presidential authority. In his cool, Southern drawl, Mr. Sessions vowed repeatedly that he would, saying that an attorney general “cannot be a mere rubber stamp” for the president. “If an attorney general is asked to do something that’s plainly unlawful,” he said, “that person would have to resign ultimately before agreeing to execute a policy that the attorney general believes would be unlawful or unconstitutional. ” But he indicated that he did not believe he would reach that impasse. If he advises Mr. Trump that a policy is illegal, he said, “I am confident that he would” heed that advice. A Methodist, he also pledged to set aside his personal beliefs and aggressively enforce all federal laws  —   even in areas like abortion, gay rights and hate crimes where he has made his opposition well known. “I don’t think it would be hard for me to be impartial and enforce laws that I didn’t vote for,” he said. “I think I can separate my personal votes of maybe years ago from what my responsibilities is today. ” He was asked, for instance, about a law he opposed in the Senate making attacks based on sexual orientation a hate crime. “The law has been passed, the Congress has spoken, and you can be sure I will enforce it,” Mr. Sessions said. Many of Mr. Sessions’s answers appeared calculated to distance himself from some of Mr. Trump’s most contentious threats and pledges on the campaign trail. He said, for instance, that current law “absolutely” bans waterboarding and the use of other torture techniques against prisoners  —   even though Mr. Trump promised to reinstitute the practice and Mr. Sessions himself supported it for years. Asked about last week’s report by intelligence agencies that Russia tried to influence the American election, he said that “I have no reason to doubt that and no information that would indicate otherwise”  —   a sharp contrast from Mr. Trump’s weeks of skepticism. Mr. Trump last week called the uproar over Russia’s role a “political witch hunt. ” He said he also opposed creating a registry of American Muslims or banning Muslim immigrants, as Mr. Trump proposed repeatedly during the campaign in response to terrorist attacks. “I have no belief and do not support the idea that Muslims as a religious group should be denied admission to the United States,” Mr. Sessions said. But he said he supported using “extreme vetting” of immigrants that might take into account religious beliefs  —   an idea Mr. Trump now appears to have endorsed. Mr. Sessions also appeared to play down the prospects that his Justice Department would seek to jail Hillary Clinton over her private email server, another pledge that Mr. Trump made repeatedly during the campaign. Mr. Sessions surprised lawmakers by declaring that he would recuse himself from any decisions on Mrs. Clinton’s emails or the Clinton Foundation because he said that critical statements he made about her during the campaign might pose a conflict. Mr. Sessions had previously supported appointing a special prosecutor to investigate Mrs. Clinton. The F. B. I. ’s investigation into her private email server is closed, and while a preliminary investigation into the Clinton Foundation is open, senior law enforcement officials say there is little basis for the case to move forward. He deflected questions about Mr. Trump with a calm stoicism, but he grew angry and emotional when Democrats pressed him on a more personal matter: accusations of racial insensitivity toward his employees and others as a federal prosecutor, which doomed his nomination for a federal judgeship in 1986. Protesters in the ornate Senate hearing room, who disrupted the proceedings more than a dozen times during the day, erupted in chants of “Sessions is a racist!” and “No Trump, no K. K. K. no fascist U. S. A. !” Two men dressed as Klansmen in white robes and hoods shouted their mocking support for Mr. Sessions before security officers hustled them out of the room. With his voice rising, Mr. Sessions called accusations that he had made racist remarks in the 1980s “damnably false. ” Senator Susan Collins of Maine, a Republican friend who introduced Mr. Sessions for the hearing, came to his defense, pointing to Mr. Sessions’s prosecution of Klan members in an Alabama murder and his appointment of the first   chief counsel to the Judiciary Committee’s Republican staff. “These are not the actions of an individual motivated by racial animus,” she said. Mr. Sessions was the first senator to endorse Mr. Trump’s   presidential bid in early 2016, and they bonded over their shared agreement that immigration had had devastating effects on working people. While Mr. Sessions sought to distance himself on Tuesday from some of Mr. Trump’s controversial stances, he embraced the  ’s focus on toughened immigration laws and a “law and order” agenda  —   priorities he himself has stressed for years. He promised to escalate federal arrests and prosecutions of undocumented immigrants, drug dealers, gun traffickers and violent criminals in response to a rise in crime in some cities, and he declared that “protecting the American people from the scourge of radical Islamic terrorism will continue to be a top priority. ” Critical to that agenda, he said, will be improving federal relations with the police after the intense scrutiny that has followed a string of   police shootings of black men, often unarmed. “Law enforcement as a whole has been unfairly maligned and blamed for the unacceptable actions of a few of their bad actors,” Mr. Sessions said. “They believe the political leadership in the country has abandoned them. ” Indeed, Mr. Sessions questioned the Obama administration’s use of civil rights lawsuits and consent decrees to force changes in training and    policies at police departments that have been accused of unconstitutional tactics. Although Mr. Sessions has completed his testimony, the hearings will continue on Wednesday with testimony by advocates on both sides. Witnesses supporting Mr. Sessions will include former Attorney General Michael B. Mukasey and Larry Thompson, a former deputy attorney general. Testifying against him will be officials from the American Civil Liberties Union and the N. A. A. C. P. as well as Senator Cory Booker, Democrat of New Jersey, a rare case of a senator testifying against a colleague.