Andrew Bogut expressed his dismay with the Olympic Village in Rio de Janeiro by initiating a sarcastic hashtag on Twitter: #IOCLuxuryLodging. [The   who will play with the Australian national team, tweeted a picture of himself crafting a shower curtain “so we can not flood the place. ” The center, acquired this offseason by the Dallas Mavericks after several successful years with Golden State, tweeted that he plans on “posting pics with the hashtag #IOCLuxuryLodging #rio2016. ”  #IOCLuxuryLodging. Putting together a shower curtain so we can shower and not flood the place. pic. twitter.   —   Andrew Bogut (@andrewbogut) August 2, 2016,  In the OLY village. Upon first looks its only fitting I will be posting pics with the hashtag #IOCLuxuryLodging #rio2016,  —   Andrew Bogut (@andrewbogut) August 2, 2016,  At #IOCLuxuryLodging we believe a bed is not vital for sleep. Fine tuned athletes can sleep standing up.  https:  .   —   Andrew Bogut (@andrewbogut) August 2, 2016,  #IOCLuxuryLodging will not comment on our delegates penthouse villas in downtown Rio.  https:  .   —   Andrew Bogut (@andrewbogut) August 2, 2016,  Bogut’s tweets come just a few days after the Australia contingent declined to check in at the Athletes Village due to major water leaks, gas leaks, and unsanitary conditions, that Australian Olympic Committee delegation chief Kitty Chiller concluded “endangered” the Olympic athletes. Last week Breitbart News reported Chiller’s assessment of the miserable living conditions included “blocked toilets, leaking pipes, exposed wiring, darkened stairwells where no lighting has been installed and dirty floors in need of a massive clean. In operations areas water has come through the ceiling resulting in large puddles on the floor around cabling and wiring. ” Adding insult to injury, according to an ESPN report, Friday a fire started in rubbish in the underground parking structure forcing 100 Australian team members to vacate their section of Olympic Village. Although no one was injured by the fire, when the athletes returned to their rooms they discovered two laptops and several team shirts stolen. 