According to the New York Times, contrary to his campaign narrative about funding his successful 2012 Senate run by liquidating personal assets, Ted Cruz and his wife Heidi took out a loan for up to $500, 000 from Goldman Sachs, where Mrs. Cruz worked. [The loan was not disclosed on campaign finance reports for the 2012 Cruz Senate campaign, although it appeared in subsequent filings.  The Times says that Cruz reported that he put a total of about $1. 2 million in “personal funds” into the 2012 Texas campaign, which represented the bulk of the couple’s liquid assets. He has described cleaning out his savings to fund the campaign in interviews. However, a review of later financial forms showed that in the first half of 2012, the Cruzes took out the loan from Goldman Sachs, plus another, smaller loan from Citibank. The Times reports that neither of these loans appeared in the filings from Ted Cruz for Senate with the Federal Election Commission. The Times relates the explanation provided by Cruz campaign staff: Remember when the big NYT Cruz loan scoop ran on @RollCall June 3, 2013? https:  .   —   Phil Kerpen (@kerpen) January 14, 2016,  Ted Cruz’s primary runoff against Dewhurst was July 31, 2012. He publicly disclosed the margin loan July 9, 2012. pic. twitter.   —   Phil Kerpen (@kerpen) January 14, 2016,  The bulk of the New York Times article is devoted to accusing Cruz of deliberately hiding the Goldman Sachs loan for political reasons.  That accusation is very difficult to sustain, given that the loan was divulged before the 2012 election and has been discussed in public several times since then.  At worst, Cruz might be criticized for neglecting to mention that he took out a margin loan when he talks about putting his personal money on the line during the 2012 Senate race. The only “news” here is the FEC filing, which the Cruz campaign promptly acknowledged as an error they need to address.  It is rather small on the scale of campaign finance issues, and the case that it was anything but the mistake Cruz’s team described it as would appear to be thin. It’s notable that the New York Times piece does not include the dates of the loans, or the dates of the campaign expenditures they insinuate the loans were taken to cover, leaving readers to draw their own conclusions about timing and motivation. Senator Cruz addressed the story personally on Wednesday, repeating what his campaign said about the omission from the FEC report as a mistake he would correct as quickly as possible: 