After being beaten and mugged by migrants, a student alleges the Austrian police blamed her “blonde hair and sexy clothing” for the brutal attack. [Police officers reportedly told the woman that to avoid such attacks, which they warned are now a daily fact of life in Vienna, she should stay indoors after 8pm in future, and dye her blonde hair. The 20 year old, speaking to Heute only as “Sabina” recalled that she was waiting to catch a train at the Austrian capital’s Westbahnhof Station when a man came up and spoke to her in a foreign language. After he told her there were hardly any blonde women where he grew up, and started to touch her hair, she told the man to go away. Judging by his language and appearance the woman believed the man was from Afghanistan. Although he left after being told to go away, the man soon returned with three friends.  After snatching her designer handbag, which contained her purse and credit cards, the foreign appearance men attacked Sabina, hurled her to the floor and fled. Experiencing pain in her shoulder, elbow, spine, and hip doctors later told the epileptic drama student that she’d suffered a contusion to the skull and a probable seizure because of the attack. The drama student told the newspaper she plans to avoid crowds in future, and as a result is putting off plans to attend the Danube Island Festival but that now, more than fear, she feels anger as a result of her conversation with the police. Telling her that migrant muggings are now routine and will likely get worse, they said she should dye her hair dark and avoid going out alone after 8pm. Sabina said she was angry at the behaviour of the men because she herself is of migrant origin, but unlike them had learnt to adopt to Austrian culture. She told the newspaper that she came from Dubai, but had learnt to speak German, converted to Christianity, and fitted in. Asked what she would say if faced with her attackers again the woman said, “Nothing. I would pepper spray their faces. ” Breitbart London has reported extensively on the migrant attacks gripping the Austrian capital, including the rape of a ten year old boy at a swimming pool by an Iraqi migrant, the hospitalisation of a husband who attempted to protect his wife from a ‘Sharia Patrol’ and the apparently motiveless murder of a 54 year old woman this week. The brutal killing of the woman was reported committed by a Kenyan migrant with a “long criminal history” who attacked her as she went from her cleaning job with an iron bar in the early hours of Tuesday morning. The migrant was supposed to be deported in 2014, but was never removed from the country. he is presently being assessed by police psychiatrists with the aid of a translator, as he claims to speak no German. 