In sunny southern California, a couple is celebrating the election of   Donald J. Trump with their Christmas tree, despite a potential backlash. They already have plans for a   tree in four years. [“It just automatically came to me, it has to be a Trump tree this year,” San Diego resident Ginny [no last name given] told local 10 News. Ginny and John’s family choose a theme for their tree every year, but this year when they discussed what the theme would be, they left behind their usual color or sparkle genres in favor of an ode to the incoming President of the United States.   “We were gonna have to have something that related to Trump,” Ginny said. Responding to critics, John told 10 News, “I just feel sorry for them that they can’t appreciate what we want to do. The couple declined to give their last names in the report due to potential backlash. Ginny told NBC 7 that the family wanted to “celebrate the new beginning of this country. ” They ordered a number of their   ornaments from purveyors from the website Etsy. Some of the ornaments carried   Trump phrases: “Make America Great Again,” “Bomb the Hell Out of Them,” “Who’s Going to Pay for the Wall? ,” “I’m Going to Build a Wall” and one of the group’s favorites, “YUGE. ” (Breitbart News has its own ornament for sale.) Let your loved ones know how ‘precious’ they are with Breitbart’s first ever Snowflake Tree Ornament https:  .  ❤️ #Christmas pic. twitter.   —   Adelle Nazarian (@AdelleNaz) December 20, 2016,  Trump’s signature “Make America Great Again” slogan adorned several ornaments. Even Trump’s infamous nicknames for his political competitors made the cut. Sparkly, round, red ornaments emblazoned with big white letters read “Little Marco,” “Lyin’ Ted,” and “Crooked Hillary. ” Ginny expressed how much she loves Christmas. “Four years from now we’ll put up another one,” John told 10 News. “He won fair and square. He’s what America needs now and I think it is, it’s more spirit now than ever,” Ginny added. Ornaments shown also included stars and stripes, and sparkly snowflakes. Red Christmas lights illuminate the tree with a big,   star at the top. Others have also conceived   Christmas trees. Flickr user Quinn Dombrowski posted this photo of a tree adorned with   memes: Follow Michelle Moons on Twitter @MichelleDiana 