Donald Trump’s campaign is slamming the August jobs report, blaming the lack of quality jobs on   economic policies. [“The August jobs report shows the stagnant   economy fails to deliver the jobs Americans desperately need. The Bureau of Labor Statistics reports the economy added only 126, 000 private sector jobs in August. That would be bad enough, but when we look at the kind of jobs being produced, it’s even worse,” says Trump’s senior economic adviser David Malpass.  He said that more than a third of the jobs are “low paying service jobs in seconds such as retail and restaurants that won’t support a family, pay for a home or put children through college. ” Malpass continued: We see many jobs in   services. These are worthy entry level jobs that can impart a valuable work ethic and supplement an income, but they will not sustain a middle class standard of living. We see too few   jobs making the goods Americans use and can export to the rest of world. The lack of   jobs is a direct result of the Clinton globalist policies that have sent US jobs and industries overseas. The August jobs report shows a troubling   trend: The   economy fails to produce   jobs, particularly in the manufacturing industries that can reduce our trade deficit. We lost 14, 000 manufacturing jobs. The offshoring of   American jobs and the replacement of American workers at home with   foreign labor, whether illegal or on work visas, has destroyed upward mobility, consumer purchasing power and the tax base of state, local, and federal governments. The unemployment rate is unchanged at 4. 9% rate. The country’s labor force participation rate is 62. 8% near a historic low. The   recovery is seven years of failure on virtually every significant metric  —   growth, income, trade and jobs. Donald Trump’s policies will put America First, Make America Work Again and Make America Great Again. According to Breitbart News’s Charlie Spiering, 151, 000 jobs were added to the U. S. economy, but that number is down roughly 25, 000 jobs from what economic analysts had previously estimated.