“This is terrorism,” GOP presumptive presidential nominee Donald Trump said Friday of Islamic terror attacks in the United States, as he slammed President Barack Obama for “trying to make terrorism into guns. ”[Trump referenced the Islamic terror attack that left 14 people dead and more than 20 injured in San Bernardino, California saying, “It’s a radicalization like nobody has ever seen before   …     it’s a   hatred and President Obama is trying to make terrorism into guns, and it’s not guns folks, it is not guns, it is not guns. This is terrorism. ”  “Hillary Clinton wants to abolish the second amendment essentially,” Trump added with regard to Sunday’s deadly Islamic terror attack in Orlando, Florida. The Muslim shooter killed 49 people and injured at least 53 more at a gay nightclub in the early morning hours. It was deemed the deadliest mass shooting in modern American history. Obama made references to increasing gun control measures as he initially reacted publicly to the attack while failing to acknowledge reports that the Muslim shooter pledged allegiance to ISIS. “People in Paris, where you have the toughest gun laws in the world, in Paris, in France. In Paris you have the toughest gun laws in the world,” Trump went on to say of the 130 killed in the coordinated Islamic terror bombings and shootings in the City of Light last November. Trump also listed the death of five on a U. S. military base, mentioning it was a gun free zone. “A gun free zone often means carnage,” said Trump. The reference sounded to be to the Chattanooga shooting at two military centers eleven months ago that left five dead and three wounded. “We should declare war on ISIS,” proclaimed Trump. “It’s war. ” “They are poisoning our youth through the internet,” he said. There exists a high level of activity among supporters of Islamic jihad on social media networks as well as videos encouraging Muslims to carry out attacks. Yahoo News reported that “government and congressional sources briefed by the FBI” have revealed that the Orlando attacker watched terrorist videos including beheadings, put out by the Islamic State. “They’re thugs, they’re sick people,” said Trump. He went on to say, “When I started this journey it was about illegal immigration   …     and it was about trade   …     and it was about a strong military   …    and bringing our jobs back. Then we had Paris happen and we had other things happen, whether it’s San Bernardino or so many others, and I started saying wow, we gotta toughen up this country. ” “We have to report ‘em fast. The leader of the Paris attack they couldn’t find, and around a year later they find him close to home,” Trump said, then mentioned several instances in which people are believed to have known of plans for terror attacks within the U. S. or suspicious activity and didn’t report it. “This maniac over the weekend, look at his record. People saw what he was doing. First of all, his wife knew. I think his father knew. I think a lot of people knew and they didn’t report him, and we have now, we have 50 young people, we have 50 people dead. We have a tremendous number of people badly, horribly, gravely injured,” said the presumptive Republican nominee. Authorities have been investigating the terrorist’s wife. She is reported to have told authorities that she scouted Disney World with her husband as a potential attack site. Several other reports have since come out indicating that the attacker’s wife knew he was planning to carry out the mass murder. Follow Michelle Moons on Twitter @MichelleDiana 