TEL AVIV  —   Now that France has been forced into a war against terrorism, it would do well to take lessons from Israel, a French parliamentarian told Arutz Sheva in the wake of the murder of a priest in Normandy by Muslim extremists. [MP Meir Habib, who also served as vice chairman of the investigating committee for the 2015 terror attacks in France, said he was urging the country’s leadership, which he claims is woefully unprepared to deal with the threat it is facing, to learn from Israel’s   tactics.  “I sought to go to Israel and to learn from the Israelis you’re more experienced in dealing with terrorism. Thirty of us, French parliamentarians, met with the [Israeli] Prime Minister, Justice Minister, Police Chief, and the Chairman of the Foreign Affairs and Security Committee, Avi Dichter. ” “We see that the Islamic State doesn’t start up with you [Israel],” he added. “Unfortunately as of now we are not ready in terms of intelligence and professional [training] to overcome the terrorists, either in terms of sealing the borders or in dealing with incitement in mosques,” said Habib. “Every day we wake up to another terror attack, one time in Germany, another time in France the truck terror attack and the murder of the priest. ” Habib slammed the French government for not condemning the recent wave of terror attacks in Israel. When the car attacks and stabbings started in Israel, I called on France to condemn it they didn’t and now it has come here. Also here we have millions of Muslims, most of them not radicalized, but the incitement in the mosques must be stopped. There was recently an imam who told dozens of children that anyone who listens to   music is a monkey or pig. The jihadist Satan wants us all to become jihadists, and it has nothing to do with territory. This is a total world war, [and it’s] either us or them, and we must be determined against this trash. We need to destroy them, to launch ground operations with an international coalition and finish off IS. According to Habib, the French government ignored his calls to arrest Muslim sympathizers with the terrorists behind attacks on the kosher supermarket on January 9, 2015. “After the attack on the Hyper Cacher [kosher supermarket] there were 30, 000 Muslims who identified with the murderers on Twitter. I told the Internal Minister to arrest them, but it didn’t happen. And yesterday they slaughtered a poor    priest. “Can you imagine what that is, to slaughter a priest in a church? Imagine if, God forbid, a rabbi would be slaughtered in a synagogue. Unfortunately this is just the beginning, and I said already years ago [we need to] wake up, open our eyes, we need to be determined and in the end we will be victorious. ”