Turns out the Clintons have been right all along: Lying really does work. [Poring through all these purloined emails, you get the sense that these people spend every breathing second of their day either lying, plotting to tell lies or lying about lies they told in the past.  And each batch of stolen emails is worse than the last. Hillary Clinton is a liar. She has terrible instincts. She doesn’t believe in anything. Her head is broken. She doesn’t know why she should be president. She is pathological. And she is psychotic. Just ask everybody who works for her. Just ask campaign chairman John Podesta. Just ask the people working the hardest to get her elected president. I mean, in her most rabid streak of attacks on Donald Trump’s alleged unfitness for office, Mrs. Clinton doesn’t call him “psychotic. ” Psychotic! That is what her campaign chairman called her. Remember back when President Bill Clinton got into all that trouble molesting the young intern in his Oral Office? Remember the first thing the lying, conniving, dissembling    did?   Take a poll. And he found out that he could skate by on even this  —   even this! But first  —   the poll told him  —   he had to stall for time. He had to lie about it for as long as he possibly could before coming clean. And that was exactly what he did. And he survived. And good thing he survived so he could go on to haunt America another 15 years later. In the latest batch of leaked emails, one top Democratic operative is still grappling with “WJC Issues. ” “How is what Bill Clinton did different from what Bill Cosby did?” Ron Klain asks in a list of questions worth posing to Mrs. Clinton. “You said every woman should be believed. Why not the women who accused him?” And, perhaps the best: “Will you apologize to the women who were wrongly smeared by your husband and his allies?” Answer: Not likely. Never apologize. Never admit. And always keep lying. That is the very heart of the ethos of Hillary Clinton’s campaign. Lie about everything. Lie all the time. Lie about emails. Lie about servers. Lie about national security. Lie about who knew what when. Lie about spilling classified secrets. Lie about dead soldiers. Exhaust the people with lies. And then, very flippantly, after months or years of lying, say whatever you have to say to make the press go away. “I am sorry you were confused. ” “I have already said I wish I had done it differently. ” “What difference, at this point, does it make?” It is all so shameless and dirty and befuddling that it would make Niccolo Machiavelli blush. • Charles Hurt can be reached at charleshurt@live. com follow him on Twitter via @charleshurt.