Islamic State and their supporters have been celebrating the Munich gun attack as though they orchestrated the event, although no links have been found between the killer and Islamist organisations. [Following the news that an      had opened fire in a McDonalds restaurant and mall in Munich, killing nine and injuring 21 others, Twitter accounts run by supporters of Islamic state claimed that the organisation is “expanding into Europe,” while one of Islamic State’s main propaganda channels claimed the “Whole Europe [sic] is now under our terrorism. ”  One of main ISIS propaganda channels is already celebrating #Munich attack. ‘Whole Europe is under our terrorism’ pic. twitter.   —   Jenan Moussa (@jenanmoussa) July 22, 2016,  An alternative Islamic State propaganda channel said the Caliphate had not yet claimed the attack as one of their own, but they were celebrating victory regardless as “everything hurting infidels makes us happy. ” ISIS propaganda channel: “Munich so far not claimed by Islamic State. But everything hurting infidels make us happy” pic. twitter.   —   Jenan Moussa (@jenanmoussa) July 22, 2016,  Islamic State supporters have followed suit, celebrating the deaths of innocents as a victory regardless of the killer’s motives. “Thank God, may God bring prosperity to our Islamic State men,” read one tweet in Arabic, Reuters has reported. Munich Police say the picture emerging appears to be that of a shooting atrocity of the sort seen in American schools such as Columbine, rather than Islamic inspired terrorism. So far: #Munich gunman seems like a psycho. No political motivations. No link to ISIS. More ‘Bowling for Columbine” than ‘Bataclan’.  —   Jenan Moussa (@jenanmoussa) July 23, 2016,  Local media have named the perpetrator as    Ali David Sonboly, a   local whom neighbours describe as a “loner” who was subject to bullying online for a number of years. Police have raided his family home, where he lived with his parents, and have found no Islamic material, although they have found a literature relating to spree shootings. #Munich police found this book at the home of gunman. Title means: ‘TROUBLE IN HEAD  —   Why School Kids Kill’ @akhbar pic. twitter.   —   Jenan Moussa (@jenanmoussa) July 23, 2016,  Jenan Moussa, a   reporter has suggested that the attack also does not share the hallmarks of Islamic terrorism in that the shooter killed himself rather than continuing his killing spree until being gunned down by police. The latter is seen as martyrdom and therefore honourable by Islamic fighters. Some unconfirmed reports #Munich attacker shot himself. If such reports true (I say if) then likely attacker not ISIS. This is why:  —   Jenan Moussa (@jenanmoussa) July 22, 2016,  Jihadists normally dont shoot themselves. Their usual tactics: fight until killed (Inghemasi انغماسي) or blow yourself up (Intehari انتحاري)  —   Jenan Moussa (@jenanmoussa) July 22, 2016,  Nonetheless, in a week which has seen a major Islamic atrocity in Nice, France, and an Islamic   axe attack in Wurzburg, Germany, questions will be asked about how a teenager was able to access an unlicensed 2mm weapon and more than 300 rounds of ammunition and what that means for security officials in Europe when dealing with the threat of terrorism.