The left is melting down about Phil Robertson’s speech to the Western Conservative Summit over the weekend in Colorado. [Robertson spoke up for complementary    marriage and so a writer at Mediaite called it “  hatred. ” A writer at Salon called it “hate speech. ” The Huffington Post called it a “public   session. ”  The left is especially incensed that Robertson believes that marriage is based on men and women rather than whatever is preferred by five judges on the Supreme Court. He cited “7, 000 years” of marital history as proof and also cited Scripture. This is a belief held by at least half of the adults in the United States and an overwhelming number of countries around the world. Robertson linked the 160, 000 murders in America over the last 13 years to the Supreme Court’s decisions  —   and the left assumed he is blaming those murders on gays. Here is how a writer at Salon put it: “Robertson claimed that high death rate, which has actually decreased in recent years, is the fault of LGBT people. ‘When you allow men to determine what’s right and what’s wrong, you get decisions like the five judges who said, ‘I may not know we have 7, 000 years of history of men marrying women, Robertson continued. ‘A male and a female. For that reason, they’ll leave their father and mother and cleave to one another and become one flesh. I know it’s been that way for 7, 000 years, but we know best for what’s everybody. ’” In fact, Robertson did not blame homosexuals for 160, 000 murders in the U. S. Robertson was making the rather unremarkable point that chaos follows when the elite embraces the cultural and moral relativism that also justifies changing marriage rules to allow   marriage. Rather than blaming gays, he is blaming a corrupt and unrooted legal and political culture. The left seems to delight in misunderstanding Robertson. None more so than when Robertson supposedly used the calendar to show that Jesus was God. Robertson used the calendar to explain that something remarkable happened in the man Jesus, after all, our calendar is dated beginning with his life. He said, “If your calendar is dated on of (sic) all the human beings who have ever walked on the earth, and your calendar is dedicated and predicated to just one of them, evidently something rather large went down back then. ” The left has tried for years to silence Robertson. They hate the idea that one of their own network  —   AE  —   has given him a platform. They were able to silence the Benham Brothers, who to this day refuse to back down on their beliefs about homosexuality and marriage. But the left has not been able to silence Robertson and his popular show Duck Dynasty. Even though Duck Dynasty is down in viewers, from a high of more than 11 million a few years ago to roughly 3 million now, the show is still the tenth highest rated on cable. Robertson still delights his audiences in his fearless defense of traditional beliefs, no matter how unpopular with the   media. At the Western Conservative Summit, he pulled his beard and explained it is the stuff of manhood and that the ladies present would never see him come in while they were putting on their makeup in the lady’s room, a reference to the current battles over men in dresses using women’s showers and locker rooms.  