Conservative author and commentator Ann Coulter triggered an outrage spasm on Twitter yesterday evening when she suggested that opinions on what it means to be an American carry more weight when they come from people who were actually born in the country. [It took just two tweets from Coulter, one about CNN journalist Fareed Zakaria, and another about guest Danielle Pletka, to send progressives (and a fair few   conservatives) over the edge.  I like hearing CNN’s Fareed Zakaria ask in a thick Indian accent, ”What kind of America do we want to return to?”  —   Ann Coulter (@AnnCoulter) July 24, 2016,  Now, Australian Danielle Pletka says Trump sounds like a national leader ”OF RUSSIA.” Pro Tip: Try to get Americans tell us what’s American.  —   Ann Coulter (@AnnCoulter) July 24, 2016,  Ann Coulter has been a staunch proponent of Donald Trump’s brand of populist nationalism since he entered the race, and progressives never miss an opportunity to brand her a bigot. So, naturally, they immediately took to explain how shocked and horrified they were at Coulter’s opinion. Some even descended into straightforward insults, with TV producer and author David Simon calling her “horse faced. ” That’s exactly my kind of America: Different accents, cultures, traditions, people. You vicious,   bigot. https:  .   —   David Simon (@AoDespair) July 24, 2016,  Skank hater. @AnnCoulter won’t even be allowed into hell she’s so vile. https:  .   —   romire (@rmrjc) July 25, 2016,  These are the same people, remember, who attack Donald Trump for lack of civility. The tweets went on: In every generation, there have been bigots  demagogues who spew hateful crap. We are a better country than this. https:  .   —   David Axelrod (@davidaxelrod) July 24, 2016,   this tweet makes his point. Do we really want to return to an America that thinks Coulter’s racism is acceptable? https:  .   —   James Morrison (@JamesPMorrison) July 24, 2016,  After Nero it’s time we make Coulter pack her bags next https:  .   —   Comfortably Smug (@ComfortablySmug) July 24, 2016,  delete your account and get into a gulag  https:  .   —   Sam Cooney (@SamuelCooney) July 25, 2016,  I like imagining the moment Ann Coulter will cry like a baby when Trump loses  she has to slink back under her rock https:  .   —   (((Yair Rosenberg))) (@Yair_Rosenberg) July 24, 2016,  FYI, @AnnCoulter also inspired Trump’s Mexican ”rapists” comments last year: https:  .  https:  .   —   Carlos Lozada (@CarlosLozadaWP) July 24, 2016,  There’s disagreement, and then there’s throwing a tantrum  …     You can follow Allum Bokhari on Twitter, add him on Facebook, and download Milo Alert! for Android to be kept up to date on his latest articles.