■ Robert F. Kennedy Jr. one of the nation’s most prominent skeptics of childhood vaccines, says   Donald J. Trump has asked him to lead a vaccine panel. ■ Charlotte Church delivers a pungent “no” to the inaugural committee’s invitation to perform. Inaugural official says they were going for “soft sensuality” anyway. ■ A delay for the confirmation hearing of Mr. Trump’s pick for education secretary, Betsy DeVos. Mr. Trump on Tuesday asked a prominent   crusader to lead a new government commission on vaccine safety and scientific integrity, ushering debunked conspiracy theories about the dangers of immunization into the White House. Mr. Trump, who has embraced discredited links between vaccines and autism, has asked Robert F. Kennedy Jr. a nephew of President John F. Kennedy, to be chairman of the commission, Mr. Kennedy said after meeting with the   at Trump Tower. Mr. Kennedy’s appointment spread alarm through the medical community, which for years has rejected claims that childhood vaccines are linked to conditions like autism. Medical experts warned Tuesday that Mr. Trump’s actions would endanger children by confusing parents about the need to have them vaccinated. “It gives it a   that I frankly find frightening,” said William Schaffner, a professor of preventive medicine and infectious diseases at Vanderbilt University. He said Mr. Trump and Mr. Kennedy were being fooled by “ ” theories about vaccines. “This is going to be a sad struggle as we try to protect as many children as possible,” Mr. Schaffner said. Among his many political pursuits, Mr. Trump picked up the   cause a few years back. In 2012, he tweeted: And: These views, to say the least, are not the scientific consensus, any more than scientists believe that climate change is a Chinese plot  —   another theory once espoused by the  . Charlotte Church can sing in English, Welsh, Latin, Italian and French, but she won’t be doing so in any language for Mr. Trump’s inauguration. Ms. Church, the Welsh singer who began her public career at the age of 11 in the late 1990s, said on Tuesday that Mr. Trump’s inaugural team had reached out to her about performing during the festivities. She was, to put it nicely, less than interested. (Yes, those emoji are what you think they are.) Ms. Church’s wasn’t the only door slamming shut on Mr. Trump’s team on Tuesday. The other belonged to Rebecca Ferguson, a British singer who rose to prominence on the country’s “X Factor” and said she would perform only if she could sing Billie Holiday’s “Strange Fruit. ” The inaugural team was apparently less than enthusiastic. Mr. Trump’s team has secured performances by the Mormon Tabernacle Choir, the    Jackie Evancho and the Radio City Rockettes. They are expected to dribble out more artists soon. Meh, they didn’t want Charlotte Church anyway. Tom Barrack Jr. a close friend of Mr. Trump’s who is planning the inauguration, told reporters in Trump Tower on Tuesday that Mr. Trump was not looking for “ ” to perform anyway. “We’re fortunate in that we have the greatest celebrity in the world, which is the ” Mr. Barrack said. He added, “so what we’ve done instead of trying to surround him with what people consider   is we are going to surround him with the soft sensuality of the place. It’s a much more poetic cadence than having a circuslike celebration that’s a coronation. ” “Soft sensuality” is not generally what comes to mind when one thinks of Washington, D. C. in January, but the city is changing. Senate Democrats have been complaining that there are too many hearings for Mr. Trump’s nominees on Wednesday  —   at one point there were six scheduled  —   and Republicans, eager to get Mr. Trump’s team in place, have relented a bit. They moved Betsy DeVos, his pick for education secretary, to Jan. 17. Ms. DeVos’s wealth and complicated finances have made the process of unraveling her potential conflicts of interest through the Office of Government Ethics a bit more complicated, so she was perhaps the most logical person to bump. The office, in a letter to Senator Patty Murray of Washington, the ranking Democrat on the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, made it clear that Ms. DeVos’s background check is far from complete, and that it would be inappropriate to move forward without it. Republicans have maintained the date for her vote out of the HELP Committee: Jan. 24. Two military experts told the Senate Armed Services Committee on Tuesday that an exception should be made so that James N. Mattis, a recently retired Marine Corps general, can serve as secretary of defense in the Trump administration. The hearing on the importance of civilian control of the military, which was led by Senator John McCain of Arizona, is intended to set the stage for the committee’s confirmation hearing on Mr. Mattis’s nomination on Thursday. Military officers are barred by law from serving as defense secretary unless they have been out of office for seven years. Mr. Mattis retired from the military in May 2013. But in an encouraging sign for his prospects, the lawmakers appeared to be generally receptive to the experts’ arguments. “The principle of civilian control of the military is precious,” said Eliot A. Cohen, a professor at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies, who served as State Department counselor during the George W. Bush administration. But Mr. Cohen, who was a “Never Trumper” during the campaign, argued that an exception should be made because Mr. Mattis was a person of integrity and had vital experience at a time when the Pentagon has to contend with multiple threats, and because he might dissuade the incoming administration from acting recklessly. “A Secretary Mattis would be a stabilizing and moderating force, preventing wildly stupid, dangerous and illegal things from happening, and over time helping to steer American foreign and security policy in a sound and sensible direction,” Mr. Cohen said. Kathleen H. Hicks, an expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, also said that it was appropriate to make an exception for Mr. Mattis and praised his character and expertise. “It should never be considered ‘time for a general’ to fill the   nonelected civilian position in the operational chain,” she said, referring to Mr. Trump’s comments in a November interview. “I assess the state of U. S.   relations to be strong enough to withstand any risk such a     exception, on its own, could pose,” she added.   Trump’s transition team is considering asking the deputy defense secretary, Robert Work, to remain in his position at the Pentagon for several months after Mr. Trump’s inauguration, according to an official familiar with the discussions. While no final decision has been made, the official suggested that Mr. Work could provide some initial bureaucratic stability as Mr. Mattis builds his team at the Pentagon. Last month Mr. Trump announced his intention to nominate Vincent Viola as Army secretary. Mr. Work’s consideration was posted on Twitter by Jennifer Griffin of Fox News and also reported by The Washington Post. Mr. Work could not be reached for comment Monday night. This one will hurt. Two prominent   lawmakers, Representative John Lewis of Georgia, a civil rights hero, and Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey, will be the Democrats’ star witnesses against Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama, Mr. Trump’s nominee to be attorney general. Mr. Sessions’s nomination to be a federal judge in 1986 was derailed by allegations of racial bias, and he has drawn opposition from   groups. Both lawmakers will have their own particular resonance. Mr. Lewis, a lieutenant of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. ’s, was beaten bloody on the Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma, Ala. a seminal moment in the civil rights movement. Mr. Booker, the former mayor of Newark, may lack the historical gravitas of Mr. Lewis, but he may hold more weight for one reason: He will be testifying against a fellow senator. He is believed to be the first sitting senator set to testify against a fellow sitting senator  —   ever. In a large show of military opposition to reinstating torture, 176 retired officers  —   including 33   generals and admirals  —   have sent a joint letter to Mr. Trump urging him not to follow through on his campaign vows to bring back waterboarding “and a hell of a lot worse. ” The letter, obtained by The New York Times, was dated Jan. 6 and signed by some of the most prominent military figures of the recent era. They included two former Afghanistan war commanders, Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal and Gen. John R. Allen, and the Special Operations commander who oversaw the raid that killed Osama bin Laden, Adm. William H. McRaven. Citing their “six thousand years of combined experience” in commanding troops, the retired officers expressed concern “about statements made during the campaign about the use of torture or cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment of detainees in U. S. custody,” and they noted that waterboarding and other “enhanced interrogation techniques” are illegal under domestic and international law. The officers also called torture both “unnecessary” and “counterproductive,” adding that it “violates our core values as a nation. ” “Our greatest strength is our commitment to the rule of law and to the principles embedded in our Constitution,” the letter continued. “Our servicemen and women need to know that our leaders do not condone torture or detainee abuse of any kind. ” During the presidential campaign, Mr. Trump said he would bring back waterboarding and more for the interrogation of terrorism suspects  —   contending that “torture works,” and even “if it doesn’t work, they deserve it anyway. ” The letter makes clear that Mr. Mattis, Mr. Trump’s pick for defense secretary, is not alone in recoiling against torture. Those signing also included a former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Hugh H. Shelton a former commander of the Central Command, Gen. Joseph Hoar and four former commanders of the Southern Command: Gen. Douglas Fraser, Gen. James T. Hill, Gen. Barry R. McCaffrey and Adm. James G. Stavridis, who went on to be the NATO supreme allied commander. The list also included two former directors of the National Security Agency, Gen. Keith Alexander and Adm. Bobby Ray Inman a commandant of the Marine Corps, Gen. Charles C. Krulak and chiefs of staff of the Army and the Air Force, Gen. Dennis J. Reimer and Gen. Merrill A. McPeak. In public, President Obama and his top officials have been careful to keep the smiles pasted on their faces when it comes to their successors, but Michael Froman, Mr. Obama’s United States trade representative, will let the smile slip this morning in a speech billed as a “farewell address. ” In prepared remarks, Mr. Froman does not mention Mr. Trump by name, but he leaves little doubt that he disdains the incoming president’s views on trade, particularly Mr. Trump’s opposition to a proposed trade agreement among Pacific Rim nations that Mr. Froman labored on for years. “I can’t imagine why any president would want to abdicate our leadership in the   to be responsible for handing the keys of the castle to China, for driving our historic allies and China’s historic rivals into China’s arms,” Mr. Froman’s prepared text reads. Mr. Froman describes Mr. Trump’s opposition to the deal, the central achievement of Mr. Froman’s tenure as United States trade representative, as “the biggest gift any U. S. president could give China. ”