The aftermath of the   shooting of a black suspect shot by a black police officer in Charlotte, North Carolina continues to reverberate and now the NAACP has jumped into the fray to insist that African Americans who become police officers are no longer black. [As more information emerges about the long criminal record of Charlotte resident Keith Lamont Scott and evidence mounts that he actually was brandishing a weapon when an African American police officer shot him, some Black Lives Matter protesters are saying the facts of the case no longer matter.  Many on the BLM side of the argument have decided that shooting a black suspect is racist no matter what the circumstances are, even if it is a black police officer doing the shooting. It now appears the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) has aligned with that notion. In a new report by Charlotte’s WCNC TV, a spokesman for the NAACP called out for justice for the death of Scott but in a statement also insisted that the race of the officer doesn’t count because black police officers give up their blackness when they don the blue. “Many black people who become police officers become blue, not black,” the organization told the station. “In order for you to survive in a police department, you take on the police department’s ideology, ways of life, and culture. ” Meanwhile, WCNC also reported that Scott had a long record of violent behavior, including gun charges, and only last year had been hit with a restraining order from his own wife. Last October Scott’s wife testified that he had threatened her and their son. “He hit my    in the head a total of three times with his fist. On October 2, 2015, he kicked me and threatened to kill us last night with his gun. He said he is a ‘killer’ and we should know that,” she told police. Charlotte Mecklenburg Police have maintained since the beginning that Scott was armed during the confrontation with officers and that a gun was discovered by his side after he was shot. The suspect refused to drop his gun after being warned repeatedly by several officers present on the scene that day. Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston or email the author at igcolonel@hotmail. com.