It’s always been all about amnesty for illegal aliens.  Sally Bradshaw, the senior adviser to former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush who   the Republican National Committee (RNC) autopsy report in 2013 calling for amnesty for illegal aliens, has quit the GOP and plans to vote for Hillary Rodham Clinton in November. Bradshaw in an interview with CNN said she has officially quit the Republican Party over Donald J. Trump becoming the nominee, saying the GOP is “at a crossroads and have nominated a total narcissist  —   a misogynist  —   a bigot. ” “This is a time when country has to take priority over political parties. Donald Trump cannot be elected president,” Bradshaw said. In the CNN interview, Bradshaw went as far as saying that not only has she quit the Republican Party but that she will vote for Hillary Clinton in November if the race is close in Florida. Bradshaw said: If the race in Florida is close, I will vote for Hillary Clinton. That is a very difficult statement for me to make. I disagree with her on several important issues. I have worked to elect Republicans to national and statewide offices for the last 30 years. I have never voted for a Democrat for president, and I consider myself a conservative, a supporter of limited government, gun rights, free enterprise, equality of opportunity. I am  . There are no other candidates who were serious contenders for the nomination that I would not have supported. It’s worth noting that Bradshaw, despite her claims to be a conservative, has been a longtime promoter of amnesty for illegal aliens. She, along with Henry Barbour of Mississippi, former White House press secretary Ari Fleischer, as well as Zori Fonalledas and Glenn McCall, wrote the RNC autopsy report which specifically called for the Republican Party to grant amnesty to illegal aliens. “We are not a policy committee, but among the steps Republicans take in the Hispanic community and beyond, we must embrace and champion comprehensive immigration reform,” the report   by Bradshaw read. “If we do not, our Party’s appeal will continue to shrink to its core constituencies only. We also believe that  comprehensive immigration reform is consistent with Republican economic policies that promote job growth and opportunity for all. ” That, of course, was the precursor to the Senate’s “Gang of Eight” immigration bill —  a bill that surely ended the   presidential prospects of Sen. Marco Rubio ( ) at least for now —  and then eventually the precursor to President Barack Obama’s executive amnesty. Obama, citing congressional disagreement on immigration after the Senate passed Rubio’s bill but the House didn’t, pushed forward with an executive action to grant amnesty to millions of the illegal aliens who would have been amnestied under the bill if the Congress hadn’t blocked the Senate bill. Republicans, running   against Obama’s executive amnesty in 2014, recaptured the U. S. Senate in a historic   swing toward the GOP. And this year, the U. S. Supreme Court rejected Obama’s executive amnesty on a   basis —  essentially upholding a lower court’s opinion against it. That means that 2016 is shaping up to be an election about amnesty, a referendum on whether such an executive amnesty like Obama’s is acceptable. Hillary Clinton would undoubtedly appoint Justices to the U. S. Supreme Court —  including the seat vacated by the passing of Antonin Scalia —  who would uphold the executive amnesty move, whereas Donald Trump would appoint Justices who oppose it. That means that the election in November is a clear choice between supporting executive amnesty and opposing it. And that’s ultimately why Bradshaw, who has in her   of helping the Bushes, especially Jeb Bush in pushing for amnesty, is going so hard against the Republican Party in favor of the Democratic nominee Clinton. Everything that Bradshaw has ever worked for is hanging in the balance: If the voters prove her incorrect by electing a Republican as strongly opposed to amnesty as Donald Trump is, that means her years of work in pushing Republicans to be more embracing of amnesty for illegal aliens are moot.