Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Council President Chris Crane is issuing a challenge to Sen. Marco Rubio following Rubio’s attack on the officer. In an email to Rubio’s campaign  —   an exclusive copy of which is being provided to Breitbart News  —   Crane challenges Rubio to meet so that ICE Officer Crane can present Rubio with his badge and his credentials. [Crane represents America’s ICE officers and is an ICE officer himself.  “You recently lied to the American public on FOX news regarding my current status and career as both an ICE Agent and Officer,” Crane writes in his email to Rubio. “I challenge you to make yourself available, as a United States Senator and Presidential Candidate, so that I may present my badge and credentials to you as proof that your comments on FOX news are false. ” Following Crane’s detailed account published last week of how law enforcement was treated “like absolute trash” by Sen. Rubio during efforts to enact his   amnesty and mass immigration bill through the Senate, Rubio appeared on national television and denounced ICE Officer Crane and his service to the nation. “He’s not an ICE official. He’s the head of a union,” Rubio told Neil Cavuto. Rubio said he would not address Crane’s accusations because they were published by Breitbart News  —   suggesting that Crane was a “conspiracy” theorist. “I literally don’t talk about the things they [i. e. Breitbart News] report because they’re basically conspiracy theories and often times manipulated. And that individual is not an ICE official, he’s the head of a union,” Rubio said. Breitbart News published the full and unedited transcript of Chris Crane’s responses, in which Crane said that Rubio “absolutely knowingly misle[d] the American people” about his Gang of Eight bill, and that “violent street gangs were literally able to lobby Sen. Rubio and the Gang of Eight more effectively than law enforcement. ” Chris Crane has served his nation as an ICE officer for 13 years. He is also a former U. S. Marine, a lifetime member of the Veterans of Foreign Wars, and a lifetime member of the American Legion. Sen. Jeff Sessions described Crane as “an American hero” for blowing the whistle on immigration corruption. Crane explained why correcting the record about Rubio’s false attacks against him are critical for Crane to be able to perform his duties as the national spokesman for approximately 6, 000 ICE officers and personnel: “Because I am a whistleblower and law enforcement officer who frequently testifies before Congress, and provides information to the public by way of media interviews, it is critical to correct the public record. ” Crane explained that allowing him “to set the record straight  …     is the honorable thing to do. ” Rubio’s Gang of Eight immigration bill  —   supported by La Raza, Barbara Boxer, Dianne Feinstein, and all Senate Democrats  —   would have added 33 million permanent immigrants on green cards in the span of one decade, or nearly 12 new permanent immigrants for every one current resident of the state of Nevada. 