Good morning.  Here’s what you need to know: • President Obama began his final major address in Chicago by thanking the American people. “You made me a better president,” he said, “and you made me a better man. ” The White House is offering a live stream of the president’s farewell address. And here is the latest on the transition, including the prospect today of Donald J. Trump’s first news conference since July. _____ • American intelligence agencies presented President Obama and   Trump with unsubstantiated reports that Russia had collected compromising and salacious information about Mr. Trump. The information is based on memos generated by political operatives who sought to derail Mr. Trump’s candidacy. _____ • The use of torture was a main theme on the first day of a whirlwind week of U. S. Senate hearings on Mr. Trump’s cabinet choices. In a joint letter, 176 retired officers urged Mr. Trump not to follow through on campaign vows to bring back torture. Hours later, his attorney general pick, Senator Jeff Sessions, above, distanced himself from Mr. Trump’s pledge to bar Muslims immigrants and investigate Hillary Clinton. _____ • “They started coming in like the tide. ” That was an official at a refugee camp near Bangladesh’s border with Myanmar, where displaced Rohingya Muslims have fled by the thousands to escape a military crackdown in northern Rakhine State. Those in the camp say soldiers burned their villages, shot at random and systematically raped women and girls. _____ • In Iran, the authorities ignored the opposition chants that erupted at the sprawling state funeral for Ayatollah Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, who died on Sunday. Mr. Rafsanjani, once a staunch conservative, had in recent years become a hero to Iran’s middle class. For many of those involved in the   Green Revolution, the antigovernment demonstrations in 2009, he was a lone establishment voice representing their beliefs. By official estimates, 2. 5 million people attended the funeral. _____ • Beijing has increasingly signaled that it wants to take on a leadership role in promoting the Paris agreement to curb greenhouse gas emissions. China can’t yet lead by example yet. It’s still the world’s biggest polluter. But a shift is evident: Witness the country’s plans to spend $360 billion on renewable energy sources. _____ • President Rodrigo Duterte of the Philippines has said he has the names of more than a million supposed drug dealers and corrupt lawmakers. He once promised to kill 100, 000 criminals in his first six months in office. Our reporter met with local officials and law enforcement officers to determine who lives and who dies in the leader’s drug war. “There is no certain or easy way to get off Duterte’s list,” he writes. _____ • President Xi Jinping will speak next week at the opening of the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, as China looks to cement its role as a global economic leader. Mr. Xi will lead a group of Chinese executives that includes Jack Ma of Alibaba and Wang Jianlin, chairman of the Dalian Wanda Group. He will be the first Chinese head of state to address the annual meeting. • Alibaba is going brick and mortar. The Chinese   giant, which is seeking to acquire Intime Retail, has spent billions buying pieces of the very sector it disrupted. • Yahoo plans to rename itself Altaba if the $4. 8 billion sale of its internet business goes through. The name is a play on the single biggest asset that would remain of Yahoo: a 15 percent stake in Alibaba. • Fox News secretly settled sexual harassment accusations against Bill O’Reilly, the network’s top host, last summer. • Auto sales in India plunged in December, a casualty of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ban on large bank notes. • Most U. S. stocks were higher. Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • In Afghanistan, dozens of people were killed and more than 80 wounded in an attack on Parliament claimed by the Taliban. [The New York Times] • Dylann Roof, the white supremacist who showed no remorse for killing nine people at a South Carolina church in 2015, was sentenced to death. [The New York Times] • China ordered all textbooks from elementary school to university to push back the start date of its war against the Japanese from 1937 to 1931, and to replace “  war of resistance” with “  war of resistance. ” [South China Morning Post] • Thailand’s cabinet is meeting to discuss emergency measures for the heaviest rainfall in 30 years. At least 21 people have died in severe flooding in the south. [The Nation] • The World Cup will grow to 48 teams from 32 in 2026, a welcome move for Asia and Africa inclusion. But some see a money grab by the   governing body, FIFA. [The New York Times] • Clare Hollingworth, a British war correspondent who broke the news of World War II and was one of the first Western journalists to report regularly from China, died in Hong Kong. She was 105. [The New York Times] (In this new section, we’ll help you start your day right.) • We’ve all thought about it: Can we train ourselves to need less sleep? Sadly, the answer is a resounding no. • Recipe of the day: Want to go meatless tonight? Try   tofu with wild mushrooms. • Concerns over crashing populations of bees, butterflies and other insects that promote plant growth are spreading around the world. United States officials made the   bumblebee the first pollinator to be added to the endangered species list. • And we review   writer Han Kang’s   new novel “Human Acts. ” Each chapter offers a piercing psychological portrait of a character affected by the 1980 Gwangju massacre in South Korea. Norway is trying to make audio history this week. The country is beginning an experiment to switch off its FM stations and replace them with digital radio. If the plan succeeds, it could be the beginning of a change in how we listen to radio around the globe. Switzerland, Britain and Denmark are considering the same move. Norway, where terrestrial radio remains quite popular, was among the first countries to adopt digital radio in the 1990s. The government’s current effort is aimed at improving audio quality. That was also a goal in the creation of FM radio, which offers staticless,   broadcasting. Edwin Armstrong, an American inventor, is credited with figuring out how to transmit sound by modulating the frequency of electromagnetic waves (FM) instead of their amplitude (AM). He later built his own FM station to prove its worth to skeptics, though his triumph was marred by legal battles over patents. The New York Times called Armstrong one of the “great inventive geniuses in electrical engineering” after his death in 1954. “He always preferred to be the master of his own laboratory. That he was. ” _____ Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings. What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes. com.