Welcome to Breitbart News’s live updates of the 2016 horse race.   —   All times eastern. 9:37: On Fox News, Dr. Ben Carson says Trump needs to “up” his ground game or he is going to lose the GOP nomination. 9:15: Sen. Orrin Hatch says there’s “potential” for Paul Ryan to be drafted at an open convention. 9:10: Geraldo Rivera, in response to Cruz’s “New York values” remarks, accuses Cruz of  . 8:33: New Yorkers receptive to Kasich: Governor @JohnKasich being well received at a Brooklyn Town Hall right now. Lots of laughter and applause here. pic. twitter.   —   Jake Turx (@JakeTurx) April 7, 2016,  8:29: O’Reilly’s suggestion to Cruz: O’Reilly suggests Cruz hold a presser at Penn Station to highlight neglect by New York pols. ”It’s like New Delhi, India,” O’Reilly says.  —   Patrick Svitek (@PatrickSvitek) April 8, 2016,  7:50: On CNN, Rep. Peter King ( ) says Cruz is a “fraud” and a “phony” and his only accomplishment in the Senate has been shutting the government down and reading Dr. Seuss. He says he would vote for Cruz in a   battle because he would vote for his party’s nominee. But he says that he could never vote for Cruz in a GOP primary. King says he is deciding between Trump and Kasich in the NY primary. 7:35: In an interview with CBS’s Charlie Rose, Sanders concedes that Clinton does have a good resumer and years of experience but says he has a pretty good record too and is qualified to be president. 7:07: Bernie Sanders’s national press secretary shaking her damn head at Bill Clinton’s remarks: smdh. Clinton to #BlackLivesMatter protesters: ”You are defending the people who killed the lives you say matter. ” https:  .   —   Symone D. Sanders (@SymoneDSanders) April 7, 2016,  7:05: Cruz doesn’t regret slamming “New York values. ” He says he won’t apologize for attacking Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell. “Ain’t gonna happen,” he says. Ted Cruz says he doesn’t regret his ”New York values” comments https:  .  https:  .   —   CNN Politics (@CNNPolitics) April 7, 2016,  6:12: Sanders walking the streets of New York: . @BernieSanders decided to walk down the street to his next intv in NYC pic. twitter.   —   MaryAlice Parks (@maryaliceparks) April 7, 2016,  6:09: Cruz fundraiser may have broken election law: Cruz bundler gets awfully close to soliciting super PAC donations at campaign fundraiser https:  .   —   Patrick Svitek (@PatrickSvitek) April 7, 2016,  Report: A fundraiser for Ted Cruz may have broken election law by suggesting that supporters at an official event give unlimited donations to an allied super PAC, a recording obtained by POLITICO shows. “If you hit your max then we have a table for you that is the unlimited table,” Keet Lewis, a bundler for the campaign and   of a Dec. 30 fundraiser in Dallas, says on the recording provided to POLITICO. “It can take corporate dollars, it can take partnership dollars, and that’s the super PAC, Stand for Truth, so pick up some of that information. ” Campaigns and their agents are not allowed to solicit donations exceeding federal limits. The Federal Election Commission has said officials can direct donors to super PACs but only personally solicit for up to $5, 000. Lewis, however, is heard asking for unlimited and corporate dollars.   5:50: Cruz would “weep” if Trump and Clinton made it to the general election:   5:35: Cruz tours matzo bakery in New York: Ted Cruz tours matzo bakery in Brooklyn, rolls matzo https:  . :  .   —   NBC New York (@NBCNewYork) April 7, 2016,  4:41: Cruz campaign manager says Trump should drop out if he doesn’t get over 50% in New York’s primary. 4:38: Interesting points being made. Is Clinton sabotaging her wife’s campaign again? Watching Bill Clinton and protesters in Philly  …    this is not the message the Clinton camp has been pushing on the 1994 Crime Bill for months,  —   Abby D. Phillip (@abbydphillip) April 7, 2016,  So did @billclinton pretty much just double down on that ’super predators’ comment?  —   Eugene Scott (@Eugene_Scott) April 7, 2016,  4:25: White House backs Clinton’s qualifications: “The president has said that Secretary Clinton comes into this race with more experience than any other   president in recent campaign history,” White House spokesman Eric Schultz told reporters aboard Air Force One. 4:05: Sanders campaign 100% certain to contest convention if Clinton doesn’t clinch nomination before: new podcast: Sanders campaign manager says they will “100%” contest convention if Clinton doesn’t clinch https:  .  @jonkarl,  —   Rick Klein (@rickklein) April 7, 2016,  3:37: Kasich on New York values: Kasich defines ”New York values”: ”It means innovation, neighborhoods, great food, great people  —   it means everything.”  —   Thomas Kaplan (@thomaskaplan) April 7, 2016,  I think Kasich is enjoying the Bronx pic. twitter.   —   Jennifer Fermino (@jfermino) April 7, 2016,  3:16: Tavis Smiley again calls Trump a “racial arsonist. ” Smiley has ratcheted up his rhetoric against Trump after he published an   in which he said black voters may be receptive to Trump’s candidacy. When asked if black voters could still support Trump in the general election, Smiley refused to say that black voters will not support Trump. . @tavissmiley: Donald Trump is a ”racial arsonist” who’s ”going around setting racial fires” https:  .  https:  .   —   CNN Politics (@CNNPolitics) April 7, 2016,  3:11: Giuliani voting for Trump in NY primary. 2:55:   Protesters Interrupt Bill Clinton’s speech. One Had “Hillary Is a Murderer” Sign: . @OBrienMurray: ”I think Trump wins big in New York.” @TeamCavuto pic. twitter.   —   FOX Business (@FoxBusiness) April 7, 2016,  Protester resisting police at Bill Clinton event in Philly. pic. twitter.   —   Alex   (@aseitzwald) April 7, 2016,  Video: Clinton tellsBlack Lives Matter activists they are “defending the people who kill the lives you say matter. Tell the truth. ” 2:45: Jonathan Karl, who is one of the   guys for establishment Republicans, wonders if Paul Ryan’s new video is the first ad of his 2016 campaign (Ryan, like Rubio, sounds like he’s reciting   words pieced together)? 2:30: After reportedly threatening to quit if Trump’s staff continued to be amateur hour, Manafort will now manage all activities dealing with delegates: Trump announces campaign reorg, with Manafort heading all efforts for nomination and delegates pic. twitter.   —   Zeke Miller (@ZekeJMiller) April 7, 2016,  2:27: Trump going   in New  York: Campaign source tells me Trump cancelled event in CA to focus on winning all delegates in NY with goal of shrinking must win % from 60 to 52,  —   Jim Acosta (@Acosta) April 7, 2016,  If Trump camp is too weak to compete in conventions, game delegate process, going all in on NY area make some sense https:  .   —   Benjy Sarlin (@BenjySarlin) April 7, 2016,  2:25: Sanders blasts the media, again says Clinton is not qualified to be president because she is raising money from Wall Street and vows to fight back when the Clinton campaign “smears” him: “If Secretary Clinton thinks that just because I’m from a small state in Vermont and we’re gonna come here to New York and go to Pennsylvania and they’re gonna beat us up and they’re gonna go after us in some kind of really uncalled for way, that we’re not gonna fight back, well we got another  —   you know, they can guess again because that’s not the case,” Sanders said. “This campaign will fight back. ”   2:17: Kasich Super PAC goes after Cruz on his “New York values” line: 2:13 After Sanders accused Clinton of not being qualified for the White House, Clinton sends out a Tweet quoting Sanders’s praise of her: ”Clinton is one of the brightest people in Congress  she would be an excellent choice”  —  Sen. Sanders on Hillary as Sec. of State, Nov. 2008,  —   Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) April 7, 2016,  2:12: Michael Oren Accuses Sanders of “Blood Libel” and demands apology: Former Israeli Amb @DrMichaelOren demands @BernieSanders apologize for ”blood libel.” by @ishaantharoor https:  .   —   Josh Rogin (@joshrogin) April 7, 2016,  2:11: Bad national unfavorable numbers for Trump, who turned around his bad unfavorable numbers with Republicans when he started the race: BREAKING:   Poll finds seven in 10 people have an unfavorable view of Donald Trump: https:  .   —   The Associated Press (@AP) April 7, 2016,  2:10: Around 400 people show up to see Bill Clinton: Few hundred people awaiting Bill Clinton’s arrival at Dorothy Emanuel Rec Center in NW Philly #PAprimary pic. twitter.   —   Julia Terruso (@JuliaTerruso) April 7, 2016,  2:05: Sanders releases new campaign ad: 2:00: Hillary struggles with Subway card: Oh man. It took Hillary five swipes. Welcome to the struggle https:  .   —   Brett LoGiurato (@BrettLoGiurato) April 7, 2016,  