Planned Parenthood’s president, Cecile Richards, told Hillary Clinton supporters in Nevada that —  because of Obamacare —  55 million women in the United States are getting free birth control. [“The thing that’s important to me, because it’s really part of why this election is so important,” Richards said, “as a result of the long, hard fight for the Affordable Care Act, 55 million women in America are getting birth control —  and no  . ”  Need condoms but don’t have $$ to buy them? Stop by any of our health centers  pick some up at no cost! #CondomWeek pic. twitter.   —   PlannedParenthoodWPA (@PPWPA) February 17, 2016,  Planned Parenthood offers free birth control and gets reimbursed through federal taxpayer funds. The abortion giant has also been given Obamacare “navigator grants” —  federal funding just for helping people sign up for Obamacare. In an interview with Breitbart News last August, Rep. Diane Black, a member of the special House panel investigating Planned Parenthood’s involvement in aborted fetal tissue sales, explained that the abortion business gets federal funding from several sources. “One source is Title X, which is supposed to be funding for ‘healthy family planning,’” she said. “However, Planned Parenthood does over 327, 000 abortions a year. And if you look at the percentage of pregnancy services they give, 94% of their pregnancy services are abortions —  that’s not ‘healthy family planning. ’” “Planned Parenthood also receives Medicaid money, which is probably their greatest source of income they get from the federal government,” Black added. Since Obamacare is essentially an expansion of Medicaid, Planned Parenthood is invested in making sure President Obama’s signature healthcare program remains intact. The federal government gives taxpayer money to individual states to fund their Medicaid programs, along with a basic set of requirements of what must be covered. States, however, have flexibility in how they spend their Medicaid funding. About ten states have eliminated Planned Parenthood’s federal and taxpayer funding, despite the Obama administration’s threats against these states. Planned Parenthood’s latest annual report shows that while its services provided have declined, its overall revenue has grown. As Breitbart News reported: What did not drop in fact, what grew fairly well was government grants to the abortion giant. Planned Parenthood received a whopping $528. 4 million from the taxpayers in the previous year but got a 4. 8% bump to $553. 7 million in the fiscal year just concluded, even though a number of states moved to halt Planed Parenthood funding because of the   scandal that riveted the nation over the summer.   ✔️ Lifesaving cancer screenings ✔️ Birth control✔️ Sex education, Pretty wonderful.  https:  .   —   Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) February 18, 2016,  Planned Parenthood’s support of Clinton marks the first time the abortion business has endorsed a primary candidate.