Talk radio host Mark Levin, who has endorsed Republican presidential candidate Texas Senator Ted Cruz, declared, “I am not voting for Donald Trump. Period” and “count me as never Trump” on Friday.  Levin said that a couple of years ago, the Senate Conservatives Fund contacted his publisher to buy old copies of his book, “Liberty  Tyranny” to promote membership, something he wasn’t involved in. Levin defended this as “perfectly legitimate,” and done by many groups and authors, and as far as he knew, wasn’t bulk buying, and didn’t impact any lists. He further stated that whatever money he got from this sale was donated to charity. Levin then stated, “Roger Stone is a thug. He’s a sleazeball.   …     And he’s a hatchet man for Donald Trump. So he puts out this obscure article from this obscure website, that used that to claim that I’m bought and paid for by the establishment.   …     And in the article, they trash other people too, Beck, Erickson, I think there’s another fellow in there trashed, with these nutjob conspiracy theories, and just   lies. ” Levin continued, “Now, there are sleazeballs, like him, sleazeballs like Coulter, and sleazeballs like some talk show hosts, and I’m biting my tongue, who are so contemptible and pathetic, they want to use the most outrageous attacks on one of their colleagues to try and promote themselves. It’s truly pathetic. ” He then added, “Now, I’ve backed Cruz, and I’m going to continue to back Cruz, but here’s what I’m going to do. As a result of what the Trump supporters have attempted here, particularly Roger Stone, I am not voting for Donald Trump. Period.   …     And if anybody has a problem with that, Donald Trump, you can talk to Roger Stone. These bully, dirty tricks, Nixonian tactics, they’re only going to backfire. They’re only going to backfire. So, count me as never Trump. There’s been too much of this folks, way too much of this. The crap in the National Enquirer against Ted Cruz, the attacks on Michelle Fields, I mean, I can go right through the list, too much, too much, too much. At some point, you’ve got to stand up to it. ” Levin concluded, “And if they piss me off one more time, I’m going to urge millions and millions of you, should he get the nomination, not to vote for him either. ” And “‘Ooh, Roger Stone has nothing to do with the campaign.’ Oh yes he does. ” (  The Right Scoop) Follow Ian Hanchett on Twitter @IanHanchett