Rush Limbaugh disclosed his opinion of Facebooks’s meeting with conservatives during his Thursday show. [“Zuckerberg at Fakebook had the meeting with conservatives.  Chatsworth Osborne Jr. was one of them, he accepted the invitation and went out there,” Limbaugh joked. “I was not invited, folks. No. No. No.  Again, it’s what we talked about yesterday.  I think Zuckerberg, the people he invited  —   I would not have been invited to this. ”  “I’m too famous to go, too big for something like this. That’s not something that I could be invited to. Never gonna happen,” said Limbaugh. Limbaugh stated “there’s no such thing as an algorithm that’s not biased. ” “An algorithm is nothing more than a computer program written by human beings,” he explained. “And if a bunch of liberals are writing the algorithms, and if they don’t think they’re liberals, and if they don’t think they’re biased, and if they don’t think there’s anything particularly ideological about ’em, you have to understand a lot of people grow up liberal, that’s all they know.  That, to them, is normal.  That, to them, is what is. “And anything that’s not that is the circus act,” he said. “And so they grow up, they are normal, and there’s no reason they would include conservatism or whatever they think it is in their algorithms. “There’s no such thing as an apolitical liberal. They are defined by it.  They’re governed by it,” Limbaugh argued. “Fakebook and Google may as well have offices in the White House, in the West Wing, they’re there that much. “There are more Google visits on the White House logs than anybody else.  And Fakebook is in there as well,” he said. Breitbart News was contacted about attending the meeting with Zuckerberg but declined, with Executive Chairman Stephen K. Bannon and    Alex Marlow describing the event as a “pat conservatives on the head” session and a giant  . Breitbart Tech editor Milo Yiannopoulos also mocked the meeting, claiming that the attendees had been “cucked by Zuck” and “used as   by a corporation’s public relations department”. CPAC organiser Matt Schlapp and Sean Davis from The Federalist agreed, as well as Matt Drudge from the Drudge Report. Editor of the Daily Signal Robert Bluey, The Blaze founder Glenn Beck, and President of the Media Research Center Brent Bozell fought back against these allegations, however, with Bozell calling Yiannopoulos “silly” and “an embarrassment to Breitbart” for criticising the meeting.