Good morning.  Here’s what you need to know: •  “Brexit” has begun. Prime Minister Theresa May invoked Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty, putting Britain on track to leave the European Union in 2019 and upending the order established after World War II. Here’s what comes next in the country’s march into the unknown. The bloc loses its   economy, and hard questions abound about whether the pivot toward nationalism and   marks the start of a more volatile global era. _____ • China’s   media blasted the Trump administration for “brazenly shirking its responsibility on climate change. ” The country appeared ready to take up global leadership on the issue, which was ceded by the U. S. when President Trump ordered a rollback of environmental rules. Above, a coal furnace at a steel factory in Inner Mongolia. China’s moves to spread its global economic power  —   like an agreement this week by CEFC China Energy to buy a $100 million stake in a boutique investment bank in New York  —   may draw regulatory scrutiny. Separately, a veteran U. S. State Department official is facing charges over hiding ties to Chinese intelligence agents. _____ • “World War III. ” That was one Australian’s assessment the morning after Cyclone Debbie ravaged the northeast coast with   winds and, in some places, nearly 40 inches of rain in just 48 hours. More than 63, 000 people remain without power and damage to the Great Barrier Reef awaits calculation.   Queensland braces for high winds and rainfall today. _____ • In India, two attacks on African students, one by a mob, have raised questions about the country’s racial attitudes and its culture of lawlessness. A video of two students being savagely beaten at a mall circulated widely, prompting government denunciations and a pledge to investigate. Above, Indian police and Africans at the mall on Monday. _____ • The House investigation into possible Russian meddling in the presidential election appears stalled by partisan bickering, but the Senate  pledged to move forward with its own  —   and made a show of nonpartisan unity. We looked back at similar Cold War inquiries, when the hunt was for government spies working for Moscow, for lessons for today’s investigators. _____ • Anbang Insurance Group, the Chinese financial conglomerate, ended talks with the family of Jared Kushner, Mr. Trump’s    over possibly investing billions in a Manhattan skyscraper, 666 Fifth Ave. above. Democratic lawmakers had raised ethics questions, and Mr. Trump is preparing to meet President Xi Jinping at Mr. Trump’s    resort in Florida. • The Walt Disney Company parted ways with one of its former China executives, Meng Dekai, after opening an investigation into allegations that he had signed unauthorized deals with local governments. • Westinghouse Electric, which drove the development of nuclear energy and the electricity grid, filed for bankruptcy, as its corporate parent, Toshiba, tries to survive huge losses from troubled nuclear projects in the American South. • The European Commission blocked the $30 billion merger of the London Stock Exchange and Deutsche Börse that would have created Europe’s largest stock market operator. • The investing giant BlackRock is shifting from money managers to machines. “The old way of people sitting in a room picking stocks, thinking they are smarter than the next guy  —   that does not work anymore. ” • A new U. S. study suggests that, for every robot per thousand workers, up to six workers lost their jobs. • Samsung’s Galaxy S8, equipped with the   Bixby assistant, looks good, but must avoid battery problems. • U. S. stocks were mixed. Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • The price of ivory in China, the world’s biggest market for elephant tusks, has fallen sharply, which may spell a reprieve from the intense poaching of the past decade. [The New York Times] • China widened its crackdown on outsiders who engage with mainland rights lawyers and groups, detaining a Taiwanese activist. [The New York Times] • The U. S. secretary of state, Rex Tillerson, arrives in Turkey for discussions ahead of the expected attack on Raqqa, Syria, one of the last great stronghold of the Islamic State. [The New York Times] • France’s president, François Hollande, wrapped up an Asian tour with a pledge of $2. 6 billion in investments for Indonesia. [ABC News] • A plantation worker on the Indonesian island of Sulawesi was swallowed by a python, and the graphic video showing men cutting his body out has gone viral. [The New York Times] • The bodies of two U. N. researchers were found in a part of Congo where the army has been clashing with rebels. [The New York Times] • The Thai heir to the Red Bull fortune, built on the energy drink   by his grandfather, has kept up a   lifestyle despite charges in a fatal 2012    accident. [Associated Press] • Eleven elephants trapped in an old bomb crater in Cambodia helped push each other out, and villagers pulled the last one out with ropes. [BBC] • Is yoga a part of your morning routine? Here are some moves to make you strong. • For a   she has led the blind with chutzpah (and often, no cane). • A     marinade spiked with fresh citrus juice gives this sweet and spicy roast chicken its fiery character. • The most daring photographer in the Vietnam War is considered to be Catherine Leroy, the French journalist. She survived capture and likely saw the most time in combat of any photographer. She also endured rampant sexism. • “It is a kind of meditation in a way. ” In Norway, women are increasingly taking up hunting, a bastion of macho male culture, looking to connect with nature and the food chain. • And in Taiwan, the days of wealth and power are over for the Chinese Nationalist Party, or Kuomintang, and the party is scrambling to stay relevant. When Russia sold Alaska to the U. S. 150 years ago today, there was consternation on both sides of the Pacific. American critics railed at the principal negotiator, Secretary of State William Seward, calling the sale “Seward’s Folly” and “Seward’s Icebox. ” Russian newspapers are still decrying the deal. The Russians sold because they judged the territory a lost cause. Following the Crimean War with Britain during the   Moscow determined that Britain would take Alaska in any future conflict. The transaction cost the U. S. only $7. 2 million  —   approximately $125 million in today’s dollars  —   to the delight of at least one American paper. “We have made a fair trade,” argued The Charleston Daily News. The editors continued, waxing both righteous and pugnacious, that while Europe quarreled over “Eastern questions and German questions, Brother Jonathan”  —   a national personification and forebear of Uncle Sam  —   “can sit with sublime indifference on the top of the Alleghenies and spit his tobacco into either the Atlantic or Pacific, whittling huge California timber with a clasp knife made of iron out of his mountains, and mix his cobbler with lemons grown in his own tropics, and cooled with ice brought from his own Arctic circle. ” Evan Gershkovich contributed reporting. _____ Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.  What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes. com.