 Good morning. (Want to get California Today by email? Here’s the  .)  Today’s introduction comes to us from Adam Nagourney, the Los Angeles bureau chief. Asif Mahmood was born in a small village in rural Pakistan. He came to the United States 26 years ago to study medicine, and is today a pulmonologist in Pasadena. At age 56, he has decided to run for lieutenant governor of California. “The divisive and hateful agenda of Donald Trump compels me to run,” Dr. Mahmood said Tuesday in an interview. “I am a proud Muslim. I am a Muslim immigrant. I am from the state of California. I am a triple threat to Donald Trump. ” Dr. Mahmood will officially announce his first bid for public office Wednesday morning. The election is in November 2018. If elected, he would perhaps be the first Muslim to hold statewide office in California. That said, there are already a number of Muslims in public office across the country, including two Muslims in Congress, according to Mohammed Nadeem, the executive director of the Muslim Observer, which tracks these kinds of elections. (And in Michigan, a Muslim man is running for governor.) Lt. Gov. Gavin Newsom, the incumbent, is barred by term limits from seeking a third term he is running for governor. This is not one of the   jobs in the state, but, it can be a steppingstone for anyone hoping to run for governor. (Case in point: Mr. Newsom.) So far, only one other person, a state senator, has signaled that he’s running. Still, as a newcomer to politics, Dr. Mahmood certainly has an uphill climb here. He has retained Ace Smith, one of the state’s top Democratic political consultants, to run his race. Mr. Smith said Dr. Mahmood would probably need between $1 million to $3 million to mount a campaign, and seemed confident he could raise it. Dr. Mahmood said his experience as a doctor gave him credentials to campaign on health care reform. He did not dispute that he was a bit of a  . But Dr. Mahmood said he did not think his religion would be an obstacle in California, of all states. “There might be a small segment of people who feel that way,” he said. “But I am a proud Muslim and a proud immigrant and I love America. I deal with Americans every day. And when you help them they are totally appreciative of that. ” (Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.) • Representative Devin Nunes of California said he would continue to lead a House investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election, despite accusations from Democrats that he is too close to President Trump to conduct an impartial inquiry. [The New York Times] • Mr. Nunes “has surrendered his investigation’s integrity  —   and his own. ” [Frank Bruni | The New York Times] • Two   activists whose undercover videos accused Planned Parenthood doctors of selling fetal tissue were charged with 15 felonies by California prosecutors. [Los Angeles Times] • Hundreds of protesters greeted the country’s top immigration enforcement official during a Sacramento stop. [The Sacramento Bee] • President Trump’s executive order asks the Environmental Protection Agency to rewrite the rules on nationwide carbon emissions. How will that affect California’s energy industry? [KPCC] • Even as the White House hints at a crackdown on legal marijuana, California officials are determined to tackle the challenges facing the industry. [Politico] • In a speech in San Francisco, Hillary Clinton pushed women to stand up for their rights and castigated local companies with spotty records in gender equality. [The Mercury News] • Oakland city agencies had been alerted to problems at the halfway house where four people died Monday in a fire, but did not take decisive action. [San Francisco Chronicle] • After a string of scandals, Uber continued its mea culpa tour by releasing its first report detailing the composition of its work force. [The New York Times] • Facebook borrowed from Snapchat by rolling out its own Stories feature. [The New York Times] • At 82, Shirley MacLaine reflects on the golden age of Hollywood gossip, her quest for identity and the   of social media. [The New York Times] • The Raiders have one of the most loyal local followings in the N. F. L. yet that loyalty will be tested like never before. [The New York Times] • A pair of   concerts is set for Los Angeles and New York this summer, featuring Fleetwood Mac the Eagles Steely Dan the Doobie Brothers Journey and Earth, Wind and Fire. The first two shows will be held at Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles on July 15 and 16. [The New York Times] The vote to approve the Oakland Raiders’ move to Las Vegas, though expected by many, prompted outrage in the Bay Area and beyond. “See you, Mark Davis,” Ann Killion wrote in the San Francisco Chronicle. “Don’t let the door to our legendary, beautiful, thriving market hit you in the butt on the way out. ” For others, the move was a reminder of the first time the Raiders left Oakland. The team departed the Bay Area in 1982, decamping to Southern California. Los Angeles granted the team a larger cultural footprint, seen in the Raiders hats and jackets often worn by the rap group N. W. A. But the Raiders returned north 13 years later thanks to the promise of an expanded stadium. And many citizens of Raider Nation are hoping  —   and even outright expecting  —   that the team will once again return, maybe even within a decade or two. Want to submit a photo for possible publication? You can do it here. California Today goes live at 6 a. m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes. com. California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U. C. Berkeley.