YouTube has used its “hate speech” policy to remove a video posted by CounterJihad that exposed how the Muslim Brotherhood wages what it calls “Civilization Jihad” in America. [CounterJihad posted the   video, entitled “Killing for a Cause: Sharia Law  Civilization Jihad,” to Youtube on June 30. The film meticulously explains how the Muslim Brotherhood’s “Civilization Jihad” is a crusade to eliminate and destroy Western civilization from within.  Last Thursday, the video was posted to Facebook and has gone viral, garnering more than two million views.  YouTube explains its hate speech police, saying, “Hate speech refers to content that promotes violence or hatred against individuals or groups based on certain attributes, such as, race or ethnic origin, religion, disability, gender, age, veteran status, sexual   identity. ” However, Muslims like CounterJihad writer Shireen Qudosi say YouTube’s ban of videos like the one above only helps suppress helpful speech. “YouTube’s removal of CounterJihad’s factual analysis of the threat of ISIS and radical Islam is a devastating blow against credible   efforts,” Qudosi said. “No company or individual can legitimately say they support free speech and at the same time set up blockades against the very people doing the work necessary to counter the ideology. There is no other way to look at this. ” Robert Spencer, director of Jihad Watch, says the problem with YouTube and other online content distributers trying to police hate speech is the definition of “hate speech” varies greatly depending on the platform’s ideological underpinnings. “If a Leftist analyst who subscribes to the fantasy that the Muslim Brotherhood is a ‘firewall against extremism’ is doing the judging, he may think that the information below is ‘hate speech’  —   not because it is actually hateful, but because he opposes this message,” Spencer wrote Thursday at Jihad Watch. “The concept of ‘hate speech’ is, in reality, a tool of the powerful to silence and demonize their critics,” Spencer continued. “It has no place in a free society. This action by YouTube is ominous in the extreme, and is almost certainly the harbinger of much worse to come. ” The text of the video has been posted below: Terrorism seems to be everywhere, and it’s getting worse. The bad guys have lots of names —  ISIS,   Boko Haram —  but they have one thing in common. They are all killing for a cause: Islamic law known as Sharia. Sharia is a return to medieval Islam. Sharia demands a Holy War called Jihad. The most widely available book of Islamic law in English says: “Jihad means to war against  . ” There are two kinds of Jihad. Violent Jihad is horribly simple, slaughtering innocents and forcing submission. Violent jihadists want to conquer land for their Caliphate —  essentially an Islamic State where Sharia law is supreme. But there is another kind of Jihad. In their Explanatory Memorandum, the Muslim Brotherhood calls this “Civilization Jihad,” saying, “The [Muslim Brotherhood] must understand that their work in America is a kind of grand jihad in eliminating and destroying the Western civilization from within and ‘sabotaging’ its miserable house by their hands and the hands of the believers. ” Civilization Jihad has the same goal as the Violent Jihad —  to conquer land for their Caliphate —  but instead of waging war or staging terror attacks like their brothers in the violent jihad, these Civilization Jihadists wear suits and ties, and their work is much more subtle. So what do they do? They file lawsuits for Muslim truck drivers who don’t want to drive beer. They convince schools to hold Muslim Day, where the girls wear head scarves and the kids say Muslim prayers. They complain when our government watches to see if their violent buddies are hanging out with them. They call anyone critical of Islamic law an “Islamophobe,” a term they invented to make people scared to speak out —  like the neighbors of the terrorists in San Bernardino who knew something was wrong but didn’t want to say anything because they’d be accused of profiling. These bad guys have lots of names, too: the Council on   Relations (CAIR) the Muslim Student Association (MSA) and the Islamic Society of North America (ISNA). The Justice Department found that these groups were, in fact, started by the Muslim Brotherhood. These groups like to say that terrorism has no religion, but only Islam has Sharia and Jihad. Not all Muslims practice Sharia or support it, but an awful lot do. They believe that anyone who insults Islam can be killed they believe that women are property that gays should be killed and that little girls should be mutilated and forced to marry old men they’ve never met. These things are simply not allowed in our free society and are against the Constitution. There are plenty of modern Muslims who want to “live and let live,” but unfortunately, the groups that speak most often for the Muslim community follow the medieval version based on Sharia. They are working to make the U. S. more like the Caliphate. They have to go. Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson.