Breitbart Tech editor Milo Yiannopoulos appeared on Breitbart News Daily on SiriusXM Patriot Ch. 125 this morning to discuss his recent appearance at the University of Minnesota alongside Christina Hoff Sommers of the American Enterprise Institute. [Similarly to his speech at Rutgers University, the event faced attempts at disruption from   students. “Of course, at some point there are klaxons and   and all sorts of weird and wonderful noises from the auditorium, and people yelling ‘you’re an a**hole,’” recounted Yiannopoulos.  “I thought these people were all about free speech and open dialogue,” Breitbart News Executive Chairman and Breitbart News Daily host Stephen K. Bannon sarcastically interjected. “Why are they trying to shout you down?” “The left that embraced free speech and, dissidents, and thumbing their nose at the establishment  …     is very much a thing of the past,” continued Yiannopoulos. “That was the left of the 60s and the 70s, the campus radicals. The left today doesn’t like free speech very much, the left today prefers to shout down, to play the man and not the ball, to avoid anything it finds inconvenient. ” “But unfortunately, much of the world is inconvenient to the modern progressive left, because it simply doesn’t conform to the reality they like to describe,” he explained. “Most of what they say about race, most of what they say about gender, most of what they say about the economy just doesn’t bear scrutiny. ” “So you start to talk a little a bit about some of these things  —   and last night, we spoke about feminism, the excesses of the modern feminist movement, the way in which it can very often seem like little more than   and of course they don’t like that very much,” Yiannopoulos said. “And they don’t have arguments to present to you  —   what they instead what to do is shout you down, call you a bigot, say ‘get this hate speech off our campus. ’” “Everywhere I’m going on this tour so far seems to generate this sort of pandemonium,” he stated. “Milo, I timed it it took six minutes for the first airhorn to go off to try to disrupt what you’re saying,” Breitbart News Editor in Chief and Breitbart News Daily   Alex Marlow said. “Congratulations on generating that kind of drama, I know you fancy that sort of thing, but how stupid is this on their part that it just gives you everything want?” “If they wanted me to go away quietly, the smart thing would be to give me a media blackout,” Yiannopoulos replied. “Strategically, this is incredibly stupid. ” Listen to the full broadcast below: You can follow Allum Bokhari on Twitter, add him on Facebook, and download Milo Alert! for Android to be kept up to date on his latest articles.