John McCain was a pilot in Viet Nam and there is no question that he and his fellow POWs suffered immeasurably in the Hanoi Hilton.  For that we owe them all a debt of gratitude. [Yet that does not give any one person the right to do harm to our country from a legislative position nor to put others in peril around the world by   policy.  Since I have been in Congress, Senator John McCain has pushed an agenda ranging from blanket amnesty for illegal aliens to support for President Barrack Obama’s and then Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s disastrous Arab Spring endeavors that have made the United States much less safe as a result. Sen. McCain has been relentless in demanding amnesty for people illegally in this country long before Barrack Obama became president. He has refused to use his vast seniority and political power to safeguard the American people by securing the border, but has, instead, been the best friend   immigrants in this country could have. After President      Obama encouraged the ouster of United States ally and Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak in 2011, the radical Islamic group known internationally as the Muslim Brotherhood took over in Egypt, seeing to an election of one of their own, Mohamed Morsi.  While I was in Egypt, many people told me of the widespread atrocities, attacks on churches and massive suffering of Christians and Jews at the hands of the Muslim Brothers empowered by the Morsi presidency. Egypt’s Coptic Christian Pope Tawadros II told me it was the first time the Coptic Cathedral had been attacked in nearly 1, 000 years. Morsi was amassing power in disregard of the new Egyptian constitution and was on his way to becoming a dictator.  As the Egyptian protests continued to grow, the Muslim Brotherhood violence grew.  Then in June of 2013, a glorious thing happened. A protest began and grew into an estimated 33 million Egyptian Christians, Muslims and secularists. They went into the streets of Egypt in what has been described as the largest peaceful revolt in the history of the world. They demanded Morsi’s ouster, but this radical Egyptian president was undeterred.  Pope Tawadros II told me of two separate occasions of being moved to tears as moderate Muslim protesters against Morsi were in the streets apologizing to him for the widespread Christian persecution under the Morsi regime. Because the new Egyptian constitution, reportedly penned under advisement of the Obama administration, neglected to include an impeachment provision, the only way to get Morsi out of office was for enough people to demand the military remove him for treason.  The military finally removed him, and Morsi was jailed for an assortment of crimes. The Muslim Brotherhood was outraged and began a new wave of havoc and church burnings while demanding Morsi’s reinstatement.  Reportedly more than 70 churches and monasteries were set ablaze by Muslim Brotherhood supporters. Sen. McCain flew to Egypt in August of 2013 to stand with the Obama administration and the Muslim Brotherhood in demanding Morsi’s reinstatement as their corrupt, radical Islamist President. Fortunately, McCain’s wrongheaded efforts were not heeded by the Egyptian people because they did not want the radical Muslim Brother as a President. A new Constitution was written followed by the election of a new President of Egypt, Abdel Fattah   the military leader who heeded the demand of the largest peaceful uprising in the history of the world and removed the treasonous president.  Pope Tawadros II has since told me that President Sisi and the Egyptian army are actively helping to rebuild the churches. Some leaders in Israel have privately conveyed to me that this new Egyptian leader, whose removal McCain and Obama demanded, has done more to combat radical Islamic violence and terrorism than most any Egyptian leader in Israel’s modern history. Sen. McCain at one time showed support for dictator Muammar Qaddafi. While visiting Qaddafi in Libya in August of 2009, this tweet was sent from McCain’s official Senate office Twitter account: “@SenJohnMcCain: Late evening with Col. Qaddafi at his ‘ranch’ in Libya  —   interesting meeting with an interesting man. ”  He later sided with President Obama supporting Qaddafi’s removal, and even providing bombing support to rebels we knew contained al Qaeda. He did not seem to care, but continued his demand for siding with the Libyan rebels who have now helped create widespread chaos into surrounding countries. Indicating a further lack of judgment, one of Sen. McCain’s friends was former Libyan   leader Abdelhakim Belhadj, who the CIA had captured in 2004 and renditioned back to Libya. Ousting Qaddafi led to massive, widespread unrest in the entire region, yet Sen. McCain also insisted that President Obama remove Syrian President Bashar  . Had President Obama listened to McCain then, not only would Islamic radicals have taken over in Syria the way they initially did in Egypt, but innumerably more Syrians would be dead beyond the current 400, 000 body count. That would include those killed by Sen. McCain’s Syrian rebel friends who have been accused by international human rights groups of a number of human rights violations and war crimes. On the domestic front, McCain recently used a very heavy hand to push into the Defense Department bill a measure that forces women to register for the Selective Service so that women will be involuntarily drafted and sent to combat in times of war.  Senator McCain’s hair trigger temper became well known as he even was reported to have blown up, even using the   in his verbal assault in the face of another Republican Senator. We are indeed fortunate that Senator McCain is not regarded strongly enough that he has gotten his way with amnesty for those who have come illegally, women being drafted, the Muslim Brotherhood having more power, and groups who persecute Christians and Jews being empowered worldwide, to list only some of his misguided judgement. While acknowledging the sympathy he is due for his suffering in Viet Nam, I hope the voters of Arizona will rise up and stop John McCain from continuing to promote policies that are dangerous to the future of America and her allies. On August 30th, the prescription that has the best chance of curtailing suffering at home and abroad from the McCain wrongheaded, misguided,   judgment is to vote for Dr. Kelli Ward to be the Republican nominee for U. S. Senate. People of the world and the politically   citizens of the U. S. are praying that the people of Arizona will say, “enough is enough please come home, John McCain, take a rest, let Arizona, the nation and world recover. ” Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as State District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals of Texas. Listen to Congressman Gohmert discuss this on Breitbart News Daily on SiriusXM: 