The Republican National Committee’s Communications Director Sean Spicer tells Breitbart News it’s “unbelievable” and a “real disservice” that presidential debate moderator Lester Holt didn’t ask Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton about the Clinton Foundation’s alleged    scheme with the Department of State during Clinton’s time as secretary of state. [“That was unbelievable you have a scandal of this magnitude that directly impacts national security and it was unbelievable that that wasn’t asked,” Spicer told Breitbart News in the spin room after Monday night’s debate. “There were so many aspects of both national security [and]   . The idea that that didn’t get discussed or come up was sort of a real disservice. ”  “He didn’t ask about her emails,” Spicer added in disbelief. “He said, ‘Is there anything you would like to add?’ I mean, it was unbelievable. ” Gov. Mike Huckabee’s daughter Sarah Huckabee Sanders, who serves as one of Trump’s senior advisers, also spoke to Breitbart News about the omission of a question about the Clinton Foundation. “I thought Lester Holt had a really tough job tonight, but that was one of the few places I felt like he really had a couple of key issues he went after Trump on and ignored some of the big things  —   they called it the dirty laundry debate,” Sanders explained to Breitbart News. “Frankly, Hillary Clinton should have been asked those questions and I think it was a real problem for him tonight to go after Trump on certain things and to leave that out for her. ” The omission of a question about the Clinton Foundation comes after the Associated Press reported that more than 85 of the 154 people that met with Clinton during her time as secretary of state were Clinton Foundation donors. “More than half the people outside the government who met with Hillary Clinton while she was secretary of state gave money  —   either personally or through companies or groups  —   to the Clinton Foundation,” the Associated Press uncovered last month, adding,”It’s an extraordinary proportion indicating her possible ethics challenges if elected president. ” Sanders also criticized Clinton’s response to a question on cyber security. “It’s laughable that Hillary Clinton would even open her mouth to discuss cyber security,” Sanders jabbed. “She has zero credibility on this issue and frankly, she should be embarrassed to even talk about it given the amount of scandal and problems she’s had on that [  …    ] issue herself. ” Trump’s senior communications advisor Jason Miller stopped short of criticizing Holt for not asking about the Clinton Foundation, but he suggested there will be more evidence that comes out about Clinton’s scandals regarding her use of a private email server as secretary of state and the Clinton Foundation. “I think that Secretary Clinton is someone who has had five former employees and consultants now take the 5th Amendment  —   five  —   that’s a lot,” Miller told Breitbart News in the spin room after Monday’s debate. He continued: You don’t take immunity if you did nothing wrong. So clearly, we have the deleted emails, we have a foundation that was basically set up so they could and profit  —   enrich themselves  —   and also so they could turn the office of secretary of state into a big mess and    racket. We saw this in a study that over half of the people that came into met with her while she was secretary of state was a donor. I think that’s really problematic. “American voters realize that there’s something up with Secretary Clinton. You wouldn’t have five different people taking immunity deals if there wasn’t something wrong,” Miller added.