Why is everyone distorting or outright lying about Donald Trump’s record? [Why does no one compare Trump’s record with Hillary Clinton or Obama’s record?  Remember when Hillary held a press conference in front of Trump’s “failed” Atlantic City casinos? Well it’s time for Trump to run TV ads standing in front of the entire Middle East. Stand in front of the ruins of Syria, Libya and even Egypt. Hillary presided over all of it. But her bad decisions didn’t lose her a dime. Her failures burned   “Other People’s Money. ” To be specific, YOUR taxpayer money. Trump should run TV ads standing in front of the ruins of the Obamacare   and exchanges. They are almost all broke and busted. He should point out the disaster of Obamacare has cost hundreds of billions. But it didn’t cost Obama a dime. Because he blew YOUR taxpayer money. Now Hillary wants to expand Obamacare. Double down with YOUR money. Do you have any idea what guts it takes to invest your own money in a business? I’ve done it dozens of times. Donald Trump has done it thousands of times. Obama and Hillary have never done it in their lives. Now think of what balls it takes to invest hundreds of millions, or billions of dollars of your own money? Or to sign a personal guarantee for a $250   bank loan. Trump has done it.  Obama and Hillary have only spent billions of YOUR taxpayer money. Courageous   capitalists and patriots like Donald Trump should be congratulated  celebrated for their   and investment of their own   which pays almost all the taxes, pays almost all the bills of government, and creates almost all the jobs in America. But here’s the important point that 320 million Americans are not hearing or understanding. Sure Trump has failed a few times. But Obama and Hillary have failed too. And they haven’t lost millions or billions like Trump. They’ve lost trillions of dollars. The difference is they’ve never done it with their own money. They failed and lost trillions with YOUR money! Why does no one  …    including Donald Trump bring this up? I dare you to name one investment by Obama or Hillary that has worked? Go ahead. Try. I double dare you. Government loses billions on everything it does. Obama blew billions on green   dozens of failed companies. Remember Solydra? That was one of only dozens of green energy boondoggles Obama blew your taxpayer money on. Obama blew hundreds of billions on Obamacare. 13 of the 23 Obamacare State   Exchanges have failed (gone bust and broke). The remaining 10 have losses of over $200 million per year. The $1. 24 billion of federal   money used to start them all is most probably gone forever. It will never be repaid. Heck, he even blew billions on the original   of the Obamacare web site that did not work. And those billions of dollars of spending went to college friends of Michelle Obama, who ran foreign companies, that hired foreign workers. Obama blew TRILLIONS on his big investment in his first year in office called “the Stimulus”  that produced nothing. It started out as $800 billion. Today it has ballooned into trillions in losses.  Don’t forget Obama has recklessly “invested” a   in entitlement spending that led to $9 trillion in poisonous new debt. And what do we have to show for all this obscene, insane, unimaginable spending? GDP (Gross Domestic Product) is the only real determinate of economic growth. Barack Obama is the only president in the history of America to preside over 7 straight years of GDP growth under 3 percent. 2016 is off to a pace that virtually guarantees this will be the 8th straight year with GDP under 3 percent. If so, Obama will become the only president in America’s history to never produce a single year of 3 percent or higher GDP. The longest previous streak of under 3 percent GDP in the history of America was four years (1930 to 1933) during the depths of the Great Depression. From 1790 to 2000, America’s economy averaged GDP growth of 3. 79%. Obama’s eight years are on pace to average GDP of 1. 55 percent  —   substantially less than half of our country’s average economic growth for 210 years. For the first time in American history, more businesses are being destroyed each day than are being created. There are 70 percent more Americans collecting entitlement checks than working in the private sector (148 million “takers” vs. 86 million “makers”). This is a fact provided by the U. S. Census Bureau. In this Obama economy, 40 percent of American workers now earn less (adjusted for inflation) than a   minimum wage worker in 1968. 20 percent of U. S. families don’t have a single member who is employed. A record numbers of Americans are not in the workforce (more than 94 million): More Young Americans now live with their parents than at any time since the Great Depression. 43 percent of the 22 million student loan borrowers aren’t making any loan payments. Food stamp use under Obama is up by 43 percent. The number of new food stamp recipients under Obama is 3 times higher than new job recipients (13, 298, 000 added to food stamp rolls vs 4, 276, 000 new jobs since January 2009). The middle class has shrunk in 9 out of every 10 U. S. cities. Two thirds of Americans don’t have $500 for an emergency bill. The country is flat broke and busted  …    while Obama added $9 trillion in new debt. Obama is better than David Copperfield. He can make trillions disappear. And all of it is your money. Amazing. After the Presidency, Obama should open a magic show in Las Vegas! But Hillary is even worse. Hillary not only brags about Obama’s record  …    she says she will expand it. She is Obama on steroids. Hillary wants to spend more on the failed Obamacare exchanges. More on free education. More on free everything. Obama and Hillary are clinically insane. And all that failure has been with YOUR money  …    taxpayer money. Donald’s record is FAR better. Trump at least sometimes hits a winner. Or does his name on buildings all over the world  …    and “Celebrity Apprentice” the #1 rated reality TV franchise ever  …    and “The Art of the Deal” one of the   business books of    …    and $10 billion in net worth  …    not represent a few successes? Donald Trump has succeeded far more than he’s failed  …    but even the failures that Obama and Hillary bring up incessantly were with Trump’s own money, backed by his own assets. Trump puts his money where his mouth is. He’s never lost one dollar of YOUR money. But Obama and Hillary talk big. Free education. Free healthcare. Free phones. Free everything. Green energy investments by the billions. My question is  …    if they believe in all this nonsense so strongly, why don’t they put up their own money? Obama and Hillary are only bold when someone else is paying the bill. Trump is exactly the kind of President we need. Someone who has put his money where his mouth is. Someone who has succeeded with his own money. Someone who is cheap with a   because it’s always been his money he’s playing with. Someone who treats taxpayer money like it’s his. Right about now the lightbulb should be going off. Electing people like Obama and Hillary who fail nonstop with your money  …    who are careless and generous big spenders with your money  …     is exactly how we got to this moment in   with no middle class jobs GDP of close to zero more businesses closing each day than opening and a   $19 trillion in debt. I’m supporting the guy who has spent his life risking his own money, not yours. How about you?