At a rally for GOP presidential candidate Ted Cruz in Utah on Saturday, Glenn Beck chastised Southern Evangelical Christians for not supporting Cruz. “All throughout the South the Evangelicals are not listening to their God,” he said. [Beck, a Mormon convert, encouraged the largely Mormon audience in Utah to support Cruz in Tuesday’s election by appealing to their shared faith.  “Let me testify to you now,” Beck said. “The Book of Mormon is a book that was given to us for this time in this land. And it explains exactly what it’s going to look like when trouble comes. And I don’t know about you, but I can put new names against old names, and it all works. ” Beck continued: “So here’s what I’m saying to you  —   the reason why I’m bringing this up, and I’ve been wanting to say this for a very long time: Where the hell are the priesthood holders? Where are you? Thank you. It’s time to stand up. It’s time to stand up. You know what time it is. The priesthood is supposed to rise up and restore the Constitution. Now is that time. Period. ” As Beck explained on his radio show yesterday, the term “priesthood” is used by Mormons in much the same way as “the Body of Christ” is used by Protestants and Catholics to denote the community of the faithful who comprise the Church. “In our faith, we call this the priesthood it’s the men who have the priesthood blessing,” he explained. In his rally speech on Saturday, Beck expressed disappointment in Southern Evangelicals and encouraged his fellow Mormons to make a stand in Utah in support of Cruz: “The Book of Mormon trusts in you  —   that you will see these times and you will run to the truth. I come to you today to give you this message. Utah has an incredible opportunity. So many Christians have been standing up. But all throughout the South the Evangelicals are not listening to their God. Let us raise a standard in Utah. Let us do this one thing perfectly right. ” Beck made similar comments at another rally on Saturday, where he referenced his belief in a famous Mormon prophecy allegedly made by the Mormon founder Joseph Smith, which holds that the Mormons will play a key role in defending the Constitution during a dark period when the Constitution will be “almost destroyed” and “will hang like a thread as fine as a silk fiber. ” As the Salt Lake Tribune reported, “Beck said that he, like many Mormons, believe in a prophecy that the Constitution will hang by a thread in the last days. He said he believes that now is that time, and people like [Senator Mike] Lee and Cruz will save it. ” Watch the full video of Beck’s rally speech below: Follow Rebecca Mansour on Twitter @RAMansour