Radio host Dana Loesch, of Glenn Beck’s The Blaze, personally attacked Donald Trump supporter and CNN commentator Kayleigh McEnany, calling her “ . ” McEnany began the process of having a preventative mastectomy due to being BRCA1 positive. [Being BRCA1 positive means McEnany inherited a particular gene causing her to have an increased risk of developing certain types of cancer. Because eight of her aunts have had breast cancer, when McEnany was    she decided to begin the process of having the preventative mastectomy, according to the Daily Caller.  “I had implants put in,” McEnany said, adding that the next step is to have breast tissue removed. “I’m terrified every time I get an MRI   …     It’s haunting. ” She also said she will have her ovaries removed after she has children. McEnany said people that don’t support Trump aren’t really conservative, setting Loesch off on her radio show Monday, according to the Daily Caller. Loesch made fun of McEnany’s bleached blonde hair, as well as her teeth and flat chest. “While I don’t know her or anything about her, it changes nothing about the kind of environment Kayleigh believes is best for America or my point,” Loesch stated to The Mirror. “I know how horrible a disease cancer is: I lost both sets of grandparents, two aunts and two uncles on both sides to it and helped my family care for my   WWII veteran grandfather when the VA failed him. ” “Anyone who defends a candidate that has mocked a reporter’s disability, POWs, and blasted women as ‘bimbos’ with ‘blood coming out of their wherever’ surely has no problem with my addressing surrogates in a similar fashion,” added Loesch. Loesch didn’t appear sincerely apologetic though, suggesting her hurtful words would open McEnany’s eyes to the “kind of harm Trump’s words inflicts on others. ” “I’m sorry for the struggles she had, but perhaps being the ‘victim’ of my words can give her an insight into the kind of harm Trump’s words inflicts on others,” Loesch stated. One notable celebrity who underwent a mastectomy was Angelina Jolie, who cited being BRCA1 positive for the reason she decided to go through with the surgery. “I have always told them not to worry, but the truth is I carry a ‘faulty’ gene, BRCA1, which sharply increases my risk of developing breast cancer and ovarian cancer,” Jolie wrote in a 2013 New York Times   about her surgery. “My doctors estimated that I had an 87 percent risk of breast cancer and a 50 percent risk of ovarian cancer, although the risk is different in the case of each woman. ” “On April 27, I finished the three months of medical procedures that the mastectomies involved. During that time I have been able to keep this private and to carry on with my work,” Jolie added. “But I am writing about it now because I hope that other women can benefit from my experience. Cancer is still a word that strikes fear into people’s hearts, producing a deep sense of powerlessness. ”