Hillary Clinton took some fierce blows in Sunday night’s Democratic debate about her years of financial donations from Wall Street. [“I have doubts when people receive huge amounts of money from Wall Street,” Bernie Sanders said of his rival Clinton.  “The leader of Goldman Sachs is a billionaire,” who advocates that Congress cuts Social Security, Sanders said, adding “Secretary Clinton  …    you’ve received over $600, 000 in speaking fees from Goldman Sachs in one year” even though the firm paid fines for illegal behavior. “Not one of their executives is prosecuted while kids who smoke marijuana get a jail sentence,” he said. As Breitbart News has reported, Clinton’s    helped his buddy at Goldman Sachs get a   sent to Clinton at the State Department on behalf of a Goldman client. Clinton tried to tie herself to President Obama on the financial regulation issue. “President Obama has led our country out of the Great Recession,” Clinton said. “He [Sanders] called President Obama weak  …    I personally believe that President Obama’s work to push through the   bill and to sign it” was one of the “greatest regulatory schemes” to patrol Wall Street. “So I’m going to defend   and I’m going to defend President Obama,” Clinton said. Sanders countered that he’s friends with Obama, but Obama could not rein in Wall Street. “Senator Barack Obama was kind enough to campaign for me,” and vice versa, Sanders said. “He and I are friends  …     We have some differences of opinion  …     Ccan you really reform Wall Street when they are spending millions and millions of dollars?” Clinton hit Sanders’ fur alleged “confusion about your comments on President Obama  …     considering what you said about him in 2011. ” “Karl Rove, who started running an ad against me right now, funded by the   sector, sure thing, I’m the one they don’t want to be up against,” Clinton railed in one of her angriest debate moments so far. Martin O’Malley jumped in to bash Clinton. “What Secretary Clinton just said is actually not true,” O’Malley said. “Secretary Clinton I have a tremendous amount of respect for you but for you to say there’s no daylight between the three of us on this is just not true  …     you bring up president Obama in a debate here in South Carolina in order to defend your coziness with Wall Street. ” Clinton fought O’Malley, but O’Malley came out on top. “First of all, [columnist] Paul Krugman, [former Rep.] Barney Frank, others, have all endorsed my plan,” Clinton said. “You know, Governor, you have raised money on Wall Street. You raised a lot of money on Wall Street when you were head of the Democratic Governors Association. ” “Yeah, but I haven’t taken a penny this year,” O’Malley said to applause. “Go to martinomalley. com. ” OO. ready( function()  ) })