Three men broke through security at the International Bridge One crossing from Mexico into the center of Laredo, Texas, just as an interview with Breitbart Texas’ Brandon Darby was about to begin. [Video of 3 men jumping turnstile at U. S.  border mentioned by @brandondarby @BreitbartTexas pic. twitter.   —   Washington Journal (@cspanwj) June 1, 2016,   “We were setting up to do an interview with the Washington Journal about how bad border security is, and this happens right in front of us,” Darby said. The camera crew managed to capture the breach in border security as it happened. The three men were crossing the pedestrian cross way on the main bridge from Nuevo Laredo into the United States early Wednesday morning at about 4:30. Once they managed to bypass U. S. Customs and Border Protection officers and get out the gate, they were right in the middle of the busy town square of Laredo. Darby said CBP officers gave chase to the three men who illegal entered the country for an unknown reason. The officers lost the men in the crowded downtown area. Following is the Washington Journal interview with Darby that was shot just a few minutes later: In Laredo, TX, @cspanWJ sees  @brandondarby describes 3 men jumping @CustomsBorder turnstile at U. S.  border. https:  .   —   CSPAN (@cspan) June 1, 2016,  The video above is yet another illustration of the failure of our national border security policy. Three men were able to simply take of running and bypass a checkpoint where officers screen border crossers for drugs and criminal background. “This shows just how weak this border is,” Darby stated. “If you look below the bridge at the river, you see there is no wall there. People cross here every day and make a short run right into this area and disappear in the crowds. ” Darby has been leading the charge against the open border policy for years and has been bringing elected officials, candidates, other journalists, and political grassroots leaders to this area to show them   what the unsecured border feels like. The Breitbart Texas managing director invited other political leaders to take the “Breitbart Border Tour” in May after wrapping up a series of visits to the border with two congressional candidates. “They (political leaders) are beginning to come and get the Breitbart Border Tour,” he stated. “They are beginning to come and listen to the voices of the Border Patrol agents and feel what it feels like. ” He said that when they come to the border with him, “in the dark, with no lights, with no law enforcement presence and it’s going to be scary. And you know what, that’s what Border Patrol agents feel like. ” The video above is yet another illustration of the failure of our national border security policy. Three men were able to simply take of running and bypass a checkpoint where officers screen border crossers for drugs and criminal background. Editor’s Note: This article has been updated with additional media content. Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas and is a member of the original Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX.