A truck driver was shocked to discover three illegal immigrant stowaways on the roof of his 18 wheeler Friday night in south Texas. “It’s like, How many more’s coming out? It was like a clown box,” he said. [Bob Hollin, a commercial vegetable hauler from Grand Prairie, Texas, stopped at a truck stop in Edinburg. He, and his three pug dogs who travel with him, normally haul a load of vegetables from the Texas border town to Grand Rapids, Michigan, NBCDFW reported. As he was getting out of his truck, he thought he saw someone on the roof of his tractor’s cab.  The man stuck a mirror up in the air to look under the air dam on the roof of his cab. He was shocked to see a person hiding in the crawl space. “Stuck the mirror up here, and that’s when I noticed something wasn’t right and there was a body up here,” Hollin told the NBCDFW reporter. He quickly called the local police department. The responding officer checked the situation and ordered the person to come down from the dangerous location. A man crawled out of the space and began to climb down. A few seconds later, a second person appeared  —   a little girl. “I was really shocked and surprised,” Hollin told the reporter. Then another one appeared. The second little girl appeared out of the crawl space and climbed down. The police officer contacted U. S. Border Patrol agents. The responding agent determined that the trio were illegal aliens. They had no luggage  —   nothing but the clothes on their back, NBCDFW reported. Hollin learned the man hiding in his air dam was the father of the two little girls. They were headed to Houston. Had the truck driver not discovered the stowaways, their lives could have been in danger because he would have been driving in freezing conditions later that night. “Somebody’s going to get sick or die, especially young kids,” he concluded. The man and the two girls were taken into custody by a Border Patrol agent. There has been a massive increase in Family Unit Aliens (FMUA) apprehended in south Texas. Immigration officials announced on Friday that apprehensions of illegal immigrants including Unaccompanied Alien Children and FMUAs increased for the fifth consecutive month, Breitbart Texas reported. The man and his daughters will most likely be taken to the McAllen Border Patrol station for processing. Their country of origin was not mentioned in the NBCDFW report. Lana Shadwick is a writer and legal analyst for Breitbart Texas. She has served as a prosecutor and associate judge in Texas. Follow her on Twitter @LanaShadwick2.