Former UN Ambassador John Bolton spoke with Breitbart News Daily SiriusXM host Stephen K. Bannon about Hillary Clinton and grieving Benghazi mother Pat Smith Thursday, saying, “I don’t think [Hillary Clinton] can face Mrs. Smith today. ”[Continued Bolton, “Mrs. Smith and her agony and what she and the other families of the four Americans assassinated that day demonstrates is a failure of character on Hillary’s part. I really think it comes down to that. You can talk about Donald Trump all you want. Tested in a crisis situation, Hillary’s character failed. ”  “I think Mrs. Smith makes a very important point. Her son died in the service of our country working for Hillary Clinton, and she won’t even meet with her to talk about what happened. And I think the reason why the media doesn’t take it seriously is the media is going to do everything they can to elect Hillary,” he added. Asked if there was any chance of Pat Smith getting to the truth, said Bolton, “Not so long as Hillary Clinton is running for president, that’s for sure. ” Bolton continued: This is just total cowardice on Hillary’s part and I think it reflects the fact that she knows, deep inside, she knows that it was her failure that led to those deaths in Benghazi. She was Secretary of State, obviously Obama was President  —   the buck stops there. But these people worked for her and the line that she has used  —   ‘I had experts to worry about security matters and I didn’t dirty my hands with that sort of stuff’  —   is just absolutely wrong. I’ve worked for six different Secretaries of State. When they had people in dangerous postings in countries that were filled with civil strife, threatened by terrorism, you better believe they worried about the circumstances of their people out there. But Hillary was too busy doing other things  —   I think primarily running for President  —   and she knows the extent of her failure in the days before the September 11 attack. She knows her failure that day, as well, not doing everything she could to get help to them. And she knows she’s failed after that, too. I personally think she’s just not able to cope with it. Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00 a. m. to 9:00 a. m. Eastern. LISTEN: 