60 percent of registered voters believe that Iran has already violated the P5+1 nuclear deal with the United States or will do so in the future, according to a   national poll conducted on September 21, 2016 with 1, 560 registered across the United States. [Roughly the same number of Democrats strongly approve of the deal as the number who believe Iran has already cheated on the deal or will do so in the future.  Asked “Do you believe that Iran has already or will cheat on this agreement? ,” only 11 percent of respondents said no 29 percent said they were unsure of whether Iran would keep their word. Perhaps a reflection of this distrust, 46 percent of respondents said that they either “strongly disapprove” or “somewhat disapprove” of the Iran deal, while 37 percent responded that they either somewhat or strongly approved.  40 percent of respondents said they “strongly disapprove” of the nuclear deal with Iran. Approval of the nuclear deal and faith that Iran will abide by it fell largely by partisan lines. Democrats approved of the deal in significantly larger numbers than Republicans and Independents. 38. 3 percent of Democrats strongly approved of the deal, while 17. 3 percent “somewhat approve” of the deal.  About the same number of Democrats who approve of the deal believe Iran will cheat. 36. 5 percent said Iran will either cheat on the nuclear deal or already has. While the number is high, it is significantly lower than for those affiliated differently: 63. 6 percent of independents say Iran will cheat or already has, while 84. 4 percent of Republicans say the same. The Obama administration has heralded the Iran nuclear deal signed in July 2015 as the only way to guarantee the rogue Islamic state would not have access to nuclear power. President Barack Obama himself stated the deal was the only way to cut off “every pathway to a nuclear weapon. ” As the details of the deal have surfaced  —   including over a billion dollars paid in ransom to liberate American political prisoners in Iran  —   that proposition has come into question. Secret provisions appear to allow Iran to develop more advances uranium enriching centrifuges after 11 years, and the lifting of sanctions has allowed Iran to participate more fully in global markets, enriching the Islamic Republic’s despotic mullahs. Iran, meanwhile, has continually berated the United States for allegedly not holding up their provisions in the deal. During his address to the United Nations General Assembly Thursday, Iranian President Hassan Rouhani alleged that America had practiced a routine “lack of compliance” with the nuclear deal. “This experience demonstrated that the Zionist pressure groups could go as far as having US Congress pass indefensible legislations forcing the highest American judicial institution to violate   norms of international law,” Rouhani alleged, referring to U. S. Congressional moves to continue sanctioning the Islamic Republic for belligerent behavior towards both Israel and American military units in the Persian Gulf.  