A speaker at a massive Black Men for Bernie Sanders rally near the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia told the crowd on Wednesday to “watch the movie Clinton Cash. ” [“It’s a movie. It’s about Hillary Clinton. And it’s free, they’re not even charging you to see the truth,” the speaker said to the crowd.  Not certain where those interested can watch the explosive documentary film, someone in the crowd yelled, “YouTube!” “Watch the movie Clinton Cash” the Black Men for Bernie speaker said, adding, “the next time one of [Hillary Clinton’s] people run in your face, you say, ‘You need to check this out. ” “We need to start waking them up also,” the speaker said of Hillary Clinton supporters, “just like we’ve been woken up. “That’s what we do. We teach. ” Breitbart News is honored to present free of charge the Director’s Cut of Clinton Cash  —   the new documentary taking the internet by storm, based on Peter Schweizer’s bestselling book (now available in paperback) and graphic novel of the same name. Black Men for Bernie endorsed the motion picture adaptation of the explosive New York Times bestselling book Clinton Cash at their rally just as the definitive film exposing the Clinton Foundation’s global corruption was, again, sitting atop Facebook’s trending topics list. For three days straight, Clinton Cash has dominated the news and snagged the #1 spot on U. S. Facebook. The film has been viewed beyond the 1. 1 million mark in a matter of days. Due to the overwhelming amount of popularity, responses, and audience requests, Breitbart News decided to make Clinton Cash available for free forever. Now, all you have to do is click here to access the   film that exposes the alarming pattern of   speaking fees to Bill Clinton and donations to the Clinton Foundation from foreign contributors, which coincided with favors for those closest to the Clintons and their foundation donors while Hillary Clinton served as Secretary of State. Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson