Former Alaska governor Sarah Palin posted the following to her Facebook page:[Dirty Politics: Witnessing Firsthand It’s Always Heartbreaking, Never Surprising, Thank heavens Donald Trump opened so many eyes to the lies, corruption and total lack of accountability that come so naturally to the permanent political class. And Sen. Ted Cruz was spot on when he once noted that “millions of Americans are asking for accountability and truth. ” Which is why it’s so curious  —   and saddens us  —   this lack of accountability with the lies of Cruz’s own campaign. Cruz’s campaign chairman, U. S. Representative Steve King, is lying, and good for Dr. Ben Carson for calling this out. King, who’s previously asked for and received my endorsement, time and resources to support his own election, is still lying about my altruistic support of Mr. Trump, and he’s refused to provide any evidence to the contrary. And, this U. S. Congressman actually lied to his own constituents on behalf of Cruz, regarding a good man, Dr. Carson. He told voters Carson was dropping out of the Presidential race immediately before the Iowa caucus, causing a relative uproar inside the process, so the word would spread and he could rack up more votes for his candidate, Cruz. That’s a dirty trick. Dr. Carson deserved better. The voters deserved better! Where is the accountability for these political actions? Very sad typical Washington tactics. THIS is why “the status quo has got to go. ” Our friend Dr. Carson put it so well: “As Christians, of course we accept people’s apologies, we also have to ask ourselves is this acceptable to us, the American people, or should there be some accountability? There should be some consequences for things. You don’t just say ‘oh, okay, sorry  …     okay let’s move on.’ The damage was done to me, it wasn’t done to them. ” We’ve had eight years of a reckless President, accountable to no one, pushing this country to the brink. Why would we ever take a risk repeating that? We are never going to turn this country around if we keep electing “more of the same. ” Just like conservatives have been preaching in opposition to Obama’s political tactics for years: actions speak louder than words. The Cruz Campaign’s actions to destroy a good man’s efforts to serve are no different than Obama’s practice of not holding anyone accountable. Typical politics. Typical politicians. Here’s background:Ben Carson: Cruz’s Apology Needs Accountability: