Nine Malaysians who had been barred from leaving North Korea were allowed to depart on Thursday in a deal giving the North the remains of Kim   the slain half brother of its leader, the Malaysian government said. Under the deal, three suspects in Mr. Kim’s death were questioned in the case before being allowed to leave the North Korean embassy in Kuala Lumpur, the Malaysian police said Friday. The deal, announced by Prime Minister Najib Razak, ends a standoff that followed the Feb. 13 killing of Mr. Kim with a banned chemical weapon at Kuala Lumpur International Airport. Angered by Malaysia’s investigation of the killing, North Korea said on March 7 that Malaysians could not leave North Korea. Malaysia responded in kind. “I am pleased to announce that the nine Malaysians who had been barred from leaving North Korea have now been allowed to return to Malaysia,” Mr. Najib said on Thursday in a statement. Mr. Najib said that North Koreans who had been prohibited from leaving Malaysia would now be free to go. Among those leaving were the three North Korean suspects in Mr. Kim’s death. The Malaysian police said that as part of their investigation into the killing they recorded statements from the three before their departure. The nine Malaysians, diplomats and their relatives arrived in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia’s capital, early Friday. The United States Embassy in Malaysia released a statement Friday saying it was pleased that the Malaysians had been allowed to return home and criticizing North Korea for prohibiting their departure, a violation of international protocol. North Korea has maintained that the man killed was Kim Chol, the name on the passport he was carrying, and not Kim   the estranged brother of North Korea’s leader, Kim  . The North also suggested that the victim had died of a heart attack. The Malaysian police have arrested an Indonesian woman and a Vietnamese woman, and charged them with murder, accusing them of smearing VX nerve agent on Mr. Kim’s face. The police also identified seven North Korean men who they said had been involved in the plot. Four left the country after the attack.. Mr. Najib said the Malaysian authorities had obtained a letter from the family of Mr. Kim authorizing the transfer of his body to North Korea.