On Thursday’s Breitbart News Daily on SiriusXM, bestselling author Ed Klein discussed the revelations in his new book about the Clintons, Guilty as Sin: Uncovering New Evidence of Corruption and How Hillary Clinton and the Democrats Derailed the FBI Investigation. [Speaking with Breitbart    and SiriusXM host Alex Marlow, Klein said his new book “may sound like an easy read,” but he conducted “a huge amount of research” for it, including “well over two, three hundred interviews. ”  LISTEN: “And then of course, as Nora Ephron, the now late Nora Ephron used to say, ‘all good writing is rewriting,’” he added. “So this book has gone through my computer many, many times. If it’s a thriller, it’s because I’ve really tried to make it accessible  —   make this book Guilty as Sin accessible to a large audience, because the message is very important. ” Klein said that message, as the title makes clear, is: “Hillary is guilty as sin, has been guilty as sin, and if she becomes president, you can bet your bottom dollar that her four years will be one Hillary Clinton scandal after another, because wherever they go, the Clintons trail scandal behind them. ” Klein reviewed his history as a writer and editor, describing how he was ostracized from mainstream media after he began reporting extensively on the Clintons: When I was at the New York Times, and that’s a long time ago  —   I left the New York Times, believe it or not, in 1988  —   back then, the New York Times, it’s hard to remember, it was a straight newspaper. It was not in the tank for the Democratic Party.  It was a straight newspaper because the executive editor of the paper, Abe Rosenthal, had a famous saying: ‘I don’t care if you cover the circus, as long as you don’t sleep with the elephants.’ He meant by that, obviously, that you could cover the Democratic Party, that’s fine, but you can’t get into bed with these people. You have to have fairness, and distance, and detachment. That’s the way it used to be, and that’s the way I was, when I was there. Now, when I write about Hillary, and Bill, and the Clintons, and what they have been up to in this new book Guilty as Sin, I am bringing the same journalistic ethics to bear. These are facts in this book, and the facts speak for themselves  —   which is that Hillary in fact did jeopardize national security with her unsecure email server that Barack Obama knew about it all along during her time as Secretary of State and didn’t do anything about it, so he was complicit in this that she and Bill Clinton don’t even live in the same city, no less in the same house and that Bill has his own little love nest down in Little Rock, in his library. Klein is well aware his findings will be challenged because he used anonymous sources. “You can’t write contemporary political books without using anonymous sources because people won’t talk to you otherwise,” he said, noting the mainstream press has few qualms about the technique when anonymous sources provide information damaging to Republicans. Marlow asked him to elaborate on Bill Clinton’s presidential library, which Guilty as Sin describes as effectively a “bachelor pad. ”  Klein claimed Clinton wanted to add a swimming pool to his already “luxurious” accommodations, but had to settle for foot massages and impromptu wet   contests when his request was denied: Well, basically, the national media has ignored Bill Clinton down in Little Rock, where he spends almost half his time.  I went down there, and I interviewed two interns who worked there, and they were in their twenties. Both of them had been invited up to his penthouse apartment on the fifth floor of the William Jefferson Clinton Library, where he has his luxurious penthouse apartment that he uses for parties. Both of them have given Bill Clinton foot massages, no less. He kicks off his loafers and his socks, and they massage his feet. Now, he planned, and had an architect look into, building a swimming pool up there on the fifth floor, so that he could have naked pool parties, the way John F. Kennedy, his hero, used to have in the White House. And the National Archives said no way, we’re not going to let you do that, so it never came to fruition.  But he does, according to a source that I have who was at one of these parties with him, take out a garden hose from time to time and spray down these women, in kind of a wet   contest. Ed Klein’s blog and newspaper work can be found at his website, EdwardKlein. com. Guilty as Sin is now available from retailers such as Amazon. com and Barnes  Noble. Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00 a. m. to 9:00 a. m. Eastern. Listen to the full interview audio above.