In February of 2015, a Clinton campaign staffer detailed in an email uncovered by WikiLeaks that the Clinton Foundation had a $190, 000 pay gap between the highest paid men and women. [The email, which comes from the account of Hillary Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta, courtesy of WikiLeaks, shows staffer Karuna Seshasai writing to Ian Mandel, a Democratic operative, on the subject of the Equal Pay Foundation:  Attached is the equal pay hit pulled from the Foundation book. Essentially here are the key take aways: 3 out of the 11 highest paid employees of the Foundation are women. Avg salary of the highest paid men is $294, 157. 50, while the avg salary of the highest paid women is $181, 576. 66 ($112K difference) Median salary of the highest paid men is $346, 106, while the median salary of the highest paid women is $185, 386 ($190K difference) Chart and citations are on the attached doc. And I included the original &gt 2013 990, where the #s come from. Mandel had written previously to Clinton research director Tony Carrk and Clinton campaign manager Robbie Mook, warning them about the “huge discrepancies” in pay between men and women at the Clinton Foundation: Guys  —   Given the story yesterday about pay equity at the State Department, I wanted to flag something that came out of our research on pay equity at the Foundation. There are huge discrepancies, and it wouldn’t surprise me if they went here next. See a summary below from Karuna. The Washington Free Beacon had previously reported that Clinton’s Senate office also paid women “72 cents for each dollar paid to men,” showing more evidence that Clinton has not been watchful of “equal pay” as she claims to be on the presidential campaign trail. In fact, Hillary for America claims that the gender pay gap amounts to “workplace discrimination”: Women earn less than men across our economy —  and women of color often lose out the most. We should promote pay transparency across the economy and work to pass the Paycheck Fairness Act —  a bill Hillary introduced as senator —  to give women the tools they need to fight discrimination in the workforce. However, the Free Beacon reported that during Clinton’s years in the Senate, “the median annual salary for a woman working in Clinton’s office was $15, 708. 38 less than the median salary for a man, according to the analysis of data compiled from official Senate expenditure reports. ”