Breitbart Tech editor Milo Yiannopoulos spoke this morning with Alex Marlow on Breitbart News Daily about his Orlando press conference, at which he discussed Islam and gun rights in light of the recent nightclub shooting.[  Yiannopoulos argued that regressive attitudes are found throughout Muslim society, not just within small radical communities. According to a recent Gallup poll, an overwhelming number of British Muslims reject homosexuality. “In the UK, in a Gallup poll, a couple years ago, of 1, 001 Muslims surveyed, not one believed that homosexuality was an acceptable lifestyle choice. ” Echoing his remarks from yesterday’s Orlando press conference, which took place just blocks away from Pulse nightclub, Yiannopoulos reminded Marlow that polls have revealed that mainstream Muslims hold radical opinions. “39 percent of British Muslims believe that a woman should always obey her husband. 25 percent of British Muslims want Sharia law brought in in the UK  …    These are not terrorists  …    these are mainstream Muslims, this is ordinary Muslim society. ” Arguing for the preservation of gun rights, Yiannopoulos claimed that   zones are making American society more dangerous, particularly for minorities. This is true considering that 92% of mass public shootings between January 2009 and July 2014 took place in   zones.   zones are the most dangerous places in America.   zones are safe spaces for killers. They are spaces where you can go if you are a maniac and you want to mow down dozens of people before anyone is able to mount a response because nobody is prepared. It’s the worst place to be if you are a vulnerable minority and you are worried about lunatics   …     from the religion of peace. Yiannopoulos concluded by arguing that the radical elements of Islamic ideology aren’t compatible with our free and democratic Western society. “These people who were killed in that nightclub were Americans. “They were assaulted by someone who had acquired an assortment of views from an orthodoxy, from a religious culture that is profoundly antithetical to the American way of life. ”   zones are safe spaces for killers.  —   Milo Yiannopoulos ✘ (@Nero) June 16, 2016,  Tom Ciccotta writes about Free Speech and Intellectual Diversity for Breitbart. You can follow him on Twitter @tciccotta or on Facebook. You can email him at tciccotta@breitbart. com