Four teenage girls from a middle school in South Carolina were charged with possession of child porn. The arrests came after a    girl was cell phone videoed during a sexual assault. [Police in Greenville, South Carolina, arrested four teenage girls on charges related to having child porn video on their cell phones. The girls, from Four Riverside Middle School, also face charges of “disturbing school,” according to WPSA CBS7. The video captures the alleged sexual assault of a    girl who was reported to be intoxicated at a party over the weekend.  Another    has been charged with Criminal Sexual Conduct with a Minor, a 2nd Degree Felony in South Carolina, the local CBS affiliate reported. The incident was streamed live on FaceTime with another student who recorded the alleged assault and sent it to other student, KTRK ABC13 in Houston reported. One girl from the school said some of her classmates tried to share the video with her and she reportedly wanted nothing to do with it. The girl’s mother, Kristina Millner, told reporters the school district should bear some responsibility in the matter because of lax policies regarding cell phones in school. “If kids didn’t have their cell phones at school, maybe they would still have the pictures, you know they may still get in trouble but at least they’re not going to be bringing that crap into our school, and influencing other kids,” Millner said. Greer Police Department Lt. Cris Varner told reporters, “Hopefully it was a lesson, very unfortunate, but hopefully it is a lesson to watch what you post, watch what you even video. ” The Greenville County School District released the following statement to parents, WPSA reported: Four students from Riverside Middle School have been charged by Greer Police with Possession of Child Pornography. The four students have been suspended and will be recommended for expulsion. According to the Greer Police report, an alleged sexual assault occurred on Saturday, May 14th at a private residence in Greenville County. A FaceTime call was made from the residence by several students. The student who received the call recorded it and later sent the video to others. On Monday May 16th, some students at Riverside Middle began showing the video to other students. One student saw the video and reported it to a school official. The parents of any students who we are aware were directly exposed to the images or video have been contacted, and those students have received counseling and support from our school counselors and staff. Support services will continue to be available to any students who indicate they have a need. This is a difficult and complex issue for our school community to process. We encourage parents to discuss with their children the importance of internet safety. Police reportedly are searching ten cell phones that were seized from students. As many as sixty middle school students have been interviewed by police. The five students involve face possible prison time in connection to the alleged assault, videotaping and distribution of the video. Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas and is a member of the original Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX.