The best news about the revelation that one (only one?) of the Power Rangers may be gay has been the lack of calls to boycott the film. In the brief but    scene, the colorful teammates of the Yellow Ranger realize that she may be having girlfriend  —   not boyfriend  —   problems. It is a quiet moment and a small step forward for the representation of diverse sexuality in superhero movies. What stands out even more is that moviegoers didn’t bat an eye, propelling the film to a surprisingly strong $40. 5 million opening weekend. For   comic book fans, the current age of   heroes is a dream come true. The slate of coming films through 2020 even includes “  and the Wasp” from Marvel Studios and “Aquaman” from DC Entertainment, starring characters who in the past would be hard to imagine having their own movies. But where are the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender superheroes, who have been protecting the innocent for more than two decades? For anyone craving their stories on the big screen, as I do, there are no clear signs ahead. Some characters with   relationships in their back stories have made it to the movies, but those details have not yet made it out of the closet. “Iceman, Mystique and Catwoman are L. G. B. T. in the comic books, but appear straight onscreen. ” So begins a trailer for an imaginary film about a man who becomes a hero while also beginning a relationship with another man. The trailer, created by the young director Mike Buonaiuto, has its flaws, but there is something magical about its    handling of the lead characters. It is hard to picture a major superhero having a gay relationship in a film designed to be a blockbuster, to set up sequels and to sell ancillary merchandise. But it is comforting to know that some actors would be open to it. Andrew Garfield, who played Peter Parker and   in 2012 and 2014, raised the subject in an interview with Entertainment Weekly. “Why can’t we discover that Peter is exploring his sexuality?” he wondered. “Why can’t he be gay?” While it would be a risky and unlikely move for a franchise star like   (who is getting a reboot starring Tom Holland this summer) comic book publishers have a deep catalog of characters waiting for their big break onscreen, and heroes that have made the leap are ready to come out. Here are some suggestions, Hollywood. Gay heroes, assemble! YELLOW RANGER Comic book fans are notoriously impatient, and one scene in the new movie “Saban’s Power Rangers” won’t be enough for many. A review on the website Comics Alliance noted the awkwardness of the scene and said it was “hardly a declaration of Hollywood’s first gay superhero. ” But the producers of “Saban’s Power Rangers” optimistically envision five more movies. That leaves time for the Yellow Ranger to mightily morph into a confident young lesbian. CATWOMAN This feline fatale, who at various times is an ally, love interest or enemy of Batman, has been played on film by Lee Meriwether (1966) Michelle Pfeiffer (1992) Halle Berry (2004) and Anne Hathaway (2012). Then confirmation came in 2015 in the comics that Catwoman is bisexual. All it took was her hijacking Gotham City’s mob and consummating it with a kiss with the mob heiress Eiko Hasigawa. ICEMAN The tribulations of the outcast mutant   have often been used as allegories for the struggles of the oppressed. In “X2,” from 2003, Iceman (portrayed by Shawn Ashmore) comes out, but only about his superpowers. The scene resonated with gay viewers. “Have you ever tried not being a mutant?” his mother wondered. Twelve years later, the comic book character came out about his sexuality. And thanks to time travel, there are two versions of him (both gay) in the Marvel Universe. The conversation between his younger self pushing his older self to come out is worth a screen adaptation in itself. MYSTIQUE Comic books can be like soap operas, and the   Mystique (who has been portrayed by Rebecca Romijn and Jennifer Lawrence) has been through a lot: She led a mutant terrorist group, served as an operative of a government agency and suffered a mental breakdown. She is also the mother of Nightcrawler and was in a longtime relationship with Destiny, a female mutant who can see the future and who helped her raise Rogue, another  . Mystique is literally   so there’s a lot of potential for future stories. WONDER WOMAN It took nearly 75 years after her creation to arrive at this point, but the   version of Wonder Woman is bisexual. Two retellings of her origin last year made it clear that Diana of Themyscira, as she is known out of costume, had   relationships before she left her island home. The screen version of Wonder Woman (Gal Gadot) was the big winner in “Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice” last year, and hopes are high for her solo outing in June. I’m still rooting for Steve Trevor (Chris Pine) but acknowledging a less than 100 percent straight past for the most renowned heroine in comics would be seismic. NORTHSTAR “I am gay. ” With those words from 25 years ago, the mutant Northstar sparked a revolution in the depiction of gay heroes in comic books. An editorial in The New York Times welcomed the revelation. Northstar’s back story is rich: He is French Canadian, a ski champion and has a twin sister,   with a bipolar disorder and similar powers of flight and speed. In 2012, he married his boyfriend. AQUALAD Wonder Woman stole “Batman v Superman,” and history may repeat itself with Aquaman, thanks to his thrilling moments in the recently released trailer for “Justice League,” due in November. A solo film is scheduled for next year, and with a potential franchise in mind, producers will have to examine his supporting cast. Look no further than the recently reintroduced new Aqualad, the gay black son of one of Aquaman’s greatest villains. He’ll soon join some of his other fellow sidekicks in the comic Teen Titans. BATWOMAN After her debut in 1956, Kathy Kane eventually was part of a parade of characters (including     and an   imp,  ) sharing a famous mantle. Batwoman fell into obscurity and was murdered in 1979, but she returned in 2006 as a lesbian who had been discharged from the military. In 2013, the acclaimed creative team behind a Batwoman series left the title because of an editorial decision that prevented her from marrying her girlfriend. Her new series began in February, and she’s like a female James Bond, with the adventures and perhaps the dalliances to match. KEVIN KELLER He does not have special abilities, but Kevin Keller is still a hero to many fans. Archie Comics should be applauded for how this openly gay character has been depicted since his debut in 2010. He revealed himself as a matter of course and quickly became part of Archie’s gang. Today, Kevin has his own digital series, set a few years after college, which chronicles his efforts to find his path, professionally and romantically. The character is also part of the television series “Riverdale,” in which he is so accepted that even his father, the town’s sheriff, encourages him to find an equally nice guy to date.