Rick DeLano, producer and writer of the documentary film “The Principle,” talked about his film with SiriusXM host Stephen K. Bannon on Wednesday’s edition of Breitbart News Daily. [“In this time of political   why should somebody take time to watch your documentary, which is going to potentially change their entire view of the universe?” Bannon asked, posing what many philosophers would argue is a question that answers itself.  “You’re right, this is the whole ball of wax, let’s face it,” DeLano replied. “Until about 500 years ago, everybody in the world looked up and saw the Sun going across the sky and figured that’s what was actually happening. And, of course, Copernicus came along and said, no, that’s an illusion  —   we’re spinning around our axis once a day and going around the Sun once a year. ” “That smoothed out so many strange things that it was universally adopted,” DeLano said. “It’s one of the most fascinating things in the world, how we all had our view of reality completely inverted from the ancient view of us being the center and focus of the universe. ”  “Now, what’s really interesting  —   it’s ironic, in a way  —   we finally get to the point where we can build sensors, put them up in space far enough away from Earth that we can look out and see the absolute furthest stretches of this incredible massive universe of ours, and what we see  —   it’s almost comical. We see that on its very largest scales, this universe seems to be constructed in such a way that the whole darn thing, on its largest scales, is picking out a special direction  —   and it happens to be us!” he exclaimed.  DeLano elaborated on the discoveries explored by his film: What you have is that over the last 10 years, we have sent up sensors to examine what is called the cosmic microwave background. This is the largest structure in the universe. If you point your telescope out, you look as far as you can look, you get past all the galaxies, you get past all the quasars, you finally get back to this cosmic microwave background, which under present cosmology assumptions, it is the first light ever visible in the universe, 13. 8 billion years ago.  This should be a completely random residue, of course, of the Big Bang. Instead, what we see is, the darn thing is completely  . It’s not random. It picks out a special direction. It’s very planar. And, across the entire universe, it picks out a special direction.  There’s not supposed to be one. There’s supposed to be no up, no down, no left, no right, no special directions, no special locations  —   but there are. There is a special direction across the entire universe. The physicists have been calling it the ‘Axis of Evil,’ which is a unique and interesting name. But this Axis of Evil shouldn’t be there, and it is. It is pointing out a special direction, and it is related to us. Our supposedly insignificant, tiny pale blue dot Earth seems to be a focus  —   well, the way that Lawrence Krauss puts it in the film is that, you know, if these observations were true, he said at the time, this would mean that the entire universe is arranged around us. “What we know now is that it is true. We can disagree about what this might mean, but there’s really no longer any grounds to disagree about the fact that it’s there. It is there,” DeLano asserted. Bannon wondered why this remarkable discovery was left for the makers of a documentary film to explore, rather than being part of “a constant flow of discussion and debate on science websites or in science magazines. ” “It’s being actively suppressed,” said DeLano. “And that shouldn’t surprise you at all. If you watch the film, you’ll see that Michio Kaku, very famous cosmologist, states right into the camera that the dark matter issue was swept under the rug for 70 years. For 70 years they knew that the galaxies weren’t spinning according to the laws of gravity. That was kept completely hidden for 70 years, until they came up with an explanation that they could run with, which they now call ‘dark matter.’ This is much bigger than that. This drops that to complete insignificance. ”   “You’re gonna tell your kids one of two stories, because there are only two,” DeLano said of his movie’s significance to the common man. “The first one says that we’re an insignificant pale blue dot, that we’re the outcome of random physical processes, that we are absolutely nothing special  —   that there is absolutely nothing special about us or our location. ” “The other story is one that everybody in the world believed, up until Copernicus came along, which is that we are the actual focus and center of the entire creation,” he continued. “The fact that we have all gone from one to the other, over the past 500 years, is the most interesting detective story in history. It’s the subject of the film, and I would submit that the story we tell our young about who and what they are in the universe is far more important than getting to school on time. It’s a really interesting story. ” “The Principle” is available on DVD or   or can be viewed by streaming, from its website at ThePrinciple. com. It has also been made available for viewing on demand at ChristianCinema. com. DeLano announced the movie will be available from Amazon. com and iTunes shortly. Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00 a. m. to 9:00 a. m. Eastern. LISTEN:   