National Geographic released the first trailer for Leonardo DiCaprio’s climate change documentary Before the Flood on Tuesday. [The   clip follows the   Revenant actor as he travels the world to learn about and advocate for an end to   global warming. On the journey, the actor meets dignitaries and business leaders including President Obama, Pope Francis, John Kerry and Elon Musk in an attempt to learn more about what can be done to save the planet from the effects of climate change.   The film, which premiered at the Toronto International Film Festival earlier this month, is set to be screened on the White House’s South Lawn on October 3 as part of the inaugural South by South Lawn (SXSL) arts festival. Before the screening, DiCaprio will meet with President Obama and climate scientist Dr. Katharine Hayhoe for a conversation focusing on ways to end climate change. Before the Flood is directed by Fisher Stevens, who won an Oscar for his 2009 documentary The Cove. In an interview with Variety at the Toronto Film Festival, Stevens said the project had gotten off the ground when DiCaprio called him and expressed interest in making a climate change documentary, and added that the actor was the perfect ambassador to carry the film’s message. “He was made the Messenger of Peace for climate change by the U. N. so we kind of used that as our   for the movie,” Stevens said of DiCaprio’s involvement. “Leo’s an amazing voice. He looks great. He knows a lot. I was shocked at how much Leo knew about the subject before we even started filming. ” The release of Before the Flood comes as DiCaprio has faced increased scrutiny over his environmental foundation’s reported connections to wealthy donors involved in a $3 billion Malaysian embezzlement scheme. Environmental activist groups have called on the actor to return some donations alleged to have been funded with money misappropriated from a Malaysian sovereign wealth fund. National Geographic opens Before the Flood in select theaters October 21.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum