Rep. Louie Gohmert ( ) took to the United States House floor on Thursday afternoon to express criticism of GOP frontrunner Donald Trump’s comments about the North Carolina bathroom law that prohibits transgenders from using public restrooms, which Trump opposes. [After talking about the need for fair, free elections across the world and stressing the importance of stopping the expansion of radical Islamic extremism, Gohmert said, “North Carolina has gotten a bad [reputation]. ”  Recently, North Carolina’s Gov. Pat McCrory signed a bill that blocks “cities from allowing transgender individuals to use public bathrooms for the sex they identify as  —   as well as restricting cities from passing nondiscrimination laws more broadly. ” On Thursday morning, Trump was asked on NBC’s Today Show about the North Carolina legislation and said transgenders should “use the bathroom that they feel is appropriate,” adding that he opposes North Carolina’s law. “North Carolina did something that was very strong and they’re paying a big price. And there’s a lot of problems,” Trump stated. Leave it the way it is. North Carolina, what they’re going through, with all of the business and all of the strife  —   and that’s on both sides  —   you leave it the way it is. There have been very few complaints the way it is. People go, they use the bathroom that they feel is appropriate. There has been so little trouble. And the problem with what happened in North Carolina is the strife and the economic punishment they’re taking. “Who are they trying to protect in North Carolina? They’re trying to protect innocent kids that cannot protect themselves,” Gohmert fired back. “Why condemn North Carolina when they’re just trying to protect the privacy of girls?” “It’s incredible that people are outraged at North Carolina,” he added. “Common sense [is] no longer common. ” He expressed astonishment that the Republican frontrunner for president “even says North Carolina should not have taken action [that] in essence says men, which would include sexual predators, should not be [allowed] to go into women restrooms  …    he wanted it left how it was. ” “That’s the position of the leading Republican candidate? I don’t know. Hopefully, that will be another one of the positions that he’ll change,” Gohmert challenged.