Speaking on The Mike Slater Show with Mike Slater, Breitbart Tech editor Milo Yiannopoulos urged gays to toughen up, and seek solutions, not solace and   “ ” from conservatives in the wake of the homophobic Muslim attack in Orlando last weekend.[  (760kfmb with The Mike Slater Show) Responding to a comment from a gay caller from the Log Cabin Republicans who suggested that conservatives were not being “compassionate” enough to the gay community in the wake of the Orlando shootings, Milo argued that it was the duty of conservatives to provide solutions, not emotional gestures. “This is the worst thing about being gay in America” said Milo. “Ungrateful other gay people, these whiny people who expect everybody to pander to their feelings all the time. ” Milo went on to defend the record of Conservatism in looking out for gay people. “It is conservatives who have been standing up for western, liberal, democratic, capitalistic society, the free society that has given gays freedom, that has given women the vote. Minorities have been enabled by nothing more than the first and second amendment that conservatives defend. ” “I don’t know how many conservatives he knows outside of this Log Cabin thing   …     My god, these Log Cabin [Republicans]   …     They’re so whiny! I don’t know how many he knows, but I went down to Orlando and Billy Graham’s people asked to pray for me, and I was happy to do that, very gratified by that. Conservatives are hugely compassionate!” “And by the way, the presumptive Republican nominee right now is probably the most   rights Republican in the history of the party and he’s running for office. What more do you want? Trump is massively   massively   he’s got a huge cult gay following. ” “Yeah fine, [there are] these old establishment Republicans, these   old losers who were on the way out anyway,   olds who have no touch with their own base, whose listeners and audiences are all   plus. I mean fine, they’re not bad people but they’re not the future of the party. ” “There are of course so many young people who got involved in the Trump campaign, they’re on Twitter, they’re new media figures  …     We might not be like totally down with the gay thing, but we’ll certainly defend the rights of gay people to be protected from Muslims. I don’t know who this guy’s listening to. ” “He’s looking for the sort of gushing liberal feelings festival on the right that they indulge in after every tragedy on the left. Well there’s a reason why we don’t do it on the right, because we’re actually looking for solutions. We’re not looking to make people feel better, we’re looking for the facts and how to stop it happening again. I’m sorry if we’re not   enough for this gay guy, I’m sorry we we’re not going to sit down and hold his hand and ask “is this OK?”  —   he’s got family to do that, he’s got friends to do that. ” “What people look for in conservative politicians is leadership, people who are actually going to get things done. People who understand numbers, who understand foreign policy, people who can run a government properly. That’s what we like about conservatives. Conservatives are not there to sit down with you at the coffee table, to pat your head and  make you a cup of tea. I think he’s looking in the wrong place for solace if he wants that. ”