Donald Trump spoke about the violent riots that have plagued the country during a speech on law and order in West Bend, Wisconsin on Tuesday, promising safety for all Americans and appealing to African Americans. [“Law and order must be restored  …    it must be restored for the sake of all, but most especially for those living in the affected communities,” Trump stressed. “The main victims of these riots are law abiding African American citizens living in these neighborhoods. ”  “Crime and violence is an attack on the poor and will never be accepted in a Trump administration,” Trump vowed. “The war on our police must end and it must end now,” Trump demanded, blaming the narrative against police on Democrats and Hillary Clinton, whom he called the “personification of special interest corruption. ” “A vote for her is a vote for another generation of poverty, high crime, and lost opportunities,” he jabbed. “I believe all Americans, not just the powerful, are entitled to security  …    Hillary Clinton has had her chance. She’s failed at so many things  —   almost everything she’s done. Now, it’s time for new leadership,” Trump declared, saying it’s the government’s duty to keep citizens safe. I’m asking for the vote of every African American citizen struggling in our country today that wants a different and much better future. It’s time for our society to address some honest and very difficult truths. The Democrat Party has failed and betrayed the African American community. The New Yorker said the Democrats have taken advantage of African American voters for decades. We reject the bigotry of Hillary Clinton, which panders to, and talks down to communities of color and sees them only as votes  —   that’s all they care about  —   not as individual human beings worthy of a better future. They have taken advantage. She doesn’t care at all about the hurting people of this country. “It’s time for rule by the people, not rule for the special interest, which we have right now,” he stated. “I’m fighting for you” and for “peaceful regime change in our own country. ”