Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump is targeting what he calls Hillary Clinton’s “corrupt criminal syndicate. ”[“‘I am a victim of one of the great political smear campaigns in our country,” Trump told a crowd of supporters in Charlotte. “They are coming after me to try and destroy what is considered by even them (points to the media section) the greatest movement in the history of our country. There’s never been anything been anything like this. ”  As the crowd cheered, Trump added: Bill O’Reilly and others have said it’s the single biggest political phenomena in his lifetime, and others have said the same thing. The political establishment is trying to stop us, because they know we are a threat to their totally corrupt control. It’s true. No one is more corrupt than crooked Hillary Clinton. Nobody. In fact, she’s the most corrupt person to ever seek the presidency of the United States of America. And her specialty, if you look over the years, has been character assassination, and really, personally, just going after people. That’s her specialty. She’s been doing it her whole career. The only force strong enough to smash Clinton’s corrupt criminal syndicate is you, the American voter. “After many, many years, even decades, without complaint, the media and the Clinton campaign have brought forward false allegations less than a month before the most important election in modern times,” he said. The crowd booed. “These allegations are one hundred percent false, as everybody —  I think you know. I think you get it. ” “They’re made up. They never happened. When have you met tens of thousands of people as I have? —  and I’ve met thousands and thousands and thousands of people —  know them, know them well. It’s not hard to find a small handful of people willing to make false smears for personal fame,” he said. “Who knows, maybe for financial reasons. Political purposes. Or, for the simple reason they want to stop our movement. They want to stop our campaign. Very simple. ” These claims defy reason, logic, common sense. They’re made without supporting witnesses. No witnesses.   years ago. Ten years ago, 14 years ago, 12 years ago. Not me. Believe me, not me, not me. You would be very impressed, actually, with my life in so many regards, including that regard. Not a single shred of evidence. Eyewitnesses have already debunked the wild and ludicrous allegations of a magazine article that appeared, and I’ll tell you what, it was just incredible. It was People magazine, and the article appeared, and a statement was made. But if it’s true, they would have put it in the article. They would have had to put it into the article. But they didn’t do that. And they didn’t do that for a simple reason: Because it never happened, twelve years ago. Never complained, never talked to the bosses. “All of a sudden, two nights ago, we get a call, and the call is from People magazine,” he continued. “They didn’t even want a quote. I think maybe what we should do is boycott that issue of People magazine. ” So that’s the way it is. I just want to tell you folks, it is a campaign that’s amazing, and I’m not going to be talking about it much because we’re talking about other things, and we have to talk about other things. But if affects five percent, or two percent, or ten percent, or —  it’s all false stuff. It’s all a concerted effort. And I think it’s the only way they’re going to stop us. The only way. And I don’t think that’s going to happen. At that point, the crowd booed as demonstrators were escorted out of the rally. “That’s the only way we get the cameras to turn!” Trump said as newsmen panned the rally, looking for the protesters. On Thursday, Trump targeted the leftist press in a blistering speech for rolling out women who sought to accuse him of inappropriate touching less than a month before election day. This election will determine whether we are a free nation or whether we have only the illusion of democracy, but are in fact controlled by a small handful of global special interests rigging the system, and our system is rigged. This is reality, you know it, they know it, I know it, and pretty much the whole world knows it. The establishment and their media enablers will control over this nation through means that are very well known. Anyone who challenges their control is deemed a sexist, a racist, a xenophobe, and morally deformed,” Trump said in West Palm Beach, Florida. “They will attack you, they will slander you, they will seek to destroy your career and your family, they will seek to destroy everything about you, including your reputation. They will lie, lie, lie, and then again they will do worse than that, they will do whatever is necessary. The Clintons are criminals, remember that. They’re criminals.