TEL AVIV  —   When the Islamic State throws gay men from rooftops, they are simply enacting “the laws of Allah and of his Prophet,” a top Islamic   jihadist in the Gaza Strip exclaimed in an interview. [Abu     a Salafist movement senior official in the Gaza Strip, was asked about the murderous,   practice and was also petitioned to comment on the selection of the Pulse gay night club as the target in Sunday’s deadly mass terrorist shooting.  Ansari made the remarks in an interview that aired Sunday night on this reporter’s radio talk show, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio,” broadcast on New York’s AM 970 The Answer ad NewsTalk 990 AM in Philadelphia. Stated Ansari: When the Islamic State throws gays from the roofs, it is not a sanction that they decided upon. This is our Sharia. These are the laws of Allah that were made by Allah and implemented by his Prophet and our brothers in the Islamic State are only implementing these laws and instructions of Allah and of his Prophet. Regarding the targeting of a gay night club, Ansari said: Now for the target. It is known that gays are people who are challenging Allah. Who are not respecting his instruction. Who are spreading corruption and immorality all around. But I don’t believe they were the target. American and the infidels in America were the target.   …    I don’t have any specific information about this specific target but I can tell you from my knowledge that the general goal was the Americans, the Crusaders, the Infidels who are leading this coalition with some Arab countries against the Islamic State. Ansari sated that    Omar Mateen, who reportedly swore allegiance to IS, “followed the call that was made by Sheikh Abu Mohammad   the spokesperson of the Islamic State, who called upon the mujahedeen all around the world to carry out these kinds of attacks in order to sanction and to retaliate to the coalition that is striking and attacking the Islamic State. ” On Sunday, the Amaq News Agency, which is closely affiliated with the Islamic State, reported Mateen was an IS fighter. Obama, however, stated on Monday there is no evidence yet that Mateen was part of a broader terrorist plot or that he was directed from abroad. Obama said it appeared Mateen was “inspired by various extremist information that was disseminated over the Internet. ” “At this stage we see no clear evidence that he was directed externally,” he added. “It does appear that at the last minute he announced allegiance to ISIL, but there is no evidence so far that he was in fact directed by them,” continued Obama. “There’s also no direct evidence that he was part of a larger plot. ” Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio. ” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.