Jaden Smith, the   teen son of Will and Jada Pinkett Smith, doesn’t see the big fuss about men wearing feminine clothing and hopes to transform the world into a “utopia,” in part by freeing people from bills and other financial obligations. [In a recent interview for the upcoming edition of British GQ Style, the    said, “I don’t see man clothes and woman clothes. ”  “I feel like people are kind of confused about gender norms. I feel like people don’t really get it. I’m not saying that I get it,” Smith continued. “I’m just saying that I’ve never seen any distinction. I don’t see man clothes and woman clothes, I just see scared people and comfortable people. ” The Hollywood scion, who previously compared himself to Italian astronomer Galileo and announced plans to build an   pyramid, also told GQ he wants to make the world “a utopia. ” “I’m really working towards just fixing the whole planet Earth. I really just want to create a utopia on this planet. I really want to make it so that people don’t have to die to pay bills and just work to survive. ” Smith added: “So that they can work to actually live and do the things that they love to do. ” Jade Smith was introduced as the new face of Louis Vuitton’s   2016 women’s collection, back in January. Weeks later, he appeared in a gender fluid fashion ad for Vogue Korea.  Happy to introduce Jaden Smith @christiaingrey in the new SS16 @louisvuitton ad Campaign photographed by Bruce Weber, A photo posted by  (@nicolasghesquiere) on Jan 2, 2016 at 3:33pm PST,   ”Just Come Here” A photo posted by Jaden Smith (@christiaingrey) on Jan 25, 2016 at 3:20pm PST,  The teen perviously told GQ skirts and dresses make him feel like a “super hero. ” I’m just expressing how I feel inside, which is really no particular way because everyday it changes how I feel about the world and myself, but I like wearing super drapey things so I can feel as though I’m a super hero, but don’t have to necessarily wear super hero costumes everyday. Jaden’s father, Will Smith, described his son as “fearless” last month  —   but also surrendered that he and his wife “may have gone too far” in allowing their children the freedom to express themselves. The Concussion star concluded: “Jaden is 100 percent fearless. He will do anything. As a parent it’s scary  —   it’s really terrifying, but he is completely willing to live and die by his own artistic decisions and he doesn’t concern himself with what people think. ”