In the final hours before voters across the nation will select the next President, many veterans who attained the rank of General are trying to get the word out that Democrat nominee Hillary Clinton is a criminal who is unfit to serve as commander in chief. [Clinton’s mishandling of classified information, illegal    schemes involving the Clinton campaign and Clinton Foundation, and her foreign policy failures as Secretary of State leave her unfit to serve as    several generals told Breitbart News.  Trump was endorsed by 88 former Generals and Admirals in September and that number has now grown to more than 200. Retired Army Brigadier General Ernie Audino is a Senior Military Fellow at the London Center for Policy Research. He is the only U. S. Army General to have served a year as a combat advisor embedded in a Kurdish Peshmerga brigade. He explained what would have happened to him or someone in his command if they had been “extremely reckless” handling classified information. There is no question that my career as a US Army officer would have ended. Period. I would have gone from General to Mister practically overnight. Saying, “Oops, I didn’t meant to,” while perhaps interesting, would be less than meaningless. Public servants, and especially military leaders, are held to a high standard. The lives of brave Americans demand it. It is our duty to ensure such leakage of classified material never occurs on our watch, and if it occurs intentionally, then prepare for an all expenses paid visit to the prison at Fort Leavenworth. Retired Airforce Major General Bentley Rayburn has campaigned for Trump in Colorado and joined about two dozen other Generals, Admirals, and Medal of Honor Recipients in North Carolina in the final week before the campaign. General Rayburn didn’t mince his words calling Clinton a “criminal” and explained how he had to fire a secretary for far less damaging breaches of classified protocol. “Hillary is a criminal. The way she handled classified information is criminal and to have a commander in chief who so blatantly disregarded those national security procedures would be a big problem for the military,” Rayburn said. Asked if he expects people charged with mishandling classified information to use the “Hillary defense,” General Rayburn scoffed, “They already have. They didn’t get very far because their last name isn’t Clinton. ” Retired Army Lt. General Michael Flynn told Breitbart News that Clinton placed the country in “grave risk” with her handling of State secrets. “It was a violation of the law. It’s not just violation of State Department guidelines,” Flynn told SiriusXM host Matthew Boyle. “Let’s forget about the pedophilia, let’s forget about the Clinton Foundation for a second and let’s focus on Hillary Clinton’s grave risk that she’s placed our country at by using a private server to do business at the most sensitive levels of our government. ” The General’s issues with Clinton don’t end with Clinton’s “extremely reckless” handling of classified information. Clinton’s foreign policy during her tenure as Secretary of State in the Obama administration was characterized as “terrible,” “awful,” and “a disaster” by the Generals. “Even if you could set aside the classified information breaches, her foreign policy during her time as Secretary of State  —  ” General Rayburn said. “It’s clear they didn’t understand the situation in the   and made a mess of it. They rushed out of Iraq by failing to get a Status of Forces agreement. They didn’t understand the Arab Spring. They didn’t understand the divide between Sunni and Shia. They didn’t understand or stop the persecution of Christians. Foreign Policy under Clinton and Obama was terrible and if God forbid she gets in office it will still be terrible. ” General Audino worried that the   strategy of alienating our allies and embracing our enemies would continue under a Clinton presidency. While she was Secretary of State, U. S. foreign policy left our   allies wondering if we had their back. They are wondering if they can ever trust the USA again. Egypt is wondering if we’ve got their back.  Saudi Arabia is wondering if we’ve got their back. The Kurds are wondering if we’ve got their back. We’ve drawn red lines in the sand and then chickened out. All of this and more has seriously undermined our diplomatic power, one of the four elements of national power. The other three being military, economic and information. General Flynn made it clear how high the stakes are in this election, telling Breitbart’s Matthew Boyle, “It’s more than the most important presidential election in our lifetimes. It’s one of the most important in the history of our country. You can rattle off guys like George Washington, Abraham Lincoln, both Teddy and Franklin Roosevelt. Ronald Reagan. This raises to that level, because our country is either going to become a socialist country or we’re going to continue on a path to prosperity with Donald Trump. ” Dustin Stockton is a political reporter for Breitbart News, a community liaison for Gun Owners of America, and a political strategist. Follow him on Twitter @DustinStockton or Facebook.  