Nearly two years after a sweeping corruption case first felled top leaders of FIFA, the   governing body for international soccer announced on Friday that it had cataloged its officials’ wrongdoing and delivered the results of a   internal investigation to government authorities. The investigation, undertaken by two prominent law firms in 2015, drew on millions of documents and interviews with current and former employees. Among those interviewed was Sepp Blatter, FIFA’s longtime president who stepped down amid scandal, his lawyer confirmed. In recent days, FIFA said, the organization turned over the last in a series of inquiry reports  —   totaling 1, 300 pages, with an additional 20, 000 pages of supplementary evidence  —   to Switzerland’s office of the attorney general. Swiss prosecutors, who have named Mr. Blatter and his former top deputy, Jérôme Valcke, as subjects of a criminal investigation, are expected to share the information with the United States Justice Department, which led international scrutiny of FIFA by charging dozens of soccer officials, businessmen and companies with racketeering, money laundering, wire fraud and bribery in 2015. In its announcement, FIFA’s president, Gianni Infantino, seemed eager to turn the page on one of the darkest chapters in its history. “FIFA committed to conducting a thorough and comprehensive investigation of the facts so we could hold wrongdoers within football accountable and cooperate with the authorities,” Mr. Infantino said. “FIFA will now return its focus to the game. ” The American and Swiss investigations are, however, continuing  —   deconstructing schemes spanning decades to which more than a dozen have confessed. So, too, is an investigation in France, where Mr. Valcke lives. That inquiry is being conducted by France’s national financial prosecutor’s office, which, like the American investigators’ has relied on cooperation from Switzerland’s attorney general. Swiss privacy laws dictate that FIFA’s information must be funneled through Swiss authorities. FIFA, based in Zurich, is forbidden to deliver documents directly to other governments, which frustrated FIFA’s lawyers during early stages of the United States’ case, as they sought to telegraph their cooperation and to solidify FIFA’s place as a victim in the eyes of the authorities. “The office of the attorney general of Switzerland appreciates the preliminary exchange of information and FIFA’s close and consistent cooperation,” Ladina Gapp, a spokeswoman for that office, wrote in an email on Friday. “Since the criminal proceedings are ongoing, FIFA is restricted from releasing or commenting on the findings from its investigation. ” The narrative reports and corresponding evidence newly turned over by FIFA might not be revelatory for government authorities, who have obtained voluminous information through their own interviews, raids and specific document requests, to which FIFA has responded on a rolling basis over the last two years. But the reports, produced by the American law firm Quinn Emanuel and the Swiss law firm Niederer Kraft  Frey, catalog FIFA’s insight into its leadership’s possible crimes and signal a symbolic moment as the organization seeks to emerge from the scandal. The United States has charged more than 40 defendants in its case. Of those, 19 people have so far publicly pleaded guilty, along with multiple companies. As recently as December 2016, a new guilty plea was unsealed. Five soccer officials are actively fighting charges in the United States and set to stand trial in the fall, while numerous others remain abroad and have not answered to the charges against them. The investigations have been dizzying  —   and expensive  —   for FIFA, which has asked the United States government for tens of millions of dollars, a portion of the money that the convicted defendants have pledged to pay the Justice Department in restitution. The scandal has unseated dozens of international and national soccer officials, predominantly from South and Central America, some with deep roots in the sport and their names emblazoned on administration buildings. At least one implicated leader remains in power: Marco Polo Del Nero, the president of Brazil’s soccer association, who was indicted by the United States in 2015. Mr. Infantino, who succeeded Mr. Blatter as FIFA’s president last year, has broadly condemned the disfiguring corruption and advocated change, but he has not called for Mr. Del Nero’s resignation and met with him in Rio de Janeiro last summer as part of a routine visit.