September 2016 marked the first time Breitbart News Network received more than 200, 000, 000 pageviews in a single month. Breitbart. com also surpassed 10, 000, 000 pageviews in a single day for the first time this past Sunday, September 9th. Breitbart. com increased its   pageview record on Monday, September 10th with over 11. 5 million. [September saw a significant increase in pageviews from the website’s previous record of 192 million in July, which were bolstered by elevated reader engagement during the DNC and RNC conventions. Since then, Breitbart News Network has launched an official Instagram page, the Official Breitbart Store, and senior editor Milo Yiannopoulos has continued his “Dangerous Faggot” tour around the United States of America to unprecedented crowds.  “There is a huge appetite for an alternative news source that is   honest, and direct,” said Breitbart News CEO and President Larry Solov. “These latest traffic metrics reflect that hunger and the incredible engagement of our growing, global audience. ” “Despite overwhelming hostility from the Democrats and most of the media, Breitbart News continues to set records in this remarkable news year,” added Breitbart News    Alexander Marlow. “These numbers send a clear message: the public want a free press and that Breitbart News is a vital part of it. Our team of happy warriors have never worked harder and their efforts are reflected in our content and results. Thank you to this incredible audience. ” Breitbart’s daily radio show, Breitbart News Daily, which broadcasts weekdays on SiriusXM Patriot Channel 125 from 6AM to 9AM Eastern in addition to live Saturday and Sunday programs, continues to bring in top political guests to discuss the day’s most pressing headlines with callers throughout the USA and Canada. Breitbart’s successful podcasts, The Milo Yiannopoulos Show and Did She Say That with Sonnie Johnson, have both nearly hit thirty episodes each. An announcement regarding expanded audio content from Breitbart News is forthcoming. In August, Breitbart News received over 14 million total Facebook engagements for the month, making it the 14th most engaged site on Facebook, beating The Guardian, CBS News, Yahoo, USA Today, and The Independent, while achieving over 500, 000 more engagements than the previous month. Breitbart’s official Twitter account currently holds over 416, 000 followers, despite being unverified, while its London account has over 36, 000, video account nearly 11, 000, and Tech and Texas accounts have nearly 10, 000 each.