Almost two dozen students at San Diego State University participated in a “healing circle” in an effort to process confusion and anger over the results of the recent presidential election. [According to the event’s organizers, the   “healing circle” was conducted in an effort to develop strategies to stand up to the injustice that some students now fear they will face in Donald Trump’s America.  A facilitator who led the discussion began the “healing circle” by asking the participants to move past any denial they may be harboring and accept the results of the election as reality.  “I think at least for me that initial shock has worn off a tiny bit,” she began. “You know when you grieve you have that denial, ‘How could this happen, I can’t believe this,’ you know, some of us said in that anger, or sadness, mourning, whatever, that overwhelming feeling that that we’re having. Many of us want to do is, okay, now what? We couldn’t believe it happened, but it happened. I think it’s safe to say he’s not going anywhere. ” A student who participated in the “healing circle” claimed that facilitators asked each students to explain how the results of the election have affected them. “Then everyone took turns explaining how hard it was for them because of Trump,” the student said. “They said white people cannot understand, and they’re scared   …     and need more support. ” Facilitators also encouraged students to seek further help from the university’s counseling center if they continued having trouble coping with the results of the election. A poster advertising the event claimed that Trump’s victory has caused members of minority groups to feel further marginalized. “In light of the recent election, many people of color, people in the LGBTQAI community, immigrants, women, people of different faiths, and many more are confused, angry and scared,” said a poster advertising the event. “One of the great threats of this election is isolation. Please come out and be in community to process what happened, and develop next steps for how we can stand together against injustice. ” Tom Ciccotta is a libertarian who writes about Free Speech and Intellectual Diversity for Breitbart. You can follow him on Twitter @tciccotta or email him at tciccotta@breitbart. com