It was Ghostbusters actress Leslie Jones’s reporting of Breitbart Tech editor Milo Yiannopoulos to Twitter that appears to have finally given them the cover to do something they’ve long yearned for: permanently ban Milo from Twitter. [In an email sent from Twitter to Milo, the site said it had “permanently suspended” his account due to “repeated violation of Twitter rules, specifically our rules prohibiting participating in or inciting targeted abuse of individuals. ”  Jones, meanwhile, has repeatedly made derogatory comments about white people: Lord have mercy  …    white people shit,  —   Leslie Jones (@Lesdoggg) February 9, 2015,  She also retweeted a comparison of Milo as the “Uncle Tom of Gay people,” before claiming that her account was hacked and that she was not responsible for the retweet. wait a minute is solomon sitting by a white women  …    #imgonnafuckhimup,  —   Leslie Jones (@Lesdoggg) March 3, 2014,  ok you white girls are starting to look alike like a mutherfucka. I swear i went to high school with them two girls! #ainteventryingtolookdiff,  —   Leslie Jones (@Lesdoggg) August 26, 2014,  get the fuck outta here a white boy is best dj wtf?  —   Leslie Jones (@Lesdoggg) February 13, 2012,  Not being rape by white man. What part of this joke that wasn’t true? I would have been used for breeding straight up. That’s my reality.  —   Leslie Jones (@Lesdoggg) May 4, 2014,  White folks! pic. twitter.   —   Leslie Jones (@Lesdoggg) June 20, 2016,  Why is the goofy white boy coming thru!! The announcers won’t even call him lebron. The jamesing like a Muthafucka! Wake up James!!  —   Leslie Jones (@Lesdoggg) June 3, 2016,  mickey mouse gangster cousin wtf? white people smh,  —   Leslie Jones (@Lesdoggg) February 13, 2012,  @MoGray80 @SherriEShepherd @LoniLove bitch are you joking?! how sad for you. no shade?! so tired of black women like you so tired.  —   Leslie Jones (@Lesdoggg) July 18, 2016,  Ok  …    black republicans? (blank stare) isn’t that an oxymoron emphasis on ”moron” #needemojitoexpressblankstare #thoughtitwasamyth #unicorn,  —   Leslie Jones (@Lesdoggg) August 27, 2014,  Yo them dudes with the curls on the side of they head does that make them more Jewish? For real I need to know. #LAXBLUES,  —   Leslie Jones (@Lesdoggg) February 10, 2015,  Others tweets include her her telling a black woman she was “sick” of black people who didn’t favour her casting in the Ghostbusters reboot, after the woman suggested a different actress would have been better suited to the role, poking fun at Jewish people, and claiming black Republican’s are an “oxymoron. ” Jones also violated Twitter’s policy against targeted harassment, directly ordering her followers to mob another user. This is the same policy that Twitter says Milo violated, despite the fact that the Breitbart editor never told his followers to attack Jones. @whitebecky1776 bitch I want to tell you about your self but I’m gonna let everybody else do it I’m gonna retweet your hate!! Get her!!  —   Leslie Jones (@Lesdoggg) July 19, 2016,  Jones confirmed she was “leaving” Twitter on Monday evening but has not deleted her account. @Lesdoggg Hi Leslie, following, please DM me when you have a moment,  —   Jack (@jack) July 19, 2016,  Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey then tweeted at Jones asking her to send him a private message. Milo has since been removed. You can follow Ben Kew on Facebook, on Twitter at @ben_kew, or email him at ben@yiannopoulos. net