Government watchdog group Judicial Watch announced today that it has filed a Freedom of Information (FOIA) lawsuit in the U. S. District Court for the District of Columbia to obtain Federal Bureau of Investigation records relating to its “investigation of former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s use of a   email server during her tenure. ”[The lawsuit includes a demand for FBI “302” documents, which are reports of FBI investigation interviews as well as information about the private June meeting between former President Bill Clinton and Attorney General Loretta Lynch.  Judicial Watch President Tom Fitton said in a statement: “FBI Director James Comey’s promise to the American people of transparency about the FBI’s investigation of Clinton was an empty promise  —   otherwise we wouldn’t be in federal court seeking this information. An air of corruption surrounds the   Department investigation of Hillary Clinton and so, through this lawsuit, Judicial Watch is investigating the investigators. ” Judicial Watch explained what the lawsuit Judicial Watch v. U. S. Department of Justice (No. 1:  ) is seeking: The Judicial Watch FOIA lawsuit was filed after the Justice Department failed to comply with a July 7, 2016, FOIA request seeking the following: • All   forms prepared pursuant to the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s investigation of former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s use of a private   server during her tenure. • All records of communications between any agent, employee, or representative of the Federal Bureau of Investigation regarding, concerning, or related to the aforementioned investigation. This request includes, but is not limited to, any related communications with any official, employee, or representative of the Department of Justice, the Executive Office of the President, the Democratic National Committee,   the presidential campaign of Hillary Clinton. • All records related to the meeting between Attorney General Lynch and former President Bill Clinton on June 27, 2016. On Friday afternoon, it was announced that the FBI is   the investigation into the Clinton email scandal after “recent developments. ” Follow Breitbart News investigative reporter and Citizen Journalism School founder Lee Stranahan on Twitter at @Stranahan.