Mexican clergy leaders are calling for a dialogue with drug cartels in an attempt to bring peace to their   country. Meanwhile, politicos call for media silence. [Claiming that the Mexican governments war on drugs has brought nothing but murder, kidnappings and extortions, Mexico’s Episcopal Conference (CEM) has publicly called for the dialogue with drug cartesl. The moves comes almost at the same time that a Mexican governor called for news outlets to stop focusing on the out of control violence in the region which has scared away tourism.   According to Mexico’s Proceso Magazine, the move for dialogue is spearheaded by Bishop Salvador Rangel Mendoza who heads the church in Chilpancingo, a town in the Mexican state of Guerrero. Chilpancingo has seen a dramatic spike in cartel violence.  “The church has always promoted dialogue, because without dialogue there can not be peace,” Rangel Mendoza is quoted by Proceso. “That is why it is needed to dialogue with the people who are dedicated to drug trafficking, but without making any concessions. Dialoguing is not making deals!   …     with them we can not make deals but we can come to some agreements. ”  Guerrero is the same state where Governor Hector Astudillo called for news outlets to stop reporting on the out of control cartel violence since it was scaring off tourism. Instead, the politician asked that news outlets make the region “look good. ” Guerrero is state where in September 2014, 43 education students from Ayotzinapa were kidnapped by police officers and then turned over to cartel members who are believed to have killed them and incinerated their remains.  Currently Guerrero continues to be a war zone were the almost daily cartel executions have scared tourists away form the resort city of Acapulco. Some of the executions have been reportedly carried out by gunmen riding   in the resort area.  The call by the church for a dialogue with drug cartels comes at a time when Mexico continues to see unprecedented levels of violence throughout the country.  A   investigation by Breitbart Texas revealed that from 2011 to 2013 Los Zetas drug cartel was responsible for the mass extermination of innocents in the border state of Coahuila using clandestine crematoriums. The border state of Tamaulipas has also become a war zone where cartel gun battles and gory executions continue to bring terror to the community despite the government’s best effort to downplay the violence. Ildefonso Ortiz is an award winning journalist with Breitbart Texas you can follow him on Twitter and on Facebook.