For Braulio Jatar, it was the biggest scoop in years: Venezuela’s president was being chased by a crowd screaming of hunger, banging on pots and pans. The photos and video of President Nicolás Maduro soon appeared on Mr. Jatar’s news site, Reporte Confidencial, and spread throughout the nation. The mob cornering Mr. Maduro was a shock in Venezuela  —   anger in food lines and even riots were a familiar sight, but no one had ever ambushed the president that way. Before he went to bed, Mr. Jatar fired off a series of Twitter messages, some alluding to witness testimony he would soon broadcast on his 9 a. m. radio show. But he never got the chance. He now sits locked in a jail cell, a political prisoner, rights activists say. Venezuela this week took its biggest plunge yet toward the   rule of Mr. Maduro as his loyalists on the Supreme Court gutted the country’s   legislature, seizing the powers of the only body seen as a counter to the president’s growing authority. But the move was just part of a slide from democracy that has been gaining steady momentum in the country over the past year  —   seen starkly in prison cells where the ranks of political prisoners are growing. Those cells are filled with   opponents of Mr. Maduro, like a former mayor of a wealthy section of Caracas who was sentenced to more than 13 years on charges of inciting violence academics who have spoken out and journalists like Mr. Jatar, whose family says he was simply doing his job when he was detained in September. At least 114 political prisoners are behind bars in Venezuela, according to Penal Forum, a human rights organization that tracks political arrests in the country, a number that rose from 89 a year ago. The group says that since Mr. Maduro took power in 2013, the government has arrested 6, 893 people and jailed 433 for political reasons. “The level of repression has risen to a brutal level,” said Alfredo Romero, who heads the group. “The rise has come from the unpopularity of Maduro. ” The situation has become urgent for Venezuela’s neighbors, 14 of whom wrote a rare joint statement last week calling on Venezuela to release the prisoners as a step toward restoring democratic norms. This week diplomats from the region met at the Organization of American States, a regional diplomacy group, to discuss steps to possibly expel the country from the group because of its political prisoners, among other accusations of violations of the bloc’s democratic charter. President Trump has also weighed in. In February, he posted on Twitter a photograph of himself and other officials in the Oval Office with Lilian Tintori, an opposition activist whose husband, Leopoldo López, was in jail. Mr. Trump wrote that Mr. López, a former mayor of Caracas, should be released immediately. The taking of political prisoners is not new in Venezuela it is the numbers that have grown under Mr. Maduro, human rights groups say. His predecessor, Hugo Chávez, jailed opponents, including a judge who had opposed him. But analysts say Mr. Chávez more often avoided dissent by channeling the country’s oil revenues, at times more than $100 a barrel, into social programs that bolstered his popularity. Mr. Maduro, however, has been faced with falling oil prices and years of economic mismanagement, which have led to shortages of food and basic medicines. Since October, Venezuela’s currency, the bolívar, has been in free fall, with the   dollar rising against it by 350 percent at its height, putting food even further out of reach and sinking the president’s popularity. These conditions led to the protests against Mr. Maduro on Margarita Island, where Mr. Jatar, the journalist, was arrested. His publication, Reporte Confidencial, had a long history of chronicling the ups and downs of the island  —   which is off Venezuela’s eastern coast  —   beginning as a weekly leaflet in 2006. It later expanded online, where it continued to operate on a shoestring budget and with a small staff. It became known for its investigations, including of improper land use by a judge and one about a state governor linked to a corruption scheme related to subsidized food. “If no one else would publish it, Reporte Confidencial would put it out,” said Yusnelly Villalobos, Mr. Jatar’s assistant. Mr. Jatar’s wife, Silvia Martínez, said he was once threatened by the authorities when he sent reporters to cover antigovernment protests in 2014. The police raided their home and office, leaving with computer equipment. But that was no preparation for what would happen after the protesters’ harassment of Mr. Maduro that night in September. The protest, which was soon known as news spread online by its hashtag, “#cacerolazo,” or the “great pot banging,” was a deep embarrassment for Mr. Maduro. That week the opposition had amassed an estimated one million people in Caracas to protest food shortages and demand his ouster. The president had flown to Margarita Island for what was expected to be a positive reception in an area where he and Mr. Chávez had both won in elections. After inaugurating a public housing complex, Mr. Maduro stopped his motorcade in the town of Villa Rosa, to walk among a crowd of what he thought were  . Instead they chased him through the streets. The next morning Mr. Jatar set off to a radio show, which he also ran, where he planned to continue his coverage of the night’s protest. “I turned on the dial to listen to him,” Ms. Martínez said. But he never showed up at the station he had been arrested by Venezuelan intelligence agents. In the next days, 30 more people were arrested in    roundups, according to Penal Forum. They were interrogated before being let go, the group said. But Mr. Jatar was not released. He sits in a jail cell in the state of Nueva Esparta on   charges involving $25, 000, which the authorities say they found in his car. Ms. Martínez says that the money was planted, and that Mr. Jatar would have never left such a large amount of money where it might have easily been stolen. “We have no idea who ordered his detention,” Ms. Martinez said. José Miguel Vivanco, the director of Human Rights Watch, which has also investigated the case, said his group concluded that the charges were fabricated in an effort to suppress journalists. “Calling for his release is not just about letting another political prisoner out of jail,” he said. “It’s about protecting free speech. ” The government ombudsman did not respond to a request for comment on Mr. Jatar or other prisoners. Venezuela’s military and prosecutor’s office also did not respond to a written request for comment. Since Mr. Jatar’s arrest, the government has intensified its focus on arresting those it deems subversive. In early January, Mr. Maduro put Tareck El Aissami, the newly appointed vice president, in charge of what he called the “anticoup squad,” a group aimed at punishing those plotting treason or other crimes against the state. On Jan. 12, Irwing Roca, a political activist, was leaving a meeting with Roniel Farias, a city councilman in Ciudad Bolívar, in the country’s eastern interior. Mr. Roca said that a black car was waiting outside for them, and that intelligence agents ordered them inside after taking their telephones. “At no moment did they say why they had taken us,” Mr. Roca said. Mr. Roca said he was held by the agents for three days without food or water. Mr. Farias was released on March 14, with no explanation. The day before Mr. Roca and Mr. Farias were taken, Gilber Caro, a deputy legislator in the National Assembly for Voluntad Popular, an opposition party, was making his way down a highway outside of Caracas when his car was stopped by Venezuelan intelligence agents, his family said. Yeidi Caro, his sister, first learned of the news when a friend called to mistakenly say he was kidnapped. Mr. Caro initially thought he had been taken by criminals demanding a ransom. Ms. Caro saw the news of his arrest being broadcast. “I turned on the television and I saw that the government had him,” she said. The Venezuelan authorities said that they had found the legislator hiding an assault rifle and money to be used for attacks against the government. Officials broadcast a taped phone call between Mr. Caro and Ms. Tintori  —   the wife of the political prisoner photographed with Mr. Trump in February  —   in which they said the two had planned chaotic protests to undermine the government. “He is a person with violent characteristics,” Mr. El Aissami, the vice president, said of Mr. Caro.