Democrat Hillary Clinton pulled a new excuse out of her hat when she was interrogated by the FBI. Clinton claimed that Bush administration Secretary of State Colin Powell also kept a private email server and advised her to do the same. [But Powell is saying that he only used his private account for “unclassified” information, and even the liberal Washington Post is not buying Clinton’s excuse.  Amy Chozick of The New York Times reported Friday: Pressed by the F. B. I. about her email practices at the State Department, Hillary Clinton told investigators that former Secretary of State Colin L. Powell had advised her to use a personal email account   …     Separately, in a 2009 email exchange that also emerged during the F. B. I. questioning, Mrs. Clinton, who had already decided to use private email, asked Mr. Powell about his email practices when he was the nation’s top diplomat under George W. Bush, according to a person with direct knowledge of Mr. Powell’s appearance in the documents, who would not speak for attribution. Colin Powell shot back with a statement that casts doubt on Clinton’s explanation: Statement from Colin Powell’s office to NBC News —  after NYT @amychozick rpt on Clinton emails https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Bradd Jaffy (@BraddJaffy) August 19, 2016,  The Washington Post‘s political writer Chris Cillizza does not care for Clinton’s explanation. Cillizza writes: The attempt to  —   again  —   equate what Powell did with what Clinton did is yet more evidence that either the candidate, her senior advisers or both simply don’t get it. No, Clinton wasn’t indicted by the Justice Department for her email setup. But she was badly reprimanded by FBI Director James Comey for her email practices it was an unequivocal condemnation of her conduct in relation to her approach to electronic communications while serving as the country’s top diplomat. For whatever reason  —   and despite the fact that Clinton has said on several occasions that she knows she made a mistake  —   she seems incapable of accepting that responsibility and moving on. No secretary of state  —   up to and including Colin Powell  —   handled their email setup like Clinton. That’s a fact.  