Timothy Caughman, an    thread in Manhattan’s tapestry one week ago as he collected bottles and cans for the nickel refund, was honored Saturday by the mayor of New York City and dozens of old friends, whose hair had grayed since they saw Mr. Caughman last. On a raw morning that felt more like winter than spring, they gathered in the little red brick Mount Zion Baptist Church in South Jamaica, Queens, where Mr. Caughman’s father had once been a pastor. They sang the praise of Mr. Caughman  —   66 when he was killed by an attacker armed with a sword on the night of March 20 while scavenging in Midtown  —   as an individual of quiet dignity and broad interests. James Harris Jackson, 28, a white man from Baltimore, has been arrested in his killing and charged with murder as terrorism. The police and prosecutors said he told investigators that he came to New York intending to kill black men. Mr. Caughman was his only victim. On Saturday, Mayor Bill de Blasio spoke for 17 minutes at Mount Zion, towering over the pulpit and over Mr. Caughman’s garlanded coffin. His rhetorical sparks resonated among appreciative mourners. The mayor’s most respectful gesture may have been his simple presence. As if to make a point by his own example that Mr. Caughman had been transformed by events into an Everyman of New York City, Mr. de Blasio remained for the entire funeral, which lasted almost two hours. He sat next to the pastor, the Rev. Christopher N. Howard. He bowed his head when that was called for. He stood and clapped his hands as the chorus sang “We’ll Understand It Better By and By,” when it would have been impossible to do anything else. “He stayed,” Mr. Howard said after the service, standing atop the steps of the church while Mr. Caughman’s extended family  —   Caughmans, Peeks and Johnsons  —   prepared to depart for Flushing Cemetery in Queens for the burial. “When the mayor comes like that, it means the world to us in South Jamaica. ” The mayor’s remarks were spirited enough to earn him the title “Reverend de Blasio” from Letitia A. James, the city’s public advocate, who followed him to the pulpit. As a pastor, Mr. de Blasio was not entirely conciliatory. Running for   and dogged by a sometimes tense relationship with reporters, he obliquely mentioned newspaper articles that had discussed Mr. Caughman’s relatively minor criminal record. “There were news reports about this man that somehow dwelt on something that happened to him that happened to every single one of us in this room,” the mayor said, “which is, somewhere along the way, we made a mistake. So why, if he’s a victim, an innocent victim of a racist attack, does any reporter want to talk about a mistake he made along the way. Why is that pertinent?” As murmurs of assent began building, Mr. de Blasio declared, “What’s pertinent is that he was the victim of a racist attack. ” At that, there was applause. “Let me be straightforward,” Mr. de Blasio continued. “What if it had been a black man who traveled to another city for the sole purpose  —   ” when a standing ovation made it impossible to hear the rest of the sentence. “Would that have been   news? Day after day?” “Still,” came the quiet answer from Kathy   who knew Mr. Caughman when they were growing up in the South Jamaica Houses, a housing project just a few blocks down 107th Avenue from Mount Zion. Again, the mayor asked: “What if  —   instead of an older man of modest means  —   it had been a banker or a lawyer or a celebrity, an actor or an actress? Don’t you think that would then still be dominating our attention?” And again Ms.   answered, not quite under her breath: “Every single day. Every channel. ” To the people of the South Jamaica Houses  —   the “40 Projects,” as they are called because of the presence nearby of Public School 40  —   Mr. Caughman was Hard Rock not one to start a fight, but not one to a leave a fight unfinished, either. For 20 years, he lived in the Barbour Hotel on West 36th Street in Manhattan, which houses formerly homeless people transitioning to permanent housing. Because of that, Mr. Caughman was initially assumed to have been homeless. But he was actually a permanent resident. “He would never have been homeless,” said Mr. Caughman’s    Charles W. Johnson. “Not with the family he had on both sides. ” The nickels he got from redeeming recyclable cans and bottles were used, in part, to help finance trips to Washington, where he enjoyed attending congressional hearings, said a cousin, Richard Peek. The photograph of Mr. Caughman that has been used to illustrate many news accounts was a selfie he took last year on Election Day. “Standing on line waiting to vote I love america,” he posted on Twitter. Three days later, Mr. Caughman posted, “‘Build the wall’ chants and swastikas in schools  —   hate crimes reports surge in US after Trump win. ” No matter the subject, Mr. Caughman was always an engaging conversationalist, said Portia Clark, who had known him since they were teenagers. She remembered being a fast walker as a girl and always cursing her fate just a bit when she ran into young Tim Hard Rock. “I knew I had to slow down because I knew it was going to be a conversation,” Ms. Clark said. “But thank God I did because every conversation was enlightening and educational. ” Her husband, Carl Nimmons, stood in the aisle of Mount Zion and glanced over at the body of Mr. Caughman, in a brilliant robe of green polished cotton, a leather crown and white gloves to cover the scars on his hands from trying to fend off the man who killed him. Mr. Nimmons described a   a few months ago when the men resolved to let less time go by between reunions. “We’ve got to get together more often,” he recalled them saying to one another. “And not just at funerals. ” Moments later, the coffin lid was closed and the funeral began.