What appears to be a bomb aimed at shuttles full of military personnel in Ankara, Turkey, has killed 18 people, with authorities noting the death toll may rise as information filters in. [“We are looking into details of the explosion,” declared Turkish Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoğlu.  Davutoğlu has postponed a planned visit to Brussels. #breaking Car bomb kills many people in #Ankara Turkish media report pic. twitter.   —   euronews (@euronews) February 17, 2016,  Ankara explosion: 5 killed and 10 injured after blast in central district | via @Telegraph https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Sven Herold (@svenherold) February 17, 2016,  PHOTO: CHP MP in Ankara tweets photo of emergency vehicles at the scene of explosion.  —   @AylinNazliaka pic. twitter.   —   Conflict News (@Conflicts) February 17, 2016,  “Terror has attacked treacherously in Ankara. We curse this attack,” wrote AKP spokesman Ömer Çelik. Reports indicate the explosion took place “just a hundred metres away from the parliament and the military headquarters. ” It also occurred during a “  security meeting” at President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan’s Presidential Palace. The country’s “TV watchdog RTÜK also imposed a broadcast ban on the attack. ” #Turkey #Update: At least 5 killed, 10 injured after car bomb blast hits military vehicles in #Ankara. pic. twitter.   —   José Miguel Sardo (@jmsardo) February 17, 2016,  Bombing of a military vehicle in #Ankara. There are 5 dead and 10 injured say the authorities. #Turkey pic. twitter.   —   Onlinemagazin (@OnlineMagazin) February 17, 2016,  Video from scene of blast targeted at military vehicles in Ankara, Turkey. At least 5 dead, many injured pic. twitter.   —   Lisa Daftari (@LisaDaftari) February 17, 2016,  “There are reports of casualties,” explained Zeina Khodr of Al Jazeera. “This is really in the heart of the Turkish capital  —   it is clearly a message to the Turkish government. This is the fourth major explosion in Turkey in the past few months. ” No group has claimed responsibility for the attack. More photos from the #Ankara blast https:  . :  . :  .  pic. twitter.   —   Eliot Higgins (@EliotHiggins) February 17, 2016,  Explosion in #Ankara: at least 5 killed https:  .  pic. twitter.   —     (@agos_en) February 17, 2016,  video: panic in Ankara after explosion near military barrack in Kizilay area pic. twitter.  Turkey, 5 confirmed dea d,  —   Khalid Khan (@khalidkhan787) February 17, 2016,  Last October, two bombings in Ankara killed 97 people and wounded hundreds more in the deadliest attack in   Turkish history. Police arrested two suspected members of the Kurdistan Workers’ Party (PKK) four days later who allegedly tweeted about the incident before it occurred. The Marxist People’s Liberation   ( ) claimed responsibility for an attack in Istanbul in January. The attack killed the female bomber and a policeman. They also attempted a bombing in Istanbul on January 1. Turkish Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoğlu claimed a member of the Islamic State ( ) bombed Istanbul on January 10, and attack that killed 10 people, mostly German citizens, and injured 15.