Mark Kern, the veteran game developer who was suspended from Twitter after suggesting that radical mosques be subject to the same NSA surveillance as other Americans, has had his account reinstated following Breitbart Tech’s report yesterday. [I was suspended by Twitter today, and it took @BreitbartNews, @DRUDGE_REPORT and @Notch to get me unsuspended  …      —   Mark Kern (@Grummz) June 14, 2016,   Kern, a   games developer who worked on the original iteration of Blizzard entertainment’s acclaimed World Of Warcraft series, had suggested that in the wake of the Orlando shootings, “radical mosques” oughtn’t be exempt from NSA surveillance. This was the last tweet he posted before his suspension: I don’t see why mosques with radical leanings should be excluded from surveillance when the rest of us get our emails collected by the NSA.  —   Mark Kern (@Grummz) June 13, 2016,  After reinstating his account, Twitter claimed that he had been suspended for the header image on his profile, which allegedly contained “nude or pornographic content. ” Kern immediately questioned their justification, given that the header image contained no nude imagery and had been atop his profile for several months. Kern called the justification a “lame excuse” and argued that Twitter had to backpedal given the coverage their actions received from conservative media. I am a fairly high profile account with lots of SJW enemies reporting me  daily. After a year they suddenly see my header?  —   Mark Kern (@Grummz) June 13, 2016,  Check out Twitter’s lame excuse to suspend me and what the ACTUAL image was. Bias exposed by @LibertarianBlue pic. twitter.   —   Mark Kern (@Grummz) June 13, 2016,  Yep, given how fast my   came after the Brietbart article and Drudge report pickup  …    well, BACKPEDAL! https:  .   —   Mark Kern (@Grummz) June 13, 2016,  Here’s the header image that Twitter claimed was so unacceptable that Kern had to be suspended. Readers can judge for themselves whether it was the real reason.  You can follow Allum Bokhari on Twitter, add him on Facebook. Email tips and suggestions to abokhari@breitbart. com.