British pop queen Adele paused a concert in Denmark this week to sing the praises of Beyoncé and her latest album, the Black Lives   Lemonade, telling attendees at the concert that Beyoncé is “Jesus f*cking Christ. ”[Adele was performing at the Forum in Copenhagen, Denmark on Tuesday when she stopped   to give a   to Queen Bey.  Adele calls Beyonce ’Jesus Christ’ during a live show ὄ pic. twitter.   —   WORLDSTARHIPHOP (@WORLDSTAR) May 4, 2016,  “Are there any Beyoncé fans here tonight? How is it even possible that she only ever gets better?” the 25 singer gushed. “She is Jesus f*cking Christ. Beyoncé is the sickest artist around in the whole entire world. It’s unbelievable. I’ve been listening to her for 17 years, and she’s still making music that blows my mind. ” Beyoncé’s sixth studio album, Lemonade, premiered late last month with a splashy series of videos on premium cable channel HBO. As Breitbart’s Jerome Hudson previously reported, the album is   of references to racial politics, black nationalist feminism and the alleged infidelity of her husband, rap star and music mogul  . The album also contained a cryptic reference to  ’s alleged mistress  —   “Becky with the good hair”  —   that set off a frenzied online scavenger hunt and accusations of racism from fellow artist Iggy Azalea. As Entertainment Weekly notes, Beyoncé’s new album set a record for most songs by a female artist to chart on the Billboard Hot 100 simultaneously all 12 of the album’s songs hit the chart at the same time earlier this week. Before her concert, Adele posted a photo to Instagram showing her hugging a poster of Beyoncé, and wrote that she was “speechless,” presumably over the singer’s latest album.  I’m not late on this I’ve just been speechless. Beyonce is the most inspiring person I’ve ever had the pleasure of worshipping. Her talent, beauty, grace and work ethic are all in a league of their own. I appreciate you so much! Thank god for Beyoncé X, A photo posted by @adele on May 3, 2016 at 10:17am PDT,  “Beyoncé is the most inspiring person I’ve ever had the pleasure of worshipping,” she wrote. “Her talent, beauty, grace and work ethic are all in a league of their own. I appreciate you so much! Thank god for Beyoncé X. ” Adele’s expression of love for Beyoncé wasn’t the only interruption at her Denmark concert Tuesday night the singer also invited a   couple onstage to help them get engaged, and even offered to be a surrogate for them. Adele’s 25 tour continues Saturday night at the   Arena in Berlin, Germany.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum,            