MONTERREY, Nuevo Leon  —   Mexican authorities continue to look into the execution of a model who was gunned down in front of her family. The model’s boyfriend had been previously killed and is believed to have been tied to organized crime. [The murder took place during the early hours of Friday morning when a group of gunmen burst into a house in the La Hacienda neighborhood in the suburb of Apodaca. Gunmen held various relatives at bay and shot    Karla Karina Garza Garcia in the head. The shooting matches the description of the execution style murder typically associated with organized crime.   Garza Garcia had been a member of Diamond Girls, an agency that represents models for dances, social events and TV shows.  A source close to the ongoing investigation revealed to Breitbart Texas that the gunmen stormed the house shouting, “Who is Karina?” The statement by the official confirmed that the murder was not random in nature but was in fact a targeted hit. The gunmen had been wearing dark clothing and caps in an effort to cover their faces. The men had been in an SUV and had parked outside of the model’s home. The woman begged for her life however, the gunmen dragged her into the kitchen where they shot her. The slain model left behind two girls under five years old.  Garza Garcia’s Facebook profile shows various photographs of her at her job in various TV shows as well as photographs of her with her deceased boyfriend Hilario Carvajal Lucas. The woman’s late love interest was recently murdered in the Mexican city of Guerrero Tamaulipas. The border region of Guerrero has seen a steady amount of violence between the Los Zetas and the Gulf Cartels over drug trafficking routes.  Editor’s Note: Breitbart Texas traveled to the Mexican States of Tamaulipas and Coahuila to recruit citizen journalists willing to risk their lives and expose the cartels silencing their communities.  The writers would face certain death at the hands of the various cartels that operate in those areas including the Gulf Cartel and Los Zetas if a pseudonym were not used. Breitbart Texas’ Cartel Chronicles are published in both English and in their original Spanish. This article was written by “Tony Aranda” from Monterrey, Nuevo Leon.