Over the next few days and weeks you will hear lots and lots of stories about how 2015 was the “Hottest Year Evah”. [Every time you do so, reach for your Browning. Whoever makes this claim will be an idiot, a liar, a charlatan  —   or, in the case of many establishment climate scientists, most likely all three.  I’ll explain why in a moment. But first, meet the morons: Peter Hannam, Environment Editor of the Sydney Morning Herald, At some point, you would think most climate change deniers would throw in the towel. Fifteen of the 16 hottest years on record have happened this century and the other year wasn’t much earlier, in 1998. And 2015 was a breakaway year. Joe Rottweiler, George Soros’s pet Romm, We just lived in the hottest year on record, Some guy in the National Journal, Glob al tem per at ures in 2015 were the warmest since re   ing began —  and it wasn’t even close. This other guy in the New York Times, From the publicly available data, Ewert made an unbelievable discovery: Between the years 2010 and 2012 the data measured since 1881 were altered so that they showed a significant warming, especially after 1950. [  …    ] A comparison of the data from 2010 with the data of 2012 shows that   had altered its own datasets so that especially after WWII a clear warming appears  —   although it never existed. 3. NOAA is just as bad, Whether this represents mere incompetence or calculated fraud by NOAA is for future courts to decide. What we do know is that the problem dates back at least to the 1990s when, for some unexplained reason, NOAA decided to halve the number of weather stations used for its official records. Even more mysteriously, the ones it chose to keep tended to show more global warming while the ones it rejected tended to show much less. 4. According to the satellites it was only the third warmest year (since 1979)  As you can see 1998 was hotter so was 2010. And that’s just in the years since satellite records began in 1979. The planet has been hotter than this many times before, most recently during the Medieval Warming Period. 5. The claim is meaningless anyway, Here’s how Dr. Richard Lindzen, an emeritus Alfred P. Sloan Professor of Meteorology at the Department of Earth, Atmospheric and Planetary Sciences at MIT, puts it: “I urge you when looking at a graph, check the scales! The uncertainty here is tenths of a degree. ” “When someone points to this and says this is the warmest temperature on record. What are they talking about? It’s just nonsense. This is a very tiny change period. And they are arguing over hundredths of a degree when it is uncertain in tenths of a degree. ” “And the proof that the uncertainty is tenths of a degree are the adjustments that are being made. If you can adjust temperatures to   of a degree, it means it wasn’t certain to   of a degree. ”  