A Canadian oil sands group has apologized for an   ad after being subjected to the SJW outrage machine. [The    yet   advert depicted two attractive women kissing one another. Its slogan urged the public to support the oil industry of Canada, where “lesbians are considered hot” as opposed to Saudi Arabia, where lesbians are executed.   It thus used humour and sex appeal to convey a serious message to the public. Its effectiveness in grabbing attention also can’t be denied  —   the picture has already gone viral on social media.   Despite the challenge to Saudi Arabia and its patriarchal, homophobic values, social justice warriors still found something to complain about.  “That poster was disgusting,” said one user, according to Global News. “Fetishizing queer women and reducing the existence of lesbians to something for men’s pleasure  —   for something for men to find ‘hot’. ” “Queen relationships between women may be beautiful but they don’t exist for men. ” Robbie Picard, founder of Canada Oil Sands Community, the group that posted the ad, was initially resilient in the face of the   brigade. “If this draws attention that we are getting fuel from countries that butcher gays and lesbians  —   I mean, butcher them, hang them, publicly beat them  —    then I’m OK to take a few shots if that means it draws attention to the bigger issue,” said Picard, according to the CBC. “I will go on the record saying all lesbians are hot, and I think that people in Canada really need to understand Canadian oil is the best choice. It’s the best choice when it comes to the environment. It’s the best choice when it comes to equality. ” “It’s obviously targeted towards a heterosexual male demographic,” stated Dallas Barnes, former president of Calgary Pride and current InterPride   . “Sure, some girls do look like that, but it’s demeaning. It sexualizes. ” Here were some of the other comments left on the group’s Facebook page: After receipt of these comments and many more, Picard released an apology. “As a gay Male, I apologize for the poster I posted,” said Picard. “It was not my intent of demeaning women or any people of any sexual orientation. ” “It’s was [sic] rather to highlight injustice done by other countries we are purchasing our oil from. I certainly don’t want to divide our community I believe in equality and human rights. ” Some individuals were still not satisfied.  Canada Oil Sands Community published the following, rather more serious as a replacement, yesterday.  While some commenters admired the group’s bravery standing up for gay rights, others were still unhappy: It seems Canada Oil Sands learned a valuable lesson: you can never please SJWs. Rob Shimshock is a Campus Reform correspondent and Breitbart contributor. Follow him on Twitter (@ShimshockAndAwe) for mischief, sarcasm, and truth.