The supermodel and TV personality Tyra Banks has decided to sell her Battery Park City home, a   duplex facing the Hudson River, complete with dressing room and hair salon, a personal gym and separate staff and guest quarters. Ms. Banks bought her Riverhouse apartment, at 2 River Terrace, in 2009 and used it as a primary residence for about four years. But she has been spending most of her time lately on the West Coast, where she has homes in Los Angeles and Northern California, and so she has been renting out the unit since May 2015, for $50, 000 a month furnished. Tyra Beauty, her new cosmetics company, is also based in Los Angeles, as are various entertainment projects. (Ms. Banks is the new   of “America’s Got Talent” and will be returning to the show she helped create, “America’s Next Top Model. ”) The Lower Manhattan apartment, which overlooks Rockefeller Park, is being offered for both rent (at $50, 000 a month) and for sale, with an asking price of $17. 5 million and monthly carrying costs of $16, 644, according to the listing broker, Adam D. Modlin of the Modlin Group. Ms. Banks, 43, who last year became a parent for the first time with her photographer boyfriend, Erik Asla, said she would prefer to sell the place rather than continue leasing it out, although she admits that she “will miss the feeling of having a home in the sky. ” When she bought it, she said in an email, she intended to create a space that felt less like an apartment and more “like a   home with finishes and an experience like one would have in the Hamptons or even in an estate in Los Angeles. ” She seemed to have succeeded, at least when it comes to its sprawl and flourishes. The    duplex, No. 22D, is actually a combination of four units at the   Riverhouse  —   three on the 22nd floor and one on the 23rd  —   that were acquired for $10. 13 million. Ms. Banks said she spent almost as much on the extensive renovations and décor, which incorporate rich fabrics, textured wall coverings, exotic wood details and ornate light fixtures. The apartment also has surround sound,   oak floors and ample storage throughout. “New amazing ideas just kept coming and coming to me,” Ms. Banks said of the renovations, which dragged on for several months. The layout of the apartment was configured to provide maximum privacy  —   for staff, business associates, family and guests  —   with various wings that can be closed off from the rest of the unit. There are five bedrooms, five full bathrooms and three powder rooms, along with several kitchens and kitchenettes. The home is entered through a hallway on the main level that leads to a spacious living room with a connecting   room. Several feet away are the family room and open chef’s kitchen. The kitchen has two Miele dishwashers and other   appliances, along with a butler’s pantry, a copper sink and an island of zebrawood, to name a few features. Nearby is a dining alcove with banquette seating that, Ms. Banks said, was meant to resemble “a booth at a   restaurant. ” These main entertaining rooms face    windows that offer expansive views of the river and beyond. “There’s the Statue of Liberty, all the ferryboats from the New York Waterway and the Midtown skyline,” Mr. Modlin said. The lower level contains the gym, mirrored dressing room, salon and laundry area. Also there are offices and a staff suite with another full kitchen, two bedrooms and a bathroom. The staff suite has an additional entrance. And if all that were not enough, there is another   suite with a kitchenette, for guests. “She created different spaces,” Mr. Modlin said, “so you can have different things going on in the home. ” On the second level are another   bedroom and an enormous master suite, which features a sitting area, kitchenette and   shag carpeting. There are dual master bathrooms and dressing rooms, and a large marble soaking tub encased in white oak. The   Riverhouse development, which received a gold certification in the LEED environmental building rating system, offers amenities like a   concierge, valet parking, a yoga studio and fitness center, and a saltwater lap pool. It also has as a resident the actor Leonardo DiCaprio, who, like Ms. Banks, has created his own compound there. Ms. Banks said the two never ran into each other in the building. “He was always that elusive spirit that so many people talked about,” she said. “Farewell, Leo. I’ll miss my houseguests trying to spot you in our building. ”