Evidence has emerged that convicted sex offender and Bill Clinton associate Jeffrey Epstein tried to use his close relationship with Bill Clinton to get out of his conviction, and even falsely claimed, to impress authorities, that he was part of the cabal that founded the Clinton Foundation charity. [Epstein’s lawyers authored a   letter of recommendation as part of an unsuccessful plea deal to mitigate his sentence for using underage girls in a sex ring, according to Fox News.  The sex ring based in Palm Beach, Florida, and Epstein’s private estate in the Virgin Islands were dubbed “Orgy Island” by the high powered clients who indulged their desires, including, some say, former President Bill Clinton, who was a frequent visitor to Epstein’s estate. But the long letter also made the claim that Epstein was part of the group that founded the Clinton Foundation: “Mr. Epstein was part of the original group that conceived the Clinton Global Initiative, which is described as a project ‘bringing together a community of global leaders to devise and implement innovative solutions to some of the world’s most pressing challenges,” read the July 2007 letter to the U. S. Attorney’s office in the Southern District of Florida. “Focuses of this initiative include poverty, climate change, global health, and religious and ethnic conflicts. ” The claim appears to be false, or is at least questionable, as Epstein’s name does not appear on any of the official documents connected to the foundation. Fox, however, did find much evidence that Clinton was a repeat passenger on Epstein’s notorious plane. “A FoxNews. com investigation in May showed the former president was a frequent flier on Epstein’s infamous jet, dubbed the ‘Lolita Express,’” Fox noted, “which earned its   nickname because it was reportedly outfitted with a bed where passengers had group sex with young girls. ” Fox found that Clinton took at least 26 trips around the world on Epstein’s plane. Documents also show that several police agencies had been investigating Epstein for suspected incidents of child abuse, sexual exploitation, and underage prostitution throughout the time Bill Clinton was close to him. Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston or email the author at igcolonel@hotmail. com.