Just more than two weeks after the election of   Amendment Donald Trump, Hollywood and gun control groups are full steam ahead on plans to use television and movies to change Americans’ minds on gun control. [The push is marked by the November 25 release of Miss Sloane, a film about a “female lobbyist who gives herself the Herculean challenge of taking on the gun lobby. ”  According to the Daily Beast, Miss Sloane comes as gun controllers continue to wait for director Harvey Weinstein to make good on his promise to create a film that will make the NRA “wish they weren’t alive. ” Weinstein’s film, The Senator’s Wife, will star Meryl Streep. In January 2014, Weinstein told Piers Morgan, “I have to just choose movies that aren’t violent or as violent as they used to be. And I know for me, personally, I can’t continue to do that. The change starts here. It has already. ” One year later, he produced one of the most violent films of recent memory, Quentin Tarantino’s The Hateful Eight. The film was rife with gun violence. Yet Everytown for Gun Safety, the Brady Campaign to Reduce Gun Violence, and other groups have attached their cart to Weinstein’s promises to deliver on a gun control film, and they are hopeful that Miss Sloane will have some impact, as well. John Madden, director of Miss Sloane, said, “As we refer to in the film, the fallacy that any form of gun regulation is a slippery slope to confiscation is an idea that seems to have extraordinary persuasive power. ” Nonetheless, Madden believes changing minds on gun control will be an uphill battle. He stated, “If there hasn’t been any ability to shift the needle in any way in the last eight years, I can’t see it changing in the near future. ” In addition to Miss Sloane and The Senator’s Wife, gun control groups point to NetFlix’s House of Cards and CBS’ The Good Wife. Everytown worked with House of Cards to push gun control during season four of the series, and “the Brady Campaign consulted on an episode of The Good Wife” for a gun control campaign, as well. AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and host of “Bullets with AWR Hawkins,” a Breitbart News podcast. He is also the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.