The Democratic National Committee held an   meeting with the Rupert   Wall Street Journal in April, according to DNC emails released by WikiLeaks today. [A leaked email featured a schedule of numerous meetings with the media that were scheduled to take place during the week, and also included   meetings with Buzzfeed and Bloomberg.  The email was sent by Democrat National Press Secretary Mark Paustenbach to DNC staffer Kate Houghton on the 29th April, and the meetings were scheduled to take place in New York City: Tuesday, 6: :45am (tentative) Network Morning Show, 10am (tentative) MSNBC   Meeting with Mika Brzezinski and Phil Griffin, 12pm    Lunch Meeting with the Wall Street Journal Editors, Glenn Hall, National Editor Tim Layer, Deputy National Editor Chuck Hawkins, Political Editor and, Sheila Courter, Election Editor, Another email shows Communications Director Luis Miranda leaking a PDF of a letter from the Sanders campaign to a WSJ reporter. #DNCLeaks: ”OFF THE RECORD. You didn’t get this from me.” DNC leaks Sanders letter to the Wall Street Journal https:  .   —   WikiLeaks (@wikileaks) July 22, 2016,  Five days later, Miranda used the same WSJ reporter to quash complaints from the Sanders campaign about the DNC’s platform drafting appointments. #DNCLeaks: DNC Communications Director Luis Miranda secretly briefed WSJ against Sanders ”on background” https:  .   —   WikiLeaks (@wikileaks) July 22, 2016,  The Wall Street Journal is owned by media magnate Rupert Murdoch, who just negotiated the exit of Fox News CEO and conservative icon Roger Ailes. It is unknown as to what the meetings were about. You can read the full email below: Here’s the current plan. Will move Wall Street Journal to an 11: :30pm meeting  —   not a lunch. Monday 3:45pm (tentative)    Meeting with Bloomberg   editors OR Free time, 4: :50pm Bloomberg TV: “With All Due Respect” Location: 731 Lexington Avenue (East 58th Street and Lexington Avenue) Contact: Querry Robinson, 4:45pm Arrival time for hair and makeup, 5: :45pm Hit Time, 5:50pm Leave Bloomberg Studio, Tuesday, 6: :45am (tentative) Network Morning Show, 10am (tentative) MSNBC   Meeting with Mika Brzezinski and Phil Griffin, 12pm    Lunch Meeting with the Wall Street Journal Editors, Glenn Hall, National Editor Tim Layer, Deputy National Editor Chuck Hawkins, Political Editor and, Sheila Courter, Election Editor, Location: 1211 Avenue of the Americas, Contact: Glenn Hall, 4: :15pm Buzzfeed News,  —      Meeting with Ben Smith,     —   Podcast Taping with Evan   Chief Campaign Reporter Location: 111 East 18th Street (between Park Avenue and Irving Place) Contact: Meredith Kennedy, Charlie Nash is a reporter for Breitbart Tech. You can follow him on Twitter @MrNashington or like his page at Facebook.