In the final days of the 2000 Senate race, Bill Cosby appeared with Hillary Clinton at an election eve rally in Buffalo, a working class town where a lot of the locals thought Hillary was kind of phony. Although he spent millions of dollars, Congressman Rick Lazio would lose the race, demonstrating how NOT to run against a woman. [“Cosby was a real asshole from the minute he hit town,” G. D. Parenti, a long time Western New York Democrat who was a volunteer on the Clinton advance team pulling the event together, told me in a recent interview. “He had the best suite in the city, it was nicer than Hillary’s suite. He kept calling it a ‘toilet’ and said the place was a ‘dump,’” said Parenti, a Hillary Clinton supporter.  “Cosby told me he wouldn’t   with any of the ‘local ’ as he called them, but would instead be whisked from the holding room to the podium at the boisterous rally. Cosby would not pose for pictures with local dignitaries or fans. I almost got run over by Chuck Schumer elbowing his way to be in the camera shot with Cosby,” said Parenti who’s family has been in the accounting business in Western New York for 75 years. “Chelsea Clinton chewed my ass because Schumer was standing on her taped marker we had laid out in the walk through,” he said. “‘Parenti. You dumb sunuvabitch,’ she bellowed. ‘I’m getting you fired,’ she said. She seemed upset when I told her I was a volunteer. ” Parenti also told me he spoke with the young woman who was the Clinton campaign volunteer assigned as Cosby’s driver, who told him Cosby asked her to his room for a glass of wine and got “nasty” after she refused the veteran comedian and accused sexual predator the second time. Even now Bill and Hillary refuse to return the donation Cosby gave to the Clinton Foundation, an alleged slush fund for the Clintons and their daughter. It’s ironic that Cosby is a friend and donor of the Clintons. Bill Clinton, like Bill Cosby, is accused of being a sexual predator. As I document in my book The Clintons’ War on Women, Bill has allegedly attacked,   bit, raped or exposed himself while in a state of arousal to Eileen Wellstone, Juanita Broaddrick, Carolyn Moffet, Liz Ward Gracen, Becky Brown, Helen Dowdy, Paula Jones, Kathy Fergusen, Christy Zercher, and Kathleen Willey among dozens of other alleged victims. This is documented by my book The Clintons’ War on Women, which is 445 pages long and backed up with 586 footnotes and a bibliography of 157 books. Just as Cosby’s wife attacks Cosby’s victims, Hillary has allegedly attacked those women who claim to have been sexually assaulted or raped by her husband. Thanks to Donald Trump, the mainstream media won’t be able to sweep Bill’s dark past, and Hillary’s true role in it, under the rug. The media will try to pretend the issue is martial infidelity or adultery. The media will even attack Trump on his own past regarding marriage. But this is about neither. It’s about the crimes of sexual assault and rape. In every one of Bill’s alleged sex crimes, Hillary, I would argue, is an accessory after the fact. It’s about Hillary. It’’s about the alleged terror campaigns by Hillary to discredit, degrade, and silence Bill’s alleged victims. It’s about Hillary’s alleged abuse of women and willingness to crush them to acquire power and wealth.