TEL AVIV  —   Bernie Sanders continues to elevate opponents of Israel and pushes forward with his own criticism of the Jewish state, but comic legend Jackie Mason is having none of it. [“I don’t believe anybody in America really knows the degree of hate that he has for Israel,” Mason told this reporter in a radio interview on Sunday. “And the press somehow is shielding him from any information about it. Because it’s a Democratic Party press. ”  Mason was speaking during his regular segment on “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio,” broadcast on New York’s AM 970 The Answer and NewsTalk 990 AM in Philadelphia. Sander’s latest slight came with the candidate’s appointment to the   Democratic Party platform committee of two proponents of the boycott Israel movement. This after appointing numerous   advisers to his own campaign. Sanders also has slandered Israel with the lie that the Jewish state killed “over 10, 000 innocent people” during the 2014 Gaza War, and wrongly claimed Israel bombed “hospitals” during that defensive war aimed at diminishing Hamas’s rocket attacks on Israeli civilian population centers. Mason contended that Sanders “hates the state of Israel. ” “While he denies it and says he supports Israel’s right to exist, he would do anything in the world to destroy their right to exist. It’s like me trying to tell somebody I want to help you at the same time that I’m trying to burn his house down.  This is an unbelievable character. ” Sanders spews “all kinds of propaganda, lies about Israel,” charged Mason. “This guy actually is like [Ernest] Hemingway. Inventing stories about Israel that never happened because he is so desperate to attack it and basically destroy Israel while he is pretending to support it. “This is a real   Jew. And if he wasn’t a Jew, everybody would just call him an  . That’s basically what he is. He is in denial, ashamed and embarrassed about being Jewish, and he would like to destroy his own identity. Mason claimed that Hillary Clinton also dislikes Israel, but that she needs to hide her alleged disdain for electoral reasons: The Democrats in general basically are more in favor of the Palestinians than Israel  …    but they would never say it publically.  Hillary is against Israel in a hundred different ways. And kept blaming Israel for every settlement. Every time we built a kitchen she was attacking Israel. Every time we extended a toilet she was against Israel.  She kept making speeches that Israel is doing something wrong when we didn’t even do anything yet. As soon as an Israeli gets up in the morning she always would find something wrong with him. The fact that Israel exists always bothers her, but publically she always maintained that she is in favor of Israel. She never had the nerve to invent stories about bombings we never created, and attacks we never made and crimes we never committed. Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio. ” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook