After having spent years starring in the blockbuster Harry Potter film franchise, Emma Watson’s latest film, The Colony, pulled in a paltry £47 in her native United Kingdom this weekend  —   or about $60. 75 in U. S. dollars. [The political thriller opened in five cinemas, with three theaters reporting weekend sales numbers, according to The Telegraph.  “Ticket prices at the venues suggest that only seven people paid to see the film,” the British website reported. The Colony, directed by   Florian Gallenberger, follows a German woman (Watson) who rescues her boyfriend (Daniel Brühll) from a cult led by Nazi paedophile Paul Schäfer. The film’s distributor, Signature Entertainment, downplayed the depressing ticket sales, noting that the movie’s target audience was simultaneous   viewers who’d watch The Colony on their laptops. “We wanted to ensure the title was accessible to everyone by releasing it simultaneously in limited screens and on demand  —   allowing consumers to enjoy the movie in any environment they wish,” a company spokesman said. Watson’s last movie credit was Noah, another critical and theatrical flop. The 2014 film grossed $101 million domestically on a $125 million budget. In the years since starring in the Biblical thriller, the    actress has taken up a number of social causes, becoming an advocate for gender equality and immigration. Last January at the World Economic Forum, as a U. N. Women Goodwill Ambassador, Watson helped launch the gender equality campaign “HeForShe,” in which she asked governments, universities, and companies to help “bring an end to the persisting inequalities faced by women and girls globally. ” The Beauty and the Beast star took to Twitter in January and asked her 22 millions followers for name ideas for her new feminist book club. Hi Team, ❤️ I want to start a feminist book club but so far have only brainstormed ’Feminist Book Club’ and ’Emma Watson Book Club’.  —   Emma Watson (@EmWatson) January 6, 2016,  Watson also used the social media service last September to publicly announce her support for mass European immigration. #refugeeswelcome,  —   Emma Watson (@EmWatson) September 7, 2015,  Watson’s next movie, Disney’s Beauty and the Beast, hits theaters March 2017.   Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson