■ The Senate Judiciary Committee, in a      vote, sent the nomination of Judge Neil M. Gorsuch for the Supreme Court to the full Senate for consideration. ■ Democrats now seem to have the votes to filibuster Judge Gorsuch’s nomination. ■ But Republicans will most likely vote to change Senate practices later in the week so that Judge Gorsuch could be approved with a simple majority vote. ■ The tenor of the Judiciary Committee strongly suggests that the full Senate debate on Judge Gorsuch will be even more contentious. With an announcement from Senator Chris Coons, Democrat of Delaware, during the Judiciary Committee’s hearing to vote on Judge Gorsuch’s nomination, Democrats found their 41st vote in support of a filibuster, sending the body hurtling toward a bitter partisan confrontation this week. Read more » As senators began revealing their votes on Monday, partisan acrimony predominated. Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa and the committee’s chairman, accused Democrats of searching in vain for credible reasons to vote against Judge Gorsuch. “This nominee that we’re voting on today is a judge’s judge,” he said. “He’s a picture of the kind of justice we should have on the Supreme Court. ” Mr. Grassley suggested that some attacks in recent weeks from Democrats, which have included criticisms of the spending push from outside groups supporting Judge Gorsuch, defied the country’s values. “This is America,” he said, “where people can spend their money where they want to spend it. ” Taking her turn next, Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, the committee’s top Democrat, criticized Judge Gorsuch’s record on workers’ rights and his reluctance to answer questions. She did thank Mr. Grassley for overseeing the hearings fairly. Ms. Feinstein also reminded the public about the treatment last year of Judge Merrick B. Garland, President Barack Obama’s nominee for the seat left by Justice Antonin Scalia, who died in February 2016. Republicans refused to even consider Judge Garland during a presidential election year. “In my view, this is not a routine nomination,” she said at the top of her remarks. In his own comments, Mr. Grassley expressed no regrets. “I believe then and I believe now that we took the right course for the Senate and for the court,” he said. From the hearing’s opening moments, lawmakers took turns lamenting the state of the Senate, holding forth on the present divisions but appearing resigned to the institutional upheaval that awaits this week. Few sounded as aggrieved as Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont and the body’s   member. He first suggested that Republicans’ treatment of Judge Garland last year had convinced Judge Gorsuch that “this committee is nothing more than a partisan rubber stamp,” allowing the nominee to evade straightforward questions during his hearings. He said that Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican majority leader, had “promised to use whatever tactic is necessary to get his way, to make sure that Donald Trump’s nominee is confirmed, even if that means forever damaging the United States Senate. ” “Now, I respect this institution as much as anyone. I never expected to be here long enough to become the dean of the Senate,” Mr. Leahy said. “I’ve devoted myself to the good the Senate can accomplish. But I cannot vote solely to protect an institution when the rights of   Americans are at risk. Because I fear that the Senate I would be defending no longer exists. ” As the committee continued debating Judge Gorsuch’s nomination, Republicans received a modest lift outside the hearing room: Senator Michael Bennet of Colorado said he would not join fellow Democrats in filibustering the nomination. He urged Republicans against the   nuclear option, changing the rules to allow Judge Gorsuch to be approved on a simple majority vote instead of the 60 votes now required. “Neither Republicans nor Democrats are blameless for where things stand in our politics and on this nomination,” Mr. Bennet said in a statement, which did not reveal his voting intentions on Judge Gorsuch’s nomination itself. “But at some point, we need to take the long view and stand up for our institutions. ” What happens next will most likely be up to Republicans. And their intentions seem clear. “What I can tell you is that Neil Gorsuch will be confirmed this week,” Mr. McConnell told Chuck Todd on NBC’s “Meet the Press. ” Practically, this will almost certainly require Republicans to change Senate practice and elevate Judge Gorsuch on a simple majority vote. The strain has already compelled leaders from both parties to adopt the    tone of hostage negotiators  —   and the   senatorial tic of leavening criticism by calling opponents “friends. ” “Our Republican friends are acting like, you know, they’re a cat on the top of a tree and they have to jump off, with all the damage that entails,” Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, told “Meet the Press,” urging Mr. Trump to submit a new judge. “Come back off the tree, sit down and work with us. ” Mr. McConnell chose to forgo analogies. Judge Gorsuch will get his new robes, he suggested, and “how that happens really depends on our Democratic friends. ”