In the spirit of kindler, gentler politics, Breitbart Editor in Chief was yesterday threatened on social media by a Remain campaigner who called for Kassam to be ‘attacked’. [The Twitter user, known as ‘Mujahid’ interjected on a Twitter thread, directly calling for a physical attack to be made at Kassam, stating: “Let’s attack this b*st*rd Raheem. ”  The user’s profile shows that he retweets from the official Stronger In profile, as well as a number of ‘social justice’ groups, including Stand Up To Racism and Black Lives Matter, and posts extensively against Israel and UKIP. This comes after prominent Remain campaigners have come out telling Leave to ‘tone down the rhetoric’. London Mayor Sadiq Khan said on Sky News the EU referendum has become “poisonous” and “we should all reflect on the way the referendum campaign has been conducted”. Using the death of Labour MP Jo Cox as political capital days before the referendum, Chancellor of the Exchequer and Remain campaigner George Osborne told Leave campaigners on ITV this morning: “I hope because of the tragic death of Jo [Cox] we can have a less divisive political debate in our country. ” “And, particularly in the last few days of this referendum, we can have less baseless assertion and inflammatory rhetoric,” he added. If this ‘inflammatory rhetoric’ is emanating from the referendum dialogue it is not, in isolation, coming from one side of the debate as Mr. Osborne is implying. Mr. Osborne went on to say that Nigel Farage’s “breaking point” poster was “disgusting and vile”  —   but then promptly compares UKIP to Nazis. A comparison coming from the top of the Remain campaign that is both disgusting and vile. This morning on ITV’s Peston on Sunday, UKIP leader Nigel Farage stated that:  “I think I’ve been a politician that has been a victim of it [hatred] to be honest with you. ” Mr. Farage is no stranger to threats and violence against him during his political career. Earlier this month violent, masked   demonstrators shut down a UKIP bus tour. Last year Mr. Farage and his young daughters were mobbed by   protesters while they were enjoying a Sunday lunch, and the UKIP leader is still subject to threats such as the one below: 