Pat Buchanan writes in his latest column that Donald Trump’s path to victory is still open. [At stake in 2016 is the White House, the Supreme Court, the Senate and, possibly, control of the House of Representatives.  Hence, Republicans have a decision to make. Will they set aside political and personal feuds and come together to win in November, after which they can fight over the future of the party, and the country? Or will they split apart, settling scores now, lose it all, and, then, after November, begin a battle to allocate blame for a historic defeat that will leave wounds that will never heal. Republicans have been here before. After the crushing defeat of 1964, Govs. Nelson Rockefeller, George Romney and William Scranton, whose principles required them to abandon Barry Goldwater, discovered that, when the cheering of the press stopped, they carried the mark of Cain. As national leaders, they were finished. Richard Nixon, who had lost to JFK, lost to Gov. Pat Brown, quit politics and moved to New York to practice law, took off two months in 1964 to campaign for Barry Goldwater. Four years later, with Barry’s backing, Nixon was rewarded with the party’s nomination, and the presidency. Now between Goldwater and Trump there are great differences. A relevant one is this: Trump still has a chance of becoming president. In August 1964, Barry was 36 points behind LBJ. As of today, Trump is 10 points behind Clinton. From Harry Truman to George H. W. Bush, many presidential candidates have been able to close a   gap and win. What does Trump need to do? In the words of Dr. Martin Luther King, “Keep your eyes on the prize”  —   the presidency. And between Trump and the presidency today stands not Paul Ryan, but Hillary Clinton. The Donald, his campaign, and party need to cease attacking one another to the elation of a hostile media, and redirect all their fire on the sole obstacle between them and a Republican sweep. Nor is it all that complex or difficult a task. For, as secretary of state, Clinton made a compelling case for her being ranked as about the worst in American history. [  …    ] Trump, though, needs not only to make the case against her, but for himself, and for the ideas that vaulted him to victory in the primaries that brought out millions of new voters. What are they? Trump will secure the Southern border and halt the invasion of illegal immigrants. He will throw out the Obama tax and trade policies that have betrayed American workers and bled us of our manufacturing power. In all future trade deals, Americanism will replace globalism as our guiding light. Where Clinton regards Ruth Bader Ginsburg as her model Supreme Court justice, Trump’s nominees will be in the tradition of Justice Antonin Scalia. “America First” will be the polestar in foreign policy. Cold War commitments dating to the 1950s, to fight wars for freeloader nations, will all be reviewed. Allies will start standing on their own feet and paying their fair share of the cost of their own defense. Read the rest here.