GLENDALE, Ariz.  —   Dressed in crisp Nike uniforms, boasting tall and talented players, competing for a coach who has been with the program through 19 straight N. C. A. A. tournament appearances, the Gonzaga Bulldogs looked as   as any member of college basketball’s aristocracy on Saturday night. And that was before play even began. The   Bulldogs ( ) then stayed with, built a lead on and survived a late scare from South Carolina ( ) which plays in the Southeastern Conference and had beaten traditional powers seeded second, third and fourth in the past two weeks to make it to the Final Four. But South Carolina could not beat Gonzaga, whose   win put it in the national championship game Monday night against another No. 1 seed, North Carolina. Gonzaga had two talented players who are at least 7 feet tall  —   one, Przemek Karnowski, an experienced   senior the other, Zach Collins, a former McDonald’s   who could be drafted after his freshman season. They made beautiful partners on defense, with one blocking shots and the other collecting the loose balls. Two of Gonzaga’s leading scorers, Nigel   and Jordan Mathews, had transferred from   teams.   who scored a   23 points, also had a top high school résumé. He attended the Las   powerhouse Findlay Prep, a cradle of recent N. B. A.   draft picks. This year’s success all made sense, then: Gonzaga spent a significant chunk of the season as the No. 1 team in The Associated Press’s Top 25, while the final poll, taken just before the N. C. A. A. tournament began, had the team at No. 2. The advanced analytics website KenPom. com ranks Gonzaga No. 1  —   and has every day since    —   as do advanced measurements like ESPN’s B. P. I. Jeff Sagarin’s rankings, Joel Sokol’s L. R. M. C. and Sonny Moore’s Computer Power Ratings. In other words, you could be forgiven for not realizing that this was Gonzaga’s first appearance in the Final Four. More important, you might not know that the Bulldogs play in the   West Coast Conference, an affiliation that denies them not only the millions of dollars in annual revenue taken in by members of leagues that sign television contracts influenced by football, but also the opportunity to annually play a lot of other teams that are backed by such huge resources and are loaded with major talent. It is not just    carping to wonder if the Bulldogs, at last, can run with the big dogs. No serious observer of college basketball thinks that Gonzaga, which made an    run to the round of 8 in 1999 and has not missed the tournament since, is simply a midmajor with a remarkable lucky streak. “It’s not 1997 anymore,” South Carolina Coach Frank Martin said after Saturday’s game. “They were Cinderella and all that pretty stuff” 20 years ago, Martin continued, adding, “They’re as   as   can get. ” But there is still a pretty wide gap between accepting that the Bulldogs, despite their structural obstacles, are a very solid basketball team this season and believing that they are actually the best team in the country. They have not been able to test themselves against elite competition as frequently as teams in the six power conferences have. And the games they had against such competition came earlier, before teams had a chance to jell. In February, while North Carolina was busy beating Notre Dame, Virginia and Louisville (and losing at Duke) Gonzaga was drubbing middling opponents like Santa Clara, Pacific and San Diego. “They’re a lot more athletic in different conferences,” the redshirt sophomore Josh Perkins said, although he added that the stellar shooting in the W. C. C. required consistently frantic defense. Gonzaga’s ordinary scheduling has been aggravated by its tournament run, during which the Bulldogs have played teams seeded No. 16, No. 8, No. 4, No. 11 and No. 7. Yet KenPom. com’s numbers still rank Gonzaga as the best team in the country  —   with the best defense and the   offense  —   after adjusting for level of competition, and even after weighting more recent games. Ken Pomeroy, the proprietor of the website, squared the circle by pointing not to the teams Gonzaga had beaten but to how the Bulldogs had done it. “Obviously, it doesn’t say much when you’re beating Santa Clara that game doesn’t mean much,” Pomeroy said. “But when you play a series of games against teams like that and win them all easily, that does tell you something. ” In that light, the picture becomes clearer. Gonzaga won 13 games by 30 or more points and 23 by 20 or more. Its average margin of victory entering Saturday night’s game, 22. 3 points, was the best in Division I. The Bulldogs beat   tournament teams like Iowa State, Florida and Arizona. They also won three times, always by double digits, against their top conference rival, St. Mary’s, which received an   bid to the N. C. A. A. tournament. In the tournament, Gonzaga beat West Virginia, a fourth seed that many believed was one of the country’s top 10 teams Xavier, which had knocked off highly regarded Florida State and Arizona and South Carolina. Because college football and basketball have shorter seasons, uneven scheduling and brisker postseasons than their professional counterparts, much analysis consists of reviewing résumés. But doing so invariably conveys less information than is often assumed. There is nothing about playing a weak schedule  —   and even now, Gonzaga has played a weak schedule compared with other contenders  —   that inherently prevents a team from being great, or the best. Of course, as   said Saturday, “We can’t control who we played. ” He was referring to Gonzaga’s tournament slate, although the statement also applied to the bulk of his team’s regular season. Gonzaga can control the outcomes, however. On Monday night, it will have the opportunity to make a statement for which there is no valid rebuttal.