Satirical, lifestyle blog, and alleged sports website, Barstool Sports, was not very happy with a recent photo of Mike Pence, Paul Ryan, Kevin McCarthy, and other GOP lawmakers because everyone was white. [UNIFIED. pic. twitter.   —   House Republicans (@HouseGOP) November 17, 2016,   Founder of the website and CEO David Portnoy announced in January that Barstool Sports was acquired by The Chernin Group, which the Massachusetts native claims will propel the website “to the moon. ” In a video shot in Times Square, NYC, a group of white guys, which includes Portnoy, gloat about how much smarter and funnier they are than all the other internet sports outlets. Demonstrating how much smarter they are than Republicans, Barstool Sports published the photo on Thursday admonishing the GOP “for being old f —  ing morons who don’t know how shit you put on the internet is gonna blow up in your face. ”  The   “by the common man, for the common man,” website, explained:  These fucking idiots, man. How dumb can you guys be? This shit leigt happened a few months ago when the GOP interns tweeted their selfie with Paul Ryan and absolutely everyone was white. Of course, the internet lost it’s mind because that’s what the internet does and it’s also pretty preposterous to have an   room with that many people unless you’re at Barstool HQ. But to make the same mistake again? Tweet a room full of whiteys captioned “UNIFIED” while people of color are kiiiinda freaking out that a GOP majority everywhere might not be the best thing for them? That’s just idiotic. I’m not even scolding you for being whiter than a Klans meeting (though, to be fair, you really should look into mixing in some color, you know?) I’m just scolding you for being old fucking morons who don’t know how shit you put on the internet is gonna blow up in your face. In a postscript to the article Barstool Sports exclaims that they did find one black person “in the back of the room,” prompting them to ask the question, “Rosa Parks, ever heard of her?” 