José Estrella pulled a handkerchief to cover his face as he began to speak. The air around the morgue in Mocoa was filled with the smell of the dead, he said, who included his sister and two nephews. “Now the bodies are decomposing because they are in open air,” said Mr. Estrella, his voice cracking as he spoke by telephone. He was unable to retrieve the bodies, he said the morgue, overloaded with the dead, was understaffed. The bodies were piling up on Monday morning in Mocoa, a Colombian city where mud and debris had made it impossible in places to see that anyone had ever lived there. Rescue workers continued to scour the rubble for the dead. And family members, like Mr. Estrella, pleaded for the bodies of loved ones so they could offer them a proper burial. The provincial capital in the southern mountains of the country was devastated by a flood of water and debris on Saturday that has so far claimed at least 262 lives. The heavy rains caused nearby rivers to rise, generating a torrent that leveled homes and neighborhoods. “The putrefaction is beginning,” said Nixon Piaguaje, a local radio journalist. Rescue teams, some covered in mud, waded through a landscape of stone and earth in what in many cases had become a search for bodies rather than survivors. Hundreds of relief workers arrived in the town to distribute supplies. President Juan Manuel Santos acknowledged “bottlenecks” in the relief process, but said more help would be arriving soon and promised a full reconstruction of the city. Edgar Ruiz, an indigenous leader, expressed frustration in a phone interview after trudging through the mud searching for lost members from his community, the Siona people. So far, he said, he had located six families alive from his group, but eight more were unaccounted for. “We went to the health centers and the morgue as well, but they were nowhere,” he said. Mr. Santos said that at least 43 of the dead were children. “We send our prayers to all of them,” he said. “To their families we send condolences and the sympathy of the entire country. ” Colombian television transmitted images of loved ones still searching for lost children in the rubble. “I did everything that was possible: I told my son don’t let go, and he said he wouldn’t,” Yuri Narváez told Colombian television station Caracol TV. “But the current came and we lost him. ” Mr. Piaguaje, the radio journalist, said there were so many bodies that there was no one to bury them all. “When someone finds a cadaver, they take them to the cemetery and just leave them there,” he said. He said scores of bodies were still lying in open air. On Monday afternoon, Mr. Estrella, the man who was unable to get the bodies of his relatives in the morgue, recalled rushing to the neighborhood of San Miguel after hearing the mudslide to see if his family members were still alive. Instead he looked on as rescue workers pulled out their bodies: First his sister, who lay near the ruins of her home, then her two daughters, one 8, the other just 5 months. He said he had since been haunted by the smell of the dead. “You smell it for hundreds of feet,” he said. “There are people who faint when they open the bags and the bodies are putrefied. ”