John Cena popped the question to Nikki Bella on one knee. The Undertaker put one foot in the grave. And if you don’t know the significance of these two events, you are not one of the millions of fans who watched Sunday night as the 33rd annual WrestleMania event unfolded. About 75, 000 attended the live show in Orlando’s Camping World Stadium. The “Showcase of the Immortals”  —   as World Wrestling Entertainment Inc. likes to market the card  —   fulfilled its usual role of celebrating and capstoning a year of storytelling for the insular and bombastic world of wrestling entertainment. And make no mistake, that world is a big one: The WWE is a $1. 65 billion dollar company that has 750 million social media followers across multiple platforms and reports at least 3 million weekly television viewers. The major news of the evening for those who keep track of wrestling story lines had little to do with the main events in the ring. All five championship belts changed hands. But a proposal and a retirement were the most significant developments. Mr. Cena, a longtime WWE performer (and burgeoning movie star) proposed to his girlfriend and fellow wrestler, Stephanie Nicole   better known to fans as Nikki Bella. The proposal and presentation of a giant engagement ring came in the middle of the ring, but only after the couple successfully performed in a mixed   bout with matching finishing moves. She said yes. The Twitter account she shares with her sister, Brie, spread the news. The biggest news was saved for the finale when another longtime WWE performer, the Undertaker, made a dramatic, prolonged exit from the stadium to close the broadcast. Modern professional wrestling traces its lineage back through cable wars, territory fights, Vaudeville and carnival “strong man” contests. Throughout, performers who break the fourth wall talk of retirees “going out on their back” to make sure that favorable fan impressions of heroism are passed on to the next generation. And so it was last night when the anointed next big star, Roman Reigns, pinned the fabled Undertaker clean in the middle of the ring. Retirement for the performer, known in civilian life as Mark William Calaway, was never explicitly stated by the announcers on the broadcast or posted to the throbbing oversized screens in the stadium. But in a modern nod to the old tradition, chants of “Thank you, Taker” filled the arena, and corresponding hashtags flooded social media after the Undertaker left his fighting gloves, hat, and duster jacket in the middle of the ring. That these were the two most noteworthy events of wrestling’s most highly publicized night is curious. Both Mr. Cena and the Undertaker have been   performers for the WWE at this point, showing up every couple of weeks or monthly. Other performers work weekly on televised programming and at regional “house” shows. Over the last decade, the WWE has developed a formula of using high profile   performers like this for major events. For instance, the MMA competitor Brock Lesnar will drop in for a several monthslong engagements and just as quickly disappear from known story lines. This year three of the most established   performers were notably absent: Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson, “Stone Cold” Steve Austin and Hulk Hogan. These absences opened up prominent places in the spotlights for emerging performers at WrestleMania like A. J Styles and Kevin Owens. It was not clear if this was part of a planned changing of the guard or other palace intrigue engineered by Vince McMahon, the founder and owner of the wrestling empire. Fans will have to search for the truth amid the innuendo found in trade publications, or the lore of “kayfabe,” the pro wrestling community’s phrase for the staged story lines that may or may not speak to underlying   rivalries. On Sunday night, the mass entertainment value was on full display. Mr. McMahon is known to enjoy connecting his wrestling product to mass culture by drawing celebrities to the event. Muhammed Ali, Liberace and Cyndi Lauper appeared at the first WrestleMania. So many other   names have appeared since to fill a pretty robust Wikipedia page dedicated to chronicling special appearances  —   including one in 2007 by Donald J. Trump. This year’s iteration was no exception. Rob Gronkowski, the star tight end of the New England Patriots, jumped in from the crowd to get involved in a Battle Royal match. The pop stars Pitbull and Flo Rida performed. Al Roker took a turn as ring announcer for a match. For the fans, this was their Super Bowl, their Oscars. And now it is done for another year until the next annual WrestleMania event in New Orleans, when the only seeming certainty is that for the first time in 25 years, no gong over the loudspeaker will announce the entrance of The Undertaker. Of course, this being professional wrestling, never say never.