NEW YORK CITY, New York  —   On Breitbart News Saturday, before FBI director James Comey again rushed to clear Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Rodham Clinton before the election, retired U. S. Army Lt. Gen. Michael T. Flynn detailed how she broke the law with her illicit,   email server. [“It was a violation of the law. It’s not just violation of State Department guidelines,” Flynn told SiriusXM host Matthew Boyle. “Let’s forget about the pedophilia, let’s forget about the Clinton Foundation for a second and let’s focus on Hillary Clinton’s grave risk that she’s placed our country at by using a private server to do business at the most sensitive levels of our government. ”  “That’s beyond [just against] State Department policy. That’s a criminal act,” he added. “I have been part of investigations where people have spied on our country or done espionage been used to extort information for purposes of damaging our country. That’s what Hillary Clinton has done. This is beyond violating State Department policy. If that’s all it was, I wouldn’t be sitting here today. This is an unbelievable active criminal behavior. ” Flynn said that the media is covering up Clinton’s alleged crimes: People need to know what this is and so the mainstream media —  all of the media, basically 99 percent of the media —  doesn’t even bother with it anymore. Nobody even covers it anymore. This is dangerous for our country and then you throw in all this stuff from this past week —  you have this case against Anthony Weiner and he’s directly tied to Hillary Clinton. He’s under multiple investigations. Then you have the Clinton Foundation, which is under multiple investigations by the FBI, and not just one but multiple. You have the reopening of the national security investigation by the FBI directly against Hillary Clinton, that’s another one that’s open. So I mean we are stupid people, we are stupid people in this country is we elect Hillary Clinton to be our next president because we’re going to have nothing but scandal and dark cloud scandal over our country for the next four years and we cannot afford it with all the problems we face in this country and all the problems we face around the world. What we need is we need to drain the damn swamp. We need to get new leadership in our country, we need to get fresh blood in our country, and we need to stop the madness we are facing with this era of corruption in our country that has been going on for decades. We have got to stop it. Flynn was President Barack Obama’s Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) director for two years. A lifelong Democrat, this is the first time he’s ever supported a Republican for president in his life in Donald J. Trump —  the Republican nominee for president. He expects many more Democrats like himself, thanks to Clinton’s indefensible behavior, to vote for Trump. “What we’re going to see is not only a strong Republican turnout but strong Democratic turnout for Donald Trump,” Flynn said. “We’re going to see people going in that are registered Democrats going in and say ‘I’m voting for Trump because I can’t vote for this crooked person, this criminal person who has damaged our country. ’” Flynn also said this is “more than the most important” election in most Americans’ lifetimes. “It’s more than the most important presidential election in our lifetimes,” Flynn said. “It’s one of the most important in the history of our country. You can rattle off guys like George Washington, Abraham Lincoln, both Teddy and Franklin Roosevelt. Ronald Reagan. This raises to that level, because our country is either going to become a socialist country or we’re going to continue on a path to prosperity with Donald Trump. ” “The closing arguing, and it’s really one of the questions I had asked when I first met him —  ‘Why do you want to be president?’ —  he loves this country. Donald Trump loves the United States of America,” he continued. “He has been able to benefit from the time he was a kid all the way up, he has seen what the power of opportunity and what the power of prosperity can bring to the United States of America and he knows he has the leadership and the vision and he’s got the team of people around him to be able to do that. He sincerely understands. ” “He has the instincts, he has the leadership ability, he has the   ability and he has the vision. His vision statement, ‘Let’s Make America Great Again,’ has captured the imagination of millions and millions of people around the country and that’s why I believe really strongly he’s going to be our next president,” he said. He added that as Donald Trump barnstorms blue states like Minnesota, Virginia and more, the Clinton campaign is in “a tailspin” thanks to Hillary Clinton’s illicit actions during her time as Secretary of State. “I think if you watch the tailspin that the entire Clinton machine is in right now, for just a number of criminal activities, it’s just stunning,” Flynn said. “I can’t even understand why anyone would go out and vote for her, to be honest with you. ” “The firewall states that the Democrats and Hillary Clinton had no problem winning is where Donald Trump now is either even or up if you believe the polls. I don’t,” he continued. “What I believe is that there is an incredible amount of enthusiasm to change the leadership in Washington, D. C. and as Donald has so clearly stated, to drain the swamp of the political establishment in Washington, D. C. ” “Places like Michigan is one of the states, even New Hampshire —  he’s been in and out of New Hampshire now quite a bit —  and other places. There’s Wisconsin, you’re going to see Colorado in play, you’re going to see even New Mexico I believe is going to be close,” he said. “So he’s in Florida right now, and he’s getting ready to depart and he’s going to be moving basically to the northern part of the country and then out west and he’s going to be talking to a bunch of the people he’s been talking to and then there’s an incredible amount of enthusiasm not only in the campaign team but also for Donald around the country. ” “We really do need new leadership,” Flynn added. “My God, look at all the stuff that’s coming out not just on Hillary Clinton and the classified information and how she just placed our country at grave risk for everything that we do while she was Secretary of State but also the sick, disgusting behavior of some of the people who are around her. ” Breitbart News Saturday airs from 10 AM to 1 PM EST every Saturday on SiriusXM Patriot 125. LISTEN:  