Actor Mickey Rourke unloaded on Donald Trump in an   rant Wednesday night, calling the GOP presidential frontrunner “the biggest scumbag on the planet” whose wife, Melania, is “one of the biggest golddiggers around”  —   while threatening to beat the candidate with a baseball bat. [“Before I throw this first pitch out, I just want to say  —   the biggest scumbag on the planet is that maggot with an ‘f’ in front of it, Donald Trump,” the    action star told TMZ while playing a game of catch with a friend in Beverly Hills Wednesday night.   “F*ck him, f*ck the horse he rode in on,” Rourke continued, adding: “I think his wife is one of the biggest golddiggers around. I know, I used to go out with a golddigger. I mean, how could you sleep next to that flabby, fat piece of sh*t and get your rocks off? Motherf*cker’s gotta have millions sticking out of his a**hole, I mean, you’ve gotta go to bed with that every night? You’ve gotta be a golddigger. ” The former    star told TMZ that Trump had sued him and the rapper 2Pac several years ago, though it was unclear what he had allegedly been sued for. “Donald Trump can go f*ck himself, His wife said, ‘Oh, he’s a tough guy.’ He’s not a tough guy, he’s a bully and a b*tch and he can suck my f*cking d*ck. I’ll meet him in a hotel room any motherf*cking day of the week and give him a Louisville slugger. Kiss my motherf*cking ass you b*tch punk c***sucker. ” This isn’t the first time Rourke has angrily cursed out the Republican presidential candidate and threatened him with violence in September, the actor called Trump a “  b*tch bully” and said he’d “love to have 30 seconds in a room with the little b*tch. ” Rourke has mostly kept a low profile since he returned to boxing in November 2014, when he fought and defeated    Elliott Seymour in a bout in Russia. Seymour later alleged that he was paid $15, 000 to throw that fight. Rourke’s threats against Trump came just a few days after the rapper Everlast similarly threatened physical violence against the candidate. “If I met Donald Trump, I’d punch him in his f —  ing face,” the rapper told Billboard earlier this week. “And that’s not a joke. Even if he did become president  —   watch out, Donald Trump, because I will punch you in your f —  ing face if I ever meet you. Secret Service had better just f —  ing be on it. Don’t let me anywhere within a block. This is horrible. ” The comments come as violent rhetoric against Trump has intensified in recent months. In March, Comedy Central host Larry Wilmore joked about suffocating the candidate with “the pillow they used to kill Scalia,” and just a few days before that, comedian George Lopez tweeted a graphic illustration of drug lord El Chapo Guzman holding Trump’s severed head atop a pile of skulls. Earlier this month, rappers YG and Nipsey Hustle released a new song called “FDT (F*ck Donald Trump),” in which the pair make various threats against the candidate. Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum