Veteran Democratic pollster Pat Caddell brought up Mitt Romney’s infamous “47 percent” gaffe to point out the hypocrisy of the failed 2012 GOP presidential nominee’s declaration that Donald Trump’s recent Sunday show gaffe disqualified him for the presidency. [In an interview this morning with Breitbart News Daily host and Breitbart News Executive Chairman Stephen K. Bannon, Caddell flashed back to Romney’s infamous “47 percent” gaffe while discussing Trump’s response to questions from CNN’s Jake Tapper about an endorsement from KKK figure David Duke.  Trump’s confused answer sparked a media firestorm from his critics, despite his multiple disavowals of the KKK figure. The GOP frontrunner later claimed that he was given a “very bad earpiece” and could not clearly hear Tapper’s questions. Romney took to Twitter to blast Trump’s answer to Tapper, calling it “disqualifying  disgusting. ” A disqualifying  disgusting response by @realDonaldTrump to the KKK. His coddling of repugnant bigotry is not in the character of America.  —   Mitt Romney (@MittRomney) February 29, 2016,  Caddell reminded Breitbart News Daily listeners of Romney’s own past with a gaffe that fatally crippled his 2012 campaign. “After what Romney said about the 47 percent in this country,” Caddell mused, “he’s going to accuse Donald Trump of being disqualified?” Romney’s infamous gaffe originated from a leaked video showing the 2012 GOP nominee speaking to a private gather of his campaign donors, where he said, in part: “There are 47 percent of the people who will vote for the President no matter what. Alright, there are 47 percent who are with him, who are dependent on government, who believe that they are victims, who believe government has the responsibility to care for them, who believe they are entitled to healthcare, to food, to housing. ” Commenting on Trump’s interview with Tapper, Caddell said, “I look at that tape over again, and I see it and I go: There’s a tired guy and he says he has a bad earpiece and he’s doing six interviews back to back  —   which is why you shouldn’t do the Sunday shows because none of the people watching them are going to be for you, and you’re just going to be prosecuted on most of them. ” Caddell explained that the GOP establishment is on the attack now because they are finally awake to the threat of the populist movement taking hold of the GOP primary race. Listen to Caddell’s full interview below: Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot Channel 125 weekdays from 6:00AM to 9:00AM EST. Follow Michelle Moons on Twitter @MichelleDiana