Admins of the lighthearted political page “Liberty Memes” have been suspended from Facebook and had images mocking Hillary Clinton deleted from their page. [The Facebook page, boasting over 100K likes, has had multiple images removed as they apparently don’t “follow the Facebook Community Standards”. One of the most recent images removed was one that poked fun at Hillary Clinton and the recent recommendation by the FBI not to press charges following Clinton’s email scandal.   The image received approximately 10K likes, 50K shares and 4 million views before it was promptly removed from the page for violating community standards. The image in question can be seen below, When Breitbart reached out to the pages admin to discuss the removal of this image. They provided us with the following statement: “Our page has two admins, and both of our accounts are currently on suspensions of varied duration. This isn’t the first time that they have taken down our innocuous posts claiming that they violate community standards. I’m currently on my second 30 day ban from my Facebook account”.  The administrator further speculated that images seem to be removed from Facebook once they reach approximately 10 million views within a week.  Although many images have been removed from the page, it does seem that images relating to Hillary Clinton are removed quite often. For example, the one below that actually seems to insult both the Democractic presidential candidate and the Republican candidate Donald Trump, was also removed from the page.  This is far from the first time Facebook seems to have singled out pages and users based on their political leanings, Breitbart has reported extensively on Facebook’s war on free speech, their censorship of conservatives and their anti Trump bias. Liberty Memes is just the latest in a growing list of questionable suspensions of conservative and   social media accounts.  Lucas Nolan is a Journalism and Media student at Dublin Business School and a regular contributor to Breitbart Tech. He can be contacted via Twitter here: @LucasNolan_