Republican nominee Donald Trump dismissed the narrative at the Democratic National Convention (DNC) that America is on track, saying Democrats are living in a “fantasy world. ”[“They’re not talking about the real world,” Trump stated Wednesday night during his campaign rally in Davenport, Iowa. Trump was referencing President Obama’s speech referencing the billionaire and said the Democrats aren’t discussing or acknowledging radical Islamic terrorism, open borders, crime, or real wages.  Trump, in Iowa, says Dems are being overly optimistic about the state of USA. ”I watched last night, and it was like all beautiful roses.”  —   Ashley Killough (@KilloughCNN) July 28, 2016,  “They don’t talk about all of the problems we have in our country with education,” he added. “They’re not talking about Obamacare  …    Obamacare is a catastrophe. ” “You’re going to have increases,” Trump warned about the cost of Obamacare. “It’s   numbers. ” “We want to have those numbers revealed prior to the election on November 8,” he declared, alleging the Obama administration wants the numbers to come out in December. Trump also jabbed Obama over the debt doubling under his watch, adding that’s another issue not being discussed at the DNC. “We can’t go for another four years of Obama,” Trump stated, meaning Hillary Clinton. Trump’s campaign additionally released a press release Thursday evening, bashing the Democrats for their “fantasy world. ” The press release read: At Hillary Clinton’s convention this week, Democrats have been speaking about a world that doesn’t exist. A world where America has full employment, where there’s no such thing as radical Islamic terrorism, where the border is totally secured, and where thousands of innocent Americans have not suffered from rising crime in cities like Baltimore and Chicago. In the Democrats’ fantasy world, there is no problem with Hillary Clinton maintaining an illegal, exposed server full of classified information that could have been hacked by any foreign enemy, and in which Hillary Clinton risked prison time to delete 33, 000 emails that were simply about yoga and wedding planning. In this world, there is no Hillary Clinton disaster in Syria, Libya and Egypt, ISIS doesn’t merit a mention, Iran isn’t on the path to nukes, convention stages don’t need American flags, and our great men and women of law enforcement, our police, do not need to be honored. I propose a different vision for America, one where we can break up Washington’s rigged system, and empower all Americans to achieve their dreams. In our vision, we will put America First. If we deliver this change, the future is limitless and we will Make America Great Again for everyone. During his campaign rally in Davenport, Iowa, Trump appealed directly to Hawkeye state voters by promising to keep Iowa the first in the nation caucus state during the primaries, to aide beef sales regarding trade deals, and to help evangelicals by removing the Johnson Amendment, which silences churches on political issues due to tax exempt status. ”I’m not in love with the caucus system, I have to tell you. No insult,” Trump says in Davenport. But promises he’ll keep Iowa 1st in nation,  —   Jennifer Jacobs (@JenniferJJacobs) July 28, 2016,  Trump to Iowa: ”If I’m president they’re gonna want your beef.”  —   Jim Acosta (@Acosta) July 28, 2016,  Trump appealed to Iowa farmers  —   there are  roughly 20, 000 beef farms in the state  —   when discussing trade agreements with other countries. According to the Iowa Beef Industry Council, “In 2014, Iowa’s cattle industry contributed in excess of 7. 4 billion dollars in business activity to Iowa’s economy. ” In addition to the farmers, Trump appealed to evangelicals by promising to remove the Johnson Amendment  —   created by Lyndon Johnson  —   which prevents churches from speaking out on political issues due to tax exempt status. “I figure that’s one way I’m getting to heaven,” Trump joked. The rally was packed, with no vacant seats inside the Adler Theatre, which holds 2, 400 people.