Democratic presidential candidate Senator Bernie Sanders ( ) left an interview with Flagstaff, AZ NBC affiliate 12 News on Thursday after an exchange over his wife’s spontaneous meeting with Maricopa County, AZ Sheriff Joe Arpaio (R) although Sanders claims the interview was over time.  Sanders was asked [relevant remarks begin around 2:20] “Your wife was criticized for meeting Sheriff Joe Arpaio at Tent City. It wasn’t scheduled. She didn’t plan it. But he showed up. My question is, would you  —  . ” Sanders then cut in, “Let me just tell you something. You know, what Joe Arpaio is doing is an outrage. My wife went to look at the   Tent City, which is something that should not exist. The fact that he crashed her meeting is, to me, very, very wrong, not something that he should have done. ” After continuing by talking about his campaign views, Sanders said, “Thank you very much. ” and left the interview as interviewer Brahm Resnick asked him if he would accept a VP slot. Resnick quipped that Sanders was the first candidate who walked away. Sanders responded that Resnick had gone over his allotted time, and that he didn’t walk away. Resnick said that he was a reporter and that’s what they do, to which Sanders rebutted that Resnick went over his allotted time. Resnick responded that he wouldn’t “squabble over this. ” In tweets that were flagged by The Hill, Mike Casca, Sanders’ rapid response director said Sanders ended the interview “after a reporter goes after his wife. ” candidate who never takes questions criticizes bernie for ending interview after a reporter goes after his wife. ok. https:  .   —   mike casca (@cascamike) March 18, 2016,  He later clarified, “this previous tweet is inaccurate. the interview was over time. i tweeted without full context, which is always a bad idea. ” correction: this previous tweet is inaccurate. the interview was over time. i tweeted without full context, which is always a bad idea.  —   mike casca (@cascamike) March 18, 2016,  (  The Hill) Follow Ian Hanchett on Twitter @IanHanchett