MARIETTA, Ga.  —   Jen Cox bit her tongue for years about her progressive views for fear of hurting her real estate business. “I felt very concerned about talking about my politics in any way, shape or form,” said Ms. Cox, who lives and works in a   suburban milieu north of Atlanta, where people don’t confess to being Democrats until after a couple of glasses of Pinot Grigio at a dinner party. That changed with the election of President Trump.   liberals were jolted. Some joined women’s marches in January, and many here have become active in   groups, galvanized by a special election this month to fill a vacant House seat that has long been in Republican hands. Ms. Cox   the group PaveItBlue to mobilize volunteers to elect the leading Democrat in the race, Jon Ossoff. Within three weeks, 1, 000 people joined. With the national media descending on Georgia’s Sixth Congressional District, and outside money pouring in, the contest is viewed as a major test of whether a wave of   activism since Mr. Trump’s inauguration will produce change at the ballot box. Ms. Cox’s group is one of more than a dozen popping out like dogwood blooms in these comfortable suburbs of brick homes, shopping malls and technology companies. They have names like the Johns   Progressives Network, Roswell Resistance Huddle and Liberal Moms of Roswell and Cobb. If a Democrat were to win the seat  —   once held by Newt Gingrich, and recently vacated by Tom Price, who joined Mr. Trump’s cabinet as secretary of health and human services  —   it would not be because of the $4 million that has come into the Ossoff campaign, much of it from national donors. Rather, it would be thanks to volunteer brigades roused by Mr. Trump’s election, who are knocking on doors, making phone calls and writing personalized post cards to turn out voters. Even though the district favors Republicans, special elections are   affairs a strong ground game by Democrats could upend the usual outcome. Mr. Ossoff, 30, a documentary filmmaker and   candidate, is hoping for a knockout punch in the open primary on April 18. All candidates in the race appear on the same ballot. If Mr. Ossoff, the polling leader, can win more than 50 percent, it will eliminate a runoff. If the race goes to a second round, scheduled June 20, a Republican would be favored because of the party’s historic advantage. Ms. Cox recalls insisting to Mr. Ossoff that he use lawn signs, even after campaign consultants had ruled them out, arguing that they have no effect. She got in Mr. Ossoff’s face  —   literally, she says  —   and told him lawn signs would show shy Democrats like her and her friends that they are not alone. “If you want volunteer action and people working for you up in these red districts, you need to help us help you,” she recalls telling Mr. Ossoff. Today, there are lots of Ossoff signs. Republicans acknowledged the surge of interest and energy powering Mr. Ossoff’s campaign. “Nancy Pelosi and liberal politicians are flooding into Georgia to try and stop our Republican majority that’s getting things done,” says the narrator of a TV ad running in the district from the National Republican Congressional Committee. “The stakes are too high to stay home. ” Republicans expect their followers to coalesce around one candidate after April 18. “We’ve held this seat for 37 years, and we’re planning on keeping it for another 37,” said Maddie Anderson, a spokeswoman for the Republican committee. “The vast majority of the district has no interest in being represented by a   candidate with virtually no experience. ” When Mr. Ossoff addressed the Johns   Progressives last week, in a subdivision called Medlock Bridge, he spoke of the young people involved in his campaign. “And there are a lot of moms,” a woman piped up from the back, “who are almost 50 who have never gone to anything like this in their whole life. ” “Well, that’s right,” Mr. Ossoff said. Afterward, supporters stayed behind, describing their surprise that so many liberals had come out of the woodwork. “It’s almost like being a gay person and realizing there are other gay people in the world,” Tobie Kranitz Walters, a business consultant, said. Many newly hatched activists described a similar pathway, from feeling abashed about sharing their political views before November to feeling emboldened to act out of anger at the Trump administration. Jessica Zeigler, 32, who works in the medical device industry, said she had cried for days when Hillary Clinton lost. Her son, Noah, came home from first grade distraught that someone had told a Muslim classmate “now you have to leave. ” “I’d always been surrounded by conservatives, and I was very uncomfortable sharing my views, so I didn’t,” Ms. Zeigler said. “I didn’t do any activism. I just voted. But I felt on Nov. 9 that wasn’t enough. I was mad at myself. ” On Saturday, Ms. Zeigler and some 25 members of two   groups gathered in the clubhouse of a community pool to write postcards to Democratic voters. Chloe Carlson, 15, wrote to one district resident, “As a high schooler my future means a lot to me, and it’s in your hands. ” She sat at a low table beside her mother, Kit Carlson, who trains bank employees. “When I found this group, it was crazy to find out I was not the only one,’’ Mrs. Carlson said. The groups are adept at using social media. They have private Facebook groups, Slack channels to coordinate volunteers and email blasts headlined “If you only do one thing today. ” Lesley Bauer, who founded PaveItBlue with Ms. Cox, was asked the other day by the Ossoff campaign if she could find two dozen volunteers to drive voters to polls. “I said, ‘Give me 10 minutes,’” Ms. Bauer recalled. “They said, ‘What?’ They sent me a spreadsheet. I posted it to our closed Facebook group with 1, 000 members. People filled it out immediately, and we sent it back. ” Professional campaign organizers, who are used to struggling to enlist volunteers, said they were witnessing something remarkable. “I’ve never seen anything like it,” said Amy Friedman, Mr. Ossoff’s field director, a veteran of Mrs. Clinton’s presidential campaign in Iowa and Maryland. “Nothing we’re doing would be possible without their existence,” Ms. Friedman said of the   groups. “It’s something Jon says every day. ” On Saturday, 50 people signed in at an Ossoff field office in Marietta to knock on doors of likely Democratic voters. “Why are we doing this?” a campaign staff member told the crowd, whose attire included “Resist” and “Dump Trump” ball caps. “This is the most effective way to turn out voters. If we can turn out enough, we can end this on April 18. ” Ms. Cox, walking a suburban street, knocked on the door of Kevin and Erin Jones. Their young daughter squealed when she heard the election date. “April 18 is my best friend’s birthday and we’re going to Sparkles!” she said. Both parents said they planned to vote for Mr. Ossoff. Ms. Jones, who works in strategy for a communications company, said she had voted for Mrs. Clinton, but had declined to put a sign in her yard. “There was just this stigma of being a Democratic voter in Georgia,” she said. There was also a reluctance to broadcast her support because of the strong hostility toward Mrs. Clinton. Mr. Trump’s election ended that. “I’m all for balance, I’m just not for crazy,” Ms. Jones said. Ms. Cox asked if she would like an Ossoff yard sign. Yes, said Ms. Jones. She pointed to a spot near the mailbox.