A man wielding an axe has left at least four people injured on a train after going on a rampage and has been shot by police. [The attacker, armed with what is being described as an axe, has left more than four people injured after attacking passengers of a train in Wurzburg Monday evening. The Federal Ministry of the Interior stated that police shot the suspect, and police now say he has been killed.  German media citing police: Suspect dead, 4 injured #Würzburg Train Attack. STOP SPREADING OUTDATED  FALSE INFO https:  .   —   RESQtweets (@RESQtweets) July 18, 2016,  Police in Wurzburg, which is located in southern Germany, have said that they are currently pursuing the suspect, who fled from the scene of the crime on foot. The operation to catch the attacker is being conducted in a suburb of Wurzburg called Heidingsfeld, where authorities have a police helicopter and multiple officers on the scene. #ULTIMAHORA 21 heridos en el ataque al tren de Wuerzburg Varios críticos https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   La Bruja del Tuiters (@isaranjuez) July 18, 2016,  Currently the train line that operates between   and Ochsenfurt has been closed until further notice as the manhunt proceeds. According to German media, the injuries sustained by some of the victims could be   but so far there are no confirmed reports of fatalities. UPDATE: A report states that the attacker was a    Afghan. Bayer. Innenminister:   Afghane ist Zugtäter in Bayern. @ZDFheute @heuteplus @heutejournal,  —   Elmar Theveßen (@ethevessen) July 18, 2016,  Bavaria’s Interior Ministry referred to the attacker as a “refugee. ” Bayerns Innenminister Herrmann im BR: Täter von #Würzburg ist 17 jähriger Flüchtling aus Afghanistan.  —   Sebastian Weiermann (@SWeiermann) July 18, 2016,  UPDATE 2: More reports say the attacker came to Germany as an unaccompanied migrant and yelled “Allahu Akbar” during the assault. Laut bay. Innenminister handelt es sich bei dem Täter in #Würzburg um   Afghanen  —   als unbegleiteter #Flüchtling nach D gekommen.  —   ZDF heuteplus (@heuteplus) July 18, 2016, 