During an address at the National Press Club on Monday, PayPal   and billionaire Trump supporter Peter Thiel reacted to LGBT magazine The Advocate and their article that claimed he couldn’t be a homosexual if he was a conservative, declaring, “If you don’t conform, then you don’t count as diverse. ”[“This judgement has been hard to accept for some of the country’s most fortunate, socially prominent people,” explained Thiel on the establishment’s reaction to millions of Trump supporters. “It’s certainly been hard to accept for Silicon Valley, where many people have learned to keep quiet if they dissent from the coastal bubble. ”  “Louder voices have sent a message that they do not intend to tolerate the views of one half of the country. This intolerance has taken on some bizarre forms,” he continued, referencing an article from LGBT magazine The Advocate that claimed Thiel could not be a real homosexual if he supported Donald Trump. “The Advocate, a magazine that once raised me as a gay innovator, even published an article saying as of now I am, and I quote, ‘not a gay man’ because I don’t agree with their politics,” he announced. “The lie behind the buzzword of diversity could not be made more clear. If you don’t conform, then you don’t count as diverse. No matter what your personal background. ” “Faced with such contempt, why do voters still support Donald Trump?” Thiel asked. “Even if they think the American situation is serious, why would they think that Trump, of all people, could make it any better? I think it’s because of the big things that Trump gets right. ” Moving on with examples, Thiel stated that “free trade has not worked out well for all of America. ” “All of our elites preach free trade. Highly educated people that make public policy preach that cheap imports make everyone a winner, according to economic theory. But in actual practice, we’ve lost tens of thousands of factories and millions of jobs to foreign trade,” he declared. “The heartland has been devastated. Maybe   really believe that nobody loses, or maybe they don’t worry about it too much because they think they’re among the winners. ” “The sheer size of the US trade deficit shows that something has gone badly wrong. The most developed country in the world should be exporting capital to the less developed countries,” Thiel claimed. “Instead the United States is importing more than 500 billion dollars every year. That money flows into financial assets and distorts our economy in favor of more financialization, and it gives the well connected people, who benefit, a reason to defend the status quo. ” “But not everyone benefits and the Trump voters know it,” he concluded. Charlie Nash is a reporter for Breitbart Tech. You can follow him on Twitter @MrNashington or like his page at Facebook.