GOP frontrunner Donald Trump has launched a new radio ad in Wisconsin ahead of the Badger State primary on April 5th, next Tuesday, even as many of the conservative radio voices in Wisconsin are criticizing him. [The ad states:  I just wanted to talk to the people of Wisconsin because there’s so much misinformation that’s being put out there about me. Let’s talk taxes. If I’m president your taxes are going to go way down and if you have a small business, big. Big tax break! Every other candidate wants to cut Medicaid and Social Security, not me. It’s not going to happen! I’m going to bring jobs back from Mexico, from China, from Japan. Obamacare is a total disaster. I’m going to repeal it and replace it with something so much better. At the same time, we’re going to make our military bigger, better and stronger than it’s ever been. Nobody is every going to mess with us again. And we’re going to get rid of ISIS fast. And we’re going to take care of our vets. I’ll never let you down. Please go vote on Tuesday. We’re going to make America Great Again! The radio ad comes on the same day the real estate mogul launched an attack ad on Instagram against Sen. Ted Cruz ( ). The Instagram ad begins with text that reads: “Nobody likes Ted. ” It then cuts to soundbites of several individuals expressing their disapproval of Cruz. “Ted Cruz was my roommate. I did not like him at all in college,” the voice of Craig Mazin says. The ad also includes a soundbite from Sen. Lindsey Graham ( ) who after suspending his campaign endorsed Gov. Jeb Bush, and now Cruz, saying, “I think he’s been just as wrong as Obama if not worse. ” The ad concludes with the text: “TRUSTED?” The attack comes as Cruz leads Trump by 10 points in the latest poll. Trump added two events to his schedule Saturday, and former Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin, who endorsed Trump, is in Wisconsin campaigning for him. Trump also rallied his supporters in a campaign email on Friday. “Wisconsin has been great to me over the past week and I have a full few days of events planned until the election on Tuesday,” Trump’s campaign email reads. I have enjoyed interacting with voters at town hall events and was so inspired by Melissa Young, the mother, and former Miss Wisconsin, battling terminal cancer. She was an inspiration to everyone, including me. I visited Janesville, Green Bay, Appleton, Milwaukee and will return this weekend to visit Racine, Wausau, Eau Claire, and West Allis. Trump also updated his supporters on his visit on Thursday to Washington, D. C. where he met with his foreign policy team, adding, “[We] had an   discussion about the recent tragedies, and solutions we can implement moving forward.  Rebuilding our military has been a key issue for me throughout my campaign and I take that, coupled with taking care of our great veterans very seriously. ” #MakeAmericaGreatAgain #Trump2016https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 1, 2016, 