One suspect in the assassinations and attacks on Dallas police officers on Thursday evening has been identified as    Micah Xavier Johnson. [Johnson died in the hours following the initial sniper attacks on police after negotiations broke down and a remote explosive device was detonated according to ABC News. Johnson told police before he died that he wanted to kill white people and “especially white officers. ”  Photos of Johnson have begun to emerge: NEW: Photo shows #Dallas shooting suspect ID’d as    Micah Xavier Johnson https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   CBS News (@CBSNews) July 8, 2016,  @CBSNews pic. twitter.   —   Simon Detroit (@SimonParker13) July 8, 2016,  Search warrants are being carried out at Johnson’s family home according to ABC News: Law enforcement sources tell @ABC deceased shooter suspect is Micah Xavier Johnson, 25. Search warrants being executed at family home.  —   ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) July 8, 2016,  Dallas Police Chief David Brown commended their hostage negotiator at a Friday news conference. Before Brown shared some of the suspect’s comments before those negotiations broke down, “The suspect said he was upset about Black Lives Matter. He said he was upset about the recent police shootings. The suspect said he was upset at white people. The suspect stated he wanted to kill white people especially white officers. ” A Facebook page that the Daily Beast identified as Johnson’s indicates he was a fan of Elijah Mohammed, the deceased leader of the Nation of Islam. Johnson also reportedly liked the New Black Panther Party, the African American Defense League, and the Black Riders Liberation Party. Johnson served in the U. S. Army Reserves until April 2015, according to ABC News citing defense officials. The Defense Department revealed that he was deployed to Afghanistan from November 2013 to July 2014. Reports indicate he had no known prior criminal history. Five police officers were killed in the Thursday evening attacks in Dallas, Texas. Another seven were injured. Todd Unger of local WFAA 8 News posted that the seven officers have been released from the hospital and are expected to recover. WFAA also reported that two civilians were shot in the course of the attack. Names of some of those officers that lost their lives in the assassinations began to surface last Friday morning. Iraq war veteran Officer Patrick Zamarripa: Officer Patrick Zamarripa survived tours in Iraq before being killed in Dallas https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Washington Post (@washingtonpost) July 8, 2016,     Officer Michael Krol: Michael Krol, 27, has been identified as one of the fallen DPD officers. #Dallas DETAILS:  https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   FOX 5 Atlanta (@FOX5Atlanta) July 8, 2016,  DART Officer Brent Thompson was recently married in the past two weeks Dallas Area Rapid Transit authority chief James Spiller said on TODAY: 2) DART Officer Brent Thompson was among the 5 officers killed in Dallas: https:  .  #7things pic. twitter.   —   ABC7 News (@abc7newsbayarea) July 8, 2016,  The Breitbart News livewire offers continuing coverage of the Dallas assassinations. The Dallas Police Department tweeted on Friday: Thank you to the members of our community for your show of support during this difficult time. #Dallas pic. twitter.   —   Dallas Police Depart (@DallasPD) July 8, 2016,  Follow Michelle Moons on Twitter @MichelleDiana 