It was a relatively minor mishap  —   several cars on a   New Jersey Transit train jumped the tracks on Monday morning at Pennsylvania Station in New York. But by the next day, it had cascaded into a transportation crisis, snarling travel up and down the East Coast, upending the lives of hundreds of thousands of people, and vividly illustrating the fragile state of infrastructure in the nation’s busiest transit corridor. The derailment happened at a notorious choke point inside North America’s busiest train station  —   a crowded and gloomy labyrinth that was never meant to handle a daily flow of 600, 000 passengers and 1, 300 trains. When something goes wrong on the tracks, it can cripple the three railroads that rely on the station. And this time the disruptions are likely to linger as officials warned on Tuesday that it could take several days to make repairs and restore full service after the derailment knocked out eight of the station’s 21 tracks. It was the second accident at Penn Station in the same area in less than two weeks. Aside from triggering commuting chaos, the incidents have prompted concerns about the safety of the aging tracks. The widespread upheaval also provided a harrowing glimpse into a future that all agree would be marred by constant delays unless more tracks are added at the station and a new tunnel is built under the Hudson River. “They’re operating at absolutely maximum capacity to serve the   ridership that wants to get into New York City,” said Martin E. Robins, a former deputy executive director at New Jersey Transit. “And you have an old infrastructure that was originally built more than 100 years ago. ” On Tuesday, there were major delays on New Jersey Transit and the Long Island Rail Road  —   two of the busiest commuter railroads in the country, which along with Amtrak share space at Penn Station. Amtrak had to run fewer trains between New York and Washington, one of the country’s major rail corridors. Riders fumed as they squeezed onto crowded trains and buses stalled in clogged traffic leading to New York. Hoboken Terminal in New Jersey became an extraordinary scene of gridlock as passengers leaving New Jersey Transit trains struggled to make their way to PATH trains, buses and ferries bound for Manhattan. There were so many people that the police barricaded stairs leading to PATH trains to control the crowds. Jenna Iandiorio’s commute took nearly three hours after her New Jersey Transit train was diverted to Hoboken. She described the scene: “Just a lot of very frustrated faces of people who deal with this far too often. ” “There is never a week where it’s smooth sailing to work,” Ms. Iandiorio added. “There are always issues. ” The disruptions unfolded just as local officials are expressing worries that plans for a new Hudson River tunnel could be upended because President Trump has proposed slashing federal financing for new transit projects. Govs. Chris Christie of New Jersey and Andrew M. Cuomo of New York have pledged to fight any cuts that could jeopardize the tunnel plan, known as the Gateway project. In 2010, Mr. Christie, a Republican who once led Mr. Trump’s transition team and had been in the running to be his pick for vice president, canceled a plan to build a new tunnel and a train station just east of Penn Station. It is not lost on many commuters that the new tunnel had been scheduled to open next year. The new station would have provided relief when problems arose at Penn Station, said Mr. Robins, who worked on that project. “It’s a continuing disappointment,” he said. “Every month, it comes back to haunt us in one way or another that the project was not built. ” Officials want to build a new tunnel as part of the $23 billion Gateway project and to eventually build new tracks to expand Penn Station. Before that happens, Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat, has promised to renovate the cramped Penn Station and to create a new train hall across the street on Eighth Avenue. John D. Porcari, the interim executive director of the Gateway Program Development Corporation, a nonprofit overseeing the new tunnel, told reporters on Tuesday that the project would improve reliability at Penn Station and reduce the kinds of inconveniences commuters are enduring this week. “This is a project of national significance, not just local significance,” he said, “and it simply cannot move forward without a federal commitment. ” Mr. Trump has proposed a $1 trillion infrastructure plan that will be unveiled later this year  —   an initiative he promoted on Tuesday during meetings with business leaders and the construction industry. It is unclear whether the Gateway project might be included or whether the president plans to prioritize investments in public transit. The derailment on Monday happened about 9 a. m. as a New Jersey Transit train pulled into Track 9 at Penn Station. A derailment on March 24 took place when an Amtrak train left Track 6. Scot Naparstek, Amtrak’s chief operating officer, said three cars in the middle of a New Jersey Transit train derailed on Monday, and workers had to place them back on the rails on Tuesday morning so they could remove the train. The accident damaged switch equipment on the tracks, leaving eight tracks unavailable for regular service. Mr. Naparstek said he could not give a time frame for when the tracks would be reopened. “We apologize for any inconvenience we caused anyone,” he said. Amtrak owns Penn Station. Officials at New Jersey Transit said the delays, cancellations and crowds were likely to continue through Thursday’s commute. The Federal Railroad Administration is investigating both accidents and has not identified the causes, said Marc Willis, a spokesman for the agency. Federal officials were talking to Amtrak and New Jersey Transit about how to ensure safety and reduce the likelihood of future disruptions, he said. “F. R. A. is concerned that two derailments in the last two weeks at New York’s Penn Station have caused minor passenger injuries and severe service disruptions on the Northeast Corridor,” Mr. Willis said in a statement. In June, federal officials began a safety investigation of New Jersey Transit. Then in September, a train crashed into Hoboken Terminal, killing a woman and injuring more than 100 people. The station is still being repaired, adding to the problems on Tuesday by making it more difficult for commuters to get through the building. A report by The New York Times last year found that the railroad was in crisis as it grappled with rising delays, a leadership vacuum and a lack of investment under Mr. Christie’s administration. State lawmakers are still investigating the continuing problems at New Jersey Transit. Matthew Kraft, 30, a financial analyst who works in Manhattan, said he went to Hoboken Terminal on Tuesday morning to avoid Penn Station and found it overrun with commuters. “I had never seen that before, where the crowd is literally pouring out of the station,” he said. Mr. Kraft said Tuesday’s   commute was probably one of roughly a dozen times in the last year where he has had a delay of more than an hour. “Every single time it happens, the wound doesn’t heal,” he said. “It’s just a building of frustration, like, ‘Please someone, anyone, please do something to make this work. ’” On Tuesday, Lara K. Mahal, a chemistry professor at New York University, said that her morning commute from South Orange, N. J. took two hours and that she was almost late for class. She was delayed again heading home in the afternoon. “Is every train in and out of this city broken today?” Ms. Mahal said as she rode a diverted PATH train in Manhattan in an effort to reach Hoboken. Most of all, Ms. Mahal said she had concerns about safety, noting the recent accidents at Hoboken Terminal and Penn Station. “That doesn’t exactly give you a safe feeling getting on the train,” she said.