Two Texas police officers helped a woman deliver a baby this past weekend. Their post on Facebook has gone viral. [Texas Department of Public Safety (DPS) trooper Dylan Duke and Grimes County Sheriff’s Deputy Steven Siracusa helped deliver the baby boy in Navasota, Texas. Officers Duke and Siracusa were at a traffic stop when they got the call that an ambulance was being sent to a gas station because a woman was in labor there.  Trooper Duke went directly to the gas station and helped the woman and her husband. The trooper called Saint Joseph’s Hospital and staff told him how to prepare the woman to deliver the baby. Deputy Siracusa arrived on the scene a bit later and he helped Officer Duke deliver the child. A baby boy, Oscar Jr. was born and he was safely transported to Saint Joseph’s Hospital. The Texas Department of Public Safety posted about the event on its Facebook page and as of the time of publication, there have been 2. 6K Facebook responses, 431 Facebook shares, and 86 comments.  One of the comments said, “So proud of you Trooper Dylan Duke and Deputy Siracusal[.] Glad you guys were close and could help this family! A big ‘high five’ to you both!” Chaz Greene commented, “Thank you Trooper Duke and Deputy Siracusa! Another fine example of how our Peace Officers make our communities better places in which to make a living and a life!” “Imagine the cool birth story little Oscar will one day tell his friends   …     ‘I’m so special that it took 2 Texas State Troopers to deliver me!’ Awesome job Troopers. You brought a new life and protected a new Mom all at the same time! ,” said Amanda Fugett. Eric Perez posted, “I live in this small town and all cops are not bad like people thank that are[. ]” Pauline Cortez noted, “In the wake of devastation in our great state it is heartwarming to hear stories likes this. Good job guys keep caring and serving and since you don’t hear it enough thank you! !” Lana Shadwick is a contributing writer and legal analyst for Breitbart Texas. She has served as a prosecutor and associate judge in Texas. Follow her on Twitter @LanaShadwick2.