The Metropolitan Transportation Authority had good news on Monday for subway riders worried about the shutdown of the L train: The closing will be shorter than expected. The authority’s board voted to approve a $477 million contract to close the L train tunnel between Brooklyn and Manhattan for 15 months to repair damage caused by Hurricane Sandy  —   instead of 18 months as originally planned. The work is set to begin in April 2019. After several board members raised concerns about a company that was awarded the contract, Judlau Contracting, officials assured the board that the company was the best choice for the project and would finish the work on time. “I expect this project to be completed in 15 months,” said Lawrence S. Schwartz, an authority board member. “I want to make sure that Judlau and everybody else who is going to be involved on this project understands that it will not be tolerated or accepted to be 15 months and one day. ” Brooklyn residents who rely on the L line have grown increasingly anxious over how they will commute during the closing. Officials at the authority have discussed several alternatives using nearby subway lines and buses, but they have not outlined a specific plan yet. About 250, 000 people take the line under the East River each day. The L train tunnel, officially known as the Canarsie Tube, was one of several subway tunnels inundated by floodwaters during the hurricane in 2012. Workers must demolish and replace thousands of feet of crumbling walls, tracks and cables. The agency awarded the contract to two companies, Judlau Contracting and TC Electric. Judlau Contracting had been criticized for delays on the Second Avenue subway and in rebuilding the Cortlandt Street subway station, which was damaged on Sept. 11. One authority board member, Charles G. Moerdler, said the company had done a “dreadful job” on the Second Avenue subway. “I am reluctant in the extreme to vote to give Judlau yet another chance,” Mr. Moerdler said at a board committee meeting last month. Stephen Plochochi, an official at the authority who oversees subway and bus procurements, said officials had looked at the company’s “full body of work,” including the rehabilitation of the Montague Tube, which was also damaged during the hurricane. If it takes longer than 15 months to fix the Canarsie Tube, the company will be fined $410, 000 per day, Mr. Plochochi said. Cesar Pereira, a vice president at Judlau Contracting, said in a statement that the company had a “long and successful history” of working with the authority. “With the help of its employees and subcontractors and the M. T. A. ’s very capable staff and designers, Judlau and TC will once again deliver a successful project to the M. T. A. and the riding public,” Mr. Pereira said. Transit advocates have urged the authority to provide robust bus service during the closing, including dedicated bus lanes on the Williamsburg Bridge, 14th Street in Manhattan and Grand Street in Brooklyn. A proposal for a “PeopleWay” on 14th Street would prioritize buses, bike lanes and wider sidewalks over cars. If people use Uber and other car services or private shuttles during the L train shutdown, street congestion will become even worse, said Paul Steely White, the executive director of Transportation Alternatives, an advocacy group for pedestrians and cyclists that is campaigning for the PeopleWay. The authority should announce its plans for alternative service by this summer so that commuters can plan their lives, he said. “It’s going to completely gum up the streets unless some aggressive bus prioritization measures are instituted,” Mr. White said. “It will lead to catastrophic traffic congestion. ”