Democratic pollster Pat Caddell spoke with Breitbart News Daily SiriusXM host Matt Boyle about media bias and other topics on Friday, saying, “There’s no doubt that the mainstream media, as predicted, would go all out to make that debate, in retrospect, a Hillary Clinton big win because that fits with what they want to do. And they are trying to drive that bus. ”[“We see this with the Newsweek piece and all of these things,” continued Caddell. “There will be an   effort, beyond what anyone could imagine by the establishment, to save itself and preserve its power. None of us can imagine what we’re going to see the next few weeks. ”  Added Caddell, “This is a group that’s desperate because the threat is to their power and prestige and position. What have we done wrong that’s caused all of this to happen? Nothing like that,” said Caddell, implying the establishment would not stop to ponder their role in creating the movement currently behind GOP nominee Donald Trump. “This is instinctively a fight to preserve what they have, and the hell with the American people. That’s basically where they come from,” concluded Caddell. “Ohio, of course, is a bellwether,” said Caddell, in response to a New York Times item Friday now saying it is not. “Ohio is important because it is kind of a microcosm of the country. It is a bellwether, except now Trump’s ahead, so it can’t be a bellwether. ” Caddell also said The New York Times is “an embarrassment” but has yet to reach the depths it will reach before the election is over. The Times reports: After decades as one of America’s most reliable political bellwethers, an inevitable presidential battleground that closely mirrored the mood and makeup of the country, Ohio is suddenly fading in importance this year. Hillary Clinton has not been to the state since Labor Day, and her aides said Thursday that she would not be back until next week, after a   absence, effectively acknowledging how difficult they think it will be to defeat Donald J. Trump here. Ohio has not fallen into step with the demographic changes transforming the United States, growing older, whiter and less educated than the nation at large. Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00 a. m. to 9:00 a. m. EST. LISTEN: 