California lawmakers launched a full frontal assault on the state’s few remaining Second Amendment freedoms by passing more gun restrictions and magazine bans out of committee on Tuesday. [The Firearms Policy Coalition (FPC) described the April 19 assault as “GunMeggedon,” and warns that gun control in California is poised to pass a point of no return.  Ten gun control bills were under consideration, eight of which survived their first vote and now move “to their respective Appropriations Committee. ” FPC reports what the “GunMeggedon” bills do: AB 2510 eliminates uniformity for CCW permits, putting permit holders and law enforcement at greater risk. SB 880 immediately bans and forces the registration of millions of   weapons in common use. SB 894 mandates lost and stolen reporting within five days and penalizes individuals for reports that are turned in even a day late. SB 1006 allows the University of California to conduct biased gun violence research. SB 1037 extends the statute of limitations on certain   firearms related crimes, mostly having to do with paperwork. SB 1235 is a measure that we believe will eventually include mandatory ammo tracking and purchase permits. SB 1407 is De Leon’s version of the “Ghost Gun” ban. SB 1446 bans all “standard” capacity magazines that hold more than 10 rounds. KCRA quotes FPC’s Craig DeLuz explaining that none of the above measures will check criminal behavior, but rather will make it even more difficult for   citizens to keep and bear guns for  . “Not one of the laws that are being pushed today makes Californians safer,” DeLuz said. “All they do is put restrictions  —   in many cases very unreasonable restrictions  —   on   citizens. ” The accuracy of DeLuz’s assessment is clear from proposals like SB 1446, which prohibits   citizens from owning magazines larger than “10 rounds. ” In 2014, disturbed student Elliot Rodger used only   magazines to carry out his mass shooting near the University of California at Santa Barbara. The failure of universal background checks and firearm registration in California  —   driven home most recently by the December 2, 2015 San Bernardino terrorist attack, in which the guns used had been purchased legally  —   also highlights the weakness of SB 1235, a bill that would create a similar background check and registration system for ammunition. AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.