Following the news today that the FBI will reopen the case into Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server, the Trump campaign reacted with elation to the news as stock markets crashed. [In an official campaign statement, Donald Trump said that Hillary Clinton was involved in “corruption is on a scale we have never seen before,” praising the FBI for “having the courage to right the horrible mistake that they made. ”  I need to open with a very critical breaking news announcement. The FBI has just sent a letter to Congress informing them that they have discovered new emails pertaining to former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s investigation, and they are reopening the case into her criminal and illegal conduct that threatens the security of the United States of America. Hillary Clinton’s corruption is on a scale we have never seen before. We must not let her take her criminal scheme into the Oval Office. I have great respect for the fact that the FBI and the DOJ are now willing to have the courage to right the horrible mistake that they made. This was a grave miscarriage of justice that the American people fully understand. It is everybody’s hope that it is about to be corrected.  —   Donald J. Trump, Trump later informed a crowd in New Hampshire of the development, joking that “the rest of my speech was going to be so boring. ” The New Hampshire crowd immediately exploded into cries, chanting the popular phrase “lock her up!” MANCHESTER  —   ”Lock her up!” they chanted as news broke that the FBI reopened investigation. 11 days  …     pic. twitter.   —   Kevin Cirilli (@kevcirilli) October 28, 2016,  Donald Trump later reiterated that the news was a reminder that “We must not let #CrookedHillary take her CRIMINAL SCHEME into the Oval Office. ” We must not let #CrookedHillary take her CRIMINAL SCHEME into the Oval Office. #DrainTheSwamp pic. twitter.   —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 28, 2016,  Meanwhile, whilst holding a rally in Pennsylvania, Donald Trump’s running mate Mike Pence called on the FBI to “immediately release all the email pertinent to their reopened investigation the American people have the right to know. ” Gov. @mike_pence ”we call on the FBI to immediately release all the email pertinent to their reopened investigation” of Hillary Clinton pic. twitter.   —   Michelle Moons (@MichelleDiana) October 28, 2016,  Trump’s campaign manager, Kellyanne Conway, said on Twitter that “a great day in our campaign just got even better”: A great day in our campaign just got even better.  FBI reviewing new emails in Clinton probe @CNNPolitics https:  .   —   Kellyanne Conway (@KellyannePolls) October 28, 2016,  You can follow Ben Kew on Facebook, on Twitter at @ben_kew, or email him at bkew@breitbart. com 