NEW YORK CITY, New York  —   Donald J. Trump, the billionaire real estate magnate and presumptive 2016 GOP presidential nominee, told Breitbart News in an exclusive interview that his likely Democratic opponent, former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, wants to increase illegal immigration into America. [Trump, who made the comments in an exclusive interview with Breitbart News in his office on the 26th floor of Trump Tower here in Midtown, Manhattan, said Clinton’s plan would be a “disaster” for the United States. Trump said:  I think it’s a disaster for our country. She wants to allow people in, she wants to have a very weak border, she wants illegal immigrants to flow into the country with all of the problems —  to flow into the country —  and she wants to allow the Syrians to come in in numbers far greater than even Obama. We have no idea who these people are. They’re not documented. Nobody knows anything about them. I think it’s catastrophic for the country if that’s allowed to happen. Trump told Breitbart News that the difference between his plan and Clinton’s plan is that he will actually secure America whereas Clinton will leave the border wide open. “We’re going to have very strong borders, and people can come into the country, but they have to come in legally. They have to come in legally. And the Syrians, we won’t take them, because we don’t know who they are and where they’re from. They could be ISIS. So we won’t take them. ” And when asked if, now that he is the GOP nominee, he plans to stick with his plans for a wall on the border paid for by Mexico —  Clinton opposes the construction of a   wall —  Trump said he does. “Absolutely, we’re going to have a wall —  and Mexico is going to pay for the wall,” Trump said. Clinton, meanwhile, on her own website, does not even hide the fact that she supports a   amnesty for all the illegal aliens inside America —  and that she wants to expand President Barack Obama’s executive amnesty programs. Clinton’s website reads: As a senator, Hillary was a strong supporter of comprehensive immigration reform, cosponsoring Senator Ted Kennedy’s 2004 bill and supporting the Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act in 2006 and 2007. She   the DREAM Act in the Senate in 2003, 2005, and 2007 to give undocumented students who grew up in the U. S. a chance to contribute to our nation’s growth. As president, Hillary will fight for comprehensive immigration reform that provides a full and equal path to citizenship, treats every person with dignity, upholds the rule of law, protects our borders and national security, and brings millions of hardworking people into the formal economy. That all appears on her immigration policy page under the subsection that says she will “fight for comprehensive immigration reform legislation with a path to full and equal citizenship” as president. The website also says that if she is elected president Clinton will “defend” the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) executive amnesty for illegal alien minors and the Deferred Action for Parental Accountability (DAPA) executive amnesty for adult illegal aliens. “President Obama’s executive actions that provide relief from deportation for DREAMers and parents of Americans and lawful residents would protect an estimated five million people,” Clinton’s campaign website says. “Hillary will defend DACA and DAPA against partisan attacks and politically motivated lawsuits that would put DREAMers and others at risk of deportation. ” She also says she would aim to expand those executive amnesty programs. “If Congress continues its refusal to act on comprehensive immigration reform, Hillary will put in place a simple, straightforward, accessible system for parents of DREAMers and others with a history of service and contribution to their communities to be able to make their case and be eligible for deferred action as well,” Clinton’s website reads in the next section on immigration, entitled: “Do everything possible under the law to go further to protect families. ” Clinton’s campaign did not respond to a Breitbart News request for comment in response to Trump’s missives on immigration. More from Trump’s latest exclusive interview with Breitbart News is forthcoming.