Administrators at the University of Pennsylvania reportedly provided students upset over the results of Tuesday’s presidential election with emotional support puppies, coloring books, and chocolate. [The news was relayed by Penn student Daniel Tancredi, who told The College Fix that students at the Ivy League university were being coddled by administrators this week in response to Donald Trump’s victory in Tuesday’s presidential election.  “There were actual cats and a puppy there,” Tancredi told The College Fix. “There were sheets of paper available with black and white printed designs on them for students to color in. Essentially they looked like pages from a coloring book that were printed from a computer. They all had positive   messages on them. Students colored them in with colored pencils. ” As a result of being distraught, Tancredi claims that students avoided talking about the election, as many of them were too shaken by the outcome. “For the most part, students just hung out and ate snacks and made small talk,” Tancredi said. “Of course, that was in addition to coloring and playing with the animals. The election was mentioned a few times, though mostly in very timid and fearful tones. The event as a whole seemed to be an escape from the reality of the election results. ” Tancredi claims that many professors at the University of Pennsylvania turned Wednesday’s class sessions into “safe spaces,” where students were invited to express their concerns about America’s future. “Some professors turned Wednesday’s classes into ‘safe spaces’ in which students could freely express their concerns for their futures. On a campus that voted   in favor of Hillary Clinton, these open forums were naturally dominated by   voices. ” “Obviously the diversity at Penn is not diversity of opinion since the opinion of almost half the country is almost unaccounted for on campus,” Tancredi claimed. “I’m also worried for my fellow students. If the result of an election takes this much of a toll on their   what is going to happen when they directly face difficulties in the real world?” Tom Ciccotta is a libertarian who writes about Free Speech and Intellectual Diversity for Breitbart. You can follow him on Twitter @tciccotta or email him at tciccotta@breitbart. com