More than 130 artists and critics have signed a petition calling for cultural institutions to close on Friday, Jan. 20, the day of   Donald J. Trump’s inauguration. Cindy Sherman, Richard Serra, Louise Lawler, Joan Jonas and Julie Mehretu were among the art stars signing the invitation for a “J20 Art Strike,” which urges museums, galleries, concert halls, art schools and nonprofit institutions to close to protest “the normalization of Trumpism,” according to a statement. “It is not a strike against art, theater or any other cultural form. It is an invitation to motivate these activities anew, to reimagine these spaces as places where resistant forms of thinking, seeing, feeling and acting can be produced. ” Ms. Jonas, who represented the United States at the 2015 Venice Biennale, said in an interview that she hoped people would attend protests on Jan. 20. “I’m interested in action and protest and people expressing their feelings about this situation that we’re in,” she said. “I’m concerned about minorities, immigrants, corruption and security. ” Cultural institutions around the country are still mulling their moves, with some, including the Museum of Modern Art, MoMA PS1 and the Los Angeles County Museum of Art (Lacma) pledging to maintain their regular hours that day. “Our entire program and mission, every day, is an expression of inclusion and appreciation of every culture,” Miranda Carroll, Lacma’s director of communications, wrote in an email. The Whitney Museum will also remain open, but will implement     admission for the day, hoping to encourage discussion. “The museum will offer programming that reflects our commitment to open dialogue, civic engagement and the diversity of American art and culture,” Danielle Bias, its senior communications manager, said in a statement. Melissa Parsoff, director of communications for the nonprofit Dia Art Foundation, said, “We plan to be open but we are continuing to discuss this and to see how the situation unfolds in the coming days. ” She added, “We are giving our staff the opportunity to take the time off if they want to attend the protest. ” Many universities will be closed anyway on Jan. 20  —   it’s winter break. “If your school is open and relevant, you should go to school,” said Tom Eccles, the executive director of Bard College’s Center for Curatorial Studies. “Inauguration Day is symbolic but let’s not just make it a day of symbolism. What we have to worry about is the next four years. At a certain moment in history, one has to retrench and consider the forms of resistance one is promoting. The struggle is long, and I would say it is not our role to close. It is our role to watch, to listen, to encourage. ”