Selma Blair was removed from a Los   Delta Airlines flight on a stretcher Monday after passengers reported the actress was screaming incoherently during a flight. [One passenger reportedly saw the    actress mixing alcohol and pills just moments before she began screaming and yelling, according to TMZ. Blair was reportedly on her way back from vacation in Cancun, Mexico.  “He burns my private parts. He won’t let me eat or drink,” the actress was reported to have said on the plane. “He beats me. He’s going to kill me. ” The People v. O. J. Simpson star was “met by paramedics at LAX as soon as her plane arrived,” one source told the New York Post. “It looks like she had taken a combination of prescription medication with alcohol. We don’t know what sort of prescription medications. ” The pilot quickly alerted airport authorities, who were waiting for the plane to land so they could strap Blair into a stretcher and rush her to the nearest hospital. Blair was traveling with her   Jason Bleick and his    son. The three of them had spent Father’s Day in Cancun. According to social media posts, one appearing mere moments before her rant, Blair looked to be entirely normal. TMZ posted the actress enjoying a peaceful day at the beach. Selma Blair  —   The Calm Before the Flight (PHOTOS) https:  .   —   TMZ (@TMZ) June 21, 2016,  And Bleick snapped and posted a selfie of he and little Arthur Saint, just before the plane was set to take off.  On our way back from Fathers Day in Mexico. #arthursaintbleick, A photo posted by Jason Bleick (@jasonbleick) on Jun 20, 2016 at 10:17am PDT,  Finally, a   Blair posted a picture of her and Saint to Instagram, with the caption: “We’re leaving on a jet plane. Dad is already asleep. Not for long. Bwahahahha . #fathersdayweekend”  We’re leaving on a jet plane. Dad is already asleep. Not for long. Bwahahahha . #fathersdayweekend, A photo posted by Selma Blair (@therealselmablair) on Jun 16, 2016 at 1:46pm PDT,  No word yet on Blair’s condition.   Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson