Chris Gaubatz, vice president of UnderstandingTheThreat. com, joined Breitbart News Daily with SiriusXM host Alex Marlow on Monday to talk about the time he spent undercover at the Council on   Relations (CAIR). The results of that investigation are chronicled in the book Muslim Mafia: Inside the Secret Underworld That’s Conspiring to Islamize America. [Gaubatz said one surprising discovery he made about CAIR is that “we all hear CAIR is a   firm, and while I was in  ’s Virginia office, before I worked in D. C.’s national office, I was the intern there, and their lawyer  —   Morris Days at the time  —   was taking money from Muslims that were working on their immigration case. ”  “Now, if CAIR was a   firm, they actually would have vetted their lawyer, but they’re not. They’re Hamas,” Gaubatz said. “So this lawyer was taking money from Muslims, working on their immigration cases, except that he wasn’t a lawyer. He never passed the state bar exam. He wasn’t licensed to practice law anywhere in the country. In fact, he had a rap sheet out of Philadelphia. ” “So CAIR shut down the emails, they shut down their bank accounts, and they closed the office down. Their only problem was   …     they asked their intern to shred documents related to the case  —   and that was me,” he continued. “So we ended up exposing that in Muslim Mafia, but CAIR never reported that to the police. CAIR never reported that to the state bar association. They tried to cover it up, and it backfired on them. We actually got several of the Muslims that were defrauded by CAIR to sue CAIR. That should be going to trial soon. ” “They also worked with Osama bin Laden,” he added. “There was a document we found where, one of their board meeting notes, they were discussing working with bin Laden. That shouldn’t surprise anybody, since as I’ve testified in front of the U. S. Senate and at the Oklahoma State Capitol last week, that the goals of the Muslim Brotherhood  —   or Hamas, if it’s CAIR  —   are no different than those of   or the Islamic State, which is to establish an Islamic state under sharia. ” Gaubatz said that from a national security perspective, the 2016 election was a “  choice” because “if Hillary Clinton wins, that is exactly what the global Islamic movement would want. That is exactly what the Muslim Brotherhood would want. ” “She will work with them. It’ll be a continuation of the Obama policies of working with the Muslim Brotherhood and working with the global Islamic movement,” he warned.  “Mr. Trump scares them to death. He does that because they know that he is the type of person that is willing to go out and dismantle the jihadi network in America. Muslim Brotherhood groups like CAIR, like the Islamic Society of North America, like the Muslim Students’ Association, are shaking in their boots right now because if he wins, there’s a very real possibility that network is dismantled within the first year,” he predicted. “Look, the evidence is already there. There’s enough evidence just from the Holy Land Foundation trial to prosecute CAIR, ISNA, the International Institute of Islamic Thought (IIIT). There is enough evidence to indict and prosecute all of those groups,” Gaubatz declared. “It’s never been the lack of evidence. It’s been the lack of will. ” Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00 a. m. to 9:00 a. m. Eastern. LISTEN: 