The chairman of the Travis County Republican Party is leading the protest against GOP nominee Donald Trump. The county chairman dressed up in a jester’s hat and carried a sign calling Trump a “child rapist. ”[Travis County GOP Chairman Robert Morrow and avowed #NeverTrump affiliate took over the   political committee during the GOP primary in March. The colorful and   chairman has been denounced by GOP officials across the state and mocked by national media figures. On Tuesday, he took to the streets of Austin to join with   protesters outside of a scheduled appearance by the GOP nominee.  He has been well known for his obscene tweets and had promised to bring the protest to Trump’s appearance in Austin. Several people have tweeted photos of the local party leader wearing his white shorts, jester hat and carrying the   sign calling the candidate a child rapist. Yep, this is the elected Travis County GOP Chair, @RobMorroLiberty  —   just as he promised #trumpinaustin pic. twitter.   —   Evan Smith (@evanasmith) August 23, 2016,  Fantastic. #ATX #TrumpInAustin @acllive pic. twitter.   —   Aurora Lujan (@its_aurora) August 23, 2016,  One woman responded to Morrow’s sign yelling “Bill likes little girls,” Elena Mejia Lutz tweeted. Morrow took advantage of the rally to promote his own “presidential candidacy. ” He said if he is elected he will have a bikini contest on the South Lawn of the White House. Robert Morrow, head of Travis County GOP, says he’s running for president, promises wet   contests pic. twitter.   —   Brittney Martin (@BeeDotMartin) August 24, 2016,  Other protesters have begun to gather outside the theater where Donald Trump will be taping a town hall meeting with Fox News’ Sean Hannity. The town hall meeting will be aired on Tuesday and Wednesday nights on the Sean Hannity Show. Last few signs hanging around @acllive #trumpinATX #trumpinaustin pic. twitter.   —   Elena Mejia Lutz (@elenamejialutz) August 23, 2016,  One group began chanting “Love Trumps Hate”   protesters: “Love Trumps Hate!” #TrumpInAustin pic. twitter.   —   Elena Mejia Lutz (@elenamejialutz) August 23, 2016,  Hillary supporters also appeared with   signs. First   protesters on the scene yelling “we build bridges, we don’t build walls” #trumpinaustin pic. twitter.   —   Elena Mejia Lutz (@elenamejialutz) August 23, 2016, Earlier in the day, Texas State Senator Kirk Watson ( ) appeared with a group of Texas Democrat leaders to condemn Trump’s Texas tour. Texas Democrats unite to denounce Donald Trump’s visit to Austin today led by Sen Watson. #texasdems #trumpinaustin pic. twitter.   —   Ralph Barrera (@RalphBarrera) August 23, 2016,  So far the number of protesters is light, but that is expected to change. Maggie Howell tweeted she had only seen 30 protesters at about 3:30 p. m. Central Time. We counted maybe 30 protestors #TrumpInAustin pic. twitter.   —   Maggie (@margaretjhowell) August 23, 2016,  More chants of Dump Trump from protesters. Protesters chanting as crowd files into Moody Theater @KXAN_News #trump #TrumpinATX pic. twitter.   —   Leslie Rangel (@LeslieRangelTV) August 23, 2016,  Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas. He is a founding member of the Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX.