One of the emails contained in the Wikileaks’ Podesta email release shows that Hillary Clinton had gun control supporters planted in a town hall audience in Manchester, New Hampshire. [The town hall occurred on October 5, 2015 just four days after a man opened fire on Umpqua Community College campus in Oregon.  In the email thread, dated October 4, 2015, a “speech draft” was passed around “on behalf of Megan Rooney. ” The email contained “talking points” for Clinton to use to discuss guns in Manchester. The first part of the email reminded other campaign staffers that the town hall had no specific focus, although gun control would be highlighted: Here are short TPs about guns for the NH community college town hall &gt&gt&gt tomorrow. This is not a town hall exclusively about gun violence  —   it’s just a &gt&gt&gt regular town hall. The email then turned, reminding everyone that there would be gun control plants at the town hall that those plants would be from various gun control groups: But the person who will introduce [Clinton] will tell a story &gt&gt&gt about gun violence in her life, and there will be people in the audience &gt&gt&gt from gun violence orgs. The Manchester town hall was held at Manchester Community College. And the talking points advised Clinton to begin by saying, “We’ve seen yet another mass murder  —   this time, in a community college in Oregon that’s probably a lot like this one. ” A text of her speech shows that she promised to “make gun control a top priority” and enumerated controls like an “assault weapons ban,” an expansion of the list of persons barred from gun possession, and more laws against straw purchases. She did not mention the fact that the Oregon community college campus was a   zone —  which means it had 100 percent gun control. Nor did she mention that the gunman acquired his firearms via background checks. AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and host of “Bullets with AWR Hawkins,” a Breitbart News podcast. He is also the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.  