Breitbart News is joining PodcastOne, the nation’s leading   podcast network, in launching two new shows hosted by Breitbart’s Sonnie Johnson and Milo Yiannopoulos.  Did She Say That? with Sonnie Johnson launches today and features Johnson’s unique combination of conservative politics with a dash of   including guests from that genre. Friday, March 25, The Milo Yiannopoulos Show will debut, with a weekly discussion on technology, media, video games, politics and internet culture, hosted by Breitbart technology editor Milo Yiannopoulos. Both shows will be available weekly at PodcastOne. com, the PodcastOne app, iTunes and Breitbart. com. “Breitbart is all about giving our audience more of what they want,” said Breitbart News President and CEO Larry Solov. “We live in an   content landscape and podcasts are a terrific platform to reach our highly engaged community in a new and innovative way. There is a clear appetite for a more enriched and detailed weekly conversation with conservative voices like Milo and Sonnie, certainly two of the most unique and compelling voices in the conservative movement. It is a real windfall for us to partner with Podcast One in launching Milo’s and Sonnie’s podcasts which represent just the beginning of a new vertical of content we intend to grow. ” Sonnie Johnson says Did She Say That? with Sonnie Johnson will bring conservative ideas to a younger, diverse audience. “I made a resolution for 2016: stop bitching, moaning, and crying about Democrats and actually build a cultural army to destroy them with intellect,” said Johnson. “We know conservatives have the right principles. We just need better tactics and as Andrew Breitbart said, more voices. That’s why I’m so excited about this opportunity with Breitbart and Podcast one. I have chosen the culture war and Did She Say That? podcast will be my battle ground. Game on. ” Milo Yiannopoulos weighed in as only Milo can. “As the most fabulous supervillain on the internet, scourge of social justice warriors everywhere and Queen of All New Media, I couldn’t be more excited to enlarge my fabulous empire with a weekly show from Breitbart and Podcast One,” said Yiannopoulos. “Hundreds of thousands of bright young connoisseurs follow my columns and tweets, but until now they’ve been denied the pleasure of my dulcet tones excoriating the follies and fripperies of college feminists and assorted other internet nasties. Not anymore! Strap yourselves in, darlings  …    . ” Did She Say That? is available NOW on Podcastone. com, iTunes, and Breitbart. com. The Milo Yiannopoulos Show is available Friday, March 25 on PodcastOne. com, iTunes, and Breitbart. com, Make sure to follow @sonniejohnson and @TheMiloShow on Twitter