Two juveniles were detained by U. S. Border Patrol agents after they illegally crossed the U. S.  border while playing the Pokémon GO game. [On the evening of July 21, Border Patrol agents saw the pair walking southbound from Canada into the United States while playing Pokémon Go on their cellphones.  In a statement obtained by Breitbart Texas from the U. S. Customs and Border Protection agency, “Both juveniles were so captivated by their Pokémon GO games that they lost track of where they were. They crossed the international border inadvertently, but agents were able to reunite them with their mother. ” stated Public Affairs Officer Michael Rappold. The Border Patrol agents very quickly figured out that the two juveniles were unaware of where they were or that they were illegally crossing the border. Agents united the two with their mother at the nearby Border Patrol Station. U. S. Customs and Border Protection is the unified border agency within the Department of Homeland Security. They are charged with the management, control and protection of our nation’s borders at and between the official ports of entry. While the northern border does not get as much attention as the southern border of the United States, it is still a   border where anyone can cross it. As reported by Breitbart Texas, the Canadian government will lift the visa requirement for Mexican visitors on December 1 of this year. Immigration experts are concerned that “Canada will now become even more of a launching point for illegal entry into the United States. ” Immigration watchers are concerned that illegal aliens will use the opportunity to come across the “largely unguarded”  . S. border. Jessica Vaughan,  the Director of Policy Studies at the Center for Immigration Studies (CIS) told Breitbart Texas that our border agency should be very concerned that Mexicans will be able to travel to Canada without a visa. She noted that this raises the possibility that Mexican nationals, and “especially those Mexicans who have been deported already from the United States, or anyone who fraudulently obtains a Mexican passport, might seek to enter the United States illegally from Canada across our largely unguarded northern border. ” Note: This article has been updated. Lana Shadwick is a contributing writer and legal analyst for Breitbart Texas. She has served as a prosecutor and associate judge in Texas. Follow her on Twitter @LanaShadwick2.