President Trump’s decision to strike Syria has upended assumptions about American military involvement in the Middle East, angering adversaries and raising hopes among allies that it signals a new willingness by the United States to deploy force to help its friends and punish its foes. “People are jubilant in the Gulf right now,” said Mohammed Alyahya, a nonresident fellow at the Atlantic Council who is from Saudi Arabia. “What is clear is that Trump understands what American power can change and is willing to use it. ” The swift decision, by a president who had previously shown no interest in entering conflicts like Syria’s, set Mr. Trump apart from his predecessor’s far more cautious approach to the war. The missile strikes on a Syrian airfield inflicted only minor damage and are unlikely to change the dynamics of a complex conflict that rages on local, regional and global levels. On the ground, it pits an array of rebel groups against the Syrian president, Bashar  . Supporting the rebels are nations like Saudi Arabia and Turkey, who oppose Mr. Assad and his ally, Iran. The war has also entangled Russia and the United States, and sent shock waves through Europe, which streams of Syrian refugees have fled to. But Mr. Trump’s decision to launch quick strikes raised questions about whether it would give the involved powers pause as they pursue their objectives in a war that seems to have no end in sight. Russia and Iran, who back the Syrian government, have responded angrily to the strikes, while allies who criticized President Barack Obama’s cautious approach have welcomed the change. Some allies renewed their calls for a leadership change in Damascus, although officials in the Trump administration did not portray the strikes as the start of a broader campaign. “A lot of this is an emotional response, but nothing about this strike suggests that the fundamentals of the Syria conflict have shifted,” said Noah Bonsey, a Syria analyst with the International Crisis Group. As president, Mr. Obama sought to differentiate himself from his predecessor, George W. Bush, by limiting direct American involvement in Middle Eastern wars. That angered some allies. Israel, Saudi Arabia and others accused him of overlooking aggressive moves by Iran in order to clinch a deal to limit its nuclear program. And Persian Gulf states and Turkey were irate when he did not enforce his own “red line” on the use of chemical weapons in Syria by using force against Mr. Assad after an attack in 2013 that killed more than 1, 000 people. Now, many who felt that Mr. Obama’s caution gave a green light to Mr. Assad’s brutality are lauding Mr. Trump for his forcible response to this week’s chemical attack in Khan Sheikhoun, a town in northern Syria. “Everyone here in Khan Sheikhoun is happy. It is revenge for the families of the victims,” said Yasser Sarmini, a rebel fighter who was in the town at the time of the strike. “Trump is more frank and earnest than Obama. He promised and fulfilled his promise. ” In Turkey, which has long backed Syrian rebels in their effort to topple Mr. Assad, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan told a rally that he supported the attack but wanted further action. “I want to say we found this positive as a step taken against the war crimes the Assad regime has committed with chemical and conventional weapons,” Mr. Erdogan said. “Is it enough? I don’t reckon it is enough. ” He called for the establishment of “safe zones” inside Syria, an idea considered but ultimately rejected by the Obama administration. Turkey’s foreign minister, Mevlut Cavusoglu, went further, calling in a televised speech for a leadership change in Syria. “This regime should be removed from Syria right away,” he said. “The best way to do this is to establish the interim government, an interim government without Assad. ” In Israel, which has kept its distance from the war raging across its northern border, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said the strikes sent a clear message against the spread of chemical weapons. “Israel fully supports President Trump’s decision and hopes that this message of resolve in the face of the Assad regime’s horrific actions will resonate not only in Damascus, but in Tehran, Pyongyang and elsewhere,” he said. But Mr. Trump’s actions could complicate the pursuit of other American priorities, including defeating the Islamic State. Russian officials, who have denied that the Syrian government has retained any chemical weapons, condemned the American attack and suspended their agreement with the United States over the use of Syrian airspace, the Russian Foreign Ministry said on Friday. Russia has argued that the deaths in Khan Sheikhoun on Tuesday occurred when a bomb hit a chemical weapons facility belonging to the rebels. So far, Mr. Trump has not clarified whether Thursday’s strikes were a   response to the chemical attack or the start of more direct American involvement. He had previously spoken of cooperating with Russia against the Islamic State, and his spokesman, Sean Spicer, said just last week that Mr. Assad’s staying in power was “a political reality that we have to accept. ” Maha Yahya, the director of the Carnegie Middle East Center in Beirut, Lebanon, said, “It’s too early to call this a game changer, because we don’t know what the next step will be  —   or if there will be a next step. ” Ms. Yahya said she had learned of the strikes in the company of Syrian dissidents in Washington, where some applauded and others stayed silent. “There were a lot of mixed emotions,” she added. “They were worried about what this means, yet at the same time incredibly relieved and happy that someone is finally standing up for them against Assad. ” Some analysts said that even if the strike did not represent a major blow to Mr. Assad’s military abilities, it could be a deterrent by signaling new American assertiveness in the conflict. In Iran, the attack, and the swiftness with which it was executed, caught the establishment by surprise. Most in the crowds at Friday Prayer said they had heard of the attack only through social media. State television broadcast the reaction of the Foreign Ministry hours after the strike. Farshad Ghorbanpour, an analyst close to the government of President Hassan Rouhani of Iran, predicted that the country would take the news seriously. “They will choose not to be confrontational towards the U. S. and the West,” Mr. Ghorbanpour said. “Iran will continue to support Bashar   but not at all costs. ” The strikes did not appear to have significantly degraded the ability of Mr. Assad and his allies to wage war. A correspondent in Syria for Rossiya 24, the main   Russian satellite news channel, filed video from Al Shayrat airfield. The barrages of Tomahawk cruise missiles destroyed nine airplanes and littered a runway with shrapnel, among other damage, the reporter said. He posted a photograph on Instagram of at least one warplane that he said had not been damaged. Talal Barazi, the governor of Homs Province, which includes the air base, said by telephone on Friday that five people in the military and two civilians had been killed in the strikes. “What happened today is biggest evidence that the U. S. and its allies are the biggest supporters of the Daesh terrorist,” he said, using the Arabic acronym for the Islamic State. While chemical attacks draw the world’s attention, most of the more than 400, 000 people who have died in the Syrian civil war have been killed with conventional weapons whose use has not piqued Mr. Trump’s ire, leaving some observers skeptical that the strikes would change the war’s course. “I feel the ecstasy of revenge now,” said Malek   an antigovernment activist who recently fled to Turkey. “I don’t feel the strike will change anything. Unless Bashar goes, nothing will change. ”