Welcome to Breitbart News’s daily live updates of the 2016 horse race.[ —    8:10: Former RNC Chair Michael Steel says on MSNBC that “Armageddon will break out” on the floor of the RNC convention if the establishment tries to steal the nomination from Trump. 8:08: Neocons who want to continue George W. Bush’s foreign policy against Trump.  8:00: Just 50 tickets for GOP’s Thursday’s debate went to public. 7:57: Bill Bennett: Reagan’s Bill Bennett: ”Trump is winning fair and square, so why should the nomination be grabbed from him?” https:  .   —   Philip Rucker (@PhilipRucker) March 3, 2016,  7:55: Stephen Moore may endorse Trump, according to the Washington Post: Stephen Moore, a conservative economist and former member of The Wall Street Journal editorial board, said he is considering an endorsement. “For me, Trump potentially represents a big expansion of the Republican Party, a way to bring in those   Reagan Democrats,” Moore said. “That’s necessary if the party is going to win again. ” 7:50: Chris Matthews points out on Hardball that Bill Clinton disappeared from the campaign trail when Donald Trump brought up all of Clinton’s dirty laundry after Hillary Clinton tried to play the “war on women” card on him. Mitt Romney and his, 7:45: Trump promises to be a “dealmaker” in new video: 7:30: Seems like Rubio doesn’t want to be a comedian after his Super Tuesday losses. 7:18:   forces panicking as they try to con donors out of millions to try to derail Trump. CBS’s Dickerson say it is a “long shot” that Trump will be stopped: It’s a long shot. There is definitely motivation. I asked someone involved in the   effortto rank the Republican panic on a scale of one to ten, and he said 11. But harnessing that panic requires politicians and party regulars to organize themselves quickly, and there’s no leader in this effort. It requires them to take a big risk. Normally they don’t like to be on the wrong side of public opinion. And there’s no guarantee [it will work]  —   attacks from establishment could very well make Trump stronger. 7:16: Herman Cain: . @THEHermanCain to GOP establishment: All this   rhetoric is dividing the party. Get over it. pic. twitter.   —   FOX Business (@FoxBusiness) March 2, 2016,  7:10: Romney already being ridiculed: There’s like 20 things about this Mitt Romney vs Trump speech in Utah tomorrow that . make absolutely no sense to me.  —   Mike Gehrke (@mikegehrke) March 2, 2016,  If this Mitt thing doesn’t work Bob Dole is the only card Republicans have left to play.  —   Mike Gehrke (@mikegehrke) March 2, 2016,  6:40: Trump Blasts Romney, Rubio: Just another desperate move by the man who should have easily beaten Barrack Obama. ( )  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 2, 2016,  Failed Presidential Candidate Mitt Romney is having a news conference tomorrow to criticize me. ( )  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 2, 2016,  . @CNN poll just hit 49% for Trump. Interesting how my numbers have gone so far up since lightweight Marco Rubio has turned nasty. Love it!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 2, 2016,  6:30: CNN Report: Cruz considered dropping out if he lost Texas: Ted Cruz would have seriously considered dropping out of the Republican presidential race had he lost his home state of Texas on Super Tuesday, his campaign’s chief strategist told donors Wednesday. In a detailed   call with several dozen donors, Jason Johnson said that Cruz himself was comfortable stepping aside if he had lost Texas. 6:20: On CNN, Rep. Jason Chaffetz ( ) actually said that Mitt Romney is not a “ ” politician with a straight face. How stupid does he think voters are? After a comment like that, nothing he says after will be taken seriously. 5:48: Huge enthusiasm gap: 3 million fewer Dems have voted in the  first 15 states compared to 2008, as GOP turnout surges. https:  .   —   Nick Confessore (@nickconfessore) March 2, 2016,  5:44: deBlasio introducing Clinton: NYC Mayor Bill Deblasio cheers on Hillary Clinton takes shots at Donald Trump@fox5ny pic. twitter.   —   Sharon  Crowley (@sharoncrowleyny) March 2, 2016,  5:43: Paul Ryan spokesman: “We have heard from the campaign but the two have not yet spoken. We expect the speaker to be in touch with all the remaining candidates soon to discuss our efforts to build a bold conservative policy agenda for 2017. ” 5:41: Rubio in Michigan: Crowd at Rubio’s Macomb County rally much smaller than large one he had in western Mich. last week. #2016,  —   David Eggert (@DavidEggert00) March 2, 2016,  Rubio wraps up   speech. Spent beginning ripping Trump, then got into standard stump remarks #2016,  —   David Eggert (@DavidEggert00) March 2, 2016,  5:40: In what will surely sway Trump’s Republican supporters, the liberal Los Angeles Times editorial board declares that Trump is “unfit” to be president. 5:35: New York Magazine: More Bad News for Marco Rubio: He Just Lost the Support of Fox News, In his role as the donor class’s darling, Marco Rubio has enjoyed support from the Republicans’ media arm, Fox News. Throughout the primary, Fox provided Rubio with friendly interviews and key bookings, including the first   response to Barack Obama’s Oval Office address on ISIS. Many of the network’s top pundits, including Stephen Hayes and Charles Krauthammer, have been enthusiastic boosters. Bill Sammon, Fox’s Washington managing editor, is the father of Rubio’s communications director, Brooke Sammon. But this alliance now seems to be over. According to three Fox sources, Fox chief Roger Ailes has told people he’s lost confidence in Rubio’s ability to win. “We’re finished with Rubio,” Ailes recently told a Fox host. “We can’t do the Rubio thing anymore. ” 5:30: Michigan Poll: Trump +10, 5:25: Not having a good Super Tuesday and hurling desperate insult after insult may cause Rubio to lose his voice: Rubio lost his voice at really the worst time. Seems so subdued compared to his usual energy.  —   Tal Kopan (@TalKopan) March 2, 2016,  5:22: Rubio doesn’t think his “personal attacks” didn’t backfire on Trump because “they’re not personal attacks. He’s been personally attacking people  …    ” Rubio says he doesn’t think Trump will secure enough delegates to win the nomination and accuses him of being a con man. 5:20: Trump on bringing in more voters to the GOP: Why can’t the leaders of the Republican Party see that I am bringing in new voters by the   are creating a larger, stronger party!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 2, 2016,  5:19: Chuck Todd points out that Trump’s strength in the key swing exurban counties should worry Clinton in a potential general election. ABC News last night on Trump’s Cracker   Foods coalition: Super Tuesday provided convincing evidence that Trump’s appeal extends across Cracker Barrel territory and well into Whole Foods land, to borrow a phrase used by FiveThirtyEight. com. Two states where Trump romped   —   rolling up some of his biggest margins yet  —   tell that story. Massachusetts is a New England state that’s the fifth wealthiest in the nation. Alabama is a Southern state that’s the fifth poorest. On Tuesday, they formed unlikely poles holding up a broadening Trump tent. 5:15: Kasich: Maybe Rubio is taking votes away from me: John Kasich’s response when I asked him about claims he took votes away from Rubio in VA and elsewhere  &gt pic. twitter.   —   Kailani Koenig (@kailanikm) March 2, 2016,  5:10: Trump adviser Huckabee Sanders: Voters supporting Trump because they want to destroy the “  Street axis of power” and Trump is the only person who can shake things up. 5:08: On CNN, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, Trump’s senior adviser, says this is an “election” and “not a selection process. ” She accuses people in the establishment of fearing that they are “losing control” because Trump is not their handpicked guy. She hopes the GOP establishment follows the lead of the voters. She says that to say that Trump is not unifying the party is bogus when he won states like Massachusetts and Alabama with two different demographics. She says Trump has surrounded himself with a great team, takes in a lot of information, and makes his own decision after processing all of it. She says that’s exactly what people should want in an executive. She says Republicans who are saying they won’t vote for Trump dislike Clinton even more and they will eventually come around. 4:41: Hannity: Rubio now a ‘pawn’ for the establishment: Hey Marc,@marcorubio is now pawn for establishment. Sad to me. That’s not man I knew.  https:  .   —   Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) March 2, 2016,  Rubio World has a new enemy: Sean Hannity. Staffer: ”what a fucking asshole. He lets Trump trash everyone for months  …    .  —   Marc Caputo (@MarcACaputo) March 2, 2016,  4:39: Murdoch: GOP would be “mad” not to unify around Trump if he becomes nominee: As predicted, Trump reaching out to make peace with Republican ”establishment”.  If he becomes inevitable party would be mad not to unify.  —   Rupert Murdoch (@rupertmurdoch) March 2, 2016,    4:33: Updated Super Tuesday delegate count: Updated GOP Super Tuesday delegate totals: Trump 243Cruz 220Rubio 101Kasich 21Carson 3,  —   Mark Murray (@mmurraypolitics) March 2, 2016,  4:27: Breitbart’s Spiering : In Miami, @marcorubio fans struggle with the rise of Trump  —   https:  .   —   Charlie Spiering (@charliespiering) March 2, 2016,  4:25: Sanders said he needs a haircut, . @BernieSanders tells crowd he needs a hair cut. ”I need to take care of that” he says pulling at the ends of his hair #portlandme,  —   MaryAlice Parks (@maryaliceparks) March 2, 2016,  3:59: Interesting comments from noted Trump critic Alex Castellanos: ”I think if Trump is going to be the nom  …     then we as Republicans should pitch in to make sure that Clinton is not elected”  —   Caitlin   (@CHueyBurnsRCP) March 2, 2016,  ”I think it would be harmful to the country for Republicans to change the rules after the game has been played,” Alex Castellanos tells me,  —   Caitlin   (@CHueyBurnsRCP) March 2, 2016,  3:55: Kasich says he has he had a “very nice conversation with Dr. Ben Carson” and says he “held his head high” and is “a very good man. ” He asks the audience to give Carson a round of applause. 3:48: After nearly 20, 000 Massachusetts Democrats left the party to become Republicans or independents —  most likely because of Trump —  and Trump won MA’s GOP primary in dominant fashion last night, Massachusetts GOP Gov. Charlie Baker says he won’t vote for Trump in November. 3:35: Kasich appealing to Democrats: At Kasich event in Grand Blanc, Mich. man introducing Kasich speaks of his crossover appeals, asks Democrats here to raise hands (four do).  —   Ben Gittleson (@bgittleson) March 2, 2016,  3:32: Sanders appeals to Michigan workers by highlighting his opposition to the   Partnership deal. It’s an argument that may work for Trump as well.  3:30: Now Romney is trying to a tough guy: DINOSAURS LUMBER: Mitt Romney is holding a press conference tmrw.  Will Candy @CandyCrowley get the first question?  —   Laura Ingraham (@IngrahamAngle) March 2, 2016,  3:22: Impact of Carson vote: Carson was consistently winning  % of the vote in primaries. If those voters break towards one candidate, it has major impact on race,  —   Ben Jacobs (@Bencjacobs) March 2, 2016,  3:02: Carson still very popular: A Carson endorsement could be meaningful: he still has the highest favorability rating in GOP field.   in recent national CNN poll.  —   Adam Wollner (@AdamWollner) March 2, 2016,  2:55: Trump, not Sanders, revolutionizing politics: Voter turnout shows @realDonaldTrump  —   not @BernieSanders  —   leading a revolution https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   CNN Politics (@CNNPolitics) March 2, 2016,  2:52: Greg Abbott making case for Cruz: . @GovAbbott: Voters will gravitate towards the true conservative @tedcruz. pic. twitter.   —   FOX Business (@FoxBusiness) March 2, 2016,  2:45: What to expect in Romney’s speech: On @MSNBC, @kasie reports Romney remarks tomorrow to include praise for Rubio, Kasich  Cruz focus on state of the race, criticize Trump,  —   Jesse Rodriguez (@JesseRodriguez) March 2, 2016,  2:30: Establishment seems angry today: Marco Rubio lost big last night. I even beat him in Virginia, where he spent so much time and money. Now his bosses are desperate and angry!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 2, 2016,  Actually, could be interesting what @MittRomney has to say. Jump in? Endorse? Block Trump, and brokered convention? Rant? Switch to Hillary?  —   Joel Pollak (@joelpollak) March 2, 2016,  2:25: Top former Romney adviser Fehrnstrom: GOP leadership could make more progress by supporting Trump: “There are Republicans opposing Trump, but they are a tiny minority when you look at the voting,” Eric Fehrnstrom, a Republican consultant who was a senior adviser to Romney’s campaign, said in an interview. “The party leadership could make more progress if they focused on building bridges instead of burning them. ” Fehrnstrom noted that Romney won six of 10 contests on Super Tuesday four years ago. In the Super Tuesday contests that took place this week, Trump won seven of 11 states. “What usually happens right now is the party rallies behind the presumptive nominee,” Fehrnstrom said. “I suspect that will happen, but it looks like the process will take itself a bit longer to work out. ” 2:17: According to Josh Newby, Floridians, especially in Pensacola, are excited about Trump, according to Pensacola Magazine editor Josh Newby. He has not seen too many Rubio signs or watch parties while Trump is appealing to veterans and evangelicals, he says on MSNBC. 2:15: MSNBC’s Craig Melvin has been reporting and anchoring from Ohio. He says Democrats seem to be holding their noses and voting for Clinton and clearly sees a lack of enthusiasm on the left eight years after Obama galvanized so  many to the polls. 2:13: Ben Carson releases statement: He’ll discuss more about the future of his movement at CPAC on Friday. Ben Carson statement says he sees no path forward for his campaign, confirms he will skip tomorrow’s GOP debate pic. twitter.   —   Bradd Jaffy (@BraddJaffy) March 2, 2016,  2:00  —   Ben Carson bombshell. He will not attend Thursday’s presidential debate —  BUT he is not suspending, at least until he speaks at CPAC. SCOOP: BEN CARSON will tell supporters today that he does not see “path forward,” will not attend Thursday debate https:  .   —   Robert Costa (@costareports) March 2, 2016,  1:28  —   Details on Romney’s speech (via AP): 1:17  —   Looks like Kasich is behind Rubio’s   Virginia finish: Kasich’s   Virginia   were in   areas (    towns): pic. twitter.   —   Greg Giroux (@greggiroux) March 2, 2016,  1:13  —   140 characters or less oppo dump. Why would anyone in Florida vote for lightweight Senator Marco Rubio. Check out his credit card scam, his house sale  his no show voting!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 2, 2016,  1:04  —   Fox News reports Mitt Romney will make a “major speech” tomorrow in Utah regarding the presidential race. 1:01  —   Via the Guardian: Trump dominates in Texas border town where proposed wall would be built. 12:55  —   Trump vs ads: The special interests and people who control our politicians (puppets) are spending $25 million on misleading and fraudulent T. V. ads on me.  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 2, 2016,  12:36  —   Via Politico, Democrat strategists say Hillary could be underestimating Trump: It’s time to stop pointing and laughing at the Republican primary. For all the GOP  ’s flaws, many veteran Democrats are beginning to conclude, Donald Trump is a canny operator who just might end up in the White House if they’re not careful. He appears to be cracking the code with white   voters who could help him put blue Rust Belt states in play against Hillary Clinton. He’s helping to fuel record turnout in GOP primaries and he’s mastered the media like no candidate in recent memory, with his constant feeding of catnip to cable TV and his   missiles on Twitter. “It’s fair to say there’s been a graveyard already out there of people underestimating him,” said Doug Sosnik, a former Bill Clinton White House adviser. “And I am old enough to remember the sort of Democratic intelligentsia that was hoping Ronald Reagan would be nominated by Republicans in 1980 because everyone knew he was a doddering old right winger who could never get elected president. ” “So there is some danger to underestimating his candidacy,” Sosnik said. “Having said that, I have enough confidence in the judgment of the American people to never elect someone like Donald Trump president of the United States. ” 12:30  —   Kasich misses an event in Michigan: Kasich misses MI town hall after plane troubles. He has 7 MI public appearances in next few days, including FNC GOP debate in Detroit Thurs,  —   GABE SPIEGEL (@GABESPIEGEL) March 2, 2016,  12:23  —   Clinton campaign outraised by Sanders again: The @HillaryClinton campaign is out with Feb fundraising totals and as expected they aren’t as big as Bernie’s. pic. twitter.   —   Tamara Keith (@tamarakeithNPR) March 2, 2016,  12:15  —   Rubio casts an early ballot in Florida: The Florida Republican, accompanied by his wife Jeanette Rubio, arrived at the West Miami City Commission to cast his ballot for the Florida primary’s early voting. Reporters were not allowed to enter the polling center and they could not see Rubio actually cast his ballot. Although, a Rubio staffer rushed to retrieve his wallet after because he didn’t have his official identification with him. 12:02  —   Fox News reporter wants to correct the record on his network’s treatment of the GOP candidates. Not once at @FoxNews  —   since 1999  —   have I ever heard any editor or manager ever direct anyone to favor or disadvantage any candidate.  —   James Rosen (@JamesRosenFNC) March 2, 2016,  There’s no bias at @FoxNews against @realDonaldTrump @tedcruz @marcorubio or anyone else! But if believing (and tweeting) so gratifies  …      —   James Rosen (@JamesRosenFNC) March 2, 2016,  11:36  —   Redskins player: I’m ‘off the Trump bandwagon’   11:28  —   Recriminations begin? Goldman Sachs Puts Its Only Trump Donor On Administrative Leave: https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   The Daily Caller (@DailyCaller) March 2, 2016,   11:05  —   Democrat turnout way DOWN Republican turnout way UP. Look at these massive turnout figures. Dems WAY down. GOP is WAY up. pic. twitter.   —   John Nolte (@NolteNC) March 2, 2016,    11:00  —   Tavis Smiley: Black America could get on Trump train, For many black voters, I think it’s fair to say that, at the moment, at least, Trump is no Romney. Consequently, there is no reason to believe that if he is his party’s nominee, Donald Trump wouldn’t make a serious play for black voters. Who knows how much he might skim? In a close election, it might not take much.   10:44  —   Establishment moving from Rubio to Cruz? Cruz is winning states. Rubio is not (at all! ). Cruz has beaten Trump. Rubio has not. Cruz will have more delegates. Obvious case for Cruz.  —   Ross Douthat (@DouthatNYT) March 2, 2016,    10:34  —   SCORCHED EARTH: Rubio Super PAC runs KKK ad against Trump in Missouri. Where were these ads against Barack Obama?  10:32  —   SCORCHED EARTH: Web ad from conservative group slams Trump as racist. Where were these ads against Barack Obama?   10:05  —   First Read: “Given the split field, you have to like Trump’s chances in Florida and Ohio” The Republican best positioned to stop Trump in Florida (Rubio) is someone who won just one state last night and finished third in delegates. And the Republican best positioned to stop Trump in Ohio (Kasich) still hasn’t won a single state and has earned a total of just 23 delegates. What’ more, neither Rubio nor Kasich seem built to win the nine contests  —   Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Hawaii, Idaho, Michigan, Mississippi, DC (with this maybe being the one exception)  —   between now and March 15.   9:36  —   Daily News still in   mode:   9:19  —   This coming Saturday March 5, and Tuesday March 8, eight states and Puerto Rico vote in the GOP primary. Here are what the polls tell us  —   which is not much: Monday March 5, Kansas  —   Trump +12, Kentucky   poll had Jeb Bush +1, Louisiana   polls had Carson up +4, Trump up +13, Maine  —   Last poll had Christie +13, Puerto Rico (March 6)  —   no polls,   Tuesday March 8, Hawaii   polls, Idaho   polls, Michigan  —   Trump +19. 4, Mississippi  —   Very old poll has Trump +7,   9:12  —   Bookmaker Pays Out Early on Trump Winning Republican Nomination, Paddy Power Betfair Plc, Ireland’s largest bookmaker, is paying out 120, 000 euros ($130, 000) on Donald Trump winning the U. S. Republican presidential nomination. Trump and Democrat Hillary Clinton each won seven states on their way to commanding victories in Super Tuesday contests. “Since 1988, the candidate to clean up on Super Tuesday has always gone onto win their party’s nomination,” the   bookmaker said in   statement on Wednesday.   9:00  —   Podhoretz: “Here’s how Rubio and Cruz can still take down Trump” So you’re saying there’s a chance.   8:40  —    The Hill: “Clinton almost halfway towards the Dem nomination after Super Tuesday” Hillary Clinton will walk away with the majority of Super Tuesday delegates as she continues to march past Bernie Sanders toward the Democratic party’s presidential nomination. The former secretary of State has already won 457 Super Tuesday delegates, according to a tally from The Associated Press, while Sanders had 286. One hundred and   delegates were up for grabs as of early Wednesday morning, out of the 865 total pledged delegates awarded by Super Tuesday states.   8:36  ’s Tom Brokaw mocks Rubio. TOM BROKAW  —   @marcorubio “looked like a guy who was running for student council president who didn’t have a date to the prom”  —   Charlie Spiering (@charliespiering) March 2, 2016,    8:35  —   WaPo: “1 million more people have voted in Republican primaries than Democratic ones”   8:30  —   On “MSNBC’s “Morning Joe,” The Weekly Standard’s Bill Kristol admits he is prepared to give Hillary the Oval Office in order to defeat Trump.  