CHARLOTTE, North Carolina —  President Obama will make his second appearance in the Tar Heel state in three days to stump for former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton on Friday. Coinciding with Obama’s campaign visits, voters across the state are receiving notice that their insurance premiums under Obamacare will spike by nearly   percent next year. [Popular conservative Congressman Mark Meadows ( ) highlighted increasing Obamacare premiums as the primary reason “President Obama cannot save Hillary Clinton” in a statement issued to Breitbart News.  In his statement, Congressman Meadows hammers the Obama legacy: President Obama is trying to make Hillary’s case to North Carolinians even though she just learned she’s under federal investigation yet again. Obama supports Hillary to preserve his own legacy, namely Obamacare. What the people of North Carolina know is that starting next year, Obamacare premiums are set to spike and insurers are leaving the marketplace. President Obama cannot save Hillary Clinton with 4 days to go. The momentum is clearly behind Donald Trump and on November 8th, the Tar Heel State will vote to Make America Great Again. As previously reported by Breitbart News, both President Obama and the Clinton campaign have tried to shift focus away from Hillary and towards President Obama and his “legacy. ” “My legacy is on the ballot,” Obama roars in the ad. “Tolerance is on the ballot. Democracy is on the ballot. Justice is on the ballot. Good schools are on the ballot. ” Noticeably absent among the things Obama lists as being on the ballot is the person whose name actually appears on the ballot, Hillary Clinton. That Obama “legacy” might not be as popular as the Clinton campaign is hoping as the North Carolina Department of Insurance has approved a 24. 26 percent statewide average premium hike for 2017. The Clinton campaign has deployed nearly all of it’s top surrogates  —   including the candidate  —   to North Carolina in the final days before the election, as polling has shown Trump surging into a significant lead. President Obama will speak at the PNC Music Pavilion in Charlotte Friday evening starting at 6:00 p. m. Dustin Stockton is a political reporter for Breitbart News, a community liaison for Gun Owners of America, and a political strategist. Follow him on Twitter @DustinStockton or  Facebook.