Leftist billionaire George Soros gave a PAC, Maricopa Strong, two million dollars to work to remove Sheriff Joe Arpaio from office. [It’s part of his apparent plan to elect local prosecutors who may back his criminal leniency and   immigration agenda.  Soros has poured roughly $3 million into local 2016 races in order to back candidates who could use their discretion as district attorneys to reduce sentencing, particularly for suspected drug traffickers, in order to reduce incarceration rates and racial disparities in sentencing across the country. Politico reports wealthy leftists want Arpaio out: The   PAC, Maricopa Strong, will file campaign finance documents Friday showing Soros’   dollar investment against Arpaio, along with $500, 000 from Texas energy billionaires Laura and John Arnold and $250, 000 from Laurene Powell Jobs (the widow of Apple   Steve Jobs). The group had previously reported a $300, 000 donation from Soros, one of the Democratic Party’s biggest donors  …     Maricopa Strong has spent $2. 9 million in the sheriff’s race, with the donations from Soros and others funding a flurry of mailers and TV ads boosting Democratic candidate Paul Penzone and hammering Arpaio. Soros has typically been the sole funder of his local   campaigns around the country, though Jobs and the Arnolds joined him in funding Maricopa Strong. Arpaio, famous (and infamous)  nationwide for cracking down on illegal immigration, is trailing Penzone in some polls. The Arizona sheriff has spent some $2. 8 million on TV ads of his own. Soros’ interest in both mass immigration and criminal leniency policies make Arpaio’s defeat an urgent priority. Leaked documents from Soros’s Open Society Institute show that the billionaire successfully lobbied for a significant increase in the number of refugees imported into the U. S. every year. Beginning in 2017, the U. S. will import 100, 000 refugees from the Third World annually. Regarding the ongoing migrant invasion of Europe, Soros admitted involvement and stated “national borders are the obstacle. ”