Speaking to Polish television, a former member of Poland’s   police and an academic expert on information warfare and terrorism have articulated their concern about the intellectual and spiritual collapse of European civilisation, remarking it is “at the end of its existence”. [Former Central Bureau of Investigation (CBS) officer Jacek Wrona and military history academic Dr. Rafał Brzeski were guests on the Polish TVP Info programme discussing the Munich shooting in which nine were killed, and were forced to conclude it was a symptom of the end of European Civilisation. Information warfare expert Dr. Brzeski rejected the suggestion in German media that the Munich killer  —   an 18 year old Muslim  —   was mad, pointing out the killing had “an element of planning” reports wPolityce.  As for the treatment of the attack in the mainstream media, the academic said it was a case of the “ministry of propaganda at work  …     it is  . There is nothing worse than   in journalism”. Rejecting the reluctance of mainstream media to recognise the killings as a terrorism, he said: “this is definitely an act of terror  …     the execution of an act of terrorism. He was setting out to scare people, and that is an act of terror”.   the emergency press conference held by German Chancellor Angela Merkel in which she said her government stood by its policies and decisions which helped create the migrant crisis, and recognising the frustration of the German people with this approach, the academic remarked: “The Germans have had enough of this, which does not mean the government has had enough. These are two different approaches”. Former specialist   police officer Mr. Wrona expressed his deep concerns for the future of Europe on the back of a summer of terror attacks across France and Germany. Noting the phenomenon of free movement of people across Europe which has effectively meant free movement of illegal   weapons from Eastern to Western Europe, the security expert said: “The whole Balkans are flooded with weapons, and from the Balkans have come two million people. “Together with them came arms dealers, gangsters, drug dealers. Buying a Kalashnikov [Soviet automatic rifle] in Bosnia and Herzegovina is as it was with us after the war. You can buy one for peanuts”. But the free flow of guns and grenades West is not the main problem Europe faces said the officer. Pointing to the existential crisis of a lack of faith and confidence, Mr. Wrona said: “The worst problem for [the police service] is political correctness  …     Europe is at the end of its existence. Western Europe is practically dead. These people live in a void, without ideas. And then come along the young, who [only want] to make money, as once did the barbarians”. Polish politicians and public figures have consistently been at the forefront of robust responses to the Europe migrant crisis. Breitbart London reported the remarks of Poland’s interior minister Mariusz Blaszczak after the Islamist Nice attacks that saw 84 killed this month when he said multiculturalism, immigration, and political correctness were responsible for the killing. Earlier this year popular Polish magazine wSIECI splashed on the “Islamic rape of Europe” with a graphic front cover which was shared around the world as mainstream media reacted in horror to the frank discussion of the “clash of two civilisations in the countries of old Europe”. Listen to Oliver Lane discuss this article on Breitbart News Daily on SiriusXM:  