Listeners of Breitbart News Daily and Breitbart News Sunday on SiriusXM called into the shows to discuss their reaction to seeing the film Clinton Cash during its global premiere on Breitbart over the weekend. Many explained that they held viewing parties that included both liberals and progressives. [Brett in New York gathered friends and family, some of them very liberal. Brett said:  My wife’s sister and her husband and their friend are huge liberals. By the end, they said they will never be voting for Hillary, ever, ever, ever. And I even got my wife’s sister to put on a Make America Great Again hat. My    said, “I hate this woman” after viewing Clinton Cash and being made aware of some of the Clinton Foundation’s corrupt practices. Bret in Ohio also called in. “These people [the Clintons] mesh so perfectly into the corruption that’s pervasive in all the continents, essentially.   …     What really burns me is that it doesn’t appear that the Clintons or Obama   …     they don’t behave like Americans. ” Holly in Texas invited some independent and liberal friends to view Clinton Cash. “After the viewing, they were shocked. Initially, they were hanging back, she said. “And then when they saw Haiti, that’s when they got hooked —  really at Haiti and then also in Columbia, with the clear cutting of the forests. They went ballistic. ” After the film, said Holly, “We had a discussion. And they were saying, “This explains why we’re not getting anything done in the government. That was their response. They were so frustrated with the government and why things are not happening, and this film, to them, explained why things are so out of control. ” Lisa in California said, “I have not been able to sleep, just tossing and turning after watching Clinton Cash. It’s just beyond disturbing. My husband and I watched with our    daughter and our     son, and my daughter said to me, ‘Mom, how do the Clintons get away with this?’ She was just astounded. ” Breitbart News Sunday is broadcast live on SiriusXM Patriot Channel 125 from 7 p. m. to 10 p. m. Eastern. Listen to more comments from listeners below. LISTEN: 