As Donald Trump trends up in national polls (again showing how clueless the GOP “smart set” and the   establishments are) Hillary Clinton tries to mobilize her   base at the SEIU convention by pledging amnesty legislation in her first 100 days in office. Stay tuned to Breitbart News for live updates of the horse race.   —   All times eastern. 7:22: Clinton campaign denies invitation to debate Sanders in California. 7:00: New York Jets owner Woody Johnson, a former Jeb Bush finance chairman, reportedly will help Trump raise money for the general election campaign. 6:39: North Korean official tells Reuters that Trump’s openness to meet with Kim Jong Un is “for utilization of the presidential election, that’s all. A kind of a propaganda or  This is useless, just a gesture for the presidential election. ” 6:19: Sanders campaign disinvites Tommy Chong from East L. A. rally. Chong tells the Hollywood Reporter that Sanders may be a phony on legalizing marijuana, saying, “It’s lip service to get the votes, but they don’t want to endorse what I stand for and what I’ve stood for all my professional career. ” He later Tweeted that he hopes to continue to support Sanders’s campaign: Hope to continue my support, reschedule, and continue activism, political change and promoting peace anywhere possible.  —   Tommy Chong (@tommychong) May 23, 2016,  6:11: UCLA coach warns Josh Rosen, who may be the first pick in the NFL Draft whenever he decides to go pro, to not wear “F*uck Trump” hat while playing golf like he did last month: Jim Mora cautioned Josh Rosen of becoming Johnny Manziel after he wore an   hathttps:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Sports Illustrated (@SInow) May 23, 2016,  5:55: Trump is like the   mobile quarterback (or Nolan Richardson’s 40 minutes of hell in basketball) that gives conventionally great defenses fits because you can’t prepare for their improvisational skills. It’s something the Clinton campaign is going to find out in the fall campaign. Hillary is already confused. 1, 000+ staffers prepared a year for #Trump2016. Truth   you can’t prepare for @realDonaldTrump. Watch.  —   Dan Scavino Jr. (@DanScavino) May 23, 2016,  5:53: McAuliffe’s attorney reportedly denies any knowledge of FBI probe.  5:51: NEWT: Mitt Romney’s   crusade “pathetic,” “bizarre,” and “weird. ” “Having a guy like that go berserk in public makes you wonder what his problems are,” he told the Wall Street Journal. 5:45: Hillary Clinton   Joel Benenson doing his best to spin recent polls that show Trump is trending up. 5:42: Harry Reid: “Hell no” to any running mate who is a Dem. Senator in a state with a GOP governor. 5:39: Trump: “No problem” with formal declaration of war to fight terrorism. 5:35: Bill Clinton says Trump wants to take us back to a past that was not so hot to nearly every ethnic group and women. He adds that it wasn’t that hot in his part of the country to Jewish people as well. He hits Trump on not releasing his tax returns even though his wife won’t release the transcripts of her Wall Street speeches: WATCH: @BillClinton: Trump ”never tires of telling us how much richer he is,” but won’t release tax returns. https:  .   —   ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) May 23, 2016,  5:32: Bill Clinton says there are too many young people in prison and we need to “let them out and let them go to work. ” He also pushes for amnesty legislation to get all illegal immigrants into the workforce. 5:30: Sanders again says Clinton should keep her word and debate him in California: In press gaggle, Sanders calls for HRC to ’keep her word’ and debate him here in Calif. pic. twitter.   —   Kurtis Lee (@kurtisalee) May 23, 2016,  5:25: Sanders enlists Cornell West and Rep. Ellison ( ) to help draft Dem. platform: Sanders supporters @CornelWest and @RepKeithEllison will be involved with helping draft the Democratic Party’s National Platform,  —   Eugene Scott (@Eugene_Scott) May 23, 2016,  5:17: Bill Clinton slams Trump’s proposal to build a wall and says Hillary is the “bridge candidate. ” 5:15: Huerta says there were a lot of people of color and even some white people. She also gratuitously slams George W. Bush. 5:03: As news reports of the FBI’s investigation of McAuliffe hits, Bill Clinton is getting ready to speak in Stockton, California: As many as 500 people at public rally for Hillary Clinton. Waiting for Fmr Prz BillClinton to speak #stockton pic. twitter.  via,  —   ABC10 (@ABC10) May 23, 2016,  4:55: Top Clinton   and VA Gov. Terry McAuliffe reportedly under FBI investigation to determine if campaign contributions as governor violated law. Officials also reportedly “have scrutinized McAuliffe’s time as a board member of the Clinton Global Initiative. ” 4:50: Gary Johnson and Bill Weld desperately trying to get headlines: Gary Johnson stands by running mate Bill Weld’s comments comparing Trump’s policies to Kristallnacht just now on CNN,  —   Ben Jacobs (@Bencjacobs) May 23, 2016,  Gary Johnson ”absolutely” stands by his VP pick’s Holocaust reference to Trump’s plan https:  .  https:  .   —   CNN Politics (@CNNPolitics) May 23, 2016,  4:00: Sanders also speaks about legalizing marijuana and says, as he has done at other stops, that he would be for legalization if he were a CA resident. 3:40: In East L. A. Sanders hits his campaign themes about a rigged economy, raising the minimum wage, immigration reform, and the unemployment rate in minority communities (he doesn’t connect illegal immigration to this like he did before he started to run for president.) criminal justice reform and campaign finance reform. 3:35: Before introducing Sanders, Rosario Dawson says it’s hot under the sun today but “nothing like the bern we feel  …     in our hearts. ” 3:18: On MSNBC, Tim Canova, who is challenging Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz ( ) says the it is “myth” that Wasserman Schultz is popular because the district is heavily Dem. Canova, who has raised $250, 000 since Sanders’s endorsement, blasts Wasserman Schultz for supporting the   Partnership trade deal. He also blasts her for supporting payday lenders and says she is a “drug warrior” who is against medical marijuana who also takes money from private prison companies. Canova says people have charged Wasserman Schultz with “rigging” outcomes when asked if she has been neutral during this election cycle. Canova cites Cantor’s loss to Dave Brat and Donald Trump’s rise as proof an an   wave sweeping across the country. 3:16: East L. A. crowd at Sanders rally chanting “No More deportations” and “revolution!” 3:12: Sanders getting ready to address supporters in East Los Angeles: At the Bernie Sanders rally in East LA! pic. twitter.   —   Kenneth Mejia (@25forcongress) May 23, 2016,  3:08: Before his East L. A. rally, Sanders issues statement on DNC platform committee: “We believe that we will have the representation on the platform drafting committee to create a Democratic platform that reflects the views of millions of our supporters who want the party to address the needs of working families in this country and not just Wall Street, the drug companies, the fossil fuel industry and other powerful special interests. ” 2:58: Bill Clinton rails against using young people as a “political football” and speaks about needing “comprehensive immigration reform” with a path to citizenship. 2:44: Clinton says when Trump talks about “Making America Great Again,” Trump is speaking white   voters and he says the “way it used to be” wasn’t great for Latinos and other minorities. 2:43: Clinton, who ushered in NAFTA, says there is “a lot of anger and anxiety” because many people have not seen raises. 2:42: Bill Clinton says California sent him to the convention when he ran for president in 1992 with the wind at his back and asks voters to do the same for Hillary. 2:40: At Fresno State, Bill Clinton thanks Dolores Huerta for campaigning with him: Now speaking @billclinton @Fresno_State event  —   UFW   Dolores Huerta. #559vote pic. twitter.   —   John Ellis (@johnellis24) May 23, 2016,  2:31: Bill Clinton getting ready to stump for Hillary in Fresno, California: Former President Bill Clinton arrives at Fresno State! #TeamFox26 pic. twitter.   —   Erik Rosales (@eronews1) May 23, 2016,  2:25: Low enthusiasm: Clinton supporter and California labor leader acknowledges Clinton needs to do better with young Latino voters. 2:18: Clinton calls Trump a “bully” and says the only way to stand up to a bully is to “stand up together. ” 2:17: Clinton promises “comprehensive immigration reform” in her first 100 days in office. She says she will build on Obama’s executive actions and keep going to fix our broken immigration system. She says the “only thing standing between Donald Trump and the Oval Office is all of us. ” She is focusing more on immigration as Trump continues to trend up in national polls. This will be a “base election” and Trump’s supporters seem to be more enthusiastic about his candidacy than Clinton’s are about hers. 2:14: Clinton now hits Trump on immigration. She talks about the struggles of “mixed” families she has met on the trail. Clinton asks, “what kind of country would we be if we let Donald Trump rip our families apart. ” 2:11: Clinton blasts Trump for hiring “union busters” to break up organizing campaigns on his properties. Clinton says “Trump economics” is a recipe for lower wages. She says Trump will bankrupt America like he has bankrupted his companies. She asks how can anyone go bankrupt running a casino. 2:10: Clinton wants SEIU to help her to end the “epidemic of gun violence. ” 2:08: Clinton says we have to face up to the realities of “systemic racism” and dismantle the “   pipeline once and for all. ” She says we have a “moral obligation” to fight for justice and equity everywhere, which she says means ending the era of mass incarceration. She also praises SEIU for calling for “environmental justice” in all communities. 2:05: Clinton says   workers deserve a raise  …     she says dog trainers get paid more today. 1:59: She says “right to work is wrong for workers and wrong for America” and vows to protect collective bargaining rights. Clinton talks about fighting for paid family leave. 1:52: Clinton says the SEIU’s fights are her fights. Clinton says this election is about knocking down all barriers holding families back. She praises SEIU for leading the effort to raise the minimum wage. She want the federal minimum wage raised and thinks states should raise wages even higher. 1:48: At the SEIU convention in Detroit, Clinton starts her robotic speech by talking up the living wage. Clinton says she wishes that the presumptive Republican nominee would hear the stories she has heard and maybe then he wouldn’t say “wages are too high” in this country. Clinton says “America needs a raise. ”   1:20: Sen. Bob Corker ( ) meets with Trump at Trump Tower and says he has no idea if he is being considered as a potential running mate. Corker’s strong support of Sen. Marco Rubio’s ( ) Gang of Eight amnesty bill may be a significant hurdle to becoming Trump’s running mate. Corker, Senate Foreign Relations Committee chair, is asked if he’d serve in Trump White House. Says he doesn’t know if he’s being considered,  —   Damian Paletta (@damianpaletta) May 23, 2016,  Corker after Trump meeting in NYC: ”This was just a meeting between two people who didn’t know each other.”  —   Jim Acosta (@Acosta) May 23, 2016, 