Welcome to Breitbart News’s live updates of the 2016 election.  All times eastern.   All times eastern. 9:50: Clinton campaign thinks Trumps can’t stand a chance against her stable of surrogates. But Trump has shown he can cut through the media filter like nobody else this election cycle: Now imagine them all  —   plus Pres Clinton  FLOTUS  —   on trail at same time. Trump’s one man band doesn’t stand chance https:  .   —   Brian Fallon (@brianefallon) June 10, 2016,  9:23: Warren says she has not been vetted to be Clinton’s running mate. But she says she can be   : Warren: I could be   #Maddow https:  .   —   Maddow Blog (@MaddowBlog) June 10, 2016,  9:23: Warren says she has not been vetted to be Clinton’s running mate. 9:08: On MSNBC, Sen. Warren says “I’m ready to get in this fight” and work her heart out to make sure Hillary Clinton wins and Donald Clinton doesn’t get close to the White House. 8:25: Biden: Trump’s comments about Judge Curiel “racist. ” Biden says it’s not the “racism” that frightens him but the “potential impact on the court. ” He says some of his former colleagues assail Trump’s attacks on the judiciary but refuse to confirm Judge Garland so Trump could appoint judges if he wins. 8:18: Joe Biden now addressing the   American Constitutional Society. He slams Trump for attacking Judge Curiel for calling a federal judge a “hater” and a “total disgrace. ” He says Trump cannot be trusted to respect the independence of the judiciary. Biden says Trump may defy the courts if it ruled against him re: government’s abuse of power. He says Trump’s conduct is “pernicious” and “unprecedented. ” He says Trump’s conduct is “reprehensible. ” Never mind Obama’s shredding of the Constitution to grant executive amnesty. Biden introduced as author of Violence Against Women Act pic. twitter.   —   Ari Melber MSNBC (@AriMelber) June 10, 2016,  7:47: Mainstream media putting on their Dem. jerseys and gushing over Warren’s attacks on Trump, as if she is saying thing they wish they could say on air (but they have to at least act like they are not biased). 7:41: Warren also calls Trump a “wannabe tyrant” and says we will not let Trump and his allies destroy the rule of law in America. 7:30: Warren calls Trump a “  racist bully” for picking on Judge Curiel. She defends Judge Curiel and emphasizes that he was born in Indiana and went to Indiana University. She asks, “what kind of a man is Donald Trump?” She says Trump should be “ashamed” of himself. “Ashamed for using the megaphone of a presidential campaign for attacking a judge’s character and integrity simply because you think you have a   right to steal people’s money and get away with it. ” Warren says Trump shames himself and this great country. She says Trump is a “loud” and “nasty”   “fraud” who has never risked anything for anybody and only serves himself. Warren now mocks Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and impersonates him. 7:27: Warren says Trump is a guy who inherited a fortune and rolled it along by “cheating people. ” Warren says “when that’s your business model, sooner or later, you’re going to run into legal trouble. ” She is using her legal address to slam Trump just like Clinton used her foreign policy speech to attack Trump. She’s now hitting Trump on Trump University. 7:15: At the American Constitution Society, Sen. Elizabeth Warren ( ) first slams top Trump supporter Sen. Jeff Sessions ( ) for opposing some of Obama’s judicial appointees because of their strong ties to the ACLU. 7:10: At his D. C. rally hours after Obama endorsed Clinton, Sanders thanks Ben Jealous and Cornell West for attending his event. He thanks the crowd for being a part of the “political revolution. ” Crowd chanting “thank you, Bernie!” Sanders says the punditry didn’t think his campaign would go very far. But neither did he. Sanders says he hopes we’ll be talking about the “state” of Washington, D. C. the next time he comes to D. C. 7:06: “Iconic” photo may have backfired on Clinton: Clinton BlackBerry photo led to State official’s query about email account https:  .  | AP Photo pic. twitter.   —   POLITICO (@politico) June 9, 2016,  6:55: Biden, Warren getting ready to blast Trump while addressing   group: Waiting for Biden and Warren to address the annual @acslaw convention. Good timing for these particular keynotes  …      —   Irin Carmon (@irin) June 9, 2016,  6:47: Good numbers for Trump in what will be a mobilization election like 2004: National GE, Among those who are “extremely” or “very” interested in the election: Trump 45% Clinton 41%@FoxNews pic. twitter.   —   PoliticalPolls (@PpollingNumbers) June 9, 2016,  6:45: Biden praises Sanders: . @VP piles on  —   compliments @BernieSanders and his campaign pic. twitter.   —   MaryAlice Parks (@maryaliceparks) June 9, 2016,  Meanwhile, @BernieSanders has been at @VP Biden’s house for a little under an hour now. pic. twitter.   —   Danny Freeman (@DannyEFreeman) June 9, 2016,  6:40: Mainstream media   begins: Network evening newscasts leading    with Obama’s endorsement of @HillaryClinton.  —   Mark Knoller (@markknoller) June 9, 2016,  6:18: RNC calls Warren a “sellout” for endorsing Clinton: By endorsing Hillary Clinton, Elizabeth Warren has shown herself to be a sellout. Whether it’s the Wall Street speech transcripts she refuses to release, her ties to the fossil fuel industry, or coziness with big banks, Hillary Clinton represents everything Elizabeth Warren supposedly stands against. 6:15: Trump now slightly trails Clinton in Fox News poll: Fox Poll: @HillaryClinton vs. @realDonaldTrump. #SpecialReport pic. twitter.   —   Fox News (@FoxNews) June 9, 2016,  6:03: Big crowd for Sanders’s D. C. rally: #Clinton is the presumptive nominee, endorsed by #Obama today but tonight a big crowd for #Sanders in #WashingtonDC pic. twitter.   —   Sonia Dridi (@Sonia_Dridi) June 9, 2016,  5:07: New York Times’s Upshot analysis: “There Are More White Voters Than People Think. That’s Good News for Trump. ” One of the biggest reasons Donald Trump is considered to be a long shot to win the presidency is the diversity of the country. As Joe Scarborough of MSNBC put it, “There are not enough white voters in America for Donald Trump to win while getting routed among minorities. ” But a growing body of evidence suggests that there is still a path, albeit a narrow one, for Mr. Trump to win without gains among nonwhite voters. New analysis by The Upshot shows that millions more white, older   voters went to the polls in 2012 than was found by exit polls on Election Day. This raises the prospect that Mr. Trump has a larger pool of potential voters than generally believed. The wider path may help explain why Mr. Trump is competitive in early general election surveys against Hillary Clinton, 4:43: MSNBC reporting that Sen. Elizabeth Warren ( ) will endorse Clinton on Rachel Maddow’s show tonight. 4:41: Trump fires back, hitting Clinton’s bureaucracy and email scandal. Trump’s Twitter account is his rapid response operation: How long did it take your staff of 823 people to think that up —  and where are your 33, 000 emails that you deleted? https:  .   —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 9, 2016,  4:25: Sanders now meeting with Biden: Sanders and his wife Jane walked on grounds at Naval Observatory when they first arrived now senator inside for meeting with Biden,  —   MaryAlice Parks (@maryaliceparks) June 9, 2016,  3:48: Warren to endorse Clinton tonight? Tonight, watch for @elizabethforma to endorse @HillaryClinton as well, completing the circle of   Democrats uniting today.  —   Jeff Zeleny (@jeffzeleny) June 9, 2016,  3:42: Trump: “change is long overdue in the Palestinian territories. ” 3:22: RNC’s chief strategist with the perfect response: Like with a cloth?   https:  .   —   Sean Spicer (@seanspicer) June 9, 2016,  3:20: Chris Matthews feeling the thrill: . @POTUS today showed the power of political attack. His striking endorsement of @HillaryClinton shows that he will be setting the pace.  —   Chris Matthews (@hardball_chris) June 9, 2016,  3:15: When CNN’s Wolf Blitzer asks Bakari Sellers whether black voters will turn out in the same numbers for Clinton as Obama, he doesn’t give an enthusiastic and confident “yes. ” He says   voters are not monolithic and there will be “extremely high turnout. ” He also says Trump is the best “turnout mechanism. ” [Answer says it all. Black voters more important in this election cycle than the Latino voters whom the media obsess about daily.] 3:10: O’Malley hasn’t realized yet that nobody seems to care about his endorsement: Martin O’Malley also throwing his support behind Clinton today: ”The voters have spoken, it is time now to unite our Party.”  —   Ryan Struyk (@ryanstruyk) June 9, 2016,  3:05: Reid thinks Sanders has accepted the fact that Clinton is the Dem. nominee: Reid: ”I didn’t hear a single word about [Sanders] wanting to change the fact that she’s the nominee. I think he’s accepted that.” @rollcall,  —   Bridget Bowman (@bridgetbhc) June 9, 2016,  2:59: White House press secretary Earnest claims there is no conflict of interest when asked about Obama endorsing Clinton while she is under FBI investigation over her email scandal. 2:55: How much influence will Sanders have going forward? Reid says Sanders will come to the Democratic caucus mtg next Tuesday @rollcall @CQnow pic. twitter.   —   Bridget Bowman (@bridgetbhc) June 9, 2016,  2:49: Josh Earnest punts when April Ryan asked if the White House is concerned that Trump may attract Dem. voters on trade. Earnest says Trump, Sanders, and Clinton have a different position on the   Partnership than Obama. 2:45: How thrilled is Michelle Obama about Clinton’s nomination? Josh Earnest hints Michelle Obama will have a chance to talk about Hillary endorsement during Oprah Winfrey State Of Woman summit next week,  —   Charlie Spiering (@charliespiering) June 9, 2016,  2:36: Awkward. Sanders silent when asked about Obama’s endorsement of Clinton: ”Senator Sanders, what is your reaction to the president endorsing Hillary Clinton today?” Sanders: (silence) pic. twitter.   —   Sara Yasin (@missyasin) June 9, 2016,  2:30: Trump, Clinton fight on Twitter: Delete your account. https:  .   —   Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) June 9, 2016,  Obama just endorsed Crooked Hillary. He wants four more years of Obama —  but nobody else does!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 9, 2016,  2:25: White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest says Obama complimented Sanders on his campaign. He says it was a “friendly conversation” that was focused on the future. Earnest says it is important to Obama “personally” that Clinton wins the general election. Earnest says Obama and Sanders discussed the   future of the Dem. party. Earnest says Sanders succeeded because he was able to inspire a lot of young Dems and independents. 2:16: Clinton repeating carefully crafted talking points to mainstream media organizations: Hillary Clinton told @tamarakeithNPR she’s “thrilled” with Obama’s endorsement pic. twitter.   —   NPR Politics (@nprpolitics) June 9, 2016,  2:14: On CNN, Jeff Zeleny says Sanders told him that he didn’t expect to do this well against Clinton. Zeleny also says defeating Trump, who was one of the most prominent “birthers,” is “personal” for Obama. [Why run for president if you are not   to win?] 2:02: Clinton “fired up and ready to go. ” Honored to have you with me, @POTUS. I’m fired up and ready to go!    —   Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) June 9, 2016,  2:00: Obama to campaign for Clinton in Green Bay, Wisconsin the day after D. C. primary: Obama will waste no time getting on the trail: The president will campaign with @HillaryClinton in Green Bay, Wisconsin on Wednesday.  —   Colleen Nelson (@ColleenMNelson) June 9, 2016,  1:53: Clinton touts Obama endorsement. Obama congratulates Clinton on “making history” as the presumptive Democratic nominee. Obama says he’s “fired up” to campaign for Clinton. But it seems like he’s more “fired up” to campaign against Trump than for Clinton, President Obama endorses Hillary: ”I don’t think there’s ever been someone so qualified to hold this office.” https:  .   —   Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) June 9, 2016,  1:52: Obama to endorse Clinton via video:   1:50:   group launches “Trump Lies” website:   super PAC ”Correct the Record” just launched a new website: https:  .   —   Amy Chozick (@amychozick) June 9, 2016,  1:45: Howard Dean worries Sanders could be the next Ralph Nader who helps elect Trump. 1:30: Breitbart’s Joel Pollak on “racism” double standards: In ’08 @HillaryClinton said ”  Americans, white Americans” oppose Obama. More racist than any Trump gaffe https:  .   —   Joel Pollak (@joelpollak) June 9, 2016,  If you didn’t condemn Joe Biden for saying racist things about Barack Obama but you think Trump is racist then you’re probably a journalist.  —   Joel Pollak (@joelpollak) June 9, 2016,  1:26: Paul Ryan says Trump has an “evenhanded temperament” in person. Were Republicans proud of the losing campaigns run in past election cycles? . @SpeakerRyan: Trump has “a ways to go” to give us a campaign we can all be proud of https:  .   —   MSNBC (@MSNBC) June 9, 2016,  1:15: The usual suspects —  Lindsey Graham, Paul Ryan, Ana Navarro, Mitch McConnell —  featured in   Priorities USA Super PAC’s new ad about Trump’s “racist” statement about Judge Curiel: 1:05: Haley Barbour says he’ll support Trump over Clinton. Haley Barbour: ”When the choice is between @HillaryClinton and @realDonaldTrump, I’m for Donald Trump every time.” pic. twitter.   —   FOX Business (@FoxBusiness) June 9, 2016,  12:45: Sanders’s lone supporter in the Senate touting Warren as potential Clinton running mate: Merkley on Warren veep stakes: ”She’d be a great Vice President and would be terrific in terms of having a spokesperson” for Dem grassroots,  —   Burgess Everett (@burgessev) June 9, 2016,  12:40: Sanders doesn’t take questions from the press, but he says he looks forward to meeting with Clinton to strategize on how to defeat Trump. 12:37: Sanders emphasizes that he will compete in the D. C. primary. He says he is strongly in favor of D. C. statehood. 12:34: After meeting with Obama, Sanders says veterans and senior citizens should not struggle to put food on the table in the wealthiest country in the world. He talks about the how many in minority and rural communities have life expectancies lower than those in the Third World. He talks about the crumbling infrastructure while millions of workers are ready to build. Sanders says Trump would be a “disaster” as President of the United States. Sanders says Trump has made “bigotry and prejudice” the cornerstones of his campaign. [Sanders describes a crumbling America under Obama’s presidency. He will make it tougher for   to claim that Trump is “pessimistic” about America, especially when Trump is vowing to turn things around.] Millions of senior citizens, disabled vets, shouldn’t be ”struggling,” @BernieSanders says: https:  .  https:  .   —   CBS News (@CBSNews) June 9, 2016,  [They are struggling after eight years of Obama.] Sanders opens statement to the press assembled at the WH by thanking Obama and Biden for ”their degree of impartiality,” in the Dem primary.  —   DJ Judd (@juddzeez) June 9, 2016,  12:30: Warren will call Trump “a loud, nasty,   fraud” while addressing the   American Constitution Society. 12:25: Americans will trust Trump’s blunt talk on   security than the House GOP’s gobbledygook: House Republicans unveil national security blueprint as GOP struggles with Trump’s proposals https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   This Week (@ThisWeekABC) June 9, 2016,  12:20: Scarborough says Trump’s insecurities have always driven him. You can say the same thing about Scarborough, who also wants to be loved by the media and political elite. 12:16: Kasich wants to remain in the spotlight: ”This is not a game for me.” https:  .   —   Breitbart News (@BreitbartNews) June 9, 2016,  Kasich, whose top political consultant worked on McCain’s presidential campaigns, fundraising for McCain: INBOX: Kasich fundraising email for McCain pic. twitter.   —   Ali Vitali (@alivitali) June 9, 2016,  12:11: Sanders expected to meet the press after meeting with President Obama: Campaign says @BernieSanders’ plan is still to come out and talk to press here after the meeting pic. twitter.   —   MaryAlice Parks (@maryaliceparks) June 9, 2016,  12:10: Tony Lee: Could there be a   effect in the general election that the mainstream media are conveniently ignoring? A lot of   minorities go to WWE rasslin’ matches with   whites and Trump could appeal to a portion of them. Positive sentiment among Latino voters for Trump is on the rise despite the attempts of   Latino leaders to demonize him on a daily basis with the help of the    mainstream press. 12:05: Trump hires Eric Cantor’s pollster. Does he have anybody on staff who can scout for some advisers who get it? 12:01: Sanders and Obama meeting at the White House. Obama will reportedly try to get Sanders to accept Clinton as the party’s nominee. White House aides say President Obama will use today’s meeting to convince Sanders to accept Clinton as the nominee https:  .   —   Marshall Cohen (@Marshall_Cohen) June 9, 2016,  Pres. Obama walks with Bernie Sanders on way to the Oval Office for meeting. https:  . :  .   —   ABC News (@ABC) June 9, 2016, 