Pop star Miley Cyrus has vowed to leave the country if Republican presidential frontrunner Donald Trump wins the election. [In a series of scathing Instagram posts, the    Dead Petz singer called Trump a “f***ing nightmare” who makes her “vom. ”   Donald Trump is a fucking nightmare! A photo posted by Miley Cyrus (@mileycyrus) on Feb 29, 2016 at 12:35pm PST,   gonna vom   move out da country. #aintapartyindausaanymo, A photo posted by Miley Cyrus (@mileycyrus) on Mar 1, 2016 at 6:32pm PST,  In a   on Wednesday, Cyrus posted a composite photo of Trump, young hunter Kendall Jones and herself with a “tear rolling down” her cheek.  Yes . That is a tear rolling down my cheek dripping off the end of my nose  …    .. This makes me so unbelievable scared and sad  …    . Not only for our country but for animals that I love more than anything in this world  …    . My heart is broken into a 100000 pieces   …    .. I think I may vomit   …    . That picture on the right is so disturbing  …    . YOU are not destiny! It is not your job to decide when a living things life is over   …    .  YOU DT ARE NOT GOD NO MATTER HOW MUCH YOU THINK YOU ARE! !! ( if he doesn’t think he is ”God” he thinks he is the fucking chosen one or some shit! We’re all just fucking jam between his rich ass toes! Honestly fuck this shit I am moving if this is my president! I don’t say things I don’t mean! ) A photo posted by Miley Cyrus (@mileycyrus) on Mar 2, 2016 at 6:07am PST,  This makes me so unbelievable scared and sad,” Cyrus wrote. “Not only for our country but for animals that I love more than anything in this world  …    . My heart is broken into a 100000 pieces   …    .. I think I may vomit. ” “YOU DT ARE NOT GOD NO MATTER HOW MUCH YOU THINK YOU ARE! !!” the singer added, “( if he doesn’t think he is “God” he thinks he is the f***ing chosen one or some sh*t! We’re all just f***ing jam between his rich ass toes! Honestly f**k this sh*t I am moving if this is my president! I don’t say things I don’t mean! )” Of course, Cyrus isn’t the only celebrity who has vowed to pack their bags if Trump wins the election, or even the nomination. At an event in Washington, D. C. last week, the Rev. Al Sharpton said he was “reserving [his] ticket to get out of here if he wins. ” “Only because he’d probably have me deported anyhow,” Sharpton added, according to the Huffington Post. Meanwhile, The View‘s Whoopi Goldberg recently suggested that “maybe it’s time for me to move” should Trump win, and of course, her fellow host   vowed to move to Canada “if any Republican gets nominated. ” On Monday, Trump’s son Donald Trump Jr. offered to pay the airfare for any celebrity who would flee in the event of his father’s presidency. “I’ll buy them airfare,” he said in an interview with Fox and Friends. “Those are endorsements for Trump. ”  