Tuesday in Rancho Mirage, CA, at the Association of Southeast Asian Nations Summit news conference, when asked about Republican presidential front runner Donald Trump potentiality winning, President Barack Obama said he believes Trump will not be the next president.  Obama said, “I’ll leave it to you to speculate on how this whole race is going to go. I continue to believe that Mr. Trump will not be president. And the reason is because I have a lot of faith in the American people. And I think they recognize that being president is a serious job. It’s not hosting a talk show or a reality show. It’s not promotion. It’s not marketing. It’s hard. And a lot of people count on us getting it right. And it’s not a matter of pandering and doing whatever will get you in the news on a given day. And sometimes it requires you making hard decisions, even when people don’t like it. And doing things that are unpopular. And standing up for people who are vulnerable, but don’t have some powerful political constituency. And it requires being able to work with leaders around the world in a way that reflects the importance of the office. And it gives people confidence that you know the facts, and you know their names, and you know where they are on a map, and you know something about their history. And you’re not just going to play for the crowd back home, because they have their own crowds back home. And you’re trying to solve problems. And so during primaries, people vent and they express themselves and if it seems like entertainment, and oftentimes it’s reported just like entertainment. But as you get closer, the reality has a way of  intruding, and these are the folks I have faith in. Because they’re ultimately going to say, whoever is standing where I’m standing right now has the nuclear codes with them and can order    into a firefight and has to make sure that the banking system doesn’t collapse and is often responsible for not just the United States of America, but 20 other countries that are having big problems or are falling apart and will be looking for us to do something. And the American people are pretty sensible. And I think they’ll make a sensible choice in the end. All right? Thanks, everybody. ” Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNEN,  