Kentucky Gov. Matt Bevin signed a bill into law that strengthens the state’s informed consent law prior to abortion and requires women to have a    or live   medical consultation about the procedure at least 24 hours prior to an abortion. [Bevin signed the bill into law  —   his first bill since being elected  —   just one day after the state Senate gave its final approval. It will take effect in July.  Bevin said he would sign the measure again ceremonially at a    rally at the Capitol on February 11, reports the Lexington  . “This is an extraordinary day, and I’m grateful to you,” said the   governor to state Sen. Julie Raque Adams (R) the sponsor of the legislation. National director of Priests for Life Father Frank Pavone praised Bevin for taking quick action in signing the bill that strengthens the state’s informed consent for abortion law. “Kentucky is blessed to have a governor who leads by serving,” said Pavone in a statement. “Governor Bevin’s immediate action to sign the new informed consent for abortion law is a great act of service not only to pregnant mothers, but also the state as a whole. ” “The more women know about abortion and its alternatives, the more women will choose life,” he added. “Hopefully, the Kentucky legislature will deliver more   legislation to Governor Bevin. His leadership is an encouragement to all Americans who seek a culture of life. ” Last week Bevin made headlines when he announced the Louisville Planned Parenthood had been illegally performing abortions at its new location. The governor said the clinic’s license was never approved to perform abortions. “They are unlicensed,” he said. “They are doing it knowingly and they are going to be brought to justice on this front. ” Planned Parenthood of Indiana and Kentucky, however, denied it had been performing illegal abortions. A state official said Planned Parenthood failed to provide adequate written agreements with a hospital and ambulance service  —   safety requirements in the event a woman undergoing abortion develops complications. Planned Parenthood reportedly responded by saying it would provide the agreements “as soon as possible. ” The Kentucky Senate also took up and approved a bill this week that would prohibit the use of any state   dollars for abortion services. Senate President Robert Stivers (R) said that while no such state money is currently being used for abortion services, the Senate wanted to go on record with the measure.