In a rare New York City performance Friday night, comedian Dave Chappelle defended Donald Trump and ripped Hillary Clinton, according to the Observer. [Chappell apparently criticized how the media “twisted” what Trump said when he made lewd remarks about grabbing women in a    conversation in 2005 with former Access Hollywood anchor Billy Bush.  “Sexual assault? It wasn’t. He said, ‘And when you’re a star, they let you do it.’ That phrase implies consent,” Chappelle reportedly said. “I just don’t like the way the media twisted that whole thing. Nobody questioned it. ” The    comic praised Trump’s performance during the second presidential debate, specifically how he handled the harsh line of questions from moderators Anderson Cooper and Martha Raddatz. “Something about this was backward. A gay white man and a white woman asking a   how he knows the system is rigged and insisting it’s not. Does that sound right to you?” Chappelle reportedly asked the crowd at the famous Cutting Room comedy club. “It didn’t seem right to me. And here’s how you know Trump is the most gangsta candidate ever. They asked him how he knows the system is rigged and he said, ‘Because I take advantage of it. ’” “He may as well have flashed his membership card for the Illuminati right then,” Chappelle joked. The former Chappelle’s Show star said Clinton’s “not right” and compared voting for her to pursuing sex with actress Halle Berry after she had farted in his face. “I’m still going to go for it,” Chappelle reportedly said. “But I wish she hadn’t done that thing. ” Chappelle said Clinton is “going to be on a coin someday. And her behavior has not been  . ” “She’s not right and we all know she’s not right,” he added. Chappelle also reportedly lashed out against gay and transexual activists comparing their civil rights plight to racism. “They should not be having that conversation in front of black people,” the comic said. “You go ahead and feel something about your rights. But if you’re putting sexism and homophobia and transphobia in front of racism, you should be ashamed of yourself. ” Chappelle did, however, criticize North Carolina lawmakers for a law mandating people use public restrooms according to the sex stated on their birth certificates. “If you need to show your birth certificate to take a dump at a   in North Carolina, that’s insane. ” Chappelle said, adding, however, that he doesn’t want “a woman with a dick” using the next bathroom stall. YouTube is devoid of footage of Chappelle’s critically acclaimed standup routines, because the comic confiscates cameras and cell phones at the door. In August, Chappelle told a crowd in the same New York City club that “Black Lives Matter is a terrible slogan. ” Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson