Friday in a speech in Dimondale, MI, Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump took aim at his opponent Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton for what he categorized as Clinton putting the needs of refugees ahead of those in the United States, in particular unemployed   youth.  Partial transcript as follows: By contrast, the one thing every item in Hillary Clinton’s agenda has in common is that it takes jobs and opportunities from   workers. Her support for open borders. Her fierce opposition to school choice. Her plan to massively raise taxes on small businesses. Her opposition to American energy. And her record of giving our jobs away to other countries. America must reject the bigotry of Hillary Clinton who sees communities of color only as votes, not as human beings worthy of a better future. Hillary Clinton would rather provide a job to a refugee from overseas than to give that job to unemployed   youth in cities like Detroit who have become refugees in their own country. It is time to get our country back to work, and that includes an   effort to help young   get the   jobs they deserve. Hillary Clinton’s plan would bring in an estimated 620, 000 refugees in her first term  —   at a lifetime benefit cost of some $400 billion dollars, according to the U. S. Senate Immigration Subcommittee. She wants to be America’s Angela Merkel. By the way, for the price of supporting 1 refugee in the United States, we could support 12 in a safe zone in the Middle East. The improved refugee screening standards I have proposed will save countless billions of dollars. We will invest a portion of the money saved in a jobs program for inner city youth. The   community has given so much to this country. They’ve fought and died in every war since the Revolution. They’ve lifted up the conscience of our nation in the long march for Civil Rights. They’ve sacrificed so much for the national good. Yet, nearly 4 in 10   children still live in poverty, and 58% of young   are not working. We must do better as a country. I refuse to believe that the future must be like the past. In a Trump Administration, all workers  —   of all colors  —   will get priority for jobs in their own country. I want higher wages for   for   for all Americans. Follow Jeff Poor on Twitter @jeff_poor