Some Gmail users have reported seeing their subscribed Trump campaign emails end up in their spam box, resulting in people missing fundraising calls and campaign information. [“I found Emails from both Trump, and his son in Spam,” claimed one Trump supporter in an email to the conservative Gateway Pundit blog. “As a supporter, subscribed, donated, bought retail from Trump  …     so certain I am on all lists for contacting. I have received oodles of Email, until this month (June). ”  The supporter attached an photo, showing a Trump campaign fundraising letter in the spam inbox, along with a note from Google, stating, “Why is this message in Spam? It’s similar to messages that were detected by our spam filters. ” Other Gmail users on Twitter also claimed to have had their emails hidden. Hadn’t received emails from Trump campaign for a while. Checked my Junk Folder. Google’s reprogrammed them as spam. pic. twitter.   —   Trump Rioter (@Early__May) June 22, 2016,  @DRUDGE_REPORT Google is trying to filter all Trump fundraising emails straight to spam! pic. twitter.   —   James Russles III (@JamesRusseler) June 23, 2016,  @DanaPerino Received a Trump solicitation early this AM.  Very interesting that GMail slid this directly into SPAM. pic. twitter.   —   Younicycle (@younicycle) June 22, 2016,  Earlier this month, Breitbart reported that Google was intentionally failing to suggest or autocomplete the term “crooked Hillary” when entered into their search engine, despite being one of the most searched terms for the Democratic  . Republican presumptive nominee Donald Trump’s other nicknames for opponents “Lying Ted” and “Little Marco” both appeared normally as suggested terms on the search engine. On Wednesday, it was also reported that the   game “Hilliar Clinton” had been removed from the Google Play Store, despite violent   game “Punch the Trump” remaining on the platform. At a Moscow journalism forum earlier this month, Wikileaks founder Julian Assange claimed Google to be “directly engaged in Hillary Clinton’s campaign,” adding that should Clinton be elected, “those people in Google, like Jared Cohen, will be placed into positions around the new Clinton presidency”. Charlie Nash is a reporter for Breitbart Tech and former editor of the Squid Magazine. You can follow him on Twitter @MrNashington or like his page at Facebook.