After my favorite candy came out against Daddy, I’ve realized it is time for a sugary divorce. I am destined to break my diet on a regular basis with another confection  —   Sour Skittles are dead to me. [Skittles became a headline today. That may sound bizarre, but then again, last week’s election headlines were dominated by a cartoon frog.  This is a very personal issue, for as my diehard fans (are there other types?) know, Sour Skittles are my candy of choice. It all started when Donald Trump Jr. tweeted a meme that is a variation on a bog standard comment, often with MM’s in place of skittles. This image says it all. Let’s end the politically correct agenda that doesn’t put America first. #trump2016 pic. twitter.   —   Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) September 19, 2016,  Mars, Inc quickly replied: pic. twitter.   —   Mars, Incorporated (@MarsGlobal) September 20, 2016,  This isn’t the first time Skittles has waded in to political debate. In June of this year they put out all white skittles in honor of LGBT pride week in London.  Their comment on the product was sickeningly, cloyingly sweet, even for a candy company. This latest development is in line with their previous   corporate progressivism, but it also exposes one of the left’s most egregious double standards. They’ve decided to support Muslims: the people who want to kill gays, or at the very least make homosexuality illegal. How does that square with their hip   posturing back in June? Perhaps they can still market this to gays  —   taste the rainbow, as you plummet off the roof of a building! Close observers of cultural politics will remember that feminists used a similar image, of MMs, at the height of the bogus “rape culture” panic. Their point was that women should be prejudiced against all men because a few of them are rapists. If I opposed that argument, some may ask, how can I support Donald Trump Jr’s? The difference, of course, is that only a tiny number of western men are rapists, while countless millions of Muslims want to kill or outlaw gays.  If you think I’m exaggerating, watch these nice refugees in Minnesota, and listen to their comments on gays. Somali Muslims harass an American citizen walking on the streets of Minnesota. @PRyan brought these ”refugees” in. pic. twitter.   —   Mike Cernovich (@Cernovich) September 18, 2016,  For me, the hypocrisy is blatant and will make my beloved Sour Skittles too sour even for me. Sorry Mars, but I prefer my candy   compliant. I plan to adopt a new official candy in the near future. One senior colleague suggested Sour Patch Kids as a replacement. One good thing about those is they come in a big bag so I don’t have to pull a Chris Christie and refill my bag like I do with Skittles. (My personal trainer isn’t reading this is he?) If you have suggestions for a replacement candy, please send them to me. I am anticipating calls from candy company CEO’s interested in producing MILO candy. Hopefully, like me, they will be as delicious as they are beautiful. Follow Milo Yiannopoulos (@Nero) on Facebook, Instagram and Snapchat. Hear him every Friday on The Milo Yiannopoulos Show. Write to Milo at milo@breitbart. com.