A San Antonio woman pleaded guilty to federal charges involving a cash for green card scheme. The woman now faces up to 20 years in prison for each of the 8 counts in the case. [Yvette Marie Rodriguez, 41, pleaded guilty to a scheme where she professed to be an immigration official who could provide immigration documents to illegal aliens, according to information provided to Breitbart Texas by the U. S. Attorney’s Office in San Antonio.  Rodriguez admitted to the Western District of Texas court that she received over $30, 000 from illegal aliens over a nearly   period beginning in January 2011. These illegal aliens expressed interest in paying for “special assistance in obtaining Permanent Residency and United States Citizenship papers,” the statement revealed. Clients of Rodriguez were charged up to $6, 000 each for her services. The illegal aliens never received the requested documents because the woman was never in a position to obtain the documents. Court records obtained by Breitbart Texas reveal the woman had her clients use Western Union MoneyGrams to wire the fees to her. She also used Wells Fargo Bank to process the funds. She would have the clients provide birth certificates, passports, documents containing their addresses, and other personal information. Those documents were provided through the Federal Express mail or in person. In addition to the potential prison sentences that could total 160 years, the government will also seize cash and property to recover the $30, 788. 50 Rodriguez obtained from the clients. The San Antonio woman remains out of jail on bond pending the outcome of a sentencing hearing. That hearing is scheduled for August 3, 2106. The case was presidend over by United States District Judge Xavier Rodriguez. Assistant United States Attorney Greg Surovic is prosecuting this case on behalf of the Government. Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas and is a member of the original Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX.