The Open Society Foundations, through it’s “Xen fund” has bragged about being the only group to fund reports and advocacy accusing European police of discrimination toward minority groups. [A document entitled “  Initiative Portfolio Review  —   Ethnic Profiling in Europe” shows a coordinated effort to fund reports and advocacy to accuse European Police of discriminatory behaviour. This follows revelations in the United States that Mr. Soros and his foundation have been actively funding groups who are aggressive toward police, accusing them of discriminatory behavior toward minorities.  “To date only OSF is willing to fund controversial documentation and advocacy that accuses European police of discriminatory practices,” the report brags and details how through the Fund to Counter Xenophobia (Xen Fund) and the Justice Initiative (JI) the foundation has spent in excess of 1. 7 million dollars on creating reports and funding advocacy groups who’s purpose is to undermine the reputation of the police and accuse them of discrimination. In the UK the foundation claimed that a study they had commissioned in the wake of the 2011 Tottenham riots had led to “galvanized political action by the government” along with their funding of the StopWatch campaign. The StopWatch campaign pushed for a decrease in the number of stop and search made by police. Sir Bernard   commissioner of the Metropolitan police claimed last October  that the decrease in stop and search led to a higher number of knife crimes in London. Sir   was rebuked by now Prime Minister Teresa May who said the reaction was “false” and “ . ” Ms. May went on to take a page from the Open Society Foundations and claim the police were “too white” and didn’t look enough like the communities they operate in. The push for more minorities in police forces is one of the pillars of Open Society’s ethnic profiling campaign.   According to the document France has been a particularly hard case to push tensions between police and minority groups. “France is a particularly challenging country in which to develop   campaigns on   or civil rights,” the foundation writes and adds, “The more established NGOs, especially those on the left, hold tightly to the French universalistic Republican model’s deeply ambivalent attitude toward ethnic or racial identities. ” The Xen Fund and the Justice Initiative spent hundreds of thousand of dollars between 2011 and 2014 in France, the Netherlands, Spain and the United Kingdom. While the Black Lives Matter movement originated in the United States, the work of the Open Society foundation to lay a groundwork narrative of racial discrimination by police could explain the movements growth in European countries. In the UK the group has brought traffic to a standstill at Heathrow airport causing chaos at one of the worlds busiest travel hubs. BLM has also called for the boycott of American businesses at a protest outside the U. S. embassy last month. The boycott was compared to the Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions (BDS) movement against Israel by one of the spokesmen at the event.