Lucian Wintrich’s   art show has found a new location in Chelsea, New York City, after their previous venue, The Boiler, forced them out. [Breitbart News can reveal that the show will now be held at 132 West 18th Street, Chelsea, NYC. Tickets are still available, and can be purchased via IndieGoGo.   Wintrich told Breitbart News that it is “a great space in a prime location. ” It will feature exhibits by Breitbart senior editor Milo Yiannopoulos, Martin Shkreli, James O’Keefe, Gavin McInnes and more, with the highlight being Wintrich’s photoseries of young, gay, male Trump supporters, Twinks4Trump. This is only the latest chapter in a series of dramatic events involving Wintrich’s   show. Before being kicked out of the Pierogi Art Gallery owned venue, the   Joe Amrhein threatened to send all funds paid to the Clinton campaign. Amrhein also claimed that he thought the event was satirical, despite Wintrich providing Breitbart News with texts that show him marking down the event as “Trump Gallery Show” on paper. The venue realtor, Sam Reznitsky, has also threatened to sue Wintrich and “bankrupt” him in the lawsuit. #DaddyWillSaveUs, as it is officially known, has also been targeted by journalists and protesters alike. Earlier in the week, Jamie Peck, a writer for the culture and politics blog, Death and Taxes, sent an email to approximately 200 other journalists demanding that they create a media blackout and ignore the “  clowns” who set up the show. Peck has previously described Twinks4Trump, as “neofascist. ” Mic, the   news and commentary site, also sabotaged a gay military fundraiser at the event. Jack Smith IV, a writer at Mic, persuaded the American Military Partners Association to reject Wintrich’s offer to donate 30% of the proceeds from #DaddyWillSaveUs to the “leading support network for families of LGBTQ veterans. ” Protests were also planned to disrupt the event itself.  Gayletter, a gay magazine based out of New York, included a demand in their latest email to the subscribers to boycott and protest outside the planned location, in order to “hopefully close down the event. ” A Facebook event was also set up entitled “Queer Love Against Trump’s Hate” which argued that the “bigotry and fascism” of the art exhibition must be stopped. Jack Hadfield is a student at the University of Warwick and a regular contributor to Breitbart Tech. You can follow him on Twitter @ToryBastard_ or email him at jack@yiannopoulos. net.