The Blaze founder Glenn Beck took to his Facebook page last Saturday to urge his followers to abandon support of Republican nominee Donald Trump, declaring that if such an action results in the election of Hillary Clinton, “so be it” because “[a]t least it is a moral, ethical choice. ”[Beck’s latest missive was in response to the release of an      tape of Trump saying lewd things about women.  “If the consequence of standing against Trump and for principles is indeed the election of Hillary Clinton, so be it. At least it is a moral, ethical choice,” Beck wrote. The following is Beck’s complete Facebook post: Every person, each of us must decide what is a bridge too far. Mike Lee has obviously reached that point, where the moral compromise his party is asking him to make is simply beyond what is acceptable. It is not acceptable to ask a moral, dignified man to cast his vote to help elect an immoral man who is absent decency or dignity. If the consequence of standing against Trump and for principles is indeed the election of Hillary Clinton, so be it. At least it is a moral, ethical choice. If she is elected, the world does not end  …    . Once elected, Hillary can be fought. Her tactics are blatant and juvenile, and battling her by means of political and procedural maneuvering or through the media  through public marches and online articles, all of that will be moral, worthy of man of principal [sic]. Her nominees can be blocked, her proposed laws voted down. The alternative does not offer a moral person the same opportunity. If one helps to elect an immoral man to the highest office, then one is merely validating his immorality, lewdness, and depravity. But it’s OK, at least it is not her! Right?? No. Lee’s call for Trump to step down and withdraw from the race is respectful to him and to the process. Trump stepping down does not guarantee a Clinton win, but it does guarantee that the Republican party still stands for something, still allows its members to maintain thier [sic] own self respect and that it still has a future. Beck’s opposition to Trump has been unrivaled in its vociferous invective. The radio talker regularly describes Trump as a   psychopath with supporters Beck has compared to Nazi Brownshirts. The former radio shock jock’s disdain for Trump reached a crescendo in April when he donned swim goggles and rubbed his face in a bowl of crushed Cheetos to see if he could “look like Donald Trump. ” Follow Rebecca Mansour on Twitter @RAMansour