Hillary Clinton  —   who’s been busy trying to court young voters lately  —   praised Beyoncé’s Black Lives   visual album, “Lemonade” Tuesday during a taping of The Ellen DeGeneres Show. [The subject came up when a Facebook user asked the Democratic presidential   if she’d seen the singer’s latest project, which debuted exclusively last month on HBO.  “I have seen parts of it and I do like it,” Clinton said of the project.  Clinton’s tepid admission to seeing only “parts” of Lemonade may be the result of political calculation on her part. The storyline of Lemonade chronicles her   marriage to rapper   but the undying theme in the   50 minute offering is black nationalist feminism. The film features the mothers of Michael Brown and Trayvon Martin, two black men whose deaths were used to launched the   Black Lives Matter movement. Mothers honoring their sons. The moments in #LEMONADE I can’t stop thinking about. pic. twitter.   —   Errin (@errin_jade) April 24, 2016,  The first single from Beyoncé’s Lemonade was the   Lives Matter song Formation which was part of Beyoncé’s controversial Black Panther tribute Super Bowl performance. The music video for Formation was also replete with   imagery. During the taped segment of the daytime show, DeGeneres brought up Beyoncé again, asking Clinton if she would consider the singer as her vice presidential pick. “I really believe in making lemonade out of lemons,” Clinton joked. Beyoncé has stirred a good deal of controversy in recent weeks. Breitbart News reported last month that    singer’s Ivy Park clothing line is produced by female sweatshop workers who are paid approximately 75 cents per hour. Over the weekend, several Pittsburgh police officers reportedly said they are refusing to work security for Beyoncé’s May 31 concert at Heinz Field, due to what they call the singer’s   lyrics in Lemonade. On Monday, the singer came under fire from Prince fans and law enforcement supporters after Minnesota Governor Mark Dayton (D) signed a proclamation officially designating it “Beyoncé Day” in honor of Houston, Texas native. Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson