DALLAS, TEXAS  —   Donald J. Trump and the Republican National Committee chairman were greeted by an overflow crowd as they came to the Lone Star State. The two came for fundraising events and to rally Texans for the November showdown with Hillary Clinton. Outside the event were hundreds of protesters, including the usual motley assortment of agitator groups, and a heavy contingent of Mexican   activists. [The protesters’ views and actions ranged from the radical to the ridiculous and everywhere in between: from   clowns running amok to Black Bloc vigilantes  —   from incoherent Aztlan advocates to Islamic apologists.  The Best Shirt from a protester at tonight’s Dallas   event. pic. twitter.   —   Lee Stranahan (@stranahan) June 17, 2016,  More from genius white woman: I ask her where @HumaAbedin is from. Answer: Trump is a Nazi. Because Germany pic. twitter.   —   Lee Stranahan (@stranahan) June 17, 2016, Another genius   protester: the white woman who thinks white people are terrorists. pic. twitter.   —   Lee Stranahan (@stranahan) June 17, 2016, I asked the guy with the Sensible Gun Rights shirt a couple of questions outside Donald Trump rally. Well, watch. pic. twitter.   —   Lee Stranahan (@stranahan) June 16, 2016, It’s become routine to see Mexican flags at   protests, particularly in southwestern and western states. Dallas was no exception, as a large contingent of protestors organized by the Vote Latino Project came out with preprinted signs and a sizable group of people waving Mexican flags. The protest organizers appeared to have wised up to the fact that many American voters are confused and turned off by the sight of Mexican flags waving, so they also made sure to throw American flags into the mix. Dude in Mexico serape explains why he likes Mexico. pic. twitter.   —   Lee Stranahan (@stranahan) June 16, 2016, Make America Mexico Again? I asked why of protestors outside Donald Trump rally. pic. twitter.   —   Lee Stranahan (@stranahan) June 17, 2016, More with the “Make Texas Mexico Again people. Meet the brilliant into Donald Trump protesters. pic. twitter.   —   Lee Stranahan (@stranahan) June 17, 2016, As is typical at these protests, there were clashes with both the police and some   activists, but the Dallas police did an excellent job of separating the   protestors from the Americans trying to attend the Donald Trump event. The Dallas PD has brought out horses. pic. twitter.   —   Lee Stranahan (@stranahan) June 17, 2016, Horses at the ready. This is Texas. Donald Trump Protest. pic. twitter.   —   Lee Stranahan (@stranahan) June 17, 2016, Lamest Molotov cocktail attack by anti Trump protesters EVER pic. twitter.   —   Lee Stranahan (@stranahan) June 17, 2016, NT Donald Trump protesters spreading chaos throughout downtown Dallas. You can see police in all directions, pic. twitter.   —   Lee Stranahan (@stranahan) June 17, 2016, There was also a smattering of Black Bloc and “ ” anarchists, including one young man who’s clearly not a fan of Breitbart news. This Black Block wannabe at the Dallas Donald Trump protest is not a @BreitbartNews fan. pic. twitter.   —   Lee Stranahan (@stranahan) June 16, 2016, Then Black Bloc guy tried to get me beat up by “warning” the other protesters at Donald Trump event. I don’t play. pic. twitter.   —   Lee Stranahan (@stranahan) June 16, 2016, So far, @Nero had the bigger crowd yesterday in Orlando than the   people having in Dallas. pic. twitter.   —   Lee Stranahan (@stranahan) June 16, 2016, Despite the recent tragedy in Orlando, apparently some gay activists have still not gotten the idea that Islamic terrorists want to kill them and that Democrat policies will not defend them. The   protestors included a notably large contingent of LGBT activists and others who seem to misunderstand who their real enemy is. Then at   protest there was this guy. Think of him as the  @Nero. Clearly doesn’t exfoliate. pic. twitter.   —   Lee Stranahan (@stranahan) June 17, 2016, I don’t think being gay is a choice, but acting like this Trump hater edefinitely is. pic. twitter.   —   Lee Stranahan (@stranahan) June 17, 2016, Another   Protestor who completely denies that most terrorism in the world today is from Muslims. pic. twitter.   —   Lee Stranahan (@stranahan) June 17, 2016, Trump has a busy weekend of rallies in the southwest ahead of him, with scheduled appearances in Houston, Las Vegas and Phoenix.