One of the most important and original filmmakers working today, Frederick Wiseman has been making documentaries for 50 years. His movies are about specific places  —   institutions, organizations, cities and communities: the New York neighborhood of Jackson Heights the coastal town of Belfast, Me. the Alabama Institute for the Deaf and Blind American Ballet Theater the National Gallery in London. What interests Mr. Wiseman is how these institutions reflect the larger society and what they reveal about human behavior. His documentaries can be long. The   and   running times might seem forbidding, but there is rarely a dull moment, in spite of the absence of conventional narrative. Very quickly, you find yourself absorbed in patterns and details as meaning emerges   surfacing moment by moment, encounter by encounter, in bodies and faces alone and in groups. In “Basic Training,” men become soldiers order by order and step by step. In “Deaf,” students learn to speak through sounds and gestures, repeating words and sentences with their teachers until communication is achieved. There can be an abstract, mechanical quality to the way bodies function in these institutions, but even as people can look like moving parts in a large machine, the camera registers their individuality. Mr. Wiseman’s great subject is human beings, in all of their  —   of our  —   variety and uniqueness. On Friday, April 14, the first half of a complete retrospective of his work begins at Film Forum. It’s a fitting tribute and arrives at a particularly productive moment for this prolific director, who in November received an honorary Academy Award. A ballet based on his 1967 film, “Titicut Follies,” opened last month in Minneapolis, and he has completed a new documentary, “Ex Libris,” about the New York Public Library, due later this year. “What’s kept me going,” Mr. Wiseman, who is 87, said upon receiving his Oscar, “is that it’s fun and an adventure. Constantly working also keeps me off the street, or at least on the streets that I like. ” What follows is a very partial introduction to some of the highlights and defining themes of his distinctive and capacious body of work. “The ideas of the movie came out of the absolute sense of shock about what Bridgewater was about,” Mr. Wiseman once said of his most notorious film, which takes place in the state prison for the criminally insane at Bridgewater, Mass. A principled and gravely disturbing look into the void, it remains an appalling inquiry into penal abuse. What Mr. Wiseman found was too much for Massachusetts, which sought to ban the film for, as a trial judge put it in 1967, an “unwarranted” intrusion into the “right to privacy of each inmate. ” The legal wrangling centered on the inmates’ rights versus the public’s right to know and opened a constellation of issues involving documentary ethics and thorny questions of informed consent. Unlike Mr. Wiseman, the film’s opponents were uncomfortably silent on the prison’s barbarism and basic human rights, and at times seemed more concerned with the reputation of Massachusetts than with the inmates’ welfare. In 1969, its Supreme Court suggested as much: “There is a collective, indecent intrusion into the most private aspects of the lives of these unfortunate persons in the Commonwealth’s custody. ” The ban on public screenings remained in place until 1991. Now, 50 years later, the film can be seen for what it was: a work of political art and moral outrage. (Manohla Dargis) Mr. Wiseman’s documentaries are about institutions  —   the bricks, mortar, endless meetings and all the moving parts  —   including all the moving, walking and talking people who go into making them. A consummate dialectician, he likes to toggle between the general and the specific, creating a kind of accordion effect as images of buildings give way to images of people inside those buildings and longer views oscillate with   of faces and body parts. In “Blind” (1986) fingers trace Braille dots in “Boxing Gym” (2010) the focus turns to fists and   feet. In his 1971 film “Basic Training,” Mr. Wiseman followed a company of drafted and enlisted men at Fort Knox, Ky. as it is put through its paces. He shot the movie in the summer of 1970, after the first Vietnam draft lottery was instituted, and it is populated with achingly young men as they become a marching, shooting, “Yes, sir”  unit. It’s a stark, dehumanizing process filled with bracingly human moments, as when a black soldier accused of not following orders tells a white soldier: “Let’s be frank with each other, now you know this is not my country. ” One of the film’s most haunting moments takes place during a combat exercise. By then, the soldiers are marching in sync  —   chanting “Mr. Nixon dropped the   I don’t want to go to ’Nam”  —   and seemingly ready for war. With their faces smeared in camouflage paint and leaves stuck on their helmets, they practice their moves, silently raising and lowering arms and legs to the sounds of buzzing insects. As one man lifts his arm, the camera follows the upward motion and then pauses on his delicate hand poised against the sky. It’s a   image: With fingers as thin as a Gothic Jesus, this hand was made to kill and belongs to a man who might die. (M. D.) Political activists in the ’60s used to joke that “freedom is an endless meeting. ” Mr. Wiseman, who began his career as a filmmaker in that decade, has a preoccupation with process that may be a generational characteristic. Or it may just be that he’s a sensitive chronicler of modern life, an enormous proportion of which consists of committee work. A meeting  —   formal or informal, routine or hastily gathered, tedious or contentious  —   amounts to a Wiseman signature, like a shootout in a Tarantino movie or a dirty joke in a Judd Apatow comedy. When a group of people gather in a room, the business of the world is being done (or postponed or discussed or avoided, which amounts to the same thing). More crucial, it is being witnessed, by the camera and the audience, so that essential information can be imparted about the workings of law and order, art and politics, knowledge and power. If you listen closely, you can glean useful insights into such matters. But you also gain a kind of ecstatic anthropological insight into rituals that are both banal and outlandish, and an initiation into the mysteries of human psychology. You notice posture and gesture, who talks too much and who stays silent, who is passive and who is aggressive. Meetings are the most quotidian moments in a Wiseman documentary, but also, often, the most intriguing. They are nuggets of real life and eruptions of pure theater. (A. O. Scott) Action leads to reaction, and sometimes a push earns a   shove. That’s true throughout Mr. Wiseman’s work, which is filled with people  —   teachers, guards, bureaucrats, choreographers  —   telling other people what to do and how to do it, as well as where, when and why. Some of this can seem benign, as when executives in “National Gallery” (2014) meet to discuss the London museum of the title. When that talk turns to branding, though, and voices start to sharpen, a meeting about prestige, publicity and populism evolves into a larger debate about survival  —   as well as one very civilized power struggle. In other Wiseman films, power is brutal and blunt. That’s particularly true in the earlier films, in which the    images are sometimes matched by a startling Manicheanism. The harrowing “Law and Order” (1969) follows a mostly white police force in Kansas City, Mo. as its members go on patrol, answer calls and, in one case, bring a lost, weeping toddler back to the station. It’s a moment of    gentleness amid more difficult, at times violent encounters between cops and civilians, as in a horrifying scene in which a white plainclothes detective puts a chokehold on a black prostitute, an action so harsh her tongue juts out of her mouth. It’s a dreadful, terrifying moment and, for this filmmaker, unusual in its viciousness. Generally, violence in Mr. Wiseman’s work remains implied and attenuated, and more a matter of ordinary domination. Few images will seem as familiar to viewers as the scene in “High School” (1968) when an official  —   the camera tagging behind  —   patrols one of the school’s   halls, demanding passes and ordering students to class. As he shoots out questions  —   “What are you doin’ here? ,” “Where you goin’? ,” “Pass?”  —   this disciplinarian isn’t just corralling kids, he is, of course, also preparing them for lives of 9 to 5 submission. Woe to the resisters! (M. D.) One of modern cinema’s great observers, Mr. Wiseman is also a prodigious listener, a visual artist who thinks like a musical composer. He harvests sounds along with images  —   in many of his films he operates the recording equipment as well as the camera  —   and shapes the material with an eye and ear for patterns and counterpoint, themes and variations. In most documentaries, human speech is explanatory and expository: Much information is conveyed by means of   narration and   interviews. Mr. Wiseman avoids these techniques entirely. When people talk in his movies, they aren’t explaining themselves to us they’re expressing themselves to one another. We eavesdrop not only to figure out what’s happening, but also to attend to idioms and rhythms, to the musical qualities of speech. We tune in to the ways language is used by deaf and blind children as well as by judges, politicians and teachers, and also to the different ways it sounds. But words aren’t all we hear. We hear the cadence of boxers’ dancers’ and soldiers’ feet the lapping of waves on the side of a boat the whooshing of skis on an Aspen slope the sighing of the wind in the trees of Central Park. (A. O. S.) The boundaries of New York neighborhoods are determined more by local custom and   industry hype than by law or charter. This makes “In Jackson Heights”  —   about a polyglot,    section of Queens  —   an anomaly in the Wiseman canon. Its setting is not a town or an institution, but something with a less definite shape and a more informal reason for being. Jackson Heights in an accident of demography, geography and zoning. Or maybe it’s a community, a place given coherence by the rough serendipity of strangers adjusting to one another’s presence. Who are they? How do they live together? How do they make it work? (“It” being that elusive thing we like to call democracy.) One answer, hardly surprising in a Wiseman film, is through meetings. We observe gatherings of senior citizens, gay and lesbian residents and recent immigrants. Their conversations are by turns personal, practical and philosophical, and they revolve around the fundamental issues of civic order, which are shown to be at once mundane and grand. How do we keep our streets safe? How do we balance rights and obligations? How do we pursue prosperity without trampling our cherished traditions and common spaces? The wonder of “In Jackson Heights”  —   Mr. Wiseman’s most Whitmanesque film  —   is that it grounds a vision of America in the particulars of daily life. It discovers a hero in the person of Daniel Dromm, a New York City councilman who tackles the job of representing his neighborhood with shambling, inexhaustible good cheer. Some of the most moving scenes take place in Mr. Dromm’s office, where members of his staff answer phone calls from constituents who need to talk to someone in government. They don’t always have the right branch  —   their concerns include constitutional law and United States military policy  —   but the courtesy and patience with which they are treated provide a timely and permanent lesson in democratic values. (A. O. S.)