WASHINGTON, D. C  —   In an exclusive video interview at the presidential suite of the historic Watergate Hotel, the victims of Bill Clinton’s alleged sexual assault   —   Juanita Broaddrick, Kathleen Willey, and Paula Jones  —   got together for the first time in person to express their personal fear of Hillary Clinton and to warn voters that Clinton does not stand for women’s issues.  The three women, who say their lives were forever changed by their experiences with the Clintons, used words like “terrified” and “frightened” to describe their feelings about the prospects of a Hillary Clinton presidency. Watch the video here: When asked about the   that their allegations toward Bill Clinton only dig up past “infidelities,” all three women attacked establishment media figures for using this language. “We were not willing participants,” Broaddrick said. “These were crimes. ” In a separate interview, Broaddrick shared her own story of brutal sexual assault which she says Bill Clinton perpetrated against her. Willey called out NBC News’ Andrea Mitchell and CNN’s Jake Tapper by name, challenging them: “These are not infidelities. A rape is not an infidelity. These are crimes. Any other people would be in jail  …      “This is no longer about infidelities, indiscretions, girlfriends, sex, interns  —   none of those. This is about a serial rapist, a predator, and his wife who has enabled his behavior all of these years. ” Later in this interview, Jones, Willey, and Broaddrick expressed fear at how a potential President Hillary Clinton would use the power of her office. “It terrifies me and it should terrify all women,” Jones stated about Hillary’s presidential ambitions. “It should terrify all men and women,” Willey added. “She will annihilate any enemy. All of her enemies. Anybody who has spoken against her. Across the board for I don’t know how many years. She will get rid of them. ” “No woman who advocates for women attacks the victims of sexual assault be it by her husband or anybody else,” said Willey. The women argued that the term “enabler” best describes Hillary Clinton’s role in her husband’s alleged sexual crimes. “There is not a better word for any of this,” stated Broaddrick. “Especially when she threatened me personally. ” Willey added, “She is complicit in everything that he has done. ” “She had helped him do it,” asserted Jones. “She has turned a blind eye for decades against what he has done” stated Broaddrick. “And she has been the main one to help cover this up. And go after us. ” Willey and Jones both accused Bill Clinton of sexual assault, with Willey saying that she suffered acts of intimidation in what she has described as a campaign to silence her. Broaddrick says that Bill Clinton raped her, and recently stated in an interview with this reporter that she was raped twice during the same 1978 alleged assault. 