A Twitter user had his account locked yesterday after he used the notorious ‘#KillAllMen’ and ‘#KillAllWhitePeople’ hashtags. But he wasn’t punished for supporting the hashtags  —   he was punished for opposing them. [The account, @DrEvilGamer, was asked to delete a tweet in which he suggested that the hashtags  —   that progressives claim are “jokes” wouldn’t be very funny if they were taken seriously.  Yo @Twitter @Support. Why was my account locked for this? pic. twitter.   —   Gulag’ed 4 no bigot (@DrEvilGamer) June 8, 2016,  Soon after posting the tweet, the user’s account was locked and he was asked to remove the messages. Over 100K tweets and I’m thrown in the gulag for this? https:  .   —   Gulag’ed 4 no bigot (@DrEvilGamer) June 8, 2016,  “Kill All Men” is a slogan coined by feminists, later modified by progressive activists to include “Kill All Whites” and “Kill All White Men. ” Taken literally, these slogans directly contravene Twitter’s rules against inciting violence, although defenders of the slogan insist that it’s just a “joke. ” This is the latest example of Twitter targeting those who object to progressive narratives on their platform. Last year, the   actor Adam Baldwin saw his account locked after he criticised progressives on the platform. The social media platform was also plunged into controversy after it “unverified” the account of Breitbart senior editor Milo Yiannopoulos without explanation. Internal sources at the company have also told Breitbart that Twitter regularly interferes in its own algorithms to promote certain accounts and news sources above others. Unlike Facebook, which recently scrambled to address similar complaints of bias against conservatives with a   meeting of   pundits at their California headquarters, Twitter has done comparatively little to address concerns about politically motivated punishments on the platform. Jack Dorsey has publicly denied that his site censors people based on their political views, but he has yet to address any of the specific cases in a mounting list of examples that show the company does exactly that. You can follow Allum Bokhari on Twitter, add him on Facebook. Email tips and suggestions to abokhari@breitbart. com