Police have asked the unknown woman who was publicly “ ” by 2015 “Playmate of the Year” Dani Mathers to come forward and identify herself so that they can continue their investigation. [Mathers, 29, is currently under criminal investigation for the “illegal distribution” of the woman’s image on social media platform SnapChat.  “Without a victim, we can’t go forward,” Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) spokeswoman Officer Jenny Houser told the Los Angeles Times. The woman in the photo may go to any Los Angeles police station, or call Crime Stoppers at (800)   (8477) in order to help authorities in their quest to deliver justice on her behalf. LAist points out that Mathers took the photo in the Universal City L. A. Fitness, where she previously held a membership, prior to having it permanently revoked by the chain’s upper management. L. A Fitness’ Executive Vice President of Operations Jill Greuling told LAist: We have identified the person who took this photo as a member.  Her behavior is appalling and puts every member at risk of losing their privacy.  Her membership has been permanently revoked, at all of our health clubs, and law enforcement has been notified.  Our written rules are very clear: Cell phone usage and photography are prohibited in the locker rooms.  This is not only our rule, but common decency. Despite issuing an apology on SnapChat  —   where Mathers said the photo and image of her covering her mouth with the caption, “If I can’t unsee this then you can’t either,” was meant to be sent to one friend  —   no one was buying it. She has been hit with mounting criticism, and has deactivated several of her social media accounts. There is even a Change. org petition in circulation which seeks to have the Playboy model arrested for violating federal law. The petition has 28, 000 signatures so far. Furthermore, Mathers has been “suspended indefinitely” from appearing on the Heidi and Frank radio show on LA’s KLOS, where she was a contributor for years. Follow Adelle Nazarian on Twitter @AdelleNaz