Fans and supporters of Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders’s presidential campaign are apparently still raw about having been called “ridiculous” by comedian Sarah Silverman at the Democratic National Convention in July. [The    Jesus is Magic comedian drew a torrent of criticism on Tuesday after   a post by Sanders calling for automatic voter registration when American citizens reach the age of 18.  We can combat voter suppression and increase turnout by ensuring that anyone who is of voting age is automatically registered to vote.  —   Bernie Sanders (@SenSanders) August 23, 2016,  The only people against this r those who fear how students vote bc students tend to be on the right side of history https:  .   —   Sarah Silverman (@SarahKSilverman) August 23, 2016,  The comedian’s followers quickly chimed in, with at least one calling her a “hypocrite” over comments she made at the DNC last month in which she pleaded with fellow Sanders supporters to switch candidates and vote for Hillary Clinton in the general election. Some users also mocked Silverman for suggesting that students are most always on the “right side of history. ” @SarahKSilverman @SenSanders Honestly how dare you even retweet Sanders. You shit on his supporters and their vote.  —   David (@Trajikbpm) August 23, 2016,  @mthrlwd @SarahKSilverman @SenSanders yet your vote was cast, potentially (and likely) for a candidate who is antithetical to your views,  —   Jester Revan (@jester_revan) August 23, 2016,  @SarahKSilverman @SenSanders pic. twitter.   —   Bernie Lope (@AGMcThugabobs) August 23, 2016,  @SarahKSilverman You’re just RIDICULOUS,  —   Brian Watts (@The2ndguardsUS) August 23, 2016,  @SarahKSilverman @SenSanders Like they were ”right” when they overwhelmingly supported Bernie? You’re being ridiculous again Sarah.  —   leftbob (@leftbobgolfer) August 24, 2016,  @SarahKSilverman Chutzpah! Don’t quote Bernie, and don’t try to manipulate the same people u insulted and spit on. You’re disgusting.  —   mary kile (@cristobal62) August 24, 2016,  @HeimishCon @SarahKSilverman @SenSanders Whenever I’m in need of sound, eloquent,   wisdom, I ask a student. No, wait  …      —   The Department of No (@SantasTavern) August 23, 2016,  @SarahKSilverman Seriously? Bolsheviks? Mao’s cultural revolution (mostly college students)? Ever, you know  …    . crack a history book?  —   Fernando Pombeiro (@fernpombeiro) August 23, 2016,  @SarahKSilverman @SenSanders Automatic registration isn’t a bad idea, but students are usually not on the right side of history. Look it up.  —   Larry Medin (@larrymfive) August 23, 2016,  Silverman was one of Sanders’s earliest and most vocal celebrity endorsers. The comedian and actress had stumped for the Vermont senator as early on in the race as last August, when she introduced the candidate as the only one “not for sale” at a   rally in Los Angeles. Silverman also cheered Sanders during Democratic presidential debates, and even cut a video in March explaining her support for the insurgent candidate. “He proved that what is right can also be possible,” she said in the video. “This man is running for president on a platform that is just a giant ‘f —  k you’ to the    billionaire class who have been controlling government policy with their money and not paying a nickel in taxes through government loopholes they secure with said money. ” Silverman drew scorn from fellow Sanders supporters after speaking at the DNC in July, when she urged Democrats to unite behind nominee Hillary Clinton. “I am proud to be a part of Bernie’s movement, and a vital part of that movement is making absolutely sure that Hillary Clinton is our next President of the United States,” Silverman told a raucous crowd at the Wells Fargo Arena in Philadelphia. “Can I just say, to the ‘Bernie or bust’ people, you’re being ridiculous,” the comedian chided.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum