Pop quiz: Who almost exclusively has run Hollywood, America’s university system, and almost every big urban city in America, and done so for decades?  The answer is more complicated than “Democrats. ” Most of the people who run these institutions and communities are so much more than Democrats. They are leftists  —   hardcore,     central planning,   leftists.  And yet, when they enjoy free rein for decades, take a hard look at the utopia these utopians create. Let’s start with Hollywood, which is about as   as any institution in the country. What we have here is a community run by leftists currently embroiled in a huge race scandal. For two years in a row, only white actors have been nominated for  performance Oscars. Where leftists have enjoyed unchallenged rule for decades, 40 out of 40 acting nominations have gone to Whitey. According to the   mainstream media, there is a rape crisis rampaging though America’s university system. If you choose to believe the studies and reports, campus rape is a   epidemic. How is this possible when for decades hardcore leftists have enjoyed unchallenged rule over America’s higher education system. There are exceptions, of course, like Liberty University, where there is no rape cris —   oh, wait, Liberty is run by conservative Christians. On top of all that rape, according to the leftists who for decades have run the American university system, there is a major racism problem at the very same American university system Leftists  …     have  …     run  …     for  …     decades  …     Leftists take over Hollywood and the result is racism. Leftists take over the college campus and the result is racism and rape. And I’m just getting started. The city of Flint, Michigan, has been imploding since the 1980’s. Now, due to mismanagement by city officials, the water is poisoned with lead. In every way imaginable, the city is an  . But how is that possible when   have run the city unchallenged for years? How is that possible when in 2006, Flint was voted the 10th most liberal city in America? According to our   media, armed, racist   (police officers) who are employed by Democrats (mayors)  in cities run for decades by Democrats, are gunning down innocent black people: Chicago, Baltimore, Ferguson (which is run by the St. Louis county) and in some of those cases, riots follow. The youth black unemployment rate is an astonishing 21%. Don’t most of these young people live in Liberal Utopias? Who is exclusively in charge of our failing urban public schools systems? Anyone want to talk about Detroit? Do not, though, make the mistake of blaming Democrats. You can’t blame Democrats anymore than you can blame a rattlesnake bite on the rattlesnake. Predators prey, that’s what Democrats are and that is what Democrats do. After so many decades, you have to blame the stupid prey  —   the morons who live, work, and spend    of dollars in tuition to be preyed upon. If rapes and racism and riots and poisoned water don’t result in a political revolution, that’s not your problem or my problem or America’s problem. It’s a choice. Until the sheep fire up a flare telling the world they are ready for change, all you can do is hold on to your compassionate hope that someday that time comes.   Follow John Nolte on Twitter @NolteNC                