A teacher who was a contestant on Jeopardy Thursday made fun of the Common Core standards when a category bearing the name of the highly unpopular education standards appeared on the game’s board.[  The Washington Free Beacon reports: Host Alex Trebek read off the list of categories to begin Double Jeopardy, the last of which was The Common “Core,” where every correct response would include “core” somewhere. Terrie Trebilcock, a high school history and economics teacher, had a quip ready to go. “Well, let’s get it over with,” she said. “Common Core for $400. ” Trebek chuckled and the audience laughed appreciatively. Others tweeted their support of Trebilcock’s statement: ”Let’s get this over with. Common Core for $400.” Best thing said on #Jeopardy in a long time!  —   Amy Voss (@AmyV0ss) May 5, 2016,  Loved the old school teacher on #Jeopardy who said ”Lets get it over with” and picked Common ”Core” as a category. @hollywoodn60,  —   Adam Niemeyer (@adamniemeyer) May 5, 2016,  . @Jeopardy category Common ”Core” prompts a teacher to exclaim: ”Let’s get it over with!” #TheySaidIt,  —   Chris Jacobs (@chrisjacobsHC) May 5, 2016,  The Common Core standards are a federally promoted education initiative introduced in the Obama administration’s 2009 stimulus bill through a competitive grant program called Race to the Top (RttT). States could apply and compete for federal grant money as long as they adopted a set of uniform standards and aligned curricula and testing that requires a greater role for government in education, massive student data collection, and teacher evaluations based on student performance on assessments aligned with the standards. The National Governors Association (NGA) the Council of Chief State School Officers (CCSSO) and nonprofit progressive education think tank Achieve, Inc. were mainly responsible for the initiative, and both the NGA and the CCSSO are the publishers of the Common Core State Standards. All three organizations were privately funded by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, and none of these groups are accountable to parents, teachers, students, or taxpayers. There is no official information about who selected the individuals to write the Common Core standards. None of the writers of the math and English Language Arts standards have ever taught math, English, or reading at the   level.