BRATISLAVA, Slovakia  —   When Simona Budinska, a    public relations specialist, had trouble finding   products at her local grocery, she and her husband began driving across the border to Austria, where the stores were teeming with choices. But it was not the variety of products on the shelves as much as what was in them that stunned the couple. “The washing powder was just much more effective, and the ketchup contained more tomatoes than the Slovak one,” Ms. Budinska said. The countries of Eastern and Central Europe have long bridled at being treated like the poor cousins of the European Union family. It does not help that even after more than a dozen years in the bloc, wages remain lower, corruption persists and public services, like schools and hospitals, are far scruffier. But now that sense of resentment  —   of being treated as   citizens by more prosperous neighbors  —   is reaching even into the region’s refrigerators and cupboards. With rising passion, prominent politicians and local news media have taken up the issue of whether Eastern Europeans are being sold inferior products. The issue has steadily emerged with growing consumer awareness among a newly prosperous middle class. Yet it also crosses class and party lines, so it is   for politicians looking to play on the region’s festering grievances as a wave of nationalism sweeps the Continent. Last month, the leaders of Poland, Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic went so far as to ask the European Commission to investigate the complaint, which has been backed up in recent years by several studies, though not exhaustive ones. “People who are bothered about this trend tend to be young, middle class and higher income,” said Daniel Prokop, head of social and political research at Median, a private polling and marketing agency in Prague. “Politicians need some enemies to mobilize support. And they like the food issue, because it can be blamed on foreigners. ” Food producers and industry analysts point out that it is common for ingredients to differ from country to country, sometimes to favor local producers, sometimes to appease local tastes and, yes, sometimes to increase profits by substituting cheaper ingredients. “Brand owners nearly always tailor a product for its target market, whether by age, ethnicity, income, geographic location or any other demographic,” said Lisa McTigue Pierce, executive editor of Packaging Digest, published in Oak Brook, Ill. Indeed, she said, the trend has been that consumers demand such customization and personalization, not homogeneity, at the supermarket. But bitter Eastern Europeans insist that their situation is different. They are part of the European Union, a common market, and they believe that means that food quality should remain constant throughout all 28 nations. “We cannot allow our citizens to be considered second class,” said Gabriela Matecna, Slovakia’s agriculture minister. “Slovak consumers, just like consumers from other countries of the European Union, have the right to get the same quality of food when it comes to the same brand from the same producer. ” With parliamentary elections set for the fall, the food issue has gotten an even bigger push next door in the Czech Republic. Marian Jurecka, minister of agriculture there, has been leading the charge on the issue since 2015. He denies that it has anything to do with politics. But the populist party leading in the polls was created by Andrej Babis, an oligarch currently serving as finance minister, whose holdings include some of the country’s leading food producers. In Slovakia, the populist prime minister, Robert Fico, faces rising competition from extreme   groups and a series of corruption scandals. He has seized on the food issue, too. “We will ask the European Commission to adopt the suitable legislation as soon as possible,” Mr. Fico said this year, “to stop the practices that degrade the citizens of Slovakia, Hungary, Poland and the Czech Republic. ” While rumors that inferior food is shipped to the East have swirled for years, only in 2011 did the Slovak Association of Consumers conduct a comparison of a basket of products purchased in Austria with the same products bought in Slovakia. In all but one case, the products in the East were inferior, the group concluded. This led Olga Sehnalova, a Czech member of the European Parliament, to take up the cause. She conducted a test with her own basket of products and found half were inferior. “Regrettably, I had to confirm that differences were really found, and not in terms of something being more or less tasty but in the quality of the basic ingredients,” Ms. Sehnalova said. A later test, released in February, found that eight of 23 tested products were of lesser quality, she said. And a subsequent survey of Slovak and Austrian foods had even worse results. The Czechs found that many   products  —   Mövenpick bourbon vanilla ice cream, Carbonell extra virgin olive oil, Heinz ketchup  —   were identical whether purchased in Germany or in the Czech Republic. But when differences were found in other products, lesser quality in the East was almost always the result. Rama Classic margarine had lower fat content.   Sprite and Nestea used fructose as a sweetener in the Czech Republic, but actual sugar in Germany. Canned luncheon meat sold under the Tulip brand was all pork in Germany, but it included “mechanically separated poultry meat” in the Czech Republic. Officials at Rama did not respond to requests for comment. But the differences are obvious to Jens Hansen, a spokesman for Danish Crown, which makes Tulip products. “It is two different products sold under two different names in two different countries,” he said, adding that a quick look at the list of ingredients makes that clear. Ms. Sehnalova, though, said the Czechs conducting the study had taken into account the entire “visual impact” of the products, including their packaging and label design, before deciding to compare them. “Less meat, more additives and other indicators to justify saying that the quality is lower,” Ms. Sehnalova said. “That’s what we found. ” Thus far, the only studies conducted have been between Germany and the Czech Republic, and Slovakia and Austria, and these have involved only a small sampling. But officials from the region now want all Europe Union countries to undergo testing, to determine how widespread the issue is. Food producers and industry experts insist there are often sound reasons for products to differ between countries: local tastes, a preference for local ingredients, divergent buying patterns. “The formula for   is the same all around the world,” said Petr Jonak, external affairs director for   in Slovakia and the Czech Republic. “Locally we add the water, CO2, and some from the proven and authorized   sweeteners. ” The Czech Republic gets fructose syrup, he said, but so do Spain and the United States. Germany gets cane or beet sugar, but so do Austria and many other countries. The Czech Association for Branded Products said its products met all European Union regulations. If contents do change from country to country, the difference is reflected on the ingredients label. “Special attention is given to providing consumers with comprehensive information about the products, including detailed specifications of ingredients on the label, enabling them to make a qualified choice,” the association said in a statement. That has done little to allay a sense of resentment among many Eastern consumers. “It is absolutely proven that the product are inferior here,” said Helena Tomkova, 43, who runs a public relations agency in Bratislava, the Slovakian capital. “Foods are different, but also household products, like laundry detergent. The soaps sold here are not as concentrated. ” Ms. Tomkova, though, now has a financial interest in the question. In 2014, with Zuzana Hostakova, 28, she founded Drogerka, an online site where residents of Slovakia can buy products from Austria and have them delivered. Business is growing, with plans to expand into the Czech Republic. “Food quality is an issue that some care about, some don’t,” said Mr. Prokop, of the marketing and polling agency in Prague. “But for those who do, it is a potent issue. ”