Andrea Lafferty, president of the Traditional Values Coalition, tells Breitbart News Daily with SiriusXM host Stephen K. Bannon regarding Target, “We need more people to sign up for the boycott. We’re launching something this week. We’re now heading into bathing suit season.   …     Do not let your young girls and teen girls buy their summer clothes or bathing suits at Target. ”[The American Family Association (AFA) has also been promoting a formal boycott of Target stores.  Lafferty already correctly predicted to Breitbart the broader agenda behind moves by Target and the administration in this regard. She also pointed out that when Democrats held Congress during Obama’s term, they made no effort to pass legislation similar to what Obama is trying to do through executive action now: “The Obama Administration has taken Title VII of the Civil Rights Act  —   it was designed to prevent discrimination on the basis of sex  —   and they’ve created a whole new class of accommodations, for a minuscule part of the population,” she continued. “And so the Obama Administration, time and again, has tried to force government entities to accept this gender identity issue, the bathroom issue, against common sense and the will of the people. ” Lafferty said this coercive agenda goes far beyond the transgender bathroom controversy. “They’re taking whatever law that’s out there, and twisting and perverting it,” she said. “We see it with regulatory actions, with EPA and others. This Administration is corrupt. This Administration has tried to use the heavy hand of government to force the American people to comply, on a range of issues. ” Lafferty worried that the public didn’t fully understand the significance of the bathroom issue. “This is not just about a guy going into a women’s bathroom at Target, or wherever. It’s also about schools,” she explained. “There is a broader agenda, and I hope those that are running for office will understand this. ” Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00 a. m. to 9:00 a. m. Eastern. The full interview is available below: 