A central Texas man was arrested and charged with 1st degree murder after police said they found his wife’s severed head in a freezer in their home. [Bellmead, Texas, police officers were called to a home where a man was reported to be assaulting his wife. Officers made contact with Davey Dauzat, 23, who was inside his home with the couple’s two children. He refused to come out of the home, KCEN NBC6 in Waco reported.  “He was still inside with the children at one point, Sgt. Kory Martin, spokesman for Bellmead Police, told the local NBC affiliate. “We had a hostage negotiator who made contact with him and as soon as we made contact with him, asked him to come outside, he voluntarily came outside and we were able to get him into custody and we quickly had units run inside that home and secure those children and the crime scene. ” It was the second visit by police to Dauzat’s home. Earlier in the day, officers were called to the scene to do a “welfare check. ” This is a type of call where someone concerned for someone else’s safety asks police to make a courtesy check. Officers determined everything was okay at that time. The assault in progress call came just a few hours later. Officers carried out a search and found the wife’s decapitated body. Natasha’s head was located in the freezer. An autopsy has been ordered to determine the actual cause of Natasha’s death. Davie Dauzat has been charged with her murder and is being held in the McLennan County jail on a bond of $500, 000. When Dauzat exited the home, he was covered in blood officers said. The Bellmead police officers quickly entered the home and removed the   and    children. They were unharmed. The children have been placed with a crime victim liaison until appropriate placement arrangements can be determined. Breitbart Texas reviewed the couple’s Facebook pages which appear to show a happy and loving family. The Dauzats have been married since 2014, according to their page. Lana Shadwick is a contributing writer and legal analyst for Breitbart Texas. She has served as a prosecutor and associate judge in Texas. Follow her on Twitter @LanaShadwick2.