President Obama is helping spread Islamism both at home and abroad by dealing with the supposedly “moderate” Muslim Brotherhood rather than banning it, according to an article in the National Review. [Andrew C. McCarthy writes:    …    I believe Obama is betraying our national security, but I do not think he is doing so intentionally. Instead, he has the good intentions, such as they are, of a   globalist. The president sees security as a matter of international stability, not of a single nation’s safety  —   not even of that single nation that has entrusted him with its security. Although the Brotherhood seems to reject violent jihad, it only does so opportunistically, and is happy to back violence, such is in Israel, if it knows the global left will approve. McCarthy says the Brotherhood is far more clever than other jihadists for four reasons: (1) The Brotherhood pretends to reject violent jihad, especially when dealing with Western audiences. (2) The Brotherhood opportunistically limits its overt support for jihad to situations that the international Left feels comfortable excusing (e. g. violence against “occupation” by Israel, or by American troops fighting Bush’s “unnecessary war of aggression” in Iraq). (3) The Brotherhood purports to condemn terrorist acts that it believes, judging from a   analysis, are likelier to harm than to advance the sharia agenda (particularly the Brotherhood’s lucrative fundraising apparatus in the West). A good example is the   atrocities (but note that even there, the Brotherhood, like the rest of the Left, always adds that American foreign policy is jointly culpable). (4) The Brotherhood aggressively pursues a menu of nonviolent advocacy and sharia proselytism, known in Islamist ideology as dawah. As Brotherhood honcho and major Hamas backer Sheikh Yusuf   puts it, “We will conquer Europe, we will conquer America, not through the sword but through dawah. ” It also realises that attempts to impose democracy on   countries are its best way to achieve power: The Brotherhood has figured out that “democracy” in   countries is the quickest route to imposing sharia. So it has taken on the mantle of “democracy” champions. By backing the Brotherhood, Beltway progressives purport to promote a “democratic transformation” of the Muslim Middle East. The fact that it would be a transformation to an   discriminatory,   system is, for progressives, as irrelevant as the fact that Obama’s empowering of the monstrous Tehran regime destroys the democratic aspirations of   Iranians. The progressive conception of stability  —   cooperation with rogues  —   is no friend of freedom. It has now “devoted three generations to building an infrastructure in the United States  —   an impressive network of affiliated Islamist organizations” and it uses the US constitution to protect itself. Our agencies must deem     advocacy as “constitutionally protected activity,” no matter how virulently   it is no matter that it supports Hamas (material support for which is actually a felony under American law) and no matter how many Islamists make the seamless transition from Brotherhood indoctrination to membership in other, more notorious terrorist organizations. Click here to read the whole article. Listen to Andrew McCarthy’s discussion about this article on Breitbart News Daily on SiriusXM:  