  Hollywood actress Susan Sarandon expressed doubts on Stephen Colbert’s The Late Show about Hillary Clinton’s “moral judgment” and said she is “more afraid” of Clinton than she is of Donald Trump’s proposed border wall. [After Colbert showed Sarandon an old photo of her posing with Clinton, the actress said, “Look at how happy we were. Then I had to break up with her. ”  Criticizing Clinton’s “support for fracking,” her support for the 2003 invasion of Iraq, and her opposition to raising the minimum wage to $15 an hour, Sarandon  —   who is supporting Democratic socialist Sen. Bernie Sanders  —   stated she thinks Clinton is not progressive enough to lead the country. “So I was like, ‘Who is this person? I can’t trust her,’” she said of her “breakup” with Clinton. “I don’t trust her. ” “You need somebody that has the moral judgment beforehand, not when it’s safe,” she said. Colbert then pointed out that Sanders is significantly behind in the delegate count, to which Sarandon suggested Sanders might have a shot at winning the Democratic nomination at a contested convention. The host asked her if she will vote for Clinton if Sanders loses the nomination. “I’m not dealing with that yet,” she shot back. Colbert later brought up comments Sarandon made last month about her possibly supporting Trump over Clinton in a general election. “You said, ‘Trump might bring the revolution faster,’” he said. Sarandon walked back the comment and said, “I’m more afraid of actually Hillary Clinton’s war record and her hawkishness than I am of building a wall. But that doesn’t mean that I would vote for Trump. ” Sarandon said, “And I’m not sure Trump is gonna get it. I think all kinds of crazy things could happen at those conventions. ” “You wouldn’t vote for Trump over Hillary?” Colbert asked. “Come on. Who is going to vote for Trump, seriously?” she replied. “A lot of people!” Colbert said. “A lot of people! A lot of people!” Sarandon responded, “A lot of people, but not a lot of women, not a lot of minorities once you get the information out there. He’s been doing really well against a crowded field, but   …     we’ll see what happens. ” Watch the interview: During an interview with MSNBC’s Chris Hayes in March, Sarandon said that Trump might be a better option for president than Hillary Clinton. “I think Bernie would probably encourage people to [support Hillary if he loses] because he doesn’t have any ego in this thing,” she said. “But I think a lot of people are, ‘Sorry, I just can’t bring myself to [vote for Hillary]. ’” Sarandon added, “You know, some people feel that Donald Trump will bring the revolution immediately. If he gets in, then things will really explode. Some people feel that. ”