A Mexican national who has been previously deported at least three times was arrested in connection to a north Texas shooting and crime spree. Two people were murdered during the September 26 rampage. [Silvestre Franco Luviano, 40, allegedly began his crime spree on Monday at about 10:30 PM. Police dispatchers in Dallas and neighboring Cedar Hill received calls about someone shooting a gun near Interstate 20 and Spur 408.    Ruben Moreno was in a Hummer when he was shot and killed. Welton Betts, 44, was also killed while others sustained   threatening injuries, Fox4 in Dallas reported. Betts was pumping gas when he was killed.  The crime spree continued throughout the night where Luviano reportedly carjacked several cars and even broke into a house to steal another vehicle, the local Fox station reported. He eventually worked his way south on Interstate 35 where he stole another car and kidnapped a man in Georgetown, north of Austin. The man was eventually released. Officers were led by a tip to a relative’s apartment in Georgetown. As police were beginning negotiations with the man, he reportedly set a fire in the apartment as a diversion. When he fled the building, he was captured by police. A firearm was found in the apartment, according to another Fox4 report. Officials later learned Luviano has a history of prior arrests and has been deported at least three times in the past. “I would say at this point in time he has no status to be in the United States,” Supervisory Deputy U. S. Marshal Hector Gomez, with the Lone Star Fugitive Task Force, told Fox. Luviano has previous convictions for multiple counts of burglary of a vehicle, driving without a license and possession of a controlled substance. The jail records reveal at least two previous felony convictions in Williamson County. Luviano was being held in the Williamson County jail on charges of possession of a controlled substance and murder, according to jail records obtained by Breitbart Texas. Has now been turned over to Dallas County officials on their murder warrant. He was booked into the Williamson County jail under the name Guillermo Luviano Franco. The name Silvestre Franco Luviano is listed as one of many aliases. His home address is listed as Weir, Texas. It is not known why he was in the Dallas area. Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas. He is a founding member of the Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX.