BATON ROUGE, Louisiana  —   The mainstream media in Louisiana is finally calling out President Obama for vacationing at Martha’s Vineyard while the state experiences unprecedented flooding and cleanup. [“It’s time for President Barack Obama to visit the most anguished state in the union,” the Baton Rouge Advocate wrote in an editorial.  “Last week, as torrential rains brought death, destruction and misery to Louisiana, the president continued his vacation at Martha’s Vineyard, a playground for the posh and ” the editorial continued. Obama was reportedly briefed on the emergency situation in Louisiana, but then immediately went back to golfing, according to The Washington Times. The editorial noted that during Hurricane Katrina, which ravaged the New Orleans area and surrounding parishes, President George W. Bush was lambasted by pundits and the national press for simply taking a “ ” of the flooded areas. Obama was one of those critics, blasting Bush during a 2008 speech at Tulane University, as Breitbart News reported. “We can talk about what happened for a few days in 2005 and we should,” Obama said. “We can talk about levees that could not hold   …     about a president who only saw the people from the window of an airplane instead of down here on the ground, trying to provide comfort and aid. ” But, Obama has yet to even make an appearance in the flooded state, something the Advocate says is overdue. “It’s past time for the president to pay a personal visit, showing his solidarity with suffering Americans,” the editorial reads. “And if the president can interrupt his vacation for a swanky fundraiser for fellow Democrat Hillary Clinton, as he did on Monday, then surely he can make time to show up for a catastrophe that’s displaced thousands,” the editorial ended. More than 40, 000 homes across Louisiana have been flooded in the historic natural disaster and now at least 13 people have died. John Binder is a contributor for Breitbart Texas. Follow him on Twitter at @JxhnBinder.