In a final warning to the American people ahead of Tuesday’s election, the nation’s frontline immigration officers are calling upon voters to reject Hillary Clinton and her “radical” open borders vision that will “unleash” violence in American communities and “cause countless preventable deaths. ”[Although the nation’s border emergency goes virtually unreported by “  media,” Clinton’s immigration policies would greatly exacerbate the crisis, the officers warn in a statement written by the president of the National ICE Council, which represents the nation’s roughly 5, 000 frontline ICE officers, agents, and personnel.  “Hillary’s pledge for ‘open borders’ will mean disaster for our country, and turn the present border emergency into a cataclysm,” writes ICE Council President Chris Crane. “Hillary’s plan would unleash violent cartels and brutal transnational gangs into US communities and cause countless preventable deaths. ” Crane explains that the uncontrolled flood of record numbers of migrants into the country will be especially harmful on poor communities —   including Hispanic and immigrant communities that will bear “the economic brunt the illegal immigrant surge. ” ICE officers on the front lines are witnessing a deluge of illegal immigration unlike anything we have seen before. The   media won’t cover it. Our officers are being ordered to release recent   with no idea what their intentions are or what they are planning. Gang members, drug cartels and violent smugglers are taking advantage of the situation and threatening American communities. The influx is overwhelming public resources, especially in poor communities  —   including Hispanic communities and immigrant communities bearing the economic brunt of the illegal immigration surge. Both border patrol and ICE agents have reported that the current border surge is the “worst we’ve ever seen it” —   even surpassing the record influx experienced during 2014 border crisis. One ICE officer explained that with no room to house the incoming flood of migrants, agents have been forced to release illegals aliens —  potentially including “  perpetrators or terrorists whose intent is to harm Americans or our country as a whole” —   into American communities where they disappear “into the wind never to be seen by us again. ” In September the National ICE Council endorsed Donald Trump over Clinton and “urged all Americans, especially the millions of lawful immigrants living within our country, to support Donald J. Trump, and to protect American jobs, wages and lives. ” The endorsement marked the ICE Council’s   endorsement of any candidate for any elected office. In a statement announcing the endorsement, Crane warned against Clinton’s “radical plan” of “total amnesty plus open borders” that “would result in the loss of innocent American lives, mass victimization and death for many attempting to immigrate to the United States, the total gutting of interior enforcement, the handcuffing of ICE officers, and uncontrollable flood of illegal immigrants across U. S. borders. ” Crane warned that the agenda of   favored by Clinton, “results in the daily loss of life. ” By contrast, Donald Trump has pledged that he will enforce the nation’s immigration law and will advance an “America first” immigration policy that prioritizes the needs and interests of the American electorate. “After my inauguration, for the first time in decades, Americans will wake up in a country where their immigration laws are enforced,” Trump told Breitbart News earlier this year.