The upcoming   film I’m Not Ashamed, set for release later this month, centers on Rachel Joy Scott, a proud Christian student who became the first victim of the Columbine high school shooting in 1999. [The film, which has already stirred controversy ahead of its October 21 release, is based on Scott’s diaries, in which she reportedly professed a desire to be more open and active in her faith at school. Scott was just 17 years old when she was killed in the   shooting attack on the morning of April 20, 1999 in Littleton, Colorado.  A new clip from I’m Not Ashamed provided exclusively to Breitbart News gives viewers the first look at the film’s Columbine shooters Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold, played by actors David Errigo Jr. and Cory Chapman, respectively.  Get rid of all the fat, retarded, crippled, stupid, ignorant, rich, worthless people in this world,” Harris says in the clip, from a scene set in Columbine high school’s cafeteria. “No one is worthy of this planet. Only me and who I choose. Everyone should be sent out into space, and only the people I say should be left behind. ” The eventual killers then look on as a group of their fellow students is bullied by other students. The film  —   directed by Brian Baugh and starring Masey McLain as Scott  —   has already stirred controversy online after the filmmakers accused YouTube of   bias for pulling the film’s trailer from the video streaming site for months without providing an explanation. According to the Hollywood Reporter, I’m Not Ashamed producer Chuck Howard was told last October that the film’s trailer violated YouTube standards, and the clip was subsequently taken offline and the account behind it suspended. In a letter sent to YouTube, the filmmakers’ attorney Garrick Stotser claimed the removal of the film’s trailer from the site interfered with its marketing campaign, and seeks compensation for the 11 months of lost advertising opportunity. The letter accuses the streaming giant of failing to provide “any clear explanation or substantiation” for why the clip was pulled offline. The trailer was reportedly restored to YouTube only after the company was contacted by the Hollywood Reporter last week. YouTube responded in a statement to THR released Thursday: “With the massive volume of videos on our platform, sometimes we make the wrong call on content that is flagged by our community. When this is brought to our attention, we review the content and take appropriate action, including restoring videos or channels that were mistakenly removed. ” I’m Not Ashamed opens in theaters nationwide on October 21.    Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum