Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton met with a group of truckers who are committed to help spot and report human trafficking on our nation’s highways. Law enforcement professionals and truck drivers working together has proven to be an effective tool to stop the trafficking and abuse of many young girls in this country. [“Truckers are the eyes and ears of our Texas highways,” Attorney General Paxton told those gathered in San Antonio on Thursday. “This partnership brings law enforcement and the trucking industry together, educating them on the signs of human trafficking and how to report it. It helps ensure that victims will be identified and rescued, and that traffickers will find themselves behind bars. ”  Paxton first announced the program in March during a meeting in Houston, Breitbart Texas reported. Houston is the nation’s hub of human trafficking and has the highest number of reported trafficking cases, the AG stated. The meeting in San Antonio capped off a four city tour to bring attention to the seriousness of human trafficking and how truckers and other concerned individuals can help stop the problem. Paxton’s office has conducted more than fifty training sessions statewide since the beginning of this year. More than 4, 000 truck drivers and other Texans have been trained on what to look for when encountering potentially trafficked victims. The OAG website lists the four types of trafficking under Texas law: Traffickers cannot be identified by “one particular look. ” They are individuals “who are willing to treat other people like objects or commodities that they can buy, sell or exploit for their own benefit. ” According to the OAG, human traffickers can be: The attorney general asks that if you see someone you suspect may be a trafficking victim, take action. Even if you are unsure if a crime is being committed, talk with the person privately if you can if you are able to do so in a circumstance that is  . If you believe that having such a conversation would be dangerous, make a call to the National Hotline at    . You can also text “Help” or “Info” to 233733. The Hotline is staffed 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Information can be reported anonymously to the Texas Department of Public Safety (DPS) the OAG Human Trafficking Division (  ) or the Child Protective Services Hotline if a child is involved (   ). Lana Shadwick is a contributing writer and legal analyst for Breitbart Texas. She has served as a prosecutor and associate judge in Texas. Follow her on Twitter @LanaShadwick2.