Even the   media is now acknowledging that Donald Trump “has a point” when he blasts Hilary and Obama for creating ISIS. [“Hillary Clinton is vulnerable. ISIS did gain strength during her time as Secretary of State,” said ABC News correspondent Martha Raddatz.  Conservative talk show host Hugh Hewitt tried to give Mr. Trump an out. “I know what you meant,” he suggested. “You meant that he [Obama] created the vacuum, he lost the peace. ” “No,” Trump replied. “I meant, he’s the founder of ISIS. I do. He was the most valuable player. I give him the most valuable player award. I give her, too, by the way, Hillary Clinton. ” Trump is correct  —   and quite literally, so. First, a document. Then some history. Thanks to Judicial Watch, we now have an August 2012 defense intelligence report on the civil war in Syria and the situation in Iraq that openly states that the policy of the United States and its allies was to support the Salafist opposition to Syrian president Bashar  . That opposition, at the time spearheaded by Al Qaeda in Iraq (AQI) and the Islamic State of Iraq (ISI) soon morphed into the Islamic State of Iraq and   ISIS. The report appears to have originated from U. S. Central Command (CENTCOM) in Iraq, well before their intelligence product was tarnished by political interference from top commanders in 2014 aimed at diminishing the threat from ISIS. Here’s what the report, originally stamped SECRET, actually says:  AQI, through the spokesman of the Islamic State of Iraq (ISI) Abu Muhammad   Adnani  …     is calling on the Sunnis in Iraq, especially the tribes in the border regions (between Iraq and Syria) to wage war against the Syrian regime  …     Opposition forces are trying to control the eastern areas (Hasaka and Der Zor) adjacent to the Western Iraqi provinces (Mosul and Anbar) in addition to neighboring Turkish borders. Western countries, the Gulf States and Turkey are supporting these efforts  …     [emphasis mine] There is the possibility of establishing a declared or undeclared Salafist principality in Eastern Syria (Hasak and Der Zor) and this is exactly what the supporting powers to the opposition want  …     It is no secret that the United States was supporting the Syrian opposition in 2012 and even until very recently. In December 2012, thanks in large measure to the active lobbying of Mrs. Clinton and U. S. Ambassador to Syria Robert Ford, Obama declared that the United States considered the opposition as “the legitimate representative of the Syrian people. ” What was secret until the release of this August 2012 defense intelligence report is that the United States knew that the Syrian opposition was dominated by al Qaeda in Iraq and the Islamic State of Iraq, groups that merged and morphed into what today we call ISIS. So Donald Trump is literally correct. Obama and Hillary created ISIS. They figure among the founding fathers of the world’s most brutal terrorist organization. They deserve ISIS Most Valuable Player awards for their efforts. Some of America’s enemies, such as Ayatollah Khamenei of Iran, have also accused the United States of creating ISIS  —   but as a tool for encroaching on Iran’s efforts to dominate the Muslim world. In fact, Obama and Hillary’s policies have simultaneously favored Iran and its rise to regional dominance, standing aside as Iran filled the vacuum in Iraq with its own militias and allowing Iranian troops and weapons to flow onto battlefields in Yemen, Syria, Lebanon, Libya and beyond. Other documents obtained by Judicial Watch show that the United States was also complicit with arms shipments from Benghazi to the jihadi rebel groups in Syria. These particular shipments were distinct from the more publicized case of al Entisar, a Libyan fishing vessel that arrived in Iskanderiyah, Turkey, crammed with weapons in late August 2012. The shipments described in this recently declassified document were sent directly to small Syrian ports under rebel control and included RPG   sniper rifles, and ammunition for 125mm and 155mm howitzers. As I revealed two years ago, the U. S. backed arms shipments to ISIS and its allies in Syria appear to have been run out of the White House by   advisor (and current CIA director) John Brennan. Running the clandestine arms shipments outside official channels allowed Obama and his allies  —   including Mrs. Clinton, who supported the arms shipments  —   to withhold that information from Congress. Deflecting attention from these arms shipments is precisely why Obama and Hillary hatched their “     ” narrative as the cause of the Benghazi attacks. It was a deliberate deception to trick the American people and   their misdeeds. Obama’s disastrous withdrawal of U. S. combat forces from Iraq in December 2011 clearly enhanced the ability of AQI and ISI to seize control of large portions of Iraqi territory and certainly contributed to the birth of ISIS. It also opened the door for Iran to fill the vacuum. But as the August 2012 defense intelligence report states, that was the plan all along. Obama and Hillary wanted to create an   enclave in Syria, “in order to isolate the Syrian regime, which is considered the strategic depth of the Shia expansion (Iraq and Iran). ” Donald Trump was right. Again. Kenneth R. Timmerman is the author of Deception: the Making of the YouTube Video Hillary and Obama Blamed for Benghazi, released on July 19 and is now in its 4th printing. Listen to Timmerman on Breitbart News Daily on SiriusXM: 