A Mexican man, wanted for murder in his home country, was   on Friday after being apprehended crossing the border into Texas. [The Homeland Security department of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) has a special office in San Antonio called “Enforcement and Removals Operations” (ERO). On Friday, ERO agents escorted Juan Carlos   across the Gateway International Bridge in Brownsville in the custody of the Mexican authorities.  Mr.   was first arrested in 2007, near Roma, Texas, and convicted in October of that year. He was issued an order for removal. The man was deported on November 15, 2007. What ICE officials did not know at the time is that   was wanted in Mexico for a murder in 2006, so no additional information was related to Mexican police (Policia Federal) prior to his repatriation. The San Antonio ERO office was informed Nov. 9, 2015 by Mexico’s Procuraduria General de la Republica that there was an active arrest warrant for   according to a story in the San Antonio  . He was wanted in connection with the killing of the man with a knife in 2006. The only information on that crime is that while visiting a man’s house, there was drinking, an argument, and then   allegedly stabbed the man to death. He then was reported to have stolen the victim’s pickup truck.   returned to the United States last fall, coming over the border at Penitas, just west of Mission, Texas, and was arrested by the ICE Fugitive Operations Team. On Friday, with all the paperwork done, he was turned over to Mexican law enforcement officials on the north end of the International Bridge. Just last month, Breitbart Texas reported that even killers who are convicted in the United States, imprisoned for a time and then deported have been found to have come north again. And killers aren’t the only ones being deported more than once, as Breitbart Texas reported in 2014. The field office director for the ERO operation in San Antonio, Enrique M. Lucero, said through an ICE news release that “Removing criminal foreign fugitives from the United States is a top ICE priority. ” He added, “The cooperation between the governments of the United States and Mexico resulted in this foreign fugitive being turned over to this native country where he will stand trial for an alleged murder. ” According to data released this month, in 2015, ICE agents removed or returned 235, 413 people who were in the United States illegally. Rob Milford is a reporter for Breitbart Texas. You can follow him on Facebook.