Attorney General Loretta Lynch says the Obama administration is scrubbing certain portions of Orlando terrorist shooter Omar Mateen’s 911 call during his attack on a gay nightclub in order to ensure the contents of the phone call are not used for terrorist propaganda purposes. [On his talk radio show last night, Breitbart Jerusalem‘s bureau chief and senior investigative reporter Aaron Klein pointed out that the Obama administration did not take similar precautions when comments from White House officials helped to publicized an obscure, inflammatory   YouTube video by repeatedly blaming the video for the September 11, 2012 Benghazi attacks. The video fueled protests throughout the Muslim world.  Listen to the audio of Klein’s comments here: Lynch on Sunday told NBC’s Chuck Todd that the FBI on Monday will release edited transcripts of Mateen’s 911 calls. She explained some parts were being edited out in part to ensure against furthering Mateen’s terrorist propaganda. “What we’re not going to do is further proclaim this man’s pledges of allegiance to terrorist groups, and further his propaganda,” Lynch said. “We are not going to hear him make his assertions of allegiance [to the Islamic State]. ” Reacted Klein on his show: But here’s the thing. If the administration is really so interested in stopping terrorist propaganda, then why the double standard? How is it and why is it that the Obama administration got away with, remember back in Benghazi? When there was a video that almost nobody ever heard of. We were told that this was the reason, even though it had nothing to do with anything, that this was the reason for the Benghazi attack in the first place because of some unknown YouTube video and then certain threats against the Quran. It had nothing to do with anything. But actually, by the Obama administration drawing attention to the video, what they did, and we know this, they accomplished this, is that they fueled Islamic extremism. They fueled attacks against the West. They fueled Islamic protests throughout the Muslim world because this administration had another agenda which was to cover up whatever was really happening in Benghazi. They didn’t want anyone to know in the run up, just weeks before the election in 2012. If it got out that it was an Islamic terrorist attack that would have massively damaged Obama. So he was willing back then to risk American lives. He was willing back then to fuel Islamic propaganda, Islamic terrorist propaganda to (publicize) this video. And so now they’re claiming that’s the reason they’re scrubbing Islam and Islamic State from this 911 call? I don’t think so. It doesn’t make sense. On September 16, 2012, UN Ambassador Susan Rice infamously appeared on five morning talk shows  —   on ABC, CBS, NBC, Fox News, and CNN  —   telling the story of protests that erupted “spontaneously” as a result of a “hateful video” offending Islam, thus drawing more attention to the   video. That morning, Rice told CBS’s Face the Nation, for example: But based on the best information we have to date, what our assessment is as of the present is in fact what began spontaneously in Benghazi as a reaction to what had transpired some hours earlier in Cairo where, of course, as you know, there was a violent protest outside of our embassy  —   sparked by this hateful video. Hillary Clinton also repeatedly blamed the Benghazi attacks on the video. The Obama administration even spent $70, 000 in taxpayer funds on Pakistani television ads featuring Obama and Clinton denouncing the   film.