Texas Governor Greg Abbott’s response on Twitter to Obama saying he will be imposing more gun control  —   “COME AND TAKE IT. ”[The Texas Governor who himself graced the front of a Texas Monthly magazine cover armed with a shotgun, tweeted, “Obama wants to impose more gun control. My response. #? COME AND TAKE IT @NRA #tcot #PJNET”  Obama wants to impose more gun control. My response. #? COME  TAKE IT @NRA #tcot #PJNET https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Greg Abbott (@GregAbbott_TX) January 1, 2016, His tweet which includes a “COME AND TAKE IT” flag has gone viral. The flag, also known as the “Gonzales Flag,” is an iconic symbol of Texas independence. The flag was originally flown during a battle in Gonzales, Texas, in 1835 during the lead up to the Texas war of independence from Mexico. The governor attached to his tweet The Washington Post article “Obama plans curbs on guns. ” The article stated that the President will meet Monday with U. S. Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch and will thereafter announce his executive actions on gun control. Obama made this statement during his weekly radio address, released a day earlier than usual the Post reported. The article said that one of those reforms is likely to “require some unlicensed gun dealers to get licenses and conduct background checks on potential buyers. ” The tweet by the Texas governor has received 2. 6K retreets, and 2. 8 likes, as of the time of publication. Prior to being elected governor, Abbott was the longest serving attorney general in the Lone Star state’s history. In that capacity he sued President Obama 31 times, including leading the way for the fight against the President’s unlawful executive order on amnesty. As reported by Breitbart Texas, on the first day after he won the election for Governor, Abbott vowed he would sign an open carry bill if the Texas Legislature sent one to his desk. The Texas Governor tweeted, “I’m warming up my signing pen: Texas Legislature Ready to Move Forward on Open Carry Bill” and attached Breitbart Texas’ Bob Price’s article. Breitbart Texas was at the Texas Capitol on January 1 when Second Amendment advocates were there to celebrate the first day of open carry in Texas, as reported. Catherine Frazier, a spokeswoman for Sen. Ted Cruz ( .) was reported to have said that “President Obama is trying to distract Americans from his failure to address the true threat of radical Islamic terrorism, and instead going after the rights of   American citizens  —   it is complete lunacy. If Ted Cruz is elected president, the lawlessness will end on Day One, and Americans’ personal liberties will be restored and protected. ” Lana Shadwick is a writer and legal analyst for Breitbart Texas. She has served as an associate judge and prosecutor. Follow her on Twitter @LanaShadwick2