In an apparent move to censor supporters of the Mississippi state flag, University of Mississippi officials confiscated signs and flags from attendees at the Ole   football game. [During the   game, a number of students and Ole Miss fans brought signs which read “Let The Band Play Dixie” and the state’s flag in revolt against an effort to discredit and change the state’s colors.  Attendees saw their signs and flags supporting Mississippi pride confiscated from them, a move that was reportedly called for by the University’s Chancellor, Dr. Jeffery Vitter, according to a Breitbart Texas source. University officials told local media that banners and flags have always been prohibited from the Ole Miss stadium, but attendees of the game who spoke with Breitbart Texas said University security was only confiscating materials related to the state flag. Ole Miss university police ordered to take “Let The Band Play Dixie” signs and the Mississippi state flag. pic. twitter.   —   Old Row (@OldRowOfficial) September 18, 2016,  One game attendee who had his sign and flag taken, Mike Espildora, took to his Instagram account, writing “Ole Miss did a great job displaying their pride and was wrongfully and violently shutdown, the fight isn’t over yet,” referring to the broader assault on the state flag by political correctness on college campuses. Mississippi State University and the Mississippi University for Women have already removed the state’s flag from their campuses, as a politically   movement claims the banner promotes a racist ideology dating back to the Confederacy. The Mississippi state flag and other icons have been under fire across the southern states in recent months. New Orleans Mayor Mitch Landrieu demanded that four Civil   monuments come down in the city’s public square for inciting “hate” and “racism,” as Breitbart Texas previously reported. In New Orleans, that same political correctness has come out in the form of violent threats to the city administration and the New Orleans Police Department (NOPD). Most recently, the Black Lives   group ‘Take ‘Em Down Nola’ has threatened to remove multiple historical monuments across the city, vandalizing them with the message “Take ‘em down, or we will. ” John Binder is a contributor for Breitbart Texas. Follow him on Twitter at @JxhnBinder.