Former New York Congressman Anthony Weiner deleted his Twitter account this morning, after his racy online behavior was again splashed on the front pages of the New York tabloids. [This time Weiner was caught sending racy pictures to a woman while his son was in bed with him  —   a new low for the man married to Hillary Clinton’s top aide, Huma Abedin.  EXCLUSIVE: Anthony Weiner sexted a busty brunette while his son was in bed with him https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   New York Post (@nypost) August 29, 2016,  EXCLUSIVE: Anthony Weiner sexted a busty brunette while his son was in bed with him https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   New York Post (@nypost) August 29, 2016,  Weiner’s account was active early this morning before disappearing altogether, suggesting that there is an organized effort to stem the damage. One of his last tweets featured Weiner joking that his behavior on Twitter caused the company to release a “quality filter” to filter out bad tweets.   …    . pic. twitter.   —   Charlie Spiering (@charliespiering) August 29, 2016,  Abedin, the focus of a recent Vanity Fair profile, can’t shake the ongoing scandalous behavior of her husband, despite several attempts to reboot her image. She cited her Muslim faith giving her strength to move on, despite repeated embarrassing scandals. “I tried to block out all the noise and move on with my life,” Abedin said citing her faith and a “a really supportive group of friends and colleagues. ” Weiner initially lied to Abedin after the photo was posted, claiming that he was hacked, before coming clean about his behavior. During his failed New York City mayoral run, Abedin again stood by Weiner in 2013, as he admitted that his racy online behavior with other women continued. “I love him. I have forgiven him. I believe in him. And, as we have said from the beginning, we are moving forward,” Abedin said at the time. WATCH: She also cited “therapy” for helping the couple stay together, and the future of their son. “Our marriage like many others has had its ups and its downs,” she said. “It took a lot of work, and a whole lot of therapy, to get to a place where I could forgive Anthony. ” The Clinton campaign has been silent in response to the new photos.