The latest NBC   Street Journal poll says that Hillary Clinton leads Donald Trump by 11 points following the reveal of an    tape of Trump making lewd comments. [According to this poll, the national race stands at Clinton 46 percent, Trump 35 percent, with 9 percent for Libertarian Gary Johnson and two percent for Jill Stein of the Green Party. The poll of 500 registered voters had a 4. 4 percent margin of error, and was conducted on Saturday and Sunday, so it factored in reactions to the Trump tape story, but not Sunday night’s second presidential debate.  The poll sample included 43 percent Democrat and   36 percent Republican and   and 12 percent “strictly independent” respondents. “In a    matchup, Clinton’s lead over Trump grows to 14 percent (52 percent to Trump’s 38 percent),” NBC reports. “And among all registered voters, Clinton’s lead is 13 points, her largest advantage over Trump since the poll began testing the pair last September. ” The poll also found a   advantage for Democrats on the question of which party the voters would like to see in control of Congress, up from a   edge for the Democrats last month. As for the Trump tape, the poll respondents said it should be an issue in the presidential race by a 52 percent to 42 percent margin. 41 percent said the remarks were “completely unacceptable,” while 31 percent said they were “inappropriate, but typical of how some men talk in private with other men. ” Interestingly, only 9 percent of Republicans surveyed said they wanted their congressional candidates to renounce their backing of Trump, while 14 percent wanted their other candidates to call upon Trump to drop out of the race. That’s not a question any presidential candidate wants pollsters asking in October, to be sure, but weekend news coverage gave the impression both of those numbers would be a good deal higher. While both candidates remain underwater on approval ratings, Trump’s negatives are up quite a bit. Hillary Clinton scored 40 percent positive versus 50 percent negative responses, while Trump’s ratio was 29 percent to 63 percent   …     and 52 percent of Trump’s negative responses were “very negative. ”