Congressman Kevin Cramer ( ) says he’s ready for the fight against President Obama’s executive action on gun control, and adds he’s worried about the ramifications to society of this type of government overreach by the President of the United States. [“I’m ready to get into the fight. This is so fundamental. The Second Amendment as well as the First are just so fundamental to the American experiment and we just have to stand up to it,” Cramer stressed during an exclusive interview with Breitbart News.  The response I’m getting from constituents in North Dakota concerns me. What concerns me is, we’re talking about a very fundamental right where the topic itself is a gun. For these people, it’s a very personal thing. It’s very passionate. I worry about not the passion that it inflames, but beyond passion. When I hear people talk, I can tell they are really, really upset. There is a line they don’t want crossed and they see the government coming across it. The president is well protected, but I worry just about frankly, the ramifications to society from this kind of overreach. “Obviously, it’s going to be a very big topic when we get back,” he said about Congress stopping Obama’s most recent executive action. Obama is expected to go around Congress on Tuesday and issue an executive action on gun control, expanding background checks. CNN also reports, “[The] White House will introduce a new requirement for individuals ‘in the business of selling firearms’ to register as licensed gun dealers, effectively narrowing the   ‘gun show loophole,’ which exempts most small sellers from keeping formal sales records. ” Speaker of the House Paul Ryan ( ) released a statement responding to Obama’s move on Monday, saying, Obama’s effort to stop gun violence through this unilateral action is a “dangerous level of executive overreach. ” “While we don’t yet know the details of the plan, the president is at minimum subverting the legislative branch, and potentially overturning its will,” read Ryan’s statement. “No president should be able to reverse legislative failure by executive fiat, not even incrementally. The American people deserve a president who will respect their constitutional rights  —   all of them. ” Cramer said Ryan’s statement was “rather clear. ” I was pleased with his statement because it gets to two issues. I mean one, it gets to the issue of the Second Amendment to begin with and further assault on it and how absolutely inappropriate that is for the Commander in Chief, but then it raises the second issue of recurring theme of this presidency, which of course is ignoring the will of Congress, going around the will of Congress. So, you really have two major conflicts in one action. That’s very concerning. “I fully expect there will be resolutions, bills. We’re going to begin the appropriations process, so I fully expect there will be amendments   …     that will be offered and that’s from Congress,” Cramer told Breitbart News. “I obviously expect gun rights groups to go straight to court and of course, it will be a windfall for the lawyers once again. This president has been great for lawyers,” he added.