Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton joked that she realized she was pandering to   during an interview with the New York radio show The Breakfast Club.  When asked what item she always carried with her, she replied, “Hot sauce. ” “You getting in Formation right now?” asked one of the amazed hosts, citing the lyrics of the Beyoncé song about keeping hot sauce in her bag. He suggested   would likely see her comment as “pandering to black people. ” “O. K.   …     Is it workin’?” she replied, laughing. Clinton proceeded to spend the entire interview pandering to the   hosts and the audience. Here is a list: “It was so amazing   …     I sat there and I was just like amazed   …     unbelievable, what an incredible performer   …     I can’t believe, just a natural phenomenon,” she said, praising the singer as having the “most amazing stamina, endurance, [and] coordination. ” “I was really tired that day. ” “It was a poor choice of words. ” She reminded the hosts that she launched her campaign during an event that he hosted on criminal justice reform. She added that even though one host had a criminal record, it would not be a problem. “There is systemic racism that has to be called out and addressed,” she said. “Look. White people have to recognize that there is systemic racism. ” “I think Steve looks pretty sharp,” she said, after one of the hosts mocked Steve Harvey’s baggy suits. “I did win. But you know I didn’t rub it in,” she said. “I went to Michelle Obama’s birthday party  …    and Beyoncé performed. ” she said. “I said to Bill, ‘Can you believe it, the   has asked me to be Secretary of State twice? ’” she recalled. “I’ll put that on my list,” she replied, when one of the hosts told her that it would help her “really get the hood. ” “She was the first   woman to pass the Mississippi bar, a friend of Dr. King’s,” she said. 13: Admitted she was a bad dancer: “I’m always in trouble when I try to dance in public   …     I have no coordination,” she said. “Let the record show, when she walked in, I gave her a handshake, she did it the right way, she brought it in, cuffed it and everything,” one of the hosts said.