In a   interview with Esquire magazine, George Clooney named Donald Trump as the reason he can’t “defend” America from critics around the world. [“How am I to defend us when the only voice that’s coming out from across the sea is banning Muslims? That’s the problem with what’s going on. It’s not that it’s gonna happen it’s that we’re broadcasting this to the rest of the world,” Clooney said.  “Here’s the thing about Trump —  I was just in Amsterdam, and I’m up onstage, and they go, ‘What’s going on with Trump? ’” he said. “And I said: “Look, we’re not going to do these things. We’re not going to deport Muslims. We’re not going to build a wall. ” The leading Republican presidential candidate has been bombarded by harsh criticism from members of the mainstream press and Hollywood elites like George Clooney after Trump announced his plans to build a wall on the U. S.  border and to temporarily shut down Third World Muslim immigration into America. “But the problem is all these other countries hear these things, and all of a sudden you see in France that [ ] Le Pen is going, ‘Bravo,’” Clooney added. “You get all of these nutcases on the   fringe saying, ‘Well, if America thinks that  …    ’ That is the real problem with Trump —  his ideas bleed into the rest of the world. ” The Hail, Caesar! star conducted the Esquire interview in early March, just after Donald Trump discussed the size of his penis during a Fox news GOP debate. “I guarantee you, there is no problem. I guarantee you,” Trump said referring to his private part. “Last night’s debate will be known as the      debate,” Clooney said. “When you could have been saying, ‘Let’s talk about what we really are going to do about refugees. ’” The    actor also discussed his rosy relationship with Democratic White House hopeful, Hillary Clinton. “I was very, very, very glad that she was Secretary of State and that she was an informed, responsible, smart person,” Clooney said of the first time he met with Clinton. “I don’t think she’s nearly as good a campaigner as she would be a leader. ” Clooney and his wife hosted a $   fundraiser for Hillary Clinton. The event reportedly netted $15 million for Clinton and the DNC. Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson