Sen. Ted Cruz ( ) told a local radio show in California on Monday morning that the Drudge Report, the most popular conservative news website, has “become the attack site for the Donald Trump campaign. ”[  Cruz was interview on The Mike Slater Show on KFMB 760 AM. Host Mike Slater asked Cruz (15:16) “What do you think of Drudge Report lately? Not even about Trump, but their   headlines?” Cruz responded: Look, Drudge Report over the years has done a good job highlighting the excesses of the left and the excesses of liberalism, and about the past month the Drudge Report has basically become the attack site for the Donald Trump campaign. And so every day they have the latest Trump attack. They’re directed at me. It  —   by all appearances, Roger Stone now decides what’s on Drudge, and most days they have a    article that is some attack on me, and it’s  —   whatever the Trump campaign is pushing that day will be the banner headline on Drudge. By the way, they no longer cover news. Remember they used to have things like election results? They don’t put those on Drudge anymore. When we win a state, suddenly the state doesn’t matter. You know Colorado  —   there was no red siren on Drudge when we won all 34 delegates in Colorado. That wasn’t news, because  —   I mean listen, that’s fine. If people want to get on the “Trump train,” they can. I actually think we need real and meaningful solutions to the problems in this country, and as president my focus is going to be on three things: jobs, freedom and security. My number one priority is bringing jobs back to America, raising wages for everyone, making it easier for people struggling to achieve the American Dream. That’s my focus. I’m going to let others worry about the silly political game and the circus. Slater returned to talking about Drudge: “I’ve always thought it interesting when the debate is still going on and and they’ll put a poll up, who won the debate. It’s literally in the middle of the debate, and they say who won the debate  —   and then Trump walks off the stage and says, ‘Well, everyone says I won’  …    ”. Cruz took the focus off of talking about Drudge to focus on Trump: Well I will say this, Mike: actions speak louder than words. Donald is terrified to debate. He won’t debate anymore. He’s just, he’s skipping all the debates, and the reason is he liked it when there were 10 or 11 people on stage because he didn’t have to speak very much, and all of the bickering dominated everything. Now that it is down to    me and Donald Trump, and one or the other of us is going to be the nominee, there are only two people with any plausible path to winning a majority of the delegates, and that is either me or Donald Trump  —   and, by the way, California is going to decide it. California, for the first time in decades, matters in the Republican primary. On Sunday, the Drudge Report carried several headlines regarding the Colorado Republican Party’s delegate selection process. When asked, Cruz said that he did not expect that the primary would be decided by California as of a year ago, “but nobody anticipated Donald Trump. Donald Trump is a unique, you know, it is a reality star, substanceless, attack and cursing and personal insults. You know, I don’t think that’s what politics should be about. I think politics should be about solving the real problems that Americans are facing. ” Cruz later addressed a campaign rally in Irvine, California. On Monday evening, he was scheduled to join the San Diego County Republican Party, holding a rally at the group’s monthly meeting. Reports from the party are that all 2, 000 tickets were taken in less than 24 hours, and another 1, 000 are on a waiting list hoping to get in. Follow Michelle Moons on Twitter @MichelleDiana 