With mounting questions about Hillary Clinton’s health, a Rasmussen poll released Thursday shows a significant majority of voters think that major Presidential candidates should publicly release their most recent health records. The poll found the percentage of voters who support the release of health records increasing more than twenty points since 2014. [The poll of 1, 000 likely voters has a margin of error of 3% and a 95% level of confidence. According to the Rasmussen’s analysis, it’s been a dramatic shift.  59% of voters also now believe all major presidential candidates should release at least their most recent medical records to the public. That’s up dramatically from 38% in May 2014 when questions about Clinton’s health were first being raised. Thirty percent (30%) don’t think candidates should have to release their recent medical records, while 11% are undecided. Hillary’s history of   problems paired with recent “ ” has raised questions about Hillary’s fitness to serve in the world’s most challenging job. In late 2012, ABC News reported that Hillary had been diagnosed with a dangerous brain blood clot, cerebral venous thrombosis, that had to be treated with anticoagulants and led to a delay in congressional hearings over the attack on the American consulate in Benghazi that led to the death of four Americans. Neurologist Dr. Daniel Kassicieh, D. O. told Breitbart News’ Alex Swoyer in January: For someone who has treated many   syndrome patients and that’s what I really believe she’s suffering from based on reading these reports and reading what’s happened. I think she has latent   syndrome, and I can understand that as a politician they would want to be covering that up. I would say as a neurologist having seen many   syndrome patients that I would not want a president who I knew had   syndrome being because their super   cognitive abilities are clearly impaired and even their routine multitasking   abilities are affected because   syndrome patients in general don’t tolerate even moderate work,   environments. Email leaks also revealed Hillary’s closest aide Huma Abedin saying that Hillary is “often confused. ” Questions into Hillary’s brain health have intensified recently as pictures of staff helping her scale a small flight of stairs and supporting her as she stood on a soapbox spurred the launch of #HillarysHealth across social media. A handler steadies shaky Hillary, preventing her from falling. #HillarysHealth pic. twitter.   —   Mike Cernovich (@Cernovich) August 9, 2016,  During his presidential run in 2008, John McCain was eventually forced to allow the media to review his medical records after a sustained media outcry that voters have the right to see medical records in order to determine his fitness for the office of President.   of those polled also thought that presidential candidates from major parties should release their tax returns. Dustin Stockton is a political reporter for Breitbart News, a community liaison for Gun Owners of America, and a political strategist. Follow him on Twitter @DustinStockton or  Facebook.