Hillary Clinton collected campaign cash and participated in a    session at a dinner fundraiser held by billionaire entertainment mogul Haim Saban and his wife Cheryl at their Beverly Hills home Monday night. [Walt Disney Co. CEO Bob Iger, Chernin Group founder Peter Chernin, MarketShare CEO Jon Vein, former DreamWorks Animation chief Jeffrey Katzenberg, CAA agent Michael Kives and Los Angeles 2024 Olympics bid chief Casey Wasserman served as event   according to Variety.  Actors Will Ferrell and Tony Goldwyn and   CEO and former California gubernatorial candidate Meg Whitman were also reportedly in attendance. Attendees told Variety that Clinton discussed policy issues at the event, including infrastructure, education and the Clinton Foundation, reportedly emphasizing the good works the organization has done and reminding attendees that all recent presidents have set up charitable foundations. Tickets for the event reportedly went for $100, 000 per couple. Around 80 people attended, according to the outlet. Saban  —   founder of Saban Entertainment, which became known in the 1990s for producing children’s television shows like Power Rangers  —   is one of the biggest entertainment industry contributors to both Clinton’s campaign and the Democratic Party. By February, he had donated $6. 4 million between the campaign,   super PAC Priorities USA and smaller Democrat Party committees. Earlier Monday, Clinton attended a $2, 700   fundraising event at the home of NBA legend Magic Johnson that reportedly drew more than 500 guests, including actors Denzel Washington and Samuel L. Jackson, Sen. Barbara Boxer ( ) and Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti. On Tuesday, Clinton is expected to attend a lunch fundraiser at the Los Angeles home of pop star Justin Timberlake and his wife, actress Jessica Biel. Attendees expected at the event include actors Jennifer Aniston and Tobey Maguire, ICM chief Chris Silbermann, agent Scooter Braun and manager Rick Yorn. Clinton was expected to attend seven fundraisers in California in three days as part of an aggressive fundraising push before Labor Day weekend. The candidate taped an appearance on Jimmy Kimmel Live! earlier Monday.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum