Actress Mia Farrow has compared her former husband, director Woody allen, to accused serial rapist Bill Cosby. [Cosby was charged with felony aggravated indecent assault in Pennsylvania on Wednesday, and later released on a $1 million bond. While Cosby will soon make his way into a Pennsylvania courtroom for allegedly drugging and sexually assaulting a woman in 2004, Allen has avoided being criminally charged, despite strong evidence he molested his adopted daughter in 1992.  After hearing news of the criminal charge against Cosby on Wednesday, Mia Farrow took to her Twitter page to post about her former husband, who allegedly assaulted her     daughter Dylan Farrow. “What’s this about Bill Cosby and Woody Allen?” she wrote. What’s this about Bill Cosby and Woody Allen?  —   mia farrow (@MiaFarrow) December 30, 2015,  Farrow’s son, former MSNBC host Ronan Farow, also posted about the Cosby charge: So happy to live in a society where all it takes to get the legal system moving against powerful men is testimony from more than 50 women.  —   Ronan Farrow (@RonanFarrow) December 30, 2015,  Hollywood celebrities, such as Lena Dunham, Judd Apatow and Amy Schumer, have also sounded off against Cosby on Twitter, while remaining silent on accusations against other Hollywood filmmakers accused of similar crimes against women and children. According to Vanity Fair’s Maureen Orth, who authored two   articles about Allen’s alleged abuse of Dylan, the case against Woody Allen was strong: Allen had been in therapy for alleged inappropriate behavior toward Dylan with a child psychologist before the abuse allegation was presented to the authorities or made public. Mia Farrow had instructed her babysitters that Allen was never to be left alone with Dylan  …    . Allen refused to take a polygraph administered by the Connecticut state police. Instead, he took one from someone hired by his legal team. The Connecticut state police refused to accept the test as evidence  …    . In his   [custody] decision, Judge [Elliott] Wilk found that Mr. Allen’s behavior toward Dylan was “grossly inappropriate and that measures must be taken to protect her. ” The judge also recounts Farrow’s misgivings regarding Allen’s behavior toward Dylan from the time she was between two and three years old. According to the judge’s decision, Farrow told Allen, “You look at her [Dylan] in a sexual way. You fondled her . . . You don’t give her any breathing room. You look at her when she’s naked. ”  …    . The state attorney, Maco, said publicly he did have probable cause to press charges against Allen but declined, due to the fragility of the “child victim. ” Maco told me that he refused to put Dylan through an exhausting trial, and without her on the stand, he could not prosecute Allen. Allen later contended that Farrow had coached    Dylan into making the accusation as a form of payback against him for his romantic relationship with Mia’s adopted daughter,   Previn. Judge Wilk disagreed with that conclusion, stating “there is no credible evidence to support Mr. Allen’s contention that Ms. Farrow coached Dylan or that Ms. Farrow acted upon a desire for revenge against him for seducing  . ” Farrow was awarded sole custody of their children, and Allen lost all subsequent appeals against her and was ordered to pay more than $1 million of her legal fees. Years later, their daughter Dylan, now an adult, detailed the alleged molestation in a letter published in The New York Times in February 2014: When I was seven years old, Woody Allen took me by the hand and led me into a dim,   attic on the second floor of our house. He told me to lay on my stomach and play with my brother’s electric train set. Then he sexually assaulted me. He talked to me while he did it, whispering that I was a good girl, that this was our secret, promising that we’d go to Paris and I’d be a star in his movies. As Orth notes, Dylan’s account of the alleged assault “was consistent with the testimony of three adults who were present that day” and was partially corroborated by several adult witnesses at the time of the investigation. Several witnesses have described unusual and inappropriate behavior between Allen and young Dylan that day and prior to this alleged incident, noting that Allen seemed to have an “obsession and strange intensity” with the   . While the case against Allen was undeniably strong, he was never tried. Allen isn’t the only Hollywood filmmaker accused of sexual abuse who is drawing comparisons to Cosby. Comedian Eddie Griffin contrasted the way Hollywood stars have responded to the allegations against Cosby with their silent response to director Roman Polanski’s rape conviction. In 1977, Polanski was charged for sexually assaulting a young girl in Los Angeles, California, after giving her a Quaalude and plying her with champagne. Despite being drugged,    Samantha Gailey (now Samantha Geimer) repeatedly told Polanski “no” as he proceeded to rape and sodomize her, according to her grand jury testimony. Like Cosby with many of his alleged victims, Polanski had lured Geimer into this situation on the pretense of helping her advance her career. Polanski eventually pleaded guilty to unlawful sexual intercourse with a minor, but fled to Europe before he could be sentenced. Griffin said during a recent interview with   outlet VladTV the U. S. media is attempting to destroy Cosby as part of a “systematic effort” to tarnish the reputations of black male celebrities. Citing the case of Polanski, Griffin said, “Let’s talk about this little motherf —  kin’ white boy, who’s a known motherf —  kin’ pedophile, the director that escaped overseas. ” “I don’t see them f —  king with that motherf —  ker. He’s back at work,” Griffin said. To date, there have been numerous attempts to have Polanksi extradited to the United States to face justice for preying on Geimer. None of those attempts have been heavily supported by the Hollywood stars who are now condemning Cosby. HBO star Lena Dunham is currently supporting Hillary Clinton’s bid for the White House, while remaining silent on accusations by numerous women that her husband, former President Bill Clinton, raped, groped, or harassed them. On Wednesday, Dunham tweeted, “If I believed in hell Bill Cosby would be going there. ” If I believed in hell Bill Cosby would be going there.  —   Lena Dunham (@lenadunham) December 30, 2015,  In her memoir, Not That Kind of Girl, Dunham claimed she was raped by a “campus Republican” named Barry while attending Oberlin College. A 2014 investigation by Breitbart’s John Nolte concluded those accusations were false.