Today’s Google homepage features Yuri Kochiyama, a “human rights” activist who openly admitted admiration for Osama Bin Laden. [In addition to Osama Bin Laden, Yuri also added Che Guevara, Fidel Castro, and Malcolm X to her personal favorites. In her 2003 interview with Los Angeles Indymedia, she referred to these men as “freedom fighters” to look up to.  They had much in common. Besides being strong leaders who brought consciousness to their people, they all had severe dislike for the US government and those who held power in the US. I think all of them felt the US government and its spokesmen were all arrogant, racist, hypocritical,   and power hungry. She also explained that despite Bin Laden’s wealthy upbringing, he grew to loathe elitism and class conduct in the family. Yuri mentions that his bad image was due to the US forcing him to adapt to realities of a “hunted terrorist leader. ” She must have missed the entirety of the   attacks and the subsequent comment from Bin Laden, in which the terrorist leader explained his primary motivation was revenge against the “  alliance. ” But it doesn’t end there. Kochiyama was briefly good friends with black supremacist and Nation of Islam leader, Malcolm X. The same Malcolm X who believed violent protest was the only way to fight back against the white race. In fact, Yuri was present for his assassination and held him in Malcolm in her arms as he died. Fidel Castro, another hero of Yuri’s, was a big fan of firing squads as capital punishment. He loved them so much that historians are still unsure how many Cuban citizens died under his reign. Then there’s Che Guevara, who indulged in the execution of prisoners and slave labor camps for “dissidents, homosexuals, Jehovah’s Witnesses,   priests, and anyone else who had committed “crimes” against the new moral revolution. ” Today, children and teens with young developing minds will sign on, head to Google and find this woman being celebrated. Some won’t bother to research her, but many will, and those who do will fall into a rabbit hole of racist   rhetoric and literature. Google is celebrating the life of someone who would love to watch their capitalist riches burn. Mike Ma is a Vine comedian and contributor to Breitbart Tech.  You can find him on Twitter at @MikeMa_