Famed attorney Alan Dershowitz has retained former President Bill Clinton’s FBI director to help show Clinton was not present at alleged sex orgies thrown by his former client, a convicted pedophile and close Clinton friend. [Clinton’s friendship with a convicted child sex predator, Jeffrey Epstein, again is coming under increased scrutiny, thanks in part to a recent civil lawsuit for defamation filed in Florida against Dershowitz by representatives for two of Epstein’s alleged victims. Dershowitz served as Epstein’s lawyer during Epstein’s criminal trial.  Not only has Bill Clinton’s name come up in the court proceedings, but Dershowitz, one of the key figures in the case, says that he cannot conclusively deny that Clinton was present at lavish sex orgies thrown on a Caribbean island by Epstein. What’s more, one of the victims said that Bill Clinton in fact was present at an Epstein island orgy. Epstein pleaded guilty in 2008 to soliciting prostitution from a minor. Though he was represented at trial by Dershowitz, he still had to serve 13 months in prison on an   sentence. Flight logs also connect Clinton as they show he made multiple trips on Epstein’s private plane, including a September 2002 jaunt to Africa with actor buddies Kevin Spacey and Chris Tucker. So does Epstein accuser Virginia Roberts, who claimed that she was used as a sex slave by Epstein and his friends, said that she met Bill Clinton on one of his trips with Epstein when she was only seventeen, but that she did not have sex with him.   and Clinton and Epstein pal Dershowitz recently testified in circuit court in Broward County, Florida. Transcripts of his testimony reveal that Clinton administration FBI chief Louis Freeh has been called in to run interference. Freeh served as FBI director from 1993 to 2001, during almost the entirety of the Clinton presidency. Freeh is representing Dershowitz  who recently has been at the center of civil claims involving allegations that he had sex with underage women on Epstein’s private plane and at parties on Epstein’s private island, including at times when Clinton also was on the island. “Well, we have made a Freedom of Information request,” Dershowitz testified. “My  —   my attorney in New York, Louis Freeh, the former head of the FBI, has made a FOIA request for all information that would conclusively prove that Bill Clinton was never on Jeffrey Epstein’s island, yes. ” Freeh’s efforts are ongoing. “As any lawyer knows, FOIA requests take a long, long period of time. So they were neither denied nor were they given to us. They are very much in process,” Dershowitz said in the testimony. Dershowitz’s deposition testimony, however, continues to raise questions about Clinton’s involvement in Epstein’s private sex orgies. In fact, Dershowitz chose his words carefully and did not definitively deny that Clinton might have been present, may have observed or even participated in a sex orgy. “And there is the possibility, which I don’t personally believe to be true, that he was on the island,” Dershowitz testified. “There was the possibility, which I don’t believe to be true, that he was on the island when orgies were taking place. There was the possibility that he was on the island and observed an orgy, and there was the possibility that he was on the island and participated in an orgy. ” Epstein pleaded the Fifth when he was asked directly under oath whether he knew or was friends with Bill Clinton. Bill Clinton also is connected to Epstein’s escapades through Ghislaine Maxwell, a socialite friend of Epstein’s, who is being accused by plaintiffs in the case of recruiting children for Epstein’s disturbing parties. Clinton and Maxwell, who both live in New York, have dined together on at least one occasion. “As recounted in detail in this Complaint, Jane Doe 102 was 15 years old when Ghislaine Maxwell discovered her and lured her to Epstein’s house,” according to a 2011 Undisputed Statement of Facts in the case. “Maxwell and Epstein forced her to have sex with both of them and within weeks Maxwell and Epstein were flying her all over the world. According to the Complaint, Jane Doe 102 was forced to live as one of Epstein’s underage sex slaves for years and was forced to have sex with not only Maxwell and Epstein but also other politicians, businessmen, royalty, academicians, etc. She was even made to watch Epstein have sex with three    French girls that were sent to him for his birthday by a French citizen that is a friend of Epstein’s. ” Clinton’s association with Maxwell was reported by New York Magazine in 2003, years before the Epstein scandal. “Friends of the two say that Maxwell, whose social life has always been   than Epstein’s, lent a little pizzazz to the   Epstein,” the magazine reported. “Indeed, at a party at Maxwell’s house, her friends say, one is just as apt to see Russian ladies of the night as one is to see Prince Andrew. The   Maxwell, described by many as a   [she flies her own helicopter and was recently seen dining with Clinton at Nello’s on Madison Avenue] lives in her own townhouse a few blocks away. ” Dershowitz has said he is an “an innocent victim of an extortion conspiracy,” and that he can prove by objective records that the allegations made by his accuser are fabricated. Freeh did not return a request for comment for this report. This article has been updated.