The president of Judicial Watch Tuesday told syndicated radio talk show host Howie Carr that the Clinton Foundation will cease operations after the   watchdog released 725 pages of emails revealing the    culture at Secretary Hillary R. Clinton’s State Department. [“I don’t think the Clinton Foundation is going to survive until the end of the week,” said Tom Fitton, the president of Judicial Watch, which released the emails that were produced by the State Department at the direction of a federal judge after JW had to file a federal petition compelling the State Department to fulfill its request for emails to and from Huma Abedin, a   aide and confidante of the Democratic nominee for president.  “You really think that, Tom? You really think they can be shamed in any way, shape or form?” asked Carr, who had just finished telling Fitton that the Associated Press had discovered that out of 154   people Clinton met with as America’s top diplomat, 85 were donors to the Clinton Foundation or another   organization with combined contributions exceeding $156 million. Of the 85, more than 40 gave at least $100, 000 and another 20 gave $1 million. Fitton said he was stunned by the response when it was revealed in the latest batch of emails that there was an attempt to get a meeting with the secretary for a   billionaire through the Clinton Foundation, rather than official State Department channels. “They said: ‘Well, we weren’t elected. ’” Fitton said the shuttering of operations has already begun. The Clinton Foundation no longer accepts contributions from foreigners and corporations and they have cancelled the annual Clinton Global Initiative, he said. “I think they are going to get pressure —  and they are —  from the left and the right —  to shut the foundation down,” he said. Foreign contributions make up 40 percent of the foundation’s revenue and once they stop taking in new money the foundation is done, he said. At the end of the segment, Carr asked Fitton what was coming next from Judicial Watch. Fitton said there were 200 more Abedin emails coming from the State Department from the same request that produced the 725 pages of emails released Monday.