HBO aired the final two episodes of the fifth season of “Girls” on Sunday, which found Hannah (Lena Dunham) bonding with her college classmate and frenemy Tally (Jenny Slate) Marnie (Allison Williams) trying to understand her romantic impulses toward Ray (Alex Karpovsky) Shoshanna (Zosia Mamet) embracing her role as a marketer, and Jessa (Jemima Kirke) and Adam (Adam Driver) trying to make sense of their budding relationship. Amanda Hess, a staff writer, Margaret Lyons, the TV critic for Watching (the Times newsletter) and Jenna Wortham, a staff writer for The New York Times Magazine, discuss the entire season, and where the show might be headed in its sixth and final season. This conversation contains spoilers. JENNA WORTHAM I haven’t cried this much watching television since rewatching the second season of “Grey’s Anatomy. ” Even Hannah Horvath, who at one point felt like a monstrous caricature of a millennial, has been cracking me up this season. And the look on her face when she realized Adam and Jessa were together   …     whew. Everyone is growing in a way that feels so painful, and honest and real. “Girls” has suffered a little as it’s become less of a unicorn. In the last few years, there are so many new and interesting television shows and story lines about women (and by them and for them) on television, so the show hasn’t been as special or as singular since its debut in 2012. But having a little breathing room has gone a long way. I started watching this season when a few friends mentioned how good it’s gotten and I agree: The writing is stronger than ever, and episodes, especially the ones directed by Jesse Peretz, have beautifully poignant arcs. I’m so glad this isn’t the final season, that we get a few more episodes before the  . How did the show get so good? What do we think changed since last season? [ You don’t like the girls in “Girls”? That’s its genius. ] MARGARET LYONS: I liked last season! I liked this season, too, though I’m in the minority because I absolutely hated “The Panic in Central Park,” where Charlie   and turns out to be a heroin addict. And I did not love “Homeward Bound,” last week’s episode where Hannah dumps Fran, jumps on Ray, and eventually hitchhikes back to New York. But I wanted “Hello Kitty,” the Kitty Genovese episode, to last for nine hours I was riveted, and the closing moments, when Hannah realizes that Jessa and Adam are together, just knocked me out. I would have called it the best acting moment of the “Girls” season, but Elijah’s slow crumple as he realizes his    Dill is rejecting him might best it. JW: Margaret, that scene with Elijah walking toward the window in Dill’s apartment, with the glittery New York scape spilling out below, right as “iT” by Christine and the Queens swells behind him  —   it slayed me. It was absolutely devastating, a sign of how much the show is pushing its characters to confront their desires  —   and ask themselves if the shiniest things are necessarily the best things. It wrenched my heart right open  —   and showed off Lena Dunham’s creation at its best. This season also really brought home how good “Girls” is at capturing the spirit of New York, and its power to transform everyone that lives here. It is so good at filling that “Sex and The City” shaped hole in my heart. AMANDA HESS: I’m feeling it, you guys. As the series had marched on, something had become unbelievable about this foursome staying glued together as a friend unit. They aligned in college or just after, but many of these relationships tend to unstick by the time women reach 30. Unlike “Sex and the City”  —   where the regular brunch date served as a kind of otherworldly purgatory for staging boozy debates about feminism and sex  —   “Girls” is not timeless. These girls change. And so it was satisfying to see them head off on their own this season  —   Shoshanna in Japan, Hannah at her mom’s     retreat, Marnie on her   lark with Charlie, even Jessa kicking around with Adam on Coney Island. And to see them hang out with new girls, too! Watching Tally and Abigail, played by Jenny Slate and Aidy Bryant, step in as emergency contacts for Hannah and Shosh was a highlight of the show for me. Also, finally giving honorary girl Elijah the romantic subplot he deserves. JW: Was it just me or does Shoshanna in Japan feel a little like when Don Draper went to California? Similar Draper dream vibes when Marnie put on the red dress  …    . AH: Japan has been working double time this year as the   destination for white indie girls who need a life change. In “Master of None,” Dev’s girlfriend Rachel torpedoes their relationship by announcing her exit to Tokyo. (She even dyes her hair, too! ). But there was something really appropriate about seeing Shosh in Harajuku, a place that in all of its aesthetics, so perfectly reflects Shoshanna’s intense, girlie drive. I agree with her   Abigail: I’d watch the Shosh and Yoshi show any day of the week. JW: Yes, we seriously need a Yoshanna spin off. Side note  —     Dunham’s   as a salty coffee barista have been so great.  ML: “Girls” really benefited from the change of scene. (I’d loop Hannah’s time in Iowa in with that, too.) I’ve never been a big Shosh person, but seeing her bob around in Tokyo gave her new context: What would Shosh be like if being “the weird one” wasn’t what defined her? She’d be more confident, maybe, and more grounded. The big question of this season, posed to each character in a different way, was: How do you know you are growing up? For Shosh, that answer was professional success her little victory dance with Colin Quinn at Ray’s coffee bar was as happy as we’ve ever seen her. For Marnie, her answer was getting married. She turned out to be wrong of course marriage is almost always a bad answer, but that doesn’t mean people don’t think it’s the answer. I think her ultimate   move might be getting divorced. For Jessa, it’s being in a real  —   and sober  —   relationship. (I wish we saw more of her schooling I bet she’s an interesting classmate.) For Elijah, it’s being vulnerable. For Hannah’s dad, Tad, it’s being out. Out out. For her mom, Loreen, maybe it’s being on her own after all. So what is it for Hannah? I think she declared it for herself in her story for the Moth. It’s being free, even just for a little bit. Free of her own bad behavior: Not flashing anyone, not sneaking off to have sex at the spa, not throwing herself at  —   or on  —   Ray, not scolding her parents. Just chill. For 10 minutes. Whether any of these characters actually wants to grow up is a different story  …     AH: But Hannah’s behavior was so bad this season, it kind of felt like she was going to end up in a jail cell, or else in the neurologist’s office: You have 10 episodes to live. The “Basic Instinct” flash, the lesbian gymnastics, the Ray   …     thing  —   it all went beyond the edge of delicious discomfort for me, to the point where I had to fight the urge to   through her scenes. (Desi’s dopey yet magnetic narcissist was more my speed  —   Ebon   is so good at dancing right on the edge of comedy and tragedy.) The Moth bit was a   refresher that Hannah can actually be quite charming in those precious moments when she chooses to reflect. And the ending, where we freeze on her leaping to action, felt like such a psychic correction from the Season 2 finale, when Adam raced to sweep Hannah off her feet to the tune of Fun  —   my personal   “Girls” moment. What do we think Hannah is running toward in Season 6? JW: Earlier this week, I made the joke that the Lena (with Hannah) and Kanye (his bars in The Life of Pablo) are the worst things about their current creations. I hated Hannah in the first two episodes, and I warmed up to her as the season progressed. “Girls” has always excelled at illustrating the diverse taxonomy of uncomfortable youthful sexual encounters and Hannah’s encounter with the lesbian yoga teacher at the retreat was so perfect for that  —   plus I loved her flash scene. It was hilarious! I could not stop laughing. The nude photo shoot was as excellent, just so classic Hannah Horvath. And even though I loved Jenny Slate’s cameo, the dance scene felt a little gratuitous (but maybe I’m just holding it up to the instant classic Robyn scene from Season 1). But I let out a little whoop when she and Tally went into hysterics at seeing Jessa and Adam (whose union feels so satisfying) in the apartment hallway on their way outside. Maybe Hannah’s biggest revelation will be that the world doesn’t revolve around her, that friendships fade and that we survive. Life does go on. And isn’t that enough? It could be. The more I think about it, the more I love how grotesque Hannah has become. Jessa’s passionate speech in the    episode really cut to the quick for me  —   maybe there’s something redemptive in the hot mess that is Hannah Horvath, even if we can’t see it yet. Maybe there won’t be a payoff. Maybe there doesn’t need to be a grand revelation. If there is, it might be inauthentic to who Hannah has been this entire time. I think I want to root for terrible, narcissistic women to take up as much space as terrible, narcissistic men. ML: I would be so sad if Hannah suddenly became an ordinary or healthy person at the end of next season. And I can’t picture that happening  —   that’s just not what the show has ever been about. What I liked most about Hannah’s interaction with her former nemesis Tally was her gentle realization that she didn’t have to stay friends with her friends. Like Amanda, I too feel like our main four characters wouldn’t really be a crew anymore, and while Jessa, Marnie, and Shosh have seemingly decided the direction they want their adult lives to take, Hannah hasn’t  —   and doesn’t seem like she wants to. She still wants to be impulsive (steal a bike!) or unreliable (I’m not going on this road trip after all! ). If her current friends don’t want to do those things anymore, well, she can find new friends. And maybe she should find new friends at this point  —   given that she has shared sexual partners with all of them. The final scene of Hannah running  —   complete with freeze frame  —   was not a new Hannah. She was just her giving into her   “do this thing right now” reflex. Hannah doesn’t want to plan, she doesn’t want to lock things down, and she doesn’t want social responsibilities (though she wants others to be responsive to her own needs). She’s flaky, and she has no     whatsoever. She didn’t even research The Moth story slam enough to know you can’t use notes! But unlike lots of other “Girls” viewers, I don’t hate Hannah. I love the character, and I want Hannah to have a life she wants. But in the last two seasons, what became clearer was that her path toward happiness wasn’t going to come from the cessation of bad behavior it was going to come from accepting it and not trying to change anymore. You want to be a demanding, inappropriate narcissist forever? Embrace it. AH I somewhat hate all of these people. (Except for maybe Shosh, who is annoying but strikes me as a fundamentally good person). One of my favorite moments of this season was when the thrift store shopgirl in “The Panic In Central Park” episode, played by the wonderful Lane Moore, openly judges Marnie’s life choices, and Marnie is too   to even notice. I salute you, shopgirl! You are me, watching “Girls. ” And part of the deranged joy of Marnie’s arc has been witnessing the garbage fire that is her personality ignite her nascent music career. My biggest laugh of the season came right on the heels of Marnie’s breakup with Desi, when they got news that their   indie song had been selected for a death montage on “Grey’s Anatomy” and the pair mirthfully united in the name of their shared cause: Fame. Similarly, it was fun watching Hannah get and then squander her book deal, get a gig at GQ (as a native advertiser!) and then enroll and implode at Iowa. But this season she bottomed out by teaching at a private school and squabbling with her      boyfriend. This is Hannah’s nightmare scenario: Doing normal person stuff. In the next and final season of “Girls,” I’m ready for her to get back in the game. If she’s going to be a narcissistic monster, I want her to try to eat New York.