Citing a study that shows Middle American whites are dying in increasing numbers, like a twisted and bitter eugenicist,   Fareed Zakaria doesn’t even attempt to contain his glee. By painting those who are supposedly dying as useless,   ragers, he paints a picture of a weak, angry, and ultimately stupid ethnic group getting what it deserves. [If this were any other group, Zakaria would not be using the pages of the Washington Post for a victory dance. Instead, he would be launching an emotional blackmail campaign to cure this “epidemic” with hundreds of billions of federal dollars. Like most of the elite media, though, Zakaria despises Middle America, so he joyously assumes the study is accurate and bloodlessly screams “Told You So!”  The headline says it all: “America’s   Whites,” and naturally the opening paragraph contains the words “Donald” and “Trump. ” Why is Middle America killing itself? The fact itself is probably the most important social science finding in years. It is already reshaping American politics. The Post’s Jeff Guo notes that the people who make up this cohort are “largely responsible for Donald Trump’s lead in the race for the Republican nomination for president. ” What does this “epidemic” mean to Zakaria? That it’s time for compassion? Time for government action? Time for understanding? No. It means “more rage” from creepy Middle America: The key question is why, and exploring it provides answers that suggest that the rage dominating U. S. politics will only get worse. Zakaria hints that the study’s numbers are a tad shaky, but that doesn’t stop him from doing a happy dance around the fact that  …     Middle America’s Got It Coming  …    . The main causes of death are as striking as the fact itself: suicide, alcoholism, and overdoses of prescription and illegal drugs. “People seem to be killing themselves, slowly or quickly,” Deaton told me. These circumstances are usually caused by stress, depression and despair. Middle America’s a Bunch of Wussies  …    . A conventional explanation for this   stress and anxiety is that globalization and technological change have placed increasing pressures on the average worker in industrialized nations. But the trend is absent in any other Western country  —   it’s an exclusively American phenomenon. And the United States is actually relatively insulated from the pressures of globalization, having a vast,   internal market. Stupid Middle America Should Stop Voting Against the Welfare State  …     Deaton speculated to me that perhaps Europe’s more generous welfare state might ease some of the fears associated with the rapid change. Middle America’s Spoiled By White Privilege  …     [O]ther groups might not expect that their income, standard of living and social status are destined to steadily improve. They don’t have the same confidence that if they work hard, they will surely get ahead. In fact, Rouse said that after hundreds of years of slavery, segregation and racism, blacks have developed ways to cope with disappointment and the unfairness of life[.] They do not assume that the system is set up for them. They try hard and hope to succeed, but they do not expect it as the norm. Donald Trump Can’t Save You! Mwuh, huh, huh, huh  …     Donald Trump has promised that he will change this and make them win again. But he can’t. No one can. And deep down, they know it. Speaking only for myself, I’d rather die young in Middle America than as an old metrosexual,       elitist so lacking in humanity that I not only gloat over   studies involving premature death, but like Joseph Goebbels, I openly spread the word that this is good news.   Follow John Nolte on Twitter @NolteNC                