Pop icon Cher lit into Donald Trump on Sunday, comparing the Republican presidential nominee to Nazi leader Adolf Hitler and calling him a slew of vulgar names during a fundraiser for Democrat presidential nominee Hillary Clinton. [The    “Believe” singer and gay icon kicked off her roughly   remarks at the   event in Provincetown, Massachusetts by fondly recalling the first time she met gay and lesbian people as a child, before pivoting to viciously attack the Republican presidential nominee.  “I just think he’s a f*cking idiot,” Cher said, to wildly enthusiastic applause. “I was thinking despots  —   Stalin, Hitler  —   even though they said the same things, we’re going to make Germany great again, and it was at a time when the Deutsch mark I think was at 25 cents,” she continued. “And also look at Brexit, these people just screwed themselves so badly because they were angry and they didn’t think things could get worse. ” The singer’s speech was filmed by an attendee and posted to Facebook. (Warning: Strong language. Trump remarks at around the 13:00 mark) “He’s so Patty McCormack. Consummate liar, doesn’t care who she hurts, insane, and you know, sociopathic narcissist,” she said. “I just wish he’d fall off the face of the earth. ” She concluded: “I believe in her so much. I know that if [Trump] got into office, it would be the worst place, I don’t think we could even imagine how bad it could get  …     I think if breaking news ever happened and he had to go the podium, we would just all go, ‘F*ck. ’” The   singer didn’t perform at the event, held at the Pilgrim Monument and Museum on Cape Cod, though she was played onstage to her hit song “Woman’s World” and her music could reportedly be heard on speakers outside the event. The fundraiser reportedly raised more than $1. 5 million for the Clinton campaign, with tickets ranging from $45 for general admission to $27, 000 for a   billing and a private reception with the candidate. Attendees included former tennis superstar Billie Jean King, Democratic National Committee chairwoman Donna Brazile and Massachusetts Attorney General Maura Healey. “I’ve had this career, with ups and downs, for 50 years, and I have to say, no matter if everyone thought I was cool or uncool, you never left me,” Cher added. Clinton arrived in Los Angeles on Monday for a series of fundraisers in Hollywood, including events at the home of former NBA legend Magic Johnson, billionaire entertainment mogul Haim Saban and pop star Justin Timberlake. Clinton was later set to travel to the Bay Area for a fundraiser hosted by Apple CEO Tim Cook.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum