Friday, the LA Times headline on the 1 year anniversary of the San Bernardino Terrorist attack gave a glimpse into a media that has never been more out of touch with reality. [“We may never know why the San Bernardino terrorists targeted a Christmas party. Here’s what we do know. ”  Really? You don’t know or you don’t want to know?  That’s the question. An Islamic Jihadist killed my neighbor one year ago today in San Bernardino —  along with 13 others, and 22 who were seriously wounded —  and now, his   age son, who plays football with my son, has no dad in the stands on Friday night.  The life of Michael Wetzel,    father of 6, was celebrated shortly after the tragedy on a cold and foggy Saturday morning by over 400 people in a high school gymnasium.  No dignitaries attended.  President Obama had been in town the night before, but needed to rush over to Hawaii where he had a date with a golf course. After the San Bernardino, everything changed.  The majority of Americans paying attention realized one thing: We’re on our own.  The government not only cannot protect us, but won’t. If this could happen in San Bernardino, this could happen anywhere.   In the aftermath of the tragedy, the facts slowly leaked out about Farook and his Jihadi bride, Tafsheen Malik.  Their original plan was to kill far more innocent people than they ultimately did. It soon became clear that political correctness within every level of government was a major culprit in the worst terror attack on US soil since  .  And the media ignored the diabolical doctrine that made it possible for Sayed Farook’s name to be removed from an investigation as a person of peripheral interest by the FBI. Instead of cracking down on people in the group with the highest probability to do this next —  that is, ISIS sympathizers and militant Islamic radicals, specifically anyone who’s recently travelled to Syria or immigrated here from the Middle East in the past 2 years —  Obama and his administration targeted Americans. And he was not alone. Before any facts were known, tweets from the likes of Democrat presidential candidate Hillary Clinton joined the blamefest:  I refuse to accept this as normal. We must take action to stop gun violence now.   Democrat Martin O’Malley’s tweet was even more specific, blaming the NRA:  Horrifying news out of #SanBernardino. Enough is enough: it’s time to stand up to the @NRA and enact meaningful gun safety laws, Breitbart’s AWR Hawkins exposed Hollywood types jumped on the bandwagon blaming guns before any facts were known. “Pixel’s Josh Gad, who tweeted, “How many times a month, week, or day must there be mass shootings 4 us to demand gun control? #WhenIsEnoughEnough? Beyond sad. Prayers 2 all. ” Gad was followed by Billy Eichner, who responded to people offering thoughts and prayers for victims by tweeting, “Your ‘thoughts and prayers’ don’t mean a damn thing. #GunControlNOW. ” Reporters refused to say the name Sayed Farook for hours after police scanners made it clear that he was one of the shooters, initially reporting inaccurately that the shooters were “three white guys. ” While the killers were still on the loose, the public was deliberately given blatantly false or intentionally inaccurate information. And this PC censorship didn’t stop after the truth was known.  The media blamed the NRA, gun owners, republicans —  anyone but Islamic fundamentalists.  I’m surprised no one blamed the Russions.  One New York newspaper even blamed the victims themselves. But it was one email recently exposed by WikiLeaks that summed up the attitude of the entire media, the Clinton campaign —  or in short, Democrats: In response to a tweet by MSNBC host Christopher Hayes: “NBC News now reporting a US citizen named Sayeed Farouk believed to be one of the people involved in the shooting. ” Hillary Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta fired back the following response: “Better if a guy named Sayeed Farouk was reporting that a guy named Christopher Hayes was the shooter. ” The Democrats who control the   “mainstream media” had a narrative to deliver —  one that would help their candidate, Hillary Clinton.  And telling the truth about the Islamic terrorist with the “  ” wasn’t going to help their goal of electing the first woman president. It was a coordinated effort to mislead the American people —  and politicize this horrific tragedy. But the American people are not stupid. And it’s that kind of irresponsible pushing of “fake news” that infuriated the average American.  Anyone with a brain could intuit, that the only way to stop a team of murderers this determined was a “good guy” armed with a gun and more importantly, the courage to carry it into a   “  zone”. Only one candidate promised to do something about the actual problem —  and that was Donald Trump. He made it clear that he would use the power of the presidency to protect Americans first —  political correctness be damned. And the global press demonized him for it. But American people loved him for speaking the truth.  And they responded. First, they bought more guns in 2016 than any other year in history. And second, they rejected Hillary Clinton and her     cheerleaders in the media, and made Donald J. Trump the next president of the United states. After the terrible tragedy that occurred in San Bernardino on December 2nd, 2015, America’s future is now more secure  —  not because of the politicians or the pundits —  but because of the simple wisdom of the American people. And as someone who lives near the epicenter of San Bernardino, we are grateful. Tim Donnelly is a former California State Assemblyman.  He can be contacted on Twitter:  @PatriotNotPol, 2016 Presidential Race, 2nd Amendment, Breitbart California, ”Trump’s America” #corruptmedia, Donald Trump, Media Bias, San Bernardiino Attack, terrorism, Trump