Billionaire socialist political investor George Soros is behind Black Lives Matter and the attempt to empty the prisons to move America further left, so what are the Koch brothers doing joining them? [Soros’ hub of his political web is the group, Open Society, which was hacked and its email traffic spilled into the public domain, showed that its U. S. Programs Board, in October of 2015, approved an expenditure of $650, 000 to the Black Lives Matter movement, which has been at the epicenter of disruptive riots designed to transform the criminal justice system.  And Politico reported that just a few weeks after the Open Society grant, the far left funding coordination group Democracy Alliance was bringing Black Lives Matter in front of their many major donors. As a follow up, in February of 2016, leaked emails show the political agenda at work bragging, “Leaders of #BlackLivesMatter and The Movement for Black Lives worked to influence candidate platforms during the 2016 primary season. This came alongside the recent acknowledgement by political strategists that   voters may be much more pivotal to the 2016 general election than previously forecasted. ” (emphasis added) In the nine months following that Soros grant, the Washington Times reports that Black Lives Matter hit the jackpot with $100 million in cash and money pledged from the liberal foundation network. In the Times article, Bill Johnson, Executive Director of the National Association of Police Organizations urged potential donors to think twice before partnering with foundations supporting BLM saying, “I guess potential donors may want to look at the [Black Lives Matter] movement and see the damage, destruction and murders that they’ve left in their wake. ” But what Bill Johnson probably does not realize is that far left donors are not deterred but encouraged by Black Lives Matter’s ability and willingness to disrupt and riot in protest of perceived slights, the far left funding mechanism views BLM as a critical component to turning out the   black vote for a Hillary Clinton candidacy that has never resonated any enthusiasm in the community. So the motivation for the power hungry   far left funders is clear  —   elect their team to continue and expand the Obama legacy of destroying the last vestiges of individual freedom, and use racist radicals to physically attack their political opponents to intimidate them into submission. When the practical application of Obama’s releasing felons from prison early meets Virginia Governor (and close Clinton confidante) Terry McAuliffe’s restoration of voting rights to 13, 000 felons, it becomes clear that the left is playing hardball to increase the ranks of their voters as rapidly as possible. And on the federal level, Republicans like Speaker Paul Ryan in the hopes of showing a softer, compassionate side to facilitate minority outreach, are rushing to pass legislation which will dump thousands of   drug kingpins back onto the streets of the cities and neighborhoods that were protected from them when they went to federal prison. These criminals, like Wendell Callahan, who was set free under the retroactive application of a 2010 Sentencing Reform law and proceeded to murder his former girlfriend and her 7 and 10 year old daughters by slitting their throats in a gruesome Columbus, Ohio crime this past January, are a crime wave waiting to happen. Should Ryan and Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the Koch Brothers, George Soros and Black Lives Matter have their way, the dramatic current rise in violent crime being felt in our major cities will continue to accelerate as the major national study on federal criminal recidivism shows that felons have a 75 percent recidivism rate with 25 percent of those being violent crimes. If numbers hold true to form, more than a thousand Americans, mostly people of color, will die and countless thousands more will be traumatized by a   violent crime, all due to this unholy coalition. And the Hillary Clinton administration that Soros is trying to put into office will respond to the ensuing homicide wave by demanding that individuals surrender their right to keep and bear arms so a civil society can be restored. It all makes sense from George Soros’ perspective, as he seeks to finish the transformation of the United States from a place where people are free from government intrusion into their lives to one where the government determines what freedoms the people will be allowed. The question is what is up with the Koch Brothers? In a recent letter to funders of their contribution network, Mark Holder, the General Counsel of Koch Industries and the Chairman of their umbrella political funding operation, Freedom Partners Chamber of Commerce, urged these donors to accomplish another of Soros’ and Black Lives Matters objectives by “banning the box. ” The evil box in question is the one on an employment application that asks if someone has ever been arrested or convicted of a crime and for them to explain. Between the new Koch soft on crime political philosophy, and their support for blinding human resources professionals from an applicant’s criminal history, one wonders if this is a naïve public relations stunt reacting to being negativity associated with supporting freedom through an unrelenting attack by the left on their company’s good name, or is it the beginning of the dismantling of the major funding mechanism on the right? One thing is clear, the left is playing for keeps knowing that this 2016 presidential election cements the Obama legacy of attacking the free enterprise system and the federalization of everything from local zoning to education to policing, and the Koch Brothers are sulking on the sidelines because their chosen candidate( s) for president did not win the GOP nomination. All the while, on Capitol Hill, they are “ ” pushing the left’s prison emptying agenda legitimizing Black Lives Matter complaints that the system is rigged against people of color. George Soros must be rubbing his hands together in glee as his once formidable nemesis, along with their Congressional allies, have figuratively rolled on their backs with their paws in the air begging for forgiveness for their former sins of promoting individual liberty and free enterprise. It makes one wonder if this country can be saved. The author is president of Americans for Limited Government