Breitbart News National Security Editor Dr. Sebastian Gorka, author of the   book Defeating Jihad: The Winnable War, addressed the idea of treating Chelsea bomber Ahmad Khan Rahami as an enemy combatant, rather than a criminal, in a Fox News appearance. [“I think it’s very compelling to make an argument that this isn’t just another criminal,” Gorka told host Neil Cavuto. “This isn’t a member of the Mafia, this isn’t a bank robber. This is a man who has taken sides in a war, and he is on the side of an enemy entity  —   in this case, the Islamic State, the new caliphate, run by Abu Bakr  . ”  “If you look at World War II, we did not treat enemy agents captured on U. S. soil as just common criminals,” he pointed out. “In fact, they were treated as enemy combatants, and if they were U. S. citizens, the treason statutes applied. So if you believe we’re at war, Neil, then there’s a very compelling case to be made that you don’t treat this guy just like a common criminal. ” Cavuto noted that Rahami apparently will be treated as a criminal, with defenders of the practice arguing that other terrorists have been handled through the criminal courts successfully. “It’s a question of perspective: do you think we are at war?” Gorka maintained. “I think we are. I think we are now in the 16th year  —   we just had the 15th anniversary of   and we are in the longest war America has ever waged, since 1776. ” “This isn’t just a bunch of random criminals. They’re not people making profit. These aren’t psychos. This isn’t Jeffrey Dahmer. These are jihadis who wish to destroy America and Western civilization. As such, i think they should be treated as enemy combatants, and not enjoy the rights and privileges that Americans enjoy, who are citizens of this nation, and don’t wish to destroy this nation. ” Cavuto asked Gorka if he thought Rahami had help, “maybe a lot of help. ” “Oh, my gosh. This is a man who, I’ve read the contents of the journal, this man was not just a consumer, he was a propagator of jihadi narrative,” Gorka responded, referring to the notebook taken from Rahami after his capture. “Not only did his father turn him in, or try to turn him in, he made blatantly   statements in public. He made blatantly homophobic statements. And then what does he do? He travels to South Asia and he visits Quetta. Quetta is the hotbed of jihadism,” he said.   