The second video in James O’Keefe’s Project Veritas investigation of the 2016 election reveals what O’Keefe describes as “Democratic Party operatives tell[ing] us how to successfully commit voter fraud on a massive scale. ”[  Part one in O’Keefe’s investigation unraveled what appears to be an elaborate web of   provocateurs who have been instigating violence at Republican events nationwide throughout the 2016 election cycle, including at several Donald Trump rallies, using a tactic they called “ . ” O’Keefe’s team has also uncovered evidence that Democratic consultants may have been relaying messages to and from Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign and super PACs using a system one consultant called “the Pony Express. ” Campaigns and Super PACs are not permitted by law to coordinate with each other. In the preface to the second video, O’Keefe states that the first video “blew up on social media, but sources have told us that several large corporate media outlets are afraid to cover our discoveries for fear of future retribution from a Hillary Clinton administration. Truth is dangerous especially when it challenges power. ” This second investigation features an undercover Project Veritas reporter posing as a Democratic Party donor brainstorming an elaborate voter fraud scheme to fraudulently register people to vote in various states using the lax voter registration policies currently in place. Like O’Keefe’s first video, the second also prominently features Democratic operatives Robert Creamer and his colleague Scott Foval, who was removed from his position at the leftwing advocacy group Americans United for Change on Monday as a result of O’Keefe’s investigation. O’Keefe notes that at the time the second video was shot, Foval “worked for People for the American Way, an organization funded in large part by George Soros. ” In the video, Foval is heard saying, “We manipulated the vote with money and action, not with laws. ” He then explains: It’s a pretty easy thing for Republicans to say, ‘Well, they’re bussing people in!’ Well, you know what? We’ve been bussing people in to deal with you fuckin’ assholes for fifty years, and we’re not going to stop now. We’re just going to find a different way to do it. So, I mean I grew up with that idea. They used to bus people out to Iowa. If they needed people there we’d bus people out to Iowa. Foval also discusses the problem of being caught, stating, “The question is, whether when you get caught by a reporter, does that matter? Because does it turn into an investigation or not? In this case, this state, the answer is no, because they don’t have any power to do anything. ” Foval suggests that the voter fraud scheme could potentially be implemented “on a much bigger scale. You implement a massive change in state legislatures and in Congress. So you aim higher for your goals, and you implement it across every   state. ” He then speculates on “the ripest environment to do it in”: Honestly the ripest environment to do it in? Two, within striking distance. Michigan, Indiana. Least restrictive donation caps and campaign finance laws and investigative arms, and any of that. Like they have weakened it so bad in those three states, you could fuck your mother in front of the governor and not go to jail. If you have enough money to do this. Creamer, as Breitbart’s Joel Pollak reported, is “a veteran Chicago activist and convicted felon who is thought to have planned Democrats’ political strategy during the push for Obamacare in 2009 and 2010. Creamer is also the   of Democracy Partners, a consulting group that, according to Project Veritas videos, apparently contracts directly with the Hillary Clinton campaign and the DNC, and that works with an array of super PACs and consultants to organize, film and publicize their provocations. ” Foval is heard in the second video saying: Bob Creamer is diabolical and I love him for it. I have learned so much from that man over the last twenty years, I can’t even tell you. And he calls me to be his firefighter a lot of the time, because there are people who in our movement will not do what it takes to get shit done. And I’m not that person. I’m the one they send when everything has gone to shit. And so he spends a lot of time on the phone with my boss asking me to go places that I don’t wish to go. While the second video captures Foval and the Project Veritas undercover reporter brainstorming about the voter fraud scheme, O’Keefe notes that “Creamer hesitated to help our ‘donor’ pull off the voter fraud scheme that Foval crafted. ” However, Foval did put the Project Veritas “donor” in touch with another leftwing operative who appeared more receptive: Cesar Vargas. As O’Keefe explains: “Vargas is an interesting character. He is the   of the Dream Action Coalition, a New York lawyer, and is a dreamer himself. Born in Mexico, Vargas is an undocumented alien. He has known Bob Creamer for years. ” In the video, Vargas is heard saying about the voter fraud scheme: Like I said, this is not gonna happen this election. So I think it’s about, for us, let’s see who the next president is. If it  —   if it’s Donald Trump, it even makes more sense. The issue will be more credible and it’ll give us more opportunity to jump in there. If it’s Secretary Clinton, and the voter ID laws are losing and we have much more opportunity to vote, and we have immigration reform, it’s not going to be as significant, right? When the Project Veritas reporter points out that this would be “voter fraud,” Vergas replies, “It’s civil disobedience. ” The video ends with a clip of Foval stating, “We have to do a better job of making our people do what they’re supposed to do. Not asking them. Making them. Not expecting them and taking them for granted, but beating the shit out of them. ” O’Keefe notes that more videos in this undercover investigation “will continue through the election. ” Update: J. Christian Adams, the President and General Counsel of the Public Interest Legal Foundation, has filed a legal complaint with the Federal Election Commission against “Hillary for America, the Democratic National Committee, Democracy Partners, Americans United for Change, and other known and unknown individuals and groups” based on O’Keefe’s second video investigation. Adams issued the following statement to Breitbart News: American voter rolls are corrupted with unacceptable numbers of aliens who are illegally registered to vote. Groups should not be coordinating with campaigns and political parties to exploit vulnerabilities in our election system. We hope this matter is fully investigated and that if aliens are voting, they are prosecuted by the Justice Department. That would mark a change in DOJ policies of the last 7 years. As the complaint notes, the Public Interest Legal Foundation (PILF) is “is a   educational and legal foundation dedicated to protect the right to vote, preserve the Constitutional framework of American elections, and educate the public on the issue of election integrity. ” Read their complaint here.