SYDNEY, Australia  —   The actress Amber Heard avoided jail time after a court appearance on Monday over allegations that she had illegally brought two dogs into Australia last year, violating the country’s quarantine laws, while visiting her husband, the actor Johnny Depp. Ms. Heard pleaded guilty in Southport Magistrates Court in Queensland to providing false information on her incoming passenger card after she and the dogs had landed on the Gold Coast on April 21, 2015,  to visit Mr. Depp. He was there filming the fifth movie in the “Pirates of the Caribbean” series. Prosecutors dropped more serious charges against Ms. Heard that claimed that she had illegally imported the dogs, Yorkshire terriers named Pistol and Boo, which could have resulted in a   jail term and a fine of 20, 000 Australian dollars, or about $15, 350. The couple also produced a video acknowledging their transgression and urging others to obey the law, which is intended to prevent the spread of rabies and other diseases. Ms. Heard acknowledged that she had disembarked from her private jet without declaring the dogs, which arrived with her. Her lawyer, Jeremy Kirk, said Ms. Heard, 29, thought that Mr. Depp’s staff had handled the paperwork for the pets. She was   and exhausted, he said. Mr. Depp and Ms. Heard appeared in the local courthouse, where hers was just one of more than 200 cases listed for the day. Fans, some with dogs dressed for the occasion, lined the sidewalk hoping to see the celebrities. In court, the couple handed over their video. “Australia is a wonderful island with a treasure trove of unique animals, plants and people,” Ms. Heard said. The dogs came to the attention of the authorities after a groomer posted photographs of them on social media in May. By then, they had been in the country for around three weeks. The agriculture minister, Barnaby Joyce, told Mr. Depp that unless the dogs were taken out of the country within 72 hours, they would be euthanized. Like many countries, Australia requires that animals be placed in quarantine upon arrival. “If we start letting movie stars  —   even though they have been the sexiest man alive twice  —   to come into our nation” with pets, said Mr. Joyce, now the deputy prime minister, “then why don’t we just break the laws for everybody?” The dogs, he said, should return to the United States. The couple returned to California but publicly criticized the Australian government as being overly zealous, setting off a controversy that the local news media called the “War on Terrier. ”