Actor and prominent Hollywood conservative Jon Voight says he has been meeting with Donald Trump’s presidential campaign to discuss how he can help the Republican Party’s presumptive nominee win the White House in November. [“I’ll be as helpful as I can be,” Voight said in an interview with the Daily Beast. “I intend to be, and we’ll see come convention time if [the Trump campaign] wants me at the convention. If they do, I’ll make plans to go, and we’ll go from there   …     I would like to support him in any way that I can   …     I’m in touch with the campaign, and I fully support Donald. ”  The    Emmy and   actor formally endorsed Trump in March in an exclusive interview with Breitbart News. “The Republicans need to unite behind this man,” Voight said at the time. “We need somebody to go in and reconstruct us in a sort of way, get us back to where we were, who we need to be. ” Three months later, the Coming Home star’s support for the billionaire real estate investor remains resolute. “I think he’s the man for the job,” Voight told the Daily Beast. “I have discussed with them the possibility of being at the convention, and what I might be available to do for them in California. ” After an Islamic   gunman opened fire on innocent patrons of Pulse night club in Orlando Florida earlier in June, Trump doubled down on his proposal to temporarily ban Muslims from entering the United States  —   a proposition that caused lawmakers and the media to reprimand the candidate. Voight, however, believes Trump’s response to the terror attack was more than appropriate. “I think what he’s been saying in all his major press conferences and speeches [ ] have been appropriate, and make very good sense,” he said. Campaigning for Trump would not be Voight’s first foray into presidential politics. When the actor was a    liberal movie star, he stomped for Democratic presidential nominee George McGovern in his unsuccessful bid for president in 1972. And Voight is, of course, the father of Angelina Jolie, who is herself an outspoken political activist and a United Nations High Commissioner on Refugees. Voight was a staunch opponent of President Obama during his 2012   campagin, and endorsed and campaigned for Republican Mitt Romney. The actor now says he’s “very enthusiastic for the Trump candidacy. ” “I just think it’s a time when we desperately need very strong leadership,” he said.   Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson