Girls creator and star Lena Dunham ripped Donald Trump during TheWrap’s Power Women Breakfast in New York on Thursday, calling the presumptive GOP presidential nominee a “megalomaniacal, misogynist, racist, Islamophobic, ableist, transphobic hellhound. ”[The    Golden   actress was a featured speaker at the entertainment publication’s annual breakfast, which honors female trailblazers in the entertainment industry.  “I didn’t think we’d be having a real serious conversation about Donald Trump’s candidacy,” Dunham told TheWrap    Sharon Waxman. “I still laugh when I see him on TV. It’s not funny, it just makes me laugh. ” “I’m trying to connect to the idea that he has appealed to something very deep and very primal, and so we have to look at what that is, and what that wound is, and what that wound is that he seems to be promising to heal,” she added. “And how can we handle that without inviting a megalomaniacal, misogynist, racist, Islamophobic, ableist, transphobic hellhound into the White House. ” Dunham has not shied away from expressing her political opinions during this year’s election cycle. The   is a vocal supporter of presumptive Democrat nominee Hillary Clinton she stumped for Clinton in Iowa and New Hampshire ahead of those state’s primary contests, and even took over the candidate’s Instagram account for a short time in January.  Campaigning with dream babe @abbywambach ! Dress by All Knitwear by @annieleelarson with shoes by @charlotte_olympia.   A photo posted by Hillary Clinton (@hillaryclinton) on Jan 8, 2016 at 12:59pm PST,   Love meeting and talking with the brilliant women of Portsmouth, NH! #ImWithHer   A photo posted by Hillary Clinton (@hillaryclinton) on Jan 8, 2016 at 2:00pm PST,  Dunham has also been particularly outspoken about her disdain for Trump. In April, the actress said she would “100 percent” move to Canada if Trump is elected president. “I know everyone’s always idly threatening this, but I’d be 100 percent moving to Canada,” Dunham said then of the possibility of a Trump presidency. “I love Canada. I think that it’s a great place, and there’s an area in Vancouver that I find beautiful and appealing, and I can conduct business from there. ” For his part, Trump is apparently unfazed by Dunham and other celebrities’ threats to leave the country during an April interview on Fox and Friends, the candidate said he would be doing “a great service to our country” if she the other celebrities followed through on their promises and left. In an earlier interview on Fox and Friends, Trump’s son, Donald Trump Jr. offered to buy the celebrities’ plane tickets.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum