Maggie Haberman, a New York Times political correspondent, has devoted her journalistic career to two irresistible subjects: politics and New York City. At age 7, she had her first byline in The Daily News it has now appeared in all three New York dailies. A native of the Upper West Side who lives in the Crown Heights section of Brooklyn, she has covered 10 election cycles, from mayoral contests to presidential campaigns, including the 2016 race, which turns to New York on Tuesday for its primary. Join us for live primary updates. Hello from Crown Heights, where the trees are finally green enough to canopy over Eastern Parkway and where the New York primary has officially arrived. Donald J. Trump and Hillary Clinton are the heavy favorites to win in their home state, where both have been known presences for many years. But there are some tantalizing subplots that could help direct the remaining acts of this political theater. Voting began at 6 a. m. in parts of the state, and lasts until 9 p. m. everywhere. Some things to watch for: It’s a recurring question in New York, though the answer has been mostly “yes” since 2009 when the state switched to “optimum scan” machines. Still, on a day with two competitive primaries, a recent rarity in the state, there will be a particular focus on whether people are able to cast ballots without disruption. In 2008, the turnout in the state Democratic primary was at a high, with more than 1. 89 million people voting for either Mrs. Clinton, then a senator from New York, or her rival, Barack Obama, then a senator from Illinois. And more than 670, 000 Republicans voted in a primary that, by then, was clearly leaning toward Senator John McCain of Arizona. The New Yorker in the race, Rudolph W. Giuliani, had dropped out long before then. The likelihood of the Democratic turnout reaching the 2008 level is slim. But the Republicans could certainly exceed their 2008 numbers given the enthusiasm that Mr. Trump has set off in pockets of the state, including Staten Island. Large sections of heavily   areas in the city, particularly in Brooklyn, propelled Mr. Obama to victory in 2008. The votes were a shift, not just away from Mrs. Clinton, but also within the black power structure of a city where Harlem had long been the epicenter. Representative Hakeem Jeffries, a Democrat from central Brooklyn, was a key Obama backer in 2008. He now supports Mrs. Clinton with gusto. And black voters have bolstered Mrs. Clinton’s campaign in a series of Midwestern contests with large urban centers, as well as in the South. Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, Mrs. Clinton’s rival, spoke derisively during their debate in Brooklyn last week of her previous wins in the South, comments in which voters could hear a thinly veiled jab at primaries with lots of black voters. But Mrs. Clinton has struggled to energize her supporters in the state, as younger voters, college students and disaffected   white voters have turned toward Mr. Sanders. She will need a large black vote to buoy her here once again. However, most of the Democratic primary vote comes from the city and southern portions of the state. Mr. Trump heads into Tuesday’s vote with a   lead in the polls. The chances of his not winning New York are remote to say the least. But Mr. Trump’s rivals, Gov. John Kasich of Ohio and Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, are trying as hard as possible to keep his share of the vote below 50 percent in the state to limit the number of delegates he can accrue. The geography of victory for Mr. Trump, who barely campaigned in New York City, is also significant. Can he capture congressional districts in Manhattan, where Republicans are far from plentiful and are aligned more with, say, George Pataki, the former governor, than with Mr. Trump? If he can, it suggests that he may still be able to increase his support in the coming months if he tightens his message and becomes more disciplined. Other questions: Can Mr. Kasich capture the suburbs north of New York City, where his message should play best? And did Mr. Cruz repair any of the damage from his criticisms this year of “New York values,” or are northern parts of the state, with heavier evangelical bases, less troubled by that particular salvo? Mr. Sanders’s message is very close to that of Zephyr Teachout, who ran an insurgent campaign against the sitting governor, Andrew M. Cuomo, in the Democratic primary in 2014. Ms. Teachout did not come close to winning. But she exceeded expectations, performing particularly well in the Hudson Valley region north of New York City. Mr. Sanders, in theory, should be able to do similarly well. If he does not, it will raise questions, once again, about the durability of his campaign. “No, no, no, no!” said Omarosa Manigault, perhaps the most famous former “Apprentice” hopeful, who is now an almost   advocate and Friend of Donald on cable television shows. She was standing near him in the lower lobby of Trump Tower on Monday afternoon, talking to members of the Trump “diversity coalition,” a group formed by Mr. Trump’s longtime counselor Michael Cohen to, in part, rebut claims that the candidate is racially insensitive. Two of the members were trying to wedge between the tables separating Mr. Trump from the group. Ms. Manigault put a stop to it. Mr. Trump was grateful for the support. “You look at the other folks running, they couldn’t care less about New York. We care about New York, a lot,” Mr. Trump said. It was part of a busy day for the candidates as they held their final campaign events before the primary. Several hours later, Mr. Sanders held a rally at the open field at Hunter’s Point South Park in Long Island City, Queens. “You all look beautiful!” Mr. Sanders, his voice hoarse at times, called out to the hundreds of people who attended. (He drew 28, 000 people in Prospect Park in Brooklyn on Sunday.) The montage was indeed beautiful, with state and American flags adorning the stage. Attendees lounged as the gauzy strains of the Simon and Garfunkel hit “America” played on the sound system before Mr. Sanders arrived. Children played tag with an adult. A little girl turned cartwheels. But the park was not close to full by 8 p. m. No matter. Mr. Sanders spoke to the crowd with his trademark conviction. “People are standing up and saying, ‘Sorry, the big money interests will not continue to dominate American politics.’ ” Only the New York residents, Mr. Trump and Mrs. Clinton, will hang around the state on Tuesday. Both will vote, most likely with reporters in tow, and then will hold election night parties. Mr. Trump’s will be at Trump Tower, while Mrs. Clinton’s will be at the Sheraton New York.