Just in time to celebrate Donald Trump’s victory in the New Hampshire primary Tuesday night, leftwing comedy website Funny or Die has released a   fake Trump biopic based on his book The Art of the Deal with Johnny Depp starring as Trump. [The   Art of the Deal: The Movie  —   presented as an ’  Movie of the Week  —   began streaming on the site on Wednesday. In addition to Depp, the film stars Michaela Watkins as Ivana Trump, Henry Winkler as Ed Koch, Alfred Molina as Jerry Schrager, and Patton Oswalt as Merv Griffin. Director Ron Howard delivers the movie’s intro.   “Donald Trump has it all. Money, power, respect, and an Eastern European bride,” the website’s synopsis of the film reads. “But all his success didn’t come for nothing. First, he inherited millions of dollars from his rich father, then he grabbed New York City by the balls. Now you can learn the art of negotiation, real estate, and   brass in this illuminating    special feature. ” In the film’s intro, Howard jokingly explains that Trump wrote, produced and starred in the    film in the 1980s, but locked it away in a vault forever after a Monday Night Football game went into overtime and scuttled its release. The film centers on Trump’s quest to build the Taj Mahal in Atlantic City while he spars with Koch and Griffin, enlists the help of his “c —   ” attorney Schrager, battles the NFL, and celebrates his 40th birthday. Obviously, the film takes plenty of shots at Trump. Among them: his secretary tells him “the actress from Maximum Overdrive is named Marla Maples,” (whom he would later go on to marry and divorce) and that he is “no longer a registered Democrat. ” Funny or Die, founded by comedian Will Ferrell and   Adam McKay, has long served as both a liberal creative tastemaker and as a functioning outreach vehicle to plug Democrat policies. In September 2013, the site released a comedic video starring Jennifer Hudson to promote Obamacare. A few months later, Zach Galifianakis interviewed President Obama on his “Between Two Ferns” web series, where the president urged young people to sign up for health insurance through the exchanges. In April of last year, the comedy site announced it would open an office in Washington, D. C. and hired former Obama administration official Brad Jenkins to manage it. The site has also repeatedly lampooned conservatives with skits like “Prop 8: The Musical” and “Indiana’s   Tourism Commercial. ” According to the New York Times, the new Trump film’s existence was kept secret for months. Depp reportedly filmed his part in four days in early December. Watch the trailer for The Art of the Deal: The Movie above. Watch the full film here.