Former President Bill Clinton ridiculed Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump for his slogan “Make America Great Again” suggesting that it was a false promise to American voters and racially motivated. [“That message, I’ll give you America great again  —   If you’re a white southerner, you know exactly what it means,” Clinton said.  The former president indicated that Trump’s campaign slogan signaled that he would make white people more culturally dominate over other races in the country. “What it means is I’ll give you the economy you had 50 years ago and I’ll move you back up the social totem pole and other people down,” Clinton said. Clinton insisted that Trump was only hurting blue collar workers, suggesting the Republican candidate was only cynically lying to get their votes. “I get it   …     that’s my culture,” he said. “And I have watched more working class white people manipulated all my life. People rubbing salt into their wounds instead of bandaging their wounds. ” Clinton also suggested that Trump’s vow to make America great again was a false promise. “Saying I’d like to Make America Great again is like me saying I’d like to be 20 again,” Clinton said. “Actually I would,” he chuckled, “But I wouldn’t vote for anyone promising to make me 20 again. ” However, Clinton failed to mention that in the 2008 Democratic primary, he cut a radio ad for Hillary  —   promising voters that she would “Make America Great Again. ” Clinton made his remarks during a political rally for Hillary Clinton in Orlando, Florida, and reminded the audience that he had just turned 70. “I don’t know how I got so old,” he said. “It really bothers me that Hillary’s opponent seems doing best among older people. ” Clinton returned to his criticism of white working voters in West Virginia, describing them as angry people walking around wearing Trump shirts. He explained that coal production had already peaked, and that it was important to change America’s sources of energy to solar panels and windmills to prevent global warming. Blue collar workers from Southern Virginia and East Kentucky, he asserted, were “hurt” and needed more help from the federal government. Clinton also appeared frustrated by Trump’s rhetoric on the campaign trail. “This country is being hurt with all this constant na, na, na, na, na,” he said. “This is about you and your future and you should vote for Hillary because she’s the best change maker I ever knew. ”