Rapper and music mogul Dr. Dre was handcuffed outside his Malibu home Monday after a road rage incident reportedly turned confrontational. [The    rapper  —   real name Andre Young  —   was returning to his oceanside mansion on the Pacific Coast Highway in the beach city when he came upon a man in another car blocking his driveway, according to TMZ, which first broke the story.  Dre asked the man to move his car, and he did, but he reportedly stayed close to Dre’s home, kept cursing at the rapper and was acting “pretty crazy from the ” a source close to Dre told the New York Daily News. Dre reportedly took out his cell phone to record the incident, when the man allegedly exclaimed: “Here we go again, another black guy with a gun. ” The man called police, who arrived on scene at around 11:15 am, patted down the rapper, handcuffed him and briefly detained him in a police cruiser while they investigated the incident. Dre reportedly cooperated with police and denied pulling out a gun. No gun was found and Dre was not arrested, according to a Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department press release. However, the man reportedly initiated a citizen’s arrest and filled out paperwork accusing Dre of brandishing a handgun. The Los Angeles County District Attorney will decide whether to press charges against the rapper. Dre released his third studio album, Compton, last year, in conjunction with the release of the biopic film Straight Outta Compton, which detailed Dre’s ascendance in the music industry with the pioneering rap group NWA. Recently, Dre commented on the Black Lives Matter movement in an interview with the Hollywood Reporter: “It’s crazy how we were getting criticized for this years ago,” says Dre of N. W. A’s provocative songs about   life. “And now, it’s just like, ‘OK, we understand.’ This movie will keep shining a light on the problem, especially because of all the situations that are happening in Ferguson and here in Los Angeles. It’s definitely going to keep this situation in people’s minds and make sure that everyone out there knows that this is a problem that keeps happening still today. ” Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum,  