Presumptive Republican nominee Donald Trump spoke at the Lincoln Memorial in Washington, D. C. on Sunday to Rolling Thunder, an organization of bikers who honor American soldiers who are missing in action, on Memorial Day weekend. [“Memorial Day  —   so important,” Trump stated. “It’s our day and we have to be very proud of it. ”  “It’s an honor to be with you,” the billionaire added, saying no matter where he goes, Rolling Thunder is there. “Do we love the bikers?” Trump touted, “No matter where I go, there’s bikers. ” “I said, ‘What are they all doing here?’ And my people would say, ‘They’re here to protect you Mr. Trump,” he added. “It’s an amazing thing. ” “There is love and it’s an incredible feeling and that’s why I wanted to be with you today,” he told the crowd. “We’re with you 100 percent. ” Trump also said veterans should be able to choose which healthcare provider to go to so they do not experience long waits. “We’re going to pay the bill and that should have happened a long time ago,” he added. Artie Muller, the founder of Rolling Thunder, said earlier in the day that America needs a leader and criticized President Obama for apologizing to foreign countries. “I feel that the country needs president that’s going to lead the country. We don’t need another politician in there,” Muller said during an interview on Fox News early Sunday morning before Trump’s speech. “He bows down to every foreign country,” he stated, referencing Obama and foreign countries, adding, “We don’t have to apologize to anybody they should thank America. ” Secret Service is on the roof of the Lincoln Memorial. I bet that’s a cool view pic. twitter.   —   Joe Perticone (@JoePerticone) May 29, 2016,  ”We are going to rebuild our military and take care of our veterans” @realDonaldTrump at #RollingThunder pic. twitter.   —   Kelly O’Donnell (@KellyO) May 29, 2016,  #DonaldTrump at Rolling Thunder @ Lincoln Memorial ”We certainly don’t win for our veterans  …    it’s gonna end folks.” pic. twitter.   —   Jason Donner (@jason_donner) May 29, 2016, 