Yesterday, I covered Google’s homepage image celebrating human rights activist Yuri Kochiyama, who openly admired Osama Bin Laden and many other violent figures. Over the following 24 hours, her Wikipedia page was rewritten multiple times in an apparent attempt to suppress the damning quotes. [In the past 24 hours, the Yuri Kochiyama Wikipedia article has been edited more times than in the past two years combined. The official edit log shows that the most edited section of the page has been her views on Osama Bin Laden and other dictators.  Also found in the logs is discussion about whether or not Yuri Kochiyama was a “black separatist” or “black nationalist. ” A few users in the edit history appeared to be fighting back against whoever initially doctored out the parts in question. For example, user “Nhorning” tried to take a   stance on the article. “People are free to interpret whatever they want about the shining path in the main shining path article. There is no reason for an emphasis on their positive or negative aspects, or a debate thereof, in this article. ” Further down in the entries, we see claims of “article vandalism” and “  edits. ” These claims were later confronted by an anonymous user, “64. 53. 12. 59,” who said “Stop changing it. This is the truth you idiots. ” Shortly after, the term “black supremacy” was changed to “black liberation movement,” only to be reverted seconds later. The same issue repeated itself only an hour later. It seems a handful of editors were actively trying to erase any mention of black supremacy. Their opponents compromised, replacing “liberation” with “separatism. ” The current Wikipedia article is much shorter and concise than previous versions. There’s no question that the controversy surrounding Google’s feature sparked this debate. The Wikipedia edit log is a stark example of the lengths to which the left will go to rewrite history. Mike Ma is a Vine comedian and contributor to Breitbart Tech.  You can find him on Twitter at @MikeMa_