The 2016 Oscars will be “like a military state” due to the exponential growth of the event’s security contingent. [The increased security is being explained as a response to the December 2 San Bernardino terror attack and the November 13 Paris terror attack.  According to Deadline, good guys with guns will be everywhere: Dolby Theatre in the heart of Hollywood not only will be swarming with hundreds of law enforcement officers, but there also will be SWAT team members with bulletproof vests and tactical gear,   dogs and sophisticated surveillance equipment (both overt and covert). There will be metal detectors, and every car entering into the Hollywood  Highland parking facility will be swept. An anonymous expert on securing such events said roving security teams will be made up of the best of the best: “You want someone who, if something happens, can not only pull out a gun but knows how to use it. ” The increased number of good guys with guns is described as “the new normal” for Hollywood. Breitbart News reported that this trend toward heavier security was witnessed on January 10, during the 73rd annual Golden Globe Awards. We also reported the irony of the fact that so many good guys with guns were being hired to protect Hollywood celebrities, many of whom spend their careers lambasting average Americans’ ability to own guns. The Golden Globes were protected by layer after layer of security personnel carrying   handguns and “assault rifles” with “high capacity” magazines. Photos of the weapons and those carrying them were ubiquitous. First time I’ve ever seen security with machine guns walking #GoldenGlobes (@ScottFeinberg) https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Janice Min (@janicemin) January 11, 2016,  The same type of weaponry will be used as part of the security at Oscars. Yet, ironically, many of those who will enjoy the benefit of being protected by good guys armed with such weaponry will spend the rest of 2016 using their Hollywood leverage to oppose average Americans’ right to own such weapons for the defense of their lives and families. AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.