Good morning.  Here’s what you need to know: • The Turkish authorities are hunting for the gunman who opened fire at an Istanbul nightclub on New Year’s Day, killing at least 39 people from no fewer than 12 countries. The Islamic State claimed him as “a hero soldier of the caliphate” and appeared to refer to Turkey’s role in the Syrian war. In Iraq, the group claimed a suicide bombing in central Baghdad that killed dozens, even as it makes a brutal   effort to hang on to its only remaining Iraqi stronghold, Mosul. _____ • South Korea’s full Constitutional Court begins formal hearings on the impeachment of President Park  . Public outrage  —   initially aimed at influence by Choi   the daughter of a religious sect leader  —   has turned to broader concerns about the power of the presidency and the influence of   conglomerates like Samsung. The country is seeking the extradition of Ms. Choi’s daughter, who was arrested in Denmark after months of hiding. _____ • House Republicans surprised Washington by voting to hobble a congressional ethics office with no advance notice. The full House will consider the move today as the most powerful   Congress in 20 years goes into session, promising to roll back many of President Obama’s signature policies. Faced with North Korea’s threat to test an intercontinental ballistic missile,   Donald J. Trump took to Twitter to declare bluntly, “It won’t happen!” Over the weekend, Mr. Trump promised to reveal “things that other people don’t know,” possibly as soon as today, about assessments that Russia interfered in the U. S. election. _____ • “We need to fight black money, even though it is hurting little people like me. ” Many Indians agree with that sentiment, voiced by a Delhi taxi driver, saying they are more concerned about reining in corruption than the immediate hardships caused Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ban on   bills. India’s Supreme Court ruled that candidates for political office may not run on   or   appeals. The decision comes ahead of assembly elections that will test the strength of Mr. Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party. _____ • SpaceX traced the explosion of its Falcon 9 rocket in September to the unexpected interplay of supercold helium and oxygen with carbon fibers and aluminum. The company said it would resume launches as early as Sunday. • American tech giants like Google, Apple and Facebook are on a collision course with European regulators over issues including privacy and taxes. •   saunas, or jjimjilbangs, are doing a brisk business in parts of the United States. • Ads from a slew of major U. S. companies prominently feature Muslims as part of an inclusive marketing strategy. • Thinking about asking for a raise, or changing jobs? Or just want to be happier at work? Here’s a roundup of advice on retuning your career. • Most major markets reopen after the New Year’s holiday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • China’s pledge to shut down its commercial ivory trade is galvanizing support among African trading partners and could boost its international standing. [The New York Times] • Suicide bombers struck the international airport in Mogadishu, Somalia, killing at least three security officers. [Al Jazeera] • A prison battle in Brazil between gangs fighting for control of the cocaine trade left about 60 inmates dead  —   some decapitated. [The New York Times] • Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel was questioned by police investigators, indicating that a graft inquiry has become a criminal investigation. [The New York Times] • Pakistan began a   polio immunization campaign in the city of Quetta after a strain of the virus was found in sewage samples. [Reuters] • A Mongolian official’s apology for allowing the Dalai Lama to visit is the latest sign that Chinese pressure is outweighing the country’s deep ties to the Tibetan leader. [The New York Times] • Pan Pan, a    panda who fathered nearly a quarter of the world’s captive pandas, died last week at a conservation center in China’s Sichuan Province. [The New York Times] • The first meteor shower of the year, the Quadrantids, should be visible from Asia in the early hours of Wednesday. [EarthSky] • A cache of notes left by Richard Nixon’s closest aide shows that Nixon, for domestic political reasons, sabotaged a 1968 peace initiative that could have brought the Vietnam War to an early end. • A museum in Yan’an, China, honors a group of American diplomats who in 1944 gave Washington a positive assessment of Mao Zedong, and had their careers destroyed for it. • J. R. R. Tolkien, the author of “The Lord of the Rings,” was born 125 years ago today. Fans around the world plan to toast “The Professor” at 9 p. m. local time. • Tyrus Wong, who endured racial bias to become one of the most celebrated   artists of the 20th century and whose influence was crucial to the animated film “Bambi,” died at 106. • Finally, our Asia correspondents don’t limit themselves to traditional news stories. Sometimes, they’re just taken with a subject, like Myanmar’s unemployed elephants or President Xi Jinping’s favorite jacket. Here are some of our favorites. Enjoy. “I Can’t Drive 55,” the rocker Sammy Hagar once famously wailed, but 43 years ago this week, he and every other American driver were faced with obeying the first federal speed limit. Setting speed limits had been the states’ responsibility. But in 1973, OPEC cut oil shipments to the United States for supporting Israel in a war with its Arab neighbors. The embargo hit the American economy hard. In 1974, President Richard M. Nixon signed the Emergency Highway Energy Conservation Act, lowering the speed limit to reduce consumption. And American car buyers sought out more   vehicles, turning to a country that had not yet been celebrated for automaking: Japan. The debate over road safety and speed limits continued for decades, and in 1995, President Bill Clinton repealed the federal limit, returning the power to the states. In parts of Texas, drivers can legally go 85 m. p. h. That’s the fastest in the country, though it’s slower than a few places in the world. Stretches of Germany’s autobahn have no maximum limit. It’s a far cry from one of the earliest speed restrictions. In 1901, Connecticut limited some drivers to 12 miles per hour. Chris Stanford contributed reporting. _____ Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings. What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes. com.