On Wednesday’s “Hannity” on the Fox News Channel, Florida Senator and Republican presidential candidate Marco Rubio declared that if Democratic presidential candidate former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton is elected, “One of the first things she’ll probably have to do is pardon herself. ” And “My first day in office, I am going to repeal every single one of Barack Obama’s unconstitutional executive orders. ” Rubio also said that his DOJ would look into the Fast and Furious program.  Rubio said, “My first day in office, I am going to repeal every single one of Barack Obama’s unconstitutional executive orders. That means the end to all this gun control stuff, the end to all of these radical environmental policies from the EPA, the end to any sort of federal effort on Common Core. We’re going to cancel any sort of federal funding of abortions overseas. we’re going to end the deal with Iran, that’s just on my first day in office. ” He added, “if Hillary Clinton, God forbid were elected president. One of the first things she’ll probably have to do is pardon herself. This is very serious. Number one, obviously, there’s a legal element to it. And again, we’re going to leave that to the FBI and to the Justice Department. I can tell you, when I’m president of the United States, we’re going to have an attorney general for whom no one is above the law. And that doesn’t just mean what’s happening now. This also means Fast and Furious. You know, we don’t talk about that anymore. But there were reports today in the press that in the stash that El Chapo had, included guns that were purchased or accessed through Fast and Furious. So, there’s going to be accountability. Eric Holder’s never been held accountable. No one in that department was ever held accountable. We’re going to look at that as well. But moving forward, there’s legal issues here. But let me just say, how can the next    be someone like Hillary Clinton, who inappropriately stashes highly classified information, on her own personal email server, leaving it out there to be picked apart by the Chinese, the Russians, in fact, virtually any advanced intelligence agency could have gotten access to that?” Follow Ian Hanchett on Twitter @IanHanchett