Two female police officers were attacked by a man with a machete shouting ‘Allah hu Akhbar’ outside a police station in Belgium. The attacker, who was shot by a third officer, has now died. [Local media reports that two female police officers were attacked in the city of Charleroi.  2 policières blessées par machette devant hôtel de police par auteur criant Allah Ouhakbar. Individu abattu mais vivant #PoliceCharleroi,  —   Police Charleroi (@PoliceCharleroi) August 6, 2016,  Police in Charleroi confirmed the attacks on Twitter attacks, stating: “Two police officers injured by machete in front of police by someone shouting Allah hu Akhbar. Individual was shot but is alive. ” The attacker has since died from his wounds sustained when he was shot by a third police officer. He was shot in the chest and leg at around 4pm local time. Local media have also reported that the female police officer was taken to hospital with severe facial injuries, and her colleague was less seriously wounded. Charleroi Police have tweeted to confirm that both police officers injured are out of danger. Local media also reported that the female police officer was taken to hospital with severe facial injuries, and her colleague was less seriously wounded. Charleroi Police have tweeted to confirm that both police officers injured are out of danger. Belgium’s Prime Minister, Charles Michel, is said to be “closely monitoring” the situation and will meet tomorrow with the country’s security services. His spokesman said early indications for the motive are “very much towards a terrorist attack”. Mr. Michel is a member of the Reformist, liberal party. He warned in March that he feared more attacks would occur in his country after two bombs struck the downtown area of the capital, Brussels. Le décès de l’agresseur à la machette est confirmé. Les deux collègues sont hors de danger. Merci pour le soutien #PoliceCharleroi,  —   Police Charleroi (@PoliceCharleroi) August 6, 2016,  Charleroi, 40 miles south of Brussels, was used as a base by the jihadist Abdelhamid Abaaoud,  who was involved in the attacks on Paris on the 13th of November 2015. A security perimeter is now in operation around the police station. PICTURES FROM THE SCENE: 