Republican presidential nominee Donald J. Trump and his Democratic opponent Hillary Rodham Clinton are tied in the battleground state of Nevada, the latest Breitbart News   Marketing survey shows. [Both Trump and Clinton are at 46 percent each, while Libertarian Gary Johnson is at three percent and the Green Party’s Dr. Jill Stein is at one percent. Five percent remain undecided. Technically, Stein is not on the ballot in Nevada.  NEVADA (October 27, 2016) by Breitbart News on Scribd,  Nevada’s six electoral votes —  which will go to the winner of the state, Trump or Clinton —  are crucial to either’s path to 270 electoral votes, the threshold necessary to win the presidency, on election day. The new survey, which polled 875 registered voters in Nevada with a margin of error of 3. 3 percent, was conducted on Oct. 25. That means the survey was done before the FBI reopened its criminal investigation into Hillary Clinton’s illicit home brew email server, which the FBI announced Friday afternoon. On the Hillary Clinton email question, when asked in the poll whether the FBI made the right decision or wrong decision to not indict Clinton, a majority —  50 percent —  of Nevadans surveyed said the FBI made the wrong decision. Only 45 percent said the FBI made the right decision and 5 percent were unsure. A majority in the poll do not think that America is on the right track and also want to change directions from the path that President Barack Obama —  an ally of Hillary Clinton —  has the country on.   percent think America is on the wrong track, compared to 42 percent who think the country is moving in the right direction and 6 percent don’t know. Also, 54 percent want the country to change direction from the path Obama has put America on, while just 42 percent want to continue on Obama’s path and 4 percent don’t know. Both Trump and Clinton have high unfavorability numbers. A majority, 54 percent, view Trump as either strongly or somewhat unfavorable, and 52 percent think so of Clinton. In Nevada’s U. S. Senate race, the Republican candidate Rep. Joe Heck ( ) is not faring as well as Trump in the state. In fact, Democratic candidate Catherine Cortez Masto is beating Heck by 6 points —  leading him 50 percent to 44 percent, with 6 percent unsure —  well outside the survey’s margin of error. Heck’s failure to rise to the occasion in the poll against Masto in the race to replace outgoing Democratic Senate leader Sen. Harry Reid ( ) comes after he’s openly criticized Trump in the state. The Nevada poll numbers on other issues like trade, immigration, the media’s handling of the election coverage, Obamacare and more all seem to match general national polling results.