People between the ages 13 and 20 are spouting bizarre ideas about the relationships between boys and girls, according to a new study by a division of advertising giant J. Walter Thompson.[  percent of respondents from the     “said they know someone who went by gender neutral pronouns such as ‘they,’ ‘them,’ or ‘ze,’ compared to 43 percent” of Gen Y, also known as Millennials, says the study.  The Gen Zers also say their peers reject the “gender binary” when shopping.  “Gender binary” is a new progressive term intended to stigmatize the reality that boys and girls usually want different things. When shopping for shoes, for instance, 39 percent of the boys might buy   or maybe even   bras, says the study, which does not seem to recognize the probability that the youthful respondents are amusing themselves by fooling the surveyors. A mere 48 percent of Gen Z describe themselves as “completely heterosexual,” and six percent consider themselves “completely homosexual. ” All the rest portray themselves as somewhat  . Correspondingly, 91 percent of them say they strongly or somewhat agree that they or other “people are exploring their sexuality more than in the past. ”   percent of them strongly or somewhat agree that “gender doesn’t define a person as much as it used to. ” Seventy percent say gender neutral bathrooms should be provided in public. Gen Zers, however, don’t really seem to think these transsexual opinions shape their own lives, because they don’t bother to learn the new terms that progressives are creating to psychologically dismantle the reality of male and female, of boy and girl. The campaign to destroy the   valuable and evolved idea of male and female is intended to help destroy the traditional social attitudes that allow Americans to quietly govern themselves without any need for large government. This     strategy is part of the overall push for “diversity. ” Only 18 percent of the youths had ever heard the “aromantic” term, which is supposed to describe people who are not interested in sex.   percent had never heard the progressives’ new term, “cisgender,” which is intended to suggest that normal views about sex and gender need to be explained. That term is the opposite of “transgender,” which usefully recognizes how rarely individuals try to live as members of the other sex.   percent of the youths had never heard of the term “” which is the ideological term used by progressives to insist that males and females are not biologically and physiologically different, but are merely different choices from a menu of gender options. In reality, only about 0. 3 percent of Americans change their names and lifestyles from male to female or the reverse, and less than four percent of Americans tell surveyors that they’re homosexual, bisexual, or lesbian. The good news is that studies show that youngsters who claim to be confused about the difference between boys and girls generally snap out of the progressives’ fever by their  .