Fresh from using the “R” word during a recent   with Sean Hannity, Donald Trump on Monday released on Instagram a new campaign ad against Hillary Clinton featuring the voice of Bill Clinton’s rape accuser, Juanita Broaddrick. [“He starts to bite on my top lip and I try to pull away from him,” Broaddrick is heard saying in the brief ad.  Bill Clinton can be seen in the background with a cigar in his mouth.  Watch the full ad here: Is Hillary really protecting women? A video posted by Donald J. Trump (@realdonaldtrump) on May 23, 2016 at 8:27am PDT,  The Broaddrick audio comes from an emotional interview that she gave to NBC’s Dateline in 1999 describing the alleged rape. Broaddrick says Clinton raped her at a hotel when she was a nursing home administrator volunteering for   Attorney General Bill Clinton’s 1978 gubernatorial bid. She told NBC’s Dateline that she resisted when Clinton suddenly kissed her: Then he tries to kiss me again. And the second time he tries to kiss me he starts biting my lip   …     He starts to, um, bite on my top lip and I tried to pull away from him. And then he forces me down on the bed. And I just was very frightened, and I tried to get away from him and I told him ‘No,’ that I didn’t want this to happen but he wouldn’t listen to me.   …     It was a real panicky, panicky situation. I was even to the point where I was getting very noisy, you know, yelling to ‘Please stop.’ And that’s when he pressed down on my right shoulder and he would bite my lip.   …     When everything was over with, he got up and straightened himself, and I was crying at the moment and he walks to the door, and calmly puts on his sunglasses. And before he goes out the door he says ‘You better get some ice on that.’ And he turned and went out the door. ” In an interview with this reporter last week, Broaddrick was asked to comment on the statements made by Trump at a campaign stop earlier this month, where the presidential candidate slammed Hillary Clinton as “unbelievably nasty, mean enabler” who “destroyed” the lives of her husband’s mistresses and alleged victims. Broaddrick replied: “I feel like she has been the enabler behind him in allowing him to continue on the same path that he did back in the ’70s and ’80s and ’90s. He has absolutely no morals when it comes to women. ” Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio. ” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.