The feminist activist group UltraViolet condemned Donald Trump’s comments on the Second Amendment on Tuesday, saying that he had threatened violence against Hillary Clinton, and that he had done so because she is a woman. [Nita Chaudhary, the group’s   issued a statement:  “If you thought Donald Trump couldn’t sink any lower you were wrong. His continued insistence that if the first woman president is elected it will be illegitimate, ‘rigged,’ and now worthy of ‘second amendment’ remedies is beyond the pale, but not surprising from a man whose life has been dedicated to denigrating women and whose campaign has been built on espousing violence against his   political enemies. This kind of rhetoric from a presidential candidate is dangerous and it ought to horrify every American. ” UltraViolet Action describes itself as “an online community of over 1, 000, 000 women and men who take collective action to expose and fight sexism in the public sector, private sector and the media. ” Trump’s 2nd Amendment threat isn’t that surprising given how he denigrates women  espouses violent rhetoric: https:  .   —   UltraViolet (@UltraViolet) August 9, 2016,  Though it has not made any recent statements about Bill Clinton’s alleged sexual assaults, UltraViolet Action has targeted conservatives almost exclusively, including U. S. Rep. Blaine Luetkemeyer ( ) who called Sen. Elizabeth Warren ( ) the “Darth Vader of the financial services world. ” Chaudhry said the term “Darth Vader” was “offensive, sexist and out of line” when applied to Warren. She also blamed Trump for the remark, telling the Boston Globe: “Comments like these, which sound eerily similar to something that Donald Trump would say, have no place in American politics and speak to the impact that Donald Trump is having on the discourse coming out of the Republican party. ” Trump did not, in fact, call for Clinton or anyone else to be assassinated. As UltraViolet itself noted in a tweet  —   unintentionally undoing its own argument  —   Trump’s rhetoric is simply what gun owners have been saying for decades: that attempts to undo the Second Amendment will be politically, and physically, impossible. THIS  —  &gt Trump’s Violent Claim About The Second Amendment  Hillary Clinton Echoes What The @NRA Has Said For Years https:  .   —   UltraViolet (@UltraViolet) August 9, 2016,  Joel B. Pollak is Senior    at Breitbart News. His new book, See No Evil: 19 Hard Truths the Left Can’t Handle, is available from Regnery through Amazon. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.