This interview contains spoilers for Sunday’s episode of “Game of Thrones. ” The beginning of Season 5 of “Game of Thrones” was a time of great excitement for Arya Stark, the fiery young woman, played by Maisie Williams, who is on a mission to right the many wrongs done to her and her tormented family. After finally leaving the hostile Westeros countryside behind, she was on a boat to Braavos, exploring a new world with dreams of a vengeful, exciting life as a highly trained assassin. Sunday’s Season 6 premiere illustrated how badly Arya miscalculated her prospects. After running afoul in last season’s finale of the rules of the Faceless Men, the religious order training her, she is now freshly blind, and spent Sunday’s episode begging in the streets when she wasn’t being whacked with a stick by a girl called the Waif (Faye Marsay). [ Recap: “Game of Thrones” Season 6 premiere ] “If she doesn’t learn to fight without her eyes, she’s getting hit,” Ms. Williams said recently. “The Waif, she’s evil. ” Ms. Williams discussed fighting blind, impatient Arya fans and what Season 6 holds for the youngest Stark daughter. These are edited excerpts from the conversation. Q. Where do things stand with Arya now? A. You can’t comprehend being without your eyes, and you have to put your faith and trust in the people around you, who are also the ones who put you in that position. She has no other choice. So that’s a really interesting position to see her in, because she’s never had to trust someone. It’s a very vulnerable place for her to be at the beginning of the series, but things will turn around. How does this fit into her overall evolution? Because she’s gonna use it all again  —   these are all skills that she’s gonna take with her. A lot of people found Arya’s Season 5 really boring. They were like, “Why is she sweeping floors? Why is she getting hit on the hands?” But this is about a process that she’s going through and its ultimately going to be the best weapon. And when that day comes, when she uses all of this, everyone’s gonna be like, “Wow, that’s so cool!” Which is great, but it wouldn’t have been as cool if you hadn’t seen her go through that process. No one becomes a [warrior] overnight, guys. Give her a break. Is it hard to act blind? For a lot of the   I had contact lenses that were opaque, so I couldn’t see anything anyway. For the fight scenes, I had contact lenses I could see through. But that was more of a health and safety thing, because I was wielding a stick and poor Faye didn’t want to get hit in the face. But she still did. Did she really? Not in the face. We just clipped each other a couple of times. So that was you in the fight scene in the premiere, not a stunt double? That one was all me. There’s stuff later on that we had girls help us with. There’s a shot in the trailer of you taking a flying leap. Yeah that gets a lot more technical. There were two wonderful stunt doubles. How has Arya’s perspective changed since last season? Arya was quite shallow. “I’m gonna be a sick killer and then have my list, and I’m gonna go back and avenge my family. ” It was such a childish way of thinking about it. Then she got there and realized this isn’t a joke this isn’t like a holiday camp your parents send you off to. I know you can’t get into plot details  …     I’m giving you really good hints. [Laughs.] I feel like I’m selling this season really well. But can you speak more broadly about what Season 6 is about for her? It’s her second chance. She’s learning to fight blind, and at the beginning people are going to have that same opinion of, “God, this is so boring. Why isn’t Arya the [warrior] she used to be?” O. K. let’s take away your sight and see how you do without it. There are episodes when it’s going to be really difficult to watch. Arya, who we’ve always loved, is getting pulled apart. But she will ultimately use it to her advantage, just as she always does. She takes every negative and uses it as a positive, and that happens in a big way this year.