WASHINGTON, D. C.  —   Former House Oversight chairman Rep. Darrell Issa ( ) said that the FBI’s decision not to indict Hillary Clinton proves that the   Washington elites play by a “different set of rules” than the rest of the country. [FBI director James Comey admitted as much in his press conference Tuesday, in which he said that if someone else did what Hillary Clinton did, they would be punished. But even though Comey said the FBI found “evidence of potential violation” of classified information law, the agency recommended against indictment.  Issa, the Republicans’ top watchdog until he stepped down as Oversight chairman due to term limits, commented on the hypocrisy in a statement Tuesday. “This stunning decision shows just what the American people are so tired of: a system where the Clintons and the   few get to play by a different set of rules from everyone else,” Issa said. “Despite declining to recommend charges, the FBI Director’s press conference today was nothing short of damning. It proved that Secretary Clinton was not only ‘extremely careless’ in her handling of classified information, but also that she knew better and did it anyway,” Issa said. “Under similar circumstances, anyone else would have to bear the consequences for their actions, but in this case, justice and accountability seem to have evaded the American people once again,” Issa said. Issa recently made news when he appeared on “Breitbart News Saturday” on   Patriot Channel 125. Issa said in that interview that there is enough evidence to indict Hillary Clinton, but that it probably would not happen, meaning that American citizens will have to play prosecutor come November. Considering the lack of investigative power that current Chairman Jason Chaffetz’s Oversight Committee has brought to the email scandal  —   especially compared to Issa’s previous dogged inquiries into the IRS targeting and Fast and Furious scandals  —   it seems likely that Issa might want his old gavel back right about now.