Samsung, with the help of the United States Product Safety Commission, have recalled 2. 8 million   washing machines after reports that 730 of the machines have exploded. [The explosions have resulted in the injury of nine people, with one detailing a washer lid that “flew off and hit a woman in the back, causing her to ‘collide into a cabinet. ’”  “We’re talking about  …     a very serious hazard of the top of these washing machines completely blowing off,” said CPSC Chairman Elliot Kaye about the problem, which has affected 34 models between March 2011 and November 2016. “It is a lot of reports. ” “This is the real world for me,” he continued. “I’ve got two young boys. This would scare the heck out of me, which is why we hope parents and others take advantage of this recall. ” “All of the sudden, without warning the washing machine just exploded,” said one woman who was involved in a Samsung washing machine accident. “It was the loudest sound. It sounded like a bomb went off in my ear. ” “I just remember covering my head and leaning towards my son and just screaming this scream that I didn’t even know I could scream,” she continued. “Samsung is moving quickly to offer safe and easy choices to consumers impacted by the recall,” claimed Samsung in a statement. “Our priority is to minimize any safety risk and address the conditions that lead to the rare instance when the top of the washer unexpectedly separates from the unit. ” “We apologize for the inconvenience this is creating to our loyal customers,” they concluded. “We have worked closely with the CPSC to offer a consumer friendly recall that is safe, easy and complete with choices suited to the needs of anyone who may own a recalled machine. Our service teams are now scheduling visits to consumers’ homes to conduct free repairs and help resolve any concerns they may have. ” In September, Samsung recalled their Galaxy Note 7 smartphone after 35 of the devices also exploded. The problem was blamed on the phone’s batteries, and numerous parodies were made afterwards, including a   who added the phone as an explosive to Grand Theft Auto V. Charlie Nash is a reporter for Breitbart Tech. You can follow him on Twitter @MrNashington or like his page at Facebook.