Roger Goodell, the most powerful man in professional football, prevailed again Monday in his   battle with Tom Brady, one of the game’s most celebrated quarterbacks. And this time, Brady has virtually no chance of escaping a   suspension. Goodell’s victory came in a ruling by a   panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit that overturned a   decision and affirmed that Goodell, the N. F. L. commissioner, had broad discretion to suspend players according to the collective bargaining agreement with the players’ union. The panel’s decision can be appealed to the full Second Circuit, or even the Supreme Court, but the chance of a victory for Brady is “close to nil,” said Michael LeRoy, who teaches labor law at the University of Illinois at  . Assuming nothing changes, Brady could return to regular play as soon as Oct. 9. The N. F. L. ’s decision in the   Deflategate case  —   suspending one of its most popular players for being “generally aware” of a plot to deflate footballs in the 2015 A. F. C. championship game  —   captivated the nation like few football stories. Over the years, sports leagues have fought with some of their best players, including cases in which Major League Baseball butted heads with Barry Bonds and Alex Rodriguez. But never has a showdown between a league and a player centered on whether the player wanted to manipulate the air pressure in a ball. The case drew expert analysis from physicists and excoriation from fans  —   many in New England  —   who believed that the commissioner’s ruling was based on inadequate evidence. The saga raised fundamental questions about fairness on the field how teams look for an edge and whether the commissioner, who views himself as a stern taskmaster, had overstepped his bounds. The league’s decision to go after Brady also pitted the commissioner against Robert K. Kraft, the owner of the Patriots and long one of Goodell’s staunchest allies. At the Super Bowl in Arizona shortly after the scandal broke, Kraft, in a highly unusual move for an owner, lambasted the league for its handling of the case during an impromptu news conference. He also objected to the $1 million fine and loss of draft picks imposed on his team, but eventually accepted the penalties. Brady’s lawyers had argued that he was unfairly suspended after he was accused of involvement in a scheme to deflate footballs used in a playoff game, and last summer, a Federal District Court judge agreed, allowing Brady to play the entire 2015 season. The N. F. L. appealed that ruling to the Second Circuit, which heard oral arguments in early March. The judges were openly skeptical of many of the arguments made by Brady’s lawyer, signaling that they sided with the N. F. L. ’s case that Goodell had broad discretion to suspend players. In their decision, the judges did not consider the underlying facts of the case, including the science of football deflation, but instead looked solely at whether Goodell, as arbitrator, acted in the spirit of the collective bargaining agreement. “We hold that the commissioner properly exercised this broad discretion under the collective bargaining agreement and that his procedural rulings were properly grounded in that agreement and did not deprive Brady of fundamental fairness,” Judges Barrington Daniels Parker Jr. and Denny Chin wrote in their opinion. “Accordingly, we reverse the judgment of the district court and remand with instructions to confirm the award. ” In a dissent, Chief Judge Robert A. Katzmann said that Goodell had overstepped his role as arbitrator by changing his reason for penalizing Brady after he had heard the quarterback’s appeal. Initially, Goodell suspended Brady for his role in the plot to deflate footballs, then argued that Brady had obstructed the league’s investigation of the incident by destroying his cellphone, which might have contained messages between Brady and members of the Patriots’ staff. The Second Circuit made “the right ruling that conforms to a very well established pattern in the labor law,” LeRoy said. The judges said that despite the protestations of Kraft, Brady and the N. F. L. Players Association, Goodell was merely acting on the powers to which the league and union had agreed in their labor deal, the latest of which was signed in 2011. The judges acknowledged that the   pact in which the person who penalizes players also listens to appeals of those penalties might be unconventional, but they would not get in the way of a longstanding and transparent contract. “In their collective bargaining agreement, the players and the league mutually decided many years ago that the commissioner should investigate possible rule violations, should impose appropriate sanctions, and may preside at arbitrations challenging his discipline,” the judges wrote. The N. F. L. hailed the decision. “We are pleased the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit ruled today that the commissioner properly exercised his authority under the collective bargaining agreement to act in cases involving the integrity of the game,” it said in a statement. “That authority has been recognized by many courts and has been expressly incorporated into every collective bargaining agreement between the N. F. L. and N. F. L. P. A. for the past 40 years. ” The players association said it was disappointed. “We fought Roger Goodell’s suspension of Tom Brady because we know he did not serve as a fair arbitrator and that players’ rights were violated under our collective bargaining agreement,” it said in a statement. If Brady’s suspension is not overturned by a higher court, he will presumably sit out the first four games of the season. (He is allowed to play and practice with the team in the preseason.) The Patriots play their opening game in Glendale, Ariz. against the Cardinals, and their next three games at home, in Foxborough, Mass. against the Miami Dolphins, the Houston Texans and the Buffalo Bills. Brady would then be eligible to return in Week 5, when the Patriots travel to Cleveland to play the Browns. The drama began on Jan. 18, 2015, when the New England Patriots hammered the Indianapolis Colts,   to advance to the Super Bowl. Shortly after the game, the N. F. L. began investigating whether the Patriots had used deflated footballs to gain an unfair advantage. “It’s ridiculous,” Brady said at the time, adding, “That’s the last of my worries. ” The N. F. L. released the results of its investigation last May, which stated that two   Patriots employees had knowingly deflated balls below the legal limit and that it was “more probable than not that Brady was at least generally aware of the inappropriate activities. ” A few days after the release of the report, the N. F. L. suspended Brady for four games without pay. By some measures, the case has done nothing to dent Brady’s popularity, or the country’s fascination with one of the sport’s biggest stars. On Monday, the players’ association said that licensed merchandise with Brady’s name on it was the   among all players last season, topping Peyton Manning, Russell Wilson and other popular players. Given the Patriots’ success the past 15 years, some fans are scrambling to adjust to the possibility that Brady will sit out the first four weeks of the season. BookMaker Sportsbook is reassessing its predictions for the Patriots’ season opener against the Cardinals. “Jimmy Garoppolo is certainly serviceable, but he’s not Tom Brady,” the company wrote about Brady’s backup. “And putting him under center on ‘Sunday Night Football’ in Week 1 for his first career N. F. L. start is asking quite a bit, especially against an elite Arizona secondary. ”