Hungarian Prime minister Viktor Orban has delivered a huge blow to the European Union after 95 per cent of the Hungarian public soundly rejected EU migrant redistribution plans. [The Hungarian referendum on the redistribution of migrants and asylum seekers by the European Union has faced an almost unanimous result among Hungarian voters. An overwhelming majority of those who cast their ballot agree with Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban that Hungary should not be forced by the European Union to accept migrants via redistribution.  The victory could set in motion the Orban government’s plans to create laws that may be even more stringent toward asylum seekers who enter the country and possibly those who are residing there today. Spokesman for Orban, Zoltan Kovacs, told press in Brussels last month that he expected the result to affirm the position of the government and be used as a stepping stone to create more laws. However, the victory could be bittersweet for the Hungarian leader as voter apathy led to a low turnout. Many of the opposition parties have told their followers and supporters to either invalidate their ballots or simply not vote at all. Breitbart London spoke to several Hungarians on the streets of Budapest who were   but also expressed concern that the rhetoric surrounding the referendum had gone on for a long time. The victory in the polls for Orban is a clear approval by a huge portion of the population and will likely further frustrate more   countries like Germany and France. German Chancellor Angela Merkel recently said that she had little intention of changing her course in regards to migrant policy despite her severe losses in recent elections. Viktor Orban meanwhile has said that the migrant policies of France and Germany have been “ ” to the European Union. The countries in central and Eastern Europe have a much different view with Poland giving Orban a prestigious man of the year award. The ongoing conflict between the two blocs on migration will likely only be heightened after the referendum result.