U. S. Border Patrol agents in southern California arrested a previously convicted and deported killer shortly after he illegal   the country from Mexico. [Agents from the Calexico Station in the San Diego Sector encountered a    Mexican national near the Calexico West Port of Entry on Thursday night. The agents observed the man running northward from the International Border fence, according to information obtained by Breitbart Texas from U. S. Customs and Border Protection officials.  The Border Patrol agents caught up with the man and interviewed him. During the interview, it was determined determined the man had illegally crossed the border from Mexico. They arrested him and took him to the Calexico Border Patrol Station for processing. A background records check on the Mexican national revealed he had previously been convicted in the United States for voluntary manslaughter and weapons charges. The convictions earned the man a   prison sentence in the State of California prison system. He was deported from the United States in 2012. “While carrying out our duties as Border Patrol agents, we sometimes encounter dangerous individuals with prior criminal histories attempting to enter the country illegally,” Acting Special Operations Supervisor Miguel Garcia said in a written statement. “This arrest shows how we strive to ensure the safety and   of our community while also enforcing immigration laws. ” The Mexican national now faces additional criminal prosecution for felony   After Removal as a convicted felon. The frequent   of previously deported criminal aliens reported by Breitbart Texas, including violent felons, child rapists, and other sex offenders, reveals the need to better secure the border to prevent such crossings. Earlier this month, a Mexican national who had been deported five times returned yet again to allegedly begin a series of violent assaults and rapes of women in Austin, Texas. Federal prosecutors from the Western District of Texas declined to prosecute the man for illegal   despite a request for prosecution from Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents from Enforcement Removal Operations. The man had been deported four times at that point for three DUI offenses. That failure to prosecute and the resulting assaults and rapes are now part of a probe by members of the House and Senate Judiciary Committees. Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas. He is a founding member of the Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX.