ASHLAND, Ohio  —   Republican vice presidential nominee Gov. Mike Pence has been hammering away at media bias against his running mate Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump, and on Tuesday he cited proof to hundreds gathered at Ashland University in Ohio. [“Since the two national conventions, in the 12 weeks that would follow, there has essentially been a   …     that Donald Trump has received a majority of the media coverage, but 91 percent of his coverage has been hostile. They must have missed the other nine percent,” Pence told the enthusiastic crowd.  He cited the statistic from a new study put out by the Media Research Center (MRC). MRC NewsBusters reported: In the twelve weeks since the party conventions concluded in late July, Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump has received significantly more broadcast network news coverage than his Democratic rival, Hillary Clinton, but nearly all of that coverage (91%) has been hostile, according to a new study by the Media Research Center (MRC). In addition, the networks spent far more airtime focusing on the personal controversies involving Trump (440 minutes) than about similar controversies involving Clinton (185 minutes). Donald Trump’s treatment of women was given 102 minutes of evening news airtime, more than that allocated to discussing Clinton’s   scandal (53 minutes) and the Clinton Foundation    scandals (40 minutes) combined. Audience shouts could be heard at the Ashland, Ohio rally as Pence spoke of Clinton’s actions as she served as Secretary of State under President Barack Obama, of the destruction of her private email server, the emails sent over it, and Clinton not sending help to Americans who were attacked by Islamic terrorists in Benghazi, Libya, then lying to loved ones of those killed in the attack about the cause of it. Those audience calls included, “She should be in jail,” “liar,” and “drain the swamp. ” Rally attendee Jim Lawhead told Breitbart News that he came from about half an hour away and wanted to support the campaign. Lawed said he thought Pence made a good point to mention the new MRC study that showed 91 percent hostile media coverage of Trump. He characterized the crowd gathered for vice presidential candidate Pence as at least as enthusiastic as those at events for the Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton. “I think on the ground the energy for the   ticket is amazing. ” He spoke of going to major websites and seeing primarily hostile coverage of Trump. Follow Michelle Moons on Twitter @MichelleDiana 