President Barack Obama accused “right wing” talk radio and cable channels like Fox News of angering white people in America about the economy, arguing that it was actually doing really well under his administration. [During his speech, Obama decried Republicans who campaigned on stopping “welfare queens” complaining about “makers and takers” and even referred to Mitt Romney’s 47 percent comment.  “Their basic message is       and let’s face it  —   it’s ” Obama said, accusing them of lying just to oppose him. “What they are saying just isn’t true,” he said, before launching his own attempt at “mythbusting” narratives from conservative media. Obama complained that people failed to recognize that he was succeeding in improving the economy, cutting the deficit, and cutting spending. “It’s the story that is broadcast every day on some cable news stations, on right wing radio it’s pumped into cars and bars and VFW halls all across America and right here in Elkhart,” he said. “If you’re hearing that story all the time, you start believing it. It’s no wonder people start thinking big government is the problem. ” Because of conservative radio, Obama argued, “White Americans think that reverse discrimination is as big a problem as discrimination against minorities. ” Obama argued they were wrong, since black unemployment was still twice as high as white unemployment and Hispanic women earned 55 cents for every dollar earned by a white man. —  Obama warned voters against listening to Trump’s political argument. “The one thing I can promise you is if we turn against each other based on divisions of race and religion —  if we fall for a bunch of   just because it sounds funny or the tweets are provocative, then we’re not going to build on the progress we started. ” At one point, Obama stuttered repeatedly when speaking about Trump.  Obama discouraged voting on the basis of cynicism and fear instead of on common values. “We all love this country. We all care about our children’s futures. That’s what makes us great. That’s what makes us progress and become better versions of ourselves,” he said. Obama made his speech at Elkhart, Indiana, where a majority of voters in the county voted against him in the 2012 presidential election. One person in the crowd shouted “one more time!” suggesting that she wanted Obama to run again for office. “No I can’t do that,” Obama said. “The Constitution prohibits it but more importantly Michelle prohibits it. ”  