Rocker Neil Young penned a lengthy letter on Facebook Monday demanding that President Obama “end the violence” against activists protesting the construction of the Dakota Access oil pipeline being built in North Dakota. [“We are calling upon you, President barack Obama, to step in and end the violence against the peaceful protesters at Standing Rock immediately,” Young wrote.  The “Rockin’ in the Free World” singer called the controversial protest on the Standing Rock Indian Reservation “an awakening” that has seen activists “standing strong in the face of outrageous, unnecessary and violent aggression, on the part of militarized local and state law enforcement agencies and National Guard, who are seemingly acting to protect the interests of the Dakota Access Pipeline profiteers, at a cost of hundreds of thousands of   dollars. ” The Standing Rock Sioux Tribe has spent months protesting the pipeline project, on grounds that it would desecrate sites held sacred to the tribe. The pipeline is expected to transport more than 470, 000 barrels of oil a day across four states. In his open letter, Young also chided and rebuked   Donald Trump, avoiding mentioning his name but labeling him the “surprise president. ” “The surprise president elect was not the winner of the popular vote [and] does not have a mandate for the change of ideals envisioned. Keep in mind, close to over two million more people voted for another candidate,” the rocker wrote. “Nor is the surprise president the leader of the free world. Two hundred of the world’s nations believe in science, above the profits of the oil, gas and coal industries, and are committed to working together to protect the future from an unchecked climate crisis. ” The pipeline protest has seen it’s fair share of attention from celebrities. Actress Shailene Woodley was arrested at the site in October and charged with criminal trespassing and engaging in a riot. While protesting the $3. 7 billion,   pipeline last week, the Snowden star said “Thanksgiving was founded on a massacre. ” Actors Mark Ruffalo and Leonardo Dicaprio, among other stars, have also criticized the project.   Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter @jeromeehudson