A Polish Member of the European Parliament has waded into the debate surrounding Bill and Hillary Clinton and the recent comments made about Polish and Hungarian democracy. [Speaking exclusively to Breitbart London, Tomasz Piotr Poreba  —   a former Adviser to the Committees on Foreign Affairs and Regional Development in the European Parliament  —   alleged that Bill Clinton’s recent foreign policy gaffe over Polish democracy was merely him following the orders of   billionaire George Soros.  Earlier this week Mr. Clinton upset NATO allies when he accused Poland and Hungary of thinking “democracy is too much trouble” and wanting to have an “authoritarian dictatorship. ” In an attempted swipe at Republican presumptive nominee Donald Trump, he said: “[Poland and Hungary] want   leadership. Just give me an authoritarian dictatorship and keep the foreigners out. Sound familiar?” But he was rebuked by European leaders who also demanded an apology. Now, a Member of the European Parliament had waded in. Mr. Poreba MEP told Breitbart London: “In my opinion this comment was rather inspired by influential liberal groups. Not so long ago relations between the Clintons and billionaire Soros were revealed.  “Not so long ago relations between the Clintons and billionaire Soros were revealed.  “Mr Soros has expressed his negative opinions on Poland and the new Polish government several times.  “I treat this latest comment on Poland and Hungary as a part of   relationship: Soros supports Clintons and Clinton followed his order. That is no secret. ” Mr. Clinton’s comments also prompted outrage amongst the   community, who blindsided Hillary Clinton during a campaign stop in her hometown of Park Ridge, Illinois. Dozens of protesters gathered to demand an apology, express solidarity with the new Polish government, and chant “No More Clintons!” as Mrs. Clinton attempted to raise money nearby. Mr. Clinton’s comments also drew the ire of the head of the Polish Law and Justice Party, who said: “If someone says there is no democracy in Poland today, that means he should have a medical test”. Mr. Soros  —   who has openly and consistently opposed national sovereignty and border control across Europe  —   stands accused of funding groups attempting to destabilise Poland’s new, democratically elected,   government. Mr. Soros has been the subject of criticism from Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban, who has hurled accusations of Mr. Soros’s funding and support of the European migrant crisis at the billionaire, not without evidence. Follow Raheem Kassam on Twitter