WILTSHIRE, England  —   Sir James Dyson, the British designer and engineer, sporting sneakers, cobalt blue spectacles and a voluminous thatch of silvery hair, stood in his vast glass office in the depths of the English countryside one recent Tuesday afternoon. He was clutching a device that he contends could change the monotony of bathroom routines forever. “There has been zero innovation in this market for over 60 years,” said Mr. Dyson, 68, a billionaire who was knighted by Queen Elizabeth II in 2006. “Millions of people use contraptions daily that are hideously inefficient, waste their time and are causing them   damage,” he said. “We realized that we could  —   and should  —   sort this situation out. ” He triumphantly held up what appeared to be a sleek black and pink plastic doughnut on a stick. “Four years, 100 odd patents and 600 prototypes later, I think we might have found the answer. ” Known as the Dyson Supersonic and unveiled in Tokyo on Wednesday, the device is his response to a question many never thought to ask: Is it possible to make a better hair dryer? This may not seem like a big deal. A few burned scalps and frizz issues aside, people have been doing just fine with the standard hair dryer for decades. But, as Dai Fujiwara, a Japanese fashion designer who collaborated with Mr. Dyson on an Issey Miyake runway presentation, wrote in an email, “Because everyday life is too common, people rarely realize there is a problem. ” About 92 percent of British women regularly use a hair dryer (according to the consultancy Mintel) while 75. 5 percent of all women and 24. 5 percent of men in the United States and 97 percent of women and 30 percent of men in Japan use one (according to Dyson) and most spend an average of 20 minutes on each session. So changing even a small percentage of that behavior could have outsize repercussions. Mr. Dyson, Britain’s   living inventor, is the Steve Jobs of domestic appliances. He has built a fortune from making otherwise standard products seem aesthetically desirable, in the process persuading untold numbers of consumers that they really, really want cordless and bagless vacuum cleaners, air purifiers, bladeless fans and even household robots. “His inventions are disruptive  —   beautifully so,” said Terence Conran, the British restaurateur, retailer and furniture designer. “Who would have imagined that a bagless vacuum cleaner could become a highly covetable status symbol? He has made other businesses think differently about how to use design, creativity and innovation. ” Mr. Dyson studied furniture design and architecture at the Royal College of Art in London. He is currently provost there. “His advocacy for the discipline and for British manufacturing has had a profound influence on the British national psyche,” said Dr. Paul Thompson, rector of the Royal College. Now Mr. Dyson is trying to extend that influence into hitherto unchartered territory: the global beauty and grooming sector. Dyson said there were 103 engineers involved in the creation of the Supersonic, which included the taming of over 1, 010 miles of human hair tresses and 7, 000 acoustic tests as teams tackled three core issues: noise, weight and speed. Ground zero for the project was the Dyson research facility, a Willy   world deep in the rolling Wiltshire hills, with a Harrier fighter jet and spliced Mini car in the visitors’ parking lot. Projects are kept firmly under lock and key from virtually all outsiders  —   as well as many within the walls itself (which, like those owned by Roald Dahl’s flamboyant fictional chocolate factory owner, are often painted a lurid purple). Matt Kelly was one of many young engineers milling around the plant in near identikit uniforms of hoodies, jeans and sneakers or battered brogues. “You can sit next to someone in the cafeteria here for years and not have the first idea what they are working on, and they will have no clue what you do, either,” Mr. Kelly said. “Discretion and an ability to keep secrets are essential traits if you want to work at Dyson. ” Especially when doing something so counterintuitive as moving from the practical question of what to use to clean carpets to the more   question of what to use to style a personal image. Ed Shelton, a design manager for the Supersonic, said: “It was the hardest project I’ve ever worked on. Beyond having to crack the science of hair, we’ve had to tackle a highly subjective user psychology. “Trust me when I say there are many more approaches and angles to   than vacuuming in the world. British women want volume. Japanese women want straightness. No one wants hair damage. And then we had to create a fleet of robots specifically to test that over and over again. ” The company says the key to the Supersonic is its     motor. About the size of a quarter, the motor is small enough to fit in the base of the hair dryer handle, rather than in the conventional motor position at the top of the device, a shift that creates its unorthodox streamlined aesthetic. The smaller motor allows for high velocity flow but not pressure, the company says, which is how temperatures shoot up on traditional hair dryers and users burn themselves if the dryer is too close to the head. The company says the positioning of the motor in the hand also limits the   dumbbell effect of   models, where   weighting can cause arms to ache. Weighing just 370 grams, the new structure allows for a longer silencer tube and smaller fan, cutting down drastically on noise. Coupled with the high motor speed, the fusion of new technologies gives rise to Dyson claims that the sound waves can operate at an ultrasonic level  —   in other words, at frequencies higher than the upper audible limit for humans. It also has magnetic heatproof nozzles and intelligent heat sensors to prevent hair burn. “Frankly, I’m rather terrified,” Mr. Dyson said. “We had to learn a great deal with the Supersonic, and there have been a lot of firsts on all fronts, including the fact that I had to grow my hair especially for a launch. ” “It hasn’t been this long since my ’60s student days, when I wore flowered shirts and flares,” Mr. Dyson said. Despite his newly flowing locks, both Dyson the man and Dyson the company are conscious that they may not come across as the most convincing of beauty gurus. Consequently, the company has enlisted the services of Jen Atkin, a celebrity hairstylist with a client Rolodex that includes Kim Kardashian, Jessica Alba and Katy Perry and a social media following of millions. Her job is to decode the appliance and its styling power to viewers via online tutorials following the introduction (i. e. she’s a brand ambassador) but her input was also instrumental in its creation. Jake Dyson, the oldest son of Mr. Dyson and heir apparent to the Dyson helm, said the company understood that personal care “was a radically different market from the ones we are used to competing in. Cleaning floors is much less glamorous than styling hair. ” Ms. Atkin, who can see up to 30 clients a day, said she had initially begun the relationship by “giving her two cents” to Dyson engineers on the model and what it needed. “That   feeling that usually makes your arms ache completely disappears with this, whether working on your own hair or blow drying someone else,” she said. “For me, or any woman, that is a game changer. This is the ‘break the Internet’ dryer. ” As with any other Dyson device, research and development didn’t come cheap: The investment, including a     hair laboratory, reached £50 million (about $72 million). As a result, the Supersonic will retail at $399 when it arrives in the United States at Sephora stores in September, a price at stark odds with the     business model that has traditionally defined the competitive hair dryer market. Currently, hair dryers sold by Amazon in the United States retail for $12. 99 to $219. 98. Still, Dyson has a convincing track record in persuading fans to pay hundreds of dollars on domestic status symbols that spend most of their working lives in the cupboard under the stairs or next to the dog basket. But there have been expensive failures along the way, like its washing machine, which the company no longer makes. More recently, some of Dyson’s boldest claims, about advancing science in certain markets, have also been called into question by critics like the University of Westminster in London. This month the university released research suggesting that Dyson Airblade hand dryers spread 60 times more germs than standard air dryers, and 1, 300 times more than standard paper towels, although the assertion is one that the company emphatically and repeatedly rejects. So the hair dryer stakes are high and the market deeply fragmented, not least by the popularity of newer   electrical appliances like straightening irons and curling tongs. Can Dyson really pull off another product revolution? “This all does feel a lot more personal than usual,” Mr. Dyson said. “Which I suppose makes me a little nervous. But actually, I have found everything we are learning with the Supersonic very exciting. It’s the start of a new push into this sector for us. Though I can’t tell you more than that. ” What he can say is that the company is set to spend £1. 5 billion (about $2. 2 billion) investing in future technology and recently announced the development of four new portfolio sectors. While bullish, he also knows that not all his   inventions could be winners. “I actually believe that success teaches you nothing failures teach you everything,” he said, surrounded by sketches and prototypes in his meticulously cluttered office. One hundred new products are in the pipeline in the next four years around the world, he said. The hair dryer is just the beginning. “For decades, people have just accepted a subpar experience because no one was offering them anything else,” said Stephen Courtney, concepts director at Dyson and a leader on the hair project. The company wants to change that, one locker room, spa and beauty salon at a time.