Charles Woods, the father of Tyrone Woods, the former Navy SEAL killed at Benghazi, Libya the morning of Sept. 12, 2012, along with three other Americans, endorsed Donald J. Trump for president. [“I support Donald Trump, and the main reason is national security as well as the economy are the two most important issues that voters are going to have to decide upon next November,” said Woods, who is a retired lawyer and administrative law judge. His son was a CIA contractor hired to provide security for American personnel and facilities in Benghazi. The other Americans killed were Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens, State Department IT specialist Sean Smith, and former Navy SEAL Glen Doherty, who was also a CIA contractor but assigned to Tripoli.  Doherty led a team from Tripoli to assist the personnel at Benghazi, who were defending against multiple attacks, first to the American diplomatic compound, where Stevens and Smith were killed, and then at the CIA annex less than two miles away. Woods and Doherty were killed in the same mortar attack upon their rooftop position after eight hours of combat. Trump said he was honored to receive the endorsement from Woods. “Tyrone Woods is an American hero and his father is a tremendous person whom I have great respect for. His support is so important to me. Together we are going to defeat Hillary Clinton in November and make America safe again. ” In January, Woods challenged Trump’s opponent, Hillary R. Clinton to take a lie detector test after the former first lady denied that she had told Woods and other relatives of those killed at Benghazi that the attack was associated with a protest against a YouTube video that dealt with the life of the Prophet Mohammed. Watch this video of Woods explaining how Hillary R. Clinton lied to him: Woods said Clinton’s poor judgment led to these tragic deaths in Libya. “First, her reckless decision to invade Libya unleashed radical Islamic terror groups that threatened Americans. Compounded with her failure to provide the necessary security upgrades and reinforcements cost four Americans their lives,” he said. “After it all, she lied to the world about what happened to cover up the role of Radical Islam. We could have known more about her actions, but she illegally stored and then deleted 33, 000 emails. ”