Politico reports Oct. 27 that the libertarian Koch brothers are cutting back their huge but ineffective political operation, marking another success for the nation’s rising populist movement. [On a drizzly Monday morning in   about 200 staffers from the Koch brothers’ conservative advocacy network were summoned to the fifth floor auditorium of the Charles Koch Institute’s Arlington, Virginia, headquarters, and presented with some bleak news: their efforts to reshape American politics were faltering and were being scaled back amid concerns about    fundraising. In recent years, the   network’s forays into federal elections and policy fights had resulted in “very little success,” the managers were told by top Koch official Mark Holden, according to three people familiar with the meeting. The Koch brothers’ great wealth was honestly earned in the unforgiving energy sector, where careless progressive dreamers quickly get blown up, bankrupted and forgotten. So the   politics promoted by Charles Koch and David Koch are a rational match for their business needs  —   they favor small governments, low taxes, low spending, and free trade, plus egalitarian social policies that gradually overlap with the progressives’ radical demands for unlimited immigration and sexual revolution.  But the 2016 election shows that the Koch’s package of business and politics, however productive and principled, is no longer good enough for most Americans. Voters want protection from the corrosive impact of unrestricted   and unrestricted immigration that are favored by the alliance of progressives and executives. In interviews, some [Koch]insiders traced the network’s decline  —   or at least its decline in growth  —   to its decision to sit out the presidential race, at first out of disagreement over whether to play in the crowded GOP primary, and then out of distaste for Trump  …     Asked about his comments at the staff meeting, [Mark Holden] acknowledged that “we’ve had very little success moving the needle at the federal level. It’s always difficult. ” But, he added “we have had a lot of success at the state level and we hope that we will continue to do so. ” And the Koch network announced its   $889 million spending goal at a January 2015 gathering of its donors. It invited a handful of likely Republican presidential candidates  —   a group that did not include Trump, who was then considered a political sideshow  —   whose politics were deemed compatible with the Kochs. Not only was the network preparing to play a major role in the presidential general election, but it was openly toying with the prospect of wading into a GOP presidential primary for the first time ever. All that careful planning was upended, though, when Trump unexpectedly surged to the front of the field. The Koch network couldn’t agree on a consensus alternative candidate to back. And, while sources say Charles Koch and his top lieutenants debated proposals to spend tens of millions of dollars to try to stop Trump, they ultimately decided against it. The Politico article does not describe any efforts by the Koch brothers to sketch a compromise deal with the populist movement  —   for example, less   immigration and tighter trade rules packaged with less business regulation and lower taxes  —   even though populist Americans are far more sympathetic to   business leaders than are progressive groups or immigrant communities. Read it all here.  