“Your Top 5 favorite sandwiches, in order, please. Go. ” This is a game I play in the car with my children, as if we were characters in a Nick Hornby novel. It’s a diversion to make long travel more bearable. We play it all the time. The children rush to judgment, and as is true for most of us, their answers change along with their tastes. But of late: grilled cheese on white, with tomato soup the B. L. T. from a store in Maine near their uncle’s house, on thick country bread ham and Brie with mustard on baguette a meatball sub from a local deli and  —   does a hamburger count? (It does not.) Dad’s turn. I count in reverse order: that B. L. T. yes, perhaps with avocado turkey with Swiss, coleslaw and Russian dressing on a kaiser roll peanut butter and gochujang (the Korean   paste) on sesame toast a Reuben, on rye of course, with pastrami, Swiss, sauerkraut, more of that Russian. I know a guy who makes those as if he were building violins for Pinchas Zukerman. I pause before the No. 1 slot, as if reflecting I enjoy giving this answer. My most favorite sandwich is fried eggplant, mozzarella and roast beef on an Italian hero, with hot peppers and a slash of mayonnaise. You can find that sandwich at Defonte’s Sandwich Shop, on Columbia Street in Brooklyn, near the exit to the Hugh Carey Tunnel that leads from Red Hook to the Battery in Manhattan. It is a beautiful torpedo of food  —   crunchy, silken, sweet and spicy all at once. But be careful. It is huge and outrageously rich. If you consume it all at once, it can be the sort of sandwich to lay out the afternoon in stages of grief. Often I omit the roast beef from my order and tell myself I’ll eat only half. I always eat the whole thing and hate myself through my untouched dinner later in the day. Recently, in a fit of ambition, I set out to make the thing at home,   both the fried eggplant and the ratio of the ingredients to make it a   sandwich, the sort of meal that offers satisfaction without hurting anyone, that delivers deliciousness at a lower cost to the body that consumes it. It is still a colossal feed. It is still the best sandwich. To start, fry the eggplant. You can do this up to a day or two ahead of time. I use small Italian eggplants, eight to 10 inches in length, with dark, shiny skins, firm to the touch. You can leave the skins on, or you can peel them, as do some masters of the   game, including the Franks Castronovo and Falcinelli, of the Frankies Spuntinos restaurants in Brooklyn and Manhattan. Then I cut the eggplants into thin planks and salt them awhile, not so much because they’re bitter but because the salt draws moisture from the flesh, collapsing its cell structure and reducing the amount of oil the eggplant picks up when it cooks. Blot them well with paper towels to remove the liquid and the excess salt, and you will be good to go. The frying is serial: A first run through hot olive oil cooks the eggplant and lightly browns it a second, after the cooked eggplant has been dipped in a wash of egg and Parmesan cheese, gives it a slightly puffed crust, browned in spots, salty and oily in the best possible way. (Some old recipes for   fried eggplant call for a dip in bread crumbs following the egg, but I think this is overkill.) Let the   eggplant drain a little, and the planks will keep, lightly covered, for a few hours on the countertop or for a few days in the fridge. They’re best at room temperature. The rest of the sandwich is shopping: Italian hero rolls, or loaves of Italian bread, as well as fresh   mozzarella (though I’ve had good results even with the   stuff from the supermarket just be sure to allow it to come to room temperature before assembling your meal). And while you can certainly make the roast beef yourself, let’s not overcomplicate things you’ve already fried eggplant. (Vegetarians can avoid the roast beef.) Lastly, you’ll need pickled Italian hot cherry peppers, which you can slice into rounds and apply as desired. The mayonnaise is my preference. I know some people hate it. In sandwich making, form always follows function. So wherever you come down on the question of mayonnaise, follow your decision with a small stack of fried eggplant on the sandwich’s bottom, followed by another of sliced mozzarella and another of roast beef, then top the whole with the cherry peppers. The eggplant protects the bottom of the sandwich from the moisture of the cheese, while the top absorbs the acidity and fire of the peppers. Fold the mass together, and you’ve got the best sandwich there is. For today, at least. Recipe: The Best   Sandwich