Tom Coughlin resigned as head coach of the New York Giants Monday after 12 seasons at the helm. [Coughlin released a statement through the Giants:  I met with John Mara and Steve Tisch this afternoon, and I informed them that it is in the best interest of the organization that I step down as head coach. I strongly believe the time is right for me and my family, and as I said, the Giants organization. It has been an honor and a privilege to serve as head coach of the New York Football Giants. This is a not a sad occasion for me. I have spent 15 years with this organization as an assistant and head coach and was fortunate to be part of three Super Bowl winning teams. A Lombardi Trophy every five years is an achievement in which we all take great pride. Obviously, the past three years have not been what any of us expect, and as head coach, I accept the responsibility for those seasons. I think it has been evident these last 12 years here how much pride I take in representing this franchise. I am gratified and proud that we were able to deliver two more Lombardi trophies to the display case in our lobby during that time. That is a tribute to our players and staff, and it was truly fulfilling to be the leader of those teams. I appreciate the support of John and his family and Steve and his family, and of Jerry Reese and his staff. I think our organization is a great representation of what I mean when I talk about ‘team.’ Finally, I would be remiss if I did not thank my wife Judy and our four children and their spouses and our 11 (soon to be 12) grandchildren. None of this would have been possible without their unconditional love and support. Although the Giants fielded a potent offense in 2015, the team struggled to a   record, good for third in a weak NFC East. This season marked the fourth in a row that the Giants failed to make the playoffs. Coughlin led the Giants to two Super Bowl victories and retires as one of the more successful coaches in this history of an organization whose coaching tree includes Bill Belichick, Tom Landry, and Vince Lombardi, and whose head coaches include Bill Parcells, Steve Owen, and Jim Lee Howell. New York likely represents the last stop in the   ’s head coaching career. After coaching Boston College to a winning record, he led the Jacksonville Jaguars to the best years in franchise history, which included four of the team’s five playoff wins, and a   record coaching the Giants.