A   restaurant located west of Houston, Texas, has renamed its store as “Trump Café” to support Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump. [Formerly known as the “Bellville Café,” the diner’s owner Eddie Hawa changed the name to “Trump Café” to show his support for the man he hopes will be the next President of the United States. Hawa told KPRC Click2Houston. com he had been planning changes for quite some time.  In addition to the new name, the formerly “French country style” cuisine has also been swapped out for an   lineup. The Trump Café’s menu now features a Trump Sandwich along with steaks and burgers. The name change was made after a unanimous vote of the staff, manager Jam Jamus told the Houston NBC affiliate. Hawa said that no matter what happens next Tuesday, Election Day, the name is here to stay. “He loves America and we hope he will be president,” Hawa’s wife, Su told the Houston Chronicle. Although it’s only been a day, Hawa said people are enthusiastic about the change. “People like the name, they’re supporting him. ” Hawa’s Trump Café is not the only Texas restaurant making a political statement. Breitbart Texas reported on October 16 about Shrimp Boat Manny’s Cajun Seafood Restaurant in Livingston, Texas (northeast of Houston) where   signs adorn the business’ fences. Owners Manny and Nancy Rachal told Breitbart Texas, “As Christians and as small business owners, we are hoping and praying for Trump. ” “We see Mr. Trump running the federal government as the business that it is,” the Rachal’s continued. He will lower taxes, getting the economic engines rolling again and creating opportunity for businesses to grow. We agree with his announcement last summer, when he said ‘I have a gift for creating jobs.’ This would reduce unemployment, putting more money into hands. ” People often say you should not mix business and politics. It appears that at least two Texas restaurateurs are taking a different path and are boldly expressing their political positions. Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas. He is a founding member of the Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX.