  Texas pastor Jordan Brown, who is currently suing Whole Foods over a cake he claims was decorated with a gay slur, is facing a lawsuit after failing to pay thousands in student loan debt. [Travis County court documents reveal Brown is being sued for defaulting on more than $26, 000 in student loans.  KXAN’s Erin Cargile says a KXAN reporter visited the address listed on Brown’s student loan lawsuit. That address is the AMLI apartment complex, which is also the address Brown lists as his church address. “The page says the Church of Open Doors meets in the AMLI social hub,” Cargile wrote. “A manager at the complex told KXAN Brown’s church does not meet there. ” Jordan Brown, as Breitbart News reported Wednesday, claimed on April 18 that an Austin, Texas Whole Foods employee drew the word “fag” on a cake the pastor ordered, on which he wanted to include the phrase “love wins. ” Whole Foods, in response, is suing Brown for defamation. “After a deeper investigation of Mr. [Jordan] Brown’s claim, we believe his accusations are fraudulent and we intend to take legal action against both Mr. Brown and his attorney,” a Whole Foods statement read. “It’s more than just a cake,” Brown said in response to the controversy. “As a    openly gay pastor, I have had to face years of discrimination and judgment for something that I had no control over. ” A surveillance video released Tuesday by Whole Foods Shows Brown purchasing the cake.  “After reviewing their security footage of Mr. Brown, it’s clear that the UPC label was in fact on top of the cake box, not on the side of the package,” Whole Foods said in a statement. “This is evident as the cashier scans the UPC code on top of the box. ” “We stand behind our bakery team member, who is part of the LGBTQ community, and we appreciate the team members and shoppers who recognize that this claim is completely false and directly contradicts Whole Foods Market’s inclusive culture, which celebrates diversity,” the Whole Foods statement said. Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson