Newt Gingrich, the former Speaker of the House, defended House Speaker Paul Ryan after the establishment leader attempted —  but failed —  to sabotage the GOP presidential nominee Donald J. Trump again this past weekend. [In an appearance on Fox Business on Thursday, Gingrich attacked Trump for calling out Ryan’s failed attacks on him over the past several days.  “Look, first of all, let me just say about Trump, who I admire and I’ve tried to help as much as I can. There’s a big Trump and a little Trump,” Gingrich said. “The little Trump is frankly pathetic. I mean, he’s mad over not getting a phone call?” Fox Business anchor Maria Bartiromo cut across Gingrich and noted —  correctly —  that Ryan is not giving Trump support “with 27 days left” until the election. Ryan, after tapes of Trump making lewd comments about women leaked over last weekend before the debate on Sunday night where Trump rebounded again, aimed to undermine Trump once again. Ryan did not congratulate Trump on winning the debate, and has signaled to Republicans in Congress his intention to abandon the GOP presidential nominee right before the election. He did, however, fall in line behind the Trump campaign’s message on Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Rodham Clinton’s campaign staff’s attacks against Catholic voters as evidenced by WikiLeaks emails from Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta. Nonetheless, with the exception of that moment, Ryan has been systematically targeting Trump —  and ignoring Clinton entirely —  on the campaign trail. Gingrich, however, wants Trump to ignore the fact that the entire political establishment —  including the mainstream media and even elements of the Republican establishment in Washington, D. C. —  have been trying to sabotage his campaign. He wants Trump to focus exclusively on Hillary Clinton, rather than expose the entire system that has bred this political class that’s trying to take him down. “Donald Trump has one opponent. Her name is Hillary Clinton. Her name is not Paul Ryan. It’s not anybody else,” Gingrich added in his Fox Business appearance. Dustin Stockton is a political reporter for Breitbart News, a community liaison for Gun Owners of America, and a political strategist. Follow him on Twitter @DustinStockton or  Facebook.