  action movie star Matt Damon doubled down on his gun comments from last week by suggesting Americans may be too “sensitive” to understand the need for gun control. [Damon made the comments while attending the British premiere of his latest shoot ’em up, Jason Bourne. He was responding to questions about the backlash he faced for gun control comments he made in Australia.  Breitbart News reported that Damon used the Australia premiere of Jason Bourne to lament the absence of an   gun ban in the U. S.  When asked about these comments on Tuesday, Damon tried to defend them by expressing his belief that Americans may be too “sensitive” to realize the need for gun control. Damon told the Associated Press: What was interesting is all I said was it’s such a personal issue for people —  that people are so sensitive about it —  that we can’t even talk about it. It’s like, so that was really the point I was trying to make and it’s illustrated by the reactions to it. It’s like you can’t even talk about not being able to talk about it. Damon continued: “It would be great if we could figure out a way to not infringe on anyone’s Second Amendment rights but keep guns out of the hands of people like Adam Lanza, who should not be toting an  . ” Damon apparently does not realize that Lanza, the Sandy Hook Elementary gunman, stole his guns. He did not buy them at a gun store, a gun show, a truck stop or a darkened alley  —   he stole them. Also, Lanza’s gun  —   which, again, was stolen, not purchased  —   was not an   though many on the left routinely use the term when trying to find another word for “assault rifle. ” Speaking to another reporter, Damon stayed on the Sandy Hook theme, expressing his belief that Americans may never come around on gun control if Sandy Hook did not convince them of the need to do so.   AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.    