The Democratic nominee for president rallied with supporters and reached out to her GOP rival Donald J. Trump’s voters Friday at Cuyahoga Community College, just outside of Cleveland. [“I want to say something to people, who may be reconsidering their support for my opponent,” said Hillary R. Clinton, who wore a dark green pant suit as she walked around a   stage carrying a wireless microphone and referring from    to printed notes at the podium.  “I know you may still have questions for me,” she said. “I respect that. I want to answer them. I want to earn your vote. I am reaching out to all Americans, Democrats, Republicans, and Independents. I think America needs every single one of us to bring our energy, our talents, our ambition to build that better country. ” The   senator from New York told her supporters that they need to find their friends and   who are still supporting Trump and ask them to vote for her. ” I want you to tell them that I want to be your president. I want to be every single American’s president. ” Americans can disagree without being disagreeable, she said. “I know that. I have seen that happen. I want to be a good listener. ” Ohio is full of people who are frustrated and angry, she said. “But, anger is not a plan. ” Clinton said there were only 18 days left in the campaign and she is asking Americans to think seriously about what they really want. “Not just in your next president, but in your lives, in your jobs, your education, in our future together. The former first lady was in great humor throughout the rally, pointing out signs in the crowd and making light of herself and her opponent. At one point, she asked if anyone had seen Wednesday night’s presidential debate. As the crowd roared with approval, she looked out and milked the applause like an accomplished performer. Then, as the cheers died down she said it was the last time she would ever have to debate Trump. The crowd roared up again, and then she told them that after     hours on the same stage as Trump, “I proved I have the stamina to be president. ” #boom. Ohio has been a strong state for Trump one poll taken after Columbus Day showed the New York City billionaire with 50 percent of the electorate against Clinton’s 39 percent. But other polls show a much closer race. No Republican has won the White House without Ohio. In fact, there have been eight presidents from Ohio, all Republicans. In the 2012 presidential campaign, President Barack Obama beat his Republican opponent W. Mitt Romney with 51 percent of the vote to Romney’s 48 percent. Those results were nearly identical to the national popular vote that had the president garner 51 percent of the vote to 47 percent for the former Massachusetts governor.