The surprising departure of Jed Bernstein last month after just 27 months as president of Lincoln Center was prompted not by a change in career plans, as announced, but by the discovery that he had been in a relationship with a staff member, the organization acknowledged on Tuesday. The center, the world’s leading performing arts complex, had presented the resignation as a sudden but understandable decision by a cultural leader who wanted to return to producing shows for the stage, where he had spent much of his career. In reality, Mr. Bernstein, 61, was forced from the top post after an anonymous complaint revealed that he had been involved in a consensual relationship with a woman in her 30s who worked for him  —   and whom he had twice promoted, according to two people briefed on his resignation. They spoke on condition of anonymity because negotiations over his departure were confidential. After repeated requests during the past several weeks to elaborate on Mr. Bernstein’s departure, Lincoln Center on Tuesday provided a statement to The New York Times through the crisis management firm Rubenstein. The statement said that in response to the complaint, received in March, Lincoln Center “immediately retained independent outside counsel to conduct an investigation” and “determined that Mr. Bernstein had violated Lincoln Center human resources policy by not disclosing a personal relationship with an employee. ” Mr. Bernstein, as president, had been positioned to lead Lincoln Center into a new era of prominence, led by a   effort to turn the New York Philharmonic’s acoustically challenged home into a   symphonic hall. But even with $100 million from David Geffen, the job of raising an additional $400 million to cover the projected cost has become more difficult with the departure of such a key figure. Lincoln Center’s operations are now being directed by Katherine G. Farley, the chairwoman, who said in a statement at the time of Mr. Bernstein’s resignation that “Lincoln Center is in a very strong position artistically, operationally and financially. ” Mr. Bernstein did not respond to calls and messages over the past several weeks. On Tuesday, he said in an email sent by his publicist, Cristyne L. Nicholas: “I take full responsibility for my actions and have cooperated fully with Lincoln Center. I remain proud of the incredible group of colleagues with whom I have worked at Lincoln Center and the accomplishments that we were able to achieve together and as I move forward to my next chapter, I wish them continued success. ” Concerns about Mr. Bernstein first came to the board’s attention in November when he asked to renew his contract, which was to expire in December 2016. In preparation, Lincoln Center  —   which was planning to grant the renewal  —   sought feedback about him from members of the senior staff. While some praised Mr. Bernstein for his energy and enthusiasm, others complained about his management style, namely his telling   jokes and addressing female employees as “Sweetie” and “Honey,” the people briefed on the matter said. Lincoln Center executives asked Mr. Bernstein to work with a coach to correct the behavior, which he began to do, the sources said. The entire staff was also given a refresher workshop in sensitivity training. Lincoln Center, however, did not believe that its president’s conduct constituted sexual harassment, the people knowledgeable about his departure said. Then in March, before the contract was finalized, an anonymous complaint alerted Lincoln Center executives about a sexual relationship between Mr. Bernstein and a female employee whom he had promoted, most recently to a senior position in September. Both Mr. Bernstein and the employee are single. To investigate, Lincoln Center enlisted outside counsel  —   Jeffrey S. Klein, chairman of the employment litigation practice group at Weil, Gotshal  Manges. Although the inquiry determined that the relationship had ended by the time Mr. Bernstein was confronted and that it appeared to be consensual, the sources said, it violated Lincoln Center’s policies about senior management dating subordinates. The organization declined to provided a copy of the policy. Lincoln Center officials confronted Mr. Bernstein, who agreed to resign and was paid a sum of money according to the terms of his contract, which are confidential. As for why Lincoln Center did not originally disclose the true circumstances of Mr. Bernstein’s departure, the sources said the institution wanted to protect the woman involved. The Times is withholding her name to protect her privacy. Lincoln Center was also satisfied that the woman, having been twice promoted under its previous president, Reynold Levy, deserved the latest promotion that she had received from Mr. Bernstein, the sources said. Mr. Bernstein took over from Mr. Levy in January 2014. Mr. Levy, a prodigious   who oversaw the institution’s ambitious $1. 2 billion renovation, served for 11 years. A search for Mr. Bernstein’s successor is underway. Before coming to Lincoln Center, Mr. Bernstein spent more than a decade as president of the Broadway League, the industry’s national trade association. He also produced Broadway shows and helped to   the Bucks County Playhouse in Pennsylvania as a stage for live theater. He landed the Lincoln Center job partly because former Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, a friend of Ms. Farley, had supported him Mr. Bernstein and his brother, Doug, directed the mayor’s performance in the annual Inner Circle show. The organization never received information suggesting that Mr. Bernstein had any history of comparable misconduct, the sources said, and the issue did not surface in his vetting as a candidate. When he was hired, in May 2013, Mr. Bernstein struck many as a surprising choice because he had a marketing background and had never run a nonprofit institution, let alone one with multiple prominent constituents, which in this case include the Metropolitan Opera and the New York City Ballet.