Police in Tennessee say a man walking down the street while watching porn on his cell phone was killed when he didn’t notice a runaway trailer barreling his way. [Witnesses told officers that    Kevin Jordan was carelessly walking down the sidewalk on Park Avenue in Memphis with his attention fixed on pornography playing on his cell phone. Apparently Jordan didn’t look up in time to see that a   trailer had come unhitched from a passing pickup truck and was racing toward him.  Jordan was struck and killed by the runaway trailer. Some, though, felt Jordan’s death was tinged with a dash of irony because the accident victim was a registered sex offender with convictions for rape on his record. “I think it is ironic that he was watching porn. And this dealt with some of the crimes he may have perpetrated. ” local dentist Dr. Peter Trimble told WSMV TV. Jordan was convicted of violent sexual assault and rape in 1994 and was sentenced to 25 years in jail. He was described as the “Highland Street Rapist” in the 1990s when he was apprehended and convicted for rape. Jordan was released on good behavior only a few years ago and is listed on the Tennessee sex offender registry. Despite his good behavior release in 2010, the convicted felon was also recently cited for indecent exposure. But the accident victim’s fiancé said that the death was tragic because he was trying to get his life in order and get over his violent past. Fiancé Connie Harris said Jordan “had his life in order” and insisted that she still loved him even in death. She also claimed that his recent citation of indecent exposure was not a sexual crime. She said he was urinating in an alley when a woman walked by and saw him. The driver of the 2008 Dodge Ram who was hauling the trailer has not been charged with anything yet, but Memphis police say they are still investigating the incident. If Jordan had been required to serve his full prison sentence, he’d still be in jail and would not have been on that sidewalk that fateful night. Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston, or email the author at igcolonel@hotmail. com.