CAIRO  —   Unidentified gunmen sprayed bullets on a police minibus as it passed through a Cairo district early on Sunday, killing eight plainclothes officers in an ambush that was later claimed by the Islamic State. It was the deadliest attack on Egypt’s security forces in the capital in months, and a sharp reminder of the continuing threat from Islamist insurgents while President Abdel Fattah   is under increasing scrutiny for his harsh crackdown on political dissent. Although the Islamic State’s claim of responsibility could not be independently verified, its format and language were consistent with earlier statements from the group. The Islamic State also claims to have downed a Russian passenger jet that crashed into the Sinai Desert in October, killing 224 people. The Egyptian Interior Ministry said in a statement that four assailants had fired on the unmarked police minibus as it passed through Helwan, an industrial center on the southern edge of greater Cairo. The police officers were on routine security duties, the ministry said. Images on social media showed the bloodied bodies of the officers, dressed in shirts and jeans, slumped in and around a white vehicle that was raked with bullet holes. In a statement circulated on social media, the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, said that “soldiers of the caliphate” had carried out the attack in retaliation for the imprisonment of “pure women” in Egyptian jails  —   a common justification for violence by Egyptian militants. The group identified one of the dead officers and said the attackers had taken guns from the police before escaping unhindered. Hours later, Egyptian security officials said they had tracked the assailants to a hilly area on the edge of Helwan, which they said had been sealed off as they conducted a search. Islamist insurgents based in Sinai have been fighting the Egyptian government for years, but the scale and frequency of attacks increased after the military ousted the elected president, Mohamed Morsi of the Muslim Brotherhood, in July 2013. Fighting has been mostly confined to Sinai, where the Egyptian military has a heavy presence and which is mostly sealed off to the news media. But violence has occasionally spilled over into Cairo, usually in gun attacks and small bombings. In November, four police officers at a checkpoint in Cairo were killed in a gun attack that was also claimed by the Islamic State. By lunchtime on Sunday, a funeral was underway for the slain officers, who were honored with   coffins at a service attended by the interior minister, Maj. Gen. Magdi   and a row of   police commanders. Fears over the spread of the Islamic State, which is based in Syria and Iraq but also has a muscular presence in Libya, have helped ensure Western support for Mr. Sisi even as he faces renewed criticism for a harsh,   crackdown on political dissent in Egypt. More than 1, 200 people were arrested last month after public protests over the transfer of two Red Sea islands to Saudi Arabia. Almost 600 of them have been formally charged, according to rights groups. Mr. Sisi’s popularity has also been damaged by public anger at repeated episodes of police brutality, often over trivial matters, that have resulted in the deaths of ordinary citizens. Spontaneous street protests erupted twice in recent months after officers shot and killed people in separate arguments over a taxi fare and a cup of tea. The Interior Ministry, which controls the police, was criticized by Egypt’s only media union after two journalists were arrested during a police raid on the union’s headquarters on May 1. The furor over the arrests, which built steadily during the week, was to be debated in the Egyptian Parliament on Sunday, the state Al Ahram newspaper reported on its website. Most newspapers did not publish blackened front pages on Sunday to protest the arrests, as the union had said they would.