Democratic presidential candidate former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said she was running for people who dream “of a day when deportations end, and families are reunited on a path to citizenship in America” and criticized Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump during a speech in West Palm Beach, FL on Tuesday.  Hillary began by saying she was “moving closer” to securing the Democratic nomination and the presidency, and that she had earned more votes than any other candidate thusfar. She further congratulated fellow Democratic candidate Senator Bernie Sanders ( ) “for the vigorous campaign he’s waging. ” She later stated, “Now look, of course, every candidate makes promises like this, but every candidate owes it to you to be clear and direct about what our plans will cost, and how we’re going to make them work. That’s the difference between running for president, and being president. ” Hillary continued, “We live in a complex and yes, a dangerous world. Protecting America’s national security can never be an afterthought. Our    has to be able to defend our country, not embarrass it, engage our allies, not alienate them, defeat our adversaries, not embolden them. When we hear a candidate for president call for rounding up 12 million immigrants, banning all Muslims from entering the United States, when he embraces torture, that doesn’t make him strong, it makes him wrong. And yes, our next president has to bring our country together, so we can all share in the promise of America, we should be breaking down barriers, not building walls. We’re not going to succeed by dividing this country between us and them. You know, to be great, we can’t be small. We can’t lose what made America great in the first place. And this isn’t just about Donald Trump, all of us have to do our part. ” She concluded, “Our campaign is for  …    the mother I met in Miami, whose five children haven’t seen their father since he was deported. She dreams of a day when deportations end, and families are reunited on a path to citizenship in America. ” Follow Ian Hanchett on Twitter @IanHanchett