An      used a gun in her home to save her husband’s life after a man broke into their home and beat the husband with a crowbar. [When she walked into the kitchen, she saw her husband, bleeding on the floor. He had been stabbed and beaten by the intruder. The injured man looked up at her and said, “I’ve been stabbed. ”  The   Barb Moles, grabbed her . 38 caliber revolver after seeing her husband in distress. As she encountered the   robber, she pulled the trigger four times. Three of the four gunshots found their mark and stopped the attack, KOMO News reported from Sultan, Washington. “I was just intent upon stopping him. I didn’t have any other thought in my head,” the woman, who said she is not your typical granny, told the local reporter. “I just knew I had to stop him. ” After seeing her husband on the floor bleeding, she knew his life was in danger, as was hers and that of her adult son who was also in the house. She retrieved the gun her husband, John Moles, bought her for Christmas a few years back and stopped the burglar in his tracks. She told the reporter she believed if she did not stop the man that she and her son might have been killed and her husband might have bled to death in the kitchen. “You know, never in my whole life did I ever anticipate having to take another life  —   especially at age 80,” the three time   and grandmother of eight said. When she confronted the home invader, Moles told the reporter he said one word, “gun. ” The man was pronounced dead at the scene. The shooting is being investigated by the local sheriff’s office who will refer the information to the prosecuting attorney. The attorney will determine if any charges should be filed. Washington state law not only allows for a person to defend themselves when their life is in danger, it provides for the reimbursement of legal fees and other expenses if they are charged and found not guilty by reason of   according to the Lewis County Sheriff’s Office website. John Moles is being treated in intensive care at a local hospital for a possible concussion. He is expected to survive his injuries. Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas and is a member of the original Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX.  