Breitbart News National Security Editor Dr. Sebastian Gorka, author of the   book Defeating Jihad: The Winnable War, joined Trish Regan on Fox News’ The Intelligence Report to discuss the latest WikiLeaks revelations about the Clinton Foundation. [Asked why Hillary Clinton didn’t shut the controversial Foundation down when she began running for President, Gorka replied, “It’s simply a case of ‘the rules don’t apply to us. Let the peasants obey the rules that apply to everybody else. But if you work in the Clinton State Department, if you work for the Clinton Foundation, you’re above all of that. ’”  “The government email is clunky!” he imagined Clinton complaining about the system she was supposed to be using. “So who cares if we’re talking about sensitive issues? This isn’t about the national security of America. It’s not about the State Department. It’s about the Clinton corporation. What we have here is, in effect, political corruption at an institutional level. ” Regan asked how Hillary Clinton’s apparent inability to recognize that her email server was a problem reflected on her “ability to lead our country. ” “Look, you’re always going to have  —   powerful people to a certain extent always have a certain bubble around them, a lot of yes men, a lot of yes women. But this is beyond that,” Gorka replied.  “Let’s just look at one issue. Clinton Cash has given us scores of issues. Let’s look at one issue: Uranium is a strategic national asset. Why? Because you make nuclear bombs out of it. When she was Secretary of State, we now know she had sign off on the sale of twenty percent of our uranium as a nation, to Russian companies that were linked directly to the Kremlin. She signs off on that. That’s her husband, through the Foundation, is getting $140 million from the same companies. This is money laundering in the political world. This is    at the hundreds of millions of dollars level,” he said. As for why the mainstream media’s coverage of such a remarkable scandal has been so limited, Gorka humorously suggested that “every time they dump 30, 000 emails, you have to work. There are some journalists that don’t want to work too hard. ” “I think it’s a bit more than lazy journalists,” he added more seriously. “It is about the Establishment. Except for places like Fox and Breitbart, these people are rooting  —   look at the donations from media to Hillary. Ninety percent of journalists donating to a political campaign donate to the DNC. ” 