Andy McCarthy, a senior fellow at National Review and former Assistant U. S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York, joined SiriusXM host Stephen K. Bannon on Monday’s Breitbart News Daily to talk about the pending sentencing reform bill.  McCarthy worried that bad legislation will slip through Congress while public attention was focused on the “soap opera” of the presidential primaries. “We have a President who has no more elections to worry about, and who is into doing all kinds of mischief,” he said.  “Nothing makes more mischief than lack of attention, and lack of sunlight on it. ” McCarthy warned there is “an awful lot going on that people aren’t going to like, and when they wake up to it, they’re going to be very unhappy. ” McCarthy agreed with Bannon’s suggestion that our political and media elites have no idea how much ordinary Americans suffer from crime, ranging from drug offenses and violent assault to wanton violation of U. S. immigration law. “I think they’re really removed from it, because they really don’t live among the problems that get created,” said McCarthy. He added that it was also a “big problem” that American politics have been reshaped by young people who don’t remember the excesses of liberalism, and certainly haven’t been taught about the bad old days by the leftist educational or media establishments. “I, for example, grew up in   Bronx,” he said.  “Remember, we had the World Series where the Bronx was burning down.  People of a certain age  —   even people who are, say, in their thirties today  —   have no idea what New York city was like before, say, 1989 or so.  And they’ve grown up in cities that, because of the crackdown on crime that was carried out, really, from the early Eighties going forward.  They live in a different America than people who grew up in the Fifties, Sixties, and early Seventies remember.  And they think it was always this way. ” “It doesn’t seem to them like it’s such a big deal.  What’s the problem?  You let some people out of jail,” said McCarthy.  “You should have grown up in America when it was   America, and where we had the radical groups of the Sixties.  It was a different place.  And I hate the thought that we’re going back to it.  It’s just  . ”  Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00AM to 9:00AM EST. LISTEN:  