Welcome to Breitbart News’s live updates of the aftermath of the Orlando terror attack and the 2016 election.  All times eastern.  —   10:10 PM: U. S. men’s national soccer team captain Michael Bradley honors Orlando victims with rainbow armband: Michael Bradley wearing a   captain’s armband in remembrance of the Orlando victims. pic. twitter.   —   Bryan Armen Graham (@BryanAGraham) June 17, 2016,  9:50 PM: New York Times’s Charles Blow says the Orlando Terrorist was “our monster. ” But the terrorist referred to Afghanistan as “his country” even though he was born in New York. 9:30 PM: Looks like Sanders will soon be attacking Trump more: ”I personally intend to begin my role in that process in a very short period of time”   on battling Trump. pic. twitter.   —   Danny Freeman (@DannyEFreeman) June 17, 2016,  9:15 PM:   agitators wave Mexican flags outside Trump’s Dallas rally: #BernieOrBust #StillSanders #Dallas #Texas #Trump #Rally #TrumpRally #UnidosConBernie pic. twitter.   —   ~ SideEye ~ (@antisocialista) June 17, 2016,  9:11 PM: Gun sales surging among   after Orlando terror attack. 9:00 PM: Trump now talks about needing to straighten out trade deals. [Trump needs to definitely state that this campaign is about putting Americans —  and their interests —  first in domestic and foreign affairs and then go off the cuff. Otherwise, it sounds like a candidate winging it on the stump and just picking random bits of news out of a hat.] 8:57 PM: Trump says “Mr. Protester” just gave him a great idea. Trump says he should make “Make America Great Again” cowboy hats. 8:53 PM: Sanders still doesn’t   Clinton: WATCH: In speech to supporters, Sanders doesn’t suspend campaign, but vows to work with Clinton to defeat Trump. https:  .   —   ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) June 17, 2016,  8:44 PM: Trump boring the audience again by talking about process and giving    of his primary elections. 8:35 PM: Trump says he is thinking of having a “winner’s night” at the convention. He says instead of politicians, “winners” like Bobby Knight will be speaking. 8:32 PM: Trump: We have to “stop people with hate in their hearts” from entering the United States. 8:30 PM: Trump talks about riding that horse. Trump: I’ve heard about this place for a long time. Where is that horse? (It is a Bull, btw) #TrumpDallas,  —   Tasha Stevens (@tstevensradio) June 17, 2016,  8:28 PM: Trump says we need to have people come into our country who want to be here. He says we’re allowing thousands and thousands of people to come into our country from “countries that are terrorist countries. ” 8:21 PM: Trump says he just watched Obama’s speech and he’s largely “blaming guns. ” Trump vows to “save your Second Amendment. ” He reminds Texans that “Hillary wants to abolish the Second Amendment. Just remember that. ” Trump says Sanders doesn’t give up and adds, slamming Romney, that we could have used someone four years ago who didn’t give up. He says our leaders are giving up on our borders and combating ISIS. 8:17 PM: In Dallas, Texas, Trump thanks his supporters for turning out in force. He wants to “hug” and “kiss” his supporters outside. He notes that this is the one year anniversary of his campaign. He says he is looking forward to debating “crooked Hillary” assuming that she is still allowed to run. 8:11 PM: Miller says this election is about the idea that a country exists to serve and protect its own people and not Clinton’s special interests. Miller says Trump’s only special interest is the American people and he can’t be bought and owned like Hillary Clinton. Miller says if something is good for Americans, Trump will do it and “never apologize. ” 8:05 PM: In Dallas, Trump’s senior policy adviser Stephen Miller says all of the people who are mad at Trump are livid because he threatens their ability to run the country for their benefit. He says Trump represents “our one chance” to break up the special interests. He says that, ultimately, is what this election comes down to. Miller talks about  how Texas have seen how open borders have done to wages and have led to heartbreak and needless destruction. Miller says everyone wanting to stop Donald Trump wants the borders to remain open. He says Trump is running for president so he can finally put the American people first. Miller says Trump is building the wall out of love for Americans of all backgrounds. Miller mentions that the special interests and the politicians who have sold you out and betrayed you would not go away without scratching and clawing. 7:59 PM: He also made strong comments about assimilation and blasted Obama for giving amnesty to illegal immigrants and putting them in front of those trying to be legal immigrants. Tarrant County Commissioner Andy Nguyen at Trump Dallas rally: ”In war, we need a wartime leader. .”  —   Jacob Kornbluh (@jacobkornbluh) June 16, 2016,  7:35 PM: Pastor Jeffress doing invocation at Trump rally: Dallas pastor Robert Jeffress, a big Trump booster on cable TV, is doing the invocation at Trump’s rally in Dallas. #TrumpInTX,  —   Patrick Svitek (@PatrickSvitek) June 16, 2016,  7:30 PM: Trump supporter made own “Make America Great Again” hat: Oscar said he made his own ”Make America Great Again” hat in September before Trump’s first rally here in Dallas pic. twitter.   —   Ashley Killough (@KilloughCNN) June 16, 2016,  6:35 PM: Dallas Police Department on alert: These are the latest pictures from outside the rally. #ProtectingDallas pic. twitter.   —   Dallas Police Depart (@DallasPD) June 16, 2016,  6:33 PM:   agitators reportedly will bus in protesters to Trump’s Dallas event: Just spoke with Domingo Garcia, he says buses of protesters are being delayed by traffic. Hoping for arrival by 6pm @CBSDFW,  —   Jeff Paul (@Jeff_Journalist) June 16, 2016,  Protester crowds have increased within the last 15 minutes. A bus of protesters is expected now around 6pm @CBSDFW pic. twitter.   —   Jeff Paul (@Jeff_Journalist) June 16, 2016,  Trump protester is cleansing folks with burning ”sage” to ride them of negative energy @CBSDFW pic. twitter.   —   Jeff Paul (@Jeff_Journalist) June 16, 2016,  6:25 PM: Trump supporters armed and ready: Trump supporters armed  ready 4 protesters say they will only jump in if clashes   supporters   San Jose pic. twitter.   —   John Santucci (@JTSantucci) June 16, 2016,  Volunteers with https:  .  are here for #TrumpInDallas. They say they’re ready to step in if things get out of hand for police,  —   Cory Smith (@CorySmithNBC5) June 16, 2016,  6:20 PM: Protesters at Trump’s event. First protester I came across near tonight’s Dallas Donald J Trump event pic. twitter.   —   Lee Stranahan (@stranahan) June 16, 2016,  protesters outside The Highland ahead of #TrumpDallas arrival  —   shouts of ”dump trump” @wfaachannel8 pic. twitter.   —   David Goins (@dgoins) June 16, 2016,  A few protesters from earlier outside of the Trump event in Dallas. pic. twitter.   —   Ashley Killough (@KilloughCNN) June 16, 2016,  6:15 PM: Enthusiastic Trump supporters in line early despite extreme temperatures: Trump supporters lined up in 100 degree weather for his 7pm event in Dallas, and many are collapsing from the heat,  —   Holly Bailey (@hollybdc) June 16, 2016,  5:44 PM: Julian Castro, auditioning to be Clinton’s Vice President, slams Trump for his “hateful rhetoric. ” . @HillaryClinton’s campaign taps @JulianCastro to respond to Trump’s trip to Texas today and tomorrow: pic. twitter.   —   Patrick Svitek (@PatrickSvitek) June 16, 2016,  5:29 PM: Orlando terrorist had plenty of disciplinary problems: Mateen disciplined 31 times between 1992  —   1999 for disrespectful  violent behavior, according elementary and middle school record @nypost,  —   Charles V Payne (@cvpayne) June 16, 2016,  5:27 PM: Union Boss Trumka seems like he’s worried union workers may be receptive to Trump’s message: . @realDonaldTrump isn’t happy   our endorsement but didn’t seem worried a year ago when he refused to answer workers’ questions.  —   Richard L. Trumka (@RichardTrumka) June 16, 2016,    5:25 PM: Dallas Police practicing riot control ahead of Trump’s visit: RNC Chair Priebus flying with Trump to Texas: Flying to Dallas now with @realDonaldTrump  …    Reports of discord are pure fiction. Great events lined up all over Texas.  Rs will win in Nov!  —   Reince Priebus (@Reince) June 16, 2016,  5:07 PM: Greg Zanis built a homemade cross for each of the 49 Orlando terror victims: Greg Zanis of Aurora, IL built 49 crosses to honor victims  is setting them up outside of @orlandohealth pic. twitter.   —   Tenikka Smith Hughes (@TenikkaANjax) June 16, 2016,      Each white cross with a heart lists a victim’s name. People are also able to leave messages. Powerful to see. pic. twitter.   —   Tenikka Smith Hughes (@TenikkaANjax) June 16, 2016,  5:02 PM: The mainstream media’s narrative seems to be that Obama is “exhausted” at seeing these terrorist attacks as they help Obama push more gun control. 5:00 PM: Obama says we have to challenge discrimination against gays wherever it occurs and fight the oppression of women [Yet, Obama endorsed Clinton, who accepted millions from nations that oppress  .] 4:57 PM: Obama says more massacres without more gun control: President Obama: “If we don’t act, we will keep seeing more massacres like this because we’ll be choosing to let them happen.”  —   ABC News (@ABC) June 16, 2016,  4:55 PM: Obama says it “defies common sense” when people say   should have been armed. Obama wonders why we think our liberties require these tragedies. Obama hopes Senators who voted against background checks after Newtown change their minds re: “weapons of war. ” He says he hopes the House also “does the right thing” and passes more gun control. 4:53 PM: Obama says we can’t anticipate or catch every deranged person who wishes to do harm but “we can do something about the amount of damage they do. ” He says our politics have conspired to make it as easy as possible for a terrorist or a disturbed individual to “buy extraordinarily powerful weapons. And they can do so legally. ” Obama says “today, once again  …    . I held and hug grieving family members” and they pleaded to help stop the carnage. “This debate needs to change,” Obama says. 4:51 PM: Obama refers to Orlando attack as “terrorist attack. ” He says Orlando and San Bernardino attacks were carried out by “homegrown” terrorists. He says have to do more to prevent these kinds of attacks from happening again. Obama says the Orlando terrorist was a “lone wolf” and a “single killer with a powerful attack weapon. ” He says the motive of the Orlando terrorist may have been different from the   killers but the “instruments” were similar. 4:50 PM: Obama says we “will continue to be relentless against terrorist groups like ISIL and Al Qaeda. ” Obama says we will “destroy them” and “disrupt their networks” and propaganda that poisons so many minds across the world. 4:48 PM: Obama says we, as a nation, have been inspired by the courage of those who risked their lives to save lives during the terror attack. Obama says we owe a debt of gratitude to the doctors, nurses and first responders. 4:46 PM: Obama, in Orlando, says the community was shaken by an “evil, hateful act. ” Obama says we are reminded today by what is good. Cites empathy, decency and love. Obama says he and Vice President Biden met with many of the families of the victims. Obama says these families could be our families and they, in fact, are “our families. ” 4:45: PM: Salon’s hot take: Don’t rush to judge terrorist’s wife. 4:30 PM: Sen. Ron Johnson ( ) who is asking Facebook to help Senators investigate the Orlando terrorist’s Facebook accounts, says he wants to find some of the Orlando terrorists posts before the attack and compare them to what happened before other terrorist incidents like San Bernardino and Fort Hood.     4:05 PM: CNN is reporting that the Orlando terrorist was communicating with his wife during his attack. The wife reportedly texted “I love you” to the Orlando terrorist. 3:59 PM: McCain: “I misspoke. ” McCAIN: ’I misspoke’ pic. twitter.   —   Mike DeBonis (@mikedebonis) June 16, 2016,    Here are @SenJohnMcCain’s original comments saying Pres Obama is ”directly responsible” for Orlando attack: pic. twitter.   —   Frank Thorp V (@frankthorp) June 16, 2016,  3:45 PM: Sen. John McCain ( ) clarifies his remarks about how he believed Obama was “directly responsible” for the terror attacks. [Imagine the outrage and “distancing” from establishment Republicans had Donald Trump made those remarks.] To clarify, I was referring to Pres Obama’s national security decisions that have led to rise of #ISIL, not to the President himself,  —   John McCain (@SenJohnMcCain) June 16, 2016,    3:42 PM: President Obama and Vice President Biden are meeting with survivors in Orlando: Happening now: Obama, Biden lay wreaths at makeshift memorial in downtown Orlando pic. twitter.   —   Josh Lederman (@joshledermanAP) June 16, 2016,  People waiting to see @POTUS in downtown #Orlando pic. twitter.   —   Kayla O’Brien (@kaylaobrientv) June 16, 2016,  POTUS motorcade took over I4 Westbound on its way to OIA pic. twitter.   —   Ryan Gillespie (@byRyanGillespie) June 16, 2016, 