Wednesday on Fox News Channel’s “On the Reccord,” host Greta Van Susteren used her “Off the Record” commentary segment to weigh in Republican presidential   Donald Trump’s campaign manager Corey Lewandowski being charged with misdemeanor battery in an incident involving former Breitbart News reporter Michelle Fields at a Jupiter, FL, campaign event on March 6 and the subsequent reaction from 16 conservative media figures calling for Lewandowski to be fired by Trump.  Conservative female journalists’ open letter to Trump: Tell Lewandowski ‘You’re fired!’ https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Dylan Stableford (@stableford) March 31, 2016,  Van Susteren argued the incident should have ended with an apology and have never gotten to this point. She also said the call for Lewandowski to be fired brings into question these media figures abilities to cover the race impartially. Transcript as follows: Let’s all go   . This has gotten way out of hand. A media scrum around a presidential candidate Donald Trump with routine pushing, and shoving ended with an allegation of a crime. That’s a crime. Now, whatever happened in the scrum, and I don’t think the video or eyewitness statement is convincing, this incident never should have ended up as a crime. It should have ended with an apology. I’m talking about grab gate or pinch gate, whatever you want to call it. Reporter Michelle Fields and the scrum around Donald Trump trying to get a sound bite from him was grabbed, pinched, resulting in bruising. She said Trump’s Campaign Manager Corey Lewandowski did it intentionally. Yes, of course, grabbing someone accidently or even intentionally is not so nice. But is this one a crime? Plus, don’t forget court docket are already so overcrowded and now it has been blown up even more, 16 women in the media, some reporters, some analysts, signing a letter calling on Trump to fire Lewandowski. Two things. One, Lewandowski hasn’t even had a trial and they’re calling for his head. Yes, they have tried and convicted him. And second, each of these women has now shot herself in the foot. How can any one of them continue to cover the presidential race by not waiting for the DA’s decision to trial the case or not, or wait for a jury verdict? But instead, coming out swinging, taking sides in such a public way? It may be a hard sell for each of these women now covering this election to say she is fair. And that’s my    comment tonight. Follow Jeff Poor on Twitter @jeff_poor