Here are the top 10 comments of the week on our digital platforms, as selected by our readers and the journalists who moderate nearly every comment. 1. As an   female, I understand the plight for equality. However, I am severely offended by the continual comparison of a sexual preference, a gender preference, to the plight of an enslaved, raped, lynched, brutalized, oppressed people. Dare anyone compare choice of bathroom to the plight of blacks for the past 400 years? Isn’t that a bit ridiculous? First of all, it’s insulting to every black person in America. As blacks we were born as we are. No choice involved. Transgenders have to make a conscious choice to become a transgender. There is no comparison. People say that Christians force their beliefs on others. Well, people who take these actions and measures are forcing their beliefs on those who don’t agree. There is nothing wrong with a person who prefers to use the bathroom with people of the same gender by birth. Stop making it seem like it is. That’s judgmental and degrading.  —   Loves’ Redemption in Washington, reacting to an article about the Obama administration telling public schools to allow transgender students to use the restroom that corresponds to their gender identities. 2. It’s past time to admit that when it comes to upholding federal law, and even civil rights, many states have pretty much just flipped off the U. S. government, many federal rulings, and even the U. S. Constitution. It’s now necessary for the U. S. government to bring the hammer down and start insisting that civil rights rulings are not optional, nor are they open to debate, overruling, or corruption by any state. Either we are a nation with universal civil rights that are enforceable or we are not. It’s time to make them stick.  —   GWBear in Florida. This comment received over 200 reader recommendations.  3. As I listen to Mr. Sanders speak tonight  —   completely caught up in his own hubris  —   I am fascinated and repulsed by his angry entitlement to the Democratic nomination. As he was shouting about momentum and that he is the best candidate  —   despite the fact that three million more voters preferred Mrs. Clinton  —   I feel increasingly concerned that he is a huge liability to the party he adopted for his own convenience.  —   Dana in Santa Monica, Calif. reacting to an article about Senator Bernie Sanders’s victory in the West Virginia primary. This comment received over 1, 090 reader recommendations and 127 reader responses. 4. I am absolutely astounded at the way these analyses ignore the obvious: The Trump phenomenon is the backlash against our first black president. Come on! You go back decades dissecting American conservatism, and you somehow manage not to mention that Donald Trump headed the “Birther” movement, which gave racists the okay to assert that Barack Obama was not a real American  —   explicitly because he was alleged (falsely) to have been born in Africa? HELLO? Are we ever going to be allowed to discuss this elephant in the living room? Are we supposed to pretend FOREVER that the origins of this outburst of hatred are totally mysterious?  —   DW in Philadelphia, reacting to an article about the Republican Party’s failure to unite behind its presumptive nominee, Donald J. Trump. This comment received over 1, 680 reader recommendations and 33 reader responses.  5. Keep writing away. It doesn’t matter what you say, I am still going to vote for him. The more I read against him, the more I want to vote for him.  —   Chris in Louisville, Ky. reacting to a post about Mr. Trump refusing to release his tax returns. 6. How many of us believe that the Olympics and every other competition actually award medals for achievement, rather than for who cheats most successfully? Of course, athletes also train. For strength and skill and endurance. But who does it without drugs? It’s not just the cheating that bothers me, but the effect on young people who do it. The effect of that lifelong secrecy. The effect of knowing that their medal was gained by cheating. It’s very discouraging.  —   TheraP in the Midwest, reacting to an article about the former chief of Russia’s antidoping lab detailing a   doping effort  in the 2014 Olympics in Sochi. 7. Great, another special interest group to pander to.  —   MKM in New York, reacting to an article about Hillary Clinton vowing that as president she would unseal the government records about Area 51, reputed to contain classified information about aliens and U. F. O. s. 8. Colonialism was pretty rude too, Your Majesty.  —   Viraj Vaidya on The Times’s Facebook page, responding to an article about Queen Elizabeth II’s criticism of a visiting Chinese delegation, which was caught on a video.  This comment received over 1, 700 likes. 9. I find it so ironic that people do these things to their body in the name of “individuality. ” The inked and pierced masses are the real sheep.  —   Lena in Ontario, Canada, reacting to an article about body modifications like tattoos, piercings and ear gauging becoming de rigueur on fashion runways.  10. Brazil will not change. The problem with our country and economy is not the president herself, but our senators and everyone else who’s been stealing, and ruining our country for their personal gain. I’m sad to say that, even though I don’t support Dilma and never voted for her, what’s coming is much, much worse than her. I fear for the future of my country.  —   Vitória Fernandes on The Times’s Facebook page, responding to an article about impeachment proceedings against Brazil’s president, Dilma Rousseff.