Over 100 people have been killed or maimed at a gay dance club in Orlando by Omar Mateen, a Muslim terrorist. How many more innocent gays need to die before we admit that America, and the world, has an Islam problem? [I don’t mean a “radical Islam” problem or an “extremist Islam problem. ” Violence is not the extreme in Islam any more: it’s the norm. The public’s patience for comments like the one below, from the dimwitted lesbian Sally Kohn, are wearing thin. As for mine, it’s long since run out.  EVERY religion has   of intolerant extremism. You can’t tell me the problem is religion. The problem is intolerant extremism!  —   Sally Kohn (@sallykohn) June 12, 2016,  Obama’s response to the tragedy today was similarly  . He made no mention of Islam or Muslims, instead condemning “hate and terror” and taking a brazen swipe at gun rights activists by noting “how easy it is to let people get their hands on a weapon. ” He didn’t even address the uniquely homophobic character of the attack. What a good liberal! There’s no more room for equivocating. The Orlando shooting isn’t just the deadliest terrorist attack on U. S. shores since  . It is also, by far, the worst act of violent homophobia in the nation’s history and the deadliest mass shooting in America ever. According to the murderer’s father, his son became angry after he saw two men kissing in the street. “This had nothing to do with religion,” said the father, Seddique Mateen. “He saw two men kissing each other in front of his wife and kid and he got very angry”  —   as if that was some kind of excuse. That same father is on record defending the Taliban. Orlando shooting suspect’s father hosted a political TV show and even tried to run for the Afghan presidency https:  .   —   Washington Post (@washingtonpost) June 12, 2016,  What sort of a man gets so angry by displays of affection, joy, and love that he chooses to gun down innocent people in a nightclub? A Muslim man. And if this one isn’t particularly religious, imagine how much worse the faithful must be.  America has to make a choice. Does it want gay rights, women’s emancipation, and tolerance for people of all nonviolent faiths  —   or does it want Islam? I hate to say I told you so, but I have been warning about this for years. Here’s me in November expressing concern at mass Muslim immigration. Well @nero, you called Radical Islam coming for gays in the West next  …     https:  .   —   Dave Rubin (@RubinReport) June 12, 2016,  And here’s me on The Rubin Report refusing to make the distinction between Islam and Islamism.  These are dirty secrets the progressive Left and social justice warriors would rather you didn’t know. But the cat is now out of the bag. Omar Mateen wasn’t just a homophobe, by the way. He was also a misogynist  —   a real one, not someone who offends feminists on Twitter  —   who repeatedly beat his   while they were married. Of course, as we saw in Cologne six months ago, this sort of behaviour is also the norm in Muslim cultures. Needless to say, the Left is silent on the subject. Is President Obama going to finally mention the words radical Islamic terrorism? If he doesn’t he should immediately resign in disgrace!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 12, 2016,  A lot of people laughed at Donald Trump when he suggested a temporary ban on Muslims entering the country. No doubt they thought he was further harming his chances in the general election. No one is laughing now. What’s more, I expect many are quietly wondering if the “temporary” ban might have to be permanent. Western capitalist democracy gave women and gays equal footing in society Islam has arrived to roll the clock back. Only one presidential candidate is being honest about it, which is why, if you are gay, there’s really only one choice in this election. (It was Latino night at the gay club, incidentally  —   Hispanics may wish to consider that, too.) We’ve also learned in the past few hours that the killer was already being watched by the FBI. This happened in Brussels, too. Both times, the security services dropped the ball. Something tells me that they’d be a lot more vigilant, and a lot less lenient to their surveillance targets, under a Trump administration. It’s not just gay people under threat. Atheist satirists in the west now live in fear of being executed because they drew the wrong cartoon. Women face the terrifying prospect of being attacked at night for wearing a short skirt. The barbaric cultures of Raqqa, Riyadh, and Kabul now prowl the streets of Cologne, Paris, and Orlando, Florida. Atheists, previously wedded to the political left, have started to grow sick of the constant Islam apologia.   atheists like talk show host Dave Rubin and cult YouTuber Carl Benjamin have realised that the right is a greater ally against this barbaric,   ideology than the left ever will be. The LGBT “community” needs to confront the same problem and make its choice. If it continues to be a part of the left’s Neville   attitude towards Islam, it will effectively be committing suicide. Let’s be clear: Islam isn’t our enemy. Hateful rhetoric against Muslims isn’t just wrong —  it plays into terrorists’ hands. #GOPdebate,  —   Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) January 15, 2016,  The Christian Right may not be totally down with homos, and Trump may say things that hurt our delicate feelings, but they aren’t going to kill us or put us in camps. Only Islam would do that  —   the same Islam that, bizarrely, now stands at the top of the left’s hierarchy of victimhood. Liberals: the problem with putting Muslims at the top of your victimhood hierarchy is that THEY WANT TO KILL EVERYONE ELSE ON THE LIST,  —   Milo Yiannopoulos ✘ (@Nero) June 12, 2016,  Of course the real story in Florida will be how people said mean things on the internet about Islam,  —   Milo Yiannopoulos ✘ (@Nero) June 12, 2016,  Muslims are allowed to get away with almost anything. They can shut down and intimidate prominent  . They’re allowed to engage in the most brazen   even as they run for office in European   political parties. And, of course, politicians and the media routinely turn a blind eye to the kind of sexism and homophobia that would instantly end the career of a   conservative  —   and perhaps get the latter arrested for hate speech when he dared to object. We are now living with the consequences of that tolerance. Gays executed in nightclubs. Cartoonists lying in pools of blood. Women abused en masse. Once again, this isn’t about “radical” Islam. This isn’t a tiny fringe. In Britain, a 2009 Gallup survey found that not one Muslim believed that homosexual acts were acceptable. Not one! And another poll this year revealed that over half of British Muslims believe gay sex should be illegal. 96 per cent of Palestinians believe that homosexuality is an unacceptable lifestyle choice, according to Pew Global data  —   making “Queers for Palestine” perhaps the dumbest movement since Semites for National Socialism. Unspeakably fucking stupid. pic. twitter.   —   Milo Yiannopoulos ✘ (@Nero) June 12, 2016,  So, most Muslims think I’m unacceptable. Fine. I also think their religion is unacceptable. And not just “radicals” and “extremists”  —   their entire, barbaric, backwards ideology. 100 million people live in Muslim countries where homosexuality is punishable by death. We can’t go on like this. We can’t live in an America where gays fear going to night clubs, where satirists fear execution for their speech, where cartoonists consider whether their next drawing might get them killed. Today’s killings prove beyond a shadow of a doubt that we need to give particular scrutiny to certain faiths. Gays, apostates, and women are tired of being abused, harassed, and murdered by followers of the “religion of peace. ” And politicians have to stop lying about the link between Islam and these horrific acts.  The gay Establishment, run by   wackos, is of course part of the problem too. It constantly makes excuses for Islam instead of sticking up for the people it’s supposed to protect. Wake up, faggots. The political Left is part of the problem. Saddle up, homos. If the media and politicians won’t protect us, it’s time to protect ourselves. pic. twitter.   —   Milo Yiannopoulos ✘ (@Nero) June 12, 2016,  Follow Milo Yiannopoulos (@Nero) on Twitter and Facebook. Android users can download Milo Alert! to be notified about new articles when they are published. Hear him every Friday on The Milo Yiannopoulos Show. Write to Milo at milo@breitbart. com.