New York  —   During an exclusive Breitbart News video interview, Juanita Broaddrick, the woman who accused Bill Clinton of raping her twice in a hotel room in 1978, recounted an alleged encounter with Hillary Clinton in which Broaddrick says the future presidential candidate attempted to intimidate her into being silent about the alleged rapes. [Broaddrick said she believed that Hillary Clinton knew that her husband had raped her during their encounter.  Watch the video here: Broaddrick explained that she shouldered the blame for the alleged rape since she allowed Clinton to come up to her hotel room. Several weeks after the incident, Broaddrick says she was still in a state of shock and denial about what she said had transpired. She said she attended a private Clinton fundraiser at the home of a local dentist, where she had an encounter with the Clintons and was directly approached by Hillary. In the video interview with this reporter, filmed in the presidential suite of the historic Watergate Hotel in Washington, D. C,  Broaddrick explained that she was in possession of checks from donors to be delivered to Clinton’s campaign as well as a list of potential donors.  Broaddrick was a volunteer for Clinton’s gubernatorial campaign. She says she went to the fundraiser about thirty minutes early in an attempt to avoid the Clintons. Instead, she says, Bill and Hillary Clinton arrived early, as well. She recounted during the interview: “And they come in early from the kitchen area. And just before they do, a gentleman who had driven them from the airport comes straight over to me. He was supporting Clinton but he didn’t know what had happened to me even though he was a friend. And he said the topic of the conversation all the way from the airport was about you. “And that startled me. And I knew I had to get out of there. Well, just as he moved here comes Hillary straight for me. And she gets to me and she starts saying, ‘I just want to thank you for everything you are doing for Bill’s campaign. And it’s so nice to meet you.’ And all of these things. “So I just nodded and I told my friend, ‘Let’s go.’ And I thought somebody from behind had grabbed a hold of my arm. But it was her. She grabbed a hold of my arm and my hand and she pulls me into her. And she says with this very angry look on her face, which had been so pleasant seconds before. And in a low voice, says, ‘Do you understand? Everything that you do.’ And that frightened me. ” I asked whether she believes that Hillary Clinton knew at the time that her husband had allegedly raped Broaddrick. Broaddrick replied: ““People have asked me that and said ‘Well, do you think she knew what happened?’ At that moment. And I have to go by what I felt then and the look that she gave me. I felt like she knew. ” “That he raped you?” I asked. “Yes,” Broaddrick stated. “And that she was telling me to keep quiet. ” “To keep quiet about her husband’s rape?” I questioned. “Yeah,” she stated. On Sunday, Breitbart News released an exclusive video interview in which Broaddrick recounted what she described as the   experience of being raped by Clinton. The YouTube video has since garnered over one million views. Watch that video here: Trembling, Broaddrick explained that she is still afraid of Bill Clinton and asserted that she is frightened by the prospect of Hillary winning the election. She described the alleged rape in vivid detail, providing the most extensive window yet into the singular event that she says left her traumatized until today. In one dramatic scene, a sobbing Broaddrick was embraced and consoled by another alleged Clinton sexual assault victim, Kathleen Willey, who was present for the filming. Willey tells the crying Broaddrick: “It’s not your fault. Okay. It’s not your fault. It’s not your fault. You didn’t do anything wrong. You didn’t do anything wrong. Okay. Okay?” Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio. ” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.