Maria Poblet, a community organizer for San Francisco’s “sanctuary city” policy, recently retweeted a “Make America Mexico Again” hat on two separate days on her Twitter feed. [Get your hat: https:  .    All proceeds go to @ConMijente @jorgeramosnews @joseiswriting #NeverTrump pic. twitter.   —   Jeronimo Saldaña (@JeronimoSaldana) May 5, 2016,   Maria Poblet is the executive director of the Causa Justa :: Just Cause group that is working to expand San Francisco’s “sanctuary city” law. A woman with Causa Justa :: Just Cause tried to block this reporter from filming the group’s members violating the rules at a Board of Supervisors meeting Tuesday night, then caused me to be removed from the public meeting. The “Make America Mexico Again” meme is a takeoff on Donald Trump’s strong   and   immigration stance. However, the underlying message of the meme is serious. Many Mexicans and   think that states including California, Arizona and New Mexico were stolen from Mexico and belong to them. A 2012 poll found that 58 percent of Mexicans think that the Southwest portion of the United States rightfully belongs to Mexico. As UPI reported: The group, over the period May   asked a series of questions of 801 Mexicans. A total of 1, 015 U. S. citizens were questioned between May  . The data have a margin of error of 3. 5 percent. Asked if they believed the U. S. Southwest rightfully belonged to Mexico, 58 percent of respondents in Mexico said it did, while 28 percent disagreed. A similar number  —   57 percent  —   stated agreement with the position that Mexicans have the right to enter the United States without U. S. permission. A total of 35 percent disagreed. The public lie told by groups like Causa Justa :: Just Cause is that they are simply supporting “immigrant rights. ” The reality is that they have a real agenda that they generally keep from the general public, because they know that their real views are repugnant to the public at large. Follow Breitbart News investigative reporter and Citizen Journalism School founder Lee Stranahan on Twitter at @Stranahan.