Rapper Kanye West reportedly had a “massive meltdown” and fired his entire staff following the   Yeezy Season 4 fashion show debacle last month, which has been variously described as “hell on earth” and a “shameful and horrible” display of “cruelty” toward the models. [“He had his agent fire all 30 of his staff after the fashion show and got rid of his phone so people can only contact him via ” an unnamed insider told the New York Post’s Page Six. “He had a nervous breakdown after the show and that’s what triggered it all. ”  The Life of Pablo rapper’s New York Fashion Week show was rife with problems, from reports of models falling faint from heat exhaustion to other models throwing off their shoes in fits of rage. Model undone by the heat at Yeezy. pic. twitter.   —   Vanessa Friedman (@VVFriedman) September 7, 2016,  GQ magazine capture video of one model kicking off her shoes and leaving the runway. Yeezy model throws off her shoes half way through the show pic. twitter.   —   GQ Magazine (@GQMagazine) September 7, 2016,  However, another source told the Post that while West was “disappointed” in the outcome of his fashion show, he “didn’t have a ‘nervous breakdown. ” That source added that “some people got let go, and there was a reorganization of others who he moved back to the music side of things. ” “He’s a grownup. He was reflective and disappointed in how things went,” the source continued. “He took stock in what people were saying and he was disappointed. But he’s more determined than ever to get that stuff right. And as far as throwing away his cellphone? If he did, then it’s not the first time. He always does that. ” An inside source also said that West has since focussed his energy on his Saint Pablo concert tour. The Grammy   rapper has since rescheduled dates for the tour following an incident last weekend in which his wife, Kim Kardashian, was reportedly robbed of more than $10 million in jewelry at gunpoint in a Paris hotel room. “She is badly shaken but physically unharmed,” the reality television star’s spokesperson said in a statement after the incident. West ended his performance at a music festival in New York City on Saturday to be with his wife.   Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @JeromeEHudson