UPDATE: A rep for Jenner has denied reports that he plans to “ ” back into a man. “Not worth commenting on such an idiotic report,” a Jenner spokesperson told the New York Daily News. “Of course it’s not true. ”[Bruce Jenner, who underwent facial feminization and other surgery last year in his transition into becoming Caitlyn Jenner, has experienced “sex change regret” and has considered “ ” back into being a man, according to a Kardashian family biographer.  Author Ian Halperin, whose book Kardashian Dynasty: The Controversial Rise of America’s First Family was released last month, told the Wrap that multiple sources confirmed to him that Jenner has considered transitioning back to Bruce because he is still physically attracted to women “and wants to meet the right one. ” Halperin predicts Jenner will   over the next few years. “It hasn’t been easy for Caitlyn, it’s been very hard,” a friend of the famous family reportedly told Halperin. “She’s thrilled she has raised awareness about how transgender people have long been discriminated against but I think there’s a chance she’ll   in the next couple years. I don’t think it would surprise anybody in her inner circle. It has been much harder than she anticipated. My heart goes out to her and I know her true friends will be there to support her on whatever path she chooses. ” Jenner came out as a woman in a     interview with Diane Sawyer in April of last year. He cemented the transition with a   cover of Vanity Fair magazine, in which he revealed his new name with the caption, “Call Me Cait. ” Jenner quickly parlayed his renewed fame into the E! reality   I Am Cait and into lucrative deals with some brands, including MAC cosmetics. Jenner was also the recipient of the ESPN’s Arthur Ashe Courage Award at the ESPYs, and was named Glamour magazine’s “Woman of the Year” in October. If Jenner does   it likely won’t be because of the prevalence of transphobia in Hollywood in February, Jenner told students at the University of Pennsylvania that it is easier to be transgender in Hollywood than it is to be a Republican.  