Bill Maher sounded off on the strength and resiliency of GOP frontrunner Donald Trump’s presidential campaign, saying in a new interview that there is little the New York billionaire could do now that could derail voters’ faith in him. [“I mean, what does this guy have to do to get people to turn off to him  —   fart in Jesus’ face?” the famously liberal    host of HBO’s Real Time told Variety in a   interview. “He could end a rally by f —  king a pie with his tiny c —  k. I have always attributed that to the fact that America has been choking on political correctness for 20 years or more. ”  Maher, who has in the past compared the GOP frontrunner to Adolf Hitler, told the outlet that the suffocating nature of political correctness has gotten worse since the 1993 debut of his Comedy Central show Politically Incorrect, and said that America has finally found a candidate who won’t take back anything he says because it could offend somebody. “And, by the way, that is a very attractive stance to take,” Maher said of Trump’s unapologetic style. “It is just unfortunate it is being taken by someone who is an idiot. ” Maher, who enthusiastically endorsed Bernie Sanders in the Democratic primary in February, also revealed that he is not sure whether or not he’ll contribute to what is now presumed to be a general election campaign effort for frontrunner Hillary Clinton. The talk show host reportedly donated $1 million to President Obama’s reelection campaign in 2012, but told Variety that he’s “not as inspired by [Clinton]” as he was by Obama. “But I also think that the stakes are even higher [this year],” Maher added. “I was no Mitt Romney fan, but the prospect of a Donald Trump presidency is enough to scare money out of my bank account. ” Still, Maher maintains that Republican voters will back away from Trump as the election nears, because American voters are simply “playing a game of chicken with the establishment. ” “I think they are going to turn that car around before they go off the cliff, because you know what? The truth is, as much as the Republicans talk about what a s —  t hole this country is, it is actually in better shape than it has been in a long time,” he added. Read Maher’s full interview with Variety here. Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum,  