Pop music megastar Adele set off a social media frenzy after she cursed more than 30 times during her   headlining performance at the Glastonbury music festival this weekend, even after she was apparently warned by broadcasting authorities not to use foul language. [The “Skyfall” singer’s emotional performance came with a curse word every 2. 7 minutes, according to the Mirror‘s calculations.  Adele opened her performance with an intimate version of her hit song “Hello,” which she interrupted by shouting to the crowd, “You are f*cking amazing!” “Oh my God. Oh my God. Hi,” the singer said a few songs into her set. “This is the best f**king moment of my whole life. Oh my God. Look at you. Can you put the lights on [the audience] more? I want to see them. ” Social media users responded quickly, with some praising Adele’s passionate performance while others chastised the singer for using foul language. Great set by @Adele but did she have to swear so much? Sorry kids you can’t watch mummy sing at #Glasto2016 cos she’s got a #pottymouth,  —   Richard Tomlinson (@TomlinsonRichie) June 26, 2016,  Others said “Adele please stop swearing, there are children watching, as you very well know coz you just brought one on stage! Glastonbury,” while another wrote: ” Adele stop swearing. Children in audience. Inappropriate languageispower,” according to the Mirror.  Of course not everyone was offended by the   ’s choice language. Some were supportive: I’m enjoying #Adele swearing and chatting away to the crowd at #Glastonbury. It’s like they’re all down the pub having chats and pints.  —   Blazer Dave (@wynterwax) June 25, 2016,  So people are complaining that Adele was swearing in front of children at at Glastonbury  …      …    it’s 11pm at night  …    Iam I being naive  …      …    ?  —   Claire Nicholl (@NichollClaire) June 25, 2016,  Others simply cracked jokes about how big Adele’s swear jar must be. Adele and her swear jar  …     pic. twitter.   —   Steven Beddoe (@SteveyB46) June 26, 2016,  Adele even admitted that the BBC had warned her about using foul language during her performance. “The BBC had to give me a warning about my potty mouth,” she said. “Bet Muse didn’t get that!” Adele hadn’t performed at Glastonbury since 2007, when she was a    with no hit singles and was relatively unknown. Perhaps that’s why Sunday’s performance was so emotional for the “Rolling in the Deep” singer. “I didn’t want to come on and now I don’t want to go off,” she told the packed crowd. “”I have never been so moved by anything in my life  …     This is, by far, the best moment of my life so far. ”   Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson