Suddenly the First Amendment means something to our Media Overlords. Now that Donald Trump has taken to trolling the corrupt media with a promise to further open up libel laws against them, the DC Media is back to treating the First Amendment as something inviolable and sacrosanct. As you read this, keep in mind that Trump is breaking the b*lls of the same media that has spent the last two years crusading to violate your First Amendment religious protections:  One of the things I’m gonna do, and this is only gonna make it tougher for me, and I’ve never said this before, but one of the things I’m gonna do if I win   …     is I’m gonna open up our libel laws so when they write purposely negative and horrible and false articles, we can sue them and win lots of money. We’re gonna open up those libel laws. So that when the New York Times writes a hit piece which is a total disgrace, or when the Washington Post   …     writes a hit piece, we can sue them and win money, instead of having no chance of winning because they’re totally protected. Naturally, the response from these elite,   hypocrites was swift and sanctimonious. Don’t you dare restrict my First Amendment right. Don’t you dare make me bake a   cake. Never forget that these are the same   who believe the government has the power to force you to participate in the sacramentalization of sin to risk your eternal soul by baking a   cake or participating in a   wedding by doing the flower arrangements. Using the   of gay rights to persecute Christians  —   to violate *our* First Amendment protections, has been a goal of the DC Media for decades. But it has just been in the last few years that the media has openly declared their support of government oppression to force Christians into servitude. You will bake a cake. You will arrange flowers. Or you will lose everything, Godtard. Better still, put the Thought Criminal in prison. Trump’s just messing with the media. Libel laws already exist. But how does that little ball of fear taste? How does the boot of the government on your neck feel? Imagine living in a world where the government can force you violate your conscience. Suck on that, DC Media. On behalf of the Gay Mafia, you’re the ones who cracked open the Pandora’s Box of the First Amendment. Your rules. Not mine. Cry me a river.   Follow John Nolte on Twitter @NolteNC                  