OTTAWA  —   Rapidly changing winds brought Alberta’s huge wildfire to the perimeter of two of the oldest and largest of Canada’s oil sands complexes on Tuesday, posing a new threat to an industry that just a day earlier had been preparing to resume   operations. And hopes that residents of the city of Fort McMurray, or at least those whose houses were not destroyed, might soon be able to return similarly waned. While the huge firestorm’s new path largely bypassed the city on Monday night and early Tuesday, two explosions added an additional 10 houses to the tally of destruction. An estimated 2, 400 buildings have been destroyed, officials said. As the raging blaze, now more than a week old, turned north, skirting the western edge of Fort McMurray on Monday afternoon and evening, a series of small camps holding about 600 oil sands workers were evacuated. By Tuesday, according to Rachel Notley, the premier of Alberta, about 6, 000 workers had been moved to the north while an additional 2, 000 fled south. Thousands of the northern escapees then made their way back south to Edmonton, the nearest major city to Fort McMurray, by air on Tuesday. The workers had mainly come from the big   mines and processing facilities owned by the companies Suncor and Syncrude. Over the past week, workers had been gradually traveling north from Edmonton and elsewhere to restart those operations. Some of them had just returned only to quickly find themselves again boarding an evacuation bus. By midday on Tuesday, the provincial government said that just eight employees remained at Suncor and 78 at Syncrude. In normal times, up to 7, 400 people work at Syncrude, producing up to 350, 000 barrels of oil a day. Most of the holdouts are members of the two companies’ fire brigades. Chad Morrison, the head of Alberta’s wildfire service, said that the fire was now close to the Syncrude and Suncor oil sands plants. As it made its way there overnight on Monday, the flames devoured a   work camp that had been evacuated hours earlier. But Mr. Morrison added that “we feel there’s good resilience with the industrial sites. ” In addition to having   and   fire brigades of their own, a wide band of gravel surrounds the oil sands operations as a fire break. Both companies have been extending the size of those barriers since the outbreak of the wildfire. If the fire nevertheless finds a way to enter the open pit mines where gigantic excavators scoop up tar like bitumen and place it in similarly oversize dump trucks, Mr. Morrison said that the province’s experience during a 2011 fire suggested that the   bitumen is unlikely to ignite. The plants where the bitumen is separated from sand and then converted into a synthetic crude oil present a potentially greater fire risk. Yet they are located well away from the fire and the forests. While firefighting efforts have been concentrated on preserving the undamaged parts of Fort McMurray, reopening the oil sands plants, which generally lie to the north, has also been a priority. In an analysis written just before the latest setback, the Conference Board of Canada estimated that 14 days of shutdown would mean a loss of production valued at 985 million Canadian dollars, about $762 million. Royalties from the oil sands are also an important part of the provincial budget. Some oil sands operations, like those of Shell Canada, are well north and were not affected on Tuesday. There were no estimates late Tuesday afternoon about when the   workers might be able to give restarting the operations a second try. On Monday, smoke was clearly as big a problem as the fire. Video made by evacuating workers showed that the atmosphere had turned a dull   red. Normally, Alberta’s poorest air quality ranking is 10, with 1 being the cleanest. Ms. Notley said that the rating hit 38 on Monday and was still at 13 on Tuesday. The cause of the two explosions remained under investigation, Ms. Notley said. After a round of setbacks, Ms. Notley’s one bit of good news was not unalloyed. “The more that’s burned around the edge of Fort McMurray,” she told a news conference, “the safer it becomes. ”