Monday on his radio show, conservative talk show host Mark Levin took aim at Republican presidential   Donald Trump for his attacks on former President George W. Bush during last Saturday night’s debate on CBS.  Levin said he was no fan of Republican National Committee chairman Reince Priebus for his handling of the debate. However, the bulk of his criticism was aimed Trump for suggesting   Bush was in part to blame for the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorists attacks. “The debate  —   let me tell you something about this debate,” Levin said. “The fact that Donald Trump attacked George W. Bush, not because of his liberal domestic policies, not because he expanded Medicare, not because he was weak on the First Amendment. Not because of those things. Expanded Medicare, increased the debt, was for comprehensive immigration reform. But the fact that he attacked George Bush as a   . Not because he disagreed with him. He attacked him as a liar who knew there were not weapons of mass destruction in Iraq and said he was responsible for   and he was responsible for those towers coming down. Ladies and gentlemen, that’s why I posted on my Facebook this guy sounds like Code Pink. ” “He sounds like a radical kook,” he continued. “All the rest aside. All of it aside. I know too many Gold Star families who lost sons over there to hear this   truther crap, which is pretty close to it. Pretty damn close to it. If George Bush went to war in Iraq and was lying about weapons of mass destruction there could not be a worse thing a president of the United States could do, or human being for that matter. And there were weapons of mass destruction in Iraq. And he was not responsible for  . To have the leading Republican nominee for president of the United States to make these statements, and he’s been praised by Code Pink. He should be praised by Code Pink and every kook organization out there and every   kook organization that hates America. To have him praised for what he said? Terrible. Absolutely terrible. You and I’ve lived through this. You and I have lived through this. This isn’t distant history. ” Follow Jeff Poor on Twitter @jeff_poor