Friday on his national radio show, conservative talker Rush Limbaugh cited Breitbart editor at large Peter Schweizer’s book “Clinton Cash” to illustrate the point that the Clinton’s actual behavior and how they are portraying themselves and being portrayed by the media is disconnected from reality.  Limbaugh alluded to questions surrounding the timing of a deal involving Canadian company Uranium One and the Russian government, which recently took a 51 percent controlling interest in Uranium One and Uranium One’s donations to the Clinton Foundation. According to Limbaugh, the lack of skepticism from the media has allowed for the former President Bill Clinton and Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton to create the narrative they are looking out for the middle class and accuse their political opponents of only seeking to help out the well connected. Partial transcript as follows: Now, folks, I don’t mean to sound unsympathetic to your frustrations.  I feel them.  In fact, I know what is frustrating.  I know how to boil it down to a precious few words.  You may not even know exactly what it is that’s bothering you.  I mean, you may have a specific complaint here or there, but I have the umbrella under which all these things are falling.  I’ll tell you exactly what it is. There’s no reality.  And this is why people are freaking out.  Our last call.  Her story about the Clintons and the manipulation of uranium and the arrangement so that they personally profit to tens of millions of dollars’ worth and the end result is the transferal of a lot of US uranium, the United States uranium stockpile to Kazakhstan, or one of the stans.  It literally happened.  Everything in Peter [Schweizer]’s book, Clinton Cash, everything in it is real.  Everything in it happened. But, if it’s not talked about in say the   Media, does it even exist, is it real? You know it, you’ve read it, you maybe have heard some of the stories in Clinton Cash. You’ve heard some of the details in Dinesh D’Souza’s movie, Hillary’s America. But yet it doesn’t seem to matter. Therefore there’s no reality. Everything is buzz. Everything is PR. Everything is spin. And the purpose of the buzz and the spin and the PR is to erase the reality. And you watch it happen with ease and it makes your skin crawl. You get just ticked off like you can’t express about it, because all it adds up to is people like the Clintons and everybody else on the left getting away with all of this. And no matter how hard you try and no matter what you do and no matter how many books, no matter how many movies, no matter how much criminality, Hillary Clinton should have been impeached over her email server. But here she is running for president and we were told nobody with a correct assessment would even prosecute what she did, even though we got the laundry list of crimes that she committed. So there’s no reality. It doesn’t seem to a lot of people like there’s any way. Truth was always supposed to be the great equalizer, to you and me growing up. We have all been mistreated. We’ve all been cheated. We’ve all been on the short end of the stick. And our parents or somebody told us that eventually things even out and justice eventually happens, the evolution of life takes care of this. It doesn’t seem to with them. They are immune. They get to wantonly break the law. The Clintons can go into Haiti under the guise of helping that poor, dilapidated country rebuild and basically steal a decent, a   amount of the money that goes in there and put it in their foundation. They have a foundation that maybe distributes 20% of what’s in it for charitable purposes, even that they don’t talk about. The Clintons leave the White House claiming that they’re broke and now they’re filthy rich so much so that they brag about it. And the bragging about it usually is in the nature of (imitating Clinton) “Hey, I don’t mind paying more taxes. I’m rich now. I mean, I don’t understand these people get mad at these calls for tax increases ’cause I’m happy to pay it, I’m happy to pay it. And I don’t think anybody in my bracket ought to be complaining about it. ” Translation: “I’m rich and you’re not. And I got mine in ways you can’t get yours. Yeah. And you know the trick is, I made you think I care about you.    . ” So you and I, we watch all this, there doesn’t seem to be any justice, there doesn’t seem to be any reality. Follow Breitbart. tv on Twitter @BreitbartVideo