NEW YORK CITY, New York  —   During their first appearance as running mates, presumptive Republican nominee Donald Trump and his vice president (VP) Indiana Gov. Mike Pence delivered a unified message against presumptive Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton, the former secretary of state, pointing to the terrorism and turmoil in the world under her leadership with President Obama. [Speaking to roughly 300 supporters at the Hilton in Midtown Manhattan on Saturday morning, the duo  —   in separate speeches  —   railed against the former secretary of state’s foreign policy.  “We’ve witnessed horror beyond belief. No matter where you look and now it’s happening more and more,” Trump began his criticism of Clinton, referencing radical Islamic terrorism and the recent attack in Nice, France. “We need new leadership. We need new thinking. We need strength. We need in our country law and order and if I’m elected president that will happen. ” “After four years of Clinton, who really led the way and led Obama down a horrible path because I don’t even think she could have made these decisions so badly  …    Iraq, Syria  —   all into chaos  —   and Iran is on a path to nuclear weapons,” Trump criticized of the former secretary of state. “Now we’re seeing unrest in Turkey  —   a further demonstration of the failures of  . ” After Trump introduced him, Pence echoed the same concerns about Clinton’s leadership. “Elections are about choices,” the Indiana governor began as he moved into criticizing the Democratic Party’s presumptive nominee. “The choice could not be more clear, the stakes could not be higher. ” “Americans can choose a leader who will fight to make America safe and prosperous again and bring real change or we can elect someone who literally personifies the failed establishment in Washington, D. C.,” he said, referencing Clinton. “Seven and a half years of Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton’s policies have weakened America’s place in the world and stifled our nation’s economy. ” “Terrorist attacks at home and abroad  —   grim and heartbreaking scenes from France just a few short days ago, the attempted coup in Turkey  —   all attest to a world spinning apart,” he stressed. “History teaches us that weakness arouses evil. Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama’s foreign policy from leading from behind  …    is a testament to this truth of history and we must bring a change to America’s standing in the world. ” “We cannot have four more years of apologizing to our enemies and abandoning our friends. America needs to be strong for the world to be safe. ” Pence vowed, “Donald Trump will lead from strength. ”