The first thing Yotam Ottolenghi did before he began cooking a   feast for family and friends  —   before sliding the lamb into the oven, before building four salads, before assembling an immense layer cake, before he even started to sort through the mountain of ingredients stacked on the kitchen counters  —   was to take a look at the china on which the food would eventually be served. “Food styling is what I do best,” he said. “So I start at the end, with the plates and platters. And then I start to cook. ” This is a task many home cooks ignore, then wonder why their meals are not quite as beautiful as the ones photographed in Ottolenghi’s   books or served at his London restaurants and takeout shops. He put the names of the dishes he was going to cook onto sheets of paper and then matched each one with the platter that he thought would best highlight the food’s color and shape: cerulean blue for some plumlike beets, for instance, and a stark white for the grilled and crispy meat. It took about five minutes. But in the world of Ottolenghi, what food looks like, and how it is served, matters as much as how delicious it is. And it is very delicious. Ottolenghi, 47, is a British citizen who was born and raised in Israel. Married with two young boys, he is also the paterfamilias of a much bigger Ottolenghi household: partners and employees in a thriving business that includes three restaurants, two shops, books (five and counting, starting with “Ottolenghi: The Cookbook,” in 2008) and a regular newspaper column. Ottolenghi’s food is vaguely vegetarian, but not exclusively so, a mix of Israeli and Palestinian and Turkish and Syrian and Armenian and Asian influences that he has made seem effortlessly elegant  —   at least if you can find the right spices. (Which you can if you have access to an international market or the Internet.) For a generation of home cooks whose crowning glory might have been a glistening Sunday roast accompanied by wan vegetables, the brightly colored, richly scented salads and side dishes prepared in his kitchens and outlined in his recipes provide a kind of gateway to culinary excellence, with color and smell and flavor all wrapped together in a magnificent synesthetic whole. It was that larger clan Ottolenghi was cooking with and for this day, a group of friends who have found their professional and personal lives aligned around a shared enterprise and common aesthetic. It was a busman’s holiday for people who really like to drive buses. There was Tara Wigley, with whom he collaborates on books and recipes. She had offered up the kitchen and garden of her South London home for the feast. With her were Sarah Joseph and Esme Howarth, two cooks who labor alongside Ottolenghi in the   atelier he maintains at his headquarters in Camden. Others would arrive later to mix cocktails, grill things, open wine. It would be a day of work, perhaps, but one that ended with a grand party. “I don’t see it as a formal thing,” Ottolenghi said. He saw the meal, he said, as a Middle Eastern take on a proper English garden party. Ottolenghi spent the previous afternoon shopping, driving through thick London traffic in his Prius, checking his usual haunts, stores at which he shops for both work and leisure. He went to Godfrey’s in Highbury, the same butcher that supplies his restaurants, for lamb, and chatted amiably with Chris Godfrey, whose family has run the place since 1905. Then he dashed across the street to the serene La Fromagerie for cheese. He tacked toward his home in Camden for verdant herbs and vegetables and luscious yogurt from Parkway Greens, as he does nearly every day with his sons, and then to Kensington High Street for pomegranates, fresh almonds and dried rose petals from Bahar and Zaman, two Iranian shops. The groceries piled high behind him in the car. Those groceries took up most of the counter space in Wigley’s kitchen. Ottolenghi is a list maker, as anyone preparing a lot of food for a lot of people ought to be, and after he was done selecting platters, he pulled out a folded list of the tasks they needed to complete before everyone arrived. Wigley, Joseph and Howarth gathered around him to talk it through. It was their menu as much as his, and the discussion that followed was familial and cooperative, less a chef barking orders than a group of friends figuring out how best to tackle a crossword puzzle. Here again were important lessons for the home cook who aspires to serve a feast: Do not work alone. And as a corollary: Revel in it. Choose a menu collaboratively, one in which all the dishes emerge from the same larder, complementing one another, and then cook it collaboratively as well, so that if there is immense bounty on the table when you’re done, no one has become exhausted preparing it. By noon, the kitchen was humming with activity. The lamb, which was now in the oven, perfumed the air with ginger and cumin and cloves. Howarth blackened eggplants on the stovetop as the first step in creating a kind of deconstructed baba ghanouj, while Wigley sliced cherry tomatoes and red onions for a salad she would mix with pomegranate seeds, little hunks of feta and copious amounts of mint, basil and za’atar, the Middle Eastern spice blend generally made of oregano, thyme, salt and toasted sesame seeds. Joseph, meanwhile, wedged herself into a corner and began to fill a roasting pan with beets and whole heads of garlic. She was going to roast them all into softness, then use the garlic in     yogurt and place the caramelized beets on top. Ottolenghi said he wanted to prepare the yogurt. “I do like to cook, you know,” he said. The dishes mounted. They built a delicate bowl of sliced cucumber and mâche. It was a taste of spring scattered with mint and cilantro leaves and showered in nigella seeds, with a dressing of yogurt and ginger, garlic and lemon juice that they would dot onto the salad just as it was served. There was basmati rice to bake as well, with shallots, garlic, fresh curry leaves and saffron, a surprisingly rich and flavorful combination, a dish that would pair with almost any grilled or roasted meat. “I’ll do it!” Howarth said eagerly. The four cooks worked together as touring concert musicians might, taking a day off just to jam. Dessert was complicated. The plan was to build what Ottolenghi calls a celebration cake, a dessert he serves at catered events. Helen Goh, a longtime pastry collaborator, with whom he is writing a book on baking, was coming to the feast. Ottolenghi, who trained as a pastry chef at Le Cordon Bleu in London after finishing a master’s thesis in philosophy at Tel Aviv University, wanted it to be perfect for her: layers of cake held together not by flour or nuts but by what Ottolenghi called “the magic of whipped egg whites, sabayon and the chilling effect of the freezer. ” The day before, he made a   ganache. He also baked the spongy cake layers and put them in the freezer overnight. Now he needed only to put the cake together, a task he set to with intense concentration, straightening only to examine his work, somewhat critically. “I think it’s best if it is superrustic,” he said. And here once more was guidance for the home cook. This cake was far from perfect. The edges of the layers were not flawlessly cut. There were cracks across their centers. The cream was loosely applied, and the berries on top of it were spread almost  . And yet: They were not. The cake looked incredibly elegant. When he was finished, Ottolenghi gathered the platters and started to fill them. Again he bent to the job, his back almost parallel to the floor, arranging the food just so, a heron at work. It might have seemed precious except that the results far outstripped the time spent achieving them. He placed the dishes on a sideboard to await the start of the party. “  food is so horrible,” he said. “You can let it sit out and be beautiful instead. ” The kitchen, already crowded, began to fill with family and friends. Ramael Scully, the head chef at Ottolenghi’s NOPI, arrived and quickly headed toward the grill. Scully was born in Malaysia to parents of Chinese, Indian, Malay and Irish descent and raised in Australia. “So I like to burn things,” he said when he arrived. “Scully’s the man in the family,” Ottolenghi replied, to laughter. Ottolenghi’s husband, Karl Ottolenghi Allen, followed with their older son, Max, who is 3. Ottolenghi picked him up and smothered him with kisses, before Wigley’s three children burst downstairs to take Max to the garden. Sami Tamimi, the Palestinian chef who collaborated with Ottolenghi on two cookbooks (including the   “Jerusalem” from 2012) was hard on their heels. Everyone was hugging everyone else, gossiping and catching up, palming fresh almonds off the counter as snacks. A party had broken out and spilled from the kitchen into the garden. The whole tableau came together there in perfect   light: a large, boisterous family bound together by business and love. Ottolenghi intercepted his son running across the grass. Adults had started to gather around the table, to seat themselves and pour one another wine. “Let’s roll up our sleeves, Max,” Ottolenghi said. “Let’s eat a lot of food. ” Recipes: Jerusalem Lamb Shawarma |    Salad | Tomato and Pomegranate Salad | Baba Ghanouj, Deconstructed | Grilled Asparagus With Caper Salsa | Baked Rice | Celebration Cake