**UPDATE** Milo Yiannopoulos has ended his speech early and led attendees to march on the DePaul President’s office in protest. Several protesters stormed the stage, blowing whistles, making threats, and disrupting the event. Campus security, however, did not remove them. [A live feed of the march is viewable on the YouTube embed below.  ***** Breitbart Tech editor Milo Yiannopoulos will address students at DePaul University Tuesday beginning at 6PM CDT. The event, jointly hosted by DePaul College Republicans and Turning Point USA, can be watched below.  The organisers are urging those who want to attend the talk to RSVP on Facebook, as they only have space for 550 audience members and are expecting more. Milo is currently on his “Dangerous Faggot” tour of American campuses, causing leftists to go into a general   wherever he goes. At Rutgers University, feminists smeared fake blood on their faces, whilst at a joint event with Steven Crowder and Christina Hoff Sommers at University of Massachusetts, one student raged at the speakers. A video of this outburst went viral, with the student being labelled “Trigglypuff”. At DePaul itself, a student with the moniker “No Hate” set up a petition two weeks ago to stop Milo from speaking, claiming his words “hurt people” and even “kill. ” The petition also said the name of Milo’s tour included a “homophobic slur. ” Thankfully, this was rejected by university President Dennis Holtschneider. However, it seems that the DePaul administrators realised that cancelling the event outright would cause a media firestorm. According to Brendan Newell, Chairman Emeritus of the College Republicans at DePaul, the university first attempted to limit the amount of people coming to the event, slashing the numbers down from 550 to 250. After a struggle with the administration, it was agreed that the original guest size would be permitted, but that they would require 15 security guards instead of 8, ramping up the security costs by $840. Newell noted that this treatment is unfair, as   groups can flaunt regulations but those on the right have to jump through hoops in order to set up an event. Tonight, there will be an event hosted by DePaul Socialists to run concurrent with Milo’s speech, entitled “Confronting the Right: What Works, What Doesn’t and Why,” investigating why it is “the right” who are the defenders of free speech today and not the left. A planned picket of Milo’s talk will also be occurring, as protesters urge people to not “feed the trolls” and instead stand in “solidarity” against “hate speech. ” Jack Hadfield is a student at the University of Warwick and a regular contributor to Breitbart Tech. You can follow him on Twitter here: @ToryBastard_.