The president of Ministers Taking a Stand  —   a national organization of Pastors and Christian leaders addressing moral and spiritual issues in American culture  —   is calling on the black community to sever its relationship with the “ ” Democrat Party as the 2016 election looms. [Bishop E. W. Jackson says that black Christians should not continue its relationship with a Democrat Party that is increasingly hostile to Christianity.   “Four years ago I released a video called EXODUS NOW, calling black Christians to come out of the Democrat Party,” Jackson says in the video. “When I did that video there was no gay marriage. Now we have it, and the Democrat Party is mainly responsible. I am back to say once again, come out!” Jackson  —   a graduate of both Harvard Law School and Harvard Divinity School  —   urges black voters to oppose Democrats on the issues of marriage and abortion. “Why has the Democrat Party embraced gay marriage when black voters believe in the biblical definition of marriage?” he asks. “Why does the Democrat Party avidly support Planned Parenthood when they know its founder, Margaret Sanger, was a racist eugenicist who wanted to stop the growth of the black population?” Last summer, Jackson led a campaign to have a bust of Margaret Sanger removed from the National Portrait Gallery of the Smithsonian Institution. The bishop also dismisses the claims by many in the black community that Democrats have helped minorities and the poor: If the Democrat Party has done so much for the black community, why is poverty increasing? Why are there no jobs? Why is the unemployment rate among black citizens twice the national average? Why is there a 50% unemployment rate among black youth? They don’t care about black people. They care about those who will bow to them. Jackson says Democrats continue to manipulate black voters with fear of what they will lose if they don’t vote Democrat. According to the bishop, however, the government policies of Democrats have hurt rather than helped the black community. “The two parent black family has been all but destroyed,” he asserts. “Too many young black people are on drugs, in gangs, prison or the morgue. In fact, government programs supported by the Democrat Party always make poverty worse. ” “When you get to the polls this year, they will hand you a ballot expecting you to vote a straight Democrat ticket,” Jackson says to blacks. “It’s time to say, ‘No thank you.’ It is time to stop blindly following the Democrat Party and start faithfully following God. ”