Doubling down on his feud with the Democratic Party leadership, Senator Bernie Sanders said that if elected president, he will not reappoint Democratic National Committee chairwoman, Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz of Florida. He made the comments during an interview with CNN’s Jake Tapper that is set to air on Sunday. Mr. Sanders also said he was supporting Tim Canova, a law professor who has begun an insurgent campaign against Ms. Wasserman Schultz for her South Florida congressional seat. They will face off in a primary this summer. “Well, clearly, I favor her opponent,” Mr. Sanders told Mr. Tapper. “His views are much closer to mine. ” For months, Mr. Sanders has accused the party of favoring Hillary Clinton, often calling her the “anointed candidate. ” He has criticized the party for a debate schedule that his campaign says favors Mrs. Clinton an arrangement under which Mrs. Clinton raises money for the party and the appointment of Clinton supporters as leaders of important convention committees. Most recently, he and the party have sparred over what happened at the Nevada Democratic convention a week ago. There, Sanders supporters disrupted the proceedings in a fight over delegates and the state party chairwoman was later threatened. After the party rebuked Mr. Sanders for not clearly condemning what had occurred, his campaign manager, Jeff Weaver, accused Ms. Wasserman Schultz of “throwing shade on the Sanders campaign from the very beginning. ” This week, Ms. Wasserman Schultz pushed back against the Sanders campaign in an interview with CNN. “We’ve had the same rules in place that elected Barack Obama,” she told the network. “These rules were adopted for state parties all across the country in 2014. ” In a statement on Saturday, she said that “even though Senator Sanders has endorsed my opponent, I remain, as I have been from the beginning, neutral in the presidential Democratic primary. ” As president, Mr. Sanders would have the ability to appoint the committee chair, though it is not likely he will get that chance, as Mrs. Clinton is close to clinching the nomination. Nevertheless, he can try to draw a little blood from Ms. Wasserman Schultz with his endorsement of her primary opponent, Mr. Canova, the underdog in the race. Mr. Canova, a Nova Southeastern University law professor, has echoed Mr. Sanders’s messages about the need to combat economic inequalities and reform campaign finance. He has also mirrored, on a small scale, Mr. Sanders’s   model by raising more than $1 million through small donations that have averaged about $19 each. “I’m so proud to know that Bernie Sanders favors our progressive campaign,” Mr. Canova said in a statement on Saturday. “Like Senator Sanders, I’m running a campaign that’s truly backed by the people, not big corporations  —   one that stands up to Wall Street interests instead of cozying up to them. ” Mr. Sanders spent Saturday campaigning across the Western states. At a rally in Vado, N. M. he offered a series of familiar attacks against Mrs. Clinton, criticizing her use of “super PACs,” her stances on trade agreements and her support of fracking. He also talked about the need to improve the poverty and high school graduation rates in the state. Mr. Sanders then went to California, where he planned to hold an evening rally in National City and where he visited International Friendship Park, an area on the United States border with Mexico. There, he walked along two large walls separating the countries with an immigration activist and Maria Puga, a woman whose husband was killed by border patrol agents as he attempted a crossing from Mexico. Mr. Sanders vowed that if elected, he will push for comprehensive immigration reform. He called a proposal by the presumptive Republican nominee, Donald J. Trump, to build a wall along the entire border both “immoral” and “impractical. ”