Victims of the Cologne New Year’s Eve migrant sex abuse gangs have told of the harrowing attacks they were subjected to this weekend, as it emerges a total of 118 Germans have now come forward to police to report having been assaulted. [Although the story was initially ignored in the German news media, details began to emerge of the shocking attacks on Monday during a police conference called to deal with the complaints of abuse and police negligence circulating on social media, as Breitbart London revealed to the   world at the time.  Even large groups of girls travelling together were not spared by the migrants at Cologne railway station and in other German cities, as gangs of up to 40 men moved to attack at once in the early hours of new year’s day. Michelle, an    German woman, was walking to the station at   on new year’s eve with a group of friends when they were attacked.   reports her words: “We were eleven people on the go. At eleven o’clock we were at the main station and walked to the Rhine in order there to watch the fireworks. Even then we already noticed many men. “We were at the cathedral and from there walked to the Ludwig Museum and passed down to the Rhine. There were suddenly 20 to 30 men who surrounded us, and more and more came. ” The men then moved in and, despite their screaming out, began to molest the group of girls. Getting through their thick winter clothes, the girls told the television station about being touched on the legs, back, buttocks, and upper body. She said they protested, but the men didn’t appear to understand German. “They were all foreigners,” said Michelle. In tears after their ordeal, the girls later realised after their escape that they had been stripped of their mobile phones, purses, cigarettes, and electronics. They were unable to find a police officer to report the incident to. German newspaper Bild reports the testimonies of other young victims. Using pseudonyms to protect the idenities of the young women involved, the paper reports the words of    Annika who said of her   trip to Cologne: “It was scary. Mainly because a nobody helped. I feel so dirty. So used. ” “They all looked foreign. They managed to separate us in the crowd and got close to us  …     we tried to fight off their hands  …    . everywhere I looked I saw girls crying and being comforted,” she said. Annika also added that her friends’ purses had all been rifled during the ordeal and when she found a police officer later to report the assault, he just told her to go to a police station. Another young woman,    Anne who was waiting tables at a night club, said she went outside for fresh air during a break in her shift and was attacked by a group of Arab men. They pulled her dress and tore her panties off before running away. One man spoke of his experience as he was walking up the road with his    girlfriend. Unable to protect her as they were absorbed in an “artificial stampede” of “young,   men,” his girlfriend was “attacked in the crotch. ” He dragged her to a nearby nightclub to seek refuge. Two other unnamed women suffered a worse fate  —   both   . While out partying together, one of them had every item of clothing torn from her body and the other was “abused with fingers. ” Breitbart London reported on Monday of the story of Katja L, the first woman to come forward to tell her story and precipitate the media attention that has finally reached the attacks, which remained buried for days after the event. She said: “When we came out of the station, we were very surprised by the group that met us there,” before confirming that the group was “exclusively young foreign men. ” “We then walked through this group of men. There was an alley through [the men] which we walked through. Suddenly I felt a hand on my buttocks, then on my breasts in the end, I was groped everywhere. It was a nightmare. Although we shouted and beat them, the guys did not stop. I was desperate and think I was touched around 100 times in the 200 meters. “Fortunately I wore a jacket and trousers. a skirt would probably have been torn away from me. ” Cologne police announced they had made three arrests this morning in relation to the attacks, but just an hour later withdrew their statement saying it had been in error, and in fact they only had “suspects” at this time.  