A woman who fled from Iran 29 years ago has been labelled a “Nazi” by leftists after she condemned the migrant crime in Cologne on New Year’s Eve. [Emitis Pohl fled state persecution from the Iranian government and has become a successful business woman in Germany. Outraged by the acts of sexual violence in Cologne on New Year’s Eve, she took to social media to tell the world the migrants involved needed to be harshly punished. The backlash from leftists amazed her as they called her everything form a supporter of the   immigration Alternative for Germany (AfD) to an outright Nazi.  Ms. Pohl has since deleted the comments from her Facebook profile but took screen shots of the posts to remind people of the taboo on talking negatively about migrants extends even to people who have escaped despotic regimes. “I am an immigrant and I’m called an AfD supporter and a Nazi, that’s a joke,” she told Die Welt. Pohl came to Germany as a    child escaping the extremely bloody   conflict of the 1980s which saw up to half a million Iranians and an equal number of Iraqis die over the course of the 8 year conflict between  . She came to Germany to stay with her grandmother who fled persecution after the 1979 Islamic revolution. The now    advertising director said she could understand and empathize with people fleeing war saying, “I have great compassion for them, because I’ve been through that,” but had no sympathy for migrants who claim asylum and commit crimes. She told a German talk show, “migrant offenders must be expelled and deported, there’s no way around it,” or alternatively, “let in no more migrants. ” Like many other women in Germany she said she is now fearful of going out at night to places like train stations where many migrant men gather. She stressed that she didn’t view the migrants any differently than she would if native Germans had committed the crimes saying that she viewed them as simply criminals regardless of their origin. “It makes me really sad that I have to worry in a country like Germany, damn it. I do not live in Afghanistan or Iran. I live in a free country, and I want myself as a woman to feel safe and free to go anywhere,” she said. Worried also about her two young daughters, she said she has bought them and herself canisters of pepper spray to carry around when they walk out at night. While wanting her eldest    daughter to have independence she recognizes that she must also now unfortunately consider her safety first. Integration, says Pohl, is essential to anyone who migrates to Germany. She mentions how she would stay up late at night and attend evening classes to learn German as a child and that she was more than happy to personally adapt to German values and customs. Only in Germany she says, “I was able to finish school, study, have a career. That would never be possible in Iran. I have integrated myself, I have internalized the (German) values. ” Pohl is not the first migrant to speak out against the wave of Muslim migrant men committing crimes. Breitbart London previously reported that many former migrants and residents of Germany are starting to support parties like AfD as they recognize the attitudes and values in the new arrivals is what they fled from in the first place.