Singer John Legend is apparently already feeling nostalgic about Barack Obama’s presidency, portraying the last eight years as a “ ” era the American people will surely miss. [“I think people are already missing the way the Obamas conducted themselves in office,” the “Darkness and Light” singer said in an interview for the winter cover story of Jocks  Nerds.  “Particularly when you compare them, especially with Trump and how tawdry so much of the campaign has been,” Legend continued. “I think people are appreciating how   his Presidency has been. ” The   artist says the Obama years have been a boon for families who’ve seen their incomes rise. “Combine that with the fact the economy is doing much better than it was before he came into office,” he said. “Unemployment’s down, incomes are rising. I think all in all, people are realising he did a pretty great job. ” Of course, the nation’s unemployment rate only tells a fraction of the story of its overall economic health, and can often be misleading. As Breitbart News has reported, Obama’s presidency has yielded record low growth. Asked about his thoughts on Black Lives Matter, Legend, who is an avid supporter of the social justice group, said, “It’s been a challenge for Obama, because he represents the State, and he represents law enforcement, and he represents the Justice Department, so the folks that are protesting are protesting that apparatus. But I think he understands where those protests are coming from. But he still has to represent the Government. ” Apart from singing and social activism, Legend has spent the last few years expanding his role in Hollywood. He produced this year’s film Southside With You, a biopic about Barack and Michelle Obama’s first date in Chicago, which opened to critical acclaim but middling box office. “I think now was a great time [for Southside With You] because a lot of people are feeling pretty nostalgic about the first couple and how historically significant they are given that he was the first black President, she was the first black First Lady, but also how graceful and elegant and strong they have been as leaders of the country over the last eight years,” Legend said about the film, which was produced by his Get Lifted Film Company. Legend also holds a producer credit for the critically acclaimed slave drama TV series Underground.  The    singer says he’s interested in making films that focus on “issues I care about politically. ” “I’d gotten involved with a lot of films as songwriter but when I started my company it was a process that involved finding the right directors, finding the right cast, telling the right stories,” he said. “And I think a lot of that comes from my own political sensibilities. A lot of the work we’ve been doing reflects a lot of the issues I care about politically. But also there’s simply my love of great storytelling and my love of great music in relation to telling those stories. ”   Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter @jeromeehudson