  Latinos For Trump founder Marco Gutierrez tells MSNBC that mass immigration will change the U. S. saying if it’s not stopped, “you’re going to have taco trucks on every corner. ”[Donald Trump’s speech outlining his ten   for curbing illegal immigration and reshaping immigration policy meant “immigrant populations  …     are living on borrowed time,” MSNBC host   Reid said at the beginning of the segment, failing to distinguish between illegal aliens and lawful migrant workers.  “You recall that autopsy in 2012, when Republicans spent a lot of money on research to decide they could not afford to do as poorly with Hispanic voters as Mitt Romney did,” Reid said. “Do you feel that Donald Trump, regardless of whether or not you are still on his team, is hurting the Republican Party’s ability to win the election and   to grow its numbers among Hispanics?” “No, I don’t think so. My friends, we stand with Donald Trump,” Gutierrez said. “There [are] a lot of Hispanics that are in the closet because of the violent criticism of the Left. But they support Donald Trump. ” “But you think  —   put your friends aside,” Reid said. “Polling shows Donald Trump is doing even worse with Hispanics. This is before last night’s speech. He was only about 22 percent  —   Romney lost by five million votes at 27 percent, so forgetting your friends aside, it seems overall Hispanics are rejecting Donald Trump in huge numbers, can you refute that?” “Yes, because the polls are done through blocs. You have born citizens here, and then you have me. I was born and raised in Mexico. My section is more against Donald Trump because of the relationship they have with the unlawful immigrant, illegal or undocumented, however you want to call it, but you have the   that more in the   percent,” Gutierrez said. Reid cut him off with a   sentence. “That’s actually no  —   I mean, you have to present some sort of a name of a poll, because there’s actually numbers or research to support what you just said you just gave us a number out of whole cloth  …     [T]here is no data to show that some 40 percent of Latinos are for Trump,” she snapped. “Sorry, it just doesn’t exist. ” It’s possible Gutierrez was referring to a Gravis Marketing poll for Breitbart News conducted in August that showed among registered Latino voters in New York, Trump’s support stood at 40 percent, but Reid did not let him finish speaking. Reid later asked Gutierrez if the GOP was facing a “Barry Goldwater moment” for championing a patriotic immigration message. “Donald Trump’s a genius at delivering a message, and yes, it was a tough message to deliver, but he did it in a way that’s showing us that we have a problem,” he said. “The needs of the many outweigh the needs of a few, and different times, different problems. ” “We need to understand this is a different time and we’re having problems here,” he added. “What problems?” asked Reid. “What problems are you talking about?” “My culture is a very dominant culture. And it’s imposing, and it’s causing problems,” Gutierrez said firmly. “If you don’t do something about it, you’re going to have taco trucks on every corner. ” Reid immediately cut him off again. “Wait a minute! Wait a minute! Wait a minute  …     I don’t even know what that means and I’m almost afraid to ask. ” “I’ll tell you what that means. The Spanish never conquered Mexico. We are a culture that  —   we have a lot of good things that we bring to the United States. But we also have problems,” he continued. “And you guys are going nuts over something  —   [there are] ten steps to this problem, and you guys are already talking about the tenth step, and we haven’t even started walking this path. ” Trump had declared on Wednesday: “Anyone who has entered the United States illegally is subject to deportation  —   that is what it means to have laws and to have a country. ” Gutierrez’s remarks sparked widespread media hysteria, along with the humorous trending Twitter hashtag, #TacoTrucksOnEveryCorner. WATCH: Reid also attacked a member of Trump’s National Hispanic Advisory Council, Steve Cortes, on Thursday for referring to illegal aliens as “illegals. ” The preferred progressive misnomer is “undocumented immigrants,” which excuses and covers up the massive identity theft in which illegal aliens engage. “You are Hispanic, Steve. Are you comfortable with that term, ‘illegals?’ That is a pejorative to a lot of people. Why do you use that term?” Reid said. “Words matter,” Cortes replied. “[I]f you do something that is against the law, it’s illegal. If you go into a store and you shoplift, you’re not an undocumented holder of a good, you’re a thief. If you come to the United States against the immigration laws of the United States, you’re not undocumented, you’re illegal. ”