HANOI, Vietnam  —   President Obama arrived in the steamy capital of Vietnam ahead of schedule on Sunday night to begin three days of meetings in hopes of luring yet another Southeast Asian country away from China’s tight embrace. He was greeted on the tarmac by a young woman in a long yellow dress who handed him a bouquet of flowers. Several   Vietnamese officials shook the president’s hand before he climbed into his limousine for a quick trip to his hotel after nearly 24 hours of travel. Quiet clusters of people on the dark streets watched his motorcade pass. Except for the small groups, the streets seemed to have been completely cleared. Since Air Force One had been scheduled to land after midnight, or about three hours later, the official arrival ceremony with high officials in attendance was postponed until Monday morning. Maybe then Mr. Obama will see the kind of emotional outpouring that greeted President Bill Clinton in 2000, when he became the first United States president to visit the country since the Vietnam War. But it is possible that relations between the two countries have reached a stage that the arrival of an American head of state no longer seems so unusual. Mr. Obama will meet with the country’s newly installed prime minister and president on Monday, then get together with the country’s real power  —   Nguyen Phu Trong, the general secretary of the Communist Party. Mr. Obama’s visit is an important step in a complex dance that Vietnam has carried on with China for centuries. Most of Vietnam’s illustrious historical figures made their reputations by battling Chinese invaders. The population here is deeply nationalistic and   sentiment is visceral. The American War, as it is known here, is mostly forgotten, particularly since half of the population is under 30. Vietnam relies on China for trade, investment and even the water that feeds the vast Mekong Delta, so the leadership knows it can poke the dragon only so much. Indeed, Vietnam had mostly sought to appease China since a brief and bloody war between the countries in 1979, and had shrugged off a series of provocations as China sought in recent years to assert its dominance over the South China Sea, which extends the length of Vietnam’s   coast. But in 2014, China placed a giant   drilling rig to explore for oil and gas right off the Vietnamese coast, and Mr. Trong could not even get his telephone calls to Beijing returned. The confrontation touched off angry protests in Vietnam that led to the deaths of two Chinese and the destruction of Taiwanese and South Korean factories. Since then, Vietnam has stepped up its contacts with the United States. Neither the United States nor Vietnam is ready for a formal alliance, but Vietnam may grant American warships access to its ports, and Washington seems certain at least to widen exceptions to its longtime arms embargo and may end it altogether. Human rights remain a barrier to closer ties.   thugs routinely attack dissidents, and recent protests over a toxic spill that killed vast numbers of fish led to beatings and arrests by the police. While the country does have elections  —   polling places were packed Sunday for a parliamentary election  —   candidates must be approved by the Communist Party. Mr. Obama plans to meet with some dissidents and civil society leaders on Tuesday before making a speech. Brad Adams, the Asia director at Human Rights Watch, suggested that the president “should start by calling for the right of all people to stand for election, voice critical views of government, associate with others and freely choose candidates. ” American help in reforming Vietnam’s economy is also high on the agenda for leaders of both countries. While Vietnam has grown robustly  —   the transformation of this city’s airport and skyline over the past two decades is astonishing  —   the country remains saddled with a bloated state sector that dominates telecommunications and other crucial parts of the economy, and reliance on   manufacturing that will be increasingly difficult to sustain as the country prospers. Widespread corruption undermines economic growth government officials with modest salaries can be seen touring the countryside in expensive European automobiles. There are keen hopes here that the   Partnership, a trade agreement with the United States and 10 other countries, will provide a huge boost. The World Bank estimated that Vietnam would gain the most from the agreement, adding 10 percent to its economic growth by 2030 through increased sales from its textiles and apparel industries. Vietnam is the only developing country in the   pact, and it had to make major concessions on issues like allowing independent labor unions and ensuring environmental compliance. “Vietnam has agreed to allow independent unions that can control their own finances, elect their own leaders, conduct strikes, affiliate as they wish, get assistance from outside labor organizations,” the United States trade representative, Michael Froman, said in a briefing. There is some debate about whether the promised changes are transformational or just cosmetic, but the government took a risk in promising to make them and is now dismayed to see that the pact has little chance of passing Congress anytime soon. Still, innovation incubators, technology   and a focus on small and   companies are now all the rage among development agencies and government officials. Mr. Obama intends to address attendees at an entrepreneurship event on Tuesday afternoon in Ho Chi Minh City.