Actress Lena Dunham will apparently remain in the United States following Donald Trump’s historic presidential election victory this week. [In April, the    Girls actress said that there was a “100 percent” chance that she would move to Canada if Trump were elected president: “I love Canada. I think that it’s a great place, and there’s an area in Vancouver that I find beautiful and appealing, and I can conduct business from there,” she told Andy Cohen at the 2016 Matrix Awards, joining numerous other celebrities who have made similar pledges in recent months.  Dunham has apparently faced calls from social media users to keep her promise, as the actress responded in a fiery post to her Instagram account on Friday morning. “For those demanding I move to Canada based on something I said when this man seemed like a steak salesman with a long shot at the presidency: stay busy reveling in your new regime,” Dunham captioned a post featuring artwork from the Dr. Seuss children’s book Oh, the Places You’ll Go.  “I will go many places in my lifetime, surrounded by kindreds on a mission to spread justice and light,” the actress added, apparently avoiding the question of whether she would commit to keeping her promise to move out of the country. “I can’t wait for all of this, and for the change to come, as we use what we’ve been given to protect those who can’t protect themselves. What are you living for?”  And for those demanding I move to Canada based on something I said when this man seemed like a steak salesman with a long shot at the presidency: stay busy reveling in your new regime. I will go many places during my lifetime, surrounded by kindreds on a mission to spread justice and light. I can’t wait for all of of this, and for the change to come, as we use what we’ve been given to protect those who can’t protect themselves. What are you living for? A photo posted by Lena Dunham (@lenadunham) on Nov 11, 2016 at 9:03am PST,  While Dunham did not explicitly say she wouldn’t be leaving the counry, the actress isn’t the only celebrity to reexamine their promise to move if Trump were elected. On Wednesday, Dunham’s friend and fellow actress Amy Schumer wrote on Instagram that her promise to “move to Spain or somewhere” else if Trump won was said “in jest. ” There are, however, at least a dozen other celebrities who have not yet made a decision on whether or not they’ll be moving.   Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson