Rep. Darrell Issa ( ) the former chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, told Breitbart News that a “tainted Justice Department” cannot be trusted to investigate the email scandal swirling around former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. [Issa’s comments come in the wake of Attorney General Loretta Lynch’s secret Phoenix airport meeting with former President Bill Clinton amid a cloud of suspicion surrounding the FBI investigation into Hillary Clinton’s apparently illegal private email server. Issa says the only way to achieve real justice now is for the voters to reject Hillary Clinton  —   the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee  —   in November.  “It is too late for any   individual to conclude that we can trust either the Obama White House or its tainted Justice Department to investigate this serious matter openly, honestly, or appropriately,” Issa said in an email. “The latest revelations about Attorney General Lynch only confirm this unfortunate but inescapable conclusion. At this point, only one entity can truly render a timely verdict in this matter: The American people. ” Issa says the voters will get to decide whether Hillary Clinton’s “illegal email practices”  —   of which reportedly a whopping 147 FBI agents are investigating after she potentially compromised the identities of covert U. S. agents around the world  —   deserve to see justice or not. “In November, the people will stand in judgment of Hillary Clinton’s illegal email practices and serial attempts to destroy evidence and cover up the embarrassing details of her wrongdoing,” Issa told Breitbart News. “I believe they should weigh the evidence and solemnly determine if anything goes in Washington, or we uphold our uniquely American measure of public accountability. The system has failed the people. Now, they will determine the appropriate response. ” These new comments take what Issa said during a radio appearance on Breitbart News Saturday on SiriusXM Patriot Channel 125 last weekend even further. Issa said during that show that there is currently enough evidence to indict Hillary Clinton on the email scandal. Issa has a forthcoming book titled Watchdog that will be available on July 11. Issa, during his time as chairman of the Oversight Committee, was relentless in his battles with now former Attorney General Eric Holder over the Operation Fast and Furious scandal. Holder’s refusal to cooperate with Issa’s investigation into the scandal that saw federal agents walk guns into Mexico only to see those guns be used by criminals to murder hundreds of Mexican civilians and U. S. Border Patrol agent Brian Terry led to Issa and House Republicans holding Holder in both civil and criminal contempt of Congress. Holder remains the only   official in history held in contempt of Congress, and eventually resigned his post only to be replaced by Lynch.