Four Guatemala nationals who are in the U. S. illegally are accused of brutally   a woman and beating her boyfriend in Massachusetts. [Federal Immigration officers are requesting   detainers on all four illegals. According to Customs Enforcement spokesman Shawn Neudauer, at least two of the suspects had been deported previously.  Police report that brothers Elmer Diaz, 19, Arial Diaz, 24, and Adan Diaz, 32 and accomplice Marlon Josue   27, were arrested and charged with the brutal attacks. They faces charges including rape, assault with a dangerous weapon, assault and battery, kidnapping, witness intimidation and other charges. Ariel Diaz has a record of violations such as drunk driving, driving without a license, and driving without insurance, disorderly conduct, and other charges. Additionally   had been deported back to Guatemala as late as April of 2014. Since 2010, President Barack Obama has sharply reduced immigration enforcement, and has allowed more than 200, 000 people from Central America to cross the border and to seek residency. The four were arrested after the attacks on a couple they were out for a walk in their neighborhood. According to the police report, as the four approached the couple, one of the illegals pulled out a condom and motioned toward the woman. She was then grabbed by the hood of her jacket and slammed to the ground while two others started beating the woman’s boyfriend. The woman was dragged into a nearby apartment where several began to sexually molest her. The woman’s boyfriend followed them, forced his way into the apartment and called 911. Police say he was then attacked again. At one point Ariel Diaz came at the man with a chef’s kitchen knife. The victim was able to wrest the knife away avoiding being stabbed in the process. Eventually the male victim was able to fight off the attackers and help free his girlfriend. The two exited the apartment building and flagged down police. Officers then arrested the four men finding some of the couples’ belongings in the apartment. “I thought we were going to die. I really did. And I didn’t care if I died as long as I could save her and get her out of there, that’s all I cared about,” the male victim told the Boston Herald. “I’ve lived here my whole life and I never imagined anything like this could happen just walking down the street,” he added. “The worst part was I felt like I couldn’t do anything. ” The victim noted that his girlfriend is traumatized and has yet to come to terms with her assault. All four of the illegals have pleaded not guilty but are being held pending a determination on how dangerous they are to the community before being released. ICE officials say that they have no record of being alerted by local police after any of the suspects were arrested for past offenses. Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston or email the author at igcolonel@hotmail. com