Las Vegas  —   Speaking in a Breitbart News video exclusive interview, Leslie Millwee, the former local television news reporter from Arkansas who claims she was sexually assaulted by Bill Clinton in 1980, is urging other potential sexual assault victims of the former president to go public. [Watch the video here:     “I encourage anyone else that went through a similar situation that I did to come forward because these people need to be held accountable for their behavior,” Millwee stated. Millwee was asked by this reporter whether she is afraid now that she has gone public. She replied: “I’m afraid because I know the moral compass and the lack of integrity that I feel the Clintons have. I think there’s been no accountability by the media for many of the illegal things that they have done. No one seems to hold them accountable for their behavior. And am I afraid they will try to do something to me? Of course I am. But I’m also willing at this point. This needs to be said  …     “And Hillary is just as culpable as he is in the fact that she helped him cover this up for all those years and harass the women that were raped victims and victims of sexual harassment. So, am I afraid? A little bit. But I am more afraid not to tell the truth and not to bring this to light. ” Millwee told her story for the first time in a Breitbart News exclusive interview published on Wednesday. She claims she was assaulted by Clinton on three separate occasions in 1980. Millwee says that on two of the alleged occasions, Clinton groped her in a small, isolated television editing room while he rubbed himself against her and reached climax. After these alleged sexual assaults, Millwee claims, Clinton showed up at her apartment and knocked on her door for several minutes while trying to talk his way inside.  She says that Clinton departed after she purportedly refused to respond.  Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio. ” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.