Former British Conservative Party Member of Parliament and “right wing” blogger Louise Mensch privately tried to assist the Hillary Clinton campaign, emails published by Wikileaks reveal. [Mrs. Mensch runs the Rupert   blog Heat Street, which claims to stand against identity politics and what it labels “social justice warriors” under the slogan “no safe spaces. ”  However, its editor in chief, Mrs. Mensch, was caught writing a campaign script for the Democratic candidate  —   a woman who has traded off identity politics and social justice warrior politics. The ad appears to be based on the idea that Mrs. Clinton should be in office simply because she is female and is supported by “multiracial” women. “  …     much rather have your girl Hillary,” Mrs. Mensch wrote in an email to Michael Kives of Creative Arts Agency (CAA) a former Clinton campaign advocate. She said Hillary’s “intelligence [is] beyond doubt” but argued she “is not capitalizing on the yearning that we have to see a woman as President,” before scripting the campaign ad named “OUR TIME. ” A succession of mostly young women, a few old women, one with a baby daughter, multiracial and   to include a nurse and a woman in uniform of some kind where permitted  …     one after the other, smiling and looking to camera and saying ‘It’s our time.’ and the last woman says, ‘It’s our time. I’m with her.’ fade to banner credit ‘Hillary 2016’ “That would be inspirational, aspirational, and the kind of riff you really need on ‘Yes we can’,” concluded Mrs. Mensch. Her   was forwarded by Mr. Kives to the Hillary Clinton campaign, as well campaign chairman John Podesta. Mrs. Mensch’s   initiates a conversation with Mr. Kives by drawing on her friendship with someone called “Arnold,” believed to be former California governor and movie star Arnold Schwarzenegger. In the email, Mrs. Mensch also claims to be “a committed Republican” but has been campaigning against Republican nominee Donald Trump for some time, frequently employing the hashtag #NeverTrump. She has publicly claimed to back independent Republican Evan McMullin, although in July she tweeted “It’s Our Time Now” with a picture of Hillary Clinton with the words “Yes She Can” over it. Since the Wikileaks revelation today, she has begun frequently tweeting the hashtags #RepublicansForHillary and #ImWithHer. Sisters #YesSheCanIt’s Our Time Now#ImWithHer #DemsInPhilly #MadamPresident #Hillary pic. twitter.   —   Louise Mensch (@LouiseMensch) July 29, 2016,  “I was open, passionate #RepublicansForHillary until a real conservative @Evan_McMullin entered race and gave us a choice,” she claimed on Twitter today. She has also threatened to sue Wikileaks founder Julian Assange on the social media site, claiming the leaked email constitutes a “U. K. criminal offence against me in public. ” This is so great. Another woman a victim of criminality by Julian #Assange and I certainly will file a criminal complaint tomorrow :)  —   Louise Mensch (@LouiseMensch) October 12, 2016,  Mrs. Mensch, previously Louise Bagshawe, quit the British Parliament after marrying Peter Mensch, a   rock band agent. She drew criticism after triggering a   the Corby seat, and has since been living in Manhattan, New York. Murdoch’s News Corp has not yet responded to a request for comment. 