WASHINGTON, D. C.  —   Huma Abedin told the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) that she did not know that Hillary Clinton used a private email server until after she stopped working at the State Department. [But according to former Bill Clinton adviser Justin Cooper, whose recollections are cited in the bombshell FBI investigation notes dumped Friday, Abedin was actually the one who came up with the idea for Clinton to go to great lengths to set up a   private server.  As noted by Paul Ryan adviser Michael Shapiro, Abedin hadher own clintonemail. com account, so how could she have possibly been in the dark about what was going on? HUMA ABEDIN, who had a https:  .  address, claims she was unaware of the private server. ⇩⇩ pic. twitter.   —   Michael Shapiro (@mis2127) September 2, 2016,  Why did Abedin fail to tell the truth to investigators  —   potentially opening herself up to an obstruction of justice charge  —   after it was already a matter of public record that she knew about the private email server? Abedin said under oath in the Judicial Watch civil case that Hillary Clinton used a private server to prevent personal emails from being accessible to Congress and other officials, acknowledging that she knew about the rogue    server system. Breitbart reported: Clinton received a routine message from a State Department computer staffer who clearly didn’t know that HDR22@clintonemail. com was the Secretary’s email address The message had told Clinton that some of the HDR22 messages were being flagged with “fatal errors. ” Clinton forwarded the message to Abedin, asking what was going on. “Ur email must be back up! !,” Abedin said excitedly. “What happened is judith sent you an email. It bounced back. She called the email help desk at state (I guess assuming u had state email) and told them that. They had no idea it was YOU, just some random address so they emailed. Sorry about that. But regardless, means ur email must be back! R u getting other messages?” “I’ve gotten some messages from yesterday  —   how about you?” Clinton replied. “Nothing,” replied Abedin on her State Department account.