Once there were just nomads, their wanderings no more than necessary for survival. But then came the stockades their successors built and the    settlements in which they huddled  —   and suddenly travel changed, becoming what for most would henceforth be a pursuit more elective than essential. There were many motives for it. Sheer curiosity  —   what’s beyond the fence?  —   came first. Then a need to trade, to inhabit, to conquer, to preach, to take part in a pilgrimage, to migrate and settle anew, to wage a war or to seek refuge. These and any of a thousand other proddings of the sharp stick would send travelers out on the road. Before long, humankind had been whipped into a frenzy of wandering, one that has never let up. And nowadays, with technology and low cost combining to create a perfect storm of wanderlust, we see the results: the vast Lunar New Year crowds at a Chinese railway station, the lethal scrums at the hajj in Mecca, the endless security lines at Heathrow and Kennedy and Sheremetyevo, all vivid testimony to the unanticipated backwash of our pathological desire for ceaseless mobility. And yet just why, fretted Blaise Pascal back in the 17th century, when all of this seemed to get going, why the urge to engage in so much movement? Why all this transnational Brownian motion? Surely all of man’s ills must stem, the philosopher wrote, from his simple inability to remain quiet and alone, serenely in the comfort of his own home. When confronted with this season’s tottering tower of new travel literature, I found it easy to sympathize with poor Pascal. Well over 40 books arrived on my desk, ranging widely in their geographical reach, but most nonetheless possessed of a certain predictability  —   an urgent need to escape here, a frantic need to impress there, a pressing need to inquire and explore and explain what goes on in the faraway. Only a handful could possibly be chosen for a closer look. A small sampling of those that, with profound regret, had to be left by the wayside, may indicate the scale and manic scope of this tarantella of travel writing: A former cult member tries to bicycle around the world. A man with an appetite for fish walks the coast of India, sampling as he goes. A Canadian waitress who swears like a fishwife goes on holiday to Boracay. A man walks, illegally, along the Keystone XL pipeline. Sixteen schoolboys canoe their way from Montreal to the mouth of the Mississippi. An Englishman visits all of the Central Asian “stans”  —   except the most interesting one, Turkmenistan, with its revolving statue of the former president and an ice rink built in the desert. An expatriate Briton writes admiringly about Holland. A Hungarian writes similarly about China. Someone writes a sentence that includes the words “the atopic character of literary space” and supposes it will appeal to a reviewer of travel books. An oenophile goes in search of the finest wines grown in Georgia, not here but in the Caucasus. A Floridian who has visited more than 60 countries tells us about himself. A radio reporter immerses herself in the dubious delights of the Russian city of Chelyabinsk. In the end, I sifted what I thought might be some pearls from the sand. And there’s an irony in my first choice, one Pascal would like, since Philip Marsden’s RISING GROUND: A Search for the Spirit of Place (University of Chicago, $27. 50) doesn’t require the author to venture very far from his home in Cornwall, yielding a travel book that involves little real, physical travel. And yet Marsden’s essays about landscape and history and the habitations and habitants of that mysterious, familiar but deeply unknown fingerlike peninsula at England’s lower   seagirt end are deft and exquisite, filled with the learning of a supremely   man and composed in a lilting, finely chased prose. I immersed myself for hours in the comforting blanket of this book, lulled into fond memories of my own. My very first job as a reporter, based in the gritty   mining northeast of England, once required me to visit Cornwall, but there was no budget and I had to hitchhike and camp out on Bodmin Moor. In a cafe near Liskeard, I met a wandering American student of quite astonishing beauty, and she spent an evening with me under one of the granite tors, a place called the Cheesewring. She cooked for me and played Joni Mitchell songs on her guitar. And then, for fun, she tried to balance a pile of small stones on the grass, intending to echo those that had been piled by nature on the tor. Almost half a century later, Marsden observes a woman at the very same place. She “picked a flattish stone and added it to one of the   cairns, the   that had been put up by recent visitors. The stone kept falling off and she bent down close to position it. Very gently she released her finger and thumb. She held them there for a moment. This time the stone was still. ” If deep and   erudition defines Marsden’s book, learning and assimilated high culture  similarly mark out Andrew Dickson’s wonderfully imaginative WORLDS ELSEWHERE: Journeys Around Shakespeare’s Globe (Holt, $35) which appropriately appears around the 400th anniversary of William Shakespeare’s death. For this, unlike most of the   literary reassessments produced to mark the moment, demands of Dickson many thousands of miles of hard slogging as he seeks to inquire into the playwright’s appeal around the world and to discover the plays being performed with often wild and eccentric enthusiasm in the most improbable places. China is perhaps one of the more predictably bardolatrous countries Dickson visits, where young Chinese (they and their elders raised on the Lambs’ “Tales,” still hugely popular more than a century after they appeared in translation) have become in recent years among the most numerous and raucous fans of the man officially known as Shashibiya. Dickson reminds us that when Wen Jiabao, then China’s premier, came to England in 2011, he flew first to a small airport outside Birmingham and hared off to Stratford to pay homage. He left behind as a gift an edition of “Love’s Labour’s Lost” rendered into putonghua and wrote an elegantly calligraphed paean, “He brings sunshine to your life,’ ’u2009Gives your dreams wings to fly”  —   which, though more Elton John than Li Bai, does suggest a certain fondness. And given that Marx revered Shakespeare, it was for much of China’s recent history an officially approved fondness. So Dickson treks around to experience Shakespeare with Chinese characteristics  —   notably watching an    “Coriolanus” being performed in Beijing, with two local   bands called Suffocated and Miserable Faith playing a noisy continuo. In Shanghai, he meets a once and now again famous Shakespearean actor, Jiao Huang, and watches him weep as he explains why he had not been on the stage for nine years during the 1960s. It was, of course, the time of the Cultural Revolution. “If you were passionate about Western plays, you would be so severely criticized that you couldn’t lift your head. . ’u2008. ’u2008. I lived in a cowshed. I experienced everything. My house was destroyed. ” Such an encounter, which amply repays the price of admission, also transmutes a Shakespeare book (in which Dickson also ventures to Nevada City, Munich, Durban, Kolkata and Gdansk, among other cities) into a true travel book, of the best kind. Of a more traditional kind is WALKING THE NILE (Atlantic Monthly, $26) by Levison Wood. I mean no disrespect for the behatted, bandannaed and   Wood, who was bred by all appearances out of Bear Grylls by Sir Ranulph Fiennes, when I note that, like all too many of the newly empireless British, he has a perverse liking for   epic stunts  —   his other travel book, WALKING THE HIMALAYAS (Little, Brown, $27) comes out almost simultaneously. What elevates this perfectly reasonable   northbound wander through Africa, from the trickle of the river’s source in Rwanda to where it debouches by the grubby gravel of an Egyptian beach, is how Wood deals with the very lowest point of the trip, when one of his party falls desperately ill and dies. He was Matthew Power, a young man from Vermont who had made something of a name for himself as an  adventuresome reporter. Men’s Journal had commissioned him to meet up with Levison Wood (“Captain Wood, I presume?” clearly had to be his first words when they joined forces in the scorching uplands of Uganda) and to walk with him toward South Sudan.   looking yet unused to the extreme heat, Power never made it: “I found Matt hunkered down in the elephant grass,” a plainly frightened Wood writes. “He was sipping from the water pack attached to his rucksack, through a thin tube. There was something almost ghostly about his face: pale, white and flushed red in equal measure. ‘Are you O. K. Matt? ’’u200a” He was dying of hyperthermia. Wood knew the symptoms, had seen them before in Afghanistan. He got out his satellite phone and called  —   for medical advice, for a helicopter, for help. Gunshots were fired in the air. But no one came. One of his companions lit a fire to create a landing zone for a chopper, but lit it in the wrong place, and the   flames swept toward the party and their   charge. They tried to carry him out, but he stopped breathing, his pulse vanished. They took his   body to the top of a hill, wrapped him in a tarp and whispered a prayer. And then, the next day, after the rangers had come and the formalities had been completed in the closest town, Power’s photographer picked up his cellphone and dialed the New York number of Power’s wife. And told her the terrible news about her husband’s death, about what happened to the man who had come out to Africa, as Wood puts it, “so that he could write about me on my indulgent, pointless, selfish trek. ” I was near tears when I read that passage. It cast a shadow over the adventure, from which neither the adventure nor the book’s eventual account ever really recovered. I confess I had an instinctive initial dislike of what seemed to be a truly indulgent, pointless and selfish trek undertaken by a troubled young woman from Texas named Clara Bensen, whose NO BAGGAGE: A Minimalist Tale of Love and Wandering (Running Press, $25) recounts her   adventure traveling from Istanbul to London, quite deliberately baggageless. She had little more than an   cotton sundress, a slim leather purse holding three pairs of underwear, her iPhone and iPad Mini, a pen and notebook and a toothbrush  —   and a    boyfriend named Jeff, whom she had met on the dating site OkCupid and about whom she knew very little, other than that he taught environmental science at a college in Brownsville and had a young daughter, who would stay home with her mother. (Baggage there, of course. Half the point of the book.) Near the start of what turned out to be an absorbing and   tale, Bensen refers to Baudelaire’s admiration for the life of the flâneur, citing the “immense joy” of being able “to be away from home and yet to feel oneself everywhere at home to see the world, to be at the center of the world, and yet to remain hidden from the world. ” And with gusto, courage and a palpable sense of joy, so Bensen goes on to enjoy her brief wander through the southeastern corner of Europe, as far away from Texan certainty as her budget allowed her to go. We learn perhaps a little too much about her feminine plumbing crises en route and the history of her various   mental troubles back home among her evangelically minded family. But she arrives back in Texas with her relationship with Jeff intact and her eyes widened to the wondrous realities of the world. I was happy for her, and I hope she travels once more, returning with another   notebook. Finally, and by deliberate sartorial contrast, there is Rush Loving Jr. ’s THE   HOBO: The Many Wondrous Adventures of a Man Who Loves Trains (Indiana University, $35) which has all too many pictures of the   looking men in business suits who ran, for good or for ill, some of the various railroads with which this former Fortune editor is acquainted. Loving loves trains  —   indeed, some years ago he wrote a book with a title professing just that  —   and he has a stiffly mannered  approach to the delights of   passage, the kind that made E. M. Frimbo so beloved a character of the old New Yorker. His is by no means a good book  —   neither a good bad book nor a bad good book. But for those few of us who are attracted to a sentence that begins, “Then the Golden Arrow took off over the flatlands of the Midwest, highballing for Chicago, passing Crestline at 12:44, Fort Wayne at 2:02 and Valparaiso at 3:54,” it is an essential book. And how much nicer a sentence that is than all that   piffle about the atopic character of literary space, an indigestible confection that deserves to be tossed from one of Loving’s trains, to languish by the wayside forever. But Wait. There’s More. No need for sleuthing. The books mentioned at the top of this essay are: THIS ROAD I RIDE, by Juliana Buhring (Norton, $26. 95) FOLLOWING FISH, by Samanth Subramanian (Thomas  . Martin’s, $25. 99) IT’S ONLY THE HIMALAYAS, by S. Bedford (Brindle  Glass, $15. 95) TRESPASSING ACROSS AMERICA, by Ken Ilgunas (Blue Rider, $27) THE LAST VOYAGEURS, by Lorraine Boissoneault (Pegasus, $27. 95) POSTCARDS FROM STANLAND, by David H. Mould (Ohio University, $24. 95) WHY THE DUTCH ARE DIFFERENT, by Ben Coates (Nicholas Brealey, $19. 95) DESTRUCTION AND SORROW BENEATH THE HEAVENS, by Laszlo Krasznahorkai (University of Chicago, $30) HOW TO TALK ABOUT PLACES YOU’VE NEVER BEEN, by Pierre Bayard (Bloomsbury, $25) FOR THE LOVE OF WINE, by Alice Feiring (Potomac Books, $24. 95) THE JOYS OF TRAVEL, by Thomas Swick (Skyhorse, $24. 99) and PUTIN COUNTRY, by Anne Garrels (Farrar, Straus  Giroux, $26).