Nigel Farage is set to lead a 100, 000 strong march to the Supreme Court in a public show of support for Brexit, as judges rule on whether Parliament should have a say on invoking Brexit. [Mr. Farage, the interim leader of the UK Independence Party (UKIP) will lead the march from Trafalgar Square along Whitehall to Parliament Square alongside other prominent Leave supporters, The Telegraph has reported.  The event will end with a rally in Parliament Square, within sight of the court buildings where judges will listen to the government’s appeal over a recent ruling by the High Court which found that parliament should be given a vote on triggering Article 50 to begin the Brexit process. It is expected to take place on December 5, the first of four days cleared by the court for the hearing. A spokesman for the event said that Mr. Farage, along with Leave. eu backers Arron Banks and Richard Tice, had “secured support from thousands of Leave voters” for both the march and legal action. The group is planning to crowd fund £100, 000 from its supporters to pay for an independent legal team acting on behalf of Leave supporters. The barristers would be able to challenge both the government and the Remain supporters who brought the case. The march would be a “reminder about what we voted for, so there is no slippage on the single market which we think this case was used to get a negotiating stand on” the spokesman said. He added that the event would be an opportunity for “all Leave campaigners, including members of all political parties, [to] march on the Supreme Court to make a point that ‘Brexit means Brexit’. “This will remind the Government, politicians and the establishment, including the court, that they cannot ignore the democratic vote of the people in the referendum. ” The news came as Mr. Farage warned that attempting to overturn the results of the referendum risked “political anger the likes of which none of us in our lifetimes have ever witnessed”. He told the BBC’s Andrew Marr Show: “We may have seen Bob Geldof and 40, 000 people in Parliament Square moaning about Brexit. “But believe you me, if people in this country think that they’re going to be cheated, they’re going to be betrayed, then we will see political anger the likes of which none of us in our lifetimes have ever witnessed in this country. “The temperature of this is very, very high. I’m going to say to everybody watching this who was on the Brexit side, let’s try to get even, let’s have peaceful protest and let’s make sure in any form of election that we don’t support people who want to overturn this process. ” Asked whether attempts to stymie Brexit could lead to “disturbances in the street” he replied: “Yeah, I think that’s right. ”