Joseph R. Murray writes at the Hill:  “You cannot qualify war in harsher terms than I will,” General William Tecumseh Sherman wrote to Atlanta’s officials as he moved forward with plans to evacuate and burn the city. “War is cruelty, and you cannot refine it and those who brought war into our country deserve all the curses and maledictions a people can pour out. ” Less than three months before the presidential election, the political establishment and media elites are facing the “curses and malediction” of war of their own making. After years of being used and abused, the Silent Majority they muzzled is rising up and its voice is Republican nominee Donald Trump. There is no doubt the protectors of the status quo see a threat in Trump. Why else does the media hang on Trump’s every word and pounce whenever they get a whiff of a salacious scent, no matter how faint? Why else has the establishment professed that Trump must change the very formula that resulted in him trouncing multiple Republican rivals  —   many of whom were thought to be the crème de la crème of Republican politicians? The answer? Trump is winning this war to restore the Silent Majority and his victory means the pay for play power structure in Washington  —   enjoyed by both Democrats and Republicans alike  —   is about to come crashing down. [  …    ] Why should Trump change his winning formula when his own party  —   including Speaker Paul Ryan  —   continues to work against him? Why should he trust the very people who put this country in a stranglehold and have a vested interest in his defeat? The recruitment of Bannon will release Trump to be the outsider that won a primary in historic fashion. Bannon will encourage Trump to be the very person the RNC warned against and, for that reason, Trump stands to win because this election is not about Republicans versus Democrats it is about outsider change versus insider corruption. Just look at the reaction of the media. Bannon’s hire has caused a meltdown, one that quickly spread to Capitol Hill. Read the rest of the story here.