Former U. S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has wrapped herself in the mantle of President Barack Obama’s foreign and national security policies, expecting it to facilitate her rise to the presidency. However, the current global mess and her record as U. S. Senator, as the nation’s top diplomat, and her conduct while in office cast serious doubt on whether she deserves election to the nation’s highest office. [On the surface, Secretary Clinton’s resume appears impressive. She served the nation as First Lady for eight years, as   U. S. Senator from New York for eight years, and as the 67th U. S. Secretary of State during President Obama’s first term for four years. She is also the first woman ever nominated for the presidency by a major political party. And, if elected, she would become the first secretary of state to be elected president since James Buchanan in 1856.  As a U. S. Senator, Hillary Clinton attempted to bolster her national security credentials by serving on the U. S. Senate Armed Services Committee. Arguably, her most important and controversial votes were in favor of the Afghanistan and Iraq war resolutions.  Those wars, to date, have resulted in 6, 888 American troop fatalities, 49, 897 American troop injuries, at an estimated cost to the American taxpayer of between $  trillion. And despite the enormous American sacrifice of blood and treasure during the Bush and Obama administrations, these two nations remain among the most dangerous places on earth, infested with radical Islamic terrorists who continue to threaten U. S. citizens and U. S. national security. As Secretary of State (the executive branch of U. S. Government’s third highest position after the President and  ) Mrs. Clinton dutifully   President Obama’s foreign policies and served as a key member of his National Security Council, providing advice and assistance to him on the most important and urgent foreign policies and national security matters. She promised to move the country in a new direction with “smart” foreign policies designed to make the U. S. more secure and the world more free and peaceful. Some significant examples of where those policies led to and how she handled her secretary of state duties follow: Ironically, Secretary Clinton and her allies are suggesting to voters in campaign ads, on the campaign trail, and in media that her prime presidential opponent, Donald Trump, is advocating dangerous policies that would harm the U. S. and world and therefore is unfit to lead this great nation. Time will tell whether American voters will look through that smokescreen and see the harm that President Obama and Secretary Clinton “smart” foreign policies may have done to U. S. and global peace and security, and how she behaved in office. As America’s 2016 presidential election approaches its final stage beginning on Labor Day, American voters will have a clear choice on whether to elect someone like Secretary Clinton who offers a continuation of President Obama’s globalist policies or a successful international businessman and   Trump who seeks to “Make America Great Again” by turning the country in a new direction, placing American interests first and away from  ’s globalist policies. The world will be anxiously awaiting their decision. Fred Gedrich is a foreign policy and national security analyst.  He served in the U. S. departments of State and Defense.