An American expatriate considered one of the most powerful women in Britain has hosted a Hillary Clinton campaign event for London’s   elite. [Lady Barbara Judge hosted the   $5, 000 per ticket Women Abroad for Hillary event for expatriates living in Britain to have an audience with Melanne Verveer, the   Hillary advocate and former U. S. State Department official.  Lady Judge, an   businesswoman who has been living in Britain since the early 1990s, is a prominent figure in both the London and international elite. She currently is a member of the David   globalist Trilateral Commission, as well as a member of the Council on Foreign Relations which promotes globalisation and economic consolidation into regional blocs such as NAFTA and the European Union (EU). Former roles include executive director of News International, and Chairman of the UK Atomic Energy Authority (UKAEA). She has also served on the International Advisory Board for the development of nuclear energy in the United Arab Emirates (UAE).  The dual American and British national, who was appointed CBE in 2010 for her services to the nuclear and financial industries, was named by BBC Radio 4 as one of Britain’s most powerful women, and holds an entry in the exclusive society handbook Debrett’s list of top 500 most influential people in the UK.  This is not the first time that   campaigners have attempted to influence absentee voters in Britain. In September,   Avaaz staged an event where organisers drove an   campaign bus through London. Avaaz sought to “mobilise” a   “secret swing state” of progressive, “global citizen” American expatriates to “stop Trump”.   The bus tour was attended by Americans living in London, most of whom had been living outside of the U. S. for decades, with many being members of the academic, art, and liberal elite of London. There were also  . S. campaigners from Britain and Europe who are actively engaged in the wider   globalist, and   movements in the city. Breitbart London spoke to campaigners on the bus. They sneered at Middle America, saying that Americans from the heartland were less educated than them, too   nationalistic, and, according to one Swede, too stupid to get passports.  Ms. Veveer’s appearance in London at the power player’s home on Wednesday follows on from her ‘in conversation’ in Stockholm, Sweden, on Tuesday. The event’s tickets  —   or ‘contributions’  —   were $100 for under 35s, $250 for supporters, $500 for advocates, and $5, 000 for  . Nineteen   were listed on the event’s website, meaning that in the region of nearly $100, 000 was raised for the Hillary Victory Fund in London alone. 