OBSCENITY WARNING: Extensive use of profanity in the quoted BLM tweets.  The day after a racist monster shot 12 white policemen in Dallas, murdering five of them, in the worst mass shooting of policemen in history, Hillary Clinton went on Wolf Blitzer’s show and blamed the cops. Asked what she would do to stop police from being targeted for murder, she said: “Remember that, just 24 hours before, we had a killing, with the loss of life in Baton Rouge, in Minneapolis. ” As president, she said, she would “have national guidelines about the use of force by police, especially deadly force. ” She couldn’t take ONE DAY to talk about the cops who were murdered in Dallas? The nicest thing Hillary could think to say about the dead cops was that they were shot while performing their most sacred duty: protecting Black Lives Matter protesters hurling abuse at them. “Those police officers were protecting a peaceful protest, a protest of authority, that is a hallmark of America. ” No matter how Wolf Blitzer framed the question about the   murder of five cops, Hillary would not stop lecturing the police for their lack of sensitivity. “It’s going to take a lot of training on the part of our police officers to get back into the communities, to understand what’s happening in neighborhoods. ” There’s a big audience for Hillary’s    approach. Even as the Dallas massacre was happening, and for the next 24 hours, Twitter was ablaze with tweets congratulating the mass murderer for killing “pigs”:  —   @alexthecracker: hopefully this boy in dallas is getting kill shots on these pigs,  —   @baart_T: fuck the police bitch! !!!! !! #dallas I hope them pigs more.  —   @AngelBruh_91: They need more shooters in Dallas like the ones who shot two pigs. Before they kill another real nigga who followed his #rns #blm,  —   @PeterRo42387421: Next time a group wants to oganize a police shoot, do like Dallas tonight, but have extra   to flank the Pigs!  —   @24BenFrank: Yeah it’s lit in Dallas fuck the pigs !!  —   @brimspider: dude hell yeah someone is shooting pigs in dallas. Solidarity,  —   @radavian: Cops in US. Especially in Texas are savage animals that will shoot you whenever they please. Now in Dallas is payback time, pigs.  —   @XenGod: Our brothers in Dallas sniping pigs, Salute them, Kalyn Chapman James, the first black Miss Alabama, said she wasn’t “sad” for the white cops gunned down in Dallas, and expressed admiration for their murderer, saying, “A lot of us feel the same way. ” On CNN, Don Lemon responded to the murder of five cops by complaining that he has to call cops “sir” in order “to stay alive. ” He then repeated the insane liberal fantasy about how unfailingly polite black people are to the cops, compared to the abuse heaped on them by white people. “My white counterparts,” Lemon said, “speak to police officers in a way that I would never in a million years do, and that is the reality of it. ” Pro Tip: To avoid being arrested or shot by the police, do not violently attack them, scream expletives at them, throw bottles and rocks at them, or try to grab their guns.  The media love to point out that one out of four civilians shot by the police are black  —   in combination with the gigantically irrelevant fact that blacks are only 13 percent of the population. They’re hoping no one will mention the awkward fact that blacks punch way above their weight in the percentage of crime they commit. Heather MacDonald of the Manhattan Institute looked at the FBI statistics for the 75 largest counties in the country and found that although blacks are only 15 percent of the population in those counties, they commit 57 percent of the murders, 45 percent of the assaults and 62 percent of the robberies. There is not a crime that blacks do not commit at rates higher than whites, Hispanics and Asians, except probably failing to properly extinguish a campfire in a national forest. According to the FBI, in 2013, 37 percent of   are black. Policemen are nearly 19 times more likely to be killed by a black person than a black person is to be killed by a cop. Given these crime rates, the fact that only 26 percent of civilians killed by police are black is astonishing. In addition to not understanding basic statistical facts, the Black Lives Matter people are crazy. They’re avowedly   marching through the streets shouting, “What do we want?” “DEAD COPS!” “When do we want it?” “NOW!”  There’s very little reason to imagine that most black people think any better of them than the rest of us do. BLM is attractive to college students because it’s not the Black Panthers. BLM is a gay group. It was started by two lesbians and its most prominent spokesman is a gay man. The BLM activists may gin up violent Panther types to go out and kill police, but there are no “Black Panther” groups on college campuses, whereas nearly every college has a BLM chapter. BLM is never going to win the hearts of black America. It’s just a vehicle for   mostly   college kids to act out because they’re at colleges they never should have been admitted to, or because of their rejection by the black community for being gay. (Former BLM activist Shaun King was exposed as full white, pulling a Rachel Dolezal, by pretending to be black, even winning an Oprah scholarship to a historically black college.) What we’ve learned from the Dallas police shooting is that Clinton is betting Republicans are too sissified to challenge her on her support for BLM. If Trump has the balls to denounce BLM and demand that Hillary disavow her support of these eunuch   enablers, he won’t lose a single black vote. COPYRIGHT 2016 ANN COULTER DISTRIBUTED BY UNIVERSAL UCLICK