Actress Debra Messing posed for a selfie in support of gun control just as a manhunt began for the suspect who opened fire on the campus of University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) Wednesday morning. [Two victims were shot on UCLA’s   campus at around 9:53 a. m. Wednesday morning, Breitbart News previously reported. At 10:35 am, as police began searching for the perpetrator, Messing tweeted a selfie with the caption: “HORRENDOUS Watching news about shooting at UCLA with casualties while taking selfie 2bring awareness to Gun Violence. ”  The actress wore a shirt with the logo from Katie Couric’s gun control documentary Under The Gun. Couric recently apologized for “misleading” viewers with edits in the film designed to make   Amendment advocates appear foolish. The tweet featuring the photograph appeared to have been deleted shortly after it was posted. Messing apparently faced significant backlash shortly after posting the tweet. In a series of   messages, the Will and Grace star said she never intended to cause offense and was simply a victim of “the horrendous irony of the timing” of the post. Today we were asked to have our Voices heard. The horrendous Irony is the timing of yet another shooting. This has NOTHING to do with me.  —   Debra Messing (@DebraMessing) June 1, 2016,    guess I didn’t. The pix was being taken just AS the news broke. I thought the horrendous irony of the timing  https:  .   —   Debra Messing (@DebraMessing) June 1, 2016,    a brighter light in the crisis and need for all of us to do something together to make the US safer. Sorry  https:  .   —   Debra Messing (@DebraMessing) June 1, 2016,    if it was misconstrued and caused offense. That’s the last thing I want to do.  https:  .   —   Debra Messing (@DebraMessing) June 1, 2016,  Messing failed to mention that the UCLA campus is    —  like all California college campuses. In other words, the campus has 100 percent gun control. A short time later, Messing tweeted a longer statement in defense of her initial tweet: PLEASE READ: pic. twitter.   —   Debra Messing (@DebraMessing) June 1, 2016,  AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.        