The Obama administration has created a “resettlement surge center” which has produced a pouring of 100 Syrian refugees in the U. S. per day. The very real risk to Americans  —   the lack of proper vetting of these individuals by the quick processing that is being done, almost all of them reported to be Muslims. [Over 100 Syrian refugees have been admitted every day in June according to the federal government’s own database from the Refugee Processing Center. More than 1, 000 were admitted in May. The rate of those admitted has   when compared to the 3, 755 accepted in fiscal year 2016.  The Conservative Review reported these numbers, and that approximately   were admitted during the first six months of fiscal year 2016. It noted that the Associated Press reported in April that the federal government set up a “resettlement surge center” in Amman, Jordan in February. The center is now interviewing approximately 600 people a day. The “vetting” process, already questioned by leaders in the country, has been   from   months to just three months. The “refugee mill” can now go through thousands of applications every month. The Center for Immigration Studies published concerns raised by the comments of Simon Henshaw, principal deputy assistant secretary of the State Department’s Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration, when he certified that 12, 000 applicants were interviewed in February, March, and April. He wrote: So the fact that 225 Syrian refugees were admitted into the United States in a new   record for Syrian refugee approvals is beside the point. What is of importance here is that 12, 000 were interviewed in such a short time driven by the urgency to meet the September deadline.  Henshaw made these statements during a meeting on the “Refugee Crisis in the Middle East,” organized by the Center for Migration Studies (CMS) in May. Obama promised and the U. S. Congress has acquiesced to 10, 000 Syrians being admitted by September 30 when the fiscal year ends. In September 2015, President Obama directed the U. S. government to admit 10, 000 Syrian refugees into the country. Now, according to the regional refugee coordinator at the U. S. Embassy in Anman in April, “The 10, 000 [number] is a floor and not a ceiling, and it is possible to increase the number. ” A video excerpt from an October 2015 House Homeland Security Committee hearing reveals exactly why U. S. and state leaders have called for “a screeching halt” to Syrian resettlement in the country, as reported by Breitbart Texas. Congressman Lamar Smith ( ) asked federal security and crime directors whether terrorists would use federal programs to gain access to this country in order to commit terrorist acts. The Director of the National Counterterrorism Center answered, “We have certainly seen terrorist groups talk about, think about, exactly what you are describing, Mr. Smith. Trying to use available programs to get people not only into the United States, but into western European countries as well. So we know that they aspire to do that. ” Rep. Smith asked about the vetting process and noted that terrorist organizations would most likely have individuals come into the country who have not yet committed a crime or had “a public background,” or committed a terrorist act. U. S. Department of Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson answered the vetting question by saying that every alleged refugee is interviewed, and that they complete an application. Smith responded saying that you are then essentially relying upon the refugee who is filling out the application, and “you can’t go beyond that, so you are sorta having to take their word for it. ” At the time Smith added, “As I say, both the profile and the motive of terrorist organizations, and your admission that there is some risk involved, to me would persuade the administration to go slow, rather than fast, when it comes to admitting individuals who might do us harm. ” Smith noted that both FBI Director James B. Comey and Homeland Security Secretary Johnson admitted they do not currently have the ability to properly screen and conduct sufficient background checks on these refugees. Besides the risk of terrorist attacks in the U. S. there is also a huge financial cost to the U. S. Senator Jeff Sessions for one, has chastised U. S. representatives for their response to President Obama’s refugee plan. As reported by Breitbart News, admitting 10, 000 refugees into the United States “presents a net lifetime cost to taxpayers of $6. 5 billion, meaning that under the current plan to admit 85, 000 refugees this fiscal year, taxpayers will be on the hook for $55 billion,” he said. Moreover, Americans would be wise to take heed of what has happened to citizens in Europe. Europeans have suffered intense economic, social, and criminal consequences (theft, murder, rape, and other violence) for the refugee policies and the invasion of these migrants in European countries. Germany alone has been flooded with more than 1. 1 million migrants in 2015, as reported by Breitbart London. It also reported  that a famous German social worker broke his silence on sexual abuse and theft committed by migrants in Germany, and said that what happened in Cologne on New Year’s Eve is happening in German towns every day. Migrants burned down an asylum centre just a few days ago in Dusseldorf, Germany. They were reported to be upset because they allegedly did not receive a   call in time for their Ramadan breakfast. They have also protested by smearing blood, vomit and feces all over the wall of asylum homes. Migrants screamed “Allah hu Akbar” and tried to break down a border fence in Greece, reported Breitbart London in April. An   video went viral across Europe in November. Drone footage showed the crisis created by these migrant men, dubbed by those fearful of their intentions, as a “Trojan Horse” of fighting men infiltrating the countries. It was reported that “Only a fraction of them are Syrian, as they enter unfiltered, without any documents and without any legitimate right to claim asylum. Women and children are rarely seen, except in the   sob stories of the media. ” As Breitbart London reported at the time, a tearful woman told a news crew: “We are in danger, every day, every minute. We need someone to protect us. They come into our houses. I want to go to work, but I can’t. Our children want to go to school, but they can’t. They have stolen our lives!” Even the Dalai Lama has warned that there are too many migrants pouring into Europe. He said the solution to problems is the repatriation of migrants, reported Raheem Kassam, Editor in Chief of Breitbart London. The    media in Europe and in the United States have gone overboard to   and editorialize about the crime caused by migrants in Europe, including in Cologne, Germany’s, mass migrant rape on New Year’s Eve, as exposed by Breitbart London. The Paris terrorist attack mastermind posed as a Syrian refugee to enter Europe. After the attacks in November, Breitbart London reported that at least two of the attackers were thought to have “slipped in among the hundreds of thousands of migrants making their way across the continent, prompting a senior French security official to comment that Europe’s borders are ‘like a sieve. ’” Five of the wealthiest Muslim countries have refused to take even a single Syrian because of the risk of terrorism, reported Breitbart London in September 2015. In   Breitbart London reported  that the   of the United Nations Office in Geneva admitted that most of the migrants from Syria are not fleeing persecution or war. Lana Shadwick is a writer and legal analyst for Breitbart Texas. She has served as a prosecutor and associate judge in Texas. Follow her on Twitter @LanaShadwick2.  