Five soldiers were killed and four were missing after a truck overturned Thursday during a routine training mission at the Fort Hood military post in Texas, the Army said. Three other soldiers were rescued from water near the vehicle and were listed in stable condition. They were taken to a medical center on the post, according to a statement. Chris Haug, a spokesman for Fort Hood, said that floodwaters from recent rains were believed to have overturned the truck, a Light Medium Tactical Vehicle, while the soldiers were using a low water crossing, but that the episode would be investigated. Mr. Haug said the soldiers were on a mission that “they do every day,” and driving on “a normal dirt road” that was not known to be a problem. The area has been inundated with heavy rain over the past week. Around the time of the accident, concerns about flooding had caused emergency personnel to close a paved road that runs parallel to the dirt road the soldiers were traveling on. “All the low water crossings are potentially dangerous when we’ve had this much rain,” said Tyler Broadway, another Fort Hood spokesman. The accident, which took place about 12 miles north of the base’s main area, was reported shortly after 11 a. m. on Thursday. Search parties were sent immediately. Rescue teams were searching for the missing soldiers by air, land and water, the statement said. The bodies of the dead soldiers were recovered downstream from where the truck overturned. Their names will not be released until their families are notified. The National Weather Service issued a flash flood watch for all of northern and central Texas on Thursday afternoon, with rainstorms expected to continue through Friday afternoon. May brought a   amount of rain to the state, resulting in the deaths of at least six other people. Gov. Greg Abbott issued a statement, saying, “Texas stands ready to provide any assistance to Fort Hood as they deal with this tragedy. ” This is not the first fatal episode in recent months during a training exercise at Fort Hood. In November, a Black Hawk helicopter crashed during an exercise at the post, killing four crew members.