The line to get into Shooters gun store in Jacksonville, Florida, stretched around the corner as customers waited to get inside and buy the firearms and firearms accessories they wanted for themselves or planned to give as Christmas gifts. [The scenario was not limited to Florida. In Randolph, New Jersey, “shoppers packed into RTSP, a gun shop and firing range. ”  CNN Money quoted Dr. Joseph Feldman, a surgeon from Montville who “was buying a $500 Sig Sauer scope for his R. E. P. R. semiautomatic rifle from the manufacturer LWRCI, one of four   that he owns. ” Feldman “was also buying ammunition for the   and had his eye on a Henry   …     lever action rifle manufactured in nearby Bayonne. ” Gun store owners in the New   York area admitted they had not known what to expect on Black Friday, as they believed Hillary Clinton’s defeat might impact sales negatively. Her defeat removed the looming threat of more gun control, but shoppers still poured in, driven to shop for firearms because of low sale prices rather than trepidation over more gun laws. For example, Rick Reyes, “manager of LI Outdoorsman, a gun store in Rockville Centre on Long Island, New York,” said shoppers came in for “discounts of 10% to 50%” rather than “politics. ” In Florida, News 4 Jax reported that Greenacres Sporting Goods, a gun store on Normandy Boulevard in Jacksonville’s Westside, “was packed with customers who saved big on firearm deals” Black Friday 2015 was the biggest day for background checks since 1998. It set both a   record and a Black Friday record. Yet Greenacres manager Phillip Gazalah suggested the shopping crowds were larger this Black Friday. He noted a “an uptick” of “probably   percent,” where “people are coming to purchase the gun because the deal is great. ” AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and host of “Bullets with AWR Hawkins,” a Breitbart News podcast. He is also the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.