The Clinton Health Access Initiative (CHAI) the Clinton foundation’s flagship project, may chose to ignore the organization’s recent decision to stop accepting money from foreign governments and cooperations. [“CHAI is a separate legal entity from the Clinton Foundation with its own Board,” CHAI spokeswoman Regan Lachapelle told Reuters on Friday. “The CHAI Board will be meeting soon to determine its next steps. ”  The   organization, founded in 2002, is the largest program of the Clinton Foundation. It accounted for nearly 60 percent of the $250 million the Clinton Foundation spent in 2014. CHAI may be a “separate legal entity” from the Clinton’s New York   charity, but it’s budget is included in the Clinton Foundation’s annual audited expenses, yearly reports, and is listed under “affiliated entities” on the Clinton Foundation website. Another Clinton Foundation initiative set to ignore the foreign donations ban is the Clinton Giustra Enterprise Partnership (CGEP). “If Secretary Clinton wins the election, we plan to spin CGEP into an independent entity to continue this important work,” CGEP   Frank Giustra, who founded the   organization with Bill Clinton in 2007, said Friday. “President Clinton and I believe it is important that we continue the work of alleviating poverty around the world. ” Giustra is the   dollar Clinton Foundation donor and Canadian mining magnate who  —   along with Bill Clinton’s global connections and Hillary Clinton’s State Department  —   helped facilitate the transfer of 20 percent of the United States’ uranium supply to the Russian government, a revelation that first appeared in The New York Times bestselling book Clinton Cash, authored by Breitbart News Senior    Peter Schweizer. CHAI and CGEP’s apparent choice to ignore the Clinton Foundation’s ban on foreign money comes as Bill Clinton says he will resign from the Clinton Foundation board, should Hillary Clinton win in November. On Tuesday, the Boston Globe, which sits less than two miles from CHAI, called for the “shut down” of the Clinton Foundation, should Hillary win. “Even if they’ve done nothing illegal, the foundation will always look too much like a conflict of interest for comfort,” the Globe’s editorial board, which endorsed Hillary Clinton’s presidential bid, wrote. Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @JeromeEHudson