A hearing was held Thursday in the case of the little    girl in Twin Falls, Idaho who was raped  —   with three Muslim migrant boys being the primary suspects. Now I believe it is absolutely certain and undeniable: Twin Falls County Prosecutor Grant Loebs lied outright when he said, “There were no Syrians involved, there was no knife involved, there was no  . ”[In fact, there was a knife involved, and there was gang rape. Why are Loebs and other law enforcement and government officials so desperate to cover up the facts of this case?  The hearing was called a   hearing and was essentially worthless, but one stunning and previously unknown fact emerged: two of the suspects  —   the    and    Muslim migrant boys  —   are accused of assaulting this defenseless    girl both orally and anally. This appalling allegation had not even been revealed previously to the victim’s mother. And Grant Loebs has the audacity to say that there was no gang rape? It is not yet known whether or not the alleged ringleader of this appalling attack also assaulted the girl orally and anally, because he has not yet had to appear in court. But what was revealed Thursday coincides with and amplifies what the poor little girl’s mother got straight from the victim herself: “This is what my daughter has told me: that they grabbed her at knifepoint and forced her into the laundry room and told her that if she tried to leave, they would kill her. The    boy took her clothes off. She tells me he put his private in her mouth and peed in her mouth, and put it in her private, and then peed all over her. And she said they recorded her, too  …     She also told the emergency room CARES doctor that they had a knife as well, and they found on her neck a cut. Then the day after, they claimed it was a scratch, when in fact it looked like a cut. ” It also provides confirmation of what the father reported to me about video he saw that the attacking boys took of their attack: “I watched the    boy push my daughter up against a wall and pull her pants down and his pants down he then attempted to penetrate her from behind. She was able to run away and crouch in a corner shaking in fear while the boy danced around naked laughing at her. I stopped watching after that. ” It also was revealed during the court hearing that the two Muslim migrant suspects who were required to appear in court Thursday have moved, and all three are not in custody  —   they are free. They roaming around loose and unsupervised. The court hearing Thursday was a circus. The family of two of the alleged attackers appeared (the    and   ) the alleged rapists’ father came with three Muslim women, one of whom was likely the mother of the    attacker. A Muslim interpreter was on hand via telephone and was translating the proceedings for the Muslim parents. In other legal cases, Muslim interpreters have been accused of exercising undue influence over the proceedings, often at the expense of victims. One Muslim woman who was raped wrote this in a suicide note to her attorney: “Everything I told you then is true  …     But the interpreter there told me that a faithful woman must not use words like sex and rape. Words like that would dishonor my husband and our family. She also said that I was a blasphemer, because I went to the police. No woman should report her own husband. The husband must be honored. ” Meanwhile, the victim in Twin Falls, once a happy and social child, now frequently insists that she wants to be alone. She finds a small and safe space inside a closet and stays in it alone for hours. Once a very chatty child, she has become very quiet. Even in the summer heat of Twin Falls, she now always wears two   and two pairs of underwear. She talks constantly about “those naughty boys” and asks her mother repeatedly not to tell her father everything that happened because it will upset him. The alleged attackers’ families had no trouble getting new home, but the victim’s family is still without a new apartment. They are enrolled in new schools. Do Grant Loebs’ children go to their new school? Local news editor Matt Christensen’s? This little girl deserves justice. And she is not getting it. Pamela Geller is the President of the American Freedom Defense Initiative (AFDI) publisher of PamelaGeller. com and author of The   Presidency: The Obama Administration’s War on America and Stop the Islamization of America: A Practical Guide to the Resistance. Follow her on Twitter here. Like her on Facebook here.