The Obama administration is warning Americans not to cast blame on Muslims after a student at Ohio State University launched an attack on innocent civilians that was likely inspired by Islamic State terrorists. [“Our response to this situation matters,” White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest explained to reporters during the press briefing. “If we respond to this situation by casting aspersions on millions of people that adhere to a particular religion or if we increase our suspicion of people who practice a particular religion, we are more likely going to contribute to acts of violence than we are to prevent them. ”  Earnest said that although there was evidence that the attacker might have been inspired by extremism, his motives were still under investigation. Law enforcement investigators have pinpointed the attacker as “likely inspired by ISIS” according to a CNN report release after the White House press briefing. The attacker posted a message on Facebook that law enforcement officials have released to the public. “By Allah, we will not let you sleep unless you give peace to the Muslims. You will not celebrate or enjoy any holiday,” he wrote before the attack. “Btw, every single Muslim who disapproves of my actions is a sleeper cell, waiting for a signal. I am warning you Oh America. ” On Tuesday, the ISIS news agency Amaq claimed the attacker was “a soldier of God,” according to the New Yorker, and might have been inspired by the Islamic State’s terrorist manual. Earnest praised law enforcement officials for stopping the attack just one minute after it began, preventing the deaths of unarmed victims. “We owe a deep debt of gratitude to the first responders who reacted so heroically with the situation there,” he said, praising their “bravery and professional skill. ” When Breitbart News asked if the president had contacted heroic Ohio State police Officer Alan Horujko who shot and killed the attacker, Earnest demurred.  “I don’t know that they’ve had a chance to talk at this point, but if a conversation like that occurs I will let you know,” Earnest said.