Turkey’s President Recep Tayyip Erdogan wants the terrorist hatcheries to be operating at full capacity. He said Monday: “We will multiply our descendants. They talk about population planning, birth control. No Muslim family can have such an approach. Nobody can interfere in Allah’s work. The first duty here belongs to mothers. ” In the past, he has even said that using birth control was tantamount to treason.  The devout Muslim supremacist Turkish President, who styles himself the next Ottoman caliph, needs an army of vicious, mindless jihadis  —   why else would he issue this edict on birth control? The man who took down Turkey, who buried the founder of secular Turkey, Kemal Ataturk, and all that that he stood for hopes to resurrect the savage reign of the Ottoman empire. The Huffington Post ran a Reuters report on this without a hint of disapproval. They have no problem with this  —   but imagine what their reaction would have been if a Republican had said such a thing. The Express reported that “despite a decline, Turkey’s fertility rate is one of the highest in Europe and the population is just under 80 million. ” Europe is dying, from the combined effects of a low birth rate and suicidal immigration polices. What chance does it possibly have for a future? These comments from Erdogan about birth control don’t take place in a vacuum. The Turkish President has a vision for a Muslim Europe. He has devised a to bring it about and is putting that plan into very real action. Turkey was the gateway country for the unprecedented invasion of Muslims into Europe. Despite myriad attempts by German Chancellor Angela Merkel and the European Union to make deals with Turkey to somehow stem the tidal wave of Muslim migrants, Erdogan flagrantly moves ahead with his battle plan. And now EU Commission President   Juncker has accused Turkey of issuing “threats” to secure   travel in Europe for its 80 million citizens. Meanwhile, Erdogan exercises increasing power in Europe. Merkel is allowing a German comedian to be prosecuted for insulting the Turkish President. This is   sharia enforcement in Merkelistan. This woman is adopting Hitlerian policies. Hitler, too, restricted speech and enforced it much the way Merkel is, i. e.   Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook to censor posts that were critical of the migrant invasion. That Zuckerberg did it shows how dangerous the power he wields really is. Merkel has gone off the rails. She has become a tool of the   caliph in Ankara. Freedom of speech is the foundation of a free society. Without it, a tyrant can wreak havoc unopposed, while his opponents are silenced. Putting up with being offended is essential in a pluralistic society in which people differ on basic truths. If a group will not bear being offended without resorting to violence, that group will rule unopposed while everyone else lives in fear, while other groups curtail their activities to appease the violent group. This results in the violent group being able to tyrannize the others. That would be fine with Erdogan. The Jerusalem Post reported in April that Erdogan said: “I am one of the first political leaders officially declaring that   is a crime. I expect an official declaration that Islamophobia is a crime against humanity as well. Islamophobia emerged from the Western countries and this is a challenge that we all together need to surmount. ” What he means is that any opposition to jihad terror should be criminalized. This is the man whom Obama called his best, most trusted friend among world leaders. Europe dismantles while rebuilding the Ottoman Empire. Turkey’s demographics, especially with Erdogan’s new edict about birth control, make Turkey into a ticking time bomb that will go off in the heart of Europe before anyone expects  —   probably while European authorities are still wringing their hands over “Islamophobia. ” Pamela Geller is the President of the American Freedom Defense Initiative (AFDI) publisher of PamelaGeller. com and author of The   Presidency: The Obama Administration’s War on America and Stop the Islamization of America: A Practical Guide to the Resistance. Follow her on Twitter here. Like her on Facebook here.