A Facebook privacy hoax has once again gone viral on the site, warning users that if they fail to follow specific instructions all their personal information, from photos to private messages, will become publicly available. [The message warns users that if they fail to copy and paste the listed message, which warns users that Facebook is changing its privacy policy, the site will attempt to disclose its users’ information, such as pictures, messages, and posts.  It claims that a statement reminding Facebook that the disclosure of users’ personal information is illegal is the only way to prevent the potential violation of privacy. The message is as follows: Deadline tomorrow! !! Everything you’ve ever posted becomes public from tomorrow. Even messages that have been deleted or the photos not allowed. It costs nothing for a simple copy and paste, better safe than sorry. Channel 13 News talked about the change in Facebook’s privacy policy. I do not give Facebook or any entities associated with Facebook permission to use my pictures, information, messages or posts, both past and future.  With this statement, I give notice to Facebook it is strictly forbidden to disclose, copy, distribute, or take any other action against me based on this profile   its contents. The content of this profile is private and confidential information. The violation of privacy can be punished by law (UCC    1 1   and the Rome Statute).  NOTE: Facebook is now a public entity. All members must post a note like this. If you prefer, you can copy and paste this version. If you do not publish a statement at least once it will be tactically allowing the use of your photos, as well as the information contained in the profile status updates. DO NOT SHARE. Copy and paste.’ Unsurprisingly, Snopes has revealed that the message is a hoax. “First off the ‘problem’ this ineffective solution supposedly addresses is a   one: Facebook isn’t claiming copyright to the personal information, photographs, and other material that their users are posting to the social network, nor have they announced any plans that would make all Facebook posts public,” they report. This is now the second time the rumor has gained traction, having also gone viral in January 2015. At the time, the company issued a statement waning users that “there is a rumor circulating that Facebook is making a change related to ownership of users’ information or the content they post to the site. This is false. ” “Anyone who uses Facebook owns and controls the content and information they post, as stated in our terms. They control how that content and information is shared. That is our policy, and it always has been,” it added. You can follow Ben Kew on Facebook, on Twitter at @ben_kew, or email him at bkew@breitbart. com 