Republican nominee Donald Trump and his runningmate Indiana Gov. Mike Pence both continuously criticized Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton during a campaign rally in Des Moines, Iowa on Friday afternoon. [“She’s like an unbalanced person,” Trump told roughly 2, 000 supporters at the event, going after his competitor. “She’s pretty close to unhinged. ”  Trump, citing a recent book from a former secret service agent who worked for the Clintons, said, “He thinks she would be a disaster as president,” adding that she’s “totally unfit to lead. ” “She cannot handle pressure. I handle pressure,” the New Yorker declared. Thousands come out to support @realDonaldTrump and @GovPenceIN in Des Moines #MakeAmericaGreatAgain pic. twitter.   —   IowaGOP (@IowaGOP) August 5, 2016,  Trump spent most of his speech in Des Moines criticizing Clinton’s immigration policy. “She wants amnesty. She wants open borders,” Trump said of Clinton, adding that if that happens there won’t be a country left. “Her immigration plan is not only dangerous  …    the voters don’t want this to happen. ” “Her plan does nothing to protect those who are victimized  …    by our blind pursuit of open borders,” he added, saying illegal immigrants are “taking away Americans’ jobs” and that cartels and Islamic extremists could manipulate the open borders. “If you don’t like me, that’s ok, vote for Pence because it’s the same thing,” he said in closing after asking for the voters to vote for him on Nov. 8. Pence introduced Trump after he spoke, also spending most of his speech attacking Clinton. He said Clinton’s speech at the Democratic National Convention was the “same old, same old. ” “I had about as hard a time staying awake as her husband did,” he added, referencing a video of Bill Clinton that surfaced appearing to show him closing his eyes during her speech. “We ae going to raise taxes on the middle class,” Pence stated, mocking Clinton who misspoke during a campaign event on Wednesday. “She accidentally spoke the truth,” he jabbed. Pence also set the record straight that the campaign is united after reports surfaced earlier this week that it was in disarray. “We are united. This movement is united,” Pence declared.