On Breitbart News Sunday, American Disney IT worker Leo Perrero spoke out against one of the world’s largest mass media corporations, which forced him and other   Americans out of their jobs and blackmailed them into training cheap, imported foreign workers without exposing the abuse of the   visa program on pain of losing their severance packages. [Perrero described how the corporation, represented by beloved childhood icon Mickey Mouse, kicked an American father to the curb:  We were given 90 days notice by a prominent Disney executive that we were going to train our foreign replacements. If we didn’t do so, we wouldn’t receive our severance package. Over that   period, they recorded everything we did with the audio and video on our computers, and right at the end, we were ushered out the door. And the foreign workers that were flowing in just weeks before took over our jobs, and we were long gone. It was the most humiliating thing I’ve ever gone through. It really challenged my patriotism, because I felt like I was selling out my country like a prostitute, taking money in exchange for selling out my country. It was just utterly humiliating. It was torture. Every single day I was going through it  —   it was the hardest thing I’ve ever gone through in my life. Breitbart News executive chairman and host Stephen K. Bannon asked what made GOP frontrunner Donald Trump and recent endorser Alabama Sen. Jeff Sessions different from the normal political campaigns. “Well, they just really impressed me,” Perrero said: I testified before a Senate subcommittee last week  …     Senator Sessions has been after this problem for a very long time. He’s really one of the few trying to push bills through that will make a change to this broken   visa program that’s being abused. I’m really proud that he’s trying to do something there. It’s just kind of disheartening that there’s just such a small group that’s really going after this actively. And him endorsing Trump today really, I think, says a lot. Sessions is a really great man, and I’m proud he’s doing what he’s doing. And when he endorses somebody, that really makes it solid to me as well. Perrero added some Democrats are fighting on behalf of displaced Americans like himself as well, but Washington as a whole is united in favor of mass immigration. “They’re just really not gaining much traction yet with the current lawmakers in office,” he said. Perrero also testified before the Senate Subcommittee on Immigration and the National Interest earlier in the week about the media corporation: During the holiday season of 2014, I was sent a meeting invitation by a prominent Disney executive. With an excellent review in hand along with company announcements of record profits my mind buzzed with thoughts of a promotion or a bonus. I walked into a small conference room with about two dozen highly respected fellow IT workers. The Disney executive made a harsh announcement to us all. ‘Your jobs have been given over to a foreign workforce  …     In the meantime you will be training your replacements until your jobs are 100 percent transferred over to them and if you don’t cooperate you will not receive any severance pay.’ Later that same day, I remember very clearly going to the local church pumpkin sale and having to tell the kids that we could not buy any because my job was going over to a foreign worker. During his testimony, Perrero revealed that corporations use the   visa program to humiliate, silence, and expel American workers all across the nation: “The situation at Disney is not an anomaly. This same abuse is happening nationwide. ” LISTEN: 