PARIS  —   For almost two hours, Serena Williams and Garbiñe Muguruza hammered tennis balls back and forth over the net, each one answering the other’s power with power of her own, until the final point. Williams had fired a backhand down the line, directly in front of Billie Jean King, who was watching from the front row. Then she forced Muguruza deep into the other corner. Muguruza saw Williams lurking at the net, after all the grunting and power tennis, the quick rallies and    shots, and she suddenly changed course. Backed into a defensive corner, she lifted a gentle, arching topspin lob that curled into the sky and fell back to the red clay inside the baseline for match point. At first there was no sound, no call from the lineswoman or the chair umpire. The precious moment that Muguruza had been waiting most of her life for was stalled in some kind of strange delay. “I was like: ‘Did I win Roland Garros? What happened? ’” Muguruza said. It was Williams who broke the remarkable news to the world. She paused for a moment, processed that the ball was in, then graciously lifted her left hand to her racket face and clapped in appreciation of a good shot, and a great victory. Muguruza had just won the French Open,     for her first major title, at age 22. A few minutes later Muguruza accepted the Suzanne Lenglen award from King, the 1972 champion here and winner of 12 major singles tournaments over all. For King, it was not merely a compelling tennis match between elite athletes, it was the first glimpse of a new era. “It’s the changing of the guard,” King said. “It’s starting. This kid has got it all. ” Williams, 34, will probably have more to say about that in the coming months and perhaps years. But it has been a challenging   toil for her already as she has gone 0 for 3 in attempts to win a 22nd major tournament trophy, a mark that would draw her even with Steffi Graf for the Open Era record. (Margaret Court won 24, but 13 of them were before the Open Era.) Williams beat Muguruza in straight sets at last year’s Wimbledon to win her 21st major title. But then she lost at the United States Open, at the Australian Open and now here. Her coach, Patrick Mouratoglou, said it was inevitable that Williams would be thinking about the historical significance of what she is attempting, and the expectations heaped upon her, and perhaps the pressure accounted for at least some of her mistakes. “If she would not feel the pressure of the 22nd, she would not be human,” Mouratoglou said. But Williams dismissed the idea that her pursuit of Graf affected her play. She noted that in Australia, Angelique Kerber played a flawless final, and that Muguruza was simply too good for her on Saturday. “Today, Garbiñe played unbelievable,” Williams said. “The only thing I can do is just keep trying. ” In her two previous matches, Williams looked sluggish, especially in her movement on court, and she acknowledged playing with a strained adductor muscle in her upper leg. Mouratoglou said there was no injury, but either way, Williams refused to use it as an excuse. “It was O. K.,” she said. “I’m not one to ever make excuses and say, like, ‘Oh, my adductor was hurting,’ or whatever. I think at the end of the day, I didn’t play the game I needed to play to win, and she did. ” Muguruza is similar to Williams in some ways. She has a power game and likes to dictate play with aggressive shots. Muguruza will often say that she will win or lose a match according to how she strikes the ball, not how her opponent plays. Williams says much the same thing. Most of the points on Saturday were quick, and long rallies were the exception. But one of them came with Williams serving at   in the first set. At   they traded crosscourt backhands  —   six in all  —   until Muguruza changed the course of the point, and perhaps the match, by ripping a forehand up the line. Williams could not return it, and one point later Muguruza broke Williams’s serve, and she won the next game on her own. King noted that the best players in the world are the ones who can hit down the line off a crosscourt shot, the way Muguruza just had. Besides her technical ability, Muguruza also displayed impressive mental toughness to withstand the pressure that allowed her to win her first major title. At Wimbledon last year she acknowledged having had a case of nerves in the final against Williams, but on Saturday she shoved them aside. With Williams serving at   in the second set, Muguruza had four match points in a   game, and Williams saved them all and held serve. Undeterred, Muguruza came back and served out the set without dropping a point, culminating in her graceful lob. “I thought that ball was going out,” Williams said. “Yeah, but it didn’t. It was a really intense match point. ” As Mouratoglou said, there are more chances for Williams to get to 22 and perhaps beyond. He said he had no doubt she would do it. The next opportunity will be on the tight grass at Wimbledon. But King expressed some concern for how Williams looked both physically and mentally. King said she felt there was something wrong physically with Williams  —   perhaps the leg muscle  —   and that she never appeared happy on the court. “She’s not right,” King said, noting Williams’s sluggish footwork and downcast demeanor. “She needs to go take care of herself and don’t worry about the tennis right now. But grass is different. Maybe that will pep her up a little bit. ” NOTES In the men’s doubles final, Feliciano and Marc Lopez of Spain beat Bob and Mike Bryan of the United States,     (6)  .