Live coverage from Breitbart News of the coordinated attack on police in Dallas, Texas. All times CDT. [*** TOP UPDATES ***  • Five police officers killed, seven wounded in Dallas, Texas ambush attack• One suspect killed, three in custody  …     Police: Potentially more• Police: Suspect said he wanted to kill white people• Black Lives Matter protesters celebrated and taunted officers after the attack• Trump cancels rally: “We must restore law and order  …     Our nation has become too divided. ”• Slain suspect identified as Micah Xavier Johnson, 25, a former Army Reservist• Investigators change course, claim Johnson acted alone, ********************** Update 7:30: White House: Obama to visit Dallas next week: Statement by the Press Secretary on the President’s Travel to Spain and Dallas, Texas,   On Saturday, the President will depart for Madrid, Spain, where he will spend the night. The President will participate in meetings with his Spanish counterpart and other government officials on Sunday then travel to Rota as previously scheduled to speak to military personnel serving there. The President will return to Washington on Sunday night  —   one day earlier than planned. The President will no longer travel to Seville.    The President has accepted an invitation from Dallas Mayor Mike Rawlings to travel to Dallas early next week. Later in the week, at the White House, the President will continue the work to bring people together to support our police officers and communities, and find common ground by discussing policy ideas for addressing the persistent racial disparities in our criminal justice system. We’ll have more details about next week’s activities as soon as they are available. Update 6:20: Greg Abbott’s open letter calling for unity: A Time to Come Together, By Governor Greg Abbott  Our hearts are heavy. Last night in Dallas, five law enforcement officers were killed seven officers and two civilians were wounded. The coordinated ambush and deliberate, brutal executions were acts of cowardice  —   hiding behind innocents to target and savagely slaughter peace officers dedicated to preserving life and our freedoms. The full force of the law must ensure all responsible are brought to justice and our communities are kept secure. Justice will be served, but justice is small solace for the families left behind. We mourn for the families of the fallen, for the law enforcement community and for our nation. Respect for our law enforcement officers must be restored in our nation. The badge every officer wears over his or her heart is a reminder of a sacred trust, a commitment, a contract with each of us. For law enforcement officers to stand in front of us and all that threatens, we must stand behind them. Every life matters. With each innocent life lost, we lose more of our humanity. It is time for us to unite as Texans, as Americans, to say no more. No more will we tolerate disrespect for those who serve. No more will we allow the evil of hate merchants to tear us apart. Though anguish and sorrow may darken the days ahead, we will not be overcome by evil  —   we will overcome evil with good. Texas is an exceptional state with exceptional people. We’ve faced tough challenges in the past, but we have come together to overcome those challenges. In the coming days, there will be those who foment distrust and fan the flames of dissension. To come together  —   that would be the greatest rebuke to those who seek to tear us apart. There is far more that binds us together. We see that great strength in times of tragedy, in times of great need. Whether fire or flood or the acts of depraved individuals, Texans are the first to open their hearts, their homes, their wallets to offer charity and love. I ask for your prayers  —   for our law enforcement officers, for the city of Dallas, for our state and for our nation. May God comfort those who’ve lost a family member. And may God heal the hurt in our communities. I have faith in the goodness of Texas, of America. For in the end, evil always fails. Update 6:16: Abbott says he has no information on any   but he just wants to make sure “we button down every corner before we rule out any possible  . ” Update 6:13: Abbott says if there are   they will also receive the “justice they deserve. ” He says in the coming days, the primary message should be “unity. ” Abbott says Texas have always been resilient and that trademark resilience is needed now more than ever. Update 6:05: Abbott expresses his gratitude to Police Chief Brown for his “unrelenting resolve. ” He says Texas stands united with the city of Dallas and describes the past 24 hours as a “tale of two cities. ” “One the one hand, it’s been a tale of heroism of police officers. At the same time, it’s been a tale of cowardice by an assassin,” Abbott says, adding that he is so proud of the Dallas Police Department and Dallas Area Rapid Transit. Abbott says they have the respect of a great state and a governor who “has your back. ” Update: 5:55: After ignoring reporters throughout the week, Clinton chooses to talk about her email scandal today: Isn’t it sad that on a day of national tragedy Hillary Clinton is answering softball questions about her email lies on @CNN?  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 8, 2016,  Update 5:45: Texas Rangers ballplayer Joey Gallo honors slain police officer, recalls   conversation he and teammate Nomar Mazara had with him:  A couple months ago @nomazara26 and I were walking down the street in downtown Dallas. When an officer stopped us, Mazara and I immediately became nervous, ”I know who you guys are” he said. ”Joey Gallo and Nomar Mazara, can I get a picture with you guys please?” It was definitely a first for me and Nomar to have an officer, a true hero, want to meet us. His name is Patrick Zamarripa, one of the officers killed in last nights shootings in Dallas. I’ll never forget how kind and down to Earth he was. We ended up having a 15 minute conversation about sports with him. He was an avid Rangers fan. But more importantly a great person, and family man. Please keep Patrick, and all the officers affected and their families in our prayers today. #prayfordallas, A photo posted by Joey Gallo (@joeygallo24) on Jul 8, 2016 at 2:09pm PDT,  Update 5:40: Texas Gov. Abbott to address media tonight: Ready for a 5 p. m. press conference with Governor Greg Abbott and Dallas Mayor Mike Rawlings #DallasPoliceShooting pic. twitter.   —   John D. Harden (@Jdharden) July 8, 2016,  Update: 5:35: Many police departments are requiring officers to work in pairs after the Dallas police ambush: Police in Norfolk to patrol in pairs after #Dallas shootings. Washington D. C. police are doing the same. https:  .   —   WDBJ7 (@WDBJ7) July 8, 2016,  Police in San Jose patrolling in pairs in response to Dallas shooting https:  .   —   KRON 4 News (@kron4news) July 8, 2016,  Police in NY, Philly,  DC will now Patrol in pairs for safety. That means there will be less Police 2 protect us!  —   David  Benjamin (@thetoyman1) July 8, 2016,  Police in #Oakland also patrolling in pairs after shooting in Dallas that killed 4 officers https:  .   —   KRON 4 News (@kron4news) July 8, 2016,  Update: 5:13: Officers targeted in at least three states today after last night’s Dallas police massacre: BREAKING: Police say officers have been targeted in Tennessee, Georgia, Missouri in aftermath of police killings of black men.  —   The Associated Press (@AP) July 8, 2016,  Update: 5:12: SARAH PALIN: “#BLACKLIVESMATTER IS A FARCE AND HYPHENATING AMERICA DESTROYS US” #BlackLivesMatter is a Farce and Hyphenating America Destroys Us, Our prayers are with the fallen on that Thin Blue Line in Dallas. America lost heroes last night as men in uniform did their unfathomably courageous job running into danger to protect others from it. Honorable first responders deserve our outmost respect and support. Shame on our culture’s influencers who would stir contention and division that could lead to evil such as that in Dallas. Shame on politicians and pundits giving credence to thugs rioting against police officers and the rule of law in the name of “peaceful protests. ” It is a farce. #BlackLivesMatter is a farce. Media: quit claiming the rioters are “peaceful” as they stomp on our flag, shout “death to cops!” and celebrate violence. It is sick. You perpetuate a perverted message evil men thrive on to intimidate and warp malleable minds that would believe one race matters more than another. Blood is on your complicit hands when you naively or purposefully refuse to tell of this movement’s truth. Black Lives Matter? Yes  —   more than BLM “protestors” can grasp, as evidenced by their   provocateurism. Doesn’t it go without saying that Native lives matter, too? And Asian and Eskimo and Hispanic and Indian  …     and every other race comprised of people who see clearly the agenda at play to weaken America through disunity. Get fed up and stand up if you’re sick of being called racist when proclaiming EVERY LIFE MATTERS, black as much as white and every skin tone in between. Every innocent life  —   at every stage of life  —   on the side of good over evil, matters. Why let the damaging false narrative prevail if you know it is a lie?! Speak up! Join me in refusing to go willingly with society trying to crown deceptive political correctness the victor.   that put any race in front of being an American are now used to further divide our nation. It’s time to acknowledge you’re either an American under our system of equality, law and order  —   and traditional patriotic spirit  —   or you’re not. Knock off the hyphenation of who we are. And knock off the shoulder chip if you’ve let “leaders” burden you with it through their example that sadly capitalizes on division for untoward purposes. That chip is crushing the people’s hope. My youngest daughter recently confirmed the sensibility in this when she stated, “It would be sad to call myself an “ ” instead of just a proud American like everyone else. ” Seeing partial footage of this week’s victims’ tragic deaths at the hands of police officers is  . It’s nauseating. Granted, early reports rarely encapsulate all the facts of individual cases, but my heart is with victims’ families as I sympathize with anyone defenseless in these situations. More so, I empathize if we find out any cop involved was in the wrong, for I abhor bad cops. I abhor police union leadership that regularly protects bad cops and discredits citizens voicing concern over bad actors in authority. I’ve been there. Many of you know my own experience with   constant, frightening encounters and threats to my family to “bring us down” via a badge and gun. We suffered an exhausting era knowing we were defenseless against a bad cop, his union, and a gleefully politicized media never reporting the truth. Threats that included the promise we’d be pulled over for whatever reason, destroyed, and “any judge will believe the badge over the citizen. ” The   situation nearly devastated us. Political opponents still get off on all the situation cost us. So believe me, my personal experience won’t let me throw a blanket of blind approval over all law enforcement and those in authority. Still, last night’s disgusting acts that snuffed out officers’ lives is exponentially worse than any one bad cop, his union bosses, and the media’s verbose attempts to intimidate and falsely accuse. So if we’re to take sides, I side with the Thin Blue Line. To side with our public servants trying to keep law and order amidst political agendas that clearly oppose that virtue is how the good guys win again. It’s the only way to ensure our best days will be ahead of us. Join me. Do not let today’s agenda redefine what it means to be an American. Do not sit still for it to fundamentally transform America. God created us equally, and not with a spirit of fear. We’re given the spirit of POWER, love and a sound mind. (2 Timothy 1:7) Use it.  —   Sarah Palin, Update 5:10:   materials reportedly found in gunman’s home. JUST IN: Police:   materials, ballistic vests, rifles, ammo, personal journal of combat tactics found in Dallas gunman’s home.  —   NBC Nightly News (@NBCNightlyNews) July 8, 2016,  New investigative details from Dallas PD. https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Matt Pearce (@mattdpearce) July 8, 2016,  Update 5:03: May those who were murdered rest in peace and injured fully recover. Dallas Morning News profiles the victims who have been identified: Profiles in courage: A look at the lives of the Dallas ambush victims https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Dallas Morning News (@dallasnews) July 8, 2016,  Update 4:55: Hero and Patriot. The last Tweet from one of the Dallas police officers who was savagely massacred last night: Happy Birthday to the greatest country on the face of this planet. My beloved America!  —   Patrick Zamarripa (@PatrickEZ01) July 5, 2016,  The last tweet from fallen @DallasPD officer Patrick Zamarripa #RIP #ThinBlueLine https:  .   —   Trooper Ben (@TrooperBenKHP) July 8, 2016,    Update 4:52: Philando Castile’s girlfriend addresses the media after Dallas police massacred: Philando Castile’s girlfriend: Dallas ”Hurts me   …      My deepest condolences go out to those families.” https:  .   —   ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) July 8, 2016,    Update 4:50: Hillary Clinton talks about “implicit bias” that she claims everyone may still have: We have to be honest in facing implicit bias that all of us unfortunately may still have  —   @HillaryClinton https:  .   —   MSNBC (@MSNBC) July 8, 2016,  She also implies current political climate partly to blame for the Dallas cop murders. NO MENTION of the heinous   rhetoric from the left that is hardly denounced our shunned. ”Something has been unleashed in our nation where people are saying cruel  hateful things about one another”  —   HRC on current climate,  —   Monica Alba (@albamonica) July 8, 2016,  TX Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick: There is a lot of negative rhetoric geared toward police officers https:  .  https:  .   —   CNN Politics (@CNNPolitics) July 8, 2016,  Update 4:45: St. Louis police officer reportedly shot in ambush attack: Ballwin police officer was shot Friday morning during a traffic stop. It happened just after 11 a. m. in the 300 block of New Ballwin. Officials say the officer with the Ballwin Police Department had pulled over a Ford Taurus for a speeding violation. When he was walking back to his car, the suspect exited his vehicle and shot the officer from behind. The entire incident was captured on the officer’s dash cam.   More from the Associated Press: The St. Louis County police chief says the suspect the shooting of a police officer was on probation for a weapons violation in St. Louis. Chief Jon Belmar said Friday at a news conference that the suspect, who police say shot the officer as he was walking back to his car during a traffic stop, also had been on probation for a stolen vehicle in Oklahoma and was picked up for a firearm violation in California. He was paroled in 2015. Belmar said that the man likely will be charged in the shooting, which occurred shortly after 11 a. m. Friday in the west St. Louis suburb of Ballwin. Police said three shots were fired and the officer was at least hit once. He is in critical but stable condition in a local hospital. Authorities did not provide the race or identity of the officer or the suspect. Update 4:35: The mainstream media want to paint “false flag” conspiracy theorists as   folks who think the government wants to take away guns and get Hillary Clinton’s email scandal out of the news cycle, but the Daily Beast reports that a prominent Black Lives Matter activist suggested the horrific Dallas police massacre was a false flag operation meant to turn public opinion against the Black Lives Matter protesters: A prominent figure in the Black Lives Matter community took to Twitter on Friday morning to voice doubts about the previous night’s mass shooting at a Black Lives Matter protest in Dallas, Texas. On Friday afternoon, activist Johnetta Elzie suggested the massacre was intended to turn opinion against peaceful protesters. “I will not let go of the fact that I know cointelpro exists,” Elzie tweeted, echoing other users who have expressed suspicion over details of the shooting. “From my experience, whenever public opinion shifts to strongly support the movement an act of violence against the police happens,” she also suggested. Update 4:30: Cleveland tightens security plans: Cleveland police tell @NBCNews they have tightened security plan for RNC as a result of last night’s shooting in Dallas. @shaqbrewster,  —   Susan Kroll (@suekroll) July 8, 2016,  Update 4:25 PM EST: Obama calls Dallas police chief: JUST IN: Pres. Obama called #Dallas Police Chief and AG Lynch to receive update on investigation, White House says. pic. twitter.   —   ABC News (@ABC) July 8, 2016,  Update 3:20 p. m.: The Hill reports a man pulled a gun on a Black Lives Matter protester in Portland, Oregon.  Update 2:56 p. m.: USAToday is now reporting that Dallas police officials are pursuing a “single gunman” theory of the Thursday night shooting. The report states: The shooter, who did not have a criminal record, was identified as Micah Xavier Johnson, 25, of the Dallas suburb of Mesquite, said the official, who was not authorized to comment publicly. Although police feared for hours that at least one other sniper was involved and on the run, the official said Johnson is now believed to be the lone gunman. At least three others who were detained by police as possible suspects may have no connection with the attack or Johnson, the official said. Update 2:45 p. m.: CBS News reports an “eerie similarity” between the Dallas shooting and the shooting of a Tennessee police officer and injury of three others in June. Update 2:43 p. m.: Just days before his murder, Dallas Police Officer Patrick Zamarripa tweeted a celebratory Independence Day message. Happy Birthday to the greatest country on the face of this planet. My beloved America!  —   Patrick Zamarripa (@PatrickEZ01) July 5, 2016,  Update 2:30 p. m.: CBSDFW tweeted that Dallas Police Chief David Brown said the suspect seemed lucid during negotiations, expressed he wanted to kill white   officers, has anger towards #BlackLivesMatter. Chief: Suspect seemed lucid during negotiations. He expressed killing white   officers. He has anger towards #BlackLivesMatter.  —   CBSDFW (@CBSDFW) July 8, 2016,  Update 2:25 p. m.: Dallas Police Department sets up memorial in front of headquarters building. Two squad cars have been set up as #memorial in front of #DallasPolice HQ  @dartmedia. #PrayForDallas #PrayForDart pic. twitter.   —   Dallas Police Depart (@DallasPD) July 8, 2016,  Update 2:29 p. m. Texas Lt. Governor blames people on social media with hatred of cops for Dallas shooting. Update 2:14 p. m.: Daily Beast: Black Lives Matter activists suggest the attack last night was a false flag. Update 2:13 p. m.: Lynch reportedly taking unprecedented action. Loretta Lynch is launching the   federal hate crimes investigation following the Dallas cop massacre https:  .   —   New York Post (@nypost) July 8, 2016,  Update 1:49 p. m.: News. BREAKING: Investigators in Dallas shootings have ruled out any connection to terrorist organizations  —   White House,  —   Reuters Top News (@Reuters) July 8, 2016,  Update 1:21 p. m.: Dallas police chief now says Johnson acted on his own. #BREAKING Official: Micah Xavier Johnson believed to be lone gunman in Dallas attack https:  .   —   USA TODAY (@USATODAY) July 8, 2016,  Update 1:02 p. m.: What is this guy’s deal? Brian Williams, formerly the anchor of NBC’s “Nightly News,” went out of his way on repeated occasions to tie the incident to the 1963 assassination of President John F. Kennedy. Update 12:26 p. m.: Johnson’s Army headshot.  Update 12:19 p. m.: Reminder that more suspects are at large. Dallas PD Chief Brown, just now at Dallas rally, stating that they are pursuing ”suspects” in attack that was ”well planned”  —   Gabe Ramirez (@GabeRamirez) July 8, 2016,  Update 11:36 a. m.: Also in the Daily Beast article: the Pentagon says Johnson was deployed in Afghanistan. Update 11:34 a. m.: The inevitable Facebook profile search yields some helpful information: Johnson’s profile photo on Facebook shows him in a dashiki, holding a clenched fist in the air. Johnson’s cover photos are a black liberation flag and a black power fist. Johnson did not explicitly identify himself as a member of the Nation of Islam, a militant black Muslim group, but liked pages relating to Elijah Mohammed, the group’s deceased founder. Johnson also liked several militant and black separatist groups such as The New Black Panther Party and the African American Defense League. Johnson also liked the Black Riders Liberation Party, which describes itself as a “new generation” of Black Panthers. Update 11:25 a. m.: Lynch calls for gun control, surprising no one. Update 11:23 a. m.: Obama orders flags to half staff. JUST IN: Pres. Obama orders flags flown at   ”as a mark of respect for the victims” in #Dallas. pic. twitter.   —   ABC News (@ABC) July 8, 2016,  Update 11:15 a. m.: Attorney General Loretta Lynch says “The answer is never violence. ” Update 11:02 a. m.: Iraq War veteran killed. Officer Patrick Zamarripa survived tours in Iraq before being killed in Dallas https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Washington Post (@washingtonpost) July 8, 2016,  Update 10:57 a. m.: Details on Johnson’s military service: Johnson, who died in the incident, had served as an Army Reservist until April 2015, defense officials said. He was trained and served in the Army Reserves as a carpentry and masonry specialist, they said. Update 10:49 a. m.: Another name to honor. Michael Krol, 27, has been identified as one of the fallen DPD officers. #Dallas DETAILS:  https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   FOX 5 Atlanta (@FOX5Atlanta) July 8, 2016,  Update 10:47 a. m.: Eyewitness interview. Ismael Dejesus, another eyewitness, recorded from a hotel room, and said the assailant was wearing tactical clothing and got out of a Chevy Tahoe S. U. V. “Man had a rifle,   clear as day,” he said in an interview with CNN. “Pretty big magazine. And you can see towards the end of the video here that he goes ahead and drops a few mags. ” “He had multiple pockets, he had three to four pockets in front of his pants,” he added. “He definitely looked like he was wearing something in his shirt. ” “He got out of there, walked over to the pillar, put a magazine in and started firing. “It looked like an execution honestly. He stood over (the officer) after he was already down and shot him maybe three to four times in the back. It was very disturbing to watch. ” Update 10:41 a. m.: Statement from George W. Bush. #NEW Statement from Fmr President George W. Bush, who calls #Dallas home. @CBSDFW pic. twitter.   —   Jack Fink (@cbs11jack) July 8, 2016,  Update 10:16 a. m.: No criminal history. CNN: Micah Johnson, reported to be Dallas shooter, has no criminal history.  —   Ryan Hughes (@WFLARyan) July 8, 2016,  Update 10:11 a. m.: Photo of the killer slain by police robot. CBS reports he claimed to be a U. S. Army veteran, and Heavy has Facebook photos of him in uniform. NEW: Photo shows #Dallas shooting suspect ID’d as    Micah Xavier Johnson https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   CBS News (@CBSNews) July 8, 2016,  BREAKING: Law enforcement official tells CBS News Dallas cop killer Micah Xavier Johnson claimed to be a US Army Veteran.  —   David Begnaud (@DavidBegnaud) July 8, 2016,  Update 9:51 a. m.: More officers identified, with photos: First images of hero cops shot dead in Dallas revealed  https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Irish Sun (@IrishSunOnline) July 8, 2016,  Update 9:38 a. m.: City is holding a prayer vigil at noon. We will gather in prayer at Thanksgiving Square for the victims and families today at noon. @DPDChief @Mike_Rawlings pic. twitter.   —   Emily Black PIO (@EmilyPIODallas) July 8, 2016,  Update 9:33 a. m.: Statement from Wayne LaPierre. Statement by @NRA Executive Vice President  CEO Wayne LaPierre#DallasPoliceShooting #Dallas #NRA pic. twitter.   —   NRA News (@nranews) July 8, 2016,  Update 9:28 a. m.: Slain officer identified: 2) DART Officer Brent Thompson was among the 5 officers killed in Dallas: https:  .  #7things pic. twitter.   —   ABC7 News (@abc7newsbayarea) July 8, 2016,  Update 9:17 a. m.: Police name the deceased suspect. JUST IN: CBS News confirms suspected shooter who was killed by Dallas police has been identified as Micah Johnson.  —   CBS Los Angeles (@CBSLA) July 8, 2016,  Update 9:08 a. m.: Ted Cruz says he is working with local police to bring the perpetrators to justice. The men and women of the Dallas Police Department and the officers of Dallas Area Rapid Transit (DART) selflessly run into harm’s way to protect the lives of others. Tonight, we mourn the loss of four of their brothers. Our thoughts and prayers go out to these officers and their families, and to those who have been injured. My office is in close contact with the local authorities on the ground and we will be offering to provide whatever support we can to help in assisting the victims and bringing the perpetrators to justice. I encourage anyone with information about the suspects to contact the Dallas Police Department at (214)  . Update 8:52 a. m.: Heartbreaking, graphic video captures the moment one killer shot an officer at   range.  Update 8:49 a. m.: Sheriff David Clarke: “I hope, I pray that Donald J. Trump becomes the next    because we need a president who is going to stand beside us and support us all across the country unambiguously. ” View the video here. Update 8:47 a. m.: “Black Power Political Organization” claims credit for the attack.  Update 8:45 a. m.: Didn’t last long. UPDATE: U. S. Capitol police give ’ ’ to reopen   buildings,  —   Reuters Top News (@Reuters) July 8, 2016,  Update 8:35 a. m.: Capitol on lockdown in DC. WASHINGTON (AP)  —   The U. S. Capitol building is on lockdown, with police barring people from entering. The Senate seargant at arms issued a lockdown alert for the building and visitor center, saying police activity has been reported. Capitol office buildings are open. Capitol police say they are searching for an individual but offered no details. House press gallery staff says the building is on lockdown but that the House met briefly and immediately recessed. Voting scheduled to begin at 9:15 a. m. is postponed, gallery staff said. Update 8:33 a. m.: News on the wounded. UPDATE: most of 7 injured officers now released, should recover. 5 lost though. #Dallas https:  .   —   Todd Unger (@ToddWFAA8) July 8, 2016,  Update 8:32 a. m.: Hillary Clinton statement. I mourn for the officers shot while doing their sacred duty to protect peaceful protesters, for their families  all who serve with them.    —   Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) July 8, 2016,  Update 8:22 a. m.: More detail on the bomb robot. Dallas Police Chief: Police affixed a bomb to a   device and used that to take out suspect after hours of negotiations,  —   Jared Rizzi (@JaredRizzi) July 8, 2016,  Update 8:21 a. m.: Not good. #UPDATE Police in #Dallas are still not certain that they have identified everyone involved in the shooting attack. https:  .   —   News 4,   (@news4buffalo) July 8, 2016,  Update 8:14 a. m.: Video of protesters taunting police after the killings.  Update 8:10 a. m.: Heartbreaking info on one victim. wow, @mester_mark just reported the  Rapid Transit officer who was killed in the Dallas shooting has only been married for 2 wks  …     SO SAD!  —   Ginger Chan KTLA (@ktlagingerchan) July 8, 2016,  Update 8:07 a. m.: Trump reacts. Statement from @realDonaldTrump on the #Dallas shootings: https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Nick Thompson (@nickthompson) July 8, 2016,  Update 8:04 a. m.: Police robot killed suspect with bomb explosion. #BREAKING: Dallas police: Shooting suspect killed by bomb #WMTW,  —   David Charns (@DavidWMTW) July 8, 2016,  Update 8:01 a. m.: The final words of the dead fourth suspect in Dallas: “I want to kill white people. ” ’He wanted to kill officers and expressed anger. None of that is a legitimate reason for harming anyone.’ #Dallas pic. twitter.   —   Reuters Top News (@Reuters) July 8, 2016,  Dallas police shooting suspect’s final words: ‘I want to kill white people’ https:  .   —   The Independent (@Independent) July 8, 2016,  Update 8:00 a. m.: The Wall Street Journal summarizes events overnight in Dallas: Five police officers were killed and six were wounded after at least two snipers opened fire in Dallas on Thursday night during a protest over police brutality, throwing the city into chaos and turning parts of downtown into a massive crime scene by Friday morning. Dallas Police Chief David Brown said the snipers had opened fire on officers from “elevated positions” during the protests. A civilian was also wounded. Three suspects were taken into custody, including a woman. A fourth suspect exchanged gunfire with police in a tense, hourslong standoff with police overnight, but that confrontation ended early Friday morning, according to a city spokesperson. Sana Syed, a Dallas public information officer, said she couldn’t confirm the status of the fourth and final suspect, but said “the standoff is over. ” Update 7:57 a. m.: Dallas mayor Mike Rawlings has asked residents to come to Thanksgiving Square for a mass prayer at noon. Update 7:56 a. m.: Dallas Police Chief David Brown have told the press that one suspect was “upset about” the Black Lives Matter movement and wanted to kill white people, especially white police officers, but appeared to have acted independently. He did not want to read too much further into motives, or other suspects, he said. Brown also said that the free speech rights of Dallas residents would continue to be upheld. Update 7:55 a. m.: Reuters reports that there is no evidence yet of an international link to the shootings: No evidence yet of international links to Dallas shooting: U. S. officials https:  .   —   Reuters Live (@ReutersLive) July 8, 2016,  Meanwhile, details of some of the civilians injured in the shooting  —   presumably, by the snipers and not by the police  —   have been released: A mother of four was shot in the leg while shielding one of her boys during the Dallas sniper attack https:  .   —   New York Post (@nypost) July 8, 2016,  Update 7:53 a. m.: NBC reports that one suspect was killed by a police bomb robot: [Dallas Mayor Mike] Rawlings said the suspect involved in an overnight standoff with police died after officers used explosives to “blast him out. ” Rawlings said he was not sure how the suspect died or what weapons were found on him. He said police have swept the area where the standoff took place and found no explosives. Police said earlier three other suspects were in custody in connection with the shooting. Update 7:45 a. m.: The Associated Press reports a motive for the killings  —   namely, outrage at recent shootings of black men by police, and a desire to “kill whites. ” BREAKING: Dallas police chief says suspect said he was upset about recent shootings, wanted to kill whites.  —   The Associated Press (@AP) July 8, 2016,  Update 7:43 a. m.: As officials around the country react, some offer solidarity with Dallas and with police, but some seem to equivocate. As Breitbart California reports: Political leaders and law enforcement officials in Los Angeles have expressed outrage at the murders of five police officers at a Black Lives Matter protest in Dallas. In contrast, officials in San Francisco and Oakland equivocated, or ignored the event. Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti spoke out on Twitter: “Tonight’s assassinations undermine our democracy and were an attack on us all. We cannot let hate spread like a disease in our country. ”   …     Oakland mayor Libby Schaaf had little to say about events in Dallas. Her most recent tweet, as of Friday morning, was a retweeted message supporting Black Lives Matter  …       …     San Francisco mayor Ed Lee addressed the police killings, but created an implied moral equivalence between police murdered in cold blood and black men killed by police in the course of duty: Tonite we grieve for the Dallas officers, for too many young Black men, for our country. Stop the violence. We can  must do better. #Dallas,  —   Edwin Lee (@mayoredlee) July 8, 2016,  Update 7:26 a. m.: As people around the country struggle to make sense of the killings, at least one prominent law enforcement voice is blaming President Barack Obama directly: American needs Obama to get out of bed  address Dallas situation NOW. He poured gas on this situation with his dog whistle message earlier.  —   David A. Clarke, Jr. (@SheriffClarke) July 8, 2016,  Update 7:17 a. m.: Many part of Dallas are still an active crime scene. Access to parts of the city severely restricted. Update 7:14 a. m.: a. m.: Police chief: Whoever organized the ambush knew the route of the march https:  .  #Dallas,  —   USA TODAY (@USATODAY) July 8, 2016,  Update 7:07 a. m.: a. m.: UPDATE: Dallas mayor: 12 officers were shot during sniper attack 5 have died.  —   Micah Grimes (@MicahGrimes) July 8, 2016,  Update 4:22 a. m.: President Obama took a moment when he was attending a NATO summit in Poland to address the execution of five officers in Dallas at a Black Lives Matter protest. He said the officers in Dallas who were killed were “targeted” and added, “We are horrified over these events. ” He also called the attacks “vicious” and “calculated” but took the opportunity to say that the issue of “these types of weapons” will be considered in the [near] future. Update 3:24 a. m.: CBSDFW reported that DART officials have released the name of three of their officers who were injured in the shooting. In addition to Officer Misty McBride who was identified earlier in the evening, the other officers are Officer Omar Cannon and Jusus Retana. Update 3:20 a. m.: Video on CBSDFW shows police rendering military salute as bodies of fallen officers are removed from Parkland Hospital. A motorcycle escort was seen leaving the hospital with vans believed to be carrying the bodies.  Update 3:04 a. m.: News outlets reporting that a Dallas police detective has confirmed that the shooting suspect in the El Centro College building is “dead. ” Two “suspicious devices” have been found. NEW: A #Dallas PD detective confirms to me shooting suspect is “dead. ” Also, 2 “suspicious devices” have been found pic. twitter.   —   Ben Russell (@BenRussellNBC5) July 8, 2016,  Update 3:01 a. m. Fox News is reporting the final known suspect shot himself and is now dead. SWAT officers have been seen tearing down their setup and moving out of the area. Update 2:42 a. m.: People are beginning to gather at the police department building. One of those who gathered told Fox 4, “This was not Black Lives Matter. ” He told Fox 4 that he thought someone just showed up to do what they were going to do, and that Black Lives Matter protesters had been peaceful.  Update 2:39 a. m.: Fox 4 News reporting that this is the worst attack on law enforcement since  . Update 2:31 a. m.: Dallas Police Department photo from earlier Friday morning. Packed Command Post operations tonight. We all knew the fallen. #dallasshooting pic. twitter.   —   Maj. Max Geron (@MaxDPD) July 8, 2016,  Update 2:24 a. m.: Fox 4 reporting that the barricaded suspect shot himself. Sources tell @NBCDFW the #Dallas shooting suspect has been “neutralized. ” https:  .  #NBCDFWNow pic. twitter.   —   Ben Russell (@BenRussellNBC5) July 8, 2016,  Update 2:21 a. m.: Men lighting candles in front of the police department.  Update 2:12 a. m.: NBC5 reporting that people are being escorted back to vehicles from the federal building in downtown Dallas. People being escorted back to vehicles from federal building in downtown Dallas. @NBCDFW pic. twitter.   —   Meredith Yeomans (@YeomansNBC5) July 8, 2016,  Update 2:12 a. m.: Shatamia Taylor was shot in the ankle as she tried to run with her children. The mother of four sons was wearing a Superman shirt. Fox 4 reported that she was so sorry for the officers that lost their lives tonight. Update 2:11 a. m.: Mayor Mike Rawlings and Police Chief Brown just arrived at Baylor Medical Center to visit the wounded there. . @Mike_Rawlings  @DPDChief just arrived at Baylor to visit injured here @FOX4 #dallaspoliceshooting pic. twitter.   —   Lynnanne Nguyen FOX4 (@LynnanneFOX4) July 8, 2016,  Update 2:13 a. m. El Centro College reports that all students and faculty have now been rescued from the building, CBSDFW reported. Update 2:09 a. m.: U. S. Senator Ted Cruz responded to the shooting of the police officers in Dallas. “The men and women of the Dallas Police Department and the officers of Dallas Area Rapid Transit (DART) selflessly run into harm’s way to protect the lives of others,” Senator Cruz wrote in a statement obtained by Breitbart Texas. “Tonight, we mourn the loss of four of their brothers. Our thoughts and prayers go out to these officers and their families, and to those who have been injured. My office is in close contact with the local authorities on the ground and we will be offering to provide whatever support we can to help in assisting the victims and bringing the perpetrators to justice. I encourage anyone with information about the suspects to contact the Dallas Police Department at (214)  . ” Update 2:06 a. m.: DART officials have identified the officer that was killed as Officer Brent Thompson, 43. Thompson is the first DART officer to be killed in the line of duty. He joined the department in 2009. DART grieving the loss of Ofc Brent Thompson, 43, killed during Thurs protest. First DART officer killed in line of duty. Joined DART 2009.  —   dartmedia (@dartmedia) July 8, 2016,  Update: 2:03 a. m.: CBSDFW reports hearing multiple   type devices coming from the area of the El Centro garage. Update 1:58 a. m.: Fox 4 reporting that the suspect that is cornered is wounded, shot more than once, and law enforcement officers will check with a robot to see if he has explosives strapped to his body. A camera is probably on the robot and can view the suspect. Update 1:57 a. m.: Mayor Mike Rawlings and Chief David Brown seen in video leaving Parkland hospital. Update 1:48 a. m. Fox 4 News is now reporting a fifth officer has died from injuries sustained in the shooting in Dallas Thursday night. Four DPD officers and one DART officer. CBSDFW reported the Dallas police union reported the latest death. #BREAKING ~ A fourth Dallas PD officer has died after Thursday night’s shooting in downtown. Total of 5 officers now dead.  —   FOX 4 NEWS (@FOX4) July 8, 2016,  Update 1:43 a. m.: Video of “person of interest” Mark Hughes turning over his weapon to police as reported earlier by CBSDFW. The definition of cool heads prevailing. https:  .   —   Andrew Berkshire (@AndrewBerkshire) July 8, 2016,  Update 1:38 a. m.: CBSDFW is interviewing Mark Hughes who has been released by police after being questioned about the rifle he was carrying. He said he is concerned about his safety. He said police have confiscated his clothes and firearm. Update 1:29 a. m.: Police are searching a police car parked outside Baylor’s hospital. It appears the vehicle was at the scene of the shooting earlier and was perhaps used to transport an injured officer to the hospital, according to CBSDFW. Update 1:24 a. m.: CBSDFW showed a video of Mark Hughes handing over his   rifle to police as his brother and friends reported late Thursday night. He was seen on video and in photographs openly carrying the rifle in a   manner. Texas allows any   citizen to openly carry long guns. Handguns can be openly carried or concealed carried only by licensed individuals. The local affiliate reported hearing a loud bang in the area near the El Centro College garage where the suspect is said to be in a standoff with police. Update 1:20 a. m.: Fox News’ Ted Williams is calling the attack an “orchestrated assassination of police. ” Update 1:14 a. m.: CBSDFW is reporting that the situation at the   store resulted from a looting incident where people were stealing food and beer. Update 1:11 a. m.: Fox News is reporting that ATF agents are on the scene with bomb detection dogs searching the area. Update 1:03 a. m.: CBSDFW is reporting that Dallas police officers will be supplemented by officers from other police departments in the area. Police cars from Arlington and Irving police departments have been seen in Dallas as DPD officers focused on the downtown area. Update 1:01 a. m.: NBC Nightly News is reporting the FAA has issued flight restrictions for the airspace over Dallas. The area is an approach route to Dallas Love Field. FAA issues flight restriction over downtown Dallas mass shooting attack scene as situation develops.  —   NBC Nightly News (@NBCNightlyNews) July 8, 2016,  Update 12:58 a. m.: DART officials have sent a bus to the scene to take riders away from the area. Scheduled bus service to the downtown area is currently shut down. DART brings a bus to the scene to take riders to another location. No buses running downtown bc of active shooter. pic. twitter.   —   Diana Zoga (@DianaZogaFox4) July 8, 2016,  Update 12:54 a. m.: Texas Governor Greg Abbott reported in a written statement obtained by Breitbart Texas he is cutting short an out of state trip and is heading directly to Dallas. The governor has spoken with Dallas Mayor Mike Rawlings to express his condolences. He pledges assistance from the State of Texas for the City of Dallas’ needs. Update 12:47 a. m.: Fox News is reporting live coverage of the tense situation outside a   store that has been closed. It is not known why the people are upset with police at this location but the situation appears to be very intense. Update 12:46 a. m.: CBSDFW. Eyewitness describes the scene of a woman who was shot in the leg. The woman reportedly fell on her daughter to protect her. She said the woman’s three boys ran off and were later found safe. Update 12:43 a. m. Fox news reported the police chief stated the suspect in the garage is still exchanging gunfire with the police. He said he intends to kill more officers. No report has been made about the shooters’ motivation for the highly coordinated attack. Update 12:40 a. m.: Chief says four suspects were working together and were “triangulating” their shots from an elevated position. He said the suspects are not cooperating at this time but are being interrogated. He said this took a lot of planning. Dallas police are monitoring social media for clues. The chief and mayor left the early morning press conference to go to the hospital where officers are being treated. Update 12:38 a. m.: Mayor Mike Rawlings said much of downtown Dallas is now a crime scene and will be for much of the following day or days. The city will post crime scene area on city’s website. “It is a heartbreaking morning in Dallas,” the mayor said. Update 12:34 a. m.: Dallas Police Chief reports his officers are “in negotiations” with a suspect in a second floor of a garage.  A woman described as a suspect is also in custody. Two other suspects in a Mercedes are also in custody. Suspect in garage told police “The end is coming. There are bombs all over the place. ” “We still are not comfortable that we have all of the suspects in custody. ” “We are continuing to fight the good fight,” Chief Brown said. Update 12:33 a. m.: CBSDFW is reporting an incident outside a   store in Dallas. Police are lined up outside the store and a large crowd is confronting the police.  Update 12:26 a. m.: Dallas Omni Hotel lights up in blue lights in support of Dallas police officers killed and wounded in shooting attack. Update 12:23 a. m.: KHOU CBS11 in Houston reported that the Houston police are in a “heightened” alert setting following the shootings in Dallas. “They’re very worried because this makes our job infinitely harder,” said Joe Gamaldi, second vice president of the Houston Police Officers Union, on Thursday. “All of a sudden, you’ll have people walking by that start screaming at the officer saying, ‘Don’t kill that individual,’ or, ‘Don’t do this,’ and it does make our job a lot harder. ” Update 12:22 a. m.: NBC is reporting the Dallas shooting is one of the deadliest attacks on U. S. law enforcement since 1900. Update 12:16 a. m.: Witnesses are telling CBSDFW that the man earlier described as a “person of interest” turned in his rifle to police almost immediately after the shooting began. “We were all marching peacefully. This is an open carry state. ” He said he was with Corey the entire time. Update 12:15 a. m.: Texas Governor Greg Abbott ordered Department of Public Safety troopers to “offer whatever assistance the City of Dallas needs  …    ” My statement on the #DallasPoliceShooting tonight pic. twitter.   —   Gov. Greg Abbott (@GovAbbott) July 8, 2016,  Update 12:11 a. m.: CBSDFW reported receiving a text message that at least one of the officers has survived the surgery to repair his or her wound or wounds. Update 12:07 a. m.: CBSDFW is reporting the Houston Police Department has ordered its officers into   units. They are also ordered to wait for backup at all calls. Update 12:06 a. m.: NBCDFW tweets photo of police sergeant in tears at a local hospital: Please pray for Dallas and North Texas tonight: https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   NBC DFW (@NBCDFW) July 8, 2016,  Update 12:03 a. m.: Official statement from Dallas Police Department: Update: pic. twitter.   —   Dallas Police Depart (@DallasPD) July 8, 2016,  Update 12:01 a. m.: Video from WIS News 10 earlier in the evening Thursday night: Terrifying eyewitness video recorded on a rooftop in downtown Dallas by @allisongriz: pic. twitter.   —   WIS News 10 (@wis10) July 8, 2016,  Update 12:00 a. m.: Fox4 News reports on how the suspects came to be in custody. Latest update on #DallasShooting from Dallas police. Continuing coverage here: https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   FOX 4 NEWS (@FOX4) July 8, 2016,  Update 11:56: Fox News is reporting that both suspects are in custody. Both suspects are alive. The danger to the community is reported to be over, Fox reported. Update 11:54: CBSDFW is reporting that two people are in custody after a police chase on   south of the downtown Dallas area. #UPDATE Two people in custody after reported police chase on   south of downtown Dallas. (Chopper11) pic. twitter.   —   CBSDFW (@CBSDFW) July 8, 2016, Update 11:51: Video being shown on Fox News from earlier in the evening shows a man standing outside a building shooting a rifle at police. The video is being shot from a building above the scene. The video shows the shooter running back around a pillar of the building and shooting a person who appears to be a police officer. Officers move forward shortly after to help the wounded officer and pursue the shooter. Update 11:49: CBSDFW tweeted a photo of Dallas DART police officer Misty McBride. The officers was shot once in the shoulder and once in the abdomen. She is reported by her husband to be awake and in good spirits while awaiting surgery. Misty McBride, shot twice, has been with the DART for 5 years is recovering at Baylor Hospital, her father tells us. pic. twitter.   —   CBSDFW (@CBSDFW) July 8, 2016,  Update 11:47: NBC is reporting in the San Francisco Bay Area that protesters are getting ready to march in Oakland. Update 11:43: Milwaukee County Sheriff David Clarke, Jr. tweeted “America needs Obama to get out of bed  address Dallas situation NOW. He poured gas on this situation with his dog whistle message earlier. ” American needs Obama to get out of bed  address Dallas situation NOW. He poured gas on this situation with his dog whistle message earlier.  —   David A. Clarke, Jr. (@SheriffClarke) July 8, 2016,  Update 11:42: WFAA in Dallas is reporting video of police on a freeway reportedly where they took a suspect into custody. They report this as a coordinated attack with two shooters. Nearly 1, 000 men, women, and children were attending the protest. Update 11:39: CBSDFW is now reporting two suspects are in custody and a suspicious package has been found and is being secured. Two Suspects In Custody Suspicious Package Found Being Secured By DPD  —   READ MORE: https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   CBSDFW (@CBSDFW) July 8, 2016,  Update 11:37: Fox News reports that uniformed deputy U. S. Marshalls  have arrived at the scene. Texas National Guard soldiers are reported by Fox News to be on the way. At least one of the snipers was involved in a shootout with police and is now in custody. Update 11:35: Dallas PD officially reports the death of the fourth officer: Update: pic. twitter.   —   Dallas Police Depart (@DallasPD) July 8, 2016,  Update 11:33: Fox News is reporting an alleged suspect was in a shootout with police and is now in custody. A package has been taken by the bomb squad. Update 11:31: Fox News is reporting snipers planned “triangulating” shots. They were reported to be shooting from multiple positions indicating advanced planning. The man described as a “person of interest” Cory Hughes, is reportedly in police custody at this time. His brother told CBSDFW he was armed at the protest but was not one of the shooters. Update 11:27: WFAA reported on a DART female police officer who was shot and is now in the hospital awaiting surgery. Richard McBride said his wife is one of the DART officers that was wounded in the attack. Their daughter, Hunter, was with him as he talked with reporters. She is   . CBSDFW is reporting the officer’s name is Misty McBride. She is “alert and okay. ” Update 11:14: Dallas police say they are searching for a possible bomb. Fox News is reporting a 4th police officer has died and no suspects are in custody. #BREAKING DPD chief says thorough search in progress for possible bomb planted downtown.  —   CBSDFW (@CBSDFW) July 8, 2016,  Update 11:14: CBSDFW is reporting the man is the suspect is not the shooter. His name is Mark Hughes according to his brother Cory Hughes. Cory is saying his brother did have a gun downtown but he did not shoot it and he is not the shooter. “He did have a firearm. He did have an   with him. I told him to go give that gun to the police so there would be no question about the shooting. People, trust me, there is no way it is him!” Update 11:08: NBC is reporting an eleventh officer shot. JUST IN: Dallas Police: 11th officer shot in exchange with suspect in downtown Dallas being transported to hospital.  —   NBC Nightly News (@NBCNightlyNews) July 8, 2016,  Update 11:01: Dallas Mayor Mike Rawlings asks people to focus on praying for police.  Fox News now reports that 11 officers have been shot and one civilian. The chief is reporting one suspect is “trapped” at this time. Update 11:00: Dallas police chief is calling the man in the photo a “person of interest” and is asking for the public’s assistance in identifying him. Update 10:59: Fox 4 is now reporting that one civilian woman has been shot in the leg. Update 10:56: Dallas PD releases a photo of a suspect they are searching for. This is one of our suspect. Please help us find him! pic. twitter.   —   Monica Cordova (@MonicaDPD) July 8, 2016,  Update 10:55: WFAA now reporting an eleventh officer has been shot. Three officers are dead, three in critical condition. Two officers are in surgery. Update 10:51: Dallas County Sheriff tweets request for prayer for police: @Dallas_Sheriff is praying for our law enforcement partners @DallasPD and @dartmedia during this difficult time.  —   DSO (@Dallas_Sheriff) July 8, 2016,  Update 10:45: Statement from Dallas Police Chief: Update 10:43: Fox News reporting three officers dead, two in surgery. Update 10:41: Fox 4 Jason Whitely from Fox 4 reports Homeland Security police arriving on the scene. NEW: @DPDChief confirms 10 officers shot, three dead, two in surgery, three in critical condition. No suspects in custody.  —   FOX 4 NEWS (@FOX4) July 8, 2016, Update 10:40: Fox 4 is reporting that police are still searching for two shooters. Police are clearing multiple buildings in the area. Update 10:38: CBS 11 is calling the shooting an “absolute ambush” as a sniper appears to have opened fire on police from an elevated position. Update 10:37: Tweet from Fox 4 Dallas: NEW: @DPDChief confirms 10 officers shot, three dead, two in surgery, three in critical condition. No suspects in custody.  —   FOX 4 NEWS (@FOX4) July 8, 2016,  Update 10:33: Dallas Police are reporting that 10 officers have been shot and at least three are dead, according to CBS 11. “No suspects are currently in custody at this time. ” The dead officers include two from Dallas PD and one from DART. Update 10:32: Fox4 Jason Whitely tweeted that six total officers are shot.  Fox News is reporting that at least three officers are dead. Update 10:25: CBS 11 is taking a woman into custody. The reporter is not sure why the woman is being arrested. One officer did have his weapon drawn during the arrest. Update 10:25: Eyewitness on CBS 11 reports “absolute chaos” during shooting. He said he directed the police towards the shooter and they responded with about   shots in the direction of the shooter. He said he saw the shooter shooting down from the building. “I did not see any protesters being shot. ” “One of the officers was shot through his vest,” the witness said. “I heard shots hitting the concrete. ” He said he saw two officers hit by gunfire. Update 10:25: Fox News reported that Texas Attorney General stated: “The Texas Attorney General’s Office will provide every measure of support in this difficult and developing situation. ” Update 10:24: CBS 11 reports multiple strings of at least 20  —   30 shots fired from a high powered rifle. Update 10:20: CBS 11 in Dallas. DART reports officially that three of their officers have been shot. One officer was taken to Baylor. Others taken to Parkland. One officer at Parkland was reportedly shot in the arm and will be okay. Update 10:17: Fox 4 reports that all available officers have been called in. Update 10:16: Officers escorted about a dozen college students from El Centro College after shooting, Fox 4 reported. Update 10:15: Texas Lt. Governor Dan Patrick said in a statement obtained by Breitbart Texas, “Thoughts and prayers are with the police officers who were shot in Dallas tonight. ” Update 10:11: “Evil showed up and hid in bullet proof vests. It was in their heart to go and do something of this nature. ” Rabb reported. “There are some officers who have been wounded who are gravely ill. ” Update 10:08: Shawn Rabb of Fox 4 is reporting “multiple officers in grave condition. As many as five or six officers gravely. This is going to be an horrific night here in the city of Dallas. ” Update 10:07: Fox News is reporting multiple shooters according to Fox 4 in Dallas. First shooter is reportedly “neutralized” while the second shooter is reported to be negotiating with police. Update 10:06: Eyewitness tells Fox 4 “As we resumed the march, we heard what sounded like a bunch of firecrackers going off. ” He said women and children were running for their lives. Update 10:05: Fox 4 eyewitness “I am happy to be alive. ” Update 10:04: Fox4 now reporting a DART (Dallas Area Rapid Transit) police officer has been shot and is not doing well. Update 10:04: Video from @AandyCole84: Video from a protestor as the shooting began. Jesus. Disturbing content. #Dallas #DallasPoliceShooting pic. twitter.   —   Andy Cole (@AndyCole84) July 8, 2016,  Update 10:00: Fox4 now reporting one of the injured officers is a Dallas Police Sergeant the other is a Dallas police patrol officer. Update 10:00: Active shooter still on the scene. Tweet from Fox4 reporter at Baylor Hospital: Scene at Baylor, people outside say they’ve been here for 45 min and can’t get into hospital @FOX4 pic. twitter.   —   Lynnanne Nguyen FOX4 (@LynnanneFOX4) July 8, 2016,  Update 9:59 Police can be seen searching one man in handcuffs. It does not appear that this man is the shooter. Update 9:58: Fox 4 reports at least two police officers have been injured from the shooting. Officers have now moved to the Omni Hotel in the area and then “calmly walked back this way. ” The Omni report appears to have not checked out. Update 9:57: Tweet from Fox4 reporter: Have not heard shots for a while now. Police still taking cover. Active shooter has NOT been caught. pic. twitter.   —   Diana Zoga (@DianaZogaFox4) July 8, 2016,  Update 9:55: WFAA now reports the shooter was firing from the Texas building. An injured police officer has been transported to Parkland Hospital. Police are still searching for the shooter. Update 9:53: Witness told Fox News he saw one police officer with a “patch on his arm” from being shot. Update 9:49: Bautista video during shooting: Update 9:47: Michael Kevin Bautista, a witness to the shooting, told a Fox News reporter he saw bullets striking a car and at least one police officer being shot. Update 9:44: WFAA in Dallas is reporting the shooter is still active. More gunfire was just heard by news anchor. “Get off of the streets of downtown Dallas. ” He said the shooter is on the street attempting to engage police officers. Witnesses said there was a barrage of gunfire. In a video playback multiple shots could be heard. Update 9:42: Dallas Morning News reported earlier on Thursday that the event organizer was Rev. Dr. Jeff Hood. “It is important to allow people to grieve first and foremost,” the reverend said. “Then we want to create a space for anger and rage so people can get that out. ” Update 9:41: Fox News reports police with ballistic shields moving towards where the shooter is believed to be hiding. Update 9:39: WJLA reports the Dallas protest was in support of the Black Lives Matter movement. Update 9:31: Live video feed from WFAA in Dallas: Update 9:29 p. m.: Two officers stuck by gunfire during Dallas protest, according to reports from scene https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   ABC7 Eyewitness News (@ABC7) July 8, 2016,  Update 9:26 p. m.: Local Fox station reporting protesters chanting “F*ck the Police” chants before shooting. It appears shots have been fired at police during a protest about the shooting of two black men in other states this week. A live video feed on Fox News showed what appeared to be at least three police officers lying on the ground, “We have shots fired: Police officers down,” said Josh Stephens, a WFAA reporter on a live feed from downtown Dallas Thursday night. “We saw a police officer who was injured being hauled off in the back of a police car,” the WFAA reported said describing the scene. “A suspect with a green vest, possibly a tactical vest, is believed to be in a nearby parking garage,” he said. #ALERT MT @cbs11doug: Crowd on the run downtown #Dallas. Reports of an officer shot at the protest march: pic. twitter.   —   Jason Lamarche (@Lamarche) July 8, 2016,  Fox News reported that at least two officers have been shot. Their condition is not known. This is a developing story and will be updated as new information is available. Police appear to be concentrating their search on a   parking garage in the downtown area. Officers can be seen moving in teams around the building. Fox News is reporting the garage is located at Lamar and Commerce streets. It is being described as an active shooter situation. Breitbart Texas was watching the live feed on Fox News when the crowd suddenly reacted to the sound of gunfire. Many people began running from the scene. TV cameramen could be seen running towards the shooting scene located a few blocks away from the initial video stream. When the cameraman arrived on the scene, it appeared two or three officers were laying on the ground motionless. The WFAA reporter described the sound as coming from a high powered rifle. The protest appeared to be completely peaceful until the shooting began. One witness stated the protest was about to break up when the shooting began. Brandon Darby and others with Breitbart News staff contributed to this report. Lana Shadwick is a contributing writer and legal analyst for Breitbart Texas. She has served as a prosecutor and associate judge in Texas. Follow her on Twitter @LanaShadwick2. Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas. He is a founding member of the Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX.