According to the former head of the Vatican’s highest court, Cardinal Raymond Burke (pictured) Muslims and Christians do not worship the same God, since Allah is a “governor,” whereas Christianity was “founded on love. ”[The modern belief that Islam and Christianity are fundamentally the same “is very much influenced by a relativism of a religious order,” the Cardinal said at a recent press conference.  “I hear people saying to me, well, we’re all worshipping the same God. We all believe in love. But I say stop a minute, and let’s examine carefully what Islam is, and what our Christian faith teaches us. ” “I don’t believe it’s true that we’re all worshipping the same God, because the God of Islam is a governor,” Burke said. “Sharia is their law, and that law, which comes from Allah, must dominate every man eventually. ” The Cardinal said that unlike Christianity, sharia is “not a law that’s founded on love. To say that we all believe in love is simply not correct. ” Not only do Christianity and Islam differ in the nature of their laws, Burke proposed, but also in their approach to proselytism and winning over converts. In the end, he said, we have to understand that “what they believe most deeply, that to which they ascribe in their hearts, demands that they govern the world. ” The Cardinal’s words echoed recent remarks by a senior Catholic prelate in Hungary, who warned that the enormous waves of migrants rolling into Europe are due in no small part to a Muslim “will to conquer. ” “Jihad is a principle for Muslims that means they must expand,” said Archbishop Gyula Marfi in an August interview. “The earth must become dar   that is, Islamic territory, by introducing Sharia —  Islamic law. ” Both prelates’ words, in fact, find confirmation in recent assertions by the Islamic State itself in the latest issue of its propaganda magazine, Dabiq. “Indeed, waging jihad  —   spreading the rule of Allah by the sword  —   is an obligation found in the Quran, the word of our Lord,” the text reads. The Islamic State was specifically reacting to Pope Francis’ claims that the war being waged by Islamic terrorists is not religious in nature, assuring the pontiff that their sole motivation is religious and sanctioned by Allah in the Qur’an. “This is a   war between the Muslim nation and the nations of disbelief,” the authors state in an article titled “By the Sword. ” ISIS attacked Francis for his claim that “authentic Islam and the proper reading of the Quran are opposed to every form of violence. ” Pope Francis “has struggled against reality” in his efforts to portray Islam as a religion of peace, the article insists, before going on to urge all Muslims to take up the sword of jihad, the “greatest obligation” of a true Muslim. In a July press conference, Pope Francis told journalists that the world is at war, but that is not a religious war. “Every religion wants peace,” he said. In his press conference, Cardinal Burke insisted that “what’s most important for us today is to understand Islam from its own documents and not to presume that we know already what we’re talking about. ” Follow Thomas D. Williams on Twitter  Follow @tdwilliamsrome