The outspoken South African Cardinal Wilfrid Napier has called for an apology for the massive human deaths at the hands of the U. S. abortion industry, and in particular the disproportionate number of black babies that have been aborted, which he refers to as “genocide. ”  In a series of tweets Saturday, Cardinal Napier quoted figures from Planned Parenthood’s own Guttmacher Institute, estimating that since the 1973 Roe v. Wade Supreme Court decision more than 57 million babies have been legally aborted in the United States. “Isn’t this something we should be apologizing for?” Napier asks rhetorically.   Guttmacher Institute estimates that since 1973 USA has aborted 57 million+ babies! Isn’t this something we should be apologizing for?  —   Cardinal Napier (@CardinalNapier) July 2, 2016,  The Cardinal goes on to lament the fact that some 31% of those 57 million babies have been black, and again asks whether such an egregious offense against blacks is not worth an apology.   Of those 57 million+ babies disproportionate number, +   31% have been Black! Isn’t that also something we should be apologizing for?  —   Cardinal Napier (@CardinalNapier) July 2, 2016,  In his third tweet, however, Napier upped the ante still further, stating that such a figure “starts looking like a genocide when one factors in that Black women make up only 13% of total number of women in USA. ”   That figure starts looking like a genocide when one factors in that Black women make up only 13% of total number of women in USA,  —   Cardinal Napier (@CardinalNapier) July 2, 2016,  Whatever the intent of the abortion industry, by functional standards, abortion is a racist institution in the United States, with black children aborted at nearly four times the rate of white children. Among white women, there are 138 abortions for every 1000 live births among blacks, there are 501 abortions for every 1000 births. This means that blacks are aborted at 3. 6 times the rate of whites. According to the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) between 2007 and 2010, nearly 35. 4 percent of the deaths by abortion in the United States happened to black babies, despite the fact that blacks represent only 12. 8 percent of the population. Conversely,   whites, who make up 63. 7% of America’s population, account for only 37. 7% of all U. S. abortions. Cardinal Napier is not alone in decrying this outrage to the black community. The Reverend Clenard H. Childress similarly calls this phenomenon “black genocide,” and has built a national ministry around its exposure. Childress cites an estimate that since 1973 black women in America have had some 16 million abortions, and without it, America’s black community would now number some 52 million persons. It seems only logical that if “black lives” truly mattered to black leadership —  beginning with the    —  they would dismantle the establishment responsible for the deaths of its members and expend a little effort protecting the lives of unborn black children. But as Cardinal Napier suggests, an apology would be a good start. Follow Thomas D. Williams on Twitter  Follow @   <! [CDATA[! function( d,s, id){var js, fjs=d. getElementsByTagName( s)[0],p= ^