A veteran Republican strategist now helping lead a “super PAC” in support of Donald J. Trump argued in a confidential memo last year that it would be dangerous to give Mr. Trump the power to launch a global war. The strategist, Alex Castellanos, has acknowledged that he had been publicly critical of Mr. Trump, but said on Sunday that he now considered Mr. Trump a superior choice to Hillary Clinton. In a private document presented to top Republican donors last fall, however, Mr. Castellanos suggested that Mr. Trump could be a threat to American security as president. He and another strategist, Gail Gitcho, drew up plans for a group named ProtectUS, and proposed to spend heavily against Mr. Trump in the Republican primaries. In the memo, Mr. Castellanos proposed to urge voters not to put Mr. Trump “in the Big Chair in the Oval Office, with responsibilities for worldwide confrontation at his fingertips. ” He also intended to highlight Mr. Trump’s past bankruptcies and predicted that his nomination would be ruinous for Republicans. Republican voters, Mr. Castellanos wrote, must be made to “see the danger and risk of a Trump Presidency. ” “Once these doubts are raised, Trump’s business record of bankruptcies, as well as his support of   health care and other positions he shares with Hillary Clinton, can begin to pry GOP voters away,” the memo said. By nominating Mr. Trump, it continued, Republicans would be “assured that we lose the White House. ” “If Trump wins, everyone loses,” the memo said. “We not only lose the White House in 2016, but we also lose the Senate, competitive gubernatorial elections and moderate House Republicans, making Speaker Ryan’s job exponentially more difficult. ” Mr. Castellanos won no takers for his pitch, and the plans for ProtectUS were discarded. The New York Times first reported the existence of the   memo in late February. On Monday, Mr. Castellanos did not respond to an email and a phone call seeking additional comment on the evolution of his views about Mr. Trump. But the original battle plan Mr. Castellanos drew up against Mr. Trump was strongly reminiscent of some of the tactics Democrats are now using against the presumptive Republican nominee. Mrs. Clinton argued in a speech last week that Mr. Trump could not be trusted with the powers of the commander in chief. And several Democratic leaders have called for a revival of the “Daisy” ad Lyndon Johnson produced to attack Barry Goldwater in the 1964 campaign, warning that Mr. Goldwater could trigger a nuclear war.