The two murderers who escaped from the Clinton Correctional Facility last year intentionally picked a Friday night when they knew an officer named Ronald Blair was on duty. They had watched him for months, recording his movements on a calendar and knew he never made the   rounds he was supposed to. They were right: Officer Blair did not discover them missing until hours after they had made it through the tunnels under the prison and climbed out a manhole to freedom. Officer Blair’s failure was just one of scores of serious security lapses detailed in a report released on Monday by state investigators to coincide with the first anniversary of the escape at the maximum security state prison in northern New York. The breakout touched off a   manhunt that drew nationwide attention to the dense woods around Dannemora, home to the prison. The   report from the state inspector general, Catherine Leahy Scott, documented a host of “systemic deficiencies” that gave the two men, Richard W. Matt and David Sweat, time and space to plan and execute an intricate and sophisticated prison break. At the start of overnight shifts, guards would falsify records to make it appear as if they were conducting rounds when they were in fact not instead, officers acknowledged to investigators that they would read books or play crossword puzzles, the report said. “We’d get lazy,” said Officer Blair, according to the report. As a result, Mr. Sweat was able to spend 85 nights outside his cell exploring the tunnels beneath the prison in search of an escape route. That added up to about 400 compulsory bed checks, the report said, that should have been carried out by guards, who never once noticed his absence. Three months before the escape, a random search of Mr. Matt’s cell failed to detect an 18       hole in the rear wall. Tools were left unsecured in the tunnels, allowing Mr. Sweat to obtain an   sledgehammer that he pounded away with underneath the prison for over a month. “I couldn’t have asked for anything better,” Mr. Sweat later told investigators. The two murderers took six months to plan their escape, beginning in January 2015. “Just one properly performed night round during this monthslong period would have foiled the escape,” the report said. Night after night, Mr. Sweat, whom the report described as the mastermind, left a dummy in his bed and slipped out a hole cut in the back of his cell. He climbed down five stories using piping along the walls and spent hours exploring tunnels beneath the prison looking for a way out. The two inmates eventually crawled out through a steam pipe. Over 1, 000 law enforcement officials chased down leads from the Canadian to the Mexican borders. In the end, they never made it far. Mr. Matt was shot and killed about 40 miles from the prison Mr. Sweat was caught just days later after he was shot and wounded by a New York state trooper. While the broad contours of the events leading to the escape have been known for months, the report for the first time constructs a coherent narrative, in detail, from when the men hatched their plan to the moment Mr. Sweat and Mr. Matt emerged from a manhole, carrying a guitar case filled with assorted clothes, 20 packs of peanuts, 40 granola bars and a dozen sticks of pepperoni. Investigators from the inspector general’s office interviewed 170 people for the report, including corrections officers, their supervisors and inmates. They also conducted extensive interrogations of Mr. Sweat, who was put into solitary confinement at Five Points Correctional Facility after his capture. In response to the findings, the State Department of Corrections and Community Supervision said it had instituted a number of reforms at Clinton, including installing new security cameras, disciplining employees involved and appointing a new superintendent. Crucial to the escape plot was the assistance of Gene Palmer, an officer, and Joyce E. Mitchell, a civilian employee who was a supervisor at the prison tailor shop where both Mr. Sweat and Mr. Matt had worked. Ms. Mitchell, described in the report as a lonely   women with a shaky marriage, acknowledged to investigators that she allowed herself to be seduced by Mr. Sweat and her belief that “a younger guy would actually like an older woman. ” Mr. Sweat told investigators that he became aware that Ms. Mitchell harbored “some kind of star lust thing in her mind where she was like in love with me,” and sought to manipulate her. For months, Ms. Mitchell had been smuggling them food, including packages of cookies,   bags of Café Bustelo coffee and 70 containers of black and cayenne pepper that the inmates planned to use to throw off tracking dogs. In time they persuaded her to bring in tools for their escape. She bought six hacksaw blades for about $6 from Walmart and was able to smuggle them into the prisons because her bag was not searched, the report said. She gave them to Mr. Matt, “who carried them to his cell taped to his side under his shirt,” being careful to avoid metal detectors. In the weeks that followed, she hid two chisels, a steel punch, two concrete drill bits and two additional hacksaw blades in frozen ground beef that she gave to Mr. Palmer for delivery to the inmates. Both Mr. Palmer and Ms. Mitchell later pleaded guilty to aiding the inmates. Ms. Mitchell was sentenced to up to seven years in prison Mr. Palmer received six months in jail. The inspector general’s office has referred the findings of their investigation to the Clinton County district attorney’s office for potential additional criminal charges. After obtaining the tools from Mr. Palmer and Ms. Mitchell, the two inmates took about three weeks to cut holes in the rear walls of their cells, working from 6:30 to 8 p. m. while other inmates were at recreation or in the mess hall, the report said. Mr. Sweat said that the first night he climbed out of his cell he was surprised at the almost complete lack of security in the tunnels below the prison. Inspections were supposed to be done quarterly, but there had not been one since September 2014. During the months he toiled in the tunnels, Mr. Sweat lost 30 pounds. He said he loved his nights out. “You kind of felt free,” he told investigators, adding that he would leave his prison ID behind in the cell “so I didn’t feel like an inmate anymore. ” “I was having a hell of a time,” he said. He carried his escape tools in a tote bag he had sewed in the tailor shop out of the green fabric used for prison uniforms. Mr. Sweat said he had a particular dislike for Officer Blair, the regular night shift officer, and hoped that because of the escape he would face disciplinary charges. It worked: Officer Blair and a second guard on duty that night, Thomas Renadette, were among nine officers suspended after the escape. Both officers retired from the department in March, according to state comptroller records. The night before the escape, Mr. Sweat made a trial run, according to the report, finding his way through the tunnels to a manhole cover outside the prison. He lifted it up, “just enough to confirm his location on a village street,” the report said. “I actually had my head out into freedom,” he told investigators. He then “hastened back to his cell and advised Matt that the escape route was complete,” the report said. It was about 4 a. m. on June 5. To celebrate, the two men smoked a Marlboro in their cells. A little before midnight the next night, they left for good. Mr. Matt put a handwritten note on a table in his cell: “You left me no choice but to grow old and die in here. I had to do something. ” And a second note on a picture of Tony Soprano: “Time to go kid. ” It was not until 5:17 a. m. on June 6 that Officer Blair finally did a round of bed checks and noticed the killers were gone. “I grabbed the sheet and I almost threw up, then saw the dummy,” he told investigators. He set off in a “dead run” to tell his supervisor, the report said, but on the way, he was so worked up, he fell down the stairs.