On Tuesday, Hillary Clinton delivered a blistering speech in Columbus, Ohio attacking Donald Trump’s personal business record and his policies on the economy and healthcare. [Breitbart News found 13 instances in which Clinton’s speech mirrors a   page file leaked on the Internet and purported to be the Democratic National Committee   Trump playbook based on opposition research.  The files was leaked by a hacker who calls himself “Guccifer 2. 0,” a reference to the Romanian hacker who infiltrated the emails of Clinton confidante Sidney Blumenthal and several high profile U. S. officials in 2013.  According to Gawker. com, embedded metadata in the DNC file relates it was created by a Democratic strategist named Warren Flood. The following are 13 examples compiled by Breitbart News consisting of close similarities between Clinton’s speech on Tuesday and the hacked   file. 1  —   CLINTON: One of the leading firms that analyzes the top threats to the global economy, called the Economist Intelligence Unit, comes out with a new list of threats every month. It includes things like terrorism and the disintegration of Europe. And this month, number three on the list is Donald Trump becoming president of the United States. HACKED DNC OPPOSITION RESEARCH FILE: (Page 84) The Economist’s David Rennie: “If [Donald Trump] Did   Of What He’s Planning, He Would Trigger A Global Trade War, Which Would Cause A Kind Of Global Recession And Cost Lots Of Jobs. ” “The editors at The Economist looked at the overall implications of Trump’s policy ideas and were less than impressed. ‘Americans are waking up to the possibility that a man whose hobby is naming things after himself might  —   conceivably  —   be the nominee of the party of Lincoln and Reagan. It is worth spelling out why that would be a terrible thing,’ they write in the latest issue of the magazine. ‘From an economics    we think that if he did   of what he’s planning, he would trigger a global trade war, which would cause a kind of global recession and cost lots of jobs,’ [David] Rennie [Washington bureau chief for The Economist] says. ” 2  —   CLINTON: Donald Trump actually stood on a debate stage in November and said that wages are too high in this country. He should tell that to the mothers and fathers working two jobs to raise their kids. He said, and I quote, “having a low minimum wage is not a bad thing for this country. ” At a time when millions working   are still living in poverty. ‘DNC:’ (Pages  ) Donald Trump Opposed Raising The Minimum Wage, Saying American Wages Were “Too High” And That Workers, “Have To Work Really Hard. ” “ The Fox Business Republican Debate kicked off Tuesday night with a question about raising the minimum wage, as protesters across the country call for the floor to be raised to $  . Donald Trump was the first candidate to answer. ‘Taxes too high, wages too high,’ said Trump, arguing it would damage the United States’ ability to compete internationally. ‘We’re not going to be able to compete against the world,’ he said. ‘I hate to say it, but we have to leave it the way it is. People have to go out, they have to work really hard, and they have to get into that upper stratum. But we cannot do this if we are going to compete with the rest of the world, we just can’t do it. ’” [Boston Globe,   ] 3  —   CLINTON: Over the years, he has said all kinds of things about women in the workforce. He once called pregnant employees, and I quote, “an inconvenience. ” He says women will start making equal pay as soon as we do as good a job as men, as if we weren’t already. ‘DNC:’ [Breitbart Editors note, the file dedicates 3 pages ( ) to the issue, utilizing the heading:] “Trump Has Devalued And Demeaned Women Repeatedly Throughout His Career. ” 4  —   CLINTON: And he wants to end Obamacare, but has no credible plan to replace it or to help keep costs down. It really wouldn’t be good for our economy, would it, if 20 million people lost their health insurance and we were back to absolutely skyrocketing costs for everything. It would be devastating to families. It would also be bad for the economy. ‘DNC:’ (Pages  ) Repeal Without A Plan On Health Care. Like every member of the current Republican presidential field, Trump has called for the repeal of Obamacare. He called it a “total catastrophe,” despite the fact that it has provided more than 17 million Americans with quality, affordable health care. When asked what he would do in the ACA’s place, Trump said he would replace it with “something terrific. ” 5  —   CLINTON: So what would Trump do? He said he wants to wipe out the tough rules we put on big banks. He said they created, quote, “a very bad situation. ” Well, he’s got it backwards. The very bad situation was millions of families seeing their homes and savings disappear. ‘DNC:’ (Breitbart editor’s note: Clinton seems to have taken this one wholly out of context). (Page 99): Trump Opposed Wall Street Reform And Claimed The Reforms Created “A Very Bad Situation. ” TRUMP: “Well, I have to speak two ways. Selfishly, as a developer, I love cheap money, and I have always loved cheap money, and who wouldn’t. Now, I’m not speaking as somebody that is a great citizen of this country  —   and I hope I am and I love this country very dearly  —   but as a developer, I love cheap money. They’re giving me cheap money. They  —   I will say this, that the only people that get money are people like me that don’t need it. If I don’t  —   if I want to make a deal on buying something, I get very, very inexpensive money. If somebody wants to put together a deal that does  —   that is very qualified, and very good, but doesn’t have a lot of money, it’s impossible for that person to borrow, even at higher rates, because the regulators  —   you mentioned   just a minute ago. The regulators under   have made it virtually impossible for the banks to lend money to those people, which is a very bad situation to be in. ” [Your World with Neil Cavuto, Fox News,   ] 6  —   CLINTON: And now before releasing his plan, Trump said,   guys are getting away with murder. And he added, they’ll pay more. Then his plan came out. And it actually makes the current loophole even worse. It gives   managers a special tax rate that’s lower than what many middle class families pay. And I did have to look twice because I didn’t believe it. ‘DNC:’ (Page 171)  TRUMP PROPOSED HIGHER TAX RATES ON HEDGE FUND PROFITS. DONALD TRUMP SUPPORTED ELIMINATING THE CARRIED INTEREST LOOPHOLE ON PROFITS BY HEDGE FUND MANAGERS, 7  —   CLINTON: Under Donald Trump’s plan, these Wall Street millionaires will pay a lower tax rate than many working people. And of course, Donald himself would get a huge tax cut from his own plan. But we don’t know exactly how much because he won’t release his tax returns, ‘DNC:’ (Page 164) Headline: “Trump’s Tax Plan Could Cost $12 Trillion, And Save Him Millions In Taxes Each Year. ” [Time,   ] 8  —   CLINTON: Now, fourth, Donald Trump’s ideas about the economy and the world will cause millions of Americans to lose their jobs. The Republican primary featured the Trump immigration plan. Round up and deport more than 11 million people. Almost all of whom are employed or are children going to school. Then build a wall across our border and force Mexico to pay for it. Now, this policy is not only wrong headed and unachievable, it is really bad economics. Picking out 11 million immigrants would cost hundreds of billions of dollars. And it would shrink our economy significantly. Some economists actually argue that just this policy alone would send us into a Trump recession. So instead of causing large scale misery and shrinking our economy, we should pass sensible immigration reform with a path to citizenship because the youth and diversity of our workforce is one of our greatest assets. Most of the rest of the world that we compete with is aging. ‘DNC:’ (Page 134) Trump’s Immigration Plan Is Estimated To Cost $166 Billion Including $141 Billion For The Mass Deportation The Plan Called For But Not The Massive Economic Hit His Plan Would Cause. “Donald Trump’s immigration plan is huge in every aspect  —   including its price tag. Think $166 billion. And that’s on the low end  …    . In January 2011, Kumar Kibble  —   then the deputy director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement  —   told lawmakers that it costs about $12, 500 to deport one immigrant from the United States. Multiply that by 11. 3 million  —   the size of the undocumented population in 2014, according to the Pew Research Center  —   and you get $141. 3 billion  …    . The $166 billion price tag from POLITICO’s analysis tallied up the actual price tag for Trump’s plan. But those costs don’t even begin to calculate the hit to the economy Trump’s proposal would cause,   experts say. ” [Politico,    9  —   CLINTON: Back in 2006, before the financial crash, Trump said, and again I quote, “I sort of hope that the housing market crashes” because he’d make money off of all the foreclosures. ‘DNC:’ (Pages  )    : Donald Trump Said The 2007 Real Estate Collapse Would Be “Very Minor” And That He Was Poised To Take Advantage Of Falling Real Estate Values, “Donald Trump almost lost his shirt 15 years ago when the North American real estate bubble burst. The 2007 version of that disaster will be much more benign, the real estate magnate predicts, although there is softness in some urban markets, such as Toronto and San Francisco. ‘We’re talking very minor [problems] compared with the depression of the early 1990s,’ Mr. Trump said yesterday in a phone interview from Los Angeles. Mr. Trump said he is poised to invest in depressed property as the downturn moves through individual cities. ‘People have been talking about the end of the cycle for 12 years, and I’m excited if it is,’ he said. ‘I’ve always made more money in bad markets than in good markets. ’” [Globe and Mail,   ] Trump On Housing Market Collapse: “It’s An Amazing Situation. ” KING: “Real estate market, what’s going on?” TRUMP: “It’s an amazing situation. There are tremendous opportunities. You know what’s interesting, I was begging people not to buy real estate two years ago. And everybody was interested in buying. And now they are less interested, and this is the time they should be going out  —   not buying, negotiating to buy. This is the time. ” [Larry King Live, CNN,   ] 10  —   CLINTON: The last time we opted for   isolationism, it made the great depression longer and more painful. And interestingly, Trump’s own products are made in a lot of countries that aren’t named America. Trump ties are made in china. Trump suits in Mexico. Trump furniture in Turkey. Trump picture frames in Indian. Trump bar ware in Slovenia. And I could go on and on, but you get the idea. ‘DNC:’ (Pages   background narrative) Trump Is Loyal Only To Himself. And despite his rants against outsourcing, China, and free trade deals, Trump has eagerly invested abroad and showed little loyalty to America in allowing his clothing line to import clothes from China. He’s laid off American workers and even complained that American wages are “too high. ”    CLINTON: He just says that climate change is a hoax invented by the Chinese. Well, give him this. It is a lot easier to say a problem doesn’t exist than it is to actually try to solve it. ‘DNC:’ (Page 115) In 2015, Trump Called Climate Change A “Hoax. ” “Mr. Trump’s policy views can be just as provocative as his demeanor. In the past, he has called climate change ‘a hoax’ and said he has a ‘foolproof’ plan to defeat the Islamic State, which he will not reveal so as not to tip off the group. On Tuesday, he vowed to build a ‘great wall’ on the Mexican border to keep out rapists and other criminals, who he said were sneaking into the United States in droves. ” [New York Times,   ] 12  —   CLINTON: Go figure. And over the years, he intentionally ran up huge amounts of debt on his companies and then he defaulted. He bankrupted his companies not once, not twice, but four times. ‘DNC:’ (Page 8) And Trump’s record of irresponsible and reckless borrowing to build his empire  —   behavior that sent his companies into bankruptcy four times  —   is just one indication of how    he is with the way regular Americans behave and make a living, and it casts doubt on whether he has the right mindset to tackle the country’s budget problems. 13  —   CLINTON: Americans and small businesses that did work for Trump and never got paid. Painters, waiters, plumbers, people who needed the money and didn’t get it. Not because he couldn’t pay them, but because he could stiff them. Sometimes, he offered them 30 cents on the dollar for projects they had already completed. Hundreds of liens have been filed against by contractors going back decades and they all tell a similar story. I worked for him. I did my job. He wouldn’t pay me what he owed me. ‘DNC:’ According to testimony in a protracted civil suit in federal court, the laborers were paid $5 an hour or less when they were paid at all. Some went unpaid after the contractor had financial troubles. A few never received even the paltry sum that was owed them for their dirty and hazardous efforts preceding the construction of Trump’s monument to his own wealth. With additional research by Joshua Klein. Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio. ” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.