It’s quickly becoming the booty shot seen ’round the world. [Actress Blake Lively’s decision to quote rapper Sir   ’s lyrics in a recent Instagram post has resulted in charges of racism.  Lively posted a picture Tuesday posing with her back to the camera during a recent red carpet event at the Cannes Film Festival. The    actress captioned the shot: “L. A. face with an Oakland booty,” lyrics from Sir   ’s rap song “Baby Got Back. ” The post has gone viral on Instagram, with more than half a million shares. And condemnation of the Gossip Girl star’s choice of words came quickly from social media users.  L. A. face with an Oakland booty, A photo posted by Blake Lively (@blakelively) on May 17, 2016 at 5:04pm PDT,  Another day, another rich white woman using WOC’s bodies as a punchline and commodity. As if Blake Lively wasn’t the worst already.  —   Kat Bee (@katbeee) May 18, 2016,  This is a reminder that Blake Lively and Ryan Reynolds got married on a plantation where slave cabins still stand. pic. twitter.   —   Melissa Radzimski (@melissaradz) May 18, 2016,  Wow I’m so disappointed in myself for liking Blake Lively. You can never trust the whites.  —   Confused Ting (@AVISKINSWEAT) May 18, 2016,  But there were also some social media users who called accusing Lively of racism was an example of fake outrage. I refuse to worry about Blake Lively posting a sir mix a lot lyric with a picture of her backside. The revolution does not start here.  —   roxane gay (@rgay) May 18, 2016,  Anyone who thinks Blake Lively is racist or misappropriating culture to some other ludicrous crap needs to STFU. The FAUXRAGE is absurd.  —   Heather (@hboulware) May 18, 2016,  People really need to get over  #BlakeLively quoting song lyrics. Why are people so dumb? She is fierce, the end. @blakelively,  —   Jordan Pruitt (@JordansBlog) May 18, 2016,  So Blake Lively is being abused for quoting a     lyric on her Instagram? I think people are taking this ’racism’ thing too far  …      —   Paul Haydon (@PaulHaydon) May 18, 2016,  If you think Blake Lively saying ”LA face with an Oakland booty” is racist, my guess is you’ve never actually experienced racism.  —   bryan (@BlueBryan24) May 18, 2016,  Lively has been here before. In November 2014, fledgling news website Gawker accused the actress of racism when she launched her new clothing line, “Allure of Antebellum. ” “You’d think that after 12 Years a Slave won all those Oscars, slaves are over,” wrote Gawker‘s Allie Jones of Lively’s   War   clothing line. “According to a   fashion spread on her lifestyle website Preserve, the hottest lifestyle for fall is the lifestyle of owning human beings without government interference. ”   feminist website Jezebel called Lively’s post “problematic,” adding that “in the end, it touts a diametrical opposition: that Los Angeles can be equated to elegance   beauty (read: whiteness) and that Oakland is its foil (read: blackness). ” At the time of this post, Lively hasn’t taken down the picture. The actress has also not  —   as most celebrities tend to do  —   apologized for the apparently controversial photo. Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson