Tuesday on Fox News Channel’s “The Kelly File,” former House Speaker Newt Gingrich took on host Megyn Kelly for what Gingrich described to be a fascination with sex and that she didn’t care about policy.  Exchange as follows: NEWT GINGRICH: Let me point out something to you: The three major networks spent 23 minutes attacking Donald Trump that night, and 57 seconds on Hillary Clinton’s secret speeches. You don’t think that is a scale of bias worthy of Pravda? (CROSSTALK) MEGYN KELLY: If Trump is a sexual predator, that is —   GINGRICH: He’s not a sexual predator. You can’t say that. You could not defend that statement. KELLY: I have not taken a position on it. GINGRICH: I’m sick and tired of people like you using inflammatory language that is not true. KELLY: Excuse me, Mr. Speaker, you have no idea whether it is true or not. What we know —   GINGRICH: Neither do you. KELLY: I’m not taking a position on it. GINGRICH: Yes you are. When you used the words, you took a position. It is very unfair of you to do that, Megyn. KELLY: Incorrect. GINGRICH: That is exactly the bias people are upset by. KELLY: I think that your defensiveness on this speaks volumes, sir. GINGRICH: Let me suggest to you  —   KELLY: No let me make my point. What I said if if Trump is a sexual predator, than it is a big story. And what we saw on that tape was Trump himself saying he liked to grab women by the genitals, and kiss them against their will. Then we saw 10 women come forward after he denied it at a debate   …     He denies it all, which is his right. We don’t know what the truth is. My point to you is, as a media story, we don’t get to say the 10 women are liars. We have to cover that story. GINGRICH: Sure, so it took 23 minutes for the networks to cover that story. And Hillary Clinton had a secret speech in Brazil to a bank that pays her $225, 000 saying that her dream is an open border where 600 million people could come to America, that is not worth covering? Do you want me to go back to the tapes of your show recently? You are fascinated with sex and you don’t care about public policy. KELLY: Me, really? GINGRICH: That’s what I get out of watching you tonight. KELLY: You know what, Mr. Speaker? I’m not fascinated by sex, but I am fascinated by the protection of women and understanding what we’re getting in the Oval Office.   …     GINGRICH: And therefore, we’re going to send Bill Clinton back to the East Wing, because you are worried about a sexual predator. Do you want to comment on whether the Clinton ticket has a relationship to a sexual predator? KELLY: We on ‘The Kelly File’ have covered that story as well, sir. GINGRICH: I want to hear you say the word. Say “Bill Clinton is a sexual predator. ” I dare you. Say “Bill Clinton, sexual predator. ” (CROSSTALK) KELLY: Mr. Speaker, we have covered that. We on “The Kelly File” have covered the Bill Clinton story as well. We’ve hosted Kathleen Willey. But he is not on the ticket. Kelly ended the segment by telling Gingrich he needed to take his “anger issues” and “spend some time working on them. ” Follow Jeff Poor on Twitter @jeff_poor