On the anniversary of the thwarted jihadi attack on her “Mohammed Art Exhibit and Contest” in Garland, Texas, Pamela Geller was a guest of Breitbart News Daily with SiriusXM host Stephen K. Bannon. [Bannon asked for Geller’s take on CIA Director John Brennan dismissing the classified “28 pages” from the Senate Intelligence Committee’s   report as “uncorroborated and unvetted” information, which should not be released to the public.  She said Brennan’s characterization of the classified file was incorrect, “according to the scores of congresspeople who have already read it. ” “Look, I’m wary of John Brennan,” said Geller. “He’s a man who said jihad is a legitimate tenet of Islam. ” She noted that he was the CIA station chief in Saudi Arabia for many years, and that “one FBI agent had said that he had converted to Islam at that time. ” She noted a “chorus of voices” has called for releasing the   documents, and asked, “Why not release it, and let’s vet it?” Geller said the portrayal of the   documents as raw, unverified data, unfit for public consumption, was “a completely new excuse” for keeping them hidden. “When the President of the United States says that he hasn’t read it, or his press spokesperson has said that he hasn’t read the 28 pages everyone is talking about  —   all roads lead to the Saudi government, the Saudi consulate in L. A. and the embassy in D. C.,” Geller said.   “And we know about that family, that Saudi family in Florida who was tied to the   Muslim terrorists, who just, in a couple of days left everything, left the car running in the driveway,” she continued, referring to the   family of Sarasota, which had numerous ties to the hijackers, and vanished abruptly a week before the   attacks.   Geller credited the “tenacious” BrowardBulldog journalism group with uncovering the story using the Freedom of Information Act, overcoming a degree of government resistance she compared to “pulling teeth. ” “There’s a story there. What is the government hiding?” she asked. “This is part of the reason why people don’t trust the government. This is an attack on American soil. Who are you protecting? Your first and foremost priority is protecting the American people, not the perps. ” Turning to the Garland attack, Geller said “we’ve learned a lot” during the year since jihadis Elton Simpson and Nadir Soofi were shot dead by security, on their way into the Curtis Culwell center to carry out a mass slaughter. “I think Garland is an extraordinary city,” she said. “We hear about ‘Boston strong.’ I don’t know what’s strong about Boston. I don’t think selling teddy bears and bracelets in the wake of a jihadi attack on the Boston Marathon is necessarily ‘strong.’ I think the response to what happened in Garland  —   taking the jihadis out, getting the best of all possible outcomes  —   Garland deserves ‘Garland strong. ’” “We know now, because of the mastermind, the Garland mastermind who is on trial, we know now that the jihadis were instructed by a senior ISIS operative,” Geller continued. “We also know that one of the ISIS operatives here in America was also in touch with the San Bernardino jihadis. ”   “I think that speaks volumes about the   program  —   how it’s being scrubbed, at Obama’s instruction, of Islam,” she charged.   There should never have been anyone, any devout Muslim who was involved in or orchestrated the Garland attack, should have immediately been arrested.  But free to operate, and have a hand in San Bernardino  —   which was the worst of all possible outcomes? We know that they were practicing, and target practicing, and planning for a year before we had announced our contest and art exhibit.  So they were gonna hit something. And it would have been another San Bernardino, and it would have been another Chattanooga.  But we were prepared. Instead of praise for their preparedness, and their courage for standing up to credible threats of violence in the name of free expression, Geller said the participants in her art contest,”were hit with all these accusations by the media, and by the elites, that we shouldn’t exhibit or show Mohammed. ” “I’m not a Muslim, and I don’t adhere to Islamic law,” Geller declared. “What these people do not understand is that it doesn’t end with not criticizing, or mocking, or drawing Mohammed. It begins there. ” “The same people  —   the Martha McCallums, and the Chris Cuomos, and everyone else who said that we shouldn’t have held the contest  —   should we also kill homosexuals?  Should we not serve pork in school cafeterias?” she asked. “Because that’s what they’re adhering to. ” Geller was not surprised that the mainstream media displayed very little interest in a story about jihadi assassins attempting to suppress free speech with bullets on American soil, compared to the firestorm that would have erupted if extremist Christians had done something similar. “I’ve been doing this work,    every day,    to report the news in this war that the media won’t cover,” she said. “They may not be conscious of it, but they’re   this sharia. They will not criticize Islam. They will not insult Islam. Some people call it PC correctness. No, the fact of the matter is, Islamic supremacists in this country mean to impose Islamic law. And one of its tenets of Islamic law is, you cannot criticize Islam. ” “Look how they’re slaughtering free thinkers, and poets, and secularists in Bangladesh,” she urged. Referring to the “Je Suis Charlie” show of support for the murdered cartoonists of Charlie Hebdo magazine in Paris, she asked, “Where are the ‘Je Suis’ movements for the poets, and the artists, and those that dare to stand up? You don’t hear anything about it. This should be a movement by the press, and what we’re seeing is, they’re colluding. They are colluding to impose Islamic law. ” Geller thought she and her contributors made their point with the Mohammed Art Exhibit in Garland, by emphasizing the absolute importance of free speech. “Without freedom of speech, you cannot have a free society,” she said. “You are controlled by the group that you cannot criticize  —   which we see increasingly here in this country. ” “People need to get involved.  There are no casual observers in this war. Everyone is a target,” she said, pointing to a recent ISIS target list that named some 3, 600 New Yorkers.   “What did they do?” she asked of the people on that kill list. “Everyone is a target. If you’re not fighting for the Islamic State, if you’re not fighting to spread Islamic imperialism, then you’re a target. And this is, of course, what’s being kept from the American public. ”  Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00AM to 9:00AM EST. LISTEN: 