Comedian Sarah Silverman struck a defensive tone this week when asked about Hillary Clinton’s health, attacking those who have raised concerns over the issue as “f*cking a**holes. ”[“What do you think about Hillary Clinton’s health? Do you think she’s healthy?” a TMZ cameraman asked Silverman in a video posted by the celebrity gossip website.  “Yeah, I think she’s healthy. I think anyone bringing up her health is a f*cking a**hole,” an apparently annoyed Silverman responded. “She f*cking  …     she’s as healthy as  …     Believe me, she’s fine. ” When the cameraman pressed further, Silverman conceded she had “no idea” whether Clinton is healthy or not.  Concerns surrounding Clinton’s health intensified last week after the release of FBI documents related to the investigation of the Democratic presidential candidate’s private email server earlier this summer. In one document, Clinton apparently told investigators she could not recall every briefing she received on handling sensitive material due to a concussion she sustained in 2012. “In December of 2012, Clinton suffered a concussion and then around the New Year had a blood clot,” the FBI report stated. “Based on her doctor’s advice, she could only work at State for a few hours a day and could not recall every briefing she received. ” Silverman  —   one of the earliest and most vocal celebrity endorsers of Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders during the Democratic primary  —   called on Democrats to unite behind Clinton while speaking at the party’s National Convention in Philadelphia in July. “I am proud to be a part of Bernie’s movement, and a vital part of that movement is making absolutely sure that Hillary Clinton is our next President of the United States,” Silverman said at the convention. When staunch Sanders supporters at the convention booed and jeered the comment, Silverman countered: “Can I just say, to the Bernie or bust people, you’re being ridiculous. ” As Breitbart News reported in August, some Sanders fans still haven’t forgiven the comedian for the comment.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum