An economics professor at Yale University has reportedly made an upcoming midterm optional for students distraught over Donald Trump’s victory in Tuesday’s presidential election. [The message, which was sent to students before the election was called, was sent in response to outcries from students who claimed that they “feared for their families” as a result of Donald Trump’s victory in Tuesday’s presidential election.  Although it’s unclear which Yale professor is responsible for the email, it was published online by a staff member of The Yale Daily News, and circulated around the internet. BREAKING: Yale Econ 115 professor makes midterm exam optional after students write in expressing shock about presidential election: pic. twitter.   —   Jon Victor (@jon_victor_) November 9, 2016,  You can read the entirety of the email below: Dear Econ 115 Students, I am getting many heartfelt notes from students who are in shock over the election returns. (Although as I write this the election has not been called.) The ones I find most upsetting are those who fear, rightly or wrongly, for their own families. These students are requesting that the exam be postponed. On the other hand, I am sure that many students have sacrificed to prepare for the test. Further, it is not easy to reschedule exam rooms at this late date. Finally, postponing the exam would throw off the rest of the schedule as well. Therefore, I am making the exam optional. I will calculate each student’s grade both with and without exam 2, placing all of exam 2’s weight on the final exam when exam 2 is omitted. I will then take, for each student, the maximum of the two final grades (with and without the exam). Those maximum scores will then be used for the final curve. So, feel free to make either decision tomorrow (or today, if you are reading this in the AM). Tom Ciccotta is a libertarian who writes about Free Speech and Intellectual Diversity for Breitbart. You can follow him on Twitter @tciccotta or email him at tciccotta@breitbart. com