A hacked   Democrat National Committee memo released on Monday reveals the dizzying array of Clinton Foundation scandal facts the DNC considers “vulnerabilities” for presumptive Democratic Party presidential nominee Hillary Clinton. [The secret document, titled “Clinton Foundation Vulnerabilities Master Doc FINAL,” is one of several newly released internal memos obtained by the hacker known as “Guccifer 2. 0. ” Totaling over 22, 000 words in length, the DNC vulnerabilities dossier paints a portrait of a political party besieged by media coverage of foreign Clinton  Foundation donations spawned by the investigative New York Times bestselling book, Clinton Cash.  The document chronicles hundreds of news reports of Clinton Foundation malfeasance featured under devastating headings created by DNC staffers themselves.   comments featured inside the document contain the names “Lauren Smith” and “Jeremy Brinster,” both of whom are listed as former or current DNC research staffers. The DNC’s own descriptive headings, which are backed up by mainstream media reports, demonstrate how politically toxic the DNC considers the Clinton Foundation’s acceptance of foreign donations during Hillary Clinton’s tenure as Sec. of State. In the section titled, “CLINTON FOUNDATION INDIVIDUAL FOREIGN DONORS,” the DNC vulnerabilities memo reports the following: The Clintons’ role in dispersing billions of U. S. taxpayer dollars in the Haitian disaster relief debacle is also noted as a core vulnerability: Other hacked documents released on Monday included internal memos from embattled Clinton campaign spokesman Brian Fallon seeking to calm Democrats’ fears over the book Clinton Cash. In an April 23, 2015 memo from Fallon to “Friends and Allies,” Hillary’s spokesman promises Clinton supporters that “bit by bit, the truth will come to light. ” Unfortunately for the Clinton campaign, myriad mainstream and liberal news outlets confirmed and corroborated the book’s myriad investigative revelations. A highly anticipated and critically acclaimed documentary film based on Clinton Cash is slated for global release the week of the Democratic National Convention.