Friday at the Values Voter Summit in Washington DC, Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump said if his opponent, Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton, wins she will nominate liberal Supreme Court justices, meaning you can “kiss the Second Amendment goodbye. ”  Trump said, “We’re going to protect your Second Amendment, so many things, but one of the most important, some people actually think it’s the most important, is the filling of the seats of the United States Supreme Court. You see what’s happening right now, essentially it’s four and four and you see how bad it is. We’re going to pick great judges. I’ve already put a list of 11, the Federalist Society highly recommended, got uniform great reviews on these 11 people and we are going to put truly great people. Maybe we use Judge Scalia as the ultimate example of what we are looking for, okay. This will determine whether or not we remain a constitutional republic, frankly. That’s what’s going to happen. I have pledged to appoint judges who are upholding the Constitution, to protect your religious liberty and apply the law as written. We reject judges that rewrite the Constitution to impose their own personal views on 300 million plus Americans. ”  “Not going to have that,” he continued. “I made public a list of judges, as I said, that will guide my selection process. Hillary Clinton has refused to provide such a list. We brought it up. Let’s see your list. If you ever saw the list, you would walk out of here not feeling very well. Because she knows the extremist judges she would pick would be rejected by the overwhelming majority of the American public. They would be rejected. Clinton’s judicial picks would allow her to completely take over American health care, the American economy, and Americans religious liberties. Not to mention your Second Amendment which is on very thin ice right now as you know. Because of the fact that we’re at  . If they even pick one judge who is wrong, you can probably, as you know it, kiss the Second Amendment goodbye, and we don’t want to see that. ” Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNEN