The Minnesota state director for Donald Trump’s presidential campaign tells Breitbart News the latest   poll showing Trump and Hillary Clinton tied at 43 percent reflects what he sees on the ground and the Democrats know it, too. [“They don’t smell a defeat coming yet, but they have definitely shifted from     mode to       mode,” said Andy Post, the Minnesota state director for the Trump campaign.  In the poll, 49 percent of Minnesotans said the country was going in the wrong direction, compared with 32 percent saying it was going in the right direction with 15 percent saying it was neither. The poll of 906 likely voters has a margin of error of 3. 3 percent. The Trump campaign in Minnesota is completely different Mitt Romney’s 2012 effort, said the native of Minnesota, who joined the campaign and returned to the land of 10, 000 lakes a little over a month ago after working in Washington for two years. “There are more grassroots, more volunteers, more Independents and more excitement this year,” he said. In the 2012 election, President Barack Obama beat his GOP rival Romney with 52 percent of the vote to 43 percent for the former Massachusetts governor. Post said the Trump campaign has been outspent so far by a rate of at least    so the fact that the Trump campaign is having success closing the gap with the Clinton campaign is because his message is resonating and hers is not. “One thing that is really coming up is that the people of Minnesota have a real dislike of Hillary Clinton,” he said. Outside the cities, the state’s politics are still dominated by the legacy the Democratic Farm and Labor Party, Post said. The DFL is the merger between the   Farmer and Labor Party and the state’s Democratic Party, the unified organization functions as the state’s Democratic Party and it is most closely associated with man, who effected the merger, Hubert H. Humphrey. Post said for DFL people what really matters is corruption and the idea of somebody going to Washington and becoming more of a   politician rather than remembering where they came from. “What we are seeing is the Farmers and the Laborers going for Trump,  he said. “If Trump wins Minnesota, it will be because he is the ” he said.