Presumptive Republican nominee Donald Trump turned his criticism on Hillary Clinton on Friday night by bringing up her treatment of women during Bill Clinton’s sexual affairs. [“So, I just learned they have a $90 million fund where they’re going to do negative ads,” about Trump and the comments he’s made about women, Trump said at his campaign rally in Eugene, Oregon, on Friday night. “I’m saying to myself, but nobody in this country and maybe in the history of the country politically, was worse than Bill Clinton with women. He was a disaster. ”  “I mean there’s never been anybody like this and she was a total enabler. She would go after these woman and destroy their lives,” Trump said of Hillary. “I mean, have you ever read what Hillary Clinton did to the women that Bill Clinton had affairs with? And they’re going after me with women, give me a break folks!” The crowd cheered in response. “Just remember this, she was an unbelievably, nasty, mean enabler and what she did to a lot of those women was disgraceful, so put that in her bonnet and lets see what happens,” he declared. “Women want strength. They want border security. They want a strong military. They don’t want a woman that sits at home at three o’clock in the morning and she’s sleeping and she didn’t answer the telephone   …     she was sleeping,” Trump said, referencing Benghazi. “The last thing you need is another Clinton. ” Trump slammed Clinton’s time as Secretary of State. He said the United State’s trade deficit with China increased nearly 40 percent during the Clinton tenure. “She plays her woman’s card. It’s the only card she has,” Trump said. “She’s got all of her friends from Wall Street,” he said. “The trip in [was] so beautiful  …    and look at all these strong people out here in the audience,” Trump said of Oregon. Years ago, I would have said, ‘Look at all these strong men,’ but today if you say that they say you’re sexist. That’s horrible. Hillary Clinton would say that was a horrible statement   …     he should say look at the strong people. Trump said the political correctness “ is so out of control. ” Trump then turned his attention to Elizabeth Warren, who he tweeted about throughout the day on Friday, and coined the nickname “Goofy Elizabeth Warren. ” I hope corrupt Hillary Clinton chooses goofy Elizabeth Warren as her running mate. I will defeat them both.  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 6, 2016,  Let’s properly check goofy Elizabeth Warren’s records to see if she is Native American. I say she’s a fraud!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 6, 2016,  Goofy Elizabeth Warren, Hillary Clinton’s flunky, has a career that is totally based on a lie. She is not Native American.  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 6, 2016,  Goofy Elizabeth Warren and her phony Native American heritage are on a Twitter rant. She is too easy! I’m driving her nuts.  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 7, 2016,  Goofy Elizabeth Warren is weak and ineffective. Does nothing. All talk, no action  —   maybe her Native American name?  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 7, 2016,  “I just learned that crooked Hillary along with her friend, you know she’s got this goofy friend Elizabeth Warren. She’s on this Twitter rant. She’s a goofus,” Trump said. “This woman, she’s a basket case. ” “She’s done nothing in the United States Senate. I’d love to run against her if I came from Massachusetts,” he added. “So I hear that goofy Elizabeth Warren  …    they say, ‘Oh, she’s a super liberal. ’” “Her whole career is a fraud because she goes out and says she’s a Native American. I won’t use the word Indian because they say it’s not a nice word to use. She is a Native American  —   five percent. ” “I think that Hillary should run with Goofy Elizabeth Warren. I would love to beat them,” the billionaire challenged. Trump also took time to go after former 2016 presidential candidate Lindsey Graham, who said on Friday he won’t support Trump. “He went home and he started to cry,” Trump said about when he pushed Graham out of the race. “Now, he says I won’t vote for Donald Trump. ” “They signed a pledge remember? Everybody wanted me to sign a pledge because they didn’t care about everybody else because who the hell cared about everybody else,” Trump said. “I’m the one thats honoring the pledge. ” Trump also jabbed Jeb Bush for doing the same thing as Graham, vowing not to support Trump. Trump also briefly mentioned Fox News host Megyn Kelly, who he sparred with earlier in the year over a question he thought was unfair during the first GOP primary debate last August. “She called me and she said I’d like to see you. Now, if I was wrong she wouldn’t have done that and I respect her for doing that,” Trump said of Kelly. “She came to Trump Tower. I didn’t go to Fox. ” “I have a lot of respect for this,” Trump said of Kelly, adding “Everything’s fine. ” Trump spoke to a crowd of more than three thousand. We’re in Eugene, OR for Trump rally. This is line 4   hours before rally. Festive mood. Portland riot police here. pic. twitter.   —   LizForTrump (@WillametteM) May 6, 2016,  Line at the door in #Eugene is still long. Crowd of ~3, 200 inside yelling ”Donald.” No sign of Trump yet. pic. twitter.   —   Taylor W Anderson (@TaylorWAnderson) May 7, 2016,    protesters were out hours before the rally. Getting into Eugene for #Trump Rally. Protesters blocking   @fox12oregon pic. twitter.   —   MegaSugianto (@MegaSugianto) May 6, 2016,  https:  . twitter.    #Trump protesters making their mark outside the #Eugene venue where he’s speaking tonight. @fox12oregon pic. twitter.   —   Kelsey Watts (@KelseyWattsKPTV) May 6, 2016,   