Border Patrol agents captured a previously deported illegal alien sex offender minutes after the Mexican national   the United States in Southern California. [Agents observed the man walking from the direction of the international fence 11 miles west of the Calexico Port of Entry on Tuesday. The agents then made contact with the man and arrested him after determining he had illegally crossed the border, according to a Customs and Border Protection statement obtained by Breitbart Texas.  The    unnamed Mexican national was processed at the Border Patrol station. A records check revealed the man had previously been convicted of lewd acts with a child under the age of 14. The man was deported from the U. S. in 2009 after serving a   sentence. “I am proud of the great work Border Patrol agents demonstrated in stopping this previously deported convicted sex offender from further entry into the United States,” said Chief Patrol Agent Rodney S. Scott.  “Their actions have kept our communities safe. ” The man, whose name CBP officials will not disclose, will be prosecuted for   After Removal as a convicted sex offender. He is currently being detained at the Imperial County Jail in California. Once again, our nation’s unsecured borders have allowed a previously convicted and deported illegal alien sex offender to   this country. Just last week, Breitbart Texas’ Lana Shadwick reported on the homicide of a Texas fire captain who was allegedly killed by another previously deported illegal alien. Fire Captain Peter Hacking and two of his seven children were killed when a vehicle allegedly driven by Margarito Quintero swerved into his lane and struck Hacking’s vehicle. Quintero had been deported in 2008. In March, Breitbart’s Katie McHugh reported on the murders of five Missourians who were allegedly killed by Pablo Antonio   a Mexican national who had previously been deported in 2004. Following the murders, schools in the area were put on lockdown “thanks to one murderous illegal alien who  —   allegedly  —   didn’t let deportation deter him from committing more crimes in America,” McHugh wrote. In January, Breitbart Texas reported on the arrest of an illegal alien who had previously been convicted of murder and subsequently deported. Efrain   45, was convicted in 1995 in Dallas, Texas on a murder charge. He was sentenced to 20 years in prison and was deported in 2012. Also in January, a rapist who had previously been deported was arrested after   the U. S. in the same region as this week’s arrest reported above. Octavio Mendoza, 42, was deported in 2005 after serving six years on a forcible rape conviction. Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas and is a member of the original Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX.