House conservatives are preparing a list of 200 federal regulations that   Donald Trump can delete with the stroke of a pen upon entering the White House Jan. 20, a leading member of the House Freedom Caucus tells Breitbart News. [“Recognizing the role of Congress and the executive branch being two separate powers and also recognizing that with a new administration, we want to make it easier for them, so they don’t have to look under every rock and every crook and cranny to find potential overreaches by the executive branch,” says Rep. Mark Meadows (R. . C.). He’s launched a bid to become chairman of the Freedom Caucus as Rep. Jim Jordan is stepping aside.  “We started out with a hundred rules and regulations that we wanted to offer the new administration to be able to address on Day One —  certainly within the first 100 days,” said the congressman, a member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee. “That list has now grown to 188,” he said. With the list already at 188 economically damaging rules and regulations that could be overturned without legislation, the congressman said his colleagues at the  House Freedom Caucus are confident they can reach 200 by the time Trump becomes the chief executive. There is no question that regulations on the books are holding back America’s job growth and the economy, he said. Meadows said House conservatives seek to give the incoming administration a wide berth as they settle in their offices and in their focus. “We see our role as being ready and prepped for them. ” “As a guy, who never had the federal government help me make payroll —  what I have found in the most useful way conservatives can be helpful is not to demand a certain action, but to highlight the action that is impeding jobs across the country from New York to California and in between —  now that we have a ‘jobs president’ in the White House we don’t have to educate him about the stumbling blocks to job growth,” he said. “We just have to identify where it is in this massive bureaucracy,” the former businessman said. “The 200 regulations, I think will speak for themselves as to how they will spur job growth,” he said. Meadows said the in addition to the work by the House Freedom Caucus, the members and staff of his House Oversight Committee are producing a “Landing Book” for the Trump appointees. The books, specific to each department and agency, are part map, part instruction guide and part cultural awareness resource for those about to lead and engage with the federal bureaucracy, he said. The books are a culmination of eight years of dealing with the administration of President Barack Obama and his administration —  and will be a counterpoint to the packets presented to the new officials by the civil servants. “We’re actually putting together binders,” the congressman said. The books will also have specific information from the House committee with jurisdiction over an office and its mission. “We are trying not to get in and encroach their area of jurisdiction and to be a partner, where it is a    kind of transfer —  I am hopeful we’ll see some real fruits to that coming out. ”