As the presidential race shifts into high gear, college students and recent graduates are still being largely ignored, except by one candidate whose promises of rainbows and unicorns are dreams  —   not reality. [As the smartest and, possibly, poorest generation in our nation’s history, Millennials will soon have their day of reckoning. Here are the key issues threatening our generation, that we hope the next administration will tackle, so that we, too, can live the American Dream.  College tuition costs have skyrocketed by over 500 percent since 1985. As long as schools continue to tell young people that a degree will guarantee them a better future, they’ll keep footing the bill. The government helps them load up on debt  —   and leaves them with little to no help after the fact.  One of the most indebted generations in American history is also the least equipped to manage its debt. Only 24 percent of Millenials qualify as financially literate, according to PWC and half expect that they wouldn’t be able to handle an emergency bill of $2, 000. Few colleges and fewer high schools teach pocketbook economics. No wonder we’re slaves to the system. Without modernizing government regulations to encourage new startups, we’re likely to see entrepreneurship continue to decline. We’ll also have less chances of making money driving an Uber or renting out a room on Airbnb, as the taxi and hotel industries and regulators crack down on innovation.  Politicians use Millennials to pay for programs such as Social Security and Medicare that would otherwise be insolvent. The amount of debt held by the public will be more that 79 percent of GDP by 2024, when Millennials will make up most of the labor force. To pay for that debt, taxes will have to rise.  The think tank Demos calls this “generational theft. ”  Lay out realistic and viable plans to boost job growth, Overhaul last century’s regulations, Stop ripping us off to pay for the generations that stand in front of us, Let us get on with our careers, our business ideas and our dreams, Justin Dent is the   and Policy and Director at GenFKD. Justin grew up in New York City and studies Agricultural Resource Economics and Government at the University of Maryland. 