Arizona Cardinals defensive back Tyrann Mathieu, who grew up with the man accused of killing former New Orleans Saint Will Smith, calls alleged killer Cardell Hayes a “hating ass coward. ”[Until y’all get them crooks out of office and until y’all give these kids something constructive to do, the violence will continue to grow!!  —   Tyrann Mathieu (@Mathieu_Era) April 10, 2016,   They can’t go to parks like I was able to, because the grass ain’t cut  the rims have no nets nor do they even have rims ..  —   Tyrann Mathieu (@Mathieu_Era) April 10, 2016,  The budgets cutting into “education” “recreation” and everything else that is VITAL to a kid having success..  —   Tyrann Mathieu (@Mathieu_Era) April 10, 2016,  Not too mention half of their fathers are in prison  …     So this isn’t coming from an angry place but from a person who has made it out!  —   Tyrann Mathieu (@Mathieu_Era) April 10, 2016,  I know that dude, he been a hating ass coward  …    . Never knew he’d grow up to be a killer tho  …    . May you get what you deserve coward,  —   Tyrann Mathieu (@Mathieu_Era) April 10, 2016,  All they have is music to influence them, and if you listen closely to music now a days, it’s brainwashing them to believe drugs and killing,  —   Tyrann Mathieu (@Mathieu_Era) April 10, 2016,  Are the cool thing to do which is why I’m dropping an album  …     Cause that shit ain’t cool, cool is being a father and being able to provide,  —   Tyrann Mathieu (@Mathieu_Era) April 10, 2016,  Cool is facing adversity and having GOD having a place in your heart and world.  —   Tyrann Mathieu (@Mathieu_Era) April 10, 2016,  Cool is handling things like men not like cowards  …      —   Tyrann Mathieu (@Mathieu_Era) April 10, 2016,  I don’t care what happened, he pull the trigger on an unarmed man  wife  …     PERIOD! !! He stole a man life https:  .   —   Tyrann Mathieu (@Mathieu_Era) April 11, 2016,  Every shot went through his back?? And they saying this coward going to get off??  —   Tyrann Mathieu (@Mathieu_Era) April 11, 2016,  Keep it 1000  …     He was scared as fuck when will jumped out the car, he immediately thought let me grab my gun  shoot?. Coward!  —   Tyrann Mathieu (@Mathieu_Era) April 11, 2016, Hayes allegedly killed Smith after a minor car accident on Saturday night. He also allegedly shot Smith’s wife in the leg after   the couple’s car. Like former LSU standout Mathieu, the towering Hayes starred in high school football in the Big Easy, albeit several years prior to Mathieu generating interest from colleges. “It’s senseless,” Mathieu, who said he looked at Smith as a hero and cried when he died, told Fox Sports Radio. “I’ve lost several uncles, I’ve lost my best friend to gun violence in New Orleans. I felt it was my duty to speak up and to say something about it. ”