A peculiar little man, with long shaggy hair and a white goatee, sat in the front row while Jerry Falwell invited the crowd of 4, 000 and a television audience of several million to join in the singing of “Happy Birthday. ” That peculiar man was Francis Schaeffer. It was January of 1982, the day after Schaeffer’s 70th birthday. Schaeffer, at the request of Falwell, walked to the stage to present the “Christian Manifesto. ” [It’s impossible to overstate Falwell’s contribution in awakening the Moral Majority. But after listening to Schaeffer, it becomes evident that Falwell’s contribution was not born in isolation, as Schaeffer obviously had a seat at the table. Schaeffer boiled it down to a war of ideas between 2 worldviews.   In other words, either God and man have value or God is not there and the world (including man) is nothing more than a cosmic machine. This was the basic dilemma addressed in The Christian Manifesto.  The communists and the humanists have their manifesto, but what about the Christian? What is the Christian Manifesto? I would urge the evangelical believer to consider Schaeffer’s case before voting. Don’t be blinded by anger. Not all anger is righteous.  Christianity is True Truth: Some say we are at the end of the postmodern age. The hallmark of   is relativism. This is the “there are no absolute truths” philosophy. But the question in response to such a statement is “Is it absolutely true that there are no absolute truths?” A relativistic worldview can’t possibly be true because it destroys itself, for when we claim that everything is relative, we end up declaring something that is not relative  —   that “everything is relative. ”  The value of human life if not Arbitrary  Liberal Theology is a Counterfeit, Where have the bible believing Christians and leadership been? The Country was founded on the Christian Faith. In the vein of Martin Luther King Jr. ’s letter penned from the Birmingham Jail, we have a moral duty to disobey our government when it commands something that is contrary to the law of God. As Schaeffer points out, “And if unhappily, it becomes necessary that level includes and open disobedience of the gov’t, we must walk that road. Christ must be the final Lord, and not society and not Caesar. ” No matter how angry you are at the establishment, we must remember that we are citizens of another kingdom. Our first allegiance is there. How does your candidate view the world? 