WASHINGTON  —   In recent weeks, staff members for Bobby Rush, a Democratic congressman from Illinois, have asked fellow lawmakers to sign a letter opposing a Federal Communications Commission proposal to limit how broadband providers can share users’ personal data. Last month, 60 lawmakers signed a separate letter voicing their objections to an F. C. C. regulation that would open the market for cable television   boxes. What the actions have in common: the financial connections and legwork of cable companies like Comcast. The National Cable  Telecommunications Association, an industry lobbying group, said it had edited the letter shared by Mr. Rush’s staff. Cable industry lobbyists also helped gather the 60 signatures on the    letter nearly all of the lawmakers who signed count cable and telecom companies as top campaign donors, according to federal disclosures. The    activity by cable companies and their industry groups is part of the biggest lobbying push by the $115 billion industry in Washington since 2009, when the government drew up its net neutrality rules. These days, the cable and telecom industries are hiring more lobbyists, issuing warnings that they may sue federal agencies, and making speeches and writing scathing blog posts about policy makers. The trigger? A string of proposed regulations by the F. C. C. that has left cable companies feeling besieged. So far this year, the agency has proposed reforming rules on   boxes so that people can pick any television device to receive cable and online video, which could cut into the industry’s $19. 5 billion in annual    rental fees. The F. C. C. also unveiled broadband privacy rules that would make it harder to collect and share data on users for targeted advertising. And the agency also announced a plan to force cable and telecom companies to lease bandwidth to competitors in certain areas, with potential limits on how much they can charge, curbing revenue for such deals. “The policy blows we are weathering are not modest regulatory corrections,” Michael K. Powell, president of the N. C. T. A. said in a speech last month. “They have been thundering, tectonic shifts. ” The cable companies’ frustration has been compounded by concerns that the F. C. C. proposals punish them but reward tech companies like Google. The    proposal could give those companies access to cable and satellite television programming for their devices and let them track viewer habits for their ad businesses. The broadband privacy rules apply only to cable and telecom companies tech companies are not included. The F. C. C. has largely adopted recommendations from Google on    reforms, the cable and telecom companies said. ATT’s senior vice president for external affairs, Jim Cicconi, has called the plan the “Google proposal. ” The cable companies also said the F. C. C. ’s broadband privacy proposal would be much stronger than any restrictions placed on web companies. So the cable industry has harnessed its vast lobbying resources in Washington to fight back. In the first quarter, cable and telecom companies spent $22 million on lobbying, ranking 11th by industry, according to the OpenSecrets website, run by the Center for Responsive Politics. While the spending did not increase from a year earlier, much of the money has gone toward fighting F. C. C. proposals like the    rules, with nearly $2 million paid just to outside lobbyists in the first quarter to work against the proposal, according to federal disclosures. ATT, Comcast, Verizon and the N. C. T. A. are also practicing softer forms of lobbying  —   such as sponsoring studies and consultants who write   articles  —   that cannot be easily traced, analysts and public interest groups like Free Press, which supports several broadband regulations, say. The industry’s focus has been on helping members of Congress write letters of opposition to the F. C. C. including the critical letter shown by Mr. Rush’s staff. The association said an employee contributed “minor suggestions” to the letter from Mr. Rush. Mr. Rush’s spokeswoman, Debra Johnson, said the N. C. T. A. edits “did not change the substance of the letter” and added that the congressman had a history of standing up for consumer protection issues. Some consultants for cable companies have also criticized the F. C. C. proposals. In March, Henry Waxman, a former Democratic congressman from California, wrote a harsh   in The Hill slamming the    plan, without disclosing that he was a consultant for Comcast and had business ties to the N. C. T. A. Mr. Waxman and other lawmakers who have been critical of the    plan said they were not financially motivated to weigh in on the issue. “I don’t represent clients on issues I don’t believe in,” Mr. Waxman said. The cable industry has also responded with a new lobbying group, the Future of TV Coalition, which has been joined by media and movie companies as well as labor unions. The group was formed on the day the F. C. C. announced the    proposal, with a website and statements from companies against the idea. So far, the organization has helped generate 300, 000 comments opposing the    plan through a tool on its website that sends complaints directly to the F. C. C. Timothy Karr, a campaign director for Free Press, said, “There is a huge economy of cable lobbying that is in the dark. ” He added that “lawmakers and think tanks that come out on the side of cable say nothing is quid pro quo, but it’s hard to ignore the financial connections. ” Comcast and ATT declined to comment on their lobbying activities. The N. C. T. A. declined to comment specifically on lobbying but said the    reform was widely unpopular and was also opposed by networks geared toward minority audiences as well as movie studios and labor unions. “We will continue to work with policy makers, companies, civic groups and other interested stakeholders on ideas to promote investment and innovation in today’s highly competitive marketplace for communications and media services,” said Brian Dietz, a spokesman for the association, which represents Comcast, Charter Communications and Cox Communications. The target of much of the cable industry’s ire is Tom Wheeler, chairman of the F. C. C. Mr. Wheeler has also been joined by President Obama, who  endorsed the    proposal in April. “The White House is intervening in order to direct an outcome that favors one company viewed by many as its political ally,” Mr. Cicconi of ATT said in a blog post at the time, in a    reference to Google. Google declined to comment. The F. C. C. said its proposals were aimed at creating more competition in the broadband market and protecting consumers. “These proposals are technology neutral and do not target any one company or sector of the telecommunications industry,” said Kim Hart, a spokeswoman for the F. C. C. “Chairman Wheeler’s proposals are about one thing: promoting meaningful competition among service providers so that consumers can have meaningful choices. ”