The #stumpforTrump internet sensations Diamond and Silk —  black former Democrats who are now Republicans because of Donald Trump —  argued that the mainstream media is giving Bill Clinton a pass on his Black Lives Matter breakdown last week in Philadelphia. [The social media stars have gotten a massive following as their   videos have gone viral online, and Trump himself even brought them up to speak at one of his rallies. Now the dynamic duo, in this exclusive interview with Breitbart News, are hammering away at the Clinton dynasty —  which, if Trump is fortunate enough to get there, would be who the real estate magnate most likely faces off against in a general election.  Diamond told Breitbart News when asked what their thoughts were on Clinton’s Black Lives Matter breakdown in Philadelphia: It looked like he tried to get the Black Lives Matter movement straightthoughts were on Clinton’s Black Lives Matter breakdown in Philadelphia. But let me tell you what I don’t understand, I don’t understand how the media gives him a pass as to what he said is okay but if Donald Trump would have repeated the same thing they would have considered him as being a bigot or a racist. So I think it’s a double standard in the media. Listen, the Black Lives Matter movement I am not fond of what they’re doing and how they’re doing it and how they’re trying to relay their message okay however, Bill Clinton is going to have to face the fact that he did sign a crime bill into law that got thousands of black men locked up where they couldn’t raise their sons or raise their daughters. They’re still in jail locked up today because of the harsh crime bill. I’m not giving anybody a pass to commit a crime, but in that crime bill you had people who didn’t even have a good ounce of marijuana still locked up today, but then you have people down there in Colorado selling drugs and they ain’t getting locked up. So I think that’s what people are looking at.  I’m not a fan of the Clintons nor a fan of Bernie Sanders, I need a straight outsider like Donald Trump to come in and clean up this insider mess from both sides. So I think the only one who can get the job done is Donald Trump and he’ll be the best for the American people. Last week in Philadelphia, former U. S. president Bill Clinton —  his wife Hillary’s top surrogate —  sounded off on Black Lives Matter. “I don’t know how you would characterize the gang leaders who got    kids hopped up on crack and sent them out into the street to murder other African American children —  maybe you thought they were good citizens,” Bill Clinton shouted at Black Lives Matter hecklers in the audience at a rally. He also said that a place where Black Lives Matter is in Africa, and argued Hillary’s work as Secretary of State saved lots of black people’s lives on that continent across the Atlantic ocean. Diamond and Silk represent a new type of Republican primary voter whose existence has baffled the professional political class and propelled business mogul Donald Trump to significant leads in both delegates and the popular vote nationwide. They think that Trump’s appeal to former Democrats like themselves will help him in a general election winning over minorities like black people and Hispanics. “I’m looking for Donald Trump to get a lot of the African American vote,” Silk told Breitbart News. “People at the end of the day they want good jobs, they want to feel safe and secure, and they want to be united. We believe Donald Trump is going to get the majority of the African American vote. ” Diamond added that what inspires her about Trump are his border security plans and economic plans. “Three things: I want to secure the border, that’s going to keep us safe,” Diamond said when asked what inspires her about Trump. “I want to bring back good jobs, we need them if you want our country to thrive, if you want people to stop killing people in the streets, if you want people, minorities especially, to stop burning down their communities. I want to bring back spirit, we’re so tired of our country being divided. This is the United States, not the divided states, and it’s time for us to unite, roll up our sleeves and get our country back on track. It’s going to take all of us to help Donald J. Trump make America great. ” Silk said that the duo is leading, for that reason, an effort they call “ditch and switch” to get more blacks and Hispanics to cross over and vote for Trump. “That’s the reason we started ditch and switch,” Silk said. “We knew that we wanted to vote for him in the primaries, not just in the general election, we wanted to do it early and that’s why we started ditchandswitchnow. com so that if you’re Democrat or Independent you switch your party to Republican solely to vote for Donald Trump in the primary. The good thing about it is that you have people who have never voted before that’s registered as a Republican just to vote for Donald Trump in the primary. There are a lot of minorities that have switched their parties.  Whites, blacks, Hispanics, people all across the demographics that have switched their party to vote just solely for Donald J. Trump and they used ditchandswitchnow. com. He’s pulling in people and he’s pulling millions of more people and I don’t understand why the GOP, the RNC, and the establishment don’t see that. ”