You would be   to find someone more devoted to the Cleveland Browns than Jeff Stemler. He exulted over the wins. After losses, he was so angry that he couldn’t speak. The team was part of his identity. It started in his childhood, when the quarterback Brian Sipe led the Browns to improbable   victories. As an adult, Mr. Stemler became a   holder. He cried when the team moved to Baltimore in 1995, and he found love again when the National Football League awarded Cleveland with a new Browns franchise in 1998. But somehow, after hundreds of Sundays at the stadium or in the television glow, it all came to an end. It wasn’t because the Browns were bad, necessarily. It was something else. Something deeper. Mr. Stemler, a    landscape supplies salesman in Columbus, Ohio, pinpoints the moment to a Sunday in October 2014, when the Browns thumped the Pittsburgh Steelers,  . As giddy fans spoke of a new era in Cleveland, Mr. Stemler felt nothing. “Is this really what makes me happy?” he asked himself. “Everyone is going nuts, and I’m just kind of sitting there,” Mr. Stemler added. “I remember this guy looking at me and asking: ‘What’s wrong? Why aren’t you excited? ’” The strange feeling did not go away. “I think I have gotten to a point in my life where I need to let things go that don’t bring me enjoyment,” he said. “I think as you get older, you realize you don’t hang on to things that don’t bring you joy. If it’s not making me happy, then why do it? Don’t just do it because you feel like you should be doing it. That’s what I was doing  —   I was going up every Sunday for the Browns, and I was dreading it. ” Most fans develop a bond with a team as children. For reasons that may go unquestioned, they stick with it, no matter the emotional toll. In the view of the New Yorker writer and editor Roger Angell, our connection to sports is ultimately tied to caring: “deeply and passionately, really caring  —   which is a capacity or an emotion that has almost gone out of our lives,” he wrote in 1975. But then there are those fans who begin to question why they care so much. Once doubt takes hold, they wonder why they spend so much time and emotion on mere games. Before they know it, they are on a path that takes them away from the majority culture for whom sports adulation is the norm. Julio Guerrero, 33, was an impressionable boy when the quarterback Brett Favre came on the scene for the Green Bay Packers in 1992. As Favre gave new life to the Packers, Mr. Guerrero, who lives in Milwaukee and manages a call center, became devoted to the team and joined the Sunday ritual that defines football fandom. “You don’t miss a game unless you have like a really special family function, like a wedding or a funeral,” he said. “That is part of your Sunday. It’s part of the culture. It’s what you do. You go to work five days a week and you make sure you watch the Packers. ” Mr. Guerrero embraced Favre’s style of play. Here was an unruly kid from Mississippi who won over Green Bay fans with his gunslinger style and led the team to a Super Bowl victory. It seemed as if the fun would go on forever. But when Favre left the Packers in 2008, Mr. Guerrero sensed his devotion starting to wane. Somehow he couldn’t relate to Favre’s successor, Aaron Rodgers, and he realized his fandom had reached an end when he wasn’t thrilled by the Packers’ Super Bowl victory in 2011. He no longer spends his Sundays in front of the TV. He has become the guy at work who can’t talk about the game on Monday morning. He has built a new life for himself that doesn’t include football. “I think the new set of friends I have are more into music and movies and arts, which is more of what I am into these days,” Mr. Guerrero said. “I don’t really feel that connected anymore to people who go to the bar and watch the football game every Sunday. ” Even before he attended the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Robert McNees lived for its basketball team, the Tar Heels. Now an associate professor of physics at Loyola University Chicago, he can still see a freshman named Michael Jordan hitting the game winner against Georgetown in the 1982 N. C. A. A. tournament championship game. Dr. McNees’s affection for the team lasted well after he graduated. But as he grew older, he began to realize that much of his emotional attachment was bound to his fond memories of his college days. His moment of reckoning came in 2012. After holding a   lead with two and a half minutes to go against Duke, North Carolina ended up losing at the buzzer. Dr. McNees was inconsolable. Then he started to question himself. “I was bummed out after that,” he said. “Then I was bummed out about the fact that I was so bummed out about it. Why? These are two groups of   to    playing a game. It should not have that much of an impact on a grown man. ” Dr. McNees, 43, decided to take a step back. He has not sworn off the Tar Heels altogether, but he no longer watches every game. And when he does, he is careful not to allow the outcome to ruin his day. Finding that kind of middle ground is not an option for most fans, including Rob Jordan, a    lawyer in Manhattan. As a child, he had posters of the baseball stars Ken Griffey Jr. and Mike Piazza on the walls of his bedroom. As Mike Schmidt cried while announcing his retirement at a 1989 news conference, Mr. Jordan wept right along with him. His fandom deepened with the rise of fantasy sports. He became well versed in even the most obscure baseball, basketball and football players, and he said he won thousands of dollars as a result of his expertise. About the time he turned 30, he decided that fantasy sports was no longer the best use of his time. And it wasn’t a big step from cutting out fantasy to leaving behind sports fandom altogether. Recently, Mr. Jordan gave up cable TV, meaning he no longer has access to ESPN. He didn’t bother to watch an inning of the 2016 World Series  —   not even Game 7, which was viewed by 40 million  —   although it was broadcast on network television. “I think there was a point where I consciously looked around and said, ‘Hey, I can keep admiring and celebrating the accomplishments of somebody else for a minimal amount of   entertainment value, or I can better allocate that time toward my own dreams and projects,’” Mr. Jordan said. “Clearly, I came out on the side of the latter. ” “It got to a point where even seeing a grown man in his   wearing a jersey with some other name on the back struck me as immature and odd,” he added. “You say, ‘Come on man, grow up. ’”