Planned Parenthood president Cecile Richards is in Nevada, ready to campaign for Hillary Clinton, even after Bernie Sanders beat Clinton by 11 points among women in New Hampshire. [After all, the abortion business is counting on her to keep its industry’s status as a recipient of taxpayer funding.  Next stop  —   Nevada. Hope I see y’all there!  —   Cecile Richards (@CecileRichards) February 10, 2016,  Clinton was handed a crushing defeat in New Hampshire by populist candidate Sanders, who has framed Clinton as the “establishment” Democrat candidate with strong ties to Wall Street, while he has also referred to Planned Parenthood and LGBT rights group the Human Rights Campaign  —   which have endorsed Clinton  —   as merely “part of the political establishment. ” So proud to stand with @HillaryClinton  —   no one will work harder to expand access to #reprohealth. #ImWithHer pic. twitter.   —   Cecile Richards (@CecileRichards) February 10, 2016,  Richards is campaigning Wednesday in northern Nevada, and will hold campaign stops in Fernley, Carson City, and Reno, reports the Reno  . The Democrats’ caucus in Nevada is February 20. “Let’s be clear  —   reproductive rights and health are on the ballot in 2016,” Richards said in a statement, and continued: It is unthinkable that our daughters and granddaughters would have fewer rights than my generation did, yet every single GOP candidate for president wants to erase decades of progress for women  —   pledging to cut access to Planned Parenthood, restricting safe, legal abortion, and blocking the availability of affordable birth control. Richards’ organization has suffered considerable damage in recent months following the release of a series of undercover videos exposing the abortion business’ apparent practices of selling the body parts of aborted babies on the open market, and altering the position of babies during abortions in order to harvest the most intact organs. Several congressional committees are currently investigating Planned Parenthood as a result. . @HillaryClinton is a trailblazer,  we’re as proud as ever to stand with her. #ImWithHer #NHPrimary pic. twitter.   —   NARAL (@NARAL) February 10, 2016,  In addition, individual states have been passing numerous laws to restrict abortions past a certain stage of pregnancy and to shore up safety for women in abortion facilities. After a desperate year, Planned Parenthood officially endorsed Clinton  —   the first time the abortion business has ever endorsed a primary candidate. Feminist Camille Paglia recently wrote that Hillary Clinton’s adoption of a “  ” brand of feminism that “defines women as perpetual victims” who need protection and salvation from the government could be costly to her campaign. “It remains baffling how anyone would think that Hillary Clinton (born the same year as me) is our party’s best chance,” Paglia asserted. “She has more sooty baggage than a   freight train. And what exactly has she ever accomplished  —   beyond bullishly covering for her philandering husband?” A Marist College Institute for Public Opinion poll released recently found a full 81 percent of Americans favor some restrictions on abortion  —   including limiting the procedure after the first three months  —   and a continued ban on public funding of abortion. In the survey of 1, 700 Americans, even 66 percent of respondents who identify themselves as   say, “Abortion should be allowed, at most, in the first trimester, in cases of rape, incest or to save the life of the mother, or never permitted. ”