LONDON  —   Oscar Pistorius, the   Olympic runner who shot his girlfriend to death in 2013, is unfit to testify at his sentencing for murder, a defense psychologist said as a hearing opened on Monday in a court in Pretoria, South Africa. “Currently, in my opinion, he is not able to testify,” the psychologist, Jonathan Scholtz, told Judge Thokozile Matilda Masipa of the High Court in Pretoria, arguing that Mr. Pistorius should be hospitalized rather than imprisoned. “His condition is severe. ” Under questioning from Mr. Pistorius’s defense lawyer, Barry Roux, Dr. Scholtz gave a largely sympathetic account of Mr. Pistorius’s background, personality and mental health. Dr. Scholtz said Mr. Pistorius showed symptoms of depression, anxiety and   stress disorder. He also said Mr. Pistorius was taking psychiatric medication and had problems with   memory. Gerrie Nel, the chief prosecutor, rejected that argument, saying that Mr. Pistorius had not expressed remorse for the death of his girlfriend, Reeva Steenkamp. Mr. Nel also questioned Dr. Scholtz’s assertion that Mr. Pistorius was unable to testify, given that Mr. Pistorius recently gave an interview, his first about the killing, to the television network ITV. The interview is scheduled to be broadcast on June 24, which is probably after his sentencing. Guidelines call for a sentence of at least 15 years, but the judge has discretion to render a lighter or tougher sentence. The decision, which is not expected until later this week, will bring to a close a case that has riveted and divided South Africa. Mr. Pistorius, 29, was found guilty in December of murdering Ms. Steenkamp after South Africa’s top appeals court overturned a lower court’s conviction on the lesser charge of manslaughter. The court found that the earlier conviction had been based on a misinterpretation of laws and an erroneous dismissal of circumstantial evidence. The appeals court said Mr. Pistorius, who insists that he accidentally killed Ms. Steenkamp under the mistaken belief that an intruder had broken into his home, should have foreseen that his actions would kill someone. He fired four shots through a locked bathroom door, killing Ms. Steenkamp, who was on the other side. In a country with a high crime rate, the fear of home intrusion cuts across social and racial lines, and high walls and security guards are common in gated communities like the one where Mr. Pistorius lived in Pretoria. Mr. Pistorius’s arrest in the killing of Ms. Steenkamp on Feb. 14, 2013, sent South Africans reeling. Known as the Blade Runner for the flexible   prosthetic legs he used when competing, Mr. Pistorius achieved worldwide fame by challenging   athletes, most notably at the 2012 London Games. He won medals at the 2004, 2008 and 2012 Summer Paralympics. Ms. Steenkamp, who was 29 at the time of her death, was a model, a law school graduate and a budding   star. In September 2014  —   after a lengthy and highly publicized trial that was likened to the   trial of O. J. Simpson in the United States  —   Judge Masipa convicted Mr. Pistorius of culpable homicide but found him not guilty of murder. She found that prosecutors had failed to present “strong circumstantial evidence” and to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that Mr. Pistorius had shown intent to kill. Prosecutors, and Ms. Steenkamp’s family, argued that Mr. Pistorius had deliberately killed his girlfriend after an argument. Although Mr. Pistorius was regarded as a hero to many in South Africa, the trial revealed another, darker side: a man with a mercurial temper, given to jealousy and occasional anger an aggressive driver an irresponsible gun owner and a celebrity who was used to getting his way. In their appeal, prosecutors argued that Judge Masipa had misinterpreted a crucial legal concept in finding Mr. Pistorius not guilty of murder. They argued that, under a legal principle known as dolus eventualis, Mr. Pistorius should be found guilty because he should have known that firing through the locked door would kill the person inside. The Supreme Court of Appeal, in Bloemfontein, agreed. Mr. Pistorius was released from prison in October after serving one year of the   sentence for manslaughter, and he has been living under house arrest. Dr. Scholtz called Mr. Pistorius’s relationship with Ms. Steenkamp “a normal, loving relationship,” with “no signs of abuse or coercion. ” Dr. Scholtz said that Mr. Pistorius “has found some solace in the belief that the deceased is with God,” and that he was enrolled in a degree program at the University of London. He argued that further incarceration “would not be psychologically or socially constructive” and that Mr. Pistorius was not a threat to society. Mr. Pistorius, once a gun enthusiast, has sold his firearms, Dr. Scholtz said. “He is adamant that he never wants to touch or handle a firearm again,” the psychiatrist said. But Mr. Nel, who   Dr. Scholtz, suggested that Mr. Pistorius had not expressed remorse. “Does he understand that he committed murder?” Mr. Nel asked. “Yes,” Dr. Scholtz said. “In what way?” Mr. Nel asked. The prosecutor then made it clear that he was unconvinced.