Democrat vice presidential candidate Tim Kaine claims he never loses to the NRA, but he has. [He assumed the office of U. S. Senator for Virginia in January 2013 and immediately threw his support behind Senator Joe Manchin’s ( )   Hook gun control legislation. The NRA opposed the legislation and it was soundly defeated on April 17, 2013.  Moreover, just one day after the December 2, 2015 San Bernardino terror attack Senate Democrats tried to use the heightened sense of emotion to squeak through a gun control bill adding terror   to background checks —  although the San Bernardino attackers were not on any list. MSNBC reported that every Democrat Senator except Heidi Heitkamp ( ) voted for the gun control. The NRA opposed it. The measure was defeated. Following the June 12, 2016 Orlando terror attack Kaine   an amendment which would have added   to background checks thereby expanding gun control. The amendment was authored by Senator Dianne Eeinstein ( ) and would have given the Attorney General of the United States the power to intervene without due process and block people suspected —  but not convicted —  of crimes from buying a gun. The NRA opposed this amendment and it was defeated on June 20. Those are three loses that are easy to find. But besides those three, Kaine “never” loses to the NRA. He avoids mentioning the three legislative loses —  and any others like them —  by pointing only to instances in which he won. Namely, when running for office. The Washington Post reports that Kaine told the Progressive National Baptist Convention, “The NRA, I know these guys, because they’re headquartered in Virginia, and when I run, they run against me, every time. And I’m   in races  —   they’ve never beaten me. ” He caveated his claim by admitting he could lose “next time,” but added, “If they were that strong, I would have lost one before now. ” So Kaine beats the NRA every time, except when he supports gun control legislation in 2013, 2015, and 2016. AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.