San Diego businessman Barry Bahrami has filed papers with the state Attorney General’s office to secure a referenda to repeal the six gun controls in “Gunmageddon. ”[The new gun controls  —   which include ammunition background checks, a statewide ban on “high capacity” magazines, and an expansion of  “assault weapon” laws  —   were signed into law by Governor Jerry Brown (D) on July 1. .  According to the Los Angeles Times, Bahrami is “the CEO of Commercial Network Services. ” In his correspondence with the Attorney General’s office, he wrote “Veto Gunmageddon,” and on his Facebook page he wrote, “Oh no, they passed a new gun control law, I need to go and turn in all my guns —   said no criminal ever. ” The six specific laws being targeted for repeal are: SB 880 by Sen. Isadore Hall ( ) and AB 1135 by Assemblyman Marc Levine (  Rafael) which together ban the sale of semiautomatic guns with “bullet buttons” allowing easy replacement of the ammunition magazine.  —  AB 1695 by Assemblyman Rob Bonta ( ) which makes it a crime to fail to report a gun lost or stolen.  —   SB 1235 by De León requires those buying ammunition to undergo a background check to make sure they are not a felon.  —  SB 1446 by Sen. Loni Hancock ( ) which outlaws the possession of ammunition magazines that hold more than ten bullets.  —  AB 1511 by Assemblyman Miguel Santiago (  Angeles) which prohibits   loans of firearms to people other than immediate family members. Bahrami now has 90 days to collect 365, 000 signatures to bring a repeal of the laws to a ballot. He plans to accomplish this by using gun stores around the state for signature collection. He said: “The only certainty is that it’s an impossible challenge if we don’t at least try. By my math we can do it if we hustle.  We have more than two thousand gun stores in this state.  We will be leveraging these gun stores and numerous volunteers from the communities to get the petitions signed. ” If he fails to qualify his repeals for the 2016 ballot, he may be able to do so by 2018. AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.