PIEDRAS NEGRAS, Coahuila  —   Two cartel gunmen killed a young woman as she walked out of a local restaurant. The assassins switched vehicles as they made their escape. [The murder took place when    Jessica Silva Martinez walked out of a restaurant named Mario’s Steak House. Martinez was walking out with her current boyfriend identified only as Carlos Estrada Rojas and his sister Juana Estrada Rojas when the gunmen caught up with them.   According to information provided to Breitbart Texas by investigators in Coahuila, two gunmen riding in a silver Chrysler 300 pulled up to the entrance of the bar. Once the vehicle was in front of the couple, the gunmen drew . 40 caliber pistols and began shooting. The exact number of shots remains uncertain, but authorities revealed that one of the shots struck the victim in the chest.  The victim’s boyfriend and his sister rushed her to a local hospital. Due to the extent of her injuries, Silva Martinez died en route. Forensic information revealed that one of the shots pierced an artery near her heart.  The two gunmen are described as being between the ages of 35 and 40 and were last seen riding in a small Chrysler sedan. Just four blocks from the scene of the murder, authorities located the automobile used by the assassins, pointing to the gunmen having switched vehicles. The Chrysler sedan did not have license plates or other identifying marks, revealing that the vehicle was likely stolen. Preliminary information points to the Silva Martinez having received threats prior to her murder. Editor’s Note: Breitbart Texas traveled to the Mexican States of Tamaulipas, Coahuila and Nuevo León to recruit citizen journalists willing to risk their lives and expose the cartels silencing their communities.  The writers would face certain death at the hands of the various cartels that operate in those areas including the Gulf Cartel and Los Zetas if a pseudonym were not used. Breitbart Texas’ Cartel Chronicles are published in both English and in their original Spanish. This article was written by “J. M. Martinez” from Piedras Negras, Coahuila. 