Breitbart editor Milo Yiannopoulos is set to deliver a major speech at the University of Houston on Monday, entitled “How to Destroy the  . ”[The speech is expected to be one of his most substantial addresses to an American university so far, and will include references to Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton’s speech on the   in which she read out two of Milo’s headlines in horrified tones.  The speech will cover where the   came from, what it is, and how the Left can destroy it  —   assuming it’s not already too late. He is expected to lay the blame for the rise of the movement, as well as the popularity of Donald Trump and himself, at the feet of progressive activists, the   media, liberal college professors, Hollywood, and    political correctness. Milo, who has spoken extensively about the   over the past few months,   a guide to the movement in March entitled “An Establishment Conservative’s Guide to the  ” with Allum Bokhari, which was covered by news outlets all over the world, including the Washington Post, the Boston Globe, BBC News, and the Daily Mail. He does not describe himself as a member of the   but the press has been desperate to crown him a figurehead, as he explained to CNBC recently.  Explaining his decision on the theme of the speech, Milo said “The alt right has been attacked as racist, sexist, transphobic, Islamophobic and homophobic by journalists who show no interest in understanding something they helped to create”. Milo’s event at the University of Houston will be his second date in the recently continued Dangerous Faggot tour, which started its second leg at Texas Tech on Monday. In Milo’s new tour bus, which is emblazoned with his logo, the name of the tour, and of course  —   five pictures of his face, he is currently travelling across the east and west coasts, stopping at a wide range of schools including Yale, Vanderbilt, and Stanford until the tour’s finale in February. You can see the current dates on the Dangerous Faggot tour at Milo’s website here. Charlie Nash is a reporter for Breitbart Tech. You can follow him on Twitter @MrNashington or like his page at Facebook.