U. S. Border Patrol agents from the Tucson Sector captured two previously deported sex offenders and a several human smugglers in the past week. The smugglers stashed cargo in the trunks of their cars in the Arizona heat. [Border Patrol agents assigned to the Nogales Station captured a Honduran national on Sunday, according to information obtained by Breitbart Texas from U. S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officials. When the agents took the Honduran male to the station for processing, a records check revealed a conviction in 2010 in California for committing a “lewd or lascivious act with a child under 14,” officials stated. The man spent eight months in a California prison.  The following day, agents arrested a Mexican national who had crossed the border illegally. A records check on the man revealed a 2008 conviction in New York City on a charge of forcibly touching another person’s “ ” parts, CBP reported. The man spent 60 days in jail on that charge. Agents assigned to the State Route 82 checkpoint arrested a U. S. citizen they discovered attempting to smuggle three adult Mexican nationals in the trunk of the car on October 5. Other agents working the Interstate 19 checkpoint on October 3 arrested two U. S. citizens for attempting to smuggle two Mexican nationals and a Peruvian national. The following day, the agents arrested another U. S. citizen for allegedly smuggling two adult Mexican nationals. CBP officials also reported a September 24 arrest of person of undisclosed nationality by agents assigned to the Tucson Station. The alleged human smuggler was reported to be carrying an adult Guatemalan in the trunk of the car. The five U. S. citizens were arrested and turned over to Homeland Security Investigations for possible prosecution on charges of human smuggling. The foreign nationals, including the two sex offenders, will be “processed in accordance with Tucson Sector guidelines,” officials stated. Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas. He is a founding member of the Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX.