Presumptive Republican nominee Donald Trump’s campaign manager Corey Lewandowski joined guest host Matthew Boyle on Breitbart News Saturday on SiriusXM Patriot Channel 125 and expressed disbelief over the behavior of protesters outside Trump’s campaign rallies toward police officers. [“At the end of the day, I think part of the job of the President of the United States is to ensure the safety of our families,” Lewandowski, who previously worked with the New Hampshire State Police, explained. “These guys are out, in the most part, doing their job. It’s a very difficult job,” he said about the police, adding it’s a “dangerous job. ”  “These are individuals who aren’t in this for the glory, they’re not in it to get rich   …     [police are] in it for the good of the people,” Lewandowski said. He went on to criticize Hillary Clinton and the Democratic Party establishment, including President Obama. Lewandowski said Hillary Clinton is a flawed candidate, adding, “even her base doesn’t want her. ” He commented on the “massive disconnect in the Democratic Party,” predicting that “she’s probably going to win the state of New Jersey,” but “Bernie Sanders is going to win California. That has to be a real   call. ” Lewandowski touted that Trump, based on the number of votes he’s received and people attending his campaign rallies, is putting places in play that Hillary Clinton is supposed to have controlled. “They are trying to steal this election from Bernie,” he added about the Democratic Party establishment. Lewandowski said Trump has spent more than $50 million of his own money on this race with a fraction of the staff that Clinton has had. “The Trump campaign 70  …    we have  ” the staff Clinton has, but “we get better results. ” Lewandowski also slammed Obama for apologizing for America to foreign countries, saying it’s time to stop feeling like Americans have to apologize all the time. “That’s not what the American people want. ” “They want you to focus here,” he explained. “For us to go and apologize for something  …    that’s a blight on the administration,”  he added, stressing it’s important to be proud to be American. Breitbart News Saturday airs from 10 a. m. to 1 p. m. every Saturday on SiriusXM Patriot Channel 125.