The   for Donald Trump’s Sunday rally in Alabama includes victims of the immigration and   policies favored by Sen. Marco Rubio. [The speakers include two of Rubio’s constituents who were victims of the   outsourcing program, as well as Chris Crane, president of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Council.  This rally comes on the heels of a bombshell New York Times report documenting how Rupert Murdoch and Fox News colluded with Rubio to minimize public opposition to the passage of Rubio’s amnesty and   expansion bill that was backed by President Barack Obama. The two Disney workers, Leo Perrero and Dena Moore, were laid off last year and forced to train their   foreign replacements, who were brought in to the country on   guest worker visas. Their foreign replacements are just a small part of the workforce of roughly 650, 000     foreign workers now holding jobs in the United States. While Donald Trump has called on Disney to hire back all of its American employees, Rubio has sought to expand the   program. As recently as last year, Sen. Rubio introduced legislation —  endorsed by Disney’s CEO Bob Iger via his immigration lobbying firm —  to triple the issuances of  . Disney is one of Rubio’s top financial donors, having given more than $2 million according to Open Secrets. Dena Moore, one of those victims, recently told Breitbart News that she is voting for Donald Trump. Rubio “never reached out” to the hundreds of Disney workers who were replaced by   visas, she said. “I do believe that politicians will always side with who pays them directly or indirectly,” Moore said of Rubio’s financial ties to Disney. “They will say and do whatever it takes because they’re not being held accountable. ” Moore said that she is supporting Trump because “Trump is standing up to the bullies. ” “The American people are now the weak ones being bullied,” and Trump “is the champion who stands up to the bullies   …     for us,” he said. ICE Council President Chris Crane is also set to speak at the rally. Crane is an ICE officer of 13 years, he is a former U. S. Marine, a lifetime member of the Veterans of Foreign Wars and a lifetime member of the American Legion. When President Obama enacted his first executive amnesty in 2012, Crane and nine of his fellow immigration officers sued the President to try to stop the lawless amnesty. Jeff Sessions has described Crane as an “American hero” for his whistle blowing on the immigration corruption. Crane was also a vocal opponent of Rubio’s signature Gang of Eight bill. Crane’s primary criticism of Rubio’s immigration plan was that it gutted interior enforcement and would give amnesty to illegal aliens who were sex offenders, gang members and criminal convicts. After Crane documented how Rubio treated law enforcement “like absolute trash” in an interview with Breitbart News last week, Rubio sought to smear Crane’s reputation on national television —   falsely asserting that Crane’s criticisms of the bill pertained to “more kind of labor union stuff” rather than keeping the American people safe. However, a 2013 letter obtained by Breitbart News bolsters Crane’s charges. In 2013 immediately following his meeting with Rubio, Crane wrote a letter to Rubio in which he detailed his specific concerns with the bill: “Speaking on behalf of our nation’s ICE agents and officers, I believe there are many crucial measures missing from this legislation that must be resolved before it is introduced. Based on news reports, it is my understanding that you are filing the bill today. I hope that can be delayed so that our officers and experts can provide real legislative input on the areas we discussed last night: the lack of ICE resources, how current ICE enforcement practices leave the nation open to tactics used by the   terrorists, DHS directives that release dangerous criminal aliens back into our communities, the need for biometric   the administration’s dangerous abuse of prosecutorial discretion, our inability to make street arrests, the breakdown of enforcement in our jails, the disciplining of officers for doing their jobs —  these are only some of the many crucial interior enforcement issues not addressed in this legislation  …     If these issues are not resolved, I have no doubt —  based on my law enforcement experience —  that this proposal would further hamstring the ability of our officers to protect the public. ” After Rubio began to attack Crane’s reputation, other   officers spoke out on Crane’s   —   including Sheriff Paul Babeu, Sheriff Tom Hodgson, Sheriff Sam Page, and former U. S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) President Ken Palinkas. The rally is set to begin at 3pm Central Time.