BATON ROUGE, Louisiana  —   In a heartfelt moment during a campaign rally in Charlotte, North Carolina, GOP nominee Donald Trump spoke directly to Louisiana flood victims, offering his prayers to the thousands devastated by the natural disaster. [“I’d like to take a moment to talk about the heartbreak and devastation in Louisiana, a state that is very, very special to me,” Trump told the crowd at the opening of his rally.  “When one state hurts, we all hurt. ”   sends a message to Louisiana flood victims ahead of his Friday visithttps:  .   —   FOX  Friends (@foxandfriends) August 19, 2016,  “We are one nation. When one state hurts, we all hurt,” Trump continued. “And we must all work together to lift each other up. ” “I hope everyone in Louisiana knows that our country is praying for them and standing with them to help them in these difficult hours,” Trump said. “They are very, very difficult. ” Trump talked of the flooding crisis in Louisiana just as a local Baton Rouge newspaper, the Advocate, called President Obama out for refusing to cut his vacation short in order to visit the flooded areas, as Breitbart Texas reported. “And if the president can interrupt his vacation for a swanky fundraiser for fellow Democrat Hillary Clinton, as he did on Monday, then surely he can make time to show up for a catastrophe that’s displaced thousands,” the Advocate’s editorial read. Obama was one of those critics, blasting Bush during a 2008 speech at Tulane University, as Breitbart News reported. Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton has yet to make an official statement or even comment on the   areas of Louisiana. Clinton tweeted days ago that she was “closely monitoring” the floods in the state, but has since not mentioned it at her campaign rallies. At least 13 residents have died due to the unprecedented flooding, with more than 20, 000 being rescued so far by law enforcement and emergency officials, Breitbart Texas reported. Trump is expected to visit the flooded areas of the state Friday. John Binder is a contributor for Breitbart Texas. Follow him on Twitter at @JxhnBinder.