Rep. Vern Buchanan ( ) tells Breitbart News he is stunned by the irresponsible conduct of President Barack Obama and his 10, 000 Syrian refugee scheme, and he wants it stopped. [“It’s beyond reckless to continue accepting Syrian refugees, let alone accelerate the process when we know screening is inadequate,” Buchanan says. He chairs the Human Resources Subcommittee and is   of the bipartisan caucus of Florida congressmen.  “Enough is enough, it’s time to put America’s security first,” the congressman said. Buchanan also released an Aug. 4 letter to the president, where he spelled out his concerns and demanded Obama stop his dangerous policies —  especially in the light of the comments by FBI Director James B. Comey Jr. at the sixth annual International Conference on Cyber Security at New York City’s Fordham University, when he said the defeat of ISIS soldiers in Syria and Iraq will likely result in their dispersal elsewhere, including America. It is assessment shared by Washington’s national security community. “The chilling prediction by FBI Director James Comey of ‘a terrorist diaspora out of Syria like we’ve never seen before’ warrants an immediate freeze on Syrian refugees,” he wrote in his letter to the president. “I urge you to immediately stop accepting Syrian refugees as a matter of national security. ” Buchanan wrote: “Terrorists are leaving Syria disguised as refugees and carrying out attacks in the West. The prudent course of action is to halt all admissions of Syrians into the U. S. until the safety of Americans can be guaranteed. ” A Capitol Hill source familiar with the congressman’s thinking on the issue said he was troubled by data from the State Department Refugee Processing Center that reported that a total of 7, 751 Syrian refugees have been admitted into the U. S. since the beginning of last October, and nearly 5, 000 in the last two months alone. This surge towards the president’s goal of 10, 000 before October continues without regard to security concerns. The source said Buchanan he was also alarmed by Director of National Intelligence James Clapper’s warning to United States national security personnel that he would not put it past the likes of ISIS to infiltrate operatives among these refugees bound to the United States when discussing bringing refugees into America. Buchanan also wrote in his letter that   terrorism is on the rise. “We are seeing a clear pattern in which a number of recent attacks have been carried out by ISIS terrorists with ties to Syria, including: the July 24 bombing of a music festival in Germany the July 26 killing of a French priest and the July 24 murder of a German woman with a machete. Syrian refugees played a part, either as attackers or accomplices, in all three attacks. ” The congressman wrote to Obama that his surge mentality heading into his Sept. 30 goal was contrary to comments by his own White House spokesman Josh Ernest, who said it takes     full vetting process because in Ernest’s words: ” The reason for that process is that the safety and security of the U. S. homeland comes first. ” Instead of waving Syrian refugees into the United States, the congressman made the case for territory in Syria to be cordoned off as a protectorate for them. “I urge you to work with world leaders to create a safe zone for refugees inside Syria or in a neighboring country,” he wrote. “The U. S. could support the resettlement of 12 refugees in the Middle East for the cost of caring for one refugee in the U. S. ” Buchanan said the lives of Americans must come before providing refugee assistance. “Terrorists are leaving Syria disguised as refugees and carrying out attacks in the West,” Buchanan said. “The prudent course of action is to halt all admissions of Syrians into the U. S. until the safety of Americans can be guaranteed. ”