According to National Review, Juanita Broaddrick joined Twitter in 2009 but rarely uses her account. Wednesday, Broaddrick, one of the many women who claims to be a victim of both Hillary and Bill Clinton, returned to Twitter. “I was 35 years old when Bill Clinton, Ark. Attorney General raped me and Hillary tried to silence me,” Broaddrick wrote. “I am now 73  …    . it never goes away. ”   —   I was 35 years old when Bill Clinton, Ark. Attorney General raped me and Hillary tried to silence me. I am now 73  …    . it never goes away.  —   Juanita Broaddrick (@atensnut) January 6, 2016,  —   Broaddrick also   this cartoon that references the double standard when it comes to Bill Cosby and Bill Clinton:  —   @VickiBalfour @atensnut @kathleenwilley @jlanglegal @USATODAY pic. twitter.   —   Chris Manno (@CartoonDept) January 6, 2016,   —   Tuesday Broaddrick tweeted, “Was dreading seeing my abuser on tv campaign trail for enabler wife   …     but his physical appearance reflects ghosts of past are catching up[. ]”  —   Was dreading seeing my abuser on tv campaign trail for enabler wife  …      …    but his physical appearance reflects ghosts of past are catching up,  —   Juanita Broaddrick (@atensnut) January 5, 2016,  —   In September, Broaddrick referred directly to Hillary’s comments about how we should believe sexual assault victims:  —   Thoroughly disgusting —  Hillary’s comments on rape. Shame on you, Hillary, shame on you!!  —   Juanita Broaddrick (@atensnut) September 15, 2015,   —   Broaddrick is also the victim of a depraved and partisan DC Media that worked just as hard to silence and intimidate her as Hillary allegedly did. For decades, the DC Media has done everything in its power to protect the man who Broadrrick claims raped her. Despite more than a dozen women alleging various forms of sexual abuse at the hands of Bill Clinton, and a then second round of abuse at the hands of his   Hillary, not one of those women has received anything but derision and dismissal from the DC Media  —   the very same DC Media that blew up a single allegation against Clarence Thomas into a   media circus. With our media, when it comes to sexual assault and harassment charges, white Democrats sure got it good.   Follow John Nolte on Twitter @NolteNC                