Texans with a “Concealed Handgun License” or the new “License to Carry” can openly carry a handgun in accordance with the new law that went into effect at midnight on Friday. [Other new laws expanding protections of law abiding gun owners also went into effect. The Campus Carry law has not yet taken effect.  Late in 2015, the Texas Department of Public Safety (DPS) began issuing the new “License to Carry” (LTC). The new license replaces the prior Concealed Handgun License (CHL). If you currently hold a CHL do you not need to get an updated LTC, according to a statement obtained by Breitbart Texas from the DPS. A rally will be held on Friday at about 1 p. m. on the grounds of the Texas Capitol to celebrate the new   law. The event, sponsored by Open Carry Texas and Texas Carry, is expected to draw about 300 people and a swarm of news media outlets. The rally, dubbed the “Official Uncovering of the Handgun Rally” is being held to celebrate the returned freedom of open carry in Texas. The DPS offers the following guidelines to understanding the new law: Licensees will need to be aware of the new “30. 07  signs” that some stores and businesses will be able to post prohibiting the open carry of firearms. The sign must be posted at all entrances to the business establishment. It must be posted in English and Spanish and must contain at least   block letters contrasting in color from the background of the sign. It must contain the exact wording below to carry legal weight: Pursuant to Section 30. 07, Penal Code (trespass by license holder with an openly carried handgun) a person licensed under Subchapter H, Chapter 411, Government Code (handgun licensing law) may not enter this property with a handgun that is carried openly. Other stores may choose to allow also not allow concealed carry. Those businesses must post the following sign, in addition to the 30. 07 sign: Pursuant to Section 30. 06, Penal Code (trespass by holder of license to carry a concealed handgun) a person licensed under Subchapter H, Chapter 411, Government Code (concealed handgun law) may not enter this property with a concealed handgun. More information can be found at the DPS’ FAQ page on handgun licensing. The DPS lists the following exceptions to where LTC holders can openly carry a handgun: Also effective earlier in 2015 was a new law, previously reported by Breitbart Texas’ Lana Shadwick, that allows a “defense to prosecution” for people who accidentally carry a weapon into the secured area of an airport. Under the old law, travelers who are found carrying a handgun and certain other weapons in or into the secured area of an airport, are currently subject to immediate arrest and confiscation of their handgun. The offense is a state felony. The bill makes it a defense to prosecution for possessing or carrying a weapon in or into the secured area of an airport if a CHL holder possessed a handgun at the security screening checkpoint and exited the area immediately upon notification that he or she possessed the handgun, Shadwick reported. A peace officer could not arrest the CHL holder unless the officer advises the individual of the defense available and gives the actor an opportunity to exit the screening checkpoint for the secured area and the actor does not immediately exit. The DPS reports the following: House Bill 554   Effective:  September 1, 2015, Caption: Relating to a defense to prosecution for the offense of possessing or carrying a weapon in or into the secured area of an airport. House Bill 1376   Effective:  September 1, 2015, Caption:  Relating to the application of certain concealed handgun license laws to community supervision and corrections department officers and juvenile probation officers reducing a fee. House Bill 2604    Effective:  September 1, 2015, Caption: Relating to a concealed handgun license application that is submitted by a peace officer or a member of the state military forces. House Bill 2739   Effective:  September 1, 2015, Caption:  Relating to the use of a concealed handgun license as valid proof of personal identification. House Bill 3710   Effective:  September 1, 2015, Caption:  Relating to a voluntary contribution to the fund for veterans’ assistance when applying for a concealed handgun license. House Bill 3747   Effective:  June 16, 2015, Caption:  Relating to the issuance of a concealed handgun license to certain retired judicial officers. Senate Bill 273   Effective: September 1, 2015, Caption: Relating to certain offenses relating to carrying concealed handguns on property owned or leased by a governmental entity providing a civil penalty. The new Campus Carry law will not become effective until August 1, 2016, the DPS reports. Senate Bill 11    Effective: August 1, 2016, Caption:  Relating to the carrying of handguns on the campuses of and certain other locations associated with institutions of higher education providing a criminal penalty.   Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas and is a member of the original Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX.