Some tourists in Boothbay, Maine, are complaining about a large sign by the roadway that declares, “Black Rifles Matter. ”[The sign was erected on private property, where it remains today, and can be seen by drivers as they pass.  According to NECN, the sign was created by Linc Sample, who says he is using his First Amendment rights to express his dedication to his Second Amendment rights. He states that he was ultimately motivated to put up the sign after the local newspaper ran an ad calling for an “assault weapons” ban. “That’s really a trigger for me  —   the assault weapons ban. ” The phrase “Black Rifles Matter” is based on the fact that nearly all “assault weapons” are black rifles. And many of them, firearms like the   are among the most popular weapons in America. In addition to having “Black Rifles Matter” spelled out in bold letters, Sample’s sign says, “Yes we have ’em, No you can’t take ’em. ” A “few” complaints have been noted, and town manager Thomas Woodin says, “Some of these people have cut their vacation short and left early. ” But officials note that the sign is on private property and is Sample’s expression of free speech. Woodin observes, “There isn’t much the town can do about it. ” Maj Toure, a black gun rights activist and founder of “Black Guns Matter,” has taken a similar position regarding all black firearms, whether   rifles or Glock and Smith  Wesson pistols. Speaking to Ebony magazine, Toure states: There’s so much ignorance around the Second Amendment, especially in the ‘hood. The general public thinks if you have a firearm, then you’ve got to be this horrible person. [But] having a firearm and being a responsible gun owner is good citizenship. You can protect against negative portions of the community and law enforcement. Anybody not trying to do the right thing is a tyrant or a terrorist, for lack of a better term. We created something that would address that, as opposed to complaining about it. As for Sample, he has plans to change out the sign on Townsend Avenue in Boothbay from time to time, communicating his message through different phrases. But he has no plans to take the sign down. AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.