Ohio State University reported an active shooter on campus Monday morning and urged students near Watts Hall to “Run Hide Fight. ”[Update, 12:28 p. m. ET: Reports on the November 28 attack on Ohio State University are drifting away from an active shooter scenario, moving toward a car and knife attack.   CBS News reports that the attack on Ohio State may not have been   or at least not simply a firearm attack. They report that sources say “it increasingly looks like at least some people were either hit by a car or stabbed. ” CNBC similarly reports: “Officials said it is not clear whether there had actually been a gun attack. A law enforcement official told NBC some students were attacked with a large knife. ” CNBC quotes a witness describing a scenario in which people exited Watts Hall after a fire alarm was pulled, only to be run over by a car that “started hitting those who evacuated” the building.   …     Update, 11:54 a. m. ET: Shelter in Place has been lifted and classes have been cancelled for the day. UPDATE   : Shelter in Place lifted. Scene is now secure. ALL classes are canceled on Columbus campus for the remainder of the day.  —   OSU Emergency Mngmnt (@OSU_EMFP) November 28, 2016,  UPDATE  : Area around 19th  College Ave. is closed. List of buildings closed and additional information at https:  .   —   OSU Emergency Mngmnt (@OSU_EMFP) November 28, 2016,    …     Update, 11:33 a. m. ET: At least one suspect in the Ohio State active shooter situation has been killed. WSYX 6’s Brooks Jarosz reports that the search for other suspects is “ongoing. ” CBS News reports that at least four of the individuals wounded in the attack have gunshot wounds. There are reports of weapons other than firearms being involved in the attack. In fact, CBS News reports that “someone had run a vehicle into [the chemical engineering building]” and thereafter began “attacking people inside the building with a knife. ”   …     Update, 11:13 a. m. ET: UPDATE: Two people have been brought out in handcuffs after active shooter reported on OSU campus https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   CBS News (@CBSNews) November 28, 2016,  It is still unclear whether there are more suspects at large. Ohio Governor John Kasich has tweeted out his thoughts and prayers: Ohio’s thoughts and prayers go out to the Ohio State community. Be safe, listen to first responders. https:  .   —   John Kasich (@JohnKasich) November 28, 2016,    …     The school tweeted a Buckeye Alert just before 10 a. m. local time Monday: Buckeye Alert: Active Shooter on campus. Run Hide Fight. Watts Hall. 19th and College.  —   OSU Emergency Mngmnt (@OSU_EMFP) November 28, 2016,  WSYX 6 reported Brooks Jarosz tweeted that there are seven confirmed injuries: JUST IN: 7 confirmed shot at Ohio State active shooter situation. #wsyx6 #breaking,  —   Brooks Jarosz (@BrooksWSYX6) November 28, 2016,  CNN reports that sophomore Wyatt Crosher heard the shots. He did not have direct sight of the building in which the attack allegedly took place, but he said he was still able to hear the sounds: “My roommate and I heard about three or four gunshots from across the street, and soon after we heard a bunch of police and ambulances pull up across the street. ” Jarosz reports that trauma surgeons have been requested to be ready for the arrival of the shooting victims: At least six trauma surgeons requested at @OSUWexMed following active shooter situation on #OSU campus. #breaking,  —   Brooks Jarosz (@BrooksWSYX6) November 28, 2016,  Washington Times columnist Madison Gesiotto, who is also a law school student at Ohio State, tweeted that the shooting occurred in an ambush situation after a fire alarm was pulled at Watts Hall. AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and host of “Bullets with AWR Hawkins,” a Breitbart News podcast. He is also the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.