    actress Meryl Streep donned orange makeup and a fat suit Monday to play her latest role  —   that of presumptive GOP presidential nominee Donald Trump. [The Ricki and the Flash star, 66, was joined at the annual Shakespeare in the Park Public Theater Gala event in Central Park. by her Mamma Mia!   and   Christine Baranski, who was dressed as Hillary Clinton.  Spectators posted video of the inspired performance, as a messy     red   Streep and Baranski sang alongside each other. More of Meryl and Christine Baranski doing Trump and HRC pic. twitter.   —   Jacob Bernstein (@BernsteinJacob) June 7, 2016,  Streep can be heard in the video singing, “You’ll let me know, why all the women say no,” as part of her rendition on “Brush Up Your Shakespeare” from Cole Porter’s Broadway hit Kiss Me, Kate. Meryl Streep dressed up like Donald Trump tonight and Christine Baranski loved it. Sometimes the world is perfect. pic. twitter.   —   Jack Moore (@JackPMoore) June 7, 2016,  Traditionally sung by male actors, the classic song is based on “The Taming of the Shrew,” which offers suggestions to men on how to seduce women by reciting lines from Shakespeare. “Brush up your Shakespeare and the women you will wow,” Baranski bellowed as the crowd laughs. “Just declaim a few lines from Othello, and they’ll think you’re a hell of a fella. ” Meryl Streep just added Donald Trump to her resume at the Public Theater Gala pic. twitter.   —   Jacob Bernstein (@BernsteinJacob) June 7, 2016,  The annual event is meant to pay tribute to legendary playwright William Shakespeare. With over forty years experience in film and theater acting, Streep has played British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher and activist Emmeline Pankhurst, as well as the billionaire real estate   politician. Baranski’s rendition of Hillary Clinton came on the same night that the real Democratic White House hopeful picked up enough delegates to become her party’s presumptive presidential nominee. Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson