A member of the notorious   gang, designated as a terrorist organization in El Salvador, crossed into the United States at the southern border with Mexico near Calexico, California on Saturday. [Border Patrol agents in the El Centro Sector were out on patrol when they spotted the illegal entrant. The crossing occurred approximately 25 miles east of the Calexico West Port of Entry, according to U. S. Customs and Border Protection.  Those agents that spotted the man caught up to and arrested him. The agents then transported the illegal entrant back to the Calexico Border Patrol station to be processed. Upon processing the man was identified as    David Ernest Pacheco, a member of the notorious “ ” gang. Pacheco is a citizen of El Salvador. He faces prosecution for being a previously convicted felon that has been removed before and who has again made illegal entry into the United States. As Breitbart News’ Ildefonso Ortiz reported: The Mara Salvatrucha or   is considered to be one of the most dangerous criminal organizations in America. As previously reported by Breitbart Texas,   and their rival Barrio 18 began in the streets of California and ended up spreading throughout Latin America, primarily in El Salvador where the gang is responsible for the raging violence in the area. Most recently El Salvador’s government labeled the two gangs as terrorist organizations. A second man was arrested at the Highway 86 checkpoint on an unrelated case of suspected methamphetamine smuggling. The man was found to be a “Lawfully Admitted Permanent Resident” from Mexico. A canine reacted to the blue Chevrolet Malibu that the man was driving and agents subsequently found $381, 200 worth of the drug contained in 18   bundles. The man, vehicle and drugs were turned over to the Drug Enforcement Administration. Last July, Juan Francisco Lopez Sanchez —  a   convicted felon, and   deportee —  killed a young woman, Kate Steinle, on a San Francisco pier. Photo: file, Follow Michelle Moons on Twitter @MichelleDiana