OAKLAND, Calif.  —   Steve Kerr, the coach of the Golden State Warriors, told his players that they ought to feel pressure. How could they not ahead of Game 7 of the N. B. A. finals on Sunday night at Oracle Arena, with a chance to cement their place as one of the league’s forever teams against a fearsome opponent like the Cleveland Cavaliers? “Of course they’re going to feel pressure,” Kerr said. “Of course there’s going to be some anxiety. But how lucky are we to feel that pressure? You could play on a lottery team your whole career and just make a bunch of money and go watch the playoffs every year. ” Instead, the Warriors and the Cavaliers will put it all out there for the final time this season. As the Cavaliers’ LeBron James has said more than once as the series has unfolded, Game 7 has meant something special and rarely attained. The spotlight can be searing  —   for some people. Not everyone. Not James. “Listen,” James said, “at the end of the day, I go out every single night and give everything I’ve got to the game. The game has always given back to me. So I’m O. K. with whatever. ” James has been an indomitable force in the series. He leads all players in points (181) assists (51) steals (16) and blocked shots (13) and he is tied with his teammate Tristan Thompson for the most rebounds (68). James is shooting 51. 4 percent from the field and 40 percent from   range. He has scored 41 points in each of the last two games, both wins for Cleveland. In the process, James has twice coaxed the Cavaliers away from the ledge of elimination  —   a remarkable feat given the stakes and Golden State’s dominance up to this point. The Warriors went the entire regular season without losing consecutive games, and they have never lost three straight games under Kerr in his two seasons as coach. That is what is required of the Cavaliers now: three straight to close out the finals and claim their first championship in franchise history. No team has ever come back to win the title after trailing in the finals by three games to one. The Cavaliers would be the first. James has already done a lot of fancy stuff in his career  —   he won two championships with the Miami Heat. But this, he said, would be the pinnacle. “I came back for a reason,” James said, “and that is to bring a championship to the city of Cleveland, to northeast Ohio and all of Ohio and all Cavaliers fans in the world. ” It has, to some extent, become a series of attrition. The Warriors lost Andrew Bogut, their starting center, for the remainder of the series when he injured his knee in Game 5. There was more carnage in the Cavaliers’ Game 6 win. The Warriors’ Andre Iguodala tweaked his back in the first half, and the Cavaliers’ Kyrie Irving injured his left foot in the second half. Each player is important to his team’s title hopes  —   Iguodala defends James, and Irving pushes the pace. Both assured reporters that they would be fine for Game 7. “I’m breathing,” said Iguodala, who sat out Saturday’s practice to receive medical treatment. “Everybody’s banged up a little bit. ” James, who is making his seventh appearance in the finals, performed well in his only previous finals Game 7. In that game, on June 20, 2013, he scored a   37 points and shot 12 of 23 from the field as the Heat defeated the San Antonio Spurs,  . “I remember pretty much everything about the game,” James said. The Warriors are no strangers to adversity, either. In the Western Conference finals, they rebounded from a   series deficit against the Oklahoma City Thunder. The Cavaliers have presented another set of challenges. The Warriors’ Stephen Curry, who lost his composure when he fouled out of Game 6, said he dreamed of Game 7s as a child. “I need to play my best game of the year, if not my career, because of what the stakes are,” he said. “That doesn’t mean scoring 50 points, though. That means controlling the tempo of the game. When I need to be aggressive  —   well, I need to be aggressive. But when I need to push the envelope, do it, but do it under control. ” There have been 18 Game 7s in the history of the N. B. A. finals, and the home team has won 15 of them. The last time a visiting team clinched a title in a Game 7 was in 1978, when the Washington Bullets defeated the Seattle SuperSonics,  . The home team has won six straight Game 7s. “The word everyone likes to use in sports is ‘pressure,’” James said. “I don’t really get involved in it. But I guess in layman’s terms, it’s pressure. I think it’s an opportunity to do something special. ”