Unruly voters have elected an opportunistic showman as their presidential nominee. They were aided by infiltrators in the primary who were not even Republicans. [The nominee, Donald Trump, is a reality star billionaire real estate developer who has a history of vacillating political allegiances. He even made campaign donations to the most evil countess of the Democratic Party, Hillary Clinton, who is designed to be her party’s nominee against Mr. Trump.  Into the breach steps Speaker of the House Paul D. Ryan, the highest elected Republican in the land. He declares he is not ready  —   in good conscience  —   to support his own party’s nominee for president because Mr. Trump has not demonstrated he is a good and principled conservative. And, once again, the Washington political punditry begins another wildly premature funeral dirge for Mr. Trump’s campaign, the Republican Party’s hold on power in Washington. Meanwhile, loyal and thoughtful conservative voters who do not care for Mr. Trump’s bombast and harbor justifiable concerns about his devotion to Republican “principles” are despondent. There goes the White House, they say, the Senate, the House and the Supreme Court. And, with socialist Democrats running amok, there goes the republic and the world’s greatest beacon of hope and freedom. Or, perhaps we are seeing something entirely different. Maybe this is a rekindling of the finest dreams envisioned by our founders. In a time of great economic distress with high unemployment and a sluggish economy, a   businessman is pitted for the presidency against an insufferable and strictly partisan hack who has been an integral cog in the broken political system for three decades. The businessman will win. And the party hag will be sent off to a   retirement of bitterness and scorn. On Capitol Hill, Republicans will keep the House and  —   if they don’t screw it up  —   keep the Senate. Yet, with the Supreme Court in the balance, these Republicans in Congress will maintain a skeptical eye down Pennsylvania Avenue at their new leader. They will question his motives and pick apart his proposals. When his proposals wobble too far from the conservatism they are now vowing to protect, lawmakers can reign him in. If he nominates someone to the Supreme Court who is not worthy to replace the late, great Justice Antonin Scalia, they can reject the nominee. And the voters will reward them for it! The democratic republic our founders envisioned will be restored! For too long, both parties have fallen into the deep rut of partisan blindness. On both sides of the aisle, party politics comes before American interests at every turn. Both Democrats and Republicans in Congress have unilaterally surrendered vast amounts of power to the presidency. Congress  —   the first branch of government closest to the will of the people  —   as been neutered. Former President George W. Bush had his Republicans in Congress and President Obama has his Democrats. As a result, Americans have been saddled with a vast expansion of the federal government into every aspect of our personal lives. The debt burden is, literally, unfathomable. Donald Trump may terrify Democrats and horrify Republicans in Washington. He may be a vulgarian to the professional Beltway punditry that has blithely ignored the devolution of the American dream. But, looking down from the clouds painted inside the dome of the U. S. Capitol, the founders are smiling and see the first hope in decades for returning power to the people. Charles Hurt can be reached at charleshurt@live. com. Follow him on Twitter via @charleshurt.