CLEVELAND  —   On a warm June night in Cleveland, 20, 562 pairs of hands gathered to lift a curse. Quicken Loans Arena, home of the Cavaliers, was hosting an official Game 7 watch party. The place was gussied up in    banners proclaiming, “ALL IN. ” In fact, most things were all out. The $5 tickets for the 20, 562 indoor seats sold out in less than a minute a like number of admissions for the outdoor plaza were also gobbled up in under a minute. The chosen ones (apologies, LeBron) shuffled past their ticketless brethren in an approximation of the Last Judgment, marching toward not the Pearly Gates but the Gateway Plaza security. “Anybody got a ticket to sell?” a tattooed man said. “One ticket?” Inside, your   Ahmad and Nicole, a   couple, took over the Humongotron. “The   scoreboard has four enormous HD video screens that are tilted and uniquely curved to provide optimal viewing angles for all fans” is the way the Q’s website described it, and the Big H, replete with flaming sabers, could barely contain Ahmad’s enthusiasm. “It’s Game 7 of the N. B. A. finals with the Golden State Warriors”  —   we boo  —   “going against YOUR Cleveland Cavaliers!” High in the rafters  —   the uppermost stretches of the Q are dubbed Loudville  —   Nicole cornered Mark, a young fan. She asked what his plans were after the Cavs won. Mark’s eyes went saucers, as if the thought had never really occurred to him. Then the Humongotron filled with pregame   live from Oakland. There was LeBron James’s face, broad and as impassive as the Sphinx. And the building lost its collective mind. Is this heaven? No, it’s Cleveland. “Do not engage in any fighting or throwing of objects,” the   announcer reminded us. “Violators will be ejected and subject to arrest. ” It’s not easy being CLE. In most cities, sports failure is an occasional painful lesson in Cleveland, it has been the entire point. Futility here turned into an annual ritual: The (insert franchise name here) would start the season with high hopes, lose much of their steam via poor   play and horrible   miscalculations (see Johnny Football) and reload with a new crop of talent, only to reprise the outcome. The Cavs had seemingly followed the script, left for dead after the fourth game of the championship series as assorted talking heads proclaimed that no team had ever come back from a   series deficit. Believeland would have none of it. “Cavs all the way,” Laurie Coduto said. Her husband, Mike, agreed. “You know the Cavs are going to win,” he said. The Codutos were here Sunday night because “we want to be part of history,” Laurie said. The music kicked in. Billy Idol was singing “Rebel Yell. ” Or it could have been “White Wedding. ” Heck, it could have been Pachelbel’s “Toccata in E Minor. ” No matter. It was the moment, and the moment is what set the wheelchairs in the Subway Fan Zone to dancing. A trio of young men passed, laden with enough nachos for a week in the North Woods. “Follow me,” one said. “Know where you’re going?” “No. ” You knew by the time of the player introductions that something was different. As the lights dimmed, and just before the Humongotron belched fire, a fan waved a sign: “LeBron the Real M. V. P. ” Maybe. The Warriors closed the half strong. Draymond Green ignited an   run in the final four minutes of the second quarter, and Golden State took a   lead into the locker room. No matter. “The Cavs are going to win,” said a woman who gave her name as Ophelia. Calm in the storm, she was here “to be part of the excitement. ” The elite craziness took place in deeper waters. The Cleveland Indians’ afternoon game against the Chicago White Sox provided the undercard, and Tribe fans wandered over from the ballpark to join the throng outside. The vibe was Spring Break North the dress  —   what there was of it  —   was casual, the conversation livelier. “Did you get him anything for Father’s Day?” a young woman asked her friend. “Who says he’s the father?” her friend answered, not looking up from her drink. Nearby, another young woman lectured a boy. “Don’t play for a team,” she scolded. “Be a lawyer and own the team. ” She added, “I dated a lawyer, and I should know. ” The boy was about 2 years old and tiny, riding on his father’s shoulders. Dad and son quickly moved away. With 1 minute 50 seconds left in the game, James uncoiled a   block of an Andre Iguodala shot. Kyrie Irving hit a   shot over Stephen Curry. Curry answered with a wildly errant   attempt on the other end before James was fouled hard. He knocked down the second of two free throws for a   Cleveland lead with 10 seconds on the clock. Chants of “M. V. P. !” rocked the Q. Please, no more about the Curse. Suffice to say, the Cavs put up a season that any thinking sports fan ought to have been proud to witness. Cleveland has beaten flawed teams, like Atlanta, and it has beaten young rosters just coming into their own, like Detroit and Toronto. The Cavs are smarter than any team that’s tougher, and there aren’t many of those. It could be argued, while listening to Wiz Khalifa rattle your molars, that sport has sucked the charm out of the contemporary game and replaced it with volume. Marketing is a simple villain. Hunger for karmic justice, and they will offer you a discounted hot dog. Shiver in the cold rain of a   of disappointment, and they will hand you a FirstEnergy  . That is the way the game is played now. It is easy to overlook the obvious even when it is flashed onto a video screen the size of an apartment building. The real power lies inside, coiled and remarkable. It always has. It is what causes the granny during the Irving   to chair dance to mad beats. It is what causes the beanpole wearing a Matthew Dellavedova jersey as a belly shirt to lean to his left to misguide a Curry free throw, even if the hoop in question is 2, 200 miles away. And yes, it is what turns every “Brian on a car phone” into James Naismith this time of year. No maybes here. We’re going to win. Not “they” or “I. ” In the end, the Cavs played like a team with a chip on its shoulder, winning for a city full of people with a chip on theirs. Which brings us back to Mark, pondering a course of action for the final buzzer. “I’m going to go running in the street,” he said. It was a beautiful summer night, a gentle breeze finally coming over a Great Lake, past the glass pyramid of the Rock ’n’ Roll Hall of Fame. The Cavs were champs. A spell had been lifted without crystals, roosters or the intercession of Madame Zora. And there was nothing left to do except join 20, 562 of your closest friends and run in the street.