Actress Kirstie Alley lambasted President Obama on Friday for golfing during his annual vacation in Martha’s Vineyard this week, while thousands of displaced Louisiana residents continued to languish from the devastation wrought by deadly flooding that has rocked the state. [Alley linked to a video of Obama criticizing President Bush in 2008 for looking at “people from the window of an airplane,” after Hurricane Katrina.  “Or on a golf course in Martha’s Vineyard instead of in Louisiana?” the former Cheers star tweeted. Or on a golf course in Martha’s Vineyard instead of in Louisiana? pic. twitter.   —   Kirstie Alley (@kirstiealley) August 19, 2016,  Moments later, Alley said her initial tweet, critical of Obama, had started a “firestorm. ” “Whoa that set off a firestorm! There are many ways to skin a cat if the desire is there. Many roads lead to Rome,” the actress tweeted. Whoa that set off a firestorm! There are many ways to skin a cat if the desire is there. Many roads lead to Rome,  —   Kirstie Alley (@kirstiealley) August 19, 2016,  After another social media user told Alley that “[Louisiana] Gov. Edwards said on MSNBC, he advised Obama not to go so not to divert resources,” the actress fired back. “Wouldn’t stop me if I was Pres. .I’d slip in the back door . .someway. .or possibly do an on air PLEA. ” Wouldn’t stop me if I was Pres. .I’d slip in the back door . .someway. .or possibly do an on air PLEA https:  .   —   Kirstie Alley (@kirstiealley) August 19, 2016,  The actress continued: “My point is. .Do u think USA wants to C him playing golf while Louisiana is 20 feet under water  people R dying? ,” she wrote. “I thought Bush waited too long also! I was in Katrina on day 5  I’m just a gorgeous actress :)THEY needed HELP! I didn’t need an invitation. ” My point is. .Do u think USA wants to C him playing golf while Louisiana is 20 feet under water  people R dying?  https:  .   —   Kirstie Alley (@kirstiealley) August 19, 2016,  I thought Bush waited too long also! I was in Katrina on day 5  I’m just a gorgeous actress :)THEY needed HELP! I didn’t need an invitation,  —   Kirstie Alley (@kirstiealley) August 19, 2016,  As Breitbart News reported, President Obama spent time during his annual Martha’s Vineyard vacation golfing with Seinfeld   and Curb Your Enthusiasm star Larry David on Thursday. Meanwhile, Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump was in Louisiana on Friday to meet with flood victims and hand out food and supplies. Obama received heavy criticism from Trump as well as from local paper the Baton Rouge Advocate, which penned an editorial calling on President Obama to cut his annual summer vacation short to meet with victims of the flood, which the Red Cross has called the greatest natural disaster in the U. S. since 2012’s Hurricane Sandy. “Sometimes, presidential visits can get in the way of emergency response, doing more harm than good. But we don’t see that as a factor now that flood waters are subsiding, even if at an agonizing pace. It’s past time for the president to pay a personal visit, showing his solidarity with suffering Americans,” the paper’s editorial board wrote. President Obama has since said he will visit Louisiana on Tuesday. His   Martha’s Vineyard vacation was scheduled to conclude on Sunday. Since August 12, some 40, 000 homes in southeastern Louisiana have been damaged or destroyed by widespread flooding. At least 11 people have died and as many as 10, 000 have been displaced, according to the National Weather Service. On August 14, President Obama declared a state of emergency in Louisiana.   Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @JeromeEHudson