Jennifer Lawrence has never met Donald Trump, but the actress did reveal what she planned to say to him if they ever do meet. [The      actress joined fellow actors Johnny Depp and James McAvoy on the Graham Norton Show Friday night, where she revealed that she once attended a concert at which the Republican presidential frontrunner was also present.  “I was at a concert that I heard he was attending, so I had my full security, I was like, ‘Find Donald Trump,’” Lawrence told Norton. “Because I was adamant on finding him and then making a video of me going, ‘Hey Trump, f*ck you! ’” “I wouldn’t rest until he was found,” the actress continued over the audience’s enthusiastic applause. “He knew I was looking for him. ” Meanwhile, Depp told Norton about his experience playing Trump in   comedy website Funny or Die’s Art of the Deal movie in February, and even offered up some    impressions of the GOP candidate. “Adam McKay, who I admire greatly and is one of the funniest humans alive  —   we had a meeting and we were sitting there talking and he said, ‘How would you like to do a feature film in four days? ’” Depp recalled. “I said, ‘I like that idea.’ And then he said, ‘How would you like to play Donald Trump?’ And I loved that idea. I didn’t care if I knew if I was capable or not. I wanted to try. So I did my bit as Donald Trump. ” “You don’t want to be Donald Trump,” Depp quipped.  Both Lawrence and Depp have predicted apocalyptic disaster if the Republican presidential hopeful were to win in November. During a red carpet appearance at the premiere of his latest film Alice Through the Looking Glass earlier this week, Depp said that a President Trump would be America’s “last president. ” “If Donald Trump is elected president of the United States of America, in a kind of historical way it’s exciting,” Depp said, “because we will see the actual last president of the United States. ” Meanwhile, Lawrence has warned of the dangers of a Trump presidency since as far back as October of last year. “If Donald Trump becomes president, that will be the end of the world,” the Hunger Games star said at a promotional press junket, adding: “I genuinely believe that reality television has reached the ultimate place where now things like this might be just for entertainment  …    It’s either that or it’s Hillary’s brilliant idea. ” Watch Depp and Lawrence’s appearance on the Graham Norton Show above.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum