If Donald Trump were elected president and put in his stated policies, the United States would experience a lengthy recession, enormous job losses, much higher interest rates and diminished   growth prospects. At least, that is the conclusion of economists from Moody’s Analytics, a recent analysis highlighted by Hillary Clinton in a speech Tuesday. The Trump campaign has noted, accurately, that the lead author of the study, Mark Zandi, has informally advised the Obama administration and donated to Democratic campaigns. So what should a properly skeptical person think of the new report? Is it an accurate projection of what will happen to the economy if Mr. Trump’s preferred policies become law, or partisan  ? Given that a presidential campaign is a contest of competing forecasts, here’s how to think about the many predictions you’ll hear between now and November. A careful reading of the Moody’s report shows this: Its underlying assumptions about what Mr. Trump would do as president and how the effects of those policies would ripple through the economy are plausible, and squarely within the mainstream consensus view among economic forecasters about how the economy works. But the report also offers a big helping of false precision, giving exact numerical forecasts on effects that have vast amounts of uncertainty. It’s worth being skeptical about Moody’s projection that Trump’s policies would cause a 1. 5 percent contraction in gross domestic product in 2019. After all, forecasters aren’t even sure what G. D. P. growth will turn out to be in the second quarter of 2016, which ends in nine days. To forecast growth three years from now under an unknowable set of policies is more an intellectual exercise than anything exact. It’s not as useful to look at numerical projections that are almost certain to be wrong. Instead, let’s examine the analytical judgments underlying those numbers  —   and what they say about the direction of the economy in a Trump presidency: Tax cuts and larger deficits would stimulate at first, then cause a contraction. Mr. Trump has advocated major tax cuts, including reducing the highest income tax rate to 25 percent from 39. 6 percent and increasing the standard deduction for all filers. On spending, he has said he would maintain the military, Social Security and Medicare, and raise spending on veterans health care. These actions would stimulate the economy at first  —   the Moody’s projection has stronger growth in 2017 in a Trump administration than in a baseline case. But over time they would translate to higher deficits that would push interest rates much higher and crowd out other activity in the economy, given that they forecast the economy will be near its full potential when the next president takes office in January 2017. Moody’s predicts that Trump policies would push   Treasury bond yields to 8. 6 percent in 2018, compared with 1. 6 percent today and 3 percent in their base case  —   leading to a contraction in business investment, housing and consumer spending. The money the government would need to borrow to fund a much larger deficit would squeeze out business investment, housing and consumer spending. Mass deportations would be a negative supply shock. The simple version of this is that if there are fewer workers in the United States because the Trump administration deports millions of undocumented immigrants or makes life unpleasant enough for them that they leave voluntarily, the nations’s economic output would fall. As immigrants leave, the Moody’s researchers write, employers will struggle to fill the vacated jobs. “Many of these positions will go unfilled, because, by the time the Trump administration is underway, the U. S. is expected to be at full employment, meaning there will be no slack labor out of which to hire workers. ” Some businesses that are heavily reliant on immigrant labor would close. To the degree the labor shortage drives up wages, it would be counteracted by Federal Reserve interest rate increases to try to slow the economy and combat inflation. Trade wars would raise prices and reduce exports. The researchers assume a Trump administration would slap a 45 percent tariff on Chinese imports and a 35 percent one on Mexican imports, which in the Moody’s model raises overall consumer prices by 3 percent. Meanwhile, they figure that a retaliatory response from China and Mexico would result in new tariffs and lower American exports to those countries, reducing economic activity. And higher interest rates in the United States and a sense of global uncertainty around a potential trade war would drive up the dollar, making all United States exporters less competitive. These underlying assumptions, while built on a large body of economic research, involve some guesswork and are at least debatable. Conservatives have long argued that lower taxes on the wealthy will generate more investment and economic activity, which would offset some of the increased deficits evident in the Moody’s model. Immigration skeptics might argue that an exit of undocumented immigrants would drive up wages and would pull more   workers into the labor force who are currently out of it. Perhaps Mr. Trump’s plans for tough negotiation with China and Mexico really would yield new, more favorable arrangements that don’t create import inflation or a trade war that reduces exports. But while the predictions of a recession and slower   growth got all the attention in the new report, understanding why these particular economic forecasters see these effects is more useful. And there’s a lesson there in making sense of any forecast or analysis of a candidate’s policies: Focus less on the conclusion, and more on how the researcher got there.