I can now see where Hillary gets it from. Her assault on me and the politics of Brexit after my appearance alongside Donald Trump in Jackson, Mississippi shows that the Democratic establishment just can’t face the facts. [After President Obama’s condescending approach to the UK electorate during our referendum, in which he told us that Brexit Britain “would be at the back of the queue” for any trade deal, he now appears to be in denial.  At the G20 summit in China, President Obama now tells us that we got it wrong and that we are behind the rest of the European Union in terms of trade priorities. What a way to treat your oldest and closest ally. I suspect the British public will now view him as an object of contempt. Given that Trump was clear about Brexit both during and after the campaign, I can now see this issue being a real political football between now and polling day on November 8th. Either you support the existing global elite or you want real change and believe in nation state democracy. Perhaps Obama and Clinton have done us all a favour.  MRS MAY BLINKS, Although I never wanted Theresa May to be our Prime Minister, I had been prepared to give her the benefit of the doubt. After all, she did say “Brexit means Brexit”.  But in the wake of the G20 and the continued bullying of the USA and Japan, something seems to have slipped.  The EU’s single market, so beloved by the multinationals and career political class, is now being hailed as our commercial salvation. But to be a part of it means the acceptance of free movement of people. The referendum was clear: the British people voted to leave the single market and to take back control of our borders.  Yesterday Mrs. May said that we voted for “some” control of immigration. She has blinked. The pressures from the   market camp appear to be working. The battle lines of British politics for the next couple of years are now drawn. The currently popular Prime Minister may well discover just how strongly the 17. 4 million Leave voters feel. 