COLUMBUS, Ohio  —   Linda Mulligan set off from her home around lunchtime, pushing a grocery cart, with her grandson Marcine at her side. It was a quiet day, the Sunday after Thanksgiving, 2014. The end of a holiday weekend, it was a fruitful day to scrap for cans. They came upon an alley lined with trash receptacles stuffed full. Mulligan had mapped out a specific route that would take her past about 20 Dumpsters and 45 smaller bins. A few blocks away was the drag of shops and bars that represented the eastern edge of the Ohio State campus, on North High Street. For the last few days, a search team had been combing the area, knocking on doors and handing out fliers. Kosta Karageorge, an Ohio State wrestler and football player, had gone missing. Mulligan stopped at each of the Dumpsters, kicking them to make sure no animals were inside, before she got her footing, climbed in and sifted through the mess. Marcine, 8, mostly watched. They looped around to another alley and then a third, wedged between Courtland Avenue and Indianola Avenue. Karageorge had last been seen at his apartment at the end of the lane. At the Ohio   football game the day before, the administration had shown his picture on the scoreboard, hoping for leads. The only clue about his whereabouts had been a few text messages Karageorge had sent his mother the night he went missing. “im sorry i hope im not an embarrasment. ” “my heads been so [expletive] latly from a these concussioms i really am sorry. ” In the alley, Marcine wandered ahead of Mulligan and checked a receptacle. The green Dumpster, coated in graffiti, did not typically yield anything of value. Mulligan usually skipped it. Marcine lifted the lid, got on his tiptoes and peeked inside. He shut it immediately and ran to his grandmother with tears in his eyes. “Grandma,” he shouted, “there’s a body!” Mulligan peered inside. Next to three clear trash bags and a flattened cardboard box, a large man lay on his side, wearing all black, the hood of a sweatshirt pulled over his head. Kosta Karageorge, age 22. A gun rested next to his right hand, and blood dripping from his mouth had dried on his chin. Kostadinos Karageorge was born a hefty 10 pounds 13. 4 ounces, the second child and only son of George and Susan Karageorge. From early on, the Karageorges found their son to be a bundle of energy, physical and always moving. George and his brother, Jim, had grown up hooked on football and wrestling, the sport of their Greek ancestors. Jim cracked three helmets in high school, wrestled at Ohio University and withstood so many injuries that the trainer essentially had to beg him to quit. Once, George was knocked out while covering a punt and woke up in a hospital, disoriented. Someone had to pull off his leg hair to rouse him. He resumed playing two weeks later. Together, George and Jim Karageorge started young Kosta on the same path they took: contact sports at age 10,   at 12, weight lifting at 14. They taught him football and coached him through wrestling, always looking over his shoulder, giving advice. Family functions often ended with spontaneous wrestling matches in the living room, Kosta Karageorge trying to pin his uncle. In eighth grade, after Karageorge failed to qualify for the state wrestling tournament, he became motivated to lift and wrestle more and more. He wrote his weight class on his hand, between his thumb and index finger, right where he would grip the barbell. Around the same time, the family noticed Karageorge was developing small bald spots. He was so   that he kept his hair buzzed short to hide them. A doctor diagnosed   alopecia, attributed to all the   pressure he was experiencing. That pressure only intensified in high school, once Karageorge hit his growth spurt, showed big potential and started wrestling for Thomas Worthington High. He exercised   with his longtime wrestling coach, Jeremiah Webber, following   lifting sessions with hourlong runs, stopping only to vomit. After a knee operation, Karageorge showed up in the weight room in a wheelchair. “I can lift my arms, can’t I?” he told Webber. A growing force in football and wrestling, Karageorge obsessed over getting bigger. He snacked on grilled chicken during class for protein. He ate so much at lunch that he kept a trash can next to his table in case his gag reflex kicked in. Over four years of high school, he gained about 100 pounds, transforming himself from a short and stocky youth into a tall,   athlete, a legitimate heavyweight. For at least a few months, Karageorge and a friend, Mitch Crocker, tried taking prohormones, a testosterone booster they bought hoping it would help them achieve faster muscle growth. But, Crocker said, the substance made them “just angry at everything. ” Karageorge and his friends took out their aggression by starting a fight club, modeling it after the one in the 1999 movie. They gathered in backyards and had two people brawl with their bare knuckles until someone quit or was knocked out. Karageorge would not stop until his opponent squealed. “He could never find anyone big enough to fight him,” Crocker said. “He would always want to fight. He would take on two guys at once, and no one even wanted to do that because he was so big and strong and just mean. ” Karageorge eventually quit football to focus on wrestling. He dreamed of winning a state title and competing in the Olympics. One summer he trained in Russia with a renowned coach, wrestling against men. His senior year, Karageorge drew interest from two premier programs, Iowa and Oklahoma. Entering the state tournament, he was undefeated,  . “The matches were ridiculous,” Webber recalled. “He had at least 10 kids forfeit, not even willing to wrestle him because he was such a monster. He had to treat these other wrestlers like children. It was like watching a bear play with children. ” Karageorge lost twice in the state tournament. After the first loss, he said he was quitting and started walking home. After the second loss, he threw his   medal in the garbage. In the weeks prior, he had shown signs of mental instability. He was stressed about the tournament, choosing a college and raising his standardized test score so he could qualify academically to compete at a Division I program. Before one of the final wrestling practices, Webber noticed Karageorge was absent. Webber drove to Karageorge’s house, let himself in the back door and found Karageorge alone in the basement. He was sitting on his weight bench, cleaning two of his guns, a pistol and a rifle, with tears streaming down his face. “I don’t know if I can win the state title,” he said. Alarmed, Webber wanted an explanation. Karageorge said cleaning his guns helped him relax, and Webber persuaded him to return to practice. Webber later pulled Karageorge aside. “What’s going on in your head? Are you O. K.?” “I don’t know,” Karageorge said. “I’m just so nervous. I’m so scared. ” “Were you going to hurt yourself today?” “No. I don’t know. No. ” One of Karageorge’s first concussions  —   at least that his parents knew about  —   he sustained early in high school when he accidentally   his opponent, a fairly common occurrence when wrestlers grappled. “Got his bell rung pretty good,” his father said. Karageorge started his wrestling career at Oklahoma and then transferred to Ohio State, joining the team there without an athletic scholarship. He sustained more blows to the head as he faced opponents his own size. But he learned to hide his concussion symptoms from his parents and his coaches, partly because the stakes were higher and also because he believed it was important to always do what he deemed most manly. That became the general rule by which he lived his life. His senior year in college, he lived in an apartment with five other wrestlers and earned the title “alpha male of the house. ” He challenged his roommates to outlift him, to outeat him, to beat him in the video game Call of Duty. He had a weight bench installed on the porch and made his roommates lift in their downtime. He surprised them with wrestling moves, breaking furniture in the living room. Everything was a competition, so he kept a running score of everyone’s Man Points, awarding or deducting them as he saw fit. On the wall of his room, Karageorge hung a poster of Arnold Schwarzenegger, his idol. He also kept at least one of his guns, a .  pistol, safely tucked away in a case. He had become something of a gun connoisseur. Following his father’s and his uncle’s lead, he took his first gun safety course at 11 and went on his first hunting trip as a young teenager. He brought his friends skeet shooting and to the gun range for fun. He attended gun shows, built his gun collection and bought and sold guns on Craigslist. “He was very much into the machinery  —   the power behind them,” his sister, Sophia, said. Karageorge felt similarly about trucks and motorcycles. Around campus, he was instantly recognizable, riding his chopper, his hair long, wearing a leather jacket adorned with the American flag. And those tattoos. On his back he had Atlas holding up the globe because, he said, he had the weight of the world on his shoulders. He had an image of Zeus, and of Hades next to his   dog, Cerberus. Down the back of one arm, he had “Pain is temporary. ” On the other: “Pride is forever. ” On the inside of his lower lip he tattooed the word “Brutal. ” “If you didn’t know him, he looked scary,” said Bo Jordan, a roommate. “In my mind he was the manliest guy I knew, the toughest guy I knew. ” Karageorge joined the Ohio State football team as a   his senior year, almost as if he wanted to prove he could. At 6 feet 6 and 285 pounds, he had the requisite size. Those close to him also knew he felt ashamed that, as a senior, he was merely a backup on the wrestling team. After graduation, he planned to go into business with his uncle move to Athens, Ohio, into a house next to his sister and transition into a quieter life. He seemed to view playing football as perhaps his last chance to achieve the athletic glory he craved. But Karageorge had not played football in more than four years. On the defensive line, one of the deepest position groups on a team that eventually won the national championship, he was lost in the shuffle. He did not play a single snap all season. On the last night of Karageorge’s life, he went to a party with his girlfriend and a football teammate, Craig Fada. It was the Tuesday before the Michigan game, the night of the Mirror Lake Jump, an Ohio State tradition. Thousands of students would be leaping into the lake at midnight. Many of them would keep warm by drinking beforehand. Karageorge seemed upbeat. He kept talking about the game. First thing that morning, he had called Webber, his wrestling coach, wondering aloud whether he might finally play that weekend on Senior Day. “Maybe I’ll get a couple of snaps,” he had said brightly. Midway through the party, Karageorge and his girlfriend got into a heated argument. She locked herself in a bathroom. When she emerged, she said she was leaving and marched out the door. Karageorge, Fada and her friends trailed behind. The yelling continued outside. Suddenly, Karageorge’s girlfriend struck him in the head and left. “Man,” Karageorge said, turning to Fada, “she just hit me in the face really hard. ” “He shot himself here,” Karageorge’s father said, holding his right hand in the shape of a gun and pointing his finger at his forehead, between the eyes. “Was he leaning his head against the gun in the Dumpster because his headaches were so bad? You don’t know. ” After the coroner ruled Karageorge’s death a suicide and an Ohio State doctor examined his brain, the family had it shipped to a brain bank in Bedford, Mass. The brain bank  —   operated in partnership with Boston University, the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Concussion Legacy Foundation  —   had handled the brains of dozens of former football players. The Karageorges told the researchers that their son had sustained about 15 concussions. But they were not certain. He had rarely shared details of his injuries. He sustained his last known concussion during football practice about two months before he died. It kept him out for about three weeks, his parents said. Ohio State doctors handled his treatment. Dr. Andrew Thomas, the chief medical officer for the Ohio State Wexner Medical Center, declined to discuss Karageorge’s care specifically, saying that his family had not given proper authorization. But Thomas expressed confidence in Ohio State’s team of medical providers. He said they were required to follow a detailed procedure in evaluating a concussed athlete before allowing the athlete to return to action. “It’s really in the hands of the trainers and doctors to make that decision,” Thomas said in a telephone interview. After Karageorge died, Michael Bennett, a friend on the football team, told reporters he thought that Karageorge did not report more potential concussions because he wanted to keep practicing. At one point that fall, Karageorge had called Webber, apologizing for not being in touch. He explained that he had not been able to look at his phone’s bright screen because it gave him a headache and made him dizzy. He had to ask his girlfriend to dial the phone for him. Karageorge told Webber about the headaches, the vomiting, the symptoms that scared him. Once, while shopping with his girlfriend, he had broken down crying for no apparent reason. Around the house, he stopped playing video games as often as he had and spent more time in his room. His roommates said he seemed moody, fighting over small things like the cable bill. He told friends that he felt as if someone were following him. He told others about a buzzing noise in his head. He often stopped conversations midsentence, having lost his train of thought. “We raised our son to be a strong man, and maybe that was his downfall,” George Karageorge said. “He wasn’t complaining and crying. My wife coddled him, but I was more: ‘One of these days you’re going to be depended upon to step forward. ’” Rubbing his forehead, George said, “There’s a ton of guilt there. ” After the concussion in football practice, Kosta Karageorge seemed to understand the gravity of the situation. He asked his mother for a ride to the doctor because he knew he was not supposed to drive. She took him every day for a few weeks, she said. “They wanted him to come back sooner than he was ready,” Susan Karageorge said, referring to the football team, “and I remember telling him, ‘Do not go back. ’” Her voice trailed off, and she started crying. Mascara ran down her face. “I should’ve just told him not to play,” she said. “I should’ve just said, ‘You’re going to our doctor.’ I should’ve told him not to play. But I just told him, ‘Don’t play until you’re ready you’ll know when you’re ready.’ That’s what I told him. ‘No, mom, I’m fine.’ He could convince you of anything, you know? And hindsight’s   right? You go back, and you look at that, and that’s why this is so hard for us. What was there that we missed? I thought we were good parents. ” After his girlfriend stormed off, Karageorge, Fada and a few other friends sat on a hill overlooking Mirror Lake, watching their classmates jump in. Fada tried talking about the Michigan game, but Karageorge was clearly preoccupied. He returned to the apartment and found Jordan, one of his roommates, sitting on the couch. Karageorge proposed they go find his girlfriend. Karageorge hopped into the passenger seat of Jordan’s Pontiac Grand Am, his head brushing against the ceiling. He had shaved his hair again to hide five bald patches. He had confided in another friend that those spots were where his head throbbed. About a year later, the Karageorges received a report from Ann McKee, the neuropathologist who posthumously examined his brain. She said there were traces of past microhemorrhaging in Karageorge’s prefrontal cortex. Damage in that area, McKee explained, usually leads to cognitive issues involving “impulsivity,   poor judgment and maybe even suicidal ideation. ” She pointed out, though, that it was impossible to definitively link his suicide to any brain trauma he had sustained in sports. McKee also found a single focus of Tau  —   the protein associated with chronic traumatic encephalopathy, the degenerative brain disease found in dozens of former football players. She diagnosed Stage 1 C. T. E. on her scale of 1 to 4. The Karageorges interpreted the report as an explanation for their son’s erratic behavior. Several   players who had committed suicide were found to have had C. T. E. In those cases, though, the disease had usually progressed to more advanced stages. In the car, Kosta Karageorge directed Jordan to a house where he thought his girlfriend was. Karageorge paced across the porch, calling and texting her, but was unable to persuade her to come outside. As they drove back, Karageorge sounded defeated. That was it, he said his relationship was probably over. Jordan tried consoling him, but it did not seem to help. At home, they said good night, and Jordan retired to his room and went to sleep. In the living room, Karageorge retold the story to Mark Martin, another roommate. Martin tried comforting Karageorge, too, but Martin had never seen him like this. Karageorge was not acting angry or upset or aggressive. He sounded depressed. Karageorge excused himself, went to his room and emerged wearing black pants and a black hoodie, his hands stuffed in its pouch. He said he was going to see his girlfriend. Later, the police matched the pistol that Karageorge had with him in the Dumpster to the one he had kept in the case in his room. “I’ll see you, Mark,” Karageorge said, walking out the door. That was the last time anyone saw Karageorge alive. He had been texting his girlfriend all night, and around the time he left the apartment, he sent her a series of emotional messages. “i nvr felt this dark. ” “bc i got nothing eles” “i am gonna kill myself” “i deserve to die anyways” “all time low” Then Karageorge reached out to those closest to him, opening up about the pain he was experiencing in his head in a way he never had before and saying his goodbyes. “man im breakin my head isnt right,” he texted Webber around 1:25 a. m. Webber was asleep at home. He was still sleeping when Karageorge sent him another message about five minutes later: “love u man. ” Karageorge texted his mother, apologizing if he had been an embarrassment to the family, blaming the “concussioms” for messing with his head. Karageorge messaged Jordan, too, urging him to fulfill his dream and win four national championships, telling him he loved him. The last text that Karageorge received, before his phone went dark, came from his mother, Susan, who had been awakened by his message and had quickly typed a response in bed. “When did you get another concussion? Are you doing okay?”