Political strategist Kellyanne Conway displayed a distinct lack of enthusiasm about Hillary Clinton’s “I am woman, hear me roar!” primary victory speech, as SiriusXM host Stephen K. Bannon described it, during her Breitbart News Daily appearance on Wednesday. [“I feel like a complete victim of the patriarchy, about to be rescued, Steve, absolutely,” Conway deadpanned. “Thank you, Hillary Clinton. If I can just get her $12, 000 Armani jacket from last night and hock it, I can pay for, like, one kid’s tuition next year. I’m really pumped. ”  Looking ahead to the general election, Conway thought Clinton’s campaign themes were obvious, and tedious. “We’ve already heard Hillary Clinton’s pitch to the American people, especially as it is against Donald Trump,” she said. “She’s going to break out the ‘isms’ daily: the racism, the xenophobia, the sexism, the nativism  —   you know, you name it, and she’ll pull it out. ” “Why? Because she feels that’s been successful for her, and really, that’s what the Democratic Party’s adjuncts are comprised of now,” Conway continued. “Listen to her speech last night. Listen to her attacks on Donald Trump. Hillary Clinton was billed as giving a, quote, ‘foreign policy speech’ last week. I challenge anybody to show me that fifty percent of it, thirty percent of it, was foreign policy. It was mostly a screed against Donald Trump. ” She thought it was ironic for a Democrat nominee that Clinton would be “acerbic,” “negative,” and “ . ” “That is not the model of Bill Clinton, or even Barack Obama,” Conway observed. “The ‘boy from Hope,’ the ‘Hope and Change,’ the ‘Yes We Can. ’”  She noted that JFK, and even Jimmy Carter, ran on fundamentally optimistic platforms. Carter was the “  peanut farmer from Plains, Georgia,” while “H. Robot” Clinton has great difficulty sounding inspirational or uplifting. She noted the bitter, negative, combative approach was taken by losing Democrat candidates, such as Al Gore and John Kerry. “She thinks when she yells about pay equity and equal rights for everyone  —   look at her own slogan, ‘Fighting for Us,’ and you have a woman up there saying, ‘fighting for LGBT rights, fighting for pay equity, fighting!’ Nobody wants to see fighting, fighting. Even Bernie Sanders  —   what is his slogan? ‘A Future We Can Believe In.’ So she’s out of bounds even for the sort of   Democratic nominee message,” said Conway. As for Donald Trump, Conway thought he made a “great start” on his general election campaign with his speech on Tuesday night. “I thought it was terrific,” she said. “When he explained what he means by ‘American First,’ it means he’s   worker, he’s   patriotism. And he also  —   look, I think Donald Trump is the only person in modern political history, Jeff Sessions perhaps, to really understand the cultural zeitgeist that underpins the political appetite for someone who says, ‘I hear you.’ Men say ‘I’m getting screwed,’ women say ‘I’m struggling’  —   they’re both saying the same thing, which is that there is an economic challenge in this country. ”  “Some people have never recovered from the   recession, the recession of 2007, 2008,” Conway explained. “They feel left behind from the system. Donald Trump is going to take on Hillary Clinton as the insider beneficiary of a rigged system. ” She particularly liked the line from Trump’s speech where “he said, basically, that the Clinton Global Initiative, the Foundation, is a quote ‘hedge fund’ for Bill Clinton, that he has benefitted, they benefitted tremendously. He named names, he named countries. They benefitted tremendously, basically a hedge fund, a slush fund for them, while Hillary Clinton was Secretary of State. ” “I think Donald Trump’s been reading Clinton Cash,” she added. Despite the media’s heavy focus on Clinton’s speech, her “historic” primary victory, and Trump’s scuffle with the judge presiding over the Trump University lawsuit, Gonzalo Curiel, Conway thought Trump’s criticism of Clinton corruption would resonate with voters. “It plays right into why a majority of Americans say that Hillary Clinton is neither likable, nor trustworthy,” she said. “Her problem is with the truth, and veracity. Her husband’s problem was casual relationships with women, a casual relationship with the truth. ” Conway acknowledged the significance of Clinton becoming the first female nominee from a major party, describing it as a milestone she would like her own daughters to properly appreciate, but “it seems kind of hollow if somebody is to say, ‘I’m the first nominee.’ It’s not like she’s a     struggling single mom who pulled herself up from the bootstraps. ” “Most importantly, she just lost 21 or 22 states to a socialist. Millennial women have rejected her in her own party, and yet, she’s quote, ‘made history as the first female nominee. It seems very hollow,” Conway concluded.   Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00 a. m. to 9:00 a. m. Eastern. LISTEN:  