American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) attorney Chase Strangio took to Twitter to castigate Christians for the shooting massacre by jihadist Omar Mateen at a gay nightclub in Orlando, Florida. [You know what is gross  —   your thoughts and prayers and Islamophobia after you created this   climate.  —   Chase Strangio (@chasestrangio) June 12, 2016,   “You know what is gross  —   your thoughts and prayers and Islamophobia after you created this   climate,” Strangio tweeted. I spend my life fighting Christian homophobia while being loved  supported by my Muslim family. Fuck your take on an entire religion.  —   Chase Strangio (@chasestrangio) June 12, 2016,  Strangio also attacked “the Christian right” for legislation  —   which he termed “  bills”  —   that seeks to protect the conscience rights of individuals and business owners. The Christian Right has introduced 200   bills in the last six months and people blaming Islam for this. No. #PulseNightclub,  —   Chase Strangio (@chasestrangio) June 12, 2016,  Catholic News Agency reports that ACLU member Eunice Rho assailed Republican lawmakers for offering prayers for the victims and wounded after the shooting. Rho said they were promoting the “extreme,   First Amendment Defense Act. ” The ACLU itself released the following statement after the shooting: We stand in solidarity with the LGBT community, which appears to have been the target of this attack. Our thoughts are with those who lost loved ones and with the entire suffering Central Florida community. As we come together to heal from this tragedy, we must also continue to stand against any reaction to this horrific event that is rooted in hatred or bigotry in any form. We remain in solidarity with the Muslim community here in Florida and elsewhere. The Muslim Students Association of North America similarly attempted to boost its alliance with fellow minority LGBT activists by claiming in its statement that the shooting was an “act of homophobia” and a “hate crime” similar to what Muslims experience due to “Islamophobia. ” Other leftwing organizations such as Planned Parenthood and other feminist groups are also attempting to shore up their alliances with Muslims and LGBT groups in the wake of the shooting massacre. We stand in solidarity against acts of terrorism  hatred towards individuals because of who they are or who they love. #OneOrlando,  —   Planned Parenthood (@PPact) June 14, 2016,  Do not erase the fact that there are LGBTQ Muslims. https:  .  #LoveIsLove pic. twitter.   —   BitchMedia (@BitchMedia) June 13, 2016, 