AYRSHIRE, Scotland  —   His campaign is desperately short of cash. He has struggled to hire staff. Influential Republicans are demanding that he demonstrate that he can run a serious general election campaign. But for reasons that emphasize just how unusual a candidate he is, Donald J. Trump was to leave the campaign trail on Thursday to travel to Scotland to promote a golf course his company purchased on the country’s southwestern coast. Normally when presidential contenders travel abroad, they do so to burnish their foreign policy credentials, cramming their schedules with   meetings with foreign dignitaries and opining on the pressing international issues of the day. But, to a large extent, Mr. Trump’s business interests still drive his behavior and his schedule. He has planned two days in Scotland, with no meetings with government or political leaders scheduled. And despite the fact that Mr. Trump was to touch down in Britain the day after its “Brexit” vote on whether to leave the European Union, his itinerary  —   a helicopter landing at his luxury resort, a ceremonial ribbon cutting and family photograph, and a news conference  —   reads like a   junket crossed with a golf vacation. “Traditionally, nominees travel overseas during this period to brush up their foreign policy depth and visit 10 Downing Street and Israel  —   for politics back here,” said Scott W. Reed, senior political strategist for the U. S. Chamber of Commerce. “Everyone knows this is the wrong thing for the nominee to be doing now, and it is amazing this can’t be stopped. ” Mr. Trump will arrive Friday at Trump Turnberry, a luxury golf course and resort dating to the 1900s that he bought in 2014. The property features picturesque views of the Irish Sea and suites costing as much as 800 pounds  —   roughly $1, 200  —   a night. He has told aides that he hopes the trip, which includes a stop in Aberdeen on Saturday, will provide a   reset for his campaign. But some of the aides have said privately that they wished he would cancel it. Mr. Trump’s   as a successful businessman is important to him, and, though he has said publicly that he is relying more on his children to run the Trump Organization, he remains closely tied to it. He also believes that many of his supporters are drawn to his persona of a brash billionaire, born out of his decades in the business world. He does not like to be away from his business operations for long. Save for a little more than a dozen nights during the primaries, he has returned to one of his homes at the end of each day. He usually returns to his New York City apartment, which allows him access to his   office in Trump Tower, where he works and takes part in interviews. And he tends to rely on   businesses while he is campaigning, further bringing together the two worlds in which he operates. Perhaps the starkest example of his business empire’s intruding on his political career came late last month. Mr. Trump delivered scathing criticism of Judge Gonzalo P. Curiel  —   first at a San Diego rally and then in interviews  —   that was less a result of a politically strategic calculation than of Mr. Trump’s concerns about rulings the judge made in a federal lawsuit against his now defunct Trump University. Mr. Trump accused the   judge of being unable to render fair rulings because of his “Mexican heritage. ’’ The political backlash was swift, with many of Mr. Trump’s supporters distancing themselves from him and calling his comments racist. The Scotland trip, too, is potentially fraught. Since clinching the Republican nomination, Mr. Trump has squandered numerous opportunities to unify the Republican Party behind him, or to exhibit the discipline party leaders and donors are eager to see. When Barack Obama headed to Europe as a presidential candidate in 2008, and Mitt Romney, the 2012 Republican nominee, traveled to England, Israel and Poland during his campaign, they sought to demonstrate their global savvy and stature, in meticulously planned visits. (Mr. Romney’s trip, nonetheless, was a   disaster, and many of his aides later said they wished he had stayed home.) “Foreign trips are an inherently risky endeavor,” said Lanhee Chen, a fellow at the Hoover Institution who advised Mr. Romney in 2012. “Ideally, they will boost a candidate’s credibility on and familiarity with the geopolitical issues of the region they visit. But they require a lot of planning and logistical coordination. Seems to me that a foreign trip driven solely by personal financial interests  —   as Trump seems to be planning later this week  —   would be unprecedented. ” Showing up right after the Brexit vote, in the middle of a tumultuous time, is leaving Mr. Trump especially vulnerable to criticism, as well as creating the potential for an international blunder. When asked about the vote in an interview this month with The Hollywood Reporter, Mr. Trump seemed not to be familiar with Britain’s referendum, first answering, “Huh?” and then, “Hmm. ” Finally, after the Brexit vote was explained to him, Mr. Trump answered with his trademark decisiveness: “Oh yeah, I think they should leave,” he said, a sentiment he has since repeated. On Wednesday morning, however, Mr. Trump told Fox Business that his opinion on the issue was not significant because he had not followed it closely. But business has always been inextricably bound with politics for Mr. Trump, dating to his previous flirtations with presidential bids, which served largely to elevate his public profile and business interests. The latest documents submitted to the Federal Election Commission, for instance, show that Mr. Trump paid at least $1. 1 million in May to his business and family members for   expenses. The largest payment, for $423, 000, went to his    Club, for the use of that private Florida resort, but he also reimbursed costs associated with his private airplanes, Trump restaurants, and even Trump Tower, which houses his campaign headquarters. “Why would I use someone else’s properties?” Mr. Trump said through Hope Hicks, a campaign spokeswoman, in response to a question about why he had hosted campaign events at his properties. “Mr. Trump owns some of the finest properties anywhere in the world and he has to host events, news conferences, etc. which might as well be hosted at those properties,” Ms. Hicks added in an email. “They are paid, in accordance with F. E. C. regulations, their approximate fair market value for goods and services. ” Mr. Trump also sometimes reserves the front rows at his news conferences for members of his private clubs, almost as a membership perk. And at a primary election event in March at Trump National Golf Club in Jupiter, Fla. Mr. Trump was flanked by bottles (and cases) of   wine,   water, and a mound of raw steaks, which he tried to pass off as his brand. Even Mr. Trump’s private 757, emblazoned with his name across the side and a tool for his businesses, now occupies a central role in his campaign imagery, rolling up to airport hangars during primary rallies as a symbol of power and success. People in the crowd gawk, pointing to the plane, unprompted, as a reason they believe in Mr. Trump. Yet some Republicans still think Mr. Trump should simply disentangle the personal (and business) from the political. Mr. Chen, for instance, had a suggestion for Mr. Trump’s trip. “If he’s going to Europe anyway,” he asked, “why not take some time to visit with the NATO allies that would be affected by his plan to pull back on the U. S. commitment to the organization?”