A growing body of evidence suggests German police are hobbled at every possibly opportunity by the Federal government from dealing with the criminal migrant problem, with one officer complaining they have even been banned from preventing suspects escaping custody. [In a brief interview with German   Bild, an anonymised member of the   Federal police identified only as 22 year old ‘Bernd’ reveals the extraordinary nature of police work in modern Europe. Deployed to Passau, a small city in   Germany on the Austrian border where thousands of migrants come by train and road every month Bernd revealed “95 percent of refugees are single men”.  The officer told the paper the public do not get an accurate idea of what is really happening in the migrant crime wave, because events are   by police to prevent outrage. He said: “should an asylum seeker cut another’s throat. In the report we would state it was grievous bodily harm rather than attempted murder. It looks better in the statistics”. Bernd said in the past months, he had only once had cause to book a German citizen. The rest of his arrests and complaints were against migrants, who he said regularly “sexually harassed” women around the local railway station, the first stop in Germany after the railway crosses from Austria. Most remarkable in the report of Bernd of conditions on the frontier were the crippling orders he was under duty to follow, even if they made his job near impossible: “If a refugee wants to escape our control, we can’t even detain him. This is dictated from above. To do so would be physical violence”. The officer said Germany needed to clamp down and introduce tighter controls on migrants, as well as deploy more police officers. He said at present at the moment police officers lack the support of politicians, a sore point for the national police union which has been warning for years that significant cuts in manpower was leaving the force unable to protect the nation. The worst is yet to come, warned Bernd who said eventually there would be a “big bang” should the situation not change. This lack of support for police, and then officers being used as scapegoats when situations turned bad is a major theme in German politics at the moment. Breitbart London reported last week on the Cologne chief of police being fired by the leftist home secretary of the state of North   after the migrant rape crisis in the city on new year’s eve. The interior minister said at a press conference called to announce the chief’s early retirement that his departure was necessary to restore public faith in police, yet he failed to mention that on new year’s eve he had personally turned down a request from police for reinforcements to patrol the city, leaving just 143 officers on duty that night. Speakers at a PEGIDA march in the city this weekend called on the interior minister to resign for his part in the scandal.