Welcome to Breitbart News’s daily live updates of the 2016 horse race.[ —    All times eastern. 10:52: In Seattle, Sanders says Democrats should caucus tomorrow to let the billionaire class know they can’t always get what they want. He says he is a stronger candidate than Hillary Clinton in a general election. Sanders blasts Clinton for establishing several Super PACs and calls on Clinton to release the transcripts of her speeches to Wall Street. 10:42: Sanders still packing people into Safeco Field for Friday evening Seattle rally: Beautiful setting for tonight’s @BernieSanders rally at Seattle’s SAFECO field. Big crowd but not near full. pic. twitter.   —   Danny Freeman (@DannyEFreeman) March 26, 2016,  ”We R in Seattle bc our patients deserve better  @BernieSanders   is a human right!” Erin McLeod, RN pic. twitter.   —   NationalNursesUnited (@NationalNurses) March 26, 2016,  10:38: Geraldo: National Enquirer More Often Right than Wrong: On Fox News,  Geraldo Rivera said that he worked with Mike Walker, the National Enquirer’s top gossip columnist, for 11 years. He said the Enquirer has been right on Tiger Woods, John Edwards, and O. J. Simpson and when it comes to stories like the #CruzSexScandal, the “National Enquirer is more often right than they are wrong otherwise there wouldn’t be a National Enquirer. ”   8:02: Enthusiastic crowd awaiting Sanders in Seattle at Safeco Field: Seeing large crowds outside Safeco Field for the Bernie Sanders rally. Expect delays in the area. pic. twitter.   —   seattledot (@seattledot) March 25, 2016,  8:00: Cruz ending day by attending Good Friday service at Green Bay Church: . @TedCruz is set to end his day in Wisconsin with an appearance this hour at a Good Friday service at a church in Green Bay, per campaign.  —   Patrick Svitek (@PatrickSvitek) March 25, 2016,  7:55: Sanders campaign fundraising off of   fundraiser: Sanders campaign targets Clinton’s George Clooney fundraiser in letter https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Variety (@Variety) March 25, 2016,  7:50: Chris Christie reportedly helped Trump with debate prep: A member of Christie’s inner circle confirmed the governor took time from his 30th wedding anniversary vacation in Florida to help Trump with “debate prep” at the real estate mogul’s    resort in Palm Beach on March 9, a day ahead of the last Republican debate in Miami. 7:25: NBC News:  Women in   group vow not to sleep   any man who supports Trump: Donald Trump’s support has only grown in the face of   controversy,   gaffes and unrestrained displays of violence and racism at his rallies. But now a group of women is trying a new tactic to derail the GOP frontrunner  —   to swear off sleeping with or dating any man who supports the GOP frontrunner. The “Vote Trump, Get Dumped” movement invites women opposed to Trump to “Join us by wielding your influence. ” “Until Trump is defeated, we don’t date, sleep with, or canoodle with Trump supporters,” a manifesto on its website reads. 6:53: Huge crowds for Sanders in the Pacific Northwest: Over 11, 500 came out to see @BernieSanders in Portland OR today per the venue. And at least one bird. #BirdieSanders pic. twitter.   —   Danny Freeman (@DannyEFreeman) March 25, 2016,  6:45: Trump in interview with Piers Morgan: Trump asked what he’d say to British Muslims. He urges US and British Muslims to ”stay the course” and to report ”trouble” when they see it.  —   Ali Vitali (@alivitali) March 25, 2016,  Trump says if he doesn’t win he’d have a ”much easier life” but that he’s running to give back.  —   Ali Vitali (@alivitali) March 25, 2016,  6:35: MSNBC highlights national   groups that are training   protesters: National organizations among that spectrum are actively providing training, logistical support and network building to local counterparts and affiliates. Organizers are leaning on their own national networks to connect protest groups to each other and with resources when possible. They’ve offered media training for novices and offered insight and tips on how to record and document their protest actions for wider play in the media. 6:15: Documents show Clinton skipped important cyber briefing in 2011: Clinton skipped special cyber briefing in 2011, documents show  https:  .  #FNPolitics pic. twitter.   —   Fox News Politics (@foxnewspolitics) March 25, 2016,  6:10: Sanders to L. A. Times editorial board: “Older, African American women: I think we found two in the country who voted for us in the South. ” In the South, frankly, we’re getting decimated. No question about it. Older, African American women: I think we found two in the country who voted for us in the South. We’re really getting decimated. But here are the facts, and check ’em out: All over the country among younger people  —   African American younger people, 30 or under, Latino younger people  —   we’re doing much better. Latino younger people, we’re now winning, I believe. So I would attribute this to number one, the popularity of Bill Clinton and Hillary Clinton with, you know, it’s a brand name. They’ve been known by the African American community for 25 years, uh, and they are popular. Number two, he was, Clinton was the governor of Arkansas in the South, right? They have roots in the South. But I think once you get out of the South, you will find we are doing better with the African American community and much better with the Latino community. 5:53: Cruz in Green Bay: A Good Friday fish fry with the Cruz fam in Green Bay, WI pic. twitter.   —   Betsy Klein (@betsy_klein) March 25, 2016,  5:51: Bird lands on Sanders’s podium: Bird lands on podium during @BernieSanders campaign event  —   @abcpolitics https:  .   —   ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) March 25, 2016,  ”That bird is really a dove asking us for world peace!”  @BernieSanders to wild cheers as a bird lands on his podium pic. twitter.   —   Danny Freeman (@DannyEFreeman) March 25, 2016,  5:49: David Dewhurst (Cruz defeated him in the 2012 Texas GOP Senate primary) endorses Cruz: David Dewhurst Endorses Ted Cruz, a Former Foe, for President. @PatrickSvitek reports: https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Texas Tribune (@TexasTribune) March 25, 2016,  5:39: Enquirer denies Trump involvement. Parent company for ’National Enquirer’ refutes Ted Cruz’s claims Trump had a story planted: https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Ryan Parker (@TheRyanParker) March 25, 2016,  5:14: Trump attacks via retweet. ”@11phenomenon: #LyingTed blames @realDonaldTrump for so many things I am starting to think he is having a mental health crisis.”  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 25, 2016,  5:09: The Daily Mail has finally made this the lead story on its website (screen cap above) detailing the involvement of Liz Mair  —   the consultant behind the   Trump ad that kicked off this brouhaha. 4:17: Kasich surrogate goes after Cruz campaign for not following Romney playbook: Cruz camp is disingenuous about division of targeting re: Trump. On multiple levels, Cruz camp has reached out to us (and vice versa)    —   John Weaver (@JWGOP) March 25, 2016,  to ensure Trump is denied 1, 237. They know what we know: only path to nomination for Cruz or us is through open convention. Only action    —   John Weaver (@JWGOP) March 25, 2016,  to date has been unilateral by us re: AZ (which they knew in advance). Even Mitt has urged Cruz to work with us! To no avail. As usual,    —   John Weaver (@JWGOP) March 25, 2016,  they want it both ways, appearance of attempt to work   but no action. To question @JohnKasich motivation is underhanded,    —   John Weaver (@JWGOP) March 25, 2016,  and opposite of what they say in private. Facts are JK best positioned in most states moving forward  in general election. #stopvicitimact,  —   John Weaver (@JWGOP) March 25, 2016,  4:16: Anyone *else* up for another debate? Kasich campaign pushing for GOP debate before Wisconsin primary https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   The Hill (@thehill) March 25, 2016,  3:14: Trump releases personal statement: I have no idea whether or not the cover story about Ted Cruz in this week’s issue of the National Enquirer is true or not, but I had absolutely nothing to do with it, did not know about it, and have not, as yet, read it. Likewise, I have nothing to do with the National Enquirer and unlike Lyin’ Ted Cruz I do not surround myself with political hacks and henchman and then pretend total innocence. Ted Cruz’s problem with the National Enquirer is his and his alone, and while they were right about O. J. Simpson, John Edwards, and many others, I certainly hope they are not right about Lyin’ Ted Cruz. I look forward to spending the week in Wisconsin, winning the Republican nomination and ultimately the Presidency in order to Make America Great Again.  —   Donald J. Trump, 3:04: Full video of Cruz press conference. Pull quote from The Wrap: “He’s a man for whom a term was coined for copulating with a rodent,” Cruz said. “Well let me be clear, Mr. Trump may be a rat but I have no desire to copulate with him. And this garbage does not belong in politics. ” 3:03: Trump campaign: “absolutely no truth” to Cruz accusations. When asked about Ted Cruz’s allegations that Trump planted Nat’l Enquirer story, Trump campaign says ”There is absolutely no truth to that.  —   Ben Jacobs (@Bencjacobs) March 25, 2016,  2:52: Security preparations for RNC convention: Preparing for GOP convention, Cleveland plans to buy barricades, bicycles, batons and 2, 000 sets of riot gear. https:  .   —   NPR (@NPR) March 25, 2016,  2:42: Cruz campaign manager: MISSING #SleazyDonald: Why no events in 4 days none planned for 8. Ever had psychological eval? What is hiding in medical records! Release!  —   Jeff Roe (@jeffroe) March 25, 2016,  2:36: Tom Cotton is okay with a Trump presidency. Pressed on whether he thought Donald Trump could be commander in chief, Cotton responded: “I think he could be the commander in chief. ” He said any Republican candidate was preferable to Hillary Clinton. 2:14: Roger Stone, who is quoted in the Enquirer’s story, tells USA Today he “played no role in the placement of the story. ” Stone, reached via email, told USA TODAY: “Everything I know about these allegations I heard from credible reporters for the MSM,” he wrote in an email. “I played no role in the placement of the story. ” 1:53: Official statement from Cruz on Facebook: I want to be crystal clear: these attacks are garbage. For Donald J. Trump to enlist his friends at the National Enquirer and his political henchmen to do his bidding shows you that there is no low Donald won’t go. These smears are completely false, they’re offensive to Heidi and me, they’re offensive to our daughters, and they’re offensive to everyone Donald continues to personally attack. Donald Trump’s consistently disgraceful behavior is beneath the office we are seeking and we are not going to follow. 1:35: Ted Cruz denies National Enquirer allegations of infidelity  …     says Trump “henchmen” behind story, labels Trump “Sleazy Donald. ” . @tedcruz gives Trump nickname of ”Sleazy Donald” and blames him for a National Enquirer story. Cruz calls Enquirer story false.  —   Jessica Hopper (@jesshop23) March 25, 2016,  . @tedcruz says the National Enquirer story started with @realDonaldTrump and the rumors were spread by his ”henchmen.”  —   Mary Spicuzza (@MSpicuzzaMJS) March 25, 2016,  . @tedcruz says @realDonaldTrump invented a tabloid smear that is completely untrue.  —   Mary Spicuzza (@MSpicuzzaMJS) March 25, 2016,  1:27: Hillary Clinton, moderate voice. Hillary Clinton says moderate voices being drowned out in media battle for ’eyes or ears’ https:  .   —   Capital Journal (@WSJPolitics) March 25, 2016,  1:07:   journalism. Why #DonaldTrump is a ”gateway drug” to white supremacy https:  .   —   Ethan Harfenist (@eharfenist) March 25, 2016,  1:02: Journalism. . @khloekardashian has important ( ) advice for @realDonaldTrump: https:  .   —   TheFrisky (@TheFrisky) March 25, 2016,  12:58: More taunts. Cruz: ”Donald Trump is terrified to engage in a debate right now, he’s hiding out in Trump Tower doing no political events”  tweeting,  —   Alexandra Jaffe (@ajjaffe) March 25, 2016,  12:37: Cruz may beat Trump in delegates won from Louisiana’s primary. 12:23: Journalism: “Here’s What Grade School Teachers Said Their Students Think About the Presidential Candidates” Students on presidential candidates: Cruz is ”spectacular,” Kasich ”robs” and Clinton ”doesn’t work hard.” https:  .   —   Maggie Coughlan (@MaggieCoughlan) March 25, 2016,  12:21: I’m on pins and needles. . @ChelseaClinton speaks out about Donald Trump and Ted Cruz’s wife wars https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   People Magazine (@people) March 25, 2016,  12:11: The   Tinder survey. New: @RockTheVote @Tinder users swiped right on @BernieSanders, @HillaryClinton  @tedcruz https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Mark Wiggins (@MarkW_KVUE) March 25, 2016,  12:10: Salon writer crunches the numbers on toxic masculinity. Sexism among men may be costing HRC as much as 8 points https:  .   —   Elias Isquith (@eliasisquith) March 25, 2016,  12:09: Cruz still wants a    debate. . @TedCruz is asked by an audience member why Trump won’t debate. ”Trump is scared. It ain’t complicated,” Cruz replies.  —   Patrick Svitek (@PatrickSvitek) March 25, 2016,  . @TedCruz: ”Donald has a real problem: He doesn’t know what he’s talking about.”  —   Patrick Svitek (@PatrickSvitek) March 25, 2016,  12:08: What a time to be alive. Donald Trump now has a Make America Great TV app on Roku. pic. twitter.   —   Greg Layson (@GLaysonCBC) March 25, 2016,  12:07: NBC News  —   Trump quietly forming contingency plan for brokered convention: 12:05: Weekly Standar Exec Editor not digging the Kasichmentum. . @FredBarnes: Kasich has no chance of winning the nomination. I think he’d make a great VP pick for Trump or Cruz. pic. twitter.   —   FOX Business (@FoxBusiness) March 25, 2016,  11:56: California poll: PPIC California: Trump 38 Cruz 27 Kasich 14https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Phil Kerpen (@kerpen) March 25, 2016,  11:55: Speaker of the Wisconsin State Assembly endorses Cruz. . @SpeakerVos endorses Ted Cruz, says he’s ”still very disappointed” that his first choice, Marco Rubio, is out. #wipolitics,  —   Theo Keith (@TheoKeith) March 25, 2016,  11:54: Cruz in Oshkosh brings up   feud. . @tedcruz holds a town hall in Wisconsin just 2 weeks before the big primary. Watch live: https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   MSNBC Live   (@TamronMSNBC) March 25, 2016,  . @TedCruz: ”You know, in the last few days, Donald Trump has taken to attacking Heidi.” The crowd boos.  —   Patrick Svitek (@PatrickSvitek) March 25, 2016,  . @TedCruz on Heidi: ”I’ll let Donald Trump speak for himself, but   …     I love her with all of my heart.”  —   Patrick Svitek (@PatrickSvitek) March 25, 2016,  11:41: Rickyyyyyyy. Why Rick Wilson would take Hillary Clinton over Donald Trump https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   The New York Times (@nytimes) March 25, 2016,  11:39: Media’s victim blaming could be taking its toll on Trump campaign: Clinton is clobbering Trump by double digits in five of the six national polls released this week, up from narrow leads she held for most of the campaign. Trump’s slide is being driven by women as the percentage of Americans with an unfavorable opinion of him continues to rise. And pollsters believe the violence at his rallies  —   not to mention his ongoing misogynistic rhetoric  —   may be scaring off Republican and independent female voters. “There’s a possibility that the violence at the rallies has cut into his overall popularity,” said Quinnipiac University Assistant Polling Director Tim Malloy. Malloy’s recent survey found that 64% of voters believe Trump is very or somewhat responsible for the ongoing violence at his rallies. Just 26% of women had a favorable view of him in that survey, with 67% viewing him unfavorably. 11:28: Everything’s a lot more geographically focused with only one state voting in the next two weeks: . @JohnKasich will be campaigning in West Salem, Madison and Milwaukee next week: https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   TODAY’S TMJ4 (@tmj4) March 25, 2016,  11:24: The GOP must win. . @EWErickson says Kasich should get out of the race so the GOP can defeat Trump. https:  .   —   Clare Foran (@ckmarie) March 25, 2016,  11:11: Three new TV ads hit Cruz’s YouTube account. . @TedCruz’s campaign uploads three new ads: https:  .  https:  .  https:  .   —   Patrick Svitek (@PatrickSvitek) March 25, 2016, 