Nancy Reagan has died at the age of 94, according to TMZ. Mrs. Ronald Reagan, as she wished to be known even when her husband died, was the 40th president’s closest confidant and a played a major role in his career and presidency. [When Ronald Reagan died, an ABC News report said that “their love story has always been a part of the presidential story. ”  The New York Times wrote, “Mrs. Reagan was a fierce guardian of her husband’s image, sometimes at the expense of her own, and during Mr. Reagan’s improbable climb from a Hollywood acting career to the governorship of California and ultimately the White House, she was a trusted adviser. ” Reagan biographer Craig Shirley wrote in his book Last Act: The Final Years and Enduring Legacy of Ronald Reagan, “They were best friends and soul mates, and his letters over the years left no doubt as to the depth of their mutual love. ” “Mrs. Reagan was a balm to him and he hated being on the road without her,” Shirley once said in an interview. “His diaries recount on several occasions how much he missed her when she was traveling. She also was better as judging who was there to help Reagan versus helping themselves than he was. They were the consummate team, madly in love with each other and content to be alone with no one else around. ” The world may have never had the man who won the Cold War if it was not for the driving force of Nancy in his life. Ronald Reagan aide Michael Deaver once said that, “Without Nancy, there would have been no Governor Reagan, no President Reagan. ” Ronald and Nancy Reagan met in 1949 when Ronald was the head of the Screen Actors Guild and they married three years later. Their bond was deep and a driving force behind Ronald Reagan’s relentless and successful political career. When Ronald Reagan was diagnosed with Alzheimer’s in 1994, Nancy become his primary caretaker until his death in 2004. Throughout that time she remained a guardian of his legacy. Tributes have poured in from across the country: Today our nation mourns the loss of Nancy Reagan, a true example of integrity and grace. My prayers are with the entire Reagan family.  —   Marco Rubio (@marcorubio) March 6, 2016,  The official statement on Nancy Reagan’s passing https:  .   —   Mark R. Levin (@marklevinshow) March 6, 2016,  Nancy Reagan was an example to us all of graciousness, loyalty  dignity. RIP. https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   John McCain (@SenJohnMcCain) March 6, 2016,  Thank you Nancy Reagan for your service  amazing contributions during an era of bold reforms and political courage. pic. twitter.   —   Rep David Schweikert (@RepDavid) March 6, 2016,  Tonette  I send our prayers to the Reagan family. Nancy Reagan had such a positive impact on so many Americans: https:  .   —   Governor Walker (@GovWalker) March 6, 2016,  Nancy Reagan, RIP. Statement on the Passing of Mrs. #Reaganhttps:  .   —   Craig Shirley (@CraigSBPA) March 6, 2016,  Nancy Reagan will be remembered for her deep passion for this nation and love for her husband, Ronald. The Reagan family is in our prayers.  —   Ted Cruz (@tedcruz) March 6, 2016,  With the passing of Nancy Reagan, God and Ronnie have finally welcomed a choice soul home. https:  .   —   Mitt Romney (@MittRomney) March 6, 2016,  Nancy Reagan, the wife of a truly great President, was an amazing woman. She will be missed!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 6, 2016,  RIP Nancy Reagan and Pat Conroy. Many fond memories with the Gipper  the Great Santini.  —   Jim Webb (@JimWebbUSA) March 6, 2016,  Nancy Reagan inspired us with strength  grace  we can all take comfort that she is with her sweet Ronnie again. pic. twitter.   —   Nikki Haley (@nikkihaley) March 6, 2016,  Nancy Reagan embodied what it means to represent America as First Lady and her dignified and warm demeanor inspired America,  —   Reince Priebus (@Reince) March 6, 2016,  My statement on the passing of Nancy Reagan. pic. twitter.   —   Lindsey Graham (@LindseyGrahamSC) March 6, 2016,  Nancy Reagan, who was admired by the nation, will be sorely missed. Condolences to the entire Reagan family.  —   Senator John Thune (@SenJohnThune) March 6, 2016,  ”Open your eyes to life to see it in the vivid colors that God gave us.”  —   Nancy Reagan, rest in peace pic. twitter.   —   Heritage Foundation (@Heritage) March 6, 2016,  Was honored to work closely   Nancy Reagan on the Reagan Library. pic. twitter.   —   Steve Forbes (@SteveForbesCEO) March 6, 2016,  Nancy Reagan passing, while sad for all Americans, serves as a timely reminder of how toxic our politics have become. We must return.  —   Jon Huntsman (@JonHuntsman) March 6, 2016,  RIP Nancy Reagan. A rock for her husband and a wonderful representative of American grace and style.  —   Hugh Hewitt (@hughhewitt) March 6, 2016,  Rest in peace, Nancy Reagan. She touched the heart of a nation and made the world a better place. pic. twitter.   —   Kevin McCarthy (@GOPLeader) March 6, 2016,   