When Joe Olivier asked what his niece wanted as a high school graduation present this year, she asked for a couple of thousand dollars in gift cards. She got a letter instead. In that was a   list from her doting uncle: Read two books about personal finance that he had sent her, and write a   report on each. Then, take an online accounting course and pass its test. Once those tasks were done, only then would he open a checking account in her name and deposit some money. Last week, I wrote about the value of preparing and passing along the money letter, in which a parent or other relative lays out some   financial wisdom. I also asked readers to send in ones they’d written or read. I found the submissions insightful, hilarious and touching. The letters that arrived contained several illuminating   about money’s relationship to everything from sex to gambling that you may find useful as you try to impart insight to your own loved ones. But like Mr. Olivier, other letter writers also asked something of their recipients: To recognize and own the strong feelings we all have about money. To be patient, careful, fair and generous. To want more but not be greedy. To revel in doing things and care less about having things. Feel free to borrow liberally from the following writers when it comes time to write your own letter: EMOTIONS Mr. Olivier turned to a letter because he worried that a big money talk would go in one ear and out the other. “The problem is that kids these days, you sit them down and start being a raconteur, and their eyes glaze over because their attention spans are that of a gnat,” he said. Mr. Olivier, 55, acknowledged that he did get serious rather quickly when writing to his niece, who will attend the University of Louisiana at Lafayette. “Money and finances typically are wrapped up in a lot of emotions for everyone, and your views on these subjects have been shaped since you were born,” he wrote. Why start there? Because one of the most common conflicts around money in families is scarcity. “Typically there is never enough,” he said in an interview this week. “The kids key in on that. ” And they do so long before they have much technical knowledge of how to manage money responsibly. Schooled in feelings before finance, is it any wonder they sometimes make emotional decisions about how much to borrow for college or what to spend once they get there and get out? Mr. Olivier suggested that wizened   need to make the whole subject much more bloodless, long before writing any letters. “Try to be upfront with your kids about budgets and the financial situation in the family,” he said. SEX When his two sons left home for college, George Bohmfalk gave each of them a letter with some words of advice. Among them, were these: “Along with sex, money seems to get more people into trouble than everything else combined,” he wrote. “And both are great when handled properly. ” So what links these two powerful forces, exactly? “Maybe because, like having sex, money represents success to a whole lot of people,” Mr. Bohmfalk, who is now 68, said in an interview. “And money has become a medium of measuring one’s worth, like sex appeal. ” Roughly two decades later, both of his sons have had no problems that he knows of with sex or money, and they never had to move back home. Mr. Bohmfalk also mentioned some related words to live by that a physician friend passed on to him many years ago: One spouse, one house. “So many of our friends had a beach house or a lake house or an airplane and a divorce or two,” he said. “Suddenly, they were having to work until they dropped. ” Mr. Bohmfalk, a former neurosurgeon who lives in Charlotte, N. C. retired from the practice of medicine on his 50th birthday. RISK One other thing that sex and money have in common is that both tend to involve a certain amount of risk. Not that there is anything wrong with careful, considered financial bets. In most instances, in fact, risk is necessary. “Investing always involves risk,” Greg Berman of Brooklyn wrote a few years ago to his two daughters, now 17 and 13. “It is basically a form of gambling. But it is also the only means of accumulating wealth other than by the sweat of your own labor. ” His family has successfully taken on real estate risk over the years, whether it was his relatives who were developers outside of Washington or the bet he and his wife made on a Manhattan apartment and then a Brooklyn house. They’ve also bet on stocks. But they prefer the index funds that feel less like a spin of a roulette wheel than individual stocks do. Hannah Berman, Mr. Berman’s elder daughter, says he’s fond of telling a story about buying stock in Marvel, the comics company, as a young man. “He immediately lost everything,” she said. ENVY (AND GENDER) Envy is a problem, and Mr. Berman, who is 49 and runs a nonprofit, is clear on that in his letter. But he doesn’t default to the presumption that so many parents of teenagers do: That wanting things is itself somehow bad. “It is O. K. to want more,” he wrote. “Indeed, this impulse can be a spur to action and invention and success. ” Why put it that way? In an interview, he talked about all of the books and movies his daughters take in that make the case that money doesn’t matter. Money is the root of all evil! Marry for love! Chase your dreams! But then much of the rest of the culture sends the exact opposite message. “I was trying to find the sweet spot that acknowledges the wisdom of both of those perspectives,” he said. On a related note, his letter mentions his experience witnessing men aggressively negotiating raises over the years when women often did not. “It is O. K. to ask for a raise,” he wrote. “It is also O. K. to bargain over the price of many products. ” Wanting a bit more prestige or a bigger office has been a positive in many situations he had witnessed. “We want our kids to be ambitious and do stuff,” he told me. ADVENTURES Early in her career, Robin Hubbard, 59, made more money per month than her father ever had. She’s worked at a Fortune 500 company. But a series of health setbacks and the death of her husband have led to her living on  —   and with  —   much less. When she saw last week’s column, she wrote the following to her    daughter: “I encourage you to be a collector of adventures and making other people smile. I have found after the hardship of health problems, I do not want anything but the next great conversation or interesting experience. ” She turned to the letter format for a couple of reasons. When she was younger, no one talked to her much about money or wrote anything down, so she wanted to do better as a mother. Plus, the personal budgeting talks with her daughter, who lives with her in Bethalto, Ill. have not quite hit home yet. A written letter, however, has a chance of lasting. That is something that she values after her health scares over the years. “I will probably frame it, because I want her to know that it is a keepsake,” she said. “And I’m probably not going to be there when she has kids of her own. ”