Emilia Clarke, the actress who plays the princess Daenerys Targaryen in HBO’s hit series Game of Thrones, says that women’s equality in TV should not mean more female nudity, but more male nudity: “Free the penis,” she says. [Clarke was interviewed by Conan O’Brien on TBS: “You would like to see more male nudity on the show?”  “Yes,” Clarke said, adding that she would like to see “equal male nudity and female nudity,” meaning full frontal male nudity as well as the more conventional shots from the rear. “Free the penis,” she said, sending Conan into peals of laughter. Clarke herself appeared nude often in the show’s early episodes, but has since covered up. She told the Daily Mail last year: “I don’t want to have sex thrown in my face and I’ve always thought the suggestion is so much more titillating than the act itself. ” Now, however, she appears to have taken a more libertarian  —  or at least libertine  —   approach: more nudity, not less. She told Glamour magazine last week that she would like to see more male nudity on Game of Thrones, though she added that while she had seen   Jason Momoa (Khal Drogo) nude, his penis was “too fabulous” for viewers: GLAMOUR: You mentioned the nudity on Game of Thrones, and I want to talk about that, specifically the asymmetry between —   EC:My breasts? I think they’re pretty even. GLAMOUR: Ha! I was going to say the asymmetry in female to male nudity. How come, in a show full of women’s breasts, butts, even the occasional vagina, we never saw your husband Khal Drogo’s dong? EC: Oh, I did. I saw his member, but it was covered in a pink fluffy sock. Showing it would make people feel bad. It’s too fabulous. No, I don’t know why. But I’d like to bring your memory back to Mr. Michiel Huisman [Khaleesi’s love interest in seasons four and five] and I copulating for the first time, which began with me saying, “Take off your clothes,” and then you got to see his perfect bottom. She also said that if she were writing Game of Thrones fan fiction, she would “bring back all the pretty boys, get them to take their trousers down, and be like, ‘I’m now the queen of everything! I’d like   of all the boys’ penises, please. ’” Joel B. Pollak is Senior    at Breitbart News. His new   Leadership Secrets of the Kings and Prophets: What the Bible’s Struggles Teach Us About Today, is on sale through Amazon Kindle Direct. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.