Violent   protests and riots broke out in several West Coast cities and on California campuses as news of Donald Trump’s victory in the 2016 presidential election spread. [Students at the University of California Los Angeles rioted in the streets of Westwood, Los Angeles, declaring: “Not my president!”  Ryan Leou and Tanner Walters of the Daily Bruin write: A large student protest erupted on campus after Donald Trump was elected president early Wednesday morning. Hundreds of students marched down Bruin Walk from the Hill and campus before heading to Westwood Village. At least 1, 000 more students joined by the time the crowd reached Westwood Boulevard. Protesters chanted “Fuck Donald Trump,” “Fuck the wall” and “Not my president. ” Students began tearing apart and burning a Donald Trump pinata, and some students tried to flip over a car. The students stopped after noticing a man inside the car. Other students played guitar and held a Mexican flag. Students also blocked traffic on Wilshire Boulevard. The Los Angeles Times reports that there were riots in San Francisco and Oakland, and protests and several other California campuses: Demonstrations were also reported in downtown Los Angeles, at UC Santa Cruz and UC Irvine. A throng marching in Oakland chanted, “Who’s got the power? We got the power. ” Protests in the Bay Area city centered downtown and also saw a march along Highway 24, where a woman was struck by an SUV. She was rushed to the hospital with “major injuries,” California Highway Patrol Sgt. Matt Langford told the San Francisco Chronicle. Small fires in Oakland also prompted the closure of a Bay Area Rapid Transit station. In Seattle’s Capitol Hill neighborhood, according to local news station KIRO 7, about 100 protesters gathered, and the demonstration turned violent: “They set fires, blocked traffic and threw bottles. ” Joel B. Pollak is Senior    at Breitbart News. His new book, See No Evil: 19 Hard Truths the Left Can’t Handle, is available from Regnery through Amazon. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.