It looks like an awful lot of Hillary Clinton supporters didn’t receive her campaign messages about how Americans are “stronger together” and “love trumps hate. ” (In their defense, she ran a lousy campaign and spent most of it hiding from tough questions, so her sloganeering was easy to miss. )[To paraphrase Tom Wolfe, the media tells us fascist violence is always descending on the Right, but somehow it always lands on the Left. Here are the top 10 acts of violence perpetrated against Trump supporters, by shock troops for the political ideology that claims it has a monopoly on tolerance and brotherly love.   By the way, most of these attacks were captured live on video,   confirmed by police reports. In each case, the attackers made it clear their actions were politically motivated. New York City subway thugs make strangulation great again:    Corey Cataldo dared to wear his “Make America Great Again” hat onto a Bronx subway train, and says he was choked and shoved for his action. “He asked me if I’m a Trump supporter. I said ‘yeah’ and thought he’d say ‘me too.’ People have been doing that,” Cataldo said of his first assailant. “But no, this man was not a Trump supporter. The next thing I know, I have hands around my neck, and I’m being choked. ” A second man seemingly stepped in to help, but it turned out he just wanted to take a turn roughing him up, according to Cataldo. He said no one on the train actually did anything to help him. Stronger Together, indeed. Black Lives Matter mob attacks California man for Trump hat: Another beating inspired by MAGA haberdashery allegedly occurred when a mob of Black Lives Matter protesters attacked    Feras Jabro of El Cajon, California. Jabro was hit from behind, then chased down and beaten, all of it captured on video. They also accused him of being a “white supremacist” based on his hat, which Jabro found an unlikely accusation, since as he explained on Reddit, he is the son of two legal immigrants. Chicago man beaten and dragged behind car for supporting Trump:    David Wilcox was beaten by a mob and dragged down the street with his hand stuck in a window, by a crowd screaming “You voted Trump!” and “You gonna pay for that s**t!” They also serenaded him with an obscene rap song about Trump filled with death threats. Wilcox told the Chicago Tribune he did indeed vote for Trump, because “he’s gonna bring back the economy” and “be the one to protect” America, but he said the crowd didn’t know that  —   the attack began after a minor traffic incident. He has also said one of the assailants singled him out by race, saying “that’s one of those white boy Trump supporters. ” He later explained to the ABC News affiliate in Chicago that he didn’t fight back because he feared being sent to jail he is “not a violent person” today, but he was jailed for an altercation involving weapons in the Eighties.  “I’d rather get stabbed and die than go back to prison,” he said. As for his attackers, he vowed to “be at every court date” and “do everything I can to where they get locked up. ” “The right to participate in an election without fear of being beaten by a mob is one of the most fundamental civil rights. Americans should not have to fear political violence because they voted for Donald Trump, and this Justice Department needs to start enforcing the law no matter who the victim is,” said J. Christian Adams of the Public Interest Legal Foundation, which has asked the Justice Department to investigate the attack on Wilcox as a violation of the Voting Rights Act.   students gang up on     : A group of   staging a protest march in Maryland fell upon a fellow student who crossed their path while wearing a Trump hat. The victim didn’t have time to properly savor the irony of the “Love Trumps Hate” signs carried by the demonstrators. “They beat him up pretty bad,” said an eyewitness. Three adult witnesses said they saw multiple students punching and kicking the victim after a “verbal altercation,” and a concerned mother had to step in to end the attack, according to WUSA News. “Unfortunately, the otherwise peaceful protest was marred by a physical altercation between two students who had opposing political viewpoints. This is unacceptable,” said Principal Damon Monteleone, as quoted by USA Today. A suspect in the attack reportedly faces   assault charges.   girl punched and kicked for   social media post: Political violence isn’t just for boys, as San   sophomore Jade Armenio discovered. After she posted a message she intended to be supportive of Trump, another girl who interpreted her post as disparaging to Mexicans allegedly accosted her on campus, accused her of racism, and attacked her, while other students recorded the incident on their cell phones. According to Armenio, her assailant pulled out her earrings and hair, in addition to punching her. Fortunately, another student came to Jade’s defense and shielded her from some of the blows. “You support Trump. You hate Mexicans,” Armenio recalled her attacker saying.  “She’s pretty shaken up, and rightfully so. It makes me sick to my stomach that people would do this to other people. It’s sickening, and no one has the right to touch another person,” said Jade’s father Todd. He told the Mercury News he’s considering pulling his daughter out of the school, because he fears for her safety. The school principal said the assailant was suspended, and law enforcement has become involved in the incident. “War on Women” alert! Donna Ctatlici of Jupiter, Florida was allegedly attacked by a male Clinton supporter while handing out Trump brochures on Election Day. She drove him off by threatening him with pepper spray, but he came back, according to Ctatlici, threw her to the ground, and began punching her. She did indeed use the pepper spray to defend herself. The police did not make any arrests on the scene, but Ctatlici said she intends to press charges. Political violence with a side order of heroin: A    man displaying a   sign and American flag on a traffic island in Connecticut was allegedly assaulted by two men who hopped out of a car, gave him the finger, and then began giving him a blizzard of punches and kicks. This detour into political thuggery turned out to be an   distraction from their more urgent business of transporting 54 bags of heroin and avoiding multiple arrest warrants. They now have   assault charges added to their dockets. Homeless woman defends Trump’s Hollywood Star: A homeless woman decided to stand vigil over Donald Trump’s   star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame, holding a signs that read “Obama Threw Our Black Asses Under the Bus” and “20 Million Illegals and Americans Sleep on the Streets in Tents. Vote Trump. ” She was attacked by a gang of   thugs for her trouble. “You spewed hate and you got hate,” one of the attackers alledgedly lectured her, after she had been knocked to the ground, while her few possessions were destroyed. The woman was eventually identified as Denise Scott, and Trump supporters launched a GoFundMe page on her behalf, according to BizPacReview. She is said to be “safe and healthy and very excited about all the tremendous support,” and is currently working with an outreach program for the homeless. Incidentally, the vandal who went after Trump’s star with a   said he did it because he was convinced Trump would “continue to make women suffer. ” “You know you’re in Massachusetts”:    Cameron Massie was allegedly assaulted outside a Boston bar over his support for Trump, with the assailants, according to Massie, calling him a “racist” who “took a wrong turn. ” “You know you’re in Massachusetts,” Massie recalled his attackers saying, after they followed him out of the bar and began punching him in the head. He posted a photo of his bruised face on Instagram, saying he has a “broken nose and fractured eye socket. ” Also, he said the arm of his jacket was torn off during the scuffle. When “  activists” attack:    Trump supporter James Durkan was assaulted by    singer and “  activist” Shacara McLaurin at an   rally near Trump Tower in New York City, according to reports. “She was yelling ‘Black lives matter’ and he started yelling ‘All lives matter,’ and it went from there,” a source in the police department told the New York Daily News. McLaurin’s lawyer claims Durkan followed her for four blocks and shouted racial epithets at her, declaring him “nothing more than a Trump bully. ” Durkan was allegedly shoved to the ground, and sent to the hospital with a gash in the back of his head. McLaurin was taken into custody and charged with misdemeanor assault and harassment. Prosecutors said she admitted to shoving him, but says he faked falling down and injuring his head.