Donald Trump called the Affordable Care Act  —   also known as Obamacare  —   “one big lie” and criticized his opponent Hillary Clinton, alleging she wants a government run healthcare system. Trump made the statement on Tuesday after news broke that healthcare premiums under Obamacare will increase more than 20 percent in 2017. [“Today’s admission by the Obama Administration that ObamaCare is an unaffordable disaster should come as a surprise to no one, and this only reaffirms the American public’s belief that the entire program was one big lie,” Trump stated in a press release on Tuesday, adding:  Not only are they now willing to admit that health insurance premiums under ObamaCare are going to skyrocket by 25% they still aren’t telling us the truth! Rates are going to go up much higher, maybe as high as 80% or even 100% in some places due to the lack of competition. According to Fox News’s Bret Baier, several key swing states are seeing increases greater than 50 percent: “Here’s the reality  —   Americans were lied to when we were told we could keep our doctor, we were lied to when we were told we could keep our health plan, and we were lied to when we were told this would lower health care costs,” Trump continued, adding: And to make matters worse, the architects of ObamaCare, Jonathan Gruber and Hillary Clinton, KNEW they were telling us lies, because they’re trying to move us toward a   system where the healthy pay for the sick. This, my friends, is the rigged system. With politicians lying, shoving bad deals down our throat, making us take whatever they want us to take while we’re the ones who lose our doctor, who lose our insurance, who see as we did today that our premiums are going to go way up  —   and we’re not going to take it anymore. This is why we have to drain the swamp and repeal and replace ObamaCare immediately, and I’m the only candidate running for President who will do it. It’s a change election, but Crooked Hillary Clinton is never going to change. Never. So the only way we’re going to make her change is by voting her out of Washington forever. Trump’s press release also slams Clinton for allegedly advocating for a government run healthcare system similar to Canada in a paid speech, which was revealed by WikiLeaks.