Jerusalem Post columnist Caroline Glick accuses the   League (ADL) of launching false attacks on Stephen K. Bannon in order to cover up rising antisemitism in the Democratic Party, as exemplified by Rep. Keith Ellison ( ). [Ellison is currently a leading candidate to head the Democratic National Committee. As Glick notes:  Ellison made history in 2006 when he was elected to serve as the first Muslim member of Congress. As the representative of an overwhelmingly Democratic district, once he won the Democratic primary in 2006, he was all but guaranteed that he could serve in Congress for as long as he wishes. As Scott Johnson, a prominent conservative writer who runs the popular Powerlineblog website reported extensively in 2006, Ellison is an  . He also defends cop killers. As Johnson reported, Ellison was a long standing member of the   Nation of Islam. During his 2006 Congressional campaign, the local media gave next to no coverage to this association.   …     As a member of Congress, Ellison has been among the most hostile US lawmakers towards Israel. He has close relations with Muslim Brotherhood related groups like the Council on   Relations and Islamic Society of North America. Both groups were unindicted   in the Holy Land Foundation terror funding trial, implicated in funding Hamas and al Qaida. Glick then rips the ADL’s defamatory campaign against Bannon, describing it as a partisan attack to serve the Democratic Party’s interests: The ADL appears to be trying to give cover to the rising forces of   in the Democratic Party. By falsely accusing Bannon and through him Trump of   the ADL defuses the real problem of Democratic  . And if the ADL doesn’t think there is a problem with Ellison taking over the DNC, but alleges that Republicans hate them, then rank in file Jews will stay put. Read Glick’s whole column here. Joel B. Pollak is Senior    at Breitbart News. His new book, See No Evil: 19 Hard Truths the Left Can’t Handle, is available from Regnery through Amazon. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.