House Speaker Paul Ryan’s primary challenger, Wisconsin businessman Paul Nehlen, responded today to reports that Ryan could emerge as the GOP nominee should the #NeverTrump effort deny Donald Trump from receiving 1, 237 delegates. [Nehlen warns that Ryan is “getting set to betray the entire nation” just as he “betrayed Wisconsin’s 1st District. ”  Pat Caddell has explained how the GOP establishment is using Sen. Ted Cruz as a “cat’ ” to stop Trump, but will then “try to nominate an establishment figure, someone who hasn’t run. ” Politico reports that “one of the nation’s   Republicans” believes there is “a 90 percent chance that delegates turn to Ryan” should Trump be blocked from getting 1, 237 delegates. Politico also notes that Ryan is now “running the same playbook he did to become [House] speaker: saying he doesn’t want it, that it won’t happen. ” “Paul Ryan is completely transparent,” Nehlen writes in a statement. “If he’s going to position himself for president using a game plan lifted from ‘House of Cards,’ he should expect that the rest of us know the plot line. What’s obvious to anyone watching is that he’s not only betrayed Wisconsin’s 1st District, he’s getting set to betray the entire nation. ” Nehlen continues: The big question is, why should anyone trust Paul Ryan? His credibility is through the floor. He’s broken promises to the people of this district. He’s broken promises to his Republican caucus in Washington. He clearly wasn’t telling the truth when he said he didn’t want to be Speaker of the House. He says he’s not interested in being president, but he’s plainly positioning for the job. Nehlen explained that he is a member of —   what Nehlen described as —   the “#NeverRyan” movement: I’m focused like a laser on this district —  on the concerns of the people who live and work here. Paul Ryan hasn’t been focused on his constituents for a very long time. In fact, he’s working in direct opposition to our concerns on manufacturing and trade, on immigration, on budgets and spending, and more. He’s angling for a promotion. But what on earth has he done to merit one? If the GOP gives Ryan the presidential nomination at the national convention, I could never vote for him. Despite the fact that by a nearly    margin, Republican voters believe   “free trade” deals lower wages rather than raise them, Paul Ryan was President Obama’s “partner” in pushing to give Obama executive authority to fast track his   Partnership (TPP) agreement. As Breitbart News has previously reported, in his role as House Speaker, Paul Ryan funded entirely, and even expanded, President Obama’s immigration agenda. Ryan’s   spending bill funded Obama’s unconstitutional executive amnesty, as well as tax credits for illegal aliens, and illegal alien resettlement. Five months after the death of Kate Steinle, Paul Ryan voted to fully fund Sanctuary Cities —   rewarding them with federal grants. Just a few weeks after the San Bernardino terrorist attack carried out by the child of Pakistani migrants and his jihadi bride who came to the country on a   “finance” visa, Ryan pushed to expand Muslim migration and fund visas for nearly 300, 000 (temporary and permanent) Muslim migrants for this year alone. In violation of a promise he had made to the Republican lawmakers in exchange for their support for him as House Speaker, Ryan also funded an expansion of the controversial   visa program for unskilled guest workers. At the time, one GOP aide told Breitbart News that Ryan’s expansion to the   program “is a knife in the heart of the working class, and African Americans,” who depend on the jobs now to be filled by   foreign workers. Although Ryan pushed to fund expanding migration —   against the wishes of more than 9 in 10 GOP voters —   Ryan failed to allocate funds to complete the     border fence that Congress promised the American people nearly a decade ago. While Ryan did not fund this   wall for the American people, Ryan does support border walls for his own family. As Breitbart News has previously reported, Ryan’s Wisconsin mansion is protected by a tall border fence. The Washington Times first broke the news of Ryan’s primary challenge in late March, writing that Nehlen “is the tea   candidate who is challenging House Speaker Paul D. Ryan in the Republican primary, saying he’s ‘had it’ with the speaker betraying conservatives. ” The Washington Times notes that: Mr. Nehlen serves as senior vice president of operations for a leading water filtration and disinfection technologies company, and helped relocated manufacturing jobs from Canada to the U. S. including moving several product lines to Wisconsin  …     A political adviser close to Mr. Nehlen has acknowledged that it won’t be easy to defeat Mr. Ryan, who was the party’s 2012 vice presidential nominee, currently ranks as one of the most powerful Republicans in Washington and has more than $5 million in his campaign war chest. The businessman is prepared to put a substantial amount of his personal fortune into the campaign, according to the adviser. While it’s often an uphill run, there is precedent for a tea party challenger toppling a member of the House Republican leadership. Eric Cantor, while serving as majority leader, lost his seat in a Richmond, Virginia, suburb in a 2014 primary upset to    Dave Brat.