New Jersey Governor Chris Christie (R) has signed legislation that will allow schools and colleges to hire armed, retired police officers to serve as security to protect students and teachers alike. [Christie’s signature comes during the very week in which a Somali refugee drove a car into a group of pedestrians, then chased unarmed students with a knife at Ohio State University.  According to NJ. com, the legislation, S86, allows schools and colleges to hire retired police officers as “special law enforcement officers. ” Christie “conditionally vetoed” S86 two months ago because the first version did not require the retired officers to undergo “specialized training covering security issues that routinely arise in the school setting. ” He explained the veto, saying, “It is vital to ensure that the officer is integrated into the unique setting of a school community and is properly trained to function not only as a safety expert and law enforcer, but also as a liaison to community resources, educators and counselors. ” The necessary changes were made to S86 and the Boston Herald reports that Christie signed it, saying: The safety of our children is of paramount concern, especially in the wake of senseless violent attacks in the very places that students and teachers should feel safest. This legislation creates an affordable option for all New Jersey communities to provide security in their schools with properly trained officers who have decades of experience. It allows existing police officers to keep our streets and neighborhoods safe. Campus carry and other forms of legislation to arm teachers in public schools have gained momentum throughout the country since 20 students and six unarmed staff members were killed at Sandy Hook Elementary School on December 14, 2012. Christie’s signature on S86 is a reflection of this momentum and of the understanding that defenseless students and unarmed teachers are sitting ducks. AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and host of “Bullets with AWR Hawkins,” a Breitbart News podcast. He is also the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.