(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the  .) Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1. The Supreme Court made its most sweeping ruling in decades on abortion rights, striking down parts of a Texas law that imposed strict limits on abortion providers. Opponents of the law, which was passed in 2013, said that it had already caused about half of the state’s abortion clinics to close. The    decision has significant implications for laws in other states where similar restrictions exist they, too, are likely unconstitutional. _____ 2. The court vacated the conviction of Bob McDonnell, the former governor of Virginia, on corruption charges, a unanimous decision that could send Mr. McDonnell back for another round with prosecutors. “There is no doubt that this case is distasteful it may be worse than that,” Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. wrote, emphasizing that the justices were more focused on what they considered an overly broad interpretation of the federal bribery law at hand than “tawdry tales of Ferraris, Rolexes and ball gowns. ” _____ 3. In Britain, the path forward remained uncertain after the vote last week to leave the European Union. Boris Johnson, the former mayor of London who supported “Brexit” and is a contender to succeed Prime Minister David Cameron, promised Britons  in an   essay that their country “is part of Europe, and always will be. ” But the nation remained locked in a political crisis, and leaders of the “Leave” movement, including Mr. Johnson, have already disavowed some of their pledges. _____ 4. The pound, meanwhile, sank to its lowest level against the dollar since 1985, and S. P. downgraded Britain’s credit rating to AA from AAA as the economic fallout from the Brexit vote continued. Global authorities tried to soothe the markets, promising to intercede in the event of an economic disaster. But investors remained skeptical, and British officials tried to assure citizens that they would still have access to the Continent’s market. _____ 5. Volkswagen has agreed to pay nearly $15 billion to settle claims stemming from its diesel emissions cheating scandal, in one what would be one of the largest ever consumer   deals ever in the U. S. The cash compensation offered to each car owner will range from $5, 100 to  $10, 000. The German automaker acknowledged last year that it had installed illegal software in 11 million cars worldwide that made them capable of defeating pollution tests. 6. Hillary Clinton and Senator Elizabeth Warren campaigned together for the first time on Monday in Cincinnati. Their alliance seems unlikely to some, given their distinct approaches to Wall Street. But those differences did not come into play during the Ohio appearance: The two women showed a united face on income inequality and criticism of the presumptive Republican nominee, Donald J. Trump. _____ 7. A police scandal has erupted in Oakland, Calif. with more than a dozen officers coming under investigation for their relationships with an    prostitute who is a daughter of a police dispatcher. The city has long had a reputation for police abuses, but it had seemed to be in the midst of a turnaround under its new mayor, Libby Schaff. She said in a recent interview, “It’s tragic that this scandal has overshadowed the incredible progress that Oakland has made. ” _____ 8. Unfortunately for your briefing editor, spoilers abound in our television critic’s review of the sixth season of HBO’s “Game of Thrones,” which had its finale Sunday night. We can tell you without ruining anything that he found the show to be “faster, simpler and more ” partly because it was the first season to move beyond the plot established by the books. “If this was not the series’s best season, it was its most   entertaining,” he writes. 9. Returning from a visit to Armenia on Sunday night, Pope Francis said that all Christians and the Roman Catholic Church owed the gay community an apology for past mistreatment. Francis’ comments, in response to a question about the recent deadly attack at a gay nightclub in Orlando, Fla. were applauded by leaders of gay Catholic groups, but some said there was more work to be done. “A statement of remorse is only as good as the change in behavior that follows,” said the head of one leading organization. _____ 10. “Now, what we’ve been doing is looking at the data, and we know that police somehow manage to   disarm and not kill white people every day. ” That comment was part of a powerful speech by the actor Jesse Williams of “Grey’s Anatomy” at the BET Awards on Sunday. The show featured a commanding performance from Beyoncé and Kendrick Lamar, and tributes to Prince and Muhammad Ali. But Mr. Williams’s speech, a demand for equal treatment and justice, was the strongest statement of the night. _____ 11. Summer is already in session for many of us, but New York City’s public school students are just now preparing to go on vacation. Tuesday is officially the last day of school, and some students are planning to duck out early. Daily attendance last year at the city’s high schools was 88 percent on the last day, it fell to 74 percent. “I might go to school,” one student told our reporter, a hint that schools may experience a similar drop this year. “I might. ” _____ 12. Students may soon own the streets of New York, but on Sunday afternoon, Greenpoint, Brooklyn, was dominated by the walking dead. The Zombie Crawl, an annual event celebrating “all things undead, bloody and  ” celebrated its 10th year. Participants chanted about their lust for brains, drank beer and speculated about their chances of surviving a zombie apocalypse. “If it ever happened in real life, I think I could personally deal with that,” one said. _____ Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p. m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a. m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a. m. Sundays. Want to look back? Here’s the Weekend Briefing. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes. com.