Hillary Clinton has a new target in her campaign against Donald Trump: Breitbart News. Her goal is not just to use Breitbart as a political foil, but to shut the site down entirely. [Deputy communications director Christina Reynolds sent a fundraising email earlier this week claiming that while other conservative news outlets had a “right to exist,” Breitbart News did not.  The Democratic National Committee  —   recently embroiled in an antisemitism scandal  —   tried to make an issue of our headlines. And on Thursday, Clinton will follow up that message in Reno with a speech against the “” which Breitbart News has occasionally covered. The effort evokes Saul Alinsky  —   who was the subject of Clinton’s thesis at Wellesley  —   at his worst: “Pick the target, freeze it, personalize it, and polarize it. ” By using Breitbart News as a proxy for Donald Trump, and the “ ” as a proxy for Breitbart News, the Clinton campaign hopes to undermine Trump  —   and marginalize its leading critics. Note that they have to lie to their gullible followers to do it. Reynolds claims, falsely, that Breitbart was “all over” the story that Barack Obama was “a secret Muslim born in Kenya. ” (We did bust his literary agent claiming he was born there.) The reason Breitbart is the target is not just because our executive chairman temporarily stepped down from that position to become the new CEO of the Trump campaign. Far more important is the fact that Breitbart editor Peter Schweizer has exposed the Clinton Foundation and Hillary Clinton’s    corruption at the State Department with his bestselling book, Clinton Cash. Clinton’s false accusations of racism are typical  —   and show her desperation. The attacks will not stop with Breitbart News. Hillary Clinton backs changes to the First Amendment to shut up businesses her party has proposed legislation that would let the government decide who is a journalist and who is not. Hillary’s attack on Breitbart News is her latest attack on press freedom  —   an attack we were built to resist. Joel B. Pollak is Senior    at Breitbart News. His new book, See No Evil: 19 Hard Truths the Left Can’t Handle, is available from Regnery through Amazon. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.