A representative for Johnny Depp claims that Amber Heard fabricated allegations of domestic violence in order to win a significant financial settlement in their upcoming divorce. [Heard, 30, appeared in a California court on Friday to file for a restraining order against Depp and submitted photos of her bruised face as evidence. The Rum Diary actress alleged Depp repeatedly verbally and physically assaulted her over the course of their   marriage, leaving her “truly fearing for her life. ”  Heard filed for divorce from the Pirates of the Caribbean star, 52, on Monday. But in statement to the Sun, Laura Wasser, an attorney representing Depp, said that the actress and model fabricated claims of domestic violence in order to gain the upper hand in the couple’s upcoming divorce proceedings. “Amber is attempting to secure a premature financial resolution by alleging abuse,” Wasser told the UK newspaper. “Amber is a successful model and actress who earns her own income and is capable of supporting herself. ” “Amber’s anger certainly cannot drive this dissolution proceeding,” the attorney added. In court Friday, Heard alleged that an altercation with Depp at the couple’s apartment turned violent last Saturday night, when Depp allegedly wound up his arm “like a baseball pitcher” and hurled an iPhone at the actress’ face, striking her in the cheek and eye. Heard further claimed that Depp used a large wine bottle to shatter various objects around the apartment. However, police arriving at the couple’s apartment after the incident told TMZ that they saw no evidence of injuries to Heard’s face consistent with the abuse she claims Depp inflicted on her. Police also say that Heard never told them Depp had struck her, just that they had had an argument. The actress reportedly declined to file a police report, and the cops left a business card with a number in case she changed her mind. Sources connected to Depp also pointed to a   Instagram photo that showed Heard out with friends on Sunday, just a few hours after the alleged attack, in which she appears smiling and with no visible bruises on her face. A judge on Friday rejected Heard’s request for $50, 000 per month in spousal support, and also refused to order Depp into mandatory anger management. Heard is reportedly staying in the couple’s family home in Los Angeles. Depp is currently overseas for concerts with his band the Hollywood Vampires, and to promote his latest film, Alice Through the Looking Glass.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum