Conservative radio host Rush Limbaugh said the GOP frontrunner will own the entire GOP primary debate hosted by Fox News on Thursday night, even without being there. He added that he was “stunned” watching Fox News last night and that the network is acting as if it was “jilted at the altar. ”  “Donald Trump knows that by not showing up, he’s owning the entire event,” Limbaugh said of the GOP frontrunner refusing to participate in the Fox News debate because Megyn Kelly is a moderator  —   someone who Trump doesn’t think was fair to him in a past debate. Some guy not even present will end up owning the entire event, and the proof of that is Fox News last night. I have to tell you, folks, this is where this gets tough for me. I was stunned watching Fox News last night. Fox News was acting like they had been jilted at the altar. If it had been me  —   and this is easy to say  —   if it had been me and Donald Trump makes a big   about not showing up for the debate, report the story and move on. Talk about Ted Cruz. Go talk about the other candidates. Go talk about Hillary and the FBI. There’s a lot of news out there. But don’t devote the rest of the night to how a candidate’s not showing up because of you. I mean, the network, not just Megyn Kelly. Limbaugh also described the GOP frontrunner as “controlling the media”: “Trump is not that hard to understand if you pay attention to him and read his books,” Limbaugh explained. “In The Art of the Deal, one of the things that he makes a huge deal about is being able to know when to walk away and have the guts and the courage to do it. ” Trump had previously called for Kelly to be removed as a moderator, but Fox News did not comply. “I don’t think it’s any more complicated than that,” Limbaugh added, about understanding Trump through the book The Art of the Deal. I mean, there could be some personal things going on here that I don’t know about. But just from the standpoint of knowing Trump, reading his book, and seeing how he operates elsewhere, in his mind, screw the rules, screw what’s expected, screw ‘This is just the way you do it.’ I’m not gonna put myself in a position [to] go where I’m gonna be treated unfairly. I don’t have to. I’m Donald Trump. Anybody can do this. Trump appeared to approve of Limbaugh’s analysis and show topic, because he posted on Twitter, “Just got to listen to Rush Limbaugh  —   the guy is fantastic!” Trump said he would host a fundraiser for veterans while Fox News holds the debate on Thursday night.