A manhunt is under way for Michael Hawkins, known by the nickname “Zombie Mike,” who is accused of raping a   mentally disabled woman in New York. U. S. Marshals are now saying he may have slipped away to Virginia. [The Marshals service reports that Zombie Mike is a suspect in the rape of a   woman in Schenectady, New York in June 2012 and are offering a $5, 000 reward to information leading to his capture.  Northern District of New York U. S. Marshal David McNulty warned Virginians to be on the lookout for the suspect. Hawkins was labeled “Zombie Mike” for his poor hygiene and it is said he is a good woodsman and can live off the land in forests and wild areas. “Predators like Michael Hawkins who prey on helpless victims must be brought to justice,” Marshal McNulty said. “We, along with our federal, state and local law enforcement partners, are determined to make sure he’s held accountable, but we need the public’s help. ” Authorities also note that Hawkins has a second rape charge hanging over his head, too. In the second case, Hawkins is accused of attacking the wife of a friend who had invited him over to his home. The second attack occurred on November 8, 2013 in Rotterdam, New York. Hawkins was charged with   rape in the Rotterdam case. Hawkins has a history of working with traveling carnivals based in New Jersey, North Carolina, and Ohio and may be hiding among people from that industry. “He has personal ties in New York, Pennsylvania, Virginia, Oregon, California and Florida, but his whereabouts are currently unknown,” authorities added. Zombie Mike is described as a    white male, weighing approximately 160 pounds, with brown hair and brown eyes. He has a    inch scar on his face, a burn mark on his right arm, a tattoo on his chest of the grim reaper and he is known to abuse drugs and alcohol. Officials warn he has a short temper and may be dangerous. Those with information should contact the nearest U. S. Marshals office or the U. S. Marshals Service Communications Center at    . Also information is taken via email: usms. wanted@usdoj. gov. Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston or email the author at igcolonel@hotmail. com