2ndVote, a conservative watchdog group for corporate advocacy, is launching a campaign  —   #AnywhereButTARGET  —   ahead of Black Friday and the holiday shopping season. [According to 2ndVote’s press release, the campaign is meant to allow communication between Target and conservatives based on Target’s restroom policy, which allows individuals to use any restroom based on gender identity rather than biology.  The #AnywhereButTARGET campaign is also meant to provide alternative retailers for conservatives. 2ndVote Executive Director Lance Wray issued a statement saying this campaign will “send a clear and direct message to Target,” which Wray describes as a company “that seems to care more about a radical political agenda than common sense and safety of its own customers. ” Wray continued: 2ndVote is calling on conservative consumers to engage the country’s second largest retailer on its   policy that allows and encourages individuals to choose restroom and changing room facilities based on gender identity rather than biological sex. Immediate pushback from conservatives forced Target to spend $20 million to add gender neutral bathrooms to its stores shortly after announcing the policy earlier this year. The #AnywhereButTARGET campaign comes at the beginning of the busiest shopping season when major retailers, like Target, expect to bring in over 30% of their annual revenue. Concerned Women for America President and CEO Penny Nance is also encouraging the members of her organization, which promotes biblical principles, to shop elsewhere this holiday season. “At Concerned Women for America (CWA) we know we can’t just vote with a ballot, we must also vote with our wallets. Our hope is that Target will hear our vote loud and clear this holiday season,” Nance explained in a statement to Breitbart News, adding: Target’s decision to open their restrooms to transgendered individuals, who are only 0. 3% of the population, is not an issue of inclusivity, it’s an issue of public safety. There are 293, 066 victims of rape each year, and the fact that more than 33% of these sexual assaults happen in public places like restrooms should be of concern to Target. My concern is the hundreds of thousands sexual offenders who take advantage of opportunities such as the one Target is presenting. Target has endangered the safety and privacy of women and children in their stores, so CWA and its hundreds of thousands of members will be taking our business elsewhere. Target has not yet responded to a request for comment about #AnywhereButTarget from Breitbart News. “Conservatives have many other options to Target this season and that’s why we’re choosing #AnywhereButTARGET,” Wray added about 2ndVote’s campaign. “When a company as large and   as Target chooses to insert itself directly into such a radical movement that seeks to ultimately destroy religious liberty and completely goes against our conservative values, it’s our role as an organization to give conservatives a way to communicate directly with the company. ”