House Speaker Paul Ryan’s Wisconsin primary opponent Paul Nehlen said of Ryan on Saturday, “He has betrayed us all, hasn’t he? He says he’s for a secure border. Then what’s he do? He funds every dangerous immigration policy through this $1. 8 trillion omnibus. What he funded was all his special interest buddies. ”[Nehlen’s comments came during an exclusive interview Saturday with Breitbart News Saturday SiriusXM host Stephen K. Bannon. Nehlen pointed out again that 83 percent of Ryan’s camapign donations come from D. C. not his home district: “The vast majority comes in the form of large campaign donations from inside the D. C. Beltway.   …     He sold his vote. He sold his vote. The same people that are donating to his campaign want these open border initiatives. This isn’t a Free Trade deal. ”  Nehlen also hit Ryan for “ ” the presumptive GOP nominee, given his position as Speaker. “He is   the presumptive nominee. It’s embarrassing that’s what it is. ” Added Nehlen, “I’m calling out the enemy. On your show this morning, I’m calling out the enemy. He is Speaker Paul Ryan. ” Nehlen cited the Trans Pacific Partnership (TPP) as one of the primary reasons for calling Ryan “the enemy”: “It’s going to send our jobs overseas, and even worse, it’s going to import foreign workers to replace us in our jobs here at home,” said Nehlen. He also recounted his recent visit to Abbott Labs in Wisconsin. Nehlen said he would look to “lock down” visa programs based on abuse and the cost to American workers: Nehlen called Speaker Paul Ryan “a mercenary champion of this   Trade Partnership,” adding: And that’s why I’m running.   …     I was outside Abbott Labs just a     ago.   …     One hundred eighty employees, IT workers, Americans, have been replaced by   visa holders. I was there with Michelle Malkin and Sara Blackwell, an attorney out of Florida who is donating her time pro bono filing EOC complaints [on behalf of the American losing their jobs]. “The jobs aren’t going away,” said Nehlen. “They’re bringing in people to replace Americans in those jobs. And this   Trade Partnership, it makes it worse. ” He elaborated by saying, “It codifies the opportunity for them to bring workers here and replace us. They won’t even have to go through the paperwork of filing H1 Visa forms. ” As for immigration, “We have got to secure the border and enforce existing immigration laws,” Nehlen stated. “We could secure the border in 72 hours. We could. ” He then asserted, “We just don’t have the political will in Washington. ” Breitbart News Saturday airs on SiriusXM Patriot Channel 125 from 10 a. m. to 1 p. m. Eastern on Saturday.   