LONDON  —   Conservative Party candidates to succeed David Cameron as prime minister started putting themselves forward on Wednesday. The Labour Party was descending further into civil war over whether its leader, Jeremy Corbyn, can keep his job while most Labour legislators want him to quit. Given the chaos, there is growing talk that the endgame for Britain’s political crisis could be another general election, perhaps as soon as this fall, in an effort to bring some clarity to the nation’s leadership and direction after the vote last week to leave the European Union. The current Parliament, elected in May 2015, still has nearly four years of its   term to run. But once the Conservatives settle on a successor to Mr. Cameron, a process that is likely to play out by September, the new prime minister may well want to secure his or her own electoral mandate, especially given the sharp turn Britain has taken and the conflicts over how and whether to proceed with the process of decoupling from Europe. But even the question of an early general election is proving divisive. Boris Johnson, the former mayor of London and a leader of the “Leave” campaign, has been canvassing fellow Conservative members of Parliament, seeking support for his candidacy and getting their views on the advantages of an early general election. But his main rival, Theresa May, the home secretary, who supported staying in the European Union, is considered more of a continuity candidate and may not want to go back to voters so soon, a view shared by Conservatives who were elected to their seats for the first time 13 months ago. But it is the prospect of a quick election that has motivated Labour members in Parliament to try to oust their party leader, Mr. Corbyn, voting overwhelmingly on Tuesday for a motion of no confidence in him that is a necessary prelude to a leadership contest. The rebels fear that under Mr. Corbyn, 67, a leftist who has repudiated what remained of the centrist New Labour movement of the Tony Blair era, the party will be crushed and they will lose their seats with an even worse showing than in last year’s general election, when the Conservatives won an outright majority. About   of Labour’s shadow cabinet, made up of senior legislators who speak on policy for the party, have resigned this week, trying to force Mr. Corbyn to step down. Mr. Corbyn has refused. He has said he will seek another mandate from the   members and supporters of Labour, who elected him by a substantial margin in the first place. But it is unclear whether he remains as popular among the rank and file after leading a halfhearted campaign to keep Britain in the European Union, when many traditional Labour voters chose to stay home or vote against the party’s position. The outcome of any contest would also depend on whom the more centrist Labour legislators find to run against Mr. Corbyn. That may be Angela Eagle, a senior figure of the softer left and the daughter of a printworker, or a more centrist figure like Tom Watson, who was elected deputy leader last year. Other possible contenders include Dan Jarvis and Chuka Umunna, both of whom decided not to run against Mr. Corbyn last year, or Yvette Cooper, who did and lost. Mr. Corbyn has “no plan for a looming general election,” Ms. Cooper said on Tuesday, urging him to resign quickly. “Jeremy would be letting down Labour voters and communities across the country who badly need a strong Labour voice right now, and who badly need a Labour government, if he drags this out any longer,” Ms. Cooper said. “I hope he does the right thing in the party and stands down swiftly because we cannot drift and leave” the Conservatives “to shape Britain’s future. ” In Parliament on Wednesday, Mr. Cameron got in on the act, calling on Mr. Corbyn to quit and attributing to him some of the blame for the outcome of the referendum. “It might be in my party’s interest for him to sit there,” Mr. Cameron said. “It’s not in the national interest. And I would say, ‘For heaven’s sake man, go!’ ” For the Conservatives, there is at least a clear path toward a new leader, and Mr. Johnson and Ms. May are clear favorites. But party history suggests that favorites sometimes founder. Stephen Crabb, 43, who was recently appointed work and pensions secretary and is an    politician with a   background, has also announced his candidacy, backed by the business secretary, Sajid Javid, 46, the son of a bus driver from Pakistan. Others are likely to declare, including Jeremy Hunt, the health secretary. Under the British system, the naming of a new prime minister from the governing party does not require a new general election. The prime minister, after all, is just the first among equals, a legislator chosen by colleagues to lead them. Parliament’s sovereignty is supreme. But in practice, the British system has become a great deal more presidential and personality driven, so individual mandates have come to seem more important. Nearly four years without one would be a long time, especially given all the uncertainties attached to leaving the European Union and the hard choices ahead. Some say they believe that no new leader would enjoy legitimacy without an early election. “It surely cannot be right, as a matter of democratic principle, that only members of the Conservative Party, constituting 0. 003 percent of the total electorate, should have a say in electing a new prime minister,” said Nick Clegg of the Liberal Democrats, who served as deputy prime minister to Mr. Cameron in a coalition government until last year’s general election. Others argue that Britain is in a special situation, having voted against membership of the European Union yet having little notion of what would replace it. Before any new election, they say, the new prime minister should first negotiate a deal extracting Britain from the bloc, and then seek endorsement of it from the voters. Graham Brady, chairman of the influential 1922 Committee of Conservative lawmakers, said that “these are difficult judgments to make,” but he added: “We have a big and complicated task to accomplish. I think that it’s entirely reasonable to expect that we, the government, should embark on that, get on with it, seek to negotiate as good an outcome as we can before the people are asked then to approve or reject that at a general election. ” But that is a   option for an incoming prime minister who is likely to find that he or she cannot deliver what many of those who voted for a British exit, or “Brexit,” were promised or expected. Even more, if a damaged Mr. Corbyn survives the coup attempt against him, the temptation among Conservatives to rush to the polls while Labour is so weak will be almost irresistible. But a bigger lesson has been drawn from the transfer of power in June 2007, when Gordon Brown succeeded Tony Blair as prime minister with so much support in the Labour Party that there was no internal vote. In the fall of that year, Mr. Brown appeared set to call a general election to win his own democratic mandate, only to pull back when his lead in the opinion polls began to shrink. That moment of indecision was seen as a fatal error from which his premiership never recovered. His authority diminished, and he lost an election in 2010. While those leaders effectively had freedom to call general elections when they wanted, the situation changed with new legislation that came into being in 2011. This law lays down a   parliamentary term. Early elections can be held if agreed to by at least   of all lawmakers. There is an alternative provision that allows for an election if a motion of no confidence is passed in Parliament, and no new government is installed within two weeks. These rules have never been tested. But the Conservatives could decide to bring themselves down in a vote of no confidence and Labour would be unable to command a majority, so new elections would be held. Alternatively, a   majority would probably be attainable. Opposition lawmakers would be unlikely to block an early election because that would mean insisting that a prime minister without a popular mandate stay in power and make them look like they were afraid of the voters. Parliament ultimately has the power to overturn these rules and pass a new law altering or abrogating the old one. That would be   but if an incoming prime minister wants to call an election badly enough, it could happen.