Presumptive Republican nominee Donald Trump is speaking directly to America’s police officers and law enforcement. [“We must maintain law and order at the highest level or we will cease to have a country,” Trump stressed while speaking at The Westin Virginia Beach Town Center.  “I am the law and order candidate,” he declared. The audience erupted in applause and cheers. “Hillary Clinton on the other hand is weak, ineffective, pandering and [as proven by] her recent email scandal  —   which was an embarrassment not only to her, but to the entire nation as a whole  —    she’s either a liar or grossly incompetent  …    it’s probably both. ” Trump said Clinton’s conduct with her email use and private server was “willful, intentional and unlawful. ” “She was fully aware of her guilt. She knew it. She’s probably the most surprised person that she was able to get away with it,” Trump alleged of the presumptive Democratic nominee. “This is calculated, deliberate, premeditated misconduct followed by a cover up that included false statements and lies to Congress, the media and the American people. ” Trump was critical of Clinton’s interview with the FBI over the Fourth of July weekend, reminding the audience that it wasn’t recorded or under oath. “Clearly, Hillary Clinton thinks she’s above the law. Come November, the American people will show her that she is not above the law. ” “Not only am I the law and order candidate,” but also the “candidate of compassion,” Trump stated, attempting to differentiate himself from Clinton. “We will protect all Americans. ” Trump told the audience that everyone deserves to walk about their communities feeling safe, adding, “without safety, we have nothing. ” “It’s the job of the next president to make America safe again for everyone,” he stressed. Before talking about veterans issues and his plan to reform Veterans Affairs (VA) Trump spoke about the attack in Dallas, Texas last week where five police officers were murdered during an   street protest. “Our police officers run into danger every single day,” but often are “under relentless criticism,” Trump stated, defending law enforcement. “I want our nation’s police to know that we thank you from the bottom of our heart. ” “We support you and we will always stand with you,” Trump vowed to the police, adding that after the attack in Dallas, “Our whole nation is in mourning. ” Law enforcement separates civilization from total chaos, Trump explained. “The police are needed the most where crime is the highest. ” Trump compared the backlash police are facing now days to the backlash Vietnam veterans faced in the past, saying, “For too many police today, that is their daily reality. ” He then addressed veterans, who “represent the very best of America. ” Trump said it’s time to uphold the promise to veterans that, “You defend America and America will defend you. ” “But that promise has been broken by our politicians,” he added. “Hillary Clinton recently said of the VA scandal that it has not been as wide spread as it has been made out to be  …    she’s been part of this rigged system for a long time. ” “Perhaps it’s easy for politicians to lose touch with reality,” Trump criticized, saying they’ve lost touch with real people because they’re being paid by big donors. “The disconnect in America is deep. There are two Americas: the ruling class and the groups it favors, and then everyone else. ” Trump suggested that if elected, he’ll have an investigation in January 2017 that will reveal more corruption within the VA. “Fixing this corruption will be one of my many and highest priorities. ” “Every veteran will get timely access to top quality medical care,” he promised, adding they’ll have “the right to choose their doctor and clinics. ” “We must extend this right to all veterans,” he stressed.