My name is John Fredericks and I host one of the top syndicated conservative radio talk shows in Virginia. [As one of the only radio personalities in America to project Dave Brat’s historic upset victory that rocked the nation last year, I also predicted Donald Trump would be the 2016 Republican Presidential nominee back in May, before he even officially announced his candidacy.  I rarely make public endorsements of political candidates. I am endorsing GOP   Donald Trump for our party’s nomination. Here’s why: This is not some vague election about the future. It’s an election about what is happening to our country  —   and its people  —   at this very moment. Every day, innocent Americans are being maimed and murdered by criminal aliens roaming free across this country. Violent gangs like   are spreading poverty, violence and ruin. The streets are painted red with the blood of innocent Americans killed by those who should never have been allowed into the country to begin with. But the Washington Republican Party elites do worse than nothing. They join in the mayhem, pushing legislation like Marco Rubio’s Gang of Eight bill to legalize sex offenders and gang members, and to give our jobs, our tax dollars and our voting booths to those who illegally entered our country. Our schools are overcrowded. Our resources are stretched to the breaking point. Our educators indoctrinate our children to believe their own American culture is inferior. Yet, our Washington Republican Party elites do worse than nothing. They push to make the congestion worse, giving precious school slots and dwindling dollars to   waves of newcomers who have not contributed a cent to our taxes or to our local treasuries. Our workers are struggling to get raises, promotions, and job security. 17 million more U. S.  workers in their   years were without jobs in 2014 than in 2000. Our working class has been laid to waste economically. Yet, our Washington Republican Party elites do worse than nothing. They conspire with corporate lobbyists and cheap labor seeking donors to bring in more   workers,   workers, refugees,   holders, and foreign students and on and on to fill available jobs at lower wages. In the meantime welfare rolls surge, food stamps explode, community confidence saps, and assimilation grinds to a halt. There is one man in this race who will bring us back to sanity: Donald J. Trump. His immigration platform  —   outlined in detail on his website  —   puts the needs of American workers first. He’ll reduce immigration, build the border wall, and protect our jobs. In the midst of growing national security threats, Trump is the only candidate who will pause Muslim immigration until our country can be made safe. We have admitted more Muslim immigrants since   than the population of Iowa a pause is the moderate, sensible thing to do. Perhaps people forget that we had zero immigration growth in America for an entire half a century, after Calvin Coolidge hit the pause button. The immigrant population shrank to less than 10 million by 1970. On our current   it will be 80 million by 2065. Meanwhile, our manufacturing sector has been destroyed. An entire way of life has been hollowed out.   Americans are dying off  —   figuratively and literally. Middle class America is circling the drain. Yet, our Washington Republican Party elites do worse than nothing. They join with Obama to Fast Track his extremist   trade agenda. Marco Rubio cast the deciding vote to Fast Track Obamatrade. Paul Ryan did everything in his power to shove it through. Rubio running the White House and Ryan running the People’s House would be like giving Obama four more years to finish his legacy  —   and finish off our working class. Donald Trump is the only candidate who has consistently led the fight against   and the   Partnership. He alone has a trade plan to get back our jobs, our manufacturing, and our middle class existence. We can also count on Trump to create a tax code, a regulatory system, and a budget that keep tax dollars in our pockets, good paying jobs in our communities, energy in our homes and businesses in business. Trump will put the special interests on a level playing field and reign in the EPA. A President Trump would be beholden only to one entity: the American people. Trump also has a rational foreign policy. Some want to   and police across the globe  —   with our sons’ and daughters’ blood and our money  —   all while importing the world’s displaced refugees into our communities. It is time to stop   and instead start building alliances based on our national interest. It’s time for all of us to accept some uncomfortable truths. Our current crop of D. C. GOP elite leaders are working against us, not for us. Whereas the Democrat leaders are loyal to their base and will defend it at every turn, the D. C. GOP elites often loathe their base. Have you ever heard a Democrat say Nancy Pelosi isn’t liberal enough? Yet we are stuck with the D. C. GOP elite open borders crowd  —   led by Speaker Paul Ryan  —   who wants to work with Obama to free criminals from jail, pass Obama’s TPP trade pact, and complete Obama’s immigration legacy. Voting Republican in national elections has become a form of ritualized  . We keep voting, we keep believing, we keep electing national Republicans  —   and they keep betraying us. Rinse, wash, repeat. The painful truth is that the establishment Washington Republican Party leadership class has become a   business model. They appear to regard their shareholders not as average folks but as the members of the professional political class. The retread consultants who appear relentlessly on television, on campaigns, in the Congressional offices  —   it’s all one big revolving door. And everyone is profiting  —   but us. Like a large   monopoly, the D. C. GOP elites are interested only in protecting their market share, their power, their windowed corner offices and their corporate officers. They work for their big donors who pull the strings. Trump has no donors. He will work for us. The D. C, GOP elites view dissent from voters, radio talk show hosts, activists and conservative thinkers as annoyances to be quashed. That is precisely why the Republican Party of Virginia has created a new loyalty oath to intimidate new voters Trump has brought to the Party  —   including Trump’s many Independents and black supporters  —   from coming to the polls. When is the last time you turned on the T. V. and heard a Republican pundit or politician defend the American worker and our wages? When is the last time the D. C. GOP fought as hard to protect your family from mass immigration as they fought to pass Obamatrade, or an awful omnibus budget deal, or another meaningless show vote? When is the last time your D. C. GOP elites spoke in your defense, instead of lecturing you about how you need to get with their program? When have you ever heard a Republican State of the Union response where the GOP speaker fought as hard for your family as the President fights for the families of illegal immigrants? When have you ever heard a Republican State of the Union response where the speaker spends half her time bashing a Presidential candidate  —   in her own Party? When have you ever even heard a Republican leader  —   any Republican leader  —   say they agree with the overwhelming majority of GOP voters who think immigration numbers are too high? When Disney workers were replaced with foreign   workers, the D. C. GOP elites did not lift a finger on their behalf. Only Donald Trump demanded that Disney hire them back. When terrorists attacked San Bernadino, the D. C. GOP elites went out of their way to tell us how America has a duty to let in as many Muslim immigrants as wish to come here, no matter what they believe about America. Only Donald Trump said it was time to hit pause. When Obama tried to ram through his Fast Track for TPP, the Washington Republican Party elites laughed at your pleas, mocks us as “Neanderthals” and shoved it through. Only Trump said hell no. Only one person in the race cannot be bought, cannot be corrupted. Only one person in this race can smash that revolving door to pieces. The fact that the professional class so hates the idea of Trump winning is the proof  —   the only reliable proof  —   that Donald Trump is the one man who can give us our country back and put the people who have betrayed us out of business. This is our moment of truth. This is our moment of justice. This is our moment of redemption. This is our moment to show the media elites, the professional political consultant cabal, the open border   the banksters, the Tarpists and the crony capitalists that this is still our country. Together, we can take our country back. And Make America Great Again. John Fredericks is a syndicated morning radio talk show host in Virginia. Fredericks show “Common Sense for the Commonwealth” can be heard weekdays   a. m. on WNTW AM 820   in Richmond, WHKT AM 1650   in Hampton Roads and WBRG AM 1050, 106. 7FM  105. 1 in  . The John Fredericks show is streamed live: 