Planned Parenthood is celebrating its centennial anniversary, the same year its dream presidential candidate, Hillary Clinton, is vowing to ensure more black women can have abortions because taxpayers will pay for them. [Celebrate with us on   ! Snap a pic of your best ”power pose” to mark your place in Planned Parenthood history. Use #100YearsStrong. pic. twitter.   —   Planned Parenthood (@PPFA) October 15, 2016,   It’s fitting that the nation’s largest provider of abortions, founded by eugenicist Margaret Sanger on October 16, 1916, is campaigning for Clinton  —   who was once the recipient of Planned Parenthood’s own Sanger award. “I admire Margaret Sanger enormously,” Clinton said as she accepted the award in 2009. “Her courage, her tenacity, her vision. ” “When I think about what [Sanger] did all those years ago in Brooklyn,” Clinton continued. “I am really in awe of her. And there are a lot of lessons we that can learn from her life and the cause she launched and fought for and sacrificed so greatly. ” . @TrustBlackWomen’s take down of the lies abortion opponents use to try to discredit @PPFA  vilify Margaret Sanger: https:  .   —   Planned Parenthood (@PPFA) October 15, 2016,  Sanger’s organization  —   which now rakes in more than $500 million in taxpayer funding annually  —   grew to perform over 300, 000 abortions per year in the United States. According to the 2010 census, 79 percent of Planned Parenthood’s surgical abortion facilities are located within walking distance of black or Hispanic neighborhoods. Some 59 million abortions have been performed in the country since the Supreme Court’s Roe v. Wade decision in 1973, nearly 18 million of them on black babies. As Breitbart News has reported, the Alan Guttmacher Institute also provided data showing that about 30 percent of all abortions in the U. S. are performed on black women, with another 25 percent performed on Hispanic women. Perhaps the most stirring statistic comes from New York City, where more black babies are aborted than are born. Sanger was committed to ensuring every woman could control her own life. But like most visionaries, she was flawed: https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Planned Parenthood (@PPFA) October 14, 2016,  Planned Parenthood has been under congressional investigation for the past year following allegations that it profits from the sale of the body parts of babies it aborts in its clinics. As part of its desperate scheme to defend itself against the allegations, the abortion business has gone so far out of the mainstream of America that it has cemented a relationship with the   LGBT agenda, and now even offers “transgender hormone treatments” at its clinics. In an attempt to shore up its support from black women, Planned Parenthood is relying on an alliance with Black Lives Matter and similar black activist groups, even to the extent of contorting BLM’s claim that law enforcement is racist against blacks into a new social justice cause called “reproductive justice” (#ReproJustice ). Once again  —   it’s all about abortion for Planned Parenthood. Justice for #MikeBrown is #ReproJustice. None are safe until we all can be free from violence.   @SisterSong_WOC https:  .   —   Planned Parenthood (@PPact) August 9, 2016,  Black Christians will have none of it, however. Baltimore Ravens tight end Ben Watson commented on Sanger’s bigotry in August. “I do know that blacks kind of represent a large portion of the abortions,” Watson told TurningPointFriends. org, “and I do know that honestly the whole idea with Planned Parenthood and [founder Margaret] Sanger in the past was to exterminate blacks, and it’s kind of ironic that it’s working. ” Retired NFL Super Bowl champion Burgess Owens backed up Watson. “Sanger looked at blacks as ‘weeds,’” Owens told Breitbart News, adding that the NAACP was complicit in the decimation of the black community through abortion: The NAACP was not a     organization. It was run by 21 white, socialist, atheist, Marxist Democrats. It was the antithesis of Rev. Martin Luther King Sr. ’s community at that time, which was capitalist, Christian, very   and  . So, these 21 white people began to put a message through to the black community that Democrats were good, liberalism was good, and they subscribed to the same philosophy that Margaret Sanger believed of blacks at that time. Sanger, who began the Negro Project in 1939 and worked to bring birth control to blacks in an effort to reduce their population, joined with elite and well known   Mary McLeod Bethune, W. E. B. DuBois, and Rev. Adam Clayton Powell, Sr. The Negro Project was sold as a solution to poverty and high birth rates among the black community. At the same time Sanger promoted her theory of “eliminating the unfit,” she also condemned charitable organizations that she believed were elevating the very population that needed to be weeded out. “If you wonder why urban, young, black women are allowing themselves to be victimized by Planned Parenthood, look at BET [Black Entertainment Television] which is owned by very wealthy white Democrats,” Owens urged. “Look at the 15 years of messaging that has been gotten through to our urban black communities:       and  . ” “Forty percent of black babies have been given to the altar of abortion,” he observed. “In any other society, that would be considered genocide. Today, we put a nice name to it and, at the same time, have convinced our own mothers that their babies are no more than an inconvenience or a profit. ” Breitbart News Sports editor Dan Flynn noted as well how Sanger used black ministers to promote her agenda: And Planned Parenthood’s founder lived until 1966 —  hardly the stone ages —  and continued to spout bigotry and promote eugenics until the very end. Margaret Sanger used the   in private correspondence, spoke at a Ku Klux Klan gathering in 1926, and boasted of starting a “negro programme” aimed to curtail the growth of the black population. “We do not want the word to go out that we want to exterminate the Negro population,” she wrote Procter and Gamble heir Dr. Clarence Gamble in 1939, “and the minister is the man who can straighten that idea out if it ever occurs to any of their more rebellious members. ” In January, when Clinton accepted the official endorsement of Planned Parenthood, she also called for an end to the Hyde Amendment so that more   black and Hispanic women could obtain abortions on demand on the taxpayer’s dime. “I will always defend Planned Parenthood,” Clinton said. “And I will say  —   consistently and proudly  —   Planned Parenthood should be funded, supported, and appreciated not undermined, misrepresented, and demonized. ” Clinton, who also said unborn babies have no constitutional rights, added that women have the right to abortion. “Any right that requires you to take measures to access it, is no right at all,” she said, “not as long as we have laws on the books like the Hyde Amendment, making it harder for   women to exercise their full rights. ”