Donald Trump asks on his Twitter account whether he can “press charges” against Michelle Fields, as David Martosko of the Daily Mail prints purported quotes from an anonymous Secret Service agent in Trump’s security detail  —   claiming Fields was warned she was too close to the billionaire presidential candidate. [From the Daily Mail:  Republican   Donald Trump’s campaign manager Corey Lewandowski has been charged with simple battery for allegedly grabbing a reporter, in a case that may hinge on a Secret Service claim that the journalist first made unwanted physical contact with the   . ‘Victory press conference was over. Why is she allowed to grab me and shout questions? Can I press charges?’ Trump tweeted this afternoon. Victory press conference was over. Why is she allowed to grab me and shout questions? Can I press charges? pic. twitter.   —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 29, 2016,  This was the reporters   when she found out there was tape from my facility, she changed her tune. pic. twitter.   —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 29, 2016,  Why is this reporter touching me as I leave news conference? What is in her hand?? pic. twitter.   —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 29, 2016,  The misdemeanor case stems from an incident involving Lewandowski and   Breitbart. com reporter Michelle Fields. After Trump’s March 8 press conference at the Trump National Golf Course in Jupiter, Fields walked alongside him to ask a question and later said Lewandowski grabbed and bruised her. Jupiter Police released surveillance footage on Tuesday giving the public an   view of the incident where the grab at Fields is clear. But speaking on condition of anonymity, a member of Trump’s Secret Service detail told DailyMail. com on Tuesday that Fields touched Trump twice  —   and was warned by agents to stop  —   before Lewandowski pulled her away. ‘She crossed in between agents and our protectee after being told not to,’ said the agent, who was present that night in Jupiter. Read the rest of the story here.