CLEVELAND, Ohio  —   Donald Trump’s National Diversity Coalition adviser Dr. Lisa Shin heralded her parents’ story of immigrating to the United States, slammed Hillary Clinton as a threat to and pointed to Donald Trump as preserver of the American Dream. [Owner of Los Alamos Family Eyecare, Dr. Shin announced herself as a national delegate from New Mexico, a Chrisitan, wife and mother.  “I have been in private practice as an optometrist for the past 19 years. I am  . And I am very proud to be a supporter of the next President of the United States, Donald J. Trump!” “Over 40 years ago,” said Shin, “my parents left South Korea to come to America. ” They knew that America was an exceptional and generous country where immigrants could become American citizens, participate in American democracy, and live the American dream. They knew America was the land of opportunity and freedom, where immigrants could succeed and prosper. So they swore an oath to support and defend the Constitution. Shin told of “countless hardships” and “tremendous sacrifices” her parents made in pursuit of the American Dream. “This is the beauty of the American Dream: to do and to be, the unimaginable. ” “Hillary Clinton is a direct threat to the American Dream,” she added. The eye care business owner called a Clinton’s proposals “utterly devastating to our economy. ” “Her dangerous ideology undermines our democracy and freedom,” said Shin. “She represents everything that is wrong with the system: the deceit, corruption, cronyism, and a total lack of accountability. ” Shin made implied reference to Clinton’s “extremely careless” handling of classified information using an unsecured private email server that she said, “compromised our national security and our safety. ” With contempt, she has flouted the rule of law that we rely on for justice, order, and peace. She has overwhelmingly lost the trust of the American people. She is not qualified to be our next president. She is unfit to be the commander in chief of the brave men and women who sacrifice so much to fight for our country. The   American said, There is only one presidential candidate who will preserve the American dream that our parents and our grandparents envisioned for us. There is only one candidate who will ensure a more prosperous, safe, and secure future for our children and our grandchildren. There is only one candidate who will defend the core principles that this great country was founded upon. There is only one candidate who will protect, stand with and fight for we, the American people. There is only clear choice for America: that choice is Donald J. Trump. Follow Michelle Moons on Twitter @MichelleDiana 