The Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture in New York City, Chicano Park in San Diego, a Native American burial ground in Kansas and the site of the 1970 shootings at Kent State University are among 24 newly designated National Historic Landmarks. The list of new landmarks, announced on Wednesday, comes as the National Park Service, the division of the Department of the Interior that administers the landmarks program, has finished celebrating its 100th anniversary. It reflects an effort to tell what a news release called “a more inclusive and diverse story of America’s history. ” “These 24 new designations depict different threads of the American story that have been told through activism, architecture, music and religious observance,” Sally Jewell, the secretary of the Interior, said in a statement. “Their designation ensures that future generations have the ability to learn from the past. ” The sites, which join a list of more than 2, 500 existing national historic landmarks, may reflect America’s past, but they also might be read as carrying some pointed political lessons for the future. They include the homes of the slain civil rights leader Medgar Evers the   lawyer and women’s rights activist Pauli Murray and the   Tejano statesman José Antonio Navarro, who is cited for “his commitments to both American ideals and to the rights of Texan  ” in the period before and after Texas became part of the United States. The Navarro home is just one of several new landmarks relating to the history of   activism, including Chicano Park in San Diego, site of some ultimately successful 1970 community protests. Other citations speak to the sometimes deadly legacies of government action. The citation for Wyandotte National Burying Ground in Kansas City, Kan. describes it as “tangible evidence of the consequences of federal American Indian removal policy to a tribal population and its identity. ” The citation for the Kent State site, where the Ohio National Guard shot and killed four students and wounded nine other people during a protest against the Vietnam War, refers to subsequent rulings by the Supreme Court that “the executive branch of government does not enjoy absolute immunity for its actions. ” A number of the sites are recognized for what may seem to be more straightforward significance as architecture or engineering, like the Neutra Studio and Residences in Los Angeles (associated with the modernist Richard Neutra) and the   Organ, at a Methodist camp in Round Lake, N. Y. The instrument is cited as “an example of the technical and mechanical achievements in the   War American   industry. ” But even the designations for some seemingly straightforward sites might be seen as resonant with contemporary politics. The New York State Barge Canal, begun in 1905, is called “an embodiment of a Progressive Era emphasis on public works,” which was “built explicitly to counter the growing monopoly of railroad corporations. ” Kevin Young, the director of the Schomburg Center, a division of the New York Public Library in Harlem, said in an email that he was “especially pleased” that the announcement had noted the center’s social mission of promoting “intellectual freedom and social equality. ” He also noted the reference to the   roots of its namesake, the   immigrant bibliophile Arturo Schomburg. “Our focus on the entire African Diaspora has been important ever since our start 92 years ago,” said Mr. Young, who took over leadership at the center in December. “I am looking forward personally to exploring the   connection, both in our collections and lively programming. ”