For more than a century, Hershey  —   an American candy icon so well known it gave its name to its Pennsylvania hometown  —   has stood independent, rebuffing numerous attempts to buy the maker of Kisses and Reese’s Peanut Butter Cups. Now, it faces one of its biggest challenges yet, in the form of a fellow chocolate giant eager to strike a big takeover deal. In rebuffing a $23 billion offer from Mondelez International, whose own products run from Oreo cookies to Cadbury chocolate, Hershey is betting that it can stay on its own, or at least fetch a substantially higher price. But flatly rejecting Mondelez’s offer will be a major test of Hershey’s historically impregnable defense: the charitable trust that effectively wields control. The offer, made in a letter on June 23 after months of    discussions between the two companies, would make a blockbuster merger in a year that has been sorely lacking in hugely prominent deals. Moreover, it is a bold move by Mondelez at a time when other   deal makers have grown more cautious in the face of uncertain winds in the marketplace and the economy. Mondelez’s move has also raised questions about whether other food companies will seek to make their own run at Hershey  —   or whether Mondelez itself may be put into play. After the activist investor William A. Ackman took a big stake in Mondelez nearly a year ago, speculation emerged that he would push for a sale, possibly to Kraft Heinz. Mondelez, cleaved from what once was Kraft, has offered $107 a share in cash and stock, a 10 percent premium to Hershey’s closing stock price on Wednesday. Hershey, however, said on Thursday that its board had “rejected the indication of interest and determined that it provided no basis for further discussion between Mondelez and the company. ” Mondelez declined to comment. Hershey would represent the biggest takeover by Mondelez since its former parent bought Cadbury of Britain in a $19 billion deal more than six years ago. That transaction, too, took time, and Cadbury initially rebuffed the American food behemoth’s advances. Pursuing Hershey is a different matter. A trust holds about 8. 4 percent of the candy maker’s shares, but has about 81 percent of the company’s voting power. The shares of the company  —   both the common and the special Class B shares  —   are owned by the Milton Hershey School Trust, but are voted on by the Hershey Trust. The Milton Hershey School was founded in 1909 for underprivileged children by the company’s founder and his wife. The trust has flexed its muscle several times over in the last two decades. When the Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company wanted to buy Hershey at a 42 percent premium in 2002, the trust called off the sale at the last minute. When the trust became unhappy with Hershey’s performance and deal talks with Cadbury in 2007, it asked for the resignation of six directors. And when Hershey wanted to challenge Kraft for Cadbury in 2010, a rift between the company and the trust forced the Pennsylvania chocolatier to bow out. The trust has already retained advisers separate from the Hershey Company itself as it weighs its own options. To make matters even more complicated, Pennsylvania’s attorney general, who oversees charitable trusts in the state, has raised concerns over the Hershey trust’s administration of its funds and called for an overhaul of its board. Any turnover could alter the dynamics of the percolating takeover contest. Mondelez has been mindful of winning over the trust. In its letter last week, it promised to maintain jobs and relocate the combined company’s chocolate operations to Hershey, Pa. Mondelez even offered to erase its name  —   reportedly born from a Kraft employee’s contribution to a rebranding effort  —   in favor of the   Hershey name. Putting the two together would yield a powerful force in the business of sweets. Mondelez, which was spun off from Kraft in 2012, is the world’s   confectionery company  —   but it has very little business in the United States. Hershey, on the other hand, has more than   of its sales in North America. “It’s a surprising move, but it does make sense for Mondelez,” said Jack Skelly, a food analyst with Euromonitor. Additionally, Hershey owns the rights to make and market Cadbury chocolate  —   but not other candies  —   in America, and it took legal action to stop imports of Cadbury chocolates made abroad. (At the same time, Hershey manufactures KitKat bars, one of the most popular brands around, under a license from Nestlé. Should Mondelez prevail, it is unclear whether that agreement would change.) Both companies have improved profitability in the last several years and moved into sexier corners of the food business. Hershey, for instance, bought Krave and got into the increasingly popular jerky business. Mondelez bought Enjoy Life Foods, testing the market for   products. But the company has come under pressure from activist investors in recent years, including the billionaire Nelson Peltz, as well as Mr. Ackman. Rising cocoa prices have made the chocolate business less profitable, and it’s hard to raise sales of chocolate in the United States, the world’s largest consumer of chocolate. “Also, it’s difficult to generate sales because people are starting to think of chocolate as an unhealthy product,” noted Mr. Skelly of Euromonitor. Mars, which is privately held, is the world’s largest confectionery company, followed by Mondelez. The others in the top five are Nestlé, the Ferrero Group and Hershey. As of Wednesday’s close, before word of Mondelez’s bid emerged, Hershey’s market value was about $21 billion, while Mondelez’s stood at $69 billion. Shares of Hershey climbed over 16 percent, to $113. 49. Shares of Mondelez rose nearly 6 percent, to $45. 51.