Good morning. This is the last day of our test of California Today, a daily update for our California readers. Thanks to everyone who told us what they want to see. We received more than 2, 500 emails. We’d still like to hear from you: CAtoday@nytimes. com All over California, communities are grappling with a shortage of affordable housing. Is Airbnb part of the problem? The company is increasingly at odds with local governments in the state. Los Angeles is considering major restrictions on   home rentals, and wants Airbnb to help police hosts who skirt the rules. Airbnb has resisted, accusing officials of overreaching. The city of Sacramento approved regulations in January. Anaheim just banned   rentals entirely. Residents had complained that Disneyland visitors had overrun their neighborhoods. Now, Airbnb is in a legal battle with its hometown, San Francisco, which has brought up wrenching questions about inequality, neighborhood change and the free market. Founded inside a San Francisco apartment, Airbnb is a major local success story. There are more Airbnb listings per capita in San Francisco than in any other United States city. The company has been celebrated there as a trailblazer in the   sharing economy. But Airbnb has also become a focal point for anger at the tech industry  —   even more so than the Google buses that bring workers to jobs in Silicon Valley.   rentals in San Francisco are being blamed, at least in part, for rising rents that are driving out longtime residents. Last year, Airbnb spent more than $8 million to defeat a ballot measure that would have limited rentals to no more than 75 nights a year. Last month, San Francisco supervisors unanimously approved an ordinance that would fine Airbnb $1, 000 per day for each host listed on its website who is not registered with the city. In suing to stop the law, Airbnb has emphasized its San Francisco roots. “This legislation ignores the reality that the system is not working and this new approach will harm thousands of everyday San Francisco residents who depend on Airbnb,” the company said. We spoke to our San   reporter who has been covering Airbnb, Katie Benner, about why the company is such a flash point. “It’s this very visible sign of the problem,” she said. “Not just of gentrification, but of how wide the disparity is between people who have opportunities and people who don’t. ” • Gov. Jerry Brown has signed six gun control bills that will impose new restrictions on assault weapons and regulate the sale of ammunition. California may well have the toughest gun control laws in the country now. • The driver of a Tesla Model S electric sedan was killed in an accident when the car was in   mode, and federal regulators are investigating. • The legal battle for Sumner Redstone’s $40 billion media empire is now focusing on his mental state. • A popular host of YouTube videos about gay rights was charged in Los Angeles with filing a false report about being severely beaten outside a gay club. • A Nielsen study on how we consume media finds people are still watching plenty of TV but services like Netflix and Amazon Prime are growing rapidly. • More than 100 Nobel laureates have a message for Greenpeace: Quit bashing genetically modified organisms and food. • “Hello, Jerry. ” In “Seinfeldia: How a Show About Nothing Changed Everything,” the author delivers a solid history of the series, our book reviewer writes. • Our reviewer’s take on Steven Spielberg’s “BFG”: It’s “a small, friendly movie, an attempt to reconcile the scale and dazzle of modern filmmaking with the quiet, mischievous charm of Roald Dahl’s book. ” • In “Tarzan,” our reviewer writes, “the filmmakers have given Tarzan a thoughtful, imperfect makeover. ” • Over the last year, California drivers have paid up to $1. 50 more than the rest of the country for each gallon of gasoline. The state attorney general is trying to find out why, and subpoenaed oil refiners as part of the investigation. [Los Angeles Times] • A San Francisco city supervisor believes arson may be the cause of a string of fires that have displaced residents in the Mission district. [San Francisco Examiner] • “While many complain of the obvious dysfunction in Washington, few see the incomparably greater danger of ‘nuclear doom. ’” Governor Brown found time to review a book about the nuclear age. [New York Review of Books] • Afraid of Zika? Check out this interactive map of where the Aedes aegypti mosquito, which carries the virus, has been found in California. [KQED] When questioned by reporters about the state budget, which he signed this week, Governor Brown responded with a parable, Aesop’s “The Ant and the Grasshopper. ” Aesop, an ancient Greek fabulist, “has some credibility,” Mr. Brown said. That was one of the governor’s less obscure literary references. Since returning to Sacramento in 2011 for a second stint as governor, he has quoted poets, religious scholars and biologists. He invoked the book of Genesis, Oliver Wendell Holmes, a king of Spain and “The Little Engine That Could” all in the same 2013 speech. “Over the mountain the little engine went  —   we are going to get over that mountain,” he said, making an analogy to California’s   rail plan after quoting the children’s book. The unusual source material has perplexed some analysts. He was, of course, called “Governor Moonbeam” during his first spell in charge of the state. But his literary breadth may also help reinforce his image as a wise, old  —   well, experienced (he’s 78)  —   politician, who will keep his party’s impulses to spend in check. During a speech last year about climate change, Mr. Brown said proudly that he was among the last politicians with a classics degree. “It does come in handy,” he said, “because some of the same mistakes have been made over and over again. ” California Today is a weekday roundup that stays live from 6 a. m. Pacific time until late morning. What would you like to see here to start your day? Email us at CAtoday@nytimes. com, or reach us via Twitter using #CAToday. Follow the California Today columnist, Ian Lovett, on Twitter.