The Islamic State assailants who killed 20 people in a restaurant in Dhaka, the capital of Bangladesh, on Friday picked a place that attracted students, textile producers and employees at nonprofit groups. The people they killed were interested in art, world peace and international business. The victims were from at least four countries, and they were thriving in an interconnected world. The gruesome attack wrenched the customers of the Holey Artisan Bakery from a world of curiosity, tolerance and cultural exchange and thrust them into the world of global terrorism. After an   standoff between the attackers and the Bangladeshi security forces, the death toll included people who were part of Dhaka’s   group of Italians, and a group of young students with ties to America. Diego Rossini, an Argentine chef who survived the attack by escaping to the roof, told C5N, an Argentine television station, that the gunmen had singled out foreigners. “That’s who they were particularly looking for,” he said. But in the end, three Bangladeshis were listed among the dead, including Ishrat Akhond, a human resource specialist who also worked at art galleries and spent her spare time volunteering for nonprofits. JCI Bangladesh, a group focused on global peace and a former employer of Ms. Akhond’s, said in a Facebook post on Saturday that she had been killed. “A passionate and lovely human being,” a friend, Shakhawat Khan, wrote on Facebook. “She used to start her status with the following words, ‘I am happy because. ’” Nine Italians, whose identities were confirmed by Italian authorities on Saturday, were also among the dead. They were among about 200 Italians living in Dhaka, said Tullio Ferri, an Italian who lives there and a friend of eight of the nine victims. “It’s a small community,,” Mr. Ferri said. “We are all very close. We’re more like a family. ” He said that all of the Italians worked in the apparel industry. Some were producers, some direct clients, and others worked as agents for Italian importers. One of the victims, Adele Puglisi of Catania, Sicily, had for years managed the Dhaka office of a large Italian company that makes children’s clothing. The restaurant “was a place to go to feel more at home,” said Mr. Ferri, adding that it was a regular hangout for foreigners living and working in Dhaka. “Sometimes we went together, sometimes we met up there by chance,” he said. Another Italian victim, Nadia Benedetti, owned a textile business and had worked in Bangladesh for 12 years, her landlord, Tarique Hyder, said in a Facebook post. Mr. Hyder called her contributions to Bangladesh “remarkable. ” Another victim, Simona Monti, 33, was thinking of moving back to Italy because she had just discovered that she was pregnant. She loved her hometown, Magliano Sabina, just north of Rome, but she had taken a job in Bangladesh’s textile industry, said Alfredo Graziani, the town’s mayor. Claudia D’Antona had lived in India and Bangladesh for 18 years, said her sister Patrizia. Ms. D’Antona and her husband, Giovanni Boschetti, were not afraid of living in Dhaka, but they were careful, the sister said. She said that on Friday night the couple “had dined at that restaurant because they felt safe there, because of where it was, close to the embassy where they were married. ” Mr. Boschetti survived because he had been called away for a phone call and was outside when the gunmen attacked. Seven Japanese citizens who were in Dhaka to work on a project sponsored by the Japan International Cooperation Agency were also killed in the attack. Their names were not immediately released. A    Indian student named Tarishi Jain was one of the first victims to be identified. In a statement that condemned the “brutal act of terrorism in Dhaka,” John Kirby, a State Department spokesman, said an American citizen had been killed at the restaurant. That victim’s name was not released. On Saturday, Emory University in Atlanta said that two of the victims, Abinta Kabir and Faraaz Hossain, were students at Oxford College, a division of Emory that enrolls only freshmen and sophomores. They were visiting family in Dhaka for the summer. The university said in a statement that Ms. Kabir was a sophomore from Miami and that Mr. Hossain was an Oxford graduate with plans to attend the university’s business school. The victims’ social media profiles reflected interests in world travel and in their school’s student community. Both listed Dhaka as their hometown on Facebook. In March, Mr. Hossain posted a Spirit Week flyer to his Facebook page. The colorful sign featured famous structures from around the world, including the Eiffel Tower and the Taj Mahal. Both students knew Ms. Jain, who attended the University of California, Berkeley, and was a graduate of the American International School in Dhaka. At Berkeley, Ms. Jain participated in a   business that     and used the proceeds to support underprivileged entrepreneurs around the world.