At a sleepy show last month in the grim basement of the Broadway Comedy Club, a Midtown spot that feels frozen in time from the 1980s comedy boom, Julio Torres looked at his feet, speaking to a small crowd in a near monotone. “The hardest part about being vegan is the apologies,” he said, to silence. “People ask if I miss meat or dairy. I miss being liked. ” Mr. Torres, a millennial comic with a slight build, shy persona and a hint of an accent (he emigrated from El Salvador) is better known in alternative spaces than in clubs, but this line got a big laugh. He raised his   blond head and made eye contact before going for the kill: “I don’t miss cheese. I miss being asked to do things. I miss my friends and family. ” Judging by the    surroundings, you would never know that Mr. Torres is the newest star of “Saturday Night Live. ” He has never appeared on the show, but if you’ve been surprised by incongruously dreamy comedy this season, chances are he had something to do with it. Mr. Torres, who has the same delightfully alien sensibility as his sometimes nickname, Space Prince, joined the writing staff in the fall and has already introduced a new style to the show, which returns on Saturday after a holiday break. Early in his tenure, he wrote a distinctively moody digital short, half in Spanish, starring   Miranda as a sensitive boy named Diego calling his mother in Mexico from a telephone booth in a North Dakota cornfield, describing America with wonder and romance. (He explains a marshmallow salad with the baffled awe of someone seeing a U. F. O.) This monologue played as flashbacks of   signs and football players took nostalgic tropes of Americana and repurposed them into an immigrant’s love letter. There were slight homoerotic overtones but not a note of gay panic. Mr. Torres, with Anna Drezen, also wrote a “Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?” satire the next week that imagined the sparring partners of that 1962 drama as hamsters trapped in a glass box. One week later, he returned to highbrow animals in a digital short, released online, that imagined what a swan inside a motel painting would say if he could talk. Turns out, he would harass the duck nearby. “Have you inspired countless ballets?” said the swan, voiced by Dave Chappelle. “What was it called?” he asked, adding, “It wasn’t called Duck Lake. ” This rarefied comedy stands out on a   show that has long had a populist voice, leaning toward topical jokes, and broadly accessible references. But Mr. Torres’s approach is also not entirely successful, often more interesting than funny. Then again, he was just getting started. Much of his comedy on “Saturday Night Live” hinges on empathetic shifts in perspective, showing us the roiling inner life of an animal, an object (as in a   sketch from the point of view of a  sink having an existential crisis) or a person not known for introspection. His first real triumph was another surprising immigrant story: “Melania’s Moments,” a series of digital shorts that detailed the thoughts of the future first lady in a concise form that resembles the mellow   from the “S. N. L. ” writer Jack Handey’s “Deep Thoughts. ” Mr. Handey aimed for pure absurdity, but Mr. Torres makes Melania Trump a tragic,   heroine trapped in her gilded cage. Approaching a window in Trump Tower, like a cursed princess, she gazes onto Fifth Avenue, wondering about Sixth Avenue the way a Chekhov character dreams of Moscow. In another short, she wakes up in a cold sweat with the sense that her replacement is being born in rural Latvia, then decides to protect her. Even though the writing staffs of “Saturday Night Live” have been as rich in talent as the casts, the star system has always worked only for those on camera. Performers became famous, while writers, even those like James Downey, who defined political humor for a generation, toiled in relative obscurity, partly because the show never revealed who was responsible for which sketch. (Mr. Handey was an exception.) But this has been changing. The   John Mulaney has gained more than a little acclaim for writing jokes for the popular character Stefon, played by Bill Hader (who has given him credit in interviews). Comedy journalism online now covers writers’ rooms obsessively, and social media has also made the artistic process more transparent  —   with comics praising specific sketches.   New York comedy fans were already familiar with Mr. Torres (who appeared on Louis C. K.’s “Horace and Pete”) when he got the job. But he didn’t emerge from the usual clubs or improv factories. The buzz over his work grew in December, when he wrote two superb bits with Jeremy Beiler, digital shorts that earned laughs as much as knowing nods. Their sly ad for a new   toy for sensitive, lonely boys, “Wells for Boys,” uses a classic “S. N. L. ” format  —   the ad satire  —   for an arch idea, that the delicate child’s version of a monster truck is a plastic well to sit near and brood. But Mr. Torres and Mr. Beiler delivered an even more impressive feat with the formally clever, but also topical, companion to “Melania’s Moments” that was presented from the point of view of Donald J. Trump. We now spend so much time looking at Mr. Trump that putting us behind his eyes was a fertile concept. This short has a paranoid vibe out of “Rosemary’s Baby,” but, like all of Mr. Torres’s sketches, it has a tone that’s sneakily sympathetic. Mr. Trump (played by John Cena) doesn’t appear to be having any more fun than his wife does in “Melania’s Moments. ” Television blares insults about him. His handlers work him over, and his voters and colleagues bore him with tedium about politics and policy. Then comes relief (and the punch line) in the form of Kellyanne Conway, played by Kate McKinnon, who hypnotically encourages him to sleep. Mr. Trump dreams of a version of himself embracing him and declaring his love. Then the two Donald Trumps twirl together. This danse macabre is a study in   but it also proposes an idea that is not only characteristic of Mr. Torres’s work, but also helps explain how he has successfully translated his idiosyncratic vision for a broad audience: Never underestimate people’s capacity to see themselves as outsiders, because, in our own minds, we all at some point see ourselves a bit as space princes.