PARIS  —   A Belgian judge sentenced 15 people on Tuesday for their involvement in a terrorist plot that was thwarted in early 2015 but was a harbinger of the deadly attacks later that year in Paris. The aborted plot’s chief architect is believed to have been Abdelhamid Abaaoud, a Belgian operative for the Islamic State. Mr. Abaaoud traveled to the group’s bases in Syria and was the    coordinator of the attacks on Nov. 13 in and around Paris, which killed 130 people. The plot that was halted in Verviers, a   city in southern Belgium, was the first in a series of terrorist operations that Mr. Abaaoud was believed to have planned but that never happened. By the time of the attacks in Paris, he had learned from his mistakes. Mr. Abaaoud was killed in a shootout in St. Denis, France, five days after those attacks. Of the 15 people sentenced on Tuesday, six were in the Brussels courtroom at the time the other nine were tried in absentia because they were on the run, sick or dead. The sentences ranged from three to 16 years in prison, with three of the men receiving the maximum because of their participation in and leadership of the Verviers group. The others were convicted of supporting the terror network, but it was not clear how much they knew about the scope of the plot. Although Belgian prosecutors and the police described the Verviers plot as being at an “advanced stage,” evidence presented at trial was not conclusive about the exact target. One of the most likely targets, mentioned on a cellphone used by Mr. Abaaoud that was obtained by the prosecutor in the Verviers case, was the Zaventem airport, Judge Pierre Hendrickx said in his verdict. He said a rough sketch found on one of the smartphones used by Mr. Abaaoud showed drawings of the arrival hall of an airport with the name Zaventem written nearby and a man pushing a trolley with the word “bomb” on it. The airport and a Brussels metro station were attacked about 14 months later, and 32 people were killed by a related terrorist network also connected to Mr. Abaaoud. The Belgian police interrupted the plot on the evening of Jan. 15, 2015, when they knocked on the door of a Verviers apartment. A gunfight broke out, and two of the three men in the apartment were killed the third, Marouane El Bali, was wounded. He was sentenced on Tuesday to 16 years in prison. Among the items found in the apartment were ingredients for making the explosive TATP, semiautomatic weapons, 200 to 300 bullets and several police uniforms, perhaps suggesting that the   attackers were planning to use the uniforms as a disguise. The   trial painted the group of defendants as an informal network of friends and acquaintances, brought together in some cases by their upbringing in heavily migrant neighborhoods of Brussels and Paris, and in others by criminal connections. A few came from farther away and were brought in to assist because they had criminal experience, for example in stealing cars and forging documents, prosecutors said. Over all, however, many came across as adolescents playing at being terrorists. They thought up nicknames for one another  —   including Mustache, the Big One, Obama and Pashtun. They took photos of one another for fun. There are snapshots of Mr. Abaaoud in front of tourist sites in Athens, Judge Hendrickx said during the trial, and another photo of Mr. Abaaoud reclining in a large armchair. The judge referred to it as a “Father Christmas” chair, with “what looks like a cucumber masque” on Mr. Abaaoud’s face. Much of the planning and at least two of the apartments used as safe houses were in Athens. They were rented by Omar Damache, one of the Verviers defendants, who was sentenced to eight years. Mr. Abaaoud used them during at least one and possibly more of his journeys between Belgium and Syria, according to the prosecution. Mr. Damache, who did not seem to have known much about Mr. Abaaoud’s intentions, had in his possession crucial evidence when the Greek police detained him, prosecutors said. Among the items were 14 cellphones, including three used by Mr. Abaaoud two tablets a computer and seven French identification cards.