ROME  —   A homeless man was detained on Tuesday in connection with the death of a    student from Wisconsin who disappeared just hours after he landed in Rome, the Italian authorities said. The man, Massimo Galioto, 40, of Rome is suspected of involvement in what the police in Rome said was the murder of Beau Solomon, a visiting student from the University of   who was found in the Tiber River on Monday with a head wound and blood on his shirt. Mr. Solomon disappeared after going to a pub Thursday night, not long after he arrived in the city for a summer program at John Cabot University, an American school in central Rome. The university said in a statement that Mr. Solomon’s roommate, who has not been identified, was with him at a pub in Trastevere, an area near the university known for its night life, and that he lost contact with him around 1 a. m. He alerted administrators at the university when Mr. Solomon failed to appear at orientation the next morning, it said. More than $1, 700 was charged to Mr. Solomon’s credit card after he disappeared, according to Italian news reports, including a large purchase on Friday in a Milan store, about 350 miles north of Rome. His cellphone is missing. Mr. Solomon’s body was found about 2½ miles south of the Garibaldi Bridge, roughly 2, 000 feet from the pub where he left his friends. The crowds in the area are even larger at this time of year because of a summer fair along the river, where food and goods are sold from stalls along the waterfront. A picture of a smiling Mr. Solomon in his football uniform dominated the front pages of many papers on Tuesday, and representatives of the University of Wisconsin and John Cabot University expressed their condolences. “Beau Solomon was a bright and caring young man who lived the Wisconsin Idea. All of us at   are greatly saddened by this loss,” Rebecca Blank, chancellor of the University of   wrote on Twitter. Soldiers and police officers are regularly stationed near the Piazza Trilussa, which gives access to the cobblestones and labyrinthlike streets of Trastevere. But this is not the first time an American student has encountered trouble in Rome, where alcohol can be easily obtained in bars, restaurants and supermarkets, even for those under 21. Last year, an American student was raped in a bathroom of a bar in the area. In 2013, after a night of drinking, an American student died as he fell from a bridge on the river, and another American student was found dead near the train tracks of a tunnel after leaving a bar the next year.