One evening in February, a man entering the subway at Barclays Center in Brooklyn was detained by the police for using a discounted student MetroCard  —   his daughter’s, it turned out. It was, he would say later, a stupid mistake that would lead to absurd consequences: The man, Blerim Skoro, a citizen of Kosovo, now sits in jail, facing potential deportation. But Mr. Skoro was no mere hapless  . “I was working for U. S. government,” he told a United States asylum officer in May, explaining his past life overseas and why he was now afraid of being sent back to Kosovo, a transcript shows. “I was trained for Washington. I was a spy. ” A native of the old Yugoslavia, Mr. Skoro, 45, appears to have lived a remarkable, if hidden, life that sprang from his arrest in 2000 on federal drug charges he began cooperating with prosecutors in his case and others, pleaded guilty and received a   sentence. After Sept. 11, 2001, he says in an affidavit, he became a prison informer for the Federal Bureau of Investigation, providing leads on fellow inmates with terrorist ties. After completing his sentence, he said, he was deported in 2007, but agreed to continue working for the government overseas. He says he posed as a willing operative and insinuated himself with members of Al Qaeda in the Balkans, secretly supplying the Central Intelligence Agency with information about plots and the people behind them. After the C. I. A. cut ties with him in 2010, he says, he eventually returned to the United States via Canada  —   illegally, he admits  —   and last year, with the help of a lawyer, met separately with the F. B. I. and counterterrorism officials with the New York Police Department, trying unsuccessfully to offer clandestine assistance in the fight against the Islamic State. Spy stories, by their nature, are often unverifiable, and government officials are typically loath to discuss such accounts. Indeed, a bureau spokesman, asked about Mr. Skoro, said he could not “confirm or deny” any part of the story. The C. I. A. the Police Department and the United States attorney’s office in Brooklyn also declined to comment. Mr. Skoro, in several hours of interviews at the Bergen County Jail in northern New Jersey and by phone, showed a deep command of people, places and other facts, and said his information was corroborated through videos, photographs and copies of texts he had given his lawyers. Mr. Skoro, whose wife and three children, all American citizens, live in New York City, said he still had much to offer the authorities. “I dealt with the most ruthless, dangerous terrorists in Balkans and Middle East,” he said. Mr. Skoro, a practicing Muslim, said others of his faith should be willing to covertly assist in the fight against ISIS. But he suggested that his detention would send the opposite message. Muslims, he said, will ask, “How we can trust our government when you’re going to put the spies in the prison?” Mr. Skoro first entered the United States in 1994. In the 2000 drug importation case that led to his cooperation with the government, he transported at least 14 kilograms of heroin and cocaine and laundered about $670, 000 in drug proceeds, the judge said at his sentencing. Prosecutors recommended leniency, citing his assistance and noting he had provided significant intelligence about drug traffickers in the city’s Albanian community. Mr. Skoro says the F. B. I. promised he would be allowed to stay in the country after serving his sentence and acting as a prison informer. But after being told in 2007 that he would be deported, he said he left his bitterness behind and agreed to work for the agency abroad. He received training in a safe house in Macedonia, and took on assignments in Pakistan, the Balkans, Syria and elsewhere, he said, posing as a jihadist who had become radicalized in prison. “Nobody was ever suspicious of me,” he said. “I was  . ” In Egypt, Mr. Skoro says in his affidavit, he befriended Betim Kaziu, a man who later told him of his plans to attack United States troops stationed in Kosovo, and had even recorded a martyrdom video. Mr. Skoro said he passed the information to the C. I. A. and Mr. Kaziu was later arrested, tried and convicted in Brooklyn and sentenced to 27 years. In 2010, Mr. Skoro says, he was shot and wounded on the way to a C. I. A. debriefing in Macedonia. He managed to escape, but the agency ended the relationship, paying him the equivalent of about $35, 000 to $40, 000 in euros, he said. The next year, while seeking asylum in Canada, Mr. Skoro was interviewed by the journalist Vincent Larouche for the online publication Rue Frontenac. The article, titled “The Fugitive With 1, 000 Secrets,” referred to him by the pseudonym Abu it characterized his story as “convincing” but noted that much of his account could not be confirmed. Aspects of his story also emerged in a 2015 court decision in Canada, related to an asylum request he had made that used his actual name, and cited his claim to have been a C. I. A. spy who had infiltrated Islamic terror cells. Stéphane Handfield, a Montreal lawyer who represented Mr. Skoro in Canada, said his asylum request was rejected in 2013, and a request to a federal court  for review was dismissed in 2015. But Mr. Skoro had already slipped into the United States illegally in November 2014. In New York, he says, he made contact with several lawyers who said recently that they found his story to be credible. One, Rene A. Kathawala, who leads the pro bono practice at Orrick, Herrington  Sutcliff, said his firm would do everything possible to assist Mr. Skoro and his immigration lawyer, Irwin Berowitz, in his deportation case. Mr. Berowitz said an asylum officer who recently interviewed Mr. Skoro found him credible and that he had established a “reasonable fear of persecution” if deported to Kosovo. That finding allowed the case to be sent to an immigration judge for further proceedings, Mr. Berowitz said. Mr. Skoro was also referred to Joshua L. Dratel, a lawyer who has developed a national security practice. Mr. Skoro approached him in April 2015, intent on providing “proactive undercover assistance to law enforcement” with respect to ISIS, Mr. Dratel said in a declaration that is also part of the immigration case. Mr. Skoro initially told Mr. Dratel that he would be receiving a call from an American official, who would refer to Mr. Skoro by a code name, the declaration says. Mr. Dratel said he received such a call. The caller asked whether Mr. Skoro was overseas, in which case he could “use him. ” But if he was in the United States, he was “off limits,” the caller said. When Mr. Dratel said Mr. Skoro was in the United States, the caller gave Mr. Dratel the name and number of a senior F. B. I. counterterrorism official in Washington. In June 2015, Mr. Dratel said, Mr. Skoro eventually met at his office with two F. B. I. agents one agent, Mr. Dratel recalled, said the C. I. A. had confirmed to the bureau that Mr. Skoro had a former relationship with the agency. In November, Mr. Dratel arranged for Mr. Skoro to meet with New York police officials, including John J. Miller, the deputy commissioner for intelligence and counterterrorism. But the bureau and the police ultimately declined to use Mr. Skoro. One senior government official said that officials who met with Mr. Skoro had questioned his reliability. The official declined to be identified because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the case. Jack Cloonan, a retired F. B. I. counterterrorism agent who was involved in the bureau’s investigation of Al Qaeda in the 1990s, said he had never heard of Mr. Skoro and had no idea if his claims were authentic. But he said the case underscored how important it was for the government to have someone who was Muslim and operational who could carry out acts that the intelligence agencies need. Mr. Cloonan also surmised that Mr. Skoro might have been considered unusable by the authorities because his identity had been divulged in Canada, or because there were questions about whether he could be trusted. But Mr. Cloonan said he also understood why officials would have wanted to meet with him. “There’s a clear indication that everybody is scrambling,” Mr. Cloonan said. “Everyone is trying to get information, because we don’t know if there’s going to be another attack on the homeland. ” After Mr. Skoro’s illegal   arrest in March, he was jailed without bond after federal prosecutors in Brooklyn argued he might flee. But on March 23, one day after ISIS’ deadly attacks in Brussels, a prosecutor called Mr. Dratel and said the government was now interested in meeting with Mr. Skoro to determine whether he could be of assistance. Mr. Dratel said he met with prosecutors alone, outlining what his client knew and providing copies of screen shots of certain text messages between Mr. Skoro and a purported ISIS operative in Syria. Two days later, the government, without elaboration, moved to dismiss Mr. Skoro’s illegal   charge. The prosecutors did not pursue a meeting with him directly, Mr. Dratel said. He was then moved into immigration custody, where he remains today.