WARSAW  —   President Obama expressed optimism on Saturday that the killings of young black men and white police officers this week have not left the United States as racially divided as it was during the strife and riots that racked the country in the 1960s. Speaking in Warsaw at the conclusion of a security summit meeting with European leaders, Mr. Obama said the United States had suffered “a tough week,” but he pledged to try to build upon good will among protesters and police officers alike. “There is sorrow, there is anger, there is confusion about next steps,” Mr. Obama said at the start of a news conference. “But there is unity in recognizing that this is not how we want our communities to operate. This is not who we want to be as Americans. ” The president said he would visit Dallas early next week to pay homage to the police officers who were killed there. And he said he would invite activists, police officials and others to the White House next week to seek “constructive actions that are actually going to make a difference. ” Mr. Obama acknowledged that the killings had unleashed some harsh speech, and he urged people of all points of view to be careful in how they express their opinions. But he said he believed that most people were simply saddened by the lives lost. “When we start suggesting that somehow there is this enormous polarization and we’re back to the situation in the 1960s  —   that’s just not true,” Mr. Obama said. “You’re not seeing riots, and you’re not seeing police going after people who are protesting peacefully. ” Asked to comment on how he will be remembered for dealing with racial issues, Mr. Obama said he would prefer to leave that question to historians. But he then continued to discuss, with some emotion, how he has sought to confront the divisive issue. He said he has tried to speak honestly about race in ways that he hoped would help people reach solutions. “More than anything, what I hope is that my voice has tried to get all of us as Americans to understand the difficult legacy of race,” Mr. Obama said. “If my voice has been true, and positive, then my hope would be that it may not fix everything right away, but it surfaces problems, it frames them, it allows us to wrestle with these issues,” he added. “I’d like to think that, as best as I could, I have been true in speaking about these issues. ” Mr. Obama deflected questions about the motives of the man who shot the police officers in Dallas. But he said whatever the motive might have been, people should not assume that the gunman speaks for Americans protesting police killings or anyone else. He said that the white individual who is charged in the shooting of nine black parishioners in South Carolina did not represent the views of all white Americans. And Mr. Obama said that people should not make the assumption that a “troubled Muslim individual” who engages in a shooting represents all Muslims. “I think the danger is that we somehow suggest that the act of a troubled individual speaks to some larger political statement across the country,” he said. “It doesn’t. ” The president also defended his mention of the need for new gun laws in the hours after the shooting in Dallas. He said the easy availability of guns in America was “a contributing factor” to the country’s gun violence. Critics have charged that Mr. Obama should not have raised what they say is a political issue in the moments after the shooting, calling it an insult to the memory of those killed and to the families of the dead who were still in the early stages of mourning. The president rejected that accusation and vowed to continue talking about the issue. “Part of what’s creating tensions between communities and police is the fact that police have a really difficult time in communities where they know guns are everywhere,” Mr. Obama said. “I’m not going to stop talking about it. ” The president noted that violent crime in the United States is significantly lower now than it has been in decades. But he acknowledged that people’s fears are understandable, especially in the wake of a terrorist attack or a gruesome killing captured on video. “We should never be satisfied when any innocent person is killed,” he said, “but that is not something that should be driving our anxieties, relative to where we have been in the past. ”