Lawyers for the Fox News chairman Roger Ailes filed a motion on Friday arguing that the sexual harassment lawsuit filed against him by a former anchor, Gretchen Carlson, should be moved from a New Jersey Superior Court into federal court and submitted for arbitration. Mr. Ailes’s lawyers said Ms. Carlson’s suit, which they called a “   campaign,” was a breach of her contract. The contract, they said, included a confidentiality agreement stipulating that any disputes should first go into arbitration. The motion was filed on Friday in a federal court in Newark. The motion also contends that the case should not be heard in a New Jersey Superior Court since Mr. Ailes maintains that his primary residence is in Garrison, N. Y. not in New Jersey, as the lawsuit said. Ms. Carlson lives in Connecticut. “Gretchen Carlson had an arbitration clause in her contract, stating that any employment dispute regarding her employment at Fox News must be done via confidential arbitration,” Barry Asen, Mr. Ailes’s lawyer, said in a statement. “Because Ms. Carlson’s lawsuit violated the arbitration clause, a motion was filed in federal court to have the case arbitrated. The federal court is the proper court to decide the motion because Ms. Carlson’s primary residence is in Connecticut and Mr. Ailes’s primary residence is in New York. ” Ms. Carlson’s lawyers said Mr. Ailes was trying to force the case into a secret proceeding, and away from the public spotlight of a trial. “Gretchen never agreed to arbitrate anything with Mr. Ailes, and the contract on which he relies does not mention him and is not signed by him,” her lawyers, Nancy Erika Smith and Martin Hyman, said in a statement. “Gretchen intends to fight for her right to a public jury trial, a right protected by the discrimination laws and our Constitution. ’’ Ms. Carlson did not name Fox News in the lawsuit. Mr. Ailes is the only defendant. In her lawsuit, which was filed on Wednesday, Ms. Carlson argued that she was fired from her weekday afternoon show on Fox News when she rebuffed sexual advances from Mr. Ailes, and that she was a victim of sexual harassment both from him and the “Fox and Friends” host Steve Doocy. The suit sent shock waves throughout the media industry since Ms. Carlson, 50, was a prominent Fox News personality and an   veteran of the network, and Mr. Ailes, 76, is one of the most powerful men in television news. Mr. Ailes emphatically denied the charges in the suit and said Ms. Carlson’s contract was not renewed because of poor ratings. Fox News’s parent company, 21st Century Fox, said on Wednesday that it is conducting an internal review of the matter.