MADRID  —   President Obama on Sunday urged those protesting the recent shootings of black men by police officers to avoid inflammatory words and actions, which he said would worsen tensions and set back their cause. “Whenever those of us who are concerned about fairness in the criminal justice system attack police officers, you are doing a disservice to the cause,” said Mr. Obama, speaking in Spain after a meeting with the country’s interim prime minister, Mariano Rajoy. Mr. Obama’s plea for a reasoned debate came on the last day of a trip to Spain and Poland. His visit was overshadowed, and abbreviated, by the wave of grief and anger convulsing the United States after the police shootings of black men in Louisiana and Minnesota, and the killing of five police officers by a black gunman in Dallas. On Sunday, hours before he was to fly home a day earlier than planned, Mr. Obama found himself once again addressing this national tragedy, this time while sitting next to a European leader who was eager to talk about Spain’s close ties to the United States. One of the United States’ great virtues, Mr. Obama said, is its openness to protest and efforts to speak truth to power. While that process is often messy, he warned that harsh language would drive people on opposing sides to their corners, hardening positions and stalling a difficult but necessary debate over racial bias in the criminal justice system. Mr. Obama said the Black Lives Matter movement had grown out of a tradition that dated to the abolitionist movement, the women’s suffrage campaign and the protests against the war in Vietnam. In protest movements, he said, “there’s always going to be some folks who say things that are stupid or imprudent or   or are harsh. ” While Mr. Obama said it was unfair to characterize an entire movement by a few dissonant voices, he said inflammatory words could hinder legitimate efforts to reform the justice system. “Even rhetorically,” Mr. Obama said, “if we paint police officers with a broad brush  —   without recognizing that the vast majority of police officers are doing a really good job and are trying to protect people, and do so fairly and without racial bias  —   if the rhetoric does not recognize that, then we’re going to lose allies in the reform process. ” Likewise, he urged police organizations to treat protesters respectfully and to treat their grievances seriously. He repeated an observation he made after arriving in Poland on Friday: that reliable statistics prove there is bias in the criminal justice system. A respectful debate, Mr. Obama said, is “what’s going to ultimately help make the job of being a cop a lot safer. ” Mr. Obama also pledged again to bring together political leaders, civil rights advocates and law enforcement officials to try to devise solutions to this problem. He plans to travel on Tuesday to Dallas, where he will take part in an interfaith memorial service. “I’d like all sides to listen to each other,” he said. Mr. Obama’s secretary of homeland security, Jeh Johnson, echoed that message on Sunday as he appeared in a series of joint television interviews alongside New York City Police Commissioner William J. Bratton. Addressing the anxieties of Americans shaken by the shootings last week, Mr. Johnson said that it was “a time for healing,” but also a time to redouble efforts to build bridges between law enforcement and the communities they serve. “It’s a time to come together, to heal, to mourn, but to remember that the shooter is not reflective of the larger movement to bring about change that was out in Dallas to peaceably demonstrate,” Mr. Johnson said on CBS’s “Face the Nation. ” “And those who engage in excessive force in the law enforcement community are not reflective of the larger law enforcement community. ” Mr. Johnson strongly rejected the suggestion made by some critics that Mr. Obama and his administration had helped incite violence against the police by supporting Black Lives Matter activists. He reiterated in personal terms the legitimacy of the activists’ concerns while pledging continued federal support for local law enforcement. “Well, I’ve obviously got some experience with this as a parent and as somebody who’s been around,” Mr. Johnson said on CNN’s “State of the Union. ” “I’m 59 years old now,” he said, “and I’ve had my share of unpleasant encounters with law enforcement when I was much younger. ” Pressed for more details of those experiences, Mr. Johnson largely demurred, saying, “Well, you know, the type of road encounters that others have talked about. ” “But,” he added, “they do not reflect the actions of law enforcement in general. ”