 (CNN) Here’s a look at the NBA   Game. The   game caps off   Weekend.   Weekend includes the Slam Dunk contest, the Three Point Shootout and the Rookie Challenge.  February 19, 2017   The 66th NBA   Game takes place in New Orleans. The Western Conference defeats the Eastern Conference,  . February 14, 2016   The NBA   Game is played in Toronto. The Western Conference defeats the Eastern Conference,  . This is the highest scoring game in   history. The Eastern Conference has won 37   Games, and the Western Conference has won 29. 2017:Eastern Conference Roster:Head Coach: Brad Stevens (Boston Celtics) Starters:LeBron James (Cleveland Cavaliers)   ForwardGiannis Antetokounmpo (Milwaukee Bucks)   ForwardJimmy Butler (Chicago Bulls)   ForwardDeMar DeRozan (Toronto Raptors)   Guard Kyrie Irving (Cleveland Cavaliers)   Guard, Western Conference Roster:Head Coach: Steve Kerr (Golden State Warriors) Starters:Anthony Davis (New Orleans Pelicans)   ForwardKevin Durant (Golden State Warriors)   ForwardKawhi Leonard (San Antonio Spurs)   ForwardStephen Curry (Golden State Warriors)   GuardJames Harden (Houston Rockets)   Guard, History:March 2, 1951   The first   game takes place at the Boston Garden. The East wins  . Ed Macauley is named the MVP. 1976   The Slam Dunk Contest debuts during halftime of the   game, laying the foundation for the     Weekend. Julius Erving is named the winner. 1977   The first   game played after the merger of the American Basketball Association and the National Basketball Association. The East wins  . Julius Erving is named MVP. 1992   Months after announcing that he is HIV positive and despite not playing all season, Earvin ”Magic” Johnson is voted into the   game. He is also named MVP. February 26, 2012   Kobe Bryant surpasses Michael Jordan (262 points) to become the   career scoring leader (271 points). July 22, 2016   The NBA announces that they are moving the 2017   Game from Charlotte, North Carolina, because of state legislation passed in March which limits   protections for LGBT people and demands that transgender people use the bathroom according to the gender on their birth certificate. May 24, 2017   The NBA announces the 2019   Game will be played in Charlotte, citing the partial repeal of the   bathroom bill,   as the reason for the change. Selection Process:Fans around the world vote for the starters for each team. The 30 head coaches vote for the remaining members of the   teams in their respective conferences. Coaches must vote for seven players in order of preference but are not allowed to vote for players from their team. The selections must include two guards, two forwards and a center. Two other players are chosen regardless of position. If any player cannot participate in the   game, the NBA Commissioner will select a replacement after the coaches select reserves.  Head coaches for the East and West   teams are based on the teams with the best winning percentage in each conference following the Sunday games played two weeks prior to the NBA   Game.