Three police officers were shot dead, and three others were wounded, in Baton Rouge, La. on Sunday morning. The gunman was killed, the authorities said. The area where the shooting took place has been the scene of protests in the weeks since the police shooting of Alton B. Sterling on July 5. • Around 8:40 a. m. on Sunday, the police in Baton Rouge responded to a report of a man with a gun dressed in black walking near the Hammond Aire Plaza shopping center on Airline Highway. The confrontation lasted less than 10 minutes, officials said. • The slain officers were identified as Montrell L. Jackson, 32, and Matthew Gerald, 41, of the Baton Rouge Police Department and Brad Garafola, 45, an East Baton Rouge Parish sheriff’s deputy. • The hospitalized officers are Nicholas Tullier, 41, a sheriff’s deputy who was in critical condition on Monday Bruce Simmons, 51, a sheriff’s deputy who underwent surgery for wounds that were not   and an unidentified Baton Rouge police officer, 41, who also had injuries that were not  . • The gunman was identified by the authorities as Gavin Long of Kansas City, Mo. Mr. Long, an   was a former Marine who had served from 2005 to 2010, and he had been deployed to Iraq in 2008, according to military records. He had received a national defense service medal and a reward for good conduct. • Mr. Long is believed to have been the only gunman, the police in Baton Rouge said at a news conference, despite earlier reports of two others being at large. On Monday, the state police said Mr. Long had set out to ambush the officers. • A video on a site registered under the name of the gunman, Gavin Long, urges a bloody response to police killings of black men. • President Obama called for restraint at a time of extraordinary tension. “This has happened far too often,” he said at the White House on Sunday afternoon. “We don’t need inflammatory rhetoric. We don’t need careless accusations thrown around to score political points or advance an agenda. We need to temper our words and open our hearts, all of us. ”