PARIS  —   France, still reeling from the attack on Thursday in the southern coastal city of Nice that killed 84 people, observed its second of three days of national mourning on Sunday, as the French police held three more people in connection with the assault, according to news reports. The nation has been left wondering whether the attack, in which a Tunisian man plowed a   refrigerated truck through crowds gathered for fireworks on Bastille Day, could have been avoided  —   or whether it must adjust to a harsh new reality. On Saturday, the Islamic State claimed responsibility for the assault, calling the driver, Mohamed Lahouaiej Bouhlel, its “soldier. ” But no evidence has emerged so far that Mr. Lahouaiej Bouhlel, 31, a delivery truck driver living in Nice, was in contact with the Islamic State, or that he was exposed to its propaganda. A man and a woman were arrested Sunday morning, French news media reported, and another man was detained later on Sunday, according to Agence  . None were identified, although some reports said that the man and woman were an Albanian couple, and that the man was suspected of providing Mr. Lahouaiej Bouhlel with the automatic pistol he used on the night of the attack. Four other people had been taken in for questioning on Friday and Saturday. Mr. Lahouaiej Bouhlel’s estranged wife, who had also been taken in for questioning, was released without charges on Sunday. Her lawyer,   Garino, told the BFM TV news channel that Mr. Lahouaiej Bouhlel was physically violent with her and other members of the family. She eventually threw him out and was no longer in touch with him, Mr. Garino added. Although they have not put forth specific evidence, French officials say Mr. Lahouaiej Bouhlel appeared to have taken the path to extremism very shortly before the attack. In an interview published on Sunday in the Journal du Dimanche newspaper, the French prime minister, Manuel Valls, said the kind of terrorism seen in Nice was “hard to anticipate,” noting that the killer had “radicalized very quickly. ” “Daesh provides unbalanced individuals with an ideological kit that gives their acts meaning,” Mr. Valls said, using an Arabic acronym for the Islamic State. “The investigation will have to prove it, but that was probably the case for the attack in Nice. ” There were reports on Sunday that Mr. Lahouaiej Bouhlel had spent time researching his route on the waterfront promenade where the attack unfolded, as he was caught on surveillance cameras driving the truck in the area on Tuesday and Wednesday. Agence   and other French news media, quoting anonymous police officials, also reported on Sunday that Mr. Lahouaiej Bouhlel had sent a text message shortly before the attack in which he appeared to ask for more weapons, but it was unclear whom the message had been for and what exactly it had said. Mr. Lahouaiej Bouhlel used an automatic pistol to shoot at the police officers who tried to stop him on the promenade several fake weapons were also found in his truck after he was fatally shot. On Sunday, people continued to gather in Nice and in many other French cities to hold minutes of silence or to commemorate the victims. In Paris, there was a Mass at the Cathedral of   on Sunday evening. The Paris prosecutor’s office said in a statement on Sunday that 49 people hurt in the attack remained in critical condition, 18 of them fighting for their lives. The total number of injured was 256, down from a figure provided on Saturday by the Health Ministry. The prosecutor’s office also said that the French authorities had sped up the process to identify the dead, but that only 35 had been formally identified so far. At least 10 children were killed and 35 hurt. Families and tourists had gathered on the waterfront on Thursday evening to watch fireworks celebrating Bastille Day.