On a Sunday morning in early June, Senator Mark Kirk rolled into an uptown Chicago bar in his wheelchair to take part in the city’s 47th annual L. G. B. T. Pride Parade, wearing a red polo shirt, charcoal khakis and the abashed   of a    man who has already assessed his long odds of blending in. He hoisted himself up and made his way into the crowd, leaning on the cane he has used since suffering a severe stroke four years ago. A few young people wearing robin’  blue Equality Illinois   approached him. They shook his hand and thanked him for being one of the few Republican senators to sponsor the Equality Act, which would extend the Civil Rights Act of 1964 to prohibit discrimination against L. G. B. T. people. The encounters tended to be brief, because even in the most favorable circumstances Kirk has always been a somewhat awkward conversationalist. Crowded up against a   woman wearing a rainbow tutu, he offered: “My friend has a    granddaughter who wears nothing but tutus. It’d be good to get her one of those. Good for, er, political purposes. ” On his way out the door, Kirk found his path impeded by another   politician: Representative Tammy Duckworth, his Democratic opponent in November’s election, who lost both of her legs to a grenade as an Army helicopter pilot during the Iraq war. The two wincingly shook hands  —   “Whenever you run into your opponent,” he told me later, “there’s always that fake smile”  —   but said nothing. Out on North Broadway, where the festivities were about to begin, Kirk climbed into the gray Mustang convertible that would ferry him through the parade. Before long, Duckworth materialized nearby. The    congresswoman wore a       several beaded necklaces and a halo of flowers in her hair. “Woo hoo!” she hollered as onlookers called out her name. Meanwhile Kirk  —   a man who is palpably of, by and for the northern suburbs of Chicago  —   sat in the passenger seat of the Mustang and cast a pensive gaze at the gray clouds gathering overhead. Kirk is refreshingly unvarnished as senators go and did not bother pretending to be in the parading spirit. Less than four months before Election Day, the   senator’s own polls have him 3 points behind Duckworth. More than a year ago, Beltway odds makers were already rating Kirk as one of the likeliest to lose among the senators up for   in 2016. Illinois is a resolutely blue state that becomes even more so in a presidential cycle, when black and Hispanic turnout in the Chicago area is especially high the last Republican from the state to hold a United States Senate seat for more than one term was Charles Percy, who left office in 1985. Although Kirk was a congressman for a full decade before winning in 2010 the Senate seat once held by Barack Obama, to this day he lacks a national or even statewide profile. And all of this was before a certain real estate tycoon decided to run for president. In a more ordinary presidential election year, a vulnerable senator like Kirk would be inclined to look to the top of the ticket for campaign support. But what happens when that position is occupied by Donald Trump  —   a candidate who has proposed banning Muslim immigration, has made a seemingly endless series of statements offensive to Hispanics, Jews, blacks and women and, according to Gallup polls, currently enjoys a favorable rating (31 percent) not seen since the nadir of Jimmy Carter’s presidency? The   ticket has prompted gleeful Democrats to coalesce around a   message that will tie every Republican office seeker to the nominee. Meanwhile, Republican leaders like Speaker Paul Ryan and the 2012 presidential candidate, Mitt Romney, have gone to the extreme of repeatedly condemning the behavior of their party’s   implicitly urging Republican candidates to do whatever is necessary to avoid an Election Day apocalypse. The friction between the nominee and his party became jarringly apparent during a   meeting at the Capitol Hill Club on July 7 between Trump and 41 Republican senators. A few of them accused Trump of jeopardizing the party’s prospects in November Trump fired back with insults, labeling Kirk  —   who was not present but has publicly criticized Trump  —   a “loser. ” The meeting was especially charged given the acute vulnerability of the   Senate. The party currently holds a   majority. Of the 34 seats up for   this year, 24 are occupied by Republicans. Six of those, including Kirk’s, are in states to which the Republicans managed to lay claim in the Tea Party tsunami of 2010, but that President Obama won two years later. If Hillary Clinton wins the presidency, the Democrats need to retake only four of those six to control the Senate (because the vice president gets a Senate vote in the event of a tie). Presidential election years have increasingly brought out   nonwhite voters, so 2016 was sure to be an unpleasant one for Kirk and his Republican colleagues regardless. With Trump, who has disparaged, threatened or otherwise offended many of those same voters in the past year, their collective migraine has become a yearlong cluster headache. “I have to respect the will of the voters,” Kirk said, referring to Trump’s primary victories. “If you win the election, you won the election. ” Still, he added, “In this case, I do disagree with the decision the voters made. ” Last September, as the idea that the Trump candidacy was something more than an ephemeral novelty began to sink in, Ward Baker, the executive director of the National Republican Senatorial Committee, sent a memo to his senior staff. “Let’s face facts,” Baker wrote. “Trump says what’s on his mind, and that’s a problem. Our candidates will have to spend full time defending him or condemning him if that continues. And that’s a place we never, ever want to be. ” Baker’s   memo, which was leaked to The Washington Post, instructed candidates to “run your own race” and to “show your independence” from the man he described as a “mis guided missile”  —   but at the same time, he cautioned, be mindful of the fact that “Trump has connected with voters on issues like trade with China and America’s broken borders. ” Even eight months before Trump effect ively claimed the nomination, Baker grasped the uniquely fraught terrain the party’s unexpected   had laid out before the Republicans who would be sharing a ticket with him in November. The connection between presidential nominees and     candidates is historically clear, and has become more so as the country has become more polarized. That’s especially the case when it comes to the Senate. With (for the most part) increasing frequency since 1913  —   the year the 17th Amendment was passed, designating that senators would be elected by popular vote rather than by state legislatures  —   voters have tended to elect Senate candidates who belong to the same party as the presidential candidate they favor. Both parties still hold close the memories of the exceptional examples of this phenomenon, the bonanza years and the catastrophes. In 1980, Ronald Reagan’s victory over Carter was the crest of a tidal wave that also gave Republicans 12 Senate seats and control over the upper chamber for the first time in almost three decades. In 1964, Barry Goldwater’s support for “extremism in the defense of liberty” cost Republicans   of both the Senate and the House. But Trump presents a much more complex weather system for his   to navigate than either of these cases. His views are not wedded to a coherent ideological movement within his party (as Goldwater’s were) nor is his unpopularity a simple judgment on his record (as Carter’s was). Instead, Trump is a sui generis figure who must be accepted or rejected on his own terms, not artfully hedged around in the way politicians are accustomed to doing. And while Trump was undoubtedly the most popular Republican primary contestant in a field of 17, it’s still not clear how many of his opponents’ supporters will vote for their party’s pick on Election Day. For an   Republican senator this fall, to back away from Trump is, by extension, to snub his millions of   loyalists, the one group of party voters that is sure to show up on Nov. 8. But to go   for Trump is to take leave of your Republican bona fides and embrace life as a Trump    —   a gamble that not a single Republican senator up for   this fall appears to have the stomach for. None of this seems to overly concern Trump. When I asked him recently whether the party’s maintaining its majority in the Senate meant anything to him, he replied: “Well, I’d like them to do that. But I don’t mind being a free agent, either. ” Trump has shown similarly little interest in helping his party’s committees build the sort of war chests typically required in a campaign year. After winning the presidential nomination on a shoestring budget and with fewer paid staff members than the average candidate for governor, he has been visibly reluctant to help build much in the way of national campaign infrastructure, sending a clear message to his fellow Republicans: This fall, you’re on your own. As Ryan Williams, a strategist with the 2012 Romney presidential campaign, told me: “Traditionally, the nominee has a robust campaign that absorbs the R. N. C. effort and works in tandem with the   campaigns. We did that with Romney in 2012. This time around, there’s a complete void at the presidential level. Trump’s trying to play a game of baseball and hasn’t put out an infield. ” In addition to Kirk, there are five Republican incumbents running in states that Obama won in 2012 whose fortunes are now lashed to those of the Trump campaign: Kelly Ayotte in New Hampshire, Ron Johnson in Wisconsin, Marco Rubio in Florida, Pat Toomey in Pennsylvania and Rob Portman in Ohio. In May, Ayotte offered her “support” for Trump, but a spokeswoman quickly clarified to reporters that Ayotte “hasn’t and isn’t planning to endorse anyone this cycle. ” Johnson supplied messaging advice to the Trump campaign during the Wisconsin primary in April and declared the day after Trump vanquished Ted Cruz on May 3 that “I am going to certainly endorse the Republican nominee. ” Two weeks later, however, Johnson ratcheted down his endorsement to   “support,” warily adding that he would “be concentrating on the areas of agreement with Mr. Trump. ” Rubio, meanwhile, has remained in a state of   torment ever since his drubbing in the presidential primaries. Before announcing that he would run again for the Senate, Rubio said that he would be “honored” to help his party’s nominee, but later hedged, saying he did not expect to speak at the Republican convention on Trump’s behalf  —   and finally declaring he would not attend the convention at all. “I think that the Senate needs to fulfill its role as a check and balance on the president, no matter who it is,” he said last month. This was clearly intended to suggest that, if   he would not blindly do the bidding of a President Trump  —   a notion that has prompted belittlement from Rubio’s Democratic opponents. “What’s so funny about that premise is that Rubio’s the only Senate candidate we’re running against who has proven he’s ineffective at standing up to Donald Trump,” Sadie Weiner, the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee’s communications director, told me. Toomey and Portman, for their part, have both distanced themselves from, among other things, Trump’s claim that Gonzalo Curiel, the   federal judge who is presiding over a lawsuit against Trump University, would show bias against him on account of his being “Mexican. ” But denouncing and renouncing are two different things. Come November, both Portman and Toomey may need Trump  —   or rather, Trump’s voters. As Steven Law, the chief executive of the conservative “super PAC” American Crossroads, told me: “According to research we’ve seen, there were demonstrably voters in 2012 who stayed home in Pennsylvania and Ohio. Specifically, there were white   voters who were discouraged by the perception that Romney was a wealthy plutocrat. ” As evidenced by exit polls taken early in the primary season across the Rust Belt, Trump’s message of aggrievement has especially resonated with the voters that Law says Toomey and Portman cannot afford to alienate. Even comparably comfortable   incumbents like Richard Burr of North Carolina and Roy Blunt of Missouri are ahead by narrow enough margins that one more particularly incendiary Trump statement could plausibly spell defeat in November. John McCain, whose valor as a prisoner of war Trump has mocked (“I like people who weren’t captured,” Trump told an audience in Iowa last July) this year finds himself once again struggling to avoid a primary upset at the hands of a more conservative challenger he offered his    support of the nominee in May, saying of Trump’s supporters, “I think it would be foolish to ignore them. ” To donors at a private event (which was recorded and leaked to Politico) however, McCain acknowledged, “If Donald Trump is at the top of the ticket, here in Arizona, with over 30 percent of the vote being the Hispanic vote, no doubt that this may be the race of my life. ” Putting a brave face on it, some Republicans like Law insist that at the very least, Trump’s constituency is devoted enough to be counted on to show up to the polls in November. By contrast, they say, Clinton’s failure to earn the support of millennials (who went for her primary opponent, Bernie Sanders, by a staggering   margin) could result in a decline in   turnout that might swing some   races their way. In other words, the depth of Clinton’s support is as questionable as the breadth of Trump’s, or so goes the argument. As Law  —   whose American Crossroads has spawned an offshoot organization, One Nation, that has made large ad buys in the states with vulnerable Republican Senate seats  —   told me: “In our research, we’ve found that upward of 30 to 40 percent of voters currently have a preference but aren’t satisfied with that preference. So I think there’s risk on both sides. ” I asked Law if he thought the risks really were that comparable. After all, while Clinton’s current disapproval rate is a bleak 55 percent, Trump’s is 15 points worse. In a    Senate race, won’t the greater dislike of Trump make a difference? “At this stage of the game, I’m not sure you can say that,” Law replied. Of course, at this stage of the game, American Crossroads is investing huge amounts in such races, running ads that have plenty to say about Hillary Clinton and nothing about Donald Trump. ’u2009A handful of Republican senators, as a matter of principle or political prophylaxis or both, have completely disassociated themselves from their party’s nominee. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina has variously termed Trump a “  xenophobic religious bigot” and a “jackass. ” Jeff Flake of Arizona has urged his colleagues to withhold their endorsement of Trump “there are certain things you can’t do as a candidate,” he said on CBS’s “Face the Nation. ” Ben Sasse of Nebraska has described Trump’s attacks on Curiel as “the literal definition of racism” and has called for a   alternative. But Graham, Flake and Sasse aren’t up for   this year. Among the avowed Trump refuseniks, only Mark Kirk is. Kirk came by his opposition status belatedly. The former Naval intelligence officer is an unassuming centrist with an unfortunate knack for narrowly missing out on national attention. In April 2013, he became the second Republican senator to support   marriage, after Rob Portman (whose son is gay). Three months before that, Kirk was the first of his party’s senators to support   legislation with Senator Joe Manchin, a Democrat, after the Newtown massacre  —   but because Kirk’s standing with the National Rifle Association was already abysmal, Manchin sought out a more   Republican ally in Pat Toomey as a   for his bill. Still, Kirk is not without political acumen. He inveighed against Obamacare just enough to win in 2010, when Republicans largely succeeded in making House and Senate races into referendums on Obama’s legislative agenda. Six years later, Kirk took note of Trump’s ascent and fell in behind the presumptive nominee in March, though two different Kirk advisers described his support to me as “tepid” from the beginning. But, Kirk told me, he had trouble envisioning Trump as the kind of steady hand who could manage global crises the way President George Bush did during Kirk’s Navy days. “If it had been President Trump, I would have had problems,” he said. “Is he going to get angry? Is he going to start bombing?” Kirk saw his opening when Trump aired his views of Curiel. “After much consideration,“ Kirk said in a statement on June 7, “I have concluded that Donald Trump has not demonstrated the temperament necessary to assume the greatest office in the world. ” Since then, the senator has spent as much time denouncing Trump as he has Clinton. “I joke to Ben Sasse that if Trump wins, he’ll be my roommate at Gitmo,” he told me. Unendorsing Trump was perhaps a more politically viable option for Kirk than for his fellow endangered Republican senators. “I’m probably the only one around here who absolutely embraces the ” he said, referring to “moderate. ” And as the Crain’s Chicago Business columnist Rich Miller recently wrote, in Illinois “independent suburban women have been the deciding factor in just about every statewide race since 1990. ” Given Trump’s 70 percent disapproval rating among women over all, criticizing the nominee may prove not only useful to Kirk, but also  —   especially against a female opponent like Duckworth  —   imperative. Kirk’s campaign strategists have chosen to view Trump, in a     sort of way, as a perverse gift for their candidate. Every   outburst by Trump offers an opportunity for Kirk to hurl himself into the spotlight as a Trump denouncer. But as Duckworth’s deputy campaign manager, Matt McGrath, told me, “If the Kirk campaign is of the mind that having daily or weekly opportunities to condemn Donald Trump is going to win this election for him  —   well, good luck with that. ” The alternative is to somehow ignore the   presidential candidate in modern political history  —   an approach that every vulnerable Republican senator aside from Kirk has adopted. The preferred strategy is to keep their politics local, “talking to voters like they’re running for sheriff,” as Ward Baker, the National Republican Senatorial Committee’s executive director, put it to me. The exemplar of this “Mayberry R. F. D. ” strategy is Kelly Ayotte, New Hampshire’s   junior senator. Ayotte, like Kirk, won office in 2010 in what had recently been a swing state she now faces one of the Democratic Party’s top Senate recruits, the state’s sitting governor, Maggie Hassan. Ayotte has been a relentless presence in her state’s diners, farmer’s markets and   pageants this year. “In a close race like this one, I think that actual interaction with voters matters,” she told me in late June. We were sitting in Ayotte’s Senate office, where I had gone in hopes of finding out what it means to “support” but not “endorse” Trump. Although she entered politics as an apolitical state attorney general who had served in both Republican and Democratic administrations, Ayotte’s Senate victory in 2010 probably would not have occurred without the endorsement of Sarah Palin, who dubbed her the Granite Grizzly. Once in office, however, Ayotte quickly allied herself with establishment Republicans like McCain and Graham. Mitt Romney named her as a potential   candidate in the 2012 race, and as a   female legislator in a swing state she would very likely have fared similarly this year were the Republican nominee Rubio, Jeb Bush or someone other than Trump. When I asked the    former prosecutor to explain her position on the nominee, she offered a     sort of smile, then proceeded into a thicket of noncommittal verbiage. “Yeah, I think, um, that, I will  —   basically, the way I look at ‘support versus endorse’ is: I will be voting for him,” she began. “I obviously, when I endorse someone, I’m out campaigning, I’m endorsing and asking other people  —   people should vote their conscience in this election. That said, it doesn’t matter  —   it matters, but my point is, whoever wins, I’ll be working with them on things that’ll be good for New Hampshire and the country, and I’ll be in opposition to them on things that I think aren’t good for New Hampshire and the country. ” I asked if this meant she would not be campaigning with Trump when he showed up this fall to compete in her state. “You know,” she replied, “I’m going to be focused on getting my message out to New Hampshire voters. And that means being out there with New Hampshire voters. ” She added, “I don’t anticipate, really, campaigning with other folks. ” Ayotte’s quest to establish the appropriate distance from Trump is not purely a matter of political expedience. Since her arrival in Washington, the senator  —   who is married to an Iraq war veteran  —   has styled herself as a   specialist. In this arena, she said to me of Trump, “I have many disagreements with him,” before hastening to add, “I have more with the Democratic nominee. ” The     of Trump’s global vision  —   calls to “bomb the [expletive] out of ISIS” and to reintroduce waterboarding on the one hand, a general aversion to foreign intervention and historical alliances on the other  —   seems anathema to a    hawk like Ayotte. On these matters, her insistence to the contrary aside, the New Hampshire senator seems far more in sync with the former secretary of state than she does with the New York developer. Still, she has been willing to venture into Trump’s   zone on occasion, mocking Obama for “being politically correct about how we define our enemies” and describing his military strategy against ISIS as an electoral stunt. Ultimately, the Ayotte campaign’s objective is to avoid a   referendum altogether by advertising her practical skills as a bipartisan senator. Along these lines, Ayotte has made a point of emphasizing her support of the E. P. A. ’s Clean Power Plan, which seeks to address climate change by restricting   emissions. (When Ayotte first ran for Senate in 2010, she spoke of   climate change as an unproven theory. Since that time, she told me, “I’ve really looked at the issue and studied it further. ”) She also points to her vote for the Senate’s bipartisan   legislation in 2013  —   a position that ended her support from Palin, who called her a “ ”  —   and says that today, as she put it to me, “I want to be in the camp of solving the problem. ” Her campaign operatives also reminded me that Ayotte denounced Senator Ted Cruz last year for using the threat of a government shutdown as leverage for defunding Planned Parenthood  —   though this was really a tactical objection on her part, given that Ayotte has voted on six occasions to stop federal funding for the organization. Ayotte’s opponent, Hassan, intends to cite the incumbent’s votes against Planned Parenthood and her opposition to a hearing for Obama’s Supreme Court nominee, Merrick Garland, as among the reasons that she is out of step with New Hampshire voters. The looming presence of Trump amounts to a bonus for Hassan. As her campaign manager, Marc Goldberg, told me, “Trump will be just one part of this race  —   though maybe a significant part. ” Speaking of Ayotte, he said, “It will definitely make her life difficult on a    basis. ” On that point, Ayotte’s supporters reluctantly agree. “If we had Rubio or Jeb at the top of the ticket, I’m sure the Democrats would try to tie our candidate in New Hampshire to policies they deem unpopular,” says the former Romney strategist Ryan Williams. “The difference is that Trump goes beyond the pale with statements he makes on a daily basis. He seems not to care what effect it has on the other candidates. He seems not to understand the responsibility that comes with the mantle. ” Fifteen years after his landslide defeat, Barry Goldwater penned an autobiography that he titled “With No Apologies. ” The Arizona senator in fact harbored a few regrets  —   among them, that he had staked out an ideological opposition to the Civil Rights Act, and that his losing candidacy (which also brought down 36 House and two Senate seats) paved the way for the   four years later of Richard Nixon, whose Watergate scandal would bring dishonor to their party. But Goldwater held himself largely blameless for the outcome of the 1964 election. It was his own party’s fault, he asserted, for demonizing a conservative vision that would, 16 years later, be validated by Reagan. “By the time the convention opened,” he wrote of his fellow Republicans, “I had been branded as a fascist, a racist, a   warmonger, a nuclear madman and the candidate who couldn’t win. ” By the time the 2016 Republican convention opens in Cleveland this month, Trump will also have been branded  —   by fellow Republicans who now revere Goldwater as a movement godfather  —   as a racist madman who cannot win. Some of them may show up to Cleveland in hopes of staging a delegate upheaval and in that way thwarting Trump’s coronation. But many other party notables, like Ayotte and Kirk, have already found excuses not to attend the convention. Trump did not seem particularly concerned that he might be shunned or subverted at the convention when he spoke to me by phone one recent afternoon. “I have a lot of support from senators,” he insisted. “And then some of them are neutral. ” New Hampshire’s junior senator fell squarely in the latter category, he acknowledged: “Kelly Ayotte has been silent, more or less. Honestly, I don’t mind that she’s silent. ” Somewhat cryptically, he added, “We can both be silent, to be honest with you. ” As for Kirk, Trump said he had reason to believe that the Illinois senator’s distaste for him was feigned, but he would not share his evidence for the record. He reminded me that he had won both Kirk’s and Ayotte’s states during the primaries and predicted that he would repeat that feat in November. If the two senators felt it wise to separate themselves from their party’s leader, then Trump would support, if not endorse, the idea. “I want them to do what they need to do,” he said of the vulnerable senators. “It’s fine with me. It won’t hurt me. I think it’ll hurt them, frankly. ”