Twickenham, London (CNN) It was supposed to be their toughest test of this year’s Six Nations, a   grueling encounter against their   oldest of enemies. Yet England, off color so far in this tournament, dazzled at Twickenham to not only retain their Six Nations title but equal the world record of 18 consecutive Test victories for a Tier One side, set by New Zealand last year. Their   thumping of a disappointing Scotland also extended their own record of consecutive Six Nations victories to 11. There were more records of note, too. A   from Jonathan Joseph and 26 points from the boot of Owen Farrell helped the hosts to their highest score, and equaled their biggest winning margin, against Scotland as they retained the Calcutta Cup, a trophy awarded to the winner of the annual Six Nations tussle between these two countries.  England coach Eddie Jones said his team were ”ruthless” and performed ”like the number one side in the world.” A step closer to sporting greatness? This was a sensational performance from a side whose claim to greatness has been questioned after unconvincing wins in their opening three matches of this tournament.  Whether England are yet the equal of New Zealand    double World Champions and the world’s   team    on the pitch is still open to question. Many would answer a firm no. Jones himself admitted there was still a gap between the All Blacks and his   England.  READ: The double life of England’s ’Super Maro’  READ: Rugby’s concussion problem  READ: Italy coach defends controversial tactics, ”We’re not beating our chest saying we’re the No. 1 team in the world, but we aspire to be the No. 1 team in the world,” said the Australian, who has yet to experience defeat since taking charge in November 2015 following England’s humiliating early World Cup exit.  This result, however, would have made the All Blacks take note.  Another equally resounding victory against Ireland, on March 18, in the concluding match of the tournament and England will stand alone in the history books with 19 consecutive wins. A win in Dublin against an Ireland team which ended New Zealand’s record run of invincibility last October and Jones’ men would also secure their first    Grand Slam since 1992. Even New Zealand would then acknowledge them as worthy adversaries, though both sides are not scheduled to play each other until at least 2018. ’We’re vulnerable, we’ve won’ In quickly turning the focus to the final weekend, Jones said his players would achieve greatness were they to secure another win.  The Dublin clash was supposed to be a   contest, but Ireland’s defeat by Wales on Friday ensured England simply had to beat Scotland to successfully defend their title.  ”How many times in your life do you get to be great?” asked the former Japan and Australia head coach.  ”That’s the opportunity they’ve got and it’s exciting. They’re in the dressing room now talking about it.  ”Ireland, psychologically, are in a strong position. They’re beaten, they’re out of the tournament and they love spoiling parties and the party they most like to spoil is the England party. That’s an enormous amount of psychological advantage.” England burst out of the blocks, This is a very good England side. Their quest for greatness ongoing.  Before a capacity crowd on home turf, Jones’ men attacked with verve and overpowered an    Scotland side, securing their place in history, alongside the All Blacks, with a swaggering   display. Centers Joseph, not in the team for the win over Italy, and Farrell were the standout performers. Farrell, an injury doubt until match day after injuring his leg in training, pulled the strings in midfield, while Joseph was the poacher supreme    securing his   before he was substituted on the hour. ”We executed some lovely plays,” admitted Jones.  ”Some of the space created by Jonathan Joseph was absolutely outstanding and it was the work of George Ford and Owen Farrell on the inside. This is a great message from us.” Replacements Anthony Watson, Billy Vunipola and Danny Care (2) also crossed the whitewash as England cut loose with ease against a timid defense.  Much was made before the match of the power at Jones’ disposal on the bench    the combined weight of his replacements was nearly a ton    but with England leading   at halftime the match was over before behemoths such as Mako and Billy Vunipola inflicted further damage.  Injuries, poor defending   Scotland struggle  Scotland had high hopes coming into this match. They had won two of their three matches, scoring seven tries in the process, and were chasing a first Triple Crown   awarded for beating the   home nations    since 1990.  But they were a shadow of the side which had lit up this tournament. Their hooker Fraser Brown was sin binned in the second minute, while star player Stuart Hogg suffered a head injury early on. His replacement Mark Bennett lasted just four minutes after suffering an injury.  The visitors did manage three tries   a Huw Jones brace and a Gordon Reid touchdown    but the damage was done within the opening 20 minutes, when England were already   ahead.  It was perhaps always too much to expect Scotland to burst England’s balloon. None of the players on the pitch were born when the Scots last won at Twickenham in 1983. Indeed, they have only won on this ground four times in 108 years and have not won the Calcutta Cup since 2008.  ”We’ll take this one on the chin,” said Vern Cotter, who will stand down as head coach after Scotland’s match with Italy on the final weekend. 