ANKARA, Turkey  —   Turkey’s president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, declared a   state of emergency on Wednesday that gave the state extra powers to pass laws as the authorities pursue individuals suspected of attempting to topple his government. The declaration followed the firing and suspension of tens thousands of soldiers, educators and civil servants in recent days on suspicion of complicity in the failed coup last week. In a televised address on Wednesday evening, Mr. Erdogan said the extra powers were needed to protect Turkey’s democracy, and he criticized Western nations who have accused his government of overreaching in its efforts to root out opponents. “The aim is to rapidly and effectively take all steps needed to eliminate the threat against democracy, the rule of law and the people’s rights and freedoms,” Mr. Erdogan said. “This measure is in no way against democracy, the law and freedoms,” he added. “On the contrary, it aims to protect and strengthen them. ” The moves come as a response to the revolt over the weekend, when renegade military units captured a number of officials and attacked the Turkish Parliament and other government buildings before encountering resistance from army and police forces, as well as from Turkish citizens. More than 250 people were killed before the rebellion was put down. Some European leaders and human rights groups have criticized the scope of the government’s subsequent purge of state institutions as well as calls by many Turks to reinstitute the death penalty to punish those involved in the coup. “Europe does not have the right to criticize this decision,” Mr. Erdogan said during his address, noting that some European countries had taken extraordinary measures after terrorist attacks within their own borders. Earlier on Wednesday, Mr. Erdogan said in a television interview that he suspected foreign countries might have been involved in the failed coup, although he declined to say which governments may have wanted him out of power. Speaking through an interpreter in an interview with Al Jazeera, Mr. Erdogan also said that there might still be plots against his government. “I don’t think we have come to the end of it yet,” Mr. Erdogan said. According to the Turkish Constitution, the council of ministers, which is led by the president, can declare a state of emergency based on “widespread acts of violence aimed at the destruction of the free democratic order. ” It must be approved by Parliament and allows the ministers to pass decrees that have the force of law, although they can be overruled by Parliament. It does not grant the power to restrict individual freedoms that is provided by martial law. The Turkish authorities have moved rapidly to remove from the state bureaucracy the suspected followers of Fethullah Gulen, a Muslim cleric and rival of Mr. Erdogan whom Turkish officials accuse of orchestrating the coup plot. On Wednesday, two judges on Turkey’s constitutional court were arrested, and the defense ministry fired more than 200 military court judges and prosecutors. Turkey’s   news agency also reported that the Education Ministry was closing 626 private schools under investigation for “crimes against the constitutional order and the running of that order. ” The constitutional court judges were among a group of more than 100 officials from the judiciary who were arrested on Wednesday. About 60, 000 soldiers, police officers, judges and civil servants have been suspended and detained across the country since last weekend, and about 1, 000 members of the military have been accused of connections to the attempted coup. Mr. Erdogan held a national security meeting earlier on Wednesday to discuss what other measures should be taken to rid the Turkish bureaucracy and security forces of those opposed to his government. In the interview with Al Jazeera, Mr. Erdogan dismissed suggestions that he was becoming authoritarian and that Turkish democracy was under any threat. “We will remain within a democratic parliamentary system, we will never step away from it,” he said. The purges of Turkish institutions included  the country’s Education Ministry on Tuesday, when more than 15, 000 of its employees were suspended. On Wednesday, academics were barred from traveling abroad for work in an effort to prevent scholars and university professors accused of participation in the coup plot from fleeing the country, Turkish officials said. Mr. Gulen, who has denied involvement in the attempted coup, is a onetime ally of Mr. Erdogan who lives in   exile in Pennsylvania. He is believed to have inspired a vast network of educational institutions in Turkey, the United States and elsewhere, and is known to have many sympathizers in the police and judiciary in Turkey. Also on Wednesday, the country’s internet watchdog blocked access to the WikiLeaks website after it published thousands of emails linked to the accounts of the governing Justice and Development Party. A government official said the decision was made because the publishing of the emails was a violation of privacy and because the data had been illegally obtained.