PHILADELPHIA  —   The Fox News skybox here turns into a hive of activity as the network’s star anchors analyze the Democratic National Convention for millions of viewers. When the cameras blink off, however, the banter has been replaced by something rarely heard in the television news business: silence. Megyn Kelly and her   including Bret Baier and Brit Hume, have not been speaking during commercial breaks, according to two people with direct knowledge of the anchors’ interactions, who described the   atmosphere at Fox News as icy. During ads, the hosts are often absorbed with their smartphones. Even as Fox News goes about broadcasting as usual, scoring its highest convention ratings in 20 years, interviews this week with network employees show an organization grappling with internal division after the abrupt exit of Roger Ailes, the   chairman at the center of a sexual harassment investigation. Nearly a dozen Fox News employees, who work in front of and behind the camera, were granted anonymity to speak candidly about highly sensitive matters inside a network where privacy is still prized. The hosts’   interactions have improved slightly since last week’s shows at the Republican National Convention in Cleveland, which were broadcast immediately after Mr. Ailes’s departure. Still, employees say there is a continuing split inside the network, with one camp of   Fox News loyalists  —   some of whom owe their careers to Mr. Ailes  —   upset at his ouster. Some are resentful toward Ms. Kelly for cooperating with lawyers brought in by the network’s parent company, 21st Century Fox, to investigate Mr. Ailes’s behavior. (About a dozen women have reported improper behavior by Mr. Ailes to investigators.) Another contingent inside Fox News is equally dismayed by the responses of stars like Kimberly Guilfoyle, Greta Van Susteren and Jeanine Pirro, who were quick to publicly defend Mr. Ailes after he was accused of harassment in a suit filed by the former anchor Gretchen Carlson. Ms. Kelly has told colleagues that she was disappointed with those who stepped forward to vouch for Mr. Ailes before knowing the full extent of the allegations against him. Some of her colleagues have also spoken out, including the Fox contributor Kirsten Powers and the meteorologist Janice Dean, who praised Ms. Kelly on Facebook, writing: “Strong women stand up for themselves. Stronger women stand up for others. ” Mr. Hume, the anchor, wrote in an email on Wednesday that any reports of tension between himself and Ms. Kelly were exaggerated. “Yes, I am upset about Roger’s departure. I love the guy,” Mr. Hume wrote. “I don’t think this episode was about political correctness,” he added. “And I think Megyn Kelly did what she felt she had to do, and I am not upset with her. ” Looming over the Fox News operations is a battle for succession to Mr. Ailes, who over 20 years established his position as one of the most powerful in television. And dozens of the network’s major stars and executives have been on the road for convention coverage since before Mr. Ailes resigned, forced to keep up from afar with   developments at corporate headquarters in Manhattan. “There’s no doubt this has been a challenging time,” Rupert Murdoch, the network’s new chairman and media mogul, who started Fox News with Mr. Ailes, wrote in a memo to the staff on Tuesday, in an attempt to bolster morale. Internally, Mr. Murdoch has signaled that he is in no rush to name a successor, and as acting chief executive he plans to be closely involved with the newsroom the process for a replacement could take months, a person briefed on the plans said on Wednesday. In Philadelphia, an army of Fox workers has been clustered in a small warren of tents and trailers  —   known as the “Fox compound’’  —   outside the Wells Fargo Center. Employees are commuting from a hotel in Mount Laurel, N. J. about 30 minutes away. The heavy humidity here and grueling schedule have left staff members fatigued as they wait for bursts of news about the network. In terms of news coverage, the week has had ups and downs. An   comment by Bill O’Reilly  —   that slaves who built the White House were “well fed and had decent lodgings provided by the government”  —   prompted the kind of outcry that the provocative and unapologetic Mr. Ailes often relished. But in a surprise, the network also announced that Hillary Clinton would be interviewed on the network on Sunday, her first postconvention television appearance and her first time on “Fox News Sunday” in nearly five years. Chris Wallace, the anchor who once memorably clashed with her husband, President Bill Clinton, said he spent 15 months securing the interview. Bill Shine, a top Ailes lieutenant who is now considered a potential successor, is monitoring convention coverage from New York. Jay Wallace, the network’s executive vice president of news and editorial, is overseeing operations in Philadelphia. (Mr. Shine and Mr. Wallace are running the network in partnership with Mr. Murdoch.) Mr. Wallace took on his current job in April, replacing Michael Clemente, who was given a position overseeing   news specials, a move viewed internally as a demotion. Earlier this week, Mr. Clemente was dismissed by Mr. Shine. The move was unrelated to harassment issues, according to Nathaniel Brown, a spokesman for 21st Century Fox. Mr. Clemente had been criticized within the network by rival executives, according to people who witnessed their discussions, but his departure took some employees by surprise: Fox had recently created a new office for Mr. Clemente in its Avenue of the Americas headquarters, converting a former conference room, one employee said.