PHILADELPHIA  —   Democrats pushed on Friday to extend the excitement spurred by a   convention that culminated in the presidential nomination of Hillary Clinton, taking the fight against Donald J. Trump to the battleground states that could decide an election just over 100 days away. Two weeks of speeches, music, infighting and ultimately mountains of balloons and confetti for Democrats and Republicans have cemented the terms of the debate and left both parties as unified as they can be. Now comes the grueling homestretch of the campaign, where advertising will step up and the bickering between the candidates is likely to become even more biting. Signaling the importance of Pennsylvania, Mrs. Clinton and her running mate, Senator Tim Kaine of Virginia, stayed in Philadelphia to campaign early Friday, holding a rally at Temple University to begin a   bus tour through Harrisburg and Pittsburgh and then Youngstown and Columbus, Ohio. Mr. Trump made his way west for campaign events in Colorado Springs and Denver. While en route, he lashed out on Twitter at those who were critical of him at the Democratic National Convention, specifically calling out Michael R. Bloomberg, New York’s former mayor, and John R. Allen, a retired   general, as failures. That Pennsylvania, which Democrats have carried in every presidential election since 1992, is in play underscores the threat posed by Mr. Trump, who campaigned on Wednesday in Scranton. The Republican nominee’s appeals to white   voters make him attractive in the Rust Belt and could potentially reshape the election map. Joined by her running mate and a handful of Pennsylvania lawmakers, Mrs. Clinton took stock on Friday of the campaign’s new phase, taking pains to contrast her convention’s sunnier outlook with Mr. Trump’s grim appraisal during the Republican National Convention in Cleveland. And her more traditional campaign event was in stark contrast to the withering   attack Mr. Trump delivered against Senator Ted Cruz in which he rehashed old dramas about the Texas senator’s wife and father. “We might as well have been talking about two different countries,” Mrs. Clinton told a crowd of thousands packed inside a gymnasium. “Or, as someone said to me, two different planets. ” Mrs. Clinton said she had been up quite late after her speech on Thursday  —   “It was just really hard to go to sleep,” she said  —   and joked that she and her husband had asked to have their coffee “administered through an IV. ” “We suddenly looked at each other and we realized, as of tomorrow, we have 100 days to make our case,” Mrs. Clinton said. That meant continuing to depict Mr. Trump as a danger to democracy, a   anathema to the country’s principles. The nation’s founders “knew they didn’t want one person, one man, to have all the power like a king,” said Mrs. Clinton, who also made sure to note her family ties to Scranton, where she spent her childhood summers. A Suffolk University poll released this week showed Mrs. Clinton with a nine percentage point lead in Pennsylvania, but she is not taking anything for granted. Democrats hope that hosting their national convention in Philadelphia will give Mrs. Clinton a boost in the state. “I think Democrats will be unified against Donald Trump and in favor of a more hopeful optimistic message for the country,” said Josh Shapiro, the Montgomery County commissioner, who is running to be Pennsylvania’s attorney general. “Everyone will be on the same page coming out of Philly this week. ” Political analysts will be watching closely in the coming days to see if Mrs. Clinton receives a bounce nationally from the convention, which was well received for its crisp choreography. Mr. Trump overtook her in some polls after last week’s Republican convention. While Democrats generally considered Mrs. Clinton’s acceptance speech on Thursday night to be one of her best, Republicans offered reviews that were more mixed. Many considered it to be a classic liberal speech filled with policies they could never support, but some Republicans who still refuse to support Mr. Trump expressed remorse about the direction of their party and offered some praise for her address. “There’s a logic to this speech that is in American mainstream,” said Stuart Stevens, a former adviser to Mitt Romney. “Trump was dark and outside mainstream. ” Unsurprisingly, the Trump campaign pushed back against Mrs. Clinton’s assertion that Mr. Trump was taking the Republican Party from “morning in America” to “midnight in America. ” “If it’s midnight in America, it’s because of the seven and a half years of the Obama and Clinton administration,” Paul Manafort, Mr. Trump’s campaign chairman, said on Fox News on Friday. Mr. Trump’s running mate, Gov. Mike Pence of Indiana, said at a luncheon in Indianapolis that Mrs. Clinton offered no new ideas. “What I heard was more, a commitment to more taxes, more regulation, more government,” he said. “More of the same failed policies that have landed our national government $19 trillion in debt. ” In an interview on the Hugh Hewitt radio program, Mr. Pence lamented the personal attacks leveled by Democrats at Mr. Trump, particularly President Obama labeling him a “demagogue. ” “I don’t think name calling has any place in public life, and I thought that was unfortunate that the president of the United States would use a term like that,” Mr. Pence said. Mr. Trump was skewered by many of the speakers at the Democratic convention, where his business record, his combative policies and even his sanity were called into question. He clearly took it personally. Doing some   of his own on Friday, he mocked Mr. Bloomberg’s height and claimed that General Allen “failed badly” in the fight against the Islamic State. And Mr. Trump took issue with the content and tenor of Mrs. Clinton’s speech, arguing that his opponent envisions a borderless America where workers have no power and no security. And he was not pleased with how she characterized him. “Crooked Hillary Clinton made up facts about me, and ‘forgot’ to mention the many problems of our country, in her very average scream!” Mr. Trump said. At his rally in Colorado Springs, Mr. Trump said that he thought the Republican convention was the better of the two and that he was disappointed Mrs. Clinton did not at least congratulate him on being nominated. When the adoring crowd began chanting “lock her up,” Mr. Trump did not stop them. “I’ve been saying let’s just beat her on Nov. 8, but you know what I’m starting to agree with you,” he said. “I’m taking the gloves off!”