Ellicott City, Md. a historic town west of Baltimore, was devastated by flooding on Saturday night after more than six inches of rain fell in just two hours, sending a   current down its Main Street and leaving at least two people dead. Officials and witnesses said the floodwaters rushed through the downtown area after torrential rain fell between 7 and 9 p. m. It ripped up sidewalks, gutted many of the town’s quaint shops and carried off vehicles, depositing some of them blocks away. The body of a woman was recovered from the nearby Patapsco River early on Sunday, and the body of a man was also found, said Mark Miller, a spokesman for Howard County, where Ellicott City is the county seat. “This was a different type of flooding than you would normally get when just the Patapsco rises  —   far more devastating,” Mr. Miller said. “It’s like the water was a piston. The water came through with such force. ” Gov. Larry Hogan and Representative Elijah E. Cummings visited the destruction early on Sunday. Mr. Hogan signed an executive order declaring a state of emergency for Howard County. Mr. Cummings, who has an office on Main Street, said in a statement that the flooding had “devastated countless businesses and residents in Ellicott City. ” “Recovering from this disaster will be long and difficult,” he said. The downtown area has been evacuated and closed off while emergency crews assess the safety of the buildings there. County officials asked residents to be patient during what some anticipated would be a monthslong rebuilding process. Founded in 1772 as a mill town, Ellicott City has for the past several decades catered to tourists with its historic charm and antique shops, said Shawn Gladden, the executive director of the Howard County Historical Society. The town’s location in the Patapsco River Valley has made it susceptible to flooding. On Sunday, some of its roughly 65, 000 residents were already drawing comparisons to the two biggest floods in its recorded history, the flood of 1868 and flooding caused by Hurricane Agnes in 1972. “They call them the   floods,” Mr. Gladden said. “And this one may rival that. ” The National Weather Service had issued warnings about potential floods on Saturday, and at one point sent a sharply worded bulletin: “This is a particularly dangerous situation. Seek higher ground now!” Despite the warnings, the ferocity of the waters came as a surprise to many workers and residents in downtown Ellicott City, trapping them where they were. Inside Bean Hollow, the water rose swiftly to about three feet. With no time to flee, the coffee shop’s workers scrambled to an apartment on the second floor. “This was a true flash flood,” said Jim Bolton, who has owned Bean Hollow with his wife for about 14 years. “By the time people realized there was a potential hazard, it was far too late for anyone to do anything. ” Mr. Bolton said he expected the rebuilding of Ellicott City to be a long road. “It’s decimated right now,” he said. “But it’s certainly had its share of floods and fires and all sorts of madness over the years. It will rise again. ”