Updated, 10:34 a. m. Good morning on this temperate Tuesday. Apparently, we could all up our recycling game. First, less than half of what we could recycle ends up in our city’s recycling programs, according to a report published last month by the city’s Independent Budget Office. Second, much of what we do try to recycle gets thrown into the wrong bins. “This makes recycling more expensive, and it makes what’s actually recyclable less valuable,” said Daniel Huber, an environmental analyst with the budget office. For those New Yorkers who have successfully avoided taking the trash to the curb, a quick primer. The Sanitation Department has three main streams for the city’s unwanted stuff  —   one for garbage destined for a landfill, one to recycle paper, and one to recycle metal, glass and plastic. According to the July report, which used Sanitation Department data from 2013, only about a quarter of aluminum cans  —   one of the most valuable recyclable metals  —   makes it into the right bin. And only around 5 percent of our plastic cups, plates and utensils goes to the right place. We do the best job recycling glass, but as it turns out, that’s one of the least valuable types of commodities, Mr. Huber said  —   far less useful than recycled metal and paper. So what can we do to make recycling less painful for us and more efficient for those processing it? “Being more diligent about making sure stuff doesn’t end up in the wrong recycling stream is the key one,” Mr. Huber told us. Think twice about where your child’s dirty diapers and juice boxes are thrown. Before the    season, recycle last year’s notebooks. (And even electronics.) Don’t scavenge. And take the time to understand what newer recycling categories are being accepted around the city, Mr. Huber added. You can learn more about what programs the city is working on in your neighborhood here. Here’s what else is happening: Could be better, could be worse. Skies will stay mostly cloudy today, with a small chance of showers before lunchtime and a high near 80. And if the gray has gotten you glum, don’t fret: We’re about to hit a sunny streak, which will last through the weekend. • A Turkish gold trader, charged with conspiracy to violate the U. S. sanctions on Iran, has hired a dream team of defense lawyers. [New York Times] • A Long Island company has been charged in an insurance scheme after Hurricane Sandy. [New York Times] • What could happen in the city’s 2017 mayoral race? [New York Times] • Christine C. Quinn, the former New York City Council speaker, and Corey Lewandowski, Donald J. Trump’s former campaign manager, quarrel on live national television. [New York Times] • Thanks to Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, registered sex offenders probably won’t be playing Pokémon Go. [NBC] • New Yorkers are warned about traveling to Miami after the recent surge in Zika there. [DNAInfo] • In an effort akin to Occupy Wall Street, hundreds of Occupy City Hall Park protesters called to abolish the New York Police Department. [DNAInfo] • The drug epidemic on Staten Island is causing more babies there to be born in withdrawal, a condition called neonatal abstinence syndrome. [Staten Island Advance] • This artificial intelligence bot can help you fight your parking tickets. [Crain’s] • Here’s a    guide showing how gentrification has rapidly changed Williamsburg. [Curbed] • Citi Bike unveiled a major expansion on Monday. [Streetsblog N. Y. C.] • Applications for N. Y. U. will no longer include a checkbox to disclose a student’s criminal history. [DNAInfo] • Animal rights activists protested crustacean torture at a large lobster boil event in Brooklyn. [Gothamist] • Today’s Metropolitan Diary: “De Palma and De Niro in Our Apartment” • Scoreboard: Yankees maul Mets,   (in 10 innings). • For a global look at what’s happening, see Your Tuesday Briefing. • “Faces of Cuba,” a photography exhibit, is at Poe Park Visitor Center in the Bronx. 9 a. m. to 5 p. m. [Free] • A swing dancing class (and happy hour) at Q. E. D. in Astoria, Queens. Drinks at 6:30 p. m. Dancing at 7 p. m. [$15] • “Grand Illusion: Celestial Motions,” a talk on constellations and more, at the American Museum of Natural History on the Upper West Side. 7 p. m. [$15] • The East Coast Chamber Orchestra plays an outdoor classical music concert at Naumburg Bandshell in Central Park. 7:30 p. m. [Free] • Looking ahead: “Brooklyn Pizza: The Search for Authenticity,” a talk with a pizza historian and top pizza chefs, at the Brooklyn Historical Society. Thursday at 7 p. m. [$12] • Mets host Yankees, 7:10 p. m. (YES). • For more events, see The New York Times’s Arts  Entertainment guide. • Subway  and PATH  • Railroads: L. I. R. R.   N. J. Transit, Amtrak • Roads: Check traffic map or radio report on the 1s or the 8s. •   parking: in effect until Aug. 15. • Ferries: Staten Island Ferry, New York Waterway, East River Ferry • Airports: La Guardia, J. F. K. Newark Smoke. Explosions. Gunfire. In Central Park. But worry not, it’s just special effects for “Troilus and Cressida. ” The show is part of Shakespeare in the Park, a longstanding summer tradition created by the Public Theater, which was formed about 60 years ago. Familiar faces have graced the stages. To name a few: Meryl Streep in “The Taming of the Shrew,” Liev Schreiber in “Macbeth,” Anne Hathaway in “Twelfth Night,” and Al Pacino in “The Merchant of Venice. ” “Troilus and Cressida” runs through Aug. 14 at the Delacorte Theater in Central Park. [Free, tickets here] This feisty tale of ancient Greek love and war might even remind you of modern dating in New York. Enjoy! New York Today is a weekday roundup that stays live from 6 a. m. till late morning. You can receive it via email. For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook. What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes. com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday.  Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter. You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday. com.