SAN FRANCISCO  —   Innate Immunotherapeutics is a tiny pharmaceutical company from Australia that has no approved drugs and no backing from flashy venture capital firms, and trades for just over a dollar a share on the Australian Stock Exchange. More than once, the company has run out of money and nearly closed its doors. But despite its unremarkable profile, Innate has some surprisingly influential boosters in Washington. The congressional liaison to   Donald J. Trump’s transition team, Representative Chris Collins, Republican of New York, is the company’s largest shareholder and sits on the board. Representative Tom Price of Georgia, Mr. Trump’s nominee to be secretary of health and human services, purchased shares of Innate four times in 2015 and 2016, according to congressional financial disclosures, totaling between $60, 000 and $110, 000. Other Washington power players with investments in the company include Michael Hook, Mr. Collins’s chief of staff, who is a top shareholder, and Bill Paxon, a Washington lobbyist and former congressman, according to company filings and congressional financial disclosures. Last summer, Mr. Price, Mr. Hook and Mr. Paxon bought the stock at a discount as part of a private offering organized by Innate aimed at “sophisticated U. S. investors. ” They have since quintupled their money, at least on paper. Mr. Price’s investments in health care companies, including Innate, are almost certain to be a focus of questioning during his confirmation hearings next week. Some prominent Democrats are already asking whether he may have crossed ethical lines by investing in companies that stood to benefit from legislation he helped shape. Senator Chuck Schumer and Representative Louise Slaughter of New York and other Democrats have called for investigations into Mr. Price’s trades. On Wednesday, Mr. Price, who as health secretary would oversee the Food and Drug Administration, filed papers with the federal government saying he would divest himself of interests in several health care companies, including Innate. Phillip J. Blando, a spokesman for the presidential transition, said that Mr. Price took “his obligation to uphold the public trust very seriously,” and that the Office of Government Ethics had completed an “exhaustive” review of his financial holdings. Representatives of Mr. Price and Mr. Collins say they have not broken any rules, but what has puzzled Washington and industry insiders alike is how a   Australian biotech, with only one experimental multiple sclerosis drug under development, attracted a coterie of Washington investors, including the man who is likely to become the next health secretary. “Maybe Chris is just a cheerleader for the company and Tom Price jumped in head over heels,” said Craig Holman, the government affairs lobbyist for Public Citizen, a consumer group, which has asked for an investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission. “But it’s got to be taken a look at. It’s just so suspicious, someone’s got to ask, ‘What just happened? ’” Mr. Collins and Mr. Price have both been active in shaping health care legislation, and both voted in favor of the 21st Century Cures Act, which was backed by the pharmaceutical industry and included measures that would allow the F. D. A. to approve drugs more quickly. Mr. Price is a member of the House Ways and Means Committee’s subcommittee on health, and Mr. Collins serves on the health panel of the Energy and Commerce Committee. A spokesman for Mr. Collins said the congressman had followed all ethical guidelines and said Innate was one of many companies he had been involved in. “He is very proud of the progress the company has made over the years and hopeful it will be able to develop a potentially lifesaving treatment for the millions of individuals suffering from secondary progressive multiple sclerosis,” said the spokesman, Michael McAdams. In an interview this week in San Francisco, Innate’s chief executive, Simon Wilkinson, seemed amused at all of the attention now being paid to what he described as his “little biotech at the wrong end of the world. ” Mr. Wilkinson and Michael Quinn, Innate’s chairman, said they had never heard of many of the company’s more prominent investors, and said they first learned that Mr. Price had invested in the company from an article in The Wall Street Journal, which first reported his investment. They also said they had not heard of Mr. Hook, the   shareholder, or Mr. Paxon and said they had little interest in gaining the ear of powerful Washington players. Their goal, they said, is to sell the company to a larger pharmaceutical company. “It won’t be up to us to seek approval for the drug,” Mr. Wilkinson said in the interview, which took place at his hotel on a rundown block in San Francisco, where he was pitching the company to potential buyers at the JPMorgan Health Care Conference. Like many biotech   Innate has had ups and downs, Mr. Wilkinson said. “But sometimes, things happen,” he added. In his case, he said, “I met Chris. ” Mr. Wilkinson said he was on a   trip to the United States in 2005 when the two met, and he made his pitch to Mr. Collins, who was then a businessman with a reputation for turning around struggling companies. Mr. Collins decided to invest in the company, eventually joining its board. In 2007, Mr. Collins was elected county executive of Erie County, which includes Buffalo, and in 2012, he won election to Congress. He remained on Innate’s board, and Mr. Wilkinson and Mr. Quinn said his new political career has had little impact. “If anything, I suspect it’s probably a negative,” Mr. Quinn said. “Because he’s a bit harder to access  —   he’s just busy. ” Mr. Collins remained one of the company’s top cheerleaders, enlisting many of his associates as investors and even lending the company money a handful of times when it was at risk of going out of business. Today, many of Innate’s biggest shareholders have ties to Mr. Collins. They include two of his adult children, Caitlin and Cameron, who are the company’s   and   shareholders, as well as several Buffalo businessmen who have donated to his political campaigns, according to company filings and campaign finance disclosures. Lindy Ruff, the head coach of the Dallas Stars hockey team and a former player and coach for the Buffalo Sabres, is also an investor. Innate’s sole drug in development, MIS416, is in clinical trials in Australia and New Zealand to evaluate whether it works in people with an advanced form of multiple sclerosis. A midlevel trial is underway, and results are due in the middle of this year. Experts in congressional ethics and trading rules said there did not appear to be evidence that Mr. Collins or Mr. Price used nonpublic information to steer their investment activities, a practice that would violate what is known as the Stock Act, which bans insider trading by members of Congress. But, said Donna M. Nagy, a law professor at Indiana University who has written on the financial investments by members of Congress, “One needs facts in order to get answers to those questions, and coming up with the facts for that is going to be difficult. ” Mr. Holman of Public Citizen said Mr. Collins’s recruiting efforts among Washington power players created the opportunity for “influence peddling. ” For example, Mr. Paxon, who represented Mr. Collins’s congressional district in the 1990s, could appear before Mr. Collins as both a lobbyist and a fellow investor in Innate. “It’s a very effective means of buying access and hopefully influencing politicians,” Mr. Holman said. Mr. Collins’s spokesman said Mr. Paxon and Mr. Collins had never discussed Innate and noted that, because they are both from the Buffalo area, he might have become aware of Innate through other investors in the region. Mr. Paxon did not respond to emails and a call for comment. Last summer, Innate offered a select opportunity to United States investors, one that Mr. Collins’s friends and associates appear to have benefited from. Under what is known as a private placement, Innate sold a limited number of shares at a discount in an effort to raise capital. In company filings, Innate said one offering of the shares would be sold to “sophisticated U. S. investors” and would be used, among other things, to finance a clinical trial and to gain permission from the F. D. A. to start a process that could lead to applying for approval of the drug in the United States. Last summer, Mr. Price, Mr. Hook and Mr. Paxon were among 16 entities that took part in the private American placement, as did several other of Mr. Collins’s associates and donors, according to the company filing. Mr. Price and Mr. Hook also participated in a second offering in the summer, the filings show. Mr. Price purchased between $50, 000 and $100, 000 in Innate shares in August, which was among the largest stock buys he had made since 2012, according to congressional financial disclosures. The investment was larger than his trades in more established pharmaceutical stocks like Pfizer and Merck. With his discount from the private placements, Mr. Price would have purchased some stock at 25 Australian cents per share in August and some at 34 cents. The stock closed on Friday at $1. 31. Mr. McAdams, Mr. Collins’s spokesman, said the private placement was available to qualified American investors and said Mr. Hook had previously invested in a private placement with the company in 2009, before Mr. Collins was a congressman. Several other investors were longtime friends of Mr. Collins, Mr. McAdams said, and their investment predates his time in Congress. Mr. Quinn dismissed questions about whether anyone engaged in insider trading and said the company’s stock had been rising in anticipation of the results of the clinical trial later this year. The outcome of such trials is typically kept secret from investors and even company executives. “Right now the whole value of this thing swings on a bet on the study results,” he said. In San Francisco this week, Mr. Wilkinson said he had received interest in a possible acquisition from about 20 “high grade” pharmaceutical companies. The drug, if approved, would be the first to treat a progressive form of multiple sclerosis. But he was also   noting wryly that Innate was such a “bottom feeder” at the JPMorgan conference that the company had not even qualified for an invitation to attend the main event.