NEW ORLEANS  —   DeRay Mckesson is a prominent voice of the Black Lives Matter movement who was arrested in July while protesting the fatal police shooting of a Baton Rouge man selling CDs outside a convenience store. On Thursday, he filed a proposed   lawsuit against the city of Baton Rouge and several law enforcement agencies. The suit, in which Mr. Mckesson is joined as a named plaintiff by two other protesters who were also arrested, says that the police “employed unconstitutional tactics to disturb, disrupt, infringe upon and criminalize” the constitutional rights of assembly and free speech. Mr. Mckesson was arrested July 9, four days after the shooting of the man, Alton Sterling, and as demonstrations had been growing in Baton Rouge. The night he was arrested, on the grounds of “simple obstruction of a highway of commerce,” more than 100 people were also arrested, mostly on the same charge. Mr. Mckesson was held overnight and released the next day. About a week later, the parish prosecutor announced that he would drop charges against Mr. Mckesson and about 100 of the 185 people who had been arrested during the protests. Like Mr. Mckesson, the two other named plaintiffs in the lawsuit, Gloria La Riva of San Francisco and Kira Marrero of Louisiana, were arrested on the   charge, which was later dropped. The suit, which seeks to represent all those arrested on this charge during the July protests, demands the removal of the arrests from criminal records and the reimbursement of bond payments, lawyers’ fees and other costs paid by the plaintiffs. The defendants include Mayor Kip Holden of Baton Rouge the city’s police chief, Carl Dabadie Jr. the parish sheriff and the superintendent of the Louisiana State Police. A spokesman for the mayor’s office could not be reached for comment, and a Baton Rouge Police Department spokesman would not comment. Mr. Mckesson’s lawsuit followed another one concerning the Baton Rouge protests, by the American Civil Liberties Union of Louisiana. That suit seeks a court order to change the way police respond to protests. Responding to the July protests, which were nearly all peaceful,   officers in Baton Rouge wore riot gear, carried long guns and made arrests on private property. Their tactics have drawn intense criticism, but city officials defended them, citing suspected violent plots against the police. On July 17, a former Marine angered over police shootings traveled to Baton Rouge from Missouri and shot six law enforcement officers, killing three.