Brazil’s signature contribution to world culture is its popular music, and the characteristic mood of that music is the melancholy yearning called saudade. That is not the mood NBC wants you in while you’re watching its coverage of the 2016 Rio Olympics, however. In its broadcast of the Games’ opening ceremony on Friday night  —   meant to set the tone for more than 6, 500 hours of television and digital coverage over the next   weeks  —   the network was intent on getting the party started. During NBC’s long introduction to the ceremony, the emphasis was on the physical beauty of the Brazilian landscape and its often scantily clad Brazilian bodies, and on the many styles of dancing abandon the country’s music inspires. Despite the controversies and fears that have dogged the Rio Games, the city was ready to throw “a massive party,” said Meredith Vieira, one of three “Today” hosts recruited to narrate the ceremony, along with Matt Lauer and Hoda Kotb. Ms. Kotb, the designated fun one, squealed, “Did somebody say party?” When the canned intro ended, more than an hour after the ceremony had actually started, a nearly subliminal string of words on screen painted the clichéd picture of (sanitized) hedonism that NBC wants as a background for its broadcast: music, color, flavor, passion, beaches, samba, carnival, futbol. The hosts did not ignore the scandals  —   economic, political, health and doping  —   that have dominated the   to the Games, but their references were predictably few and faint. About the absence of the Brazilian president, Dilma Rousseff, who faces an impeachment trial, “It’s complicated” was as direct as it got. But NBC couldn’t airbrush out the parts of the ceremony itself that took on larger concerns. Less visually and choreographically impressive than Zhang Yimou’s spectacular show in Beijing in 2008, and less   than London in 2012, the production Friday night had a winning earnestness. A long, powerful section represented Brazil’s history of slavery, and the culmination of the ceremony was a bald warning of the dangers of global warming to coastal cities like Rio de Janeiro. NBC’s   decision to   the broadcast of the ceremony by an hour  —   starting at 8 p. m. Eastern  —   probably had little or no effect on what we saw. There did not appear to be any significant disturbances or glitches at the stadium that needed to be smoothed over. What the network really gained by delaying the ceremony was more viewers for its nakedly promotional introductory  . NBC featured the American athletes it is counting on for story lines, like the swimmer Michael Phelps and the sprinter Allyson Felix and an intrusive, embarrassing promo touted NBC’s most prominent announcers. The nadir of the evening was a   segment, positioned just before the start of the opening ceremony, that was ostensibly about Olympic golf but was really a plug for the   Golf Channel. The ceremony, when it arrived, was firmly in the approved international style that combines elements of Cirque du Soleil, “The Lion King,” American football halftime shows, political conventions,   film (particularly the director Terrence Malick) and the fireworks of the artist Cai  . An irregularly shaped section of the floor of the Maracanã stadium served as stage and screen. Watching theatrical effects that are scaled for a large stadium in the confines of a television screen is always problematic  —   you’re too close to the action and at the same time you’re missing the immersive effects of lights and sound. The opening act, a countdown to the ceremony involving lots of mylar, looked like hundreds of giant bags of Jiffy Pop popcorn getting ready to burst. During a tribute to the Brazilian aviation pioneer Alberto   in which white boxes were tossed from hand to hand, the cameras were too close to capture the cascading effect. But other segments, like the sprouting of a rainforest from the stadium floor, and the slave march  —   for which dancers wore large blocks, like parking boots, on their feet  —   probably came across better on the screen, communicating some of the wonder that the stadium spectators must have felt. The ceremony’s most striking moment, however, involved a lone figure on a bare stage: the Brazilian model Gisele Bündchen, taking the longest catwalk ever, along the length of the Maracanã floor. Then there were the parts that were completely inexplicable without a program, like a wild number with masses of dancers in a multicolored,   mosh pit. NBC thoughtfully cut in a prerecorded interview with Daniela Thomas, one of the ceremony’s creative directors, explaining that it was a representation of Brazil’s divides of class and race, as well as a celebration of diversity. Eventually, NBC’s cameras found and kept returning to Ms. Bundchen dancing in the stands, an image they clearly preferred. The strange fate of Olympic opening ceremonies is that they inevitably segue into the visually monotonous parade of nations, two hours of waves, hideous national costumes and rampant selfie taking. Rio tried to put its stamp on the parade by having the teams led into the stadium by bicycle carts of the kind that ferry supplies around big beach resorts. The parade requires more of the announcers, and the “Today” crew, unusually subdued during the ceremony, nimbly recited demographic and historical facts. These skewed toward American interests: “Roots” opens in Gambia. Alexander Hamilton was born in St. Kitts and Nevis. As long and featureless as the parade may be, it is also inspiring and heartwarming, the loud cheers for a new team representing refugees (and for the very well muscled and oiled Tongan flag bearer) balancing the occasional cuts to American team members chanting “U. S. A. !” Conveniently for NBC, the home nation danced in last, a   samba line bouncing along to the best   music any nation has offered. With her mind on those 6, 500 hours of actual athletics still to come, the rights to which cost NBC north of $1 billion, Ms. Vieira cautioned: “This is not the party. You haven’t seen anything yet. ”