The authorities in Florida said Friday that Omar Mateen, whose June 12 rampage  at an Orlando nightclub left 49 other people dead, was shot at least eight times by police officers who responded to the deadly mass shooting. The Orange County medical examiner’s office released its report of Mr. Mateen’s autopsy on Friday, the same day local officials began to distribute their   findings about the victims of the attack, during which Mr. Mateen pledged his allegiance to the Islamic State. The 32 death reports released on Friday were the first time that the authorities so publicly cataloged and detailed the injuries of the dead. The medical examiner’s office said in a statement that it had begun notifying family members on Thursday that the reports would be released under the state’s public records law. The office said it expected to publish all of its assessments by Wednesday night. Officials reported their findings about the deaths of 28 men, including Mr. Mateen, and four women. The youngest victim whose autopsy was published was an    woman the oldest was a    man. Most of those who were killed died of multiple gunshot wounds, the autopsies showed. The placing of the shots varied some people were wounded in the head, while others were shot in the torso, and still others were struck in their arms, neck or lower extremities. It was not clear on Friday whether anyone besides Mr. Mateen had been killed from police gunfire. Citing the continuing inquiry, a spokeswoman for the Orlando police referred a request for comment to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, which did not respond to a message. But Orlando’s police chief, John Mina, left open the possibility in June, when he said, “That’s part of the investigation, but here’s what I will tell you: Those killings are on the suspect. ” The reports had a certain uniformity  —   each person’s death, for instance, was declared a homicide  —   but the scores of pages also carried small hints about individual lives. One man had been wearing two beaded bracelets when he was gunned down, while another young woman had worn “an elaborate yellow metal necklace” to Pulse. Another person had carried his photo identification from the Y. M. C. A. Mr. Mateen, his autopsy report noted, had been dressed in tan pants, a holster attached to a black belt. He was struck by gunfire in several places, including the chest, the abdomen and the foot. Mr. Mateen died after a protracted standoff with the police, who feared that he would set off explosives, as he had threatened to do. Once the authorities gained access to the nightclub with the aid of an armored vehicle, officials traded gunfire with Mr. Mateen, who was 29. The medical examiner’s office said Friday that it would not discuss individual cases. But in an interview in June, the county’s chief medical examiner, Dr. Joshua D. Stephany, said it appeared that all of the victims had died quickly. “It doesn’t appear anyone suffered,” he said. “Everyone went down where they were. I don’t think anyone had prolonged suffering. ”