Sam Sifton emails readers of Cooking five days a week to talk about food and suggest recipes. That email also appears here. To receive it in your inbox, register here. Good morning. I have a column in The Times Magazine today about a recipe for roasted potato hash that I’ve been messing around with for years now. It makes a superlative bed for eggs and an excellent side dish for steak. You could eat it with a mess of sautéed greens and be happy without the animal protein. You should make it entirely your own. Perhaps you could make it for lunch? And then for dinner tonight, you could try the recipe for braised chicken legs that I learned from the teachings of the California chef Cal Peternell, and sop up the sauce with Julia Moskin’s recipe for grilled garlic bread. On Monday night, you might go meatless and Balkan, mixing up David Tanis’s recipe for a Greek tomato salad and adding some crumbled feta if you like to make it really sing. Or you could go Brazilian in honor of the Olympic Games, with 10 recipes from that nation’s larder. For sure on Tuesday you could give Martha Rose Shulman’s recipe for   shrimp with spicy greens a try. Serve it with Kim Severson’s can’  rice and then settle in to see what the Olympics have to offer. (You’re not, like, in Rio, are you? If you are, or just want to imagine that you are, Florence Fabricant has a fine guide to the city’s best restaurant options.) Wednesday night could be good for a steak seared in a   pan and served with a platter of sautéed summer squash with red pepper and onion, along with leftover rice or a baguette and butter. Then on Thursday night just order a pizza and make Melissa’s recipe for eggplant with lamb, tomato and pine nuts while or after you eat it, in advance of serving a really incredible dish  —   one that benefits from overnight resting  —   on Friday night, as we head into the weekend. Thus fortified, you can wake up on Saturday morning, head to the market and return home to make jam. Go look around on Cooking to discover other things to cook this week. (This recipe for pork chops puttanesca, for instance.) And, if you like, tell us about what you make. We’re on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and Pinterest, where we use and applaud the hashtag #NYTCooking. If you run into problems along the way, don’t hesitate to ask for help: cookingcare@nytimes. com. Or if you have a particular question about food or cooking, kitchens or life in and around them, submit it to foodeditor@nytimes. com. I’ll be collecting the best of them to answer in a forthcoming “Hey, Mr. Food Editor” column for Men’s Style. Now, see if you can’t find an actual print copy of The Times today. In it we have a beautiful special section devoted to an excerpt from Colson Whitehead’s new novel, “The Underground Railroad. ” Or, if you want to stay online only, try this fascinating account of life as a paramedic in the border town of Laredo, Tex. in California Sunday. Watch the trailer for “Little Men. ” Read Tessa Hadley’s new short story, “Dido’s Lament,” in The New Yorker. And watch Melissa cook the   “impossible meat” that you may have been hearing about, on Facebook. See you tomorrow.