 (CNN) Here’s a look at the life of Jeff Sessions, US attorney general and former Republican senator of Alabama.   Personal:Birth date: December 24, 1946, Birth place: Selma, Alabama, Birth name: Jefferson Beauregard Sessions III, Father: Jefferson Beauregard Sessions Jr. business owner, Mother: Abbie (Powe) Sessions  Marriage: Mary Blackshear Sessions ( )  Children: Mary Abigail, Ruth and Samuel, Education: Huntingdon College, B. A. 1969 University of Alabama, J. D. 1973, Military service: US Army Reserve,   Captain  Religion: Methodist, Other Facts:Is an Eagle Scout. Serves on the Senate Budget, Judiciary, Armed Services, and Environment and Public Works Committees. Voted against both of President Barack Obama’s Supreme Court nominees, Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan.  Supports building fencing along the US border, saying in 2006 that ”good fences make good neighbors.” Opponent of the 2013 ”Gang of Eight” immigration reform bill.   Timeline:    Practices law in Alabama.     Assistant US Attorney for the Southern District of Alabama.     US Attorney for the Southern District of Alabama.  1986   President Ronald Reagan nominates Sessions to become a federal judge. The Senate Judiciary Committee opposes the nomination following testimony that Sessions made racist remarks and called the NAACP and ACLU ” .”    Alabama Attorney General. During this time, an Alabama judge accuses Sessions of prosecutorial misconduct related to the handling of evidence in a case but ultimately, Sessions is not disciplined for ethics violations.   1996   Elected to the US Senate.   in 2002, 2008 and 2014.   2017   Republican senator representing Alabama. February 2, 2009   Votes in favor of the confirmation of Eric Holder as attorney general.  April 23, 2015   Votes against the confirmation of Loretta Lynch as attorney general. February 28, 2016   Becomes the first sitting US senator to endorse Donald Trump’s presidential bid.  November 18, 2016     Donald Trump announces he intends to nominate Sessions to be the next attorney general. January 3, 2017   An NAACP   to protest the nomination of Sessions as US attorney general ends when six people are arrested at Sessions’ Mobile, Alabama, office. February 8, 2017   After 30 hours of debate, the US Senate confirms Sessions as attorney general by a   vote. March 1, 2017   The Washington Post reports that Sessions failed to disclose   meetings with the top Russian diplomat in Washington. Sessions did not mention either meeting during his confirmation hearings when he said he knew of no contacts between Trump surrogates and Russians.  March 2, 2017   Sessions recuses himself from any involvement in a Justice Department probe into links between the Trump campaign and Moscow. April 3, 2017   The Justice Department releases a memorandum ordering a review of consent decrees and other police reforms overseen by the federal government in response to complaints of civil rights abuses and public safety issues. During his confirmation hearing, Sessions expressed skepticism about the effectiveness of Justice Department interventions in local police matters.  