RIO DE JANEIRO  —   The problem of the suddenly green water in the Olympic diving pool worsened Wednesday as whatever was ailing the pool migrated (albeit in a lighter shade of green) to the nearby pool used for water polo and synchronized swimming. But Olympic officials said that after extensive tests, they had finally pinpointed the reason: a chemical imbalance caused by too many people using the water. There had been speculation Tuesday that algae was the cause, but that theory was dismissed by officials. “Midafternoon, there was a sudden decrease in the alkalinity in the diving pool, and that’s the main reason the color changed,” Mario Andrada, a Rio 2016 spokesman, said Wednesday morning. He noted that a lot of people had been in the pools in the past week at the Maria Lenk Aquatic Center, and that their presence had touched off changes in the water’s chemical balance. “We probably failed to note that with more athletes, the water could be affected,” Andrada said. He said, too, that the water had not been monitored as carefully as it should have been and that the trouble was apparently exacerbated by Wednesday morning’s rain. “The people in charge of the pool should have done more intensive tests,” he said. “We brought in a team of independent experts to check. ” Andrada said that there was no health risk to the athletes and that “the pool should go back to its classic blue colors during the day. ” The alarmingly swift transformation of the diving pool from aqua to swamp green on Tuesday spurred the usual social media hilarity, with much of the speculation focusing on the possibility of athletes’ using the pool for a bodily function generally frowned upon at pools. Nope, said Nate Hernandez, director of aquatic solutions at VivoAquatics, a pool care company based in California whose clients include hotels and resorts. “To be honest, people pee in the pool all the time  —   this wouldn’t affect it,” he said via email. Pool experts said that with decent pool maintenance, water in a pool should not change color so drastically and quickly. “If the pool’s systems are properly sized with adequate filtration and using appropriate chemical distribution, they should be able to maintain clarity and sanitation even during peak use,” Jamie Novak, a brand manager at NC Brands, a swimming pool and spa chemical manufacturer in Connecticut, said in an email. Hernandez said that failing to anticipate and plan for a large number of swimmers at an event like the Olympics, which by definition attracts a large number of swimmers, seemed a weird sort of mistake. “Take a pool like the Hard Rock in Las Vegas,” he said. “On a Sunday in the summertime, we’ll put 5, 000 people in that water at one time. The most we’ve ever had is about 8, 200, and it has never turned green. ” The Rio Games have had their share of   troubles, particularly at the rowing and sailing venues, where the water is contaminated by a toxic stew of bacteria and pathogens. A visit Wednesday afternoon showed that the diving pool was still a fairly dark shade of green while the pool for water polo and synchronized swimming was somewhat lighter, more of a sea glass green. Officials said the alkalinity levels were already improving.