WASHINGTON  —   The Obama administration on Thursday said it was shifting $81 million away from biomedical research and antipoverty and health care programs to pay for the development of a Zika vaccine, resorting to extraordinary measures because Congress has failed to approve new funding to combat the virus. Sylvia Mathews Burwell, the secretary of health and human services, told members of Congress in a letter that without the diverted funds, the National Institutes of Health and the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority would run out of money to confront the   illness by the end of the month. That would force the development of a vaccine to stop at a critical time, as locally acquired cases of Zika infection increase in Miami. As of last week, 7, 350 cases of Zika had been reported in the United States, most in Puerto Rico, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Ms. Burwell said that 15 infants had been born with   birth defects. The virus can cause abnormal brain development and other serious defects in children born to infected mothers. The local spread of the illness in the continental United States, with the first cases reported late last month, has raised the political stakes surrounding the federal government’s response. Hillary Clinton on Tuesday made a campaign stop in Wynwood, the Miami neighborhood that has had a rash of locally transmitted Zika cases, and pressed Congress to return from its   break to approve emergency funding to fight the virus. President Obama and congressional Republicans have been at odds for most of the year over Zika. In February, Mr. Obama requested $1. 9 billion in emergency funding. Republicans balked, demanding a more detailed accounting of where the money would go. Lawmakers have feuded for months over how much money should be earmarked and how it should be spent. Last month, Democrats blocked consideration of a Republican measure that would have allocated $1. 1 billion to fight Zika but included provisions that would have banned funding for Planned Parenthood to provide contraception related to the virus, which can be sexually transmitted. The deadlock prompted the White House in April to shift $589 million in Ebola funding to the Zika effort, about   of it designated for domestic use. On Thursday, Ms. Burwell said that her department had used most of that money, and that it would be gone by the end of August. “The failure to pass a Zika emergency supplemental has forced the administration to choose between delaying critical vaccine development work and raiding other worthy government programs to temporarily avoid these delays,” Ms. Burwell wrote. Democrats seized on the announcement to berate Republicans for failing to provide additional money for Zika. At a news conference, Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the minority leader, called on Representative Paul D. Ryan, the House speaker, to bring Congress back to advance such a measure. “Every possible option is being exhausted, and now we’re going into the National Institutes of Health, which is supposed to be a priority,” Ms. Pelosi said. Aides to Mr. Ryan said that shifting the funds was a   step that the Obama administration had delayed to squeeze maximum political advantage out of the Zika issue. The National Institutes of Health announced last week that it had begun clinical trials of a Zika vaccine on 80 human subjects, and hoped to begin a second phase in “  countries” in early 2017. But without more funding now, officials said Thursday, the research would halt in its tracks. Ms. Burwell said she would transfer to the Zika efforts $34 million in N. I. H. funds that had been designated to find treatments for other diseases, including cancer and diabetes. Another $47 million will be transferred to the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority, which supports the development of drugs and vaccines to respond to public health emergencies. That money will come out of a variety of accounts, including $19 million from a program that supplies heating oil subsidies for   families and $4 million from substance abuse programs such as those for opioid addiction. Even then, Ms. Burwell said, the additional money will last only through next month, at which point agencies would have to “severely curtail many of their critical efforts” against Zika without action from Congress. In the last four months, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention spent $60 million to help states protect pregnant women, $25 million to strengthen their Zika preparedness and response plans, and $16 million to help them create   systems to quickly detect microcephaly and other   syndromes.