 (CNN) It was a contest which was supposed to get football fans drooling    but in the end it was nothing more than a damp squib. Germany and Poland played out the first goalless draw of Euro 2016, in a game which the world champion flattered to deceive. Poland, which had only ever beaten Germany once, might have won this tie had striker Arkadiusz Milik not wasted two wonderful opportunities. The result, which leaves the teams level on four points from two games, means they should both qualify for the knockout stage, though Northern Ireland could yet spring a surprise. Read: Hailstorm halts Northern Ireland vs. Ukraine tie, A tight and cagey first half led to few chances, although it was Germany which created the best opening in the opening few minutes. Julian Draxler, playing on the left, produced a fine cross to pick out Mario Gotze but the forward sent his header over the crossbar. Germany, which won its opening game against Ukraine, went close again soon after when Toni Kroos fired just wide after neat play by Thomas Muller. Neither side mustered a shot on target in a game punctuated by stoppages and fouls. ”All in all, a draw is a fair result, but I’m not happy with it,” German coach Joachim Low said. We have to live with the point though. We played well defensively and hardly allowed them any chances. However, we didn’t really have any answers going forward.  ”Poland had one or two opportunities, but Manu didn’t have to make a single save. We worked hard in midfield, but we were just lacking that final ball.” Poland, whose first win against Germany came during qualifying for this tournament in 2014, had barely threatened in the first 45 minutes. But within seconds of the restart it should have been ahead. Read: English fans taunt begging children at Euro 2016, Kamil Grosicki found time and space on the right and he picked out the unmarked Milik, who somehow managed to miss the target from five yards. It was a poor effort from the forward, who appeared to be in two minds whether to head the ball or not    in the end it skimmed off him and wide of the post. Germany appeared to be struggling with Poland’s ability to break at pace, and Jerome Boateng had to produce a fine tackle to prevent his Bayern Munich club Robert Lewandowski running through on goal. Milik, who scored in Poland’s opening win over Northern Ireland, missed another great opportunity when he miskicked from 10 yards after Grosicki picked him out with a pinpoint cross from the left. Germany, despite enjoying the majority of the possession, had rarely tested Lukasz Fabianski in the Poland goal. Arsenal’s Mesut Ozil forced a sharp save from the Swansea keeper as the game became stretched going into the final 20 minutes. Both teams attempted to find a winning goal, though neither looked likely of creating an opening as the contest petered out in rather disappointing fashion. ”We controlled the game well,” Poland coach Adam Nawalka said. ”Germany had the initiative for a couple of spells because we allowed them space, but we created some good chances on the counter, and better ones than we did against Northern Ireland.  ”I’m happy with our performance and our tactical discipline the team was very alert. A   draw is a fantastic result.” While the match may not have been a spectacle, it does leave both teams in a strong position to qualify for the last 16. Germany’s next game will be against Northern Ireland on Tuesday    a team which would leapfrog Low’s side with a shock victory in Paris. Poland face a Ukraine team which has lost both games and was eliminated from the tournament following Thursday’s results. Read more: Full Euro 2016 coverage, Who will win Euro 2016? Have your say on our Facebook page