 (CNN) Tired of your typical office meetings and generic ”thank you” notes? Microsoft and Starbucks are joining forces to boost your inbox with a caffeine jolt.  A plugin released on Wednesday allows Microsoft Outlook users to email Starbucks electronic gift cards and to set up meetings at nearby Starbucks locations.    The Starbucks for Outlook free   available for Outlook   Outlook on the web and Outlook. com, can be installed by going to Microsoft’s website. ”In this   hyperconnected world, where meetings are often conducted remotely or in a formal office setting, we sometimes lose a personal connection which is so important in building a great business relationship,” Microsoft wrote on its website. ”Outlook now makes it easier for you to have that personal connection by enabling you to meet your customers, business partners or study group at your favorite Starbucks location.” The tech company expressed an interest in continuing to explore ways to expand the collaboration with Starbucks to benefit a broad spectrum of users worldwide. It also wants to stress the importance of personal connections at the workplace, a Microsoft representative said. ”When you consider how one in every seven people use Office every day to get work done    that is a massive reach Starbucks now has for business users,” Microsoft’s representative said. Starbucks is one of the most popular coffee chains in the United States it has a mobile app and now it’s also in your email. It’s a strategy for the beverage company to reach more of its fans outside its stores. ”We are always looking for new ways to engage with our customers outside our stores. Our work with [Microsoft] Office is opening up new opportunities for us to connect with our customers and save them time,” a Starbucks spokesperson said. The   has been well received by the public since its release, according to Microsoft.  ”We’ve heard feedback that customers enjoy the overall ease of use, as well as the convenience of gifting and scheduling meetings at the nearest Starbucks locations.” So, think of your next coffee run as a business rendezvous.