Sam Sifton emails readers of Cooking five days a week to talk about food and suggest recipes. That email also appears here. To receive it in your inbox, register here. Good morning. Up for a clambake? Mark Bittman gave us a recipe for an ultimate clambake a few years ago that is deeply involved but really quite easy, and if you have access to beach, rocks and fire, it may make for a glorious summer feast this weekend. If you partake, please document your work, sending photographs or “stories” to our social accounts on Instagram, Twitter or Facebook. We’ll send ’em around proudly. #NYTCooking! #NYTClambake! Less complicated but no less an awesome weekend activity would be to make the recipe for cold lobster with lobster mayonnaise that Mark and I ginned up a while back for a dinner party here in New York. You could grill some pizzas. You could make Kim Severson’s recipe for tamarind shrimp with coconut milk. Or you could just make Florence Fabricant’s recipe for chicken paillards with corn salad and watch the Olympics like a normal person. I’d love to make some pies this weekend. I’d be down to make fried chicken. I think it’d be nice to make David Tanis’s recipe for garbanzos and greens with chorizo. It’d be just as pleasurable to make the recipe for Jordan Marsh’s blueberry muffins, which Marian Burros brought to The Times back in 1987. And, as always, I’ll make a big batch of granola to eat for breakfast all next week with thick yogurt and plenty of fruit. How about you? Take a scroll through Cooking to see what appeals, and save the recipes you’re interested in making to your recipe box. Send them along to family and friends for review, either by emailing them or by posting them to social media, the bustling town square of our age. And then let us know  —   all of us in this growing community of cooks!  —   what you think of them by rating the recipes and leaving notes on them. Of course we’ll be standing by to help if anything goes sideways. Just reach out to cookingcare@nytimes. com. Now, won’t you join me in the wayback machine for this reprise of a road trip I took a decade ago to eat salmon in the Pacific Northwest? In more recent news, check out this promising dispatch from The Boston Globe about a rebound of cod in Newfoundland. (Or read this more depressing one from Outside: 10 normal people on the costs of living in a mountain town.) Finally, it is the Glorious Twelfth in Britain today, the opening of   season and, not incidentally, a day of rage for those who abhor the killings on the moors. Still, those of you who patronize   restaurants may see the birds showing up on menus some time next week. Look out! Have a good weekend.