London (CNN) It’s a long time since the names of Prost and Senna have graced the same motorsport podium but in London on Saturday history repeated itself. The penultimate race of the Formula E season saw drivers battle the elements as well as a narrow track with Nico Prost, son of   Formula One world champion and Renault e. Dams   Alain, taking the checkered flag. The Frenchman dominated the race, leading from start to finish around the 2.  Battersea Park circuit with Bruno Senna a distant second and DS Virgin Racing’s   Vergne placing third.  ”For me it was a stroll in the park    the car today was just amazing!” said Prost who hadn’t been atop the podium since the 2015 Miami ePrix. For Senna, the nephew of the late   F1 world champion Ayrton, a podium also marked an upturn in fortunes    the result was his and Mahindra Racing’s best result in the   race series. ”I’m so happy the car was working really well today,” Senna said. ”It’s nice to see Nico on the podium.” Prost’s emphatic win comes at the end of a frustrating season which has seen him play second fiddle to his Renault e. Dams teammate Sebastien Buemi.  Buemi, who is vying for the drivers’ title with Lucas di Grassi, could only manage fifth after struggling to 14th in a   qualifying session earlier in the day. All the talk before the weekend had centered on the battle for the drivers’ title between Buemi and ABT Schaeffler driver di Grassi    the pair have won three races each this season and were separated by a single point before today’s ePrix. Di Grassi    who qualified 11th    finished one place above Buemi in fourth, and now has a   lead    153 points to 150    heading into tomorrow’s   race.    Despite losing part of his front wing in a collision with Vergne on lap 26 of the   race, di Grassi managed to hold off Buemi, repelling several attacks around the twists and turns of the temporary park circuit. ”It’s clear that the Renault has a much better car, so I think we did a really good job to keep him behind,” di Grassi said.  With one more race to go on Sunday, the second season of Formula E is heading for a thrilling climax with tomorrow’s final ePrix result as unpredictable as the English weather. 