For years, the federal government avoided insuring mortgages in black neighborhoods, a practice known as redlining that exacerbated racial divides throughout America’s cities. Redlining has long been outlawed, but in New York City, the federal government is again disproportionately hurting black homeowners, according to a federal lawsuit filed by a nonprofit that represents   New Yorkers. This time, the suit says, the government is fueling racial disparities not through its lending policies but in how it handles foreclosures. Since the financial crisis pushed thousands of homeowners in New York and across the country into foreclosure, the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development has been selling insured delinquent mortgages to private investors, typically hedge funds and private equity funds, which then collect monthly payments. The investors, according to the lawsuit filed against the housing agency and a large private equity firm, Lone Star Funds, provide fewer protections to homeowners who fall behind on their mortgage payments than the federal government does, leading to higher rates of foreclosure. Most of the mortgages being sold to these investors are in predominantly black neighborhoods like in southeast Queens and the Canarsie section of Brooklyn. From 2012 to 2014, more than 61 percent of the   mortgages sold to investors were in predominantly black neighborhoods, according to the lawsuit. Meanwhile, only about   of federally insured mortgages over all were issued in those same neighborhoods. Lawyers for the homeowners who filed the lawsuit say the concentration of the sales is putting black homeowners at greater risk of foreclosure and threatening to undermine decades of progress toward increasing homeownership in these neighborhoods. A spokesman for the housing agency declined to comment on the lawsuit. Caliber Home Loans, the mortgage firm under Lone Star, said the lawsuit was “without merit. ” “Caliber is committed to treating all borrowers fairly, to helping families stay in their homes where it is feasible, and has complied with all F. H. A.  servicing requirements,” the firm’s head of servicing, Marion McDougall, said in a statement, referring to the Federal Housing Administration. The lawsuit, filed on Friday by MFY Legal Services and the law firm Emery Celli Brinckerhoff  Abady in United States District Court in Brooklyn, is the latest tussle over how the government turned to Wall Street to help sort through the wreckage of the 2008 financial crisis. The mortgage sales are part of an effort by HUD to reduce the burden on its insurance fund that backstops home loans to   borrowers who have gone into default. “This lawsuit exposes that the historic racism that has kept our communities segregated, that has blocked   from sustainable homeownership, and that increases the racial wealth gap in this country is still alive and well,” said Elizabeth Lynch, a supervising attorney at MFY Legal Services. The sales to private investors had already been under criticism in Washington, leading the housing agency to put in new protections for homeowners whose federally backed mortgages change ownership. One new rule announced in June would require the private investors to consider reducing the total amount owed on a homeowner’s mortgage, known as a principal reduction. But these new rules will not apply to the more than 100, 000 mortgages already sold by HUD in a series of auctions. The battle over the mortgage sales has exposed a conundrum that the housing agency faces over its Federal Housing Administration mortgage program, which started in the 1930s. By selling the mortgages to the highest bidder  —   in this case private equity firms  —   the agency can bolster its insurance fund that had been eroded by the flood of foreclosures in the immediate aftermath of the housing crisis. The more flush the insurance fund, the more mortgages to   borrowers the department can backstop. But housing advocates say that the agency is contradicting its mission by selling mortgages to investors that they say are pushing homeowners closer to foreclosure with loan modifications that offer little relief. In some cases, the modifications can leave borrowers in even more financial distress. For example, according to the lawsuit, the terms of one typical offer of relief from Lone Star’s servicing arm require a large balloon payment five years after the modification that can, lawyers say, significantly increase a homeowner’s mortgage costs. Another feature of that same offer allows borrowers to pay only interest on their loans, leaving them with a large unpaid balance. Ultimately, advocates worry that investment firms will be able to take possession of more houses across New York City, one of the nation’s hottest real estate markets, where virtually every neighborhood is rapidly changing through gentrification. Mayor Bill de Blasio, a Democrat, has made affordable housing a centerpiece of his administration, unveiling plans to build or preserve about 200, 000 units over 10 years. It is part of his broader efforts to address the widening gap between the rich and the poor, which Mr. de Blasio says has been fueled in part by gentrification. In June, the city’s Housing Preservation and Development agency announced that it had bought a pool of mortgage notes from the federal housing department, in what housing advocates hoped could be an alternative to the sales to private investors. “We are fighting to help homeowners stay in the neighborhoods they helped build,” Mr. de Blasio said at the time. In the end, the city bought only 24 mortgage notes. By comparison, roughly 1, 100 federally insured mortgages were sold to private investors between 2012 and 2014, according to the lawsuit. Joseph Washington, a    butcher at a grocery store, took out a $326, 987 federally insured mortgage in 2011 to buy a   house in the St. Albans section of Queens. Mr. Washington fell behind on mortgage payments in 2013 when his fiancée moved out. He said he had been working with a servicing company to get a modification but was caught by surprise when his mortgage was sold to a private investor. His new servicer, he said, offered him a modification with a balloon payment that he believed was intended to make him eventually lose his home. From there, the offers only got worse, said Mr. Washington, who is black. In July 2015, the servicer offered him an option that would allow him to pay only the interest on his loan but then require him to eventually make a balloon payment of $30, 342 on Nov. 1, 2041, when he will be 78, the lawsuit says. “They are trying to force you out of the house,” Mr. Washington said.