A Clinton with a trust problem. We’ve seen that before. It was 1992, and doubts about Bill Clinton’s integrity, stoked by his marital infidelities and avoidance of the Vietnam War, were the biggest threat to his presidential campaign. Stanley Greenberg, a top Democratic campaign strategist, devised a secret plan to turn around the candidate’s reputation for dishonesty. In the latest episode of The   we talked to Mr. Greenberg about how Mr. Clinton pulled it off, and what lessons it holds for his wife, Hillary, whose image problems as a   today are even greater than her husband’s were in the 1990s, surveys show. As of the latest New York Times poll, 67 percent of registered voters have doubts about her trustworthiness. We speak with Lissa Muscatine, a longtime adviser and speechwriter for Mrs. Clinton, about how those closest to the Democratic nominee have tried to combat this image  —   and about the   habits and instincts that can unintentionally hurt Mrs. Clinton as she tries to escape it. And we talk to Mark Landler, a White House correspondent for The Times, about the   episodes, from Benghazi, Libya, to a private email server, which have contributed to Mrs. Clinton’s troubles. Did she mislead the public in these cases or not? Few people are better positioned to know than Mr. Landler, who wrote a book about her time as secretary of state called “Alter Egos: Hillary Clinton, Barack Obama, and the Twilight Struggle Over American Power. ” “Why wasn’t she willing to have a government email account like every other employee of the state department?” Mr. Landler asked on The  . “That goes to the broader issue around the Clintons: that they simply don’t view themselves as being subject to the same regulations that the rest of the world has to comply with. ” Please let us know what you think of the show. You can reach us at therunup@nytimes. com, or find me on Twitter, and you can leave ratings and feedback on iTunes. From a desktop or laptop, you can listen by pressing play on the button above. Or if you’re on a mobile device, the instructions below will help you find and subscribe to the series. On your iPhone or iPad: 1. Open your podcast app. It’s a   app called “Podcasts” with a purple icon. 2. Search for the series. Tap on the “search” magnifying glass icon at the bottom of the screen, type in “The  ” and select it from the list of results. 3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, tap on the “subscribe” button to have new episodes sent to your phone free. You may want to adjust your notifications to be alerted when a new episode arrives. 4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before deciding to subscribe, just tap on the episode title from the list on the series page. If you have an internet connection, you’ll be able to stream the episode. On your Android phone or tablet: 1. Open your podcast app. It’s a   app called “Play Music” with an    icon. 2. Search for the series. Click on the magnifying glass icon at the top of the screen, search for the name of the series and select it from the list of results. You may have to scroll down to find the “Podcasts” search results. 3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, click on the word “subscribe” to have new episodes sent to your phone free. 4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before deciding to subscribe, just click on the episode title from the list on the series page. If you have an internet connection, you’ll be able to stream the episode.