 (CNN) Forces loyal to Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan quashed a coup attempt by some members of the military that began Friday evening and devolved into turmoil and violence. At least 290 died and more than 1, 400 were wounded, according to Turkey’s Foreign Ministry. Around 6, 000 people have been detained so far. Here’s what happened, and when (all times Turkish local time): Suddenly, chaos, confusion, Turkey, Friday night: Tanks roll onto the streets of the capital, Ankara, and Istanbul. Who ordered them there is unclear. Uniformed soldiers block the famous Bosphorus Bridge connecting the European and Asian sides of Istanbul. Cars flow from the European side to the Asian side, but soldiers and military vehicles block the path to the European side. Some 300 people gather in Istanbul’s Taksim Square, some waving Turkish flags. Army tanks and a military vehicle sit at the square.  Video and photos on social media show large crowds marching through the streets, some taunting soldiers as Turkish military fire guns in the air. Get up to speed: Military coup in 90 seconds, Gunfire rings out as a confused nation watches. Social media falls silent, Friday, 10:50 p. m.: Facebook, Twitter and YouTube experience interruptions or outages in Turkey. Turkey Blocks, a group that tracks censorship in Turkey, tweets that all three services are blocked in the country. Dyn, another service that tracks Internet performance globally, reports that Facebook and Twitter are blocked for ”about an hour.” Turkey’s currency plunges amid coup attempt  Military moves in, Friday, 11:25 p. m.: A faction of the military issues a declaration, saying the ”political administration that has lost all legitimacy has been forced to withdraw.”  Turkish state broadcaster TRT says it has been taken over by members of the military who were part of the coup attempt.  CNN Turk reports that soldiers have entered its building as well, and have forced the network off the air.  Watch CNN Turk’s final moments on air before soldier shut it down  FaceTime with the President, Saturday, 12:26 a. m. : Hours after the attempted coup against him began, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan addresses the nation via FaceTime.  Speaking to an anchor on CNN Turk, who holds up her phone so viewers can see, Erdogan urges people to take to the streets to stand up to the military faction behind the uprising. ”Go to the streets and give them their answer,” he says. He says   officers launched the coup, rebelling against senior officers.  ”Those who are responsible, we will give them the necessary punishment,” he adds. Confronting a coup, Saturday, 1:50 a. m.: Gunshots crack the night at the presidential complex in Ankara and there are reports of helicopters opening fire at the national intelligence headquarters.  Videos and photos posted on social media show crowds marching through the streets    some marchers facing off against tanks and armored vehicles.  Crowds also gather at Istanbul’s    the site of a terror attack just two weeks ago. Saturday, 2:51 a. m.:  The Turkish National Intelligence unit claims the coup is over. Meanwhile, there are reports of bombs thrown outside the parliament building in Ankara. ’Stain on Democracy’ Saturday, 3:20 a. m.: President Erdogan lands at Istanbul’s airport, having flown from the seaside resort of Marmaris. Turkey’s deputy prime minister, Mehmet Simsek, tells CNN by phone that the government is in full control after a failed coup attempt. 6:30 a. m.: As dawn breaks,  Erdogan is hailed by a throng of cheering supporters. He declares the coup over and says it was treason. ”The government is in control,” he says. ”Fifty percent of the people elected the President and that President is on duty.”  Video footage from Istanbul’s Bosphorus Bridge shows soldiers apparently involved in the coup attempt surrendering en masse, walking away from tanks and abandoning their posts. Daylight brings clearer pictures of the coup’s chaos.  Dead and wounded, most in civilian clothes, are seen in street scenes posted online. And from Ankara, there are pictures of serious damage to the Turkish parliament. 12:20 p. m.: Prime Minister Binali Yildirim tells a news conference the attempted coup is a ”stain on democracy”. He says the plotters will ”be punished in every way they deserve.”  7:30 p. m.: Erdogan speaks to another cheering,   crowd, blaming the coup attempt on rival Fethullah Gulen,  a cleric and former ally who lives in exile in Pennsylvania.  Erdogan demands the United States arrest or extradite Gulen. ”This country suffered a lot in the hands of the Gulen movement,”  Erdogan declares.