SYDNEY, Australia  —   A detention center in Papua New Guinea where Australia has sent hundreds of asylum seekers will be closed, the governments of both countries said Wednesday. But neither side said when it would be shut down or what would be done with the people held there. The center, on Manus Island, a rugged, volcanic outcrop, is one of two such detention centers that Australia maintains in the Pacific to house migrants it has intercepted on the way to its shores, a policy that rights groups and the United Nations have criticized. In April, Papua New Guinea’s Supreme Court declared the center illegal, and the governments have held discussions since then about how to proceed. But few details about the future of the 960 asylum seekers being held there were disclosed Wednesday. “A series of options are being advanced,” Papua New Guinea’s prime minister, Peter O’Neill, said in a statement announcing that both governments had agreed to close the center. Australia’s minister for immigration and border protection, Peter Dutton, said the move would not change his country’s refusal to accept asylum seekers who try to reach its shores by boat. “No one from Manus Island Regional Processing Center will ever be settled in Australia,” Mr. Dutton said in a statement. He has said in the past that asylum seekers granted refugee status could resettle in Papua New Guinea, though few have been allowed to do so, and that those denied asylum should be sent back to their home countries. Australia’s government, which has maintained a   policy toward asylum seekers to discourage migrants from trying the dangerous sea voyage, has said it is for Papua New Guinea to decide what to do with the asylum seekers at the Manus detention center. A senator in the Australian Greens Party, Sarah   said Wednesday that the asylum seekers should be resettled in Australia. “The government must ensure that these people are given a chance to rebuild their lives in safety in Australia,” Ms.   said in a statement. The conditions at the center, and at another on Nauru, a tiny island nation, have come under scrutiny. The United Nations has said that Australia’s treatment of asylum seekers at the offshore centers is cruel, inhuman and degrading, and that it violates international law. Detainees on Manus Island have contracted malaria and typhoid, and there have been reports of a lack of toilet paper and running water. Guards there have also been accused of brutality and of failing to protect detainees. Conditions at the detention center on Nauru have also been  described as harsh and dispiriting. The Guardian released documents this month from the Nauru center that detailed reports of child sexual abuse, assault and   among asylum seekers. About 1, 000 asylum seekers are living on Nauru. “Australia’s international reputation has been enormously damaged by the establishment of offshore camps,” said Tim O’Connor, acting chief executive of the Refugee Council of Australia, which represents 200 groups that support asylum seekers. “It has done enormous damage to the thousands of individuals who have been trapped in this system. The refugees should immediately be brought to Australia. ” Leaders of Australia’s governing parties and the main opposition Labor Party have said the country’s   policy has led to a steady decrease in the number of asylum seekers attempting to reach their shores, and the officials have shown few signs of wanting to change the policy.