The rules of the job market aren’t the same for older workers. As men and women 55 and older looking for employment probably suspect, at a certain point the kinds of jobs available to them narrow significantly. New research by Matthew Rutledge, an economist at the Center for Retirement Research at Boston College, found that they are increasingly being funneled into what he describes as “ ” jobs. And not surprisingly, older workers with the least education have the narrowest set of opportunities, though Mr. Rutledge found this effect was small. It turns out that “ ” jobs are a mix of   service work (like managers, sales supervisors and accountants) and   service work (like truck drivers, janitors and nursing aides). Absent from the top of the list are jobs calling for a fair amount of physical labor. Jobs in farming, manufacturing and repair represent less than a quarter of all new hires in this age bracket. Manufacturing employment has been in steep decline for over 20 years, but even within this shrinking sector, older workers are less likely to be hired for manufacturing jobs than their younger peers. For example, men and women age 55 to 64 are 25 percent less likely to get machine operator jobs and 58 percent less likely to get metal worker jobs. Instead, older workers are finding employment in   service jobs. They are 65 percent more likely to find work in child care, 93 percent more likely to work as cabdrivers and twice as likely to find work in retail. Mr. Rutledge found that job losses among this group were greatest for     jobs like machinists and clerks. Mr. Rutledge also looked for patterns in jobs that favor the older worker. Using a database that classifies each job based on the kinds of skills it requires, Mr. Rutledge found that jobs held in greater proportion by older workers tended to require higher levels of dependability and outdoor work and lower levels of active learning, numerical ability and physical skills. So, other things being equal, they are at a disadvantage for engineering jobs, but did better in real estate sales or property management. He also found that over all, these jobs tended to pay less. Jobs that favor older workers tend to pay 6 to 11 percent less than jobs that favor younger workers, mostly because these jobs call for less skill. But despite such obstacles, older people haven’t stopped turning up to work. What’s also important to remember is that the older workers in this employment data are the winners in the labor market: They’re the ones who managed to find work. The truth is that many older   workers don’t. Using a longitudinal survey of households and individuals from the census, Richard Johnson, a senior fellow at the Urban Institute, found that, between 2008 and 2012, workers age 62 and older with a college degree had less than a 50 percent chance of finding work even after two years of actively looking. For the same age group without a college degree, the chances fell to 35 percent. The participation rates of baby boomers would be expected to drop as a natural consequence of aging. And this is happening. However, partly because of the Great Recession, older people have entered the work force in greater numbers than in the past. Gary Burtless, an economist at the Brookings Institution, found that between 2007 and 2014, the largest growth in the labor force among all age groups was 62 to 64 men’s participation grew 2. 9 percent, and women’s grew 4. 5 percent. This is in marked contrast to a mysterious decline in the labor force participation rate by prime age workers. There are several reasons you might see more older workers in the labor force today compared with previous generations. Fewer have pensions. Many had their finances severely damaged during the recession. People are living longer and healthier lives, and work is less physically demanding than it used to be. Additionally, the extension of unemployment benefits created an incentive for people who otherwise would have retired to continue looking for work. But still: fewer choices, lower pay, more rejections. Are these signs of age discrimination? Using a method of uncovering discrimination well known in economics, David Neumark, an economist at the University of California at Irvine, led a study that sent out 40, 000 fake résumés to employers who had posted openings. Mr. Neumark and his   found that résumés suggesting an applicant was 64 to 66 years old got a response 35 percent less often than résumés suggesting that the applicant was 29 to 31. Labeling it discrimination is another matter, however. “The one thing that people always point out is that acceptability for age stereotyping is extremely high,” Mr. Neumark said. “The number of people who make   jokes are way more frequent than people who make   jokes. For whatever reason, the social stigma for age discrimination is really weak. ” Aside from fairness, evidence suggests that finding ways to keep older Americans working has benefits to the broader society: Working keeps older Americans happier, healthier and more mentally engaged. And forestalling retirement could relieve some of the pressure a large aging population places on this country’s social safety net. “Governments all over the world are trying to figure how to get old people to stay at work longer,” Mr. Neumark said. “If we have discriminatory barriers, then all these reforms will be less effective.“