The man who scaled Trump Tower last week told investigators he did so for “the publicity,” which he hoped would earn him a meeting with Donald J. Trump, Manhattan prosecutors said in court on Wednesday. Prosecutors said the man, Stephen Rogata, 19, made the statement after he was detained for the Aug. 10 stunt. It turned into an international spectacle, streamed over social media and broadcast by television news. Mr. Rogata appeared in Criminal Court through a video link to Bellevue Hospital Center, where he has been under psychiatric care since the episode. Wearing a pale blue hospital outfit, his brown hair covering most of his face, Mr. Rogata sat quietly as prosecutors read the charges, including reckless endangerment and criminal trespassing. Judge Kevin McGrath set bail at $10, 000 cash or $5, 000 bond. Prosecutors said Mr. Rogata, who lives in Virginia, walked into the Midtown tower’s atrium, sneaked into a   area and began his climb of the building’s exterior on the fifth floor. Mr. Rogata had been scaling the building for nearly three hours when he was grabbed by officers who had removed a window on the 21st floor. The climb, which was watched by millions of viewers on television and online, as well as hundreds of people from the streets below, was the latest   chapter for Trump Tower, since Mr. Trump began his presidential campaign there last summer. On Wednesday, Pierre Griffith, an assistant district attorney, said that Mr. Rogata told investigators he had wanted to give Mr. Trump, the Republican nominee, “secret information” that “has to do with when he’s president, how he’s going to govern. ” Prosecutors said Mr. Rogata told investigators that he had hoped to make it to the top of the   building but also knew he would quite likely be arrested. Mr. Rogata, prosecutors said, waited for his parents to leave home before driving to New York City, where he arrived on Aug. 9. He bought climbing equipment online in the weeks before the stunt and practiced on a   building in Virginia, Mr. Griffith said. Mr. Griffith asked the judge for a $20, 000 bail, saying several items fell out of Mr. Rogata’s backpack as he climbed, including a laptop computer. “This defendant’s crime endangered not only himself and people beneath him,” but also emergency responders, he said. But Judge McGrath lowered the amount after being petitioned by Mr. Rogata’s lawyer, Tara Collins of the Legal Aid Society. Ms. Collins said Mr. Rogata had been receiving psychiatric treatment at Bellevue. She described him as a good student  —   a member of the debate and the cross country teams in high school  —   who volunteered for Mitt Romney’s 2012 presidential campaign. He works at a plant nursery, she said. She described Mr. Rogata’s father as a “ ” officer in the Navy with a specialty in flight navigation, and said both of his parents had visited him at the hospital. Mr. Rogata, she said, “did something that was profoundly stupid with hopes of meeting someone who he will never get to meet. ”