New York (CNN) A former Prime Minister of Portugal remained the   to become the next U. N.   after a second secret straw poll taken in the Security Council on Friday. Antonio Guterres, who also is a former U. N. refugee agency chief, had more positive votes    11    than his 10 rivals for the position in Friday’s nonbinding poll, diplomats told CNN on condition of anonymity. He also topped a similar poll in the   council last month, diplomats said. However, it may be significant that he also received negative votes    two, diplomats said    for the first time. The straw polls are part of a process that is expected to end by this fall with the United Nations declaring a successor to   Ban   whose second   term ends December 31. Although there is technically no limit to the number of terms a   may serve, Ban is not seeking a third term, opening the door for the world body to have its ninth leader since its inception 71 years ago. No   has held office for more than two terms. Perhaps by October, the Security Council will recommend a candidate to the   General Assembly, which would approve the choice by consensus applause. But each of the Security Council’s five permanent members    the United States, Russia, China, the United Kingdom and France    holds a veto, so those five must agree on a candidate before he or she is presented to the full assembly. The council’s straw polls, such as Friday’s, are held in part to encourage a thinning of the field, with those not doing well perhaps getting the hint. In Friday’s poll, the council’s 15 members were given choices for each of the 11 candidates: ”encourage” (stay in the race) ”discourage” (take a hint) or ”no opinion.” Many potential major candidates drew several ”discourage” votes Friday, diplomats said, which means countries are trying to signal candidates either to withdraw or prepare for a long slog of big power negotiating.  The next round of voting has not been scheduled. Some other results from Friday’s poll, according to diplomats: • Vuk Jeremic, former Serbian foreign minister and the youngest candidate in the field, fared better than last month, receiving the   positive votes. He had ”discourage” votes, though. • Argentinian Foreign Minister Susana Malcorra also moved higher, to third place. She received six negative votes. • Former Slovenian President Danilo Turk dropped from second place to fourth. He also received five ”discourage” votes. • U. N. development chief Helen Clark, from New Zealand, placed in the middle of the pack, but with eight ”discourage” votes.  Eastern European nations feel it is their region’s turn to produce a   based on an informal global rotation pattern not defined in the U. N. Charter. Jeremic was the highest finisher from that zone. It is still possible to have a new candidate who senses failure by the current 11 contenders or believes the large   countries will look elsewhere.