 (CNN)”I can no longer stay silent.” So says Michael Jordan, widely considered the best NBA player of all time but someone who has refrained from using his celebrity to take a public stand on social issues. Jordan, who owns the Charlotte Hornets, published a   letter on The Undefeated, a new ESPN platform dedicated to exploring the intersections of race, sports and culture. In that letter, posted Monday, Jordan said that he would be donating $1 million each to the International Association of Chiefs of Police’s newly established Institute for   Relations and the NAACP Legal Defense Fund. The Hall of Famer also sheds light on violence from a personal perspective. Jordan’s father, James Jordan, was gunned down by two robbers in 1993. ”As a proud American, a father who lost his own dad in a senseless act of violence, and a black man, I have been deeply troubled by the deaths of   at the hands of law enforcement and angered by the cowardly and hateful targeting and killing of police officers,” Jordan wrote. ”I grieve with the families who have lost loved ones, as I know their pain all too well. ”I was raised by parents who taught me to love and respect people regardless of their race or background, so I am saddened and frustrated by the divisive rhetoric and racial tensions that seem to be getting worse as of late. I know this country is better than that, and I can no longer stay silent. We need to find solutions that ensure people of color receive fair and equal treatment AND that police officers    who put their lives on the line every day to protect us all    are respected and supported.” Jordan’s letter comes two and a half weeks after an Army veteran shot and killed five police officers in Dallas, saying he was angry over police shootings of black men. Jordan also wrote that while he has the ”greatest respect” for the sacrifice and service of people in law enforcement, he recognizes that his experiences with law enforcement are different for him than for many other people of color. ”I have decided to speak out in the hope that we can come together as Americans, and through peaceful dialogue and education, achieve constructive change,” he said. As a star player with lucrative endorsement deals, Jordan wasn’t known for taking a stand on issues, prompting NBA icon and activist Kareem   to say in an NPR interview in November that Jordan ”took commerce over conscience.” But that appears to have changed in recent months. Prior to his letter, Jordan spoke out on North Carolina’s controversial  bathroom bill in his efforts to keep the NBA   Game in Charlotte. ”As my organization has stated previously, the Charlotte Hornets and Hornets Sports  Entertainment are opposed to discrimination in any form, and we have always sought to provide an inclusive environment,” Jordan said in a statement to the Charlotte Observer in April. The 2017   Game ultimately was moved from Charlotte and will be played at a     location. Jordan also issued a strong statement in April 2014 about former Los Angeles Clippers owner Donald Sterling, who was banned for life by NBA Commissioner Adam Silver after making racist remarks to his   about not wanting her to bring black people to games. ”I look at this from two perspectives    as a current owner and a former player,” Jordan said then. ”As an owner, I’m obviously disgusted that a fellow team owner could hold such sickening and offensive views. . .. As a former player, I’m completely outraged. There is no room in the NBA    or anywhere else    for the kind of racism and hatred that Mr. Sterling allegedly expressed.  ”I am appalled that this type of ignorance still exists within our country and at the highest levels of our sport. In a league where the majority of players are   we cannot and must not tolerate discrimination at any level.”