The State Department conceded for the first time on Thursday that it delayed making a $400 million payment to Iran for several hours in January “to retain maximum leverage” and ensure that three American prisoners were released the same day. For months the Obama administration had maintained that the payment was part of a settlement over an old dispute and did not amount to a “ransom” for the release of the Americans. Instead, administration officials said, it was the first installment of the $1. 7 billion that the United States intends to pay Iran to reimburse it for military equipment it bought before the Iranian revolution that the United States never delivered. But at a briefing on Thursday, John Kirby, the State Department spokesman, said the United States “took advantage of the leverage” it felt it had that weekend in   to obtain the release of the hostages and “to make sure they got out safely and efficiently. ” Republicans opposed to the nuclear deal President Obama reached with Iran have described the payment as ransom and a further sign of his administration’s feckless dealings with Tehran. Administration officials have said that the two transactions were negotiated entirely separately over a period of years. That they came together on one weekend reflected a desire on the part of Secretary of State John Kerry and his counterpart, Mohammad Javad Zarif, the Iranian foreign minister, to set aside a series of disputes, complete the nuclear deal and try to remove irritants from the relationship between two longtime rivals. The acknowledgment by Mr. Kirby on Thursday touched off a torrent of criticism from Republicans. “It was ransom,” said Representative Ed Royce of California, chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. “We now know it was ransom. And on top of that it put more American lives at risk. And we’ve emboldened Iran. We’ve encouraged them, frankly, to take more hostages and put more American lives at risk of being taken hostage. ” Neither the payment nor the prisoner release was a secret. Mr. Obama announced the financial settlement, and the release of three Americans, on Jan. 17, just as the Iranian nuclear deal reached its “implementation day. ” But for months the administration remained silent on the carefully choreographed timing, apparently fearful of the political blowback of appearing to have paid for the release of the three  —   a Washington Post reporter, a Marine veteran and a pastor. “We do not pay ransom,” Mr. Obama said on Aug. 4. “We didn’t here and we won’t in the future. ” Mr. Kerry said something similar: “The United States does not pay ransom and does not negotiate ransoms. ” But the Iranian press has described the payment as a ransom  —   which fits Tehran’s narrative that it has outmaneuvered the Obama administration. That is also the argument of Republicans, including Donald J. Trump, the party’s candidate for president. At a rally in Charlotte, N. C. on Thursday night, Mr. Trump said that the State Department’s admission vindicated his past accusations that Mr. Obama had lied about the intent of the $400 million payment. In fact, it appears that the money was not a ransom payment sooner or later the United States would have had to pay Iran back for the military goods it never delivered. But in recent weeks a series of stories, chiefly in The Wall Street Journal, established that the planeload of cash sent to Iran that day was timed to ensure that the American citizens, aboard a plane leaving Iran, were released first, before Iranian officials could put their hands on the money. On Thursday, Mr. Kirby conceded that while the deals were negotiated separately, the timing of the final transactions was linked. “As we said at the time, we deliberately leveraged that moment to finalize these outstanding issues nearly simultaneously,” he said. The State Department and the White House, however, said nothing about using the payment as leverage at the time, and on Thursday Mr. Kirby said, “I certainly would agree that this particular fact is not something that we’ve talked about in the past. ” It was a diplomatic maneuver that had some precedents. Often, to get deals done with a minimum loss of face, governments negotiate two or more issues, insisting they are separate. President John F. Kennedy, for example, agreed to move nuclear missiles out of Turkey as part of the 1962 agreement with the Soviet Union to end the Cuban missile crisis, but denied that the acts were linked. They clearly were. Mr. Kirby argued that the timing was beneficial to the United States. “This was a sound decision made in the end game of two separate negotiation tracks,” he insisted. “It’s their money. They were going to get it anyway. ” Mr. Trump got into trouble this month when he described seeing secret Iranian government tapes of the handoff of the $400 million in Iran. His campaign later said he had been mistaken, that he had seen images of a different plane, in Geneva. The original financial dispute arose because of military goods the United States sold to the shah of Iran, but never delivered after the Islamic Revolution and the taking of hostages inside the American Embassy in Tehran in 1979. The mullahs who overthrew the shah demanded back the money Iran had paid. The United States refused.   years ago, Iran and the United States agreed that a commission set up at The Hague would sort out that claim, among others. In recent years it became clear that the United States would lose the case and the only question was how the interest would be calculated. The $1. 7 billion the United States paid included accumulated interest on the original $400 million owed to Iran. Mr. Kirby pointed out that the United States’ paying back only $1. 3 billion in interest rather than the billions more Iran had sought was one of the reasons the January deal was good for the United States. “We were able to conclude multiple strands of diplomacy within a   period, including implementation of the nuclear deal, the prisoner talks and a settlement of an outstanding Hague Tribunal claim, which saved American taxpayers potentially billions of dollars,” he said, a reference to estimates that the United States would have had to pay far more if it lost the case in The Hague.