Hundreds of athletes at the Rio Games showed the many ways to celebrate winning an Olympic medal. This was Claressa Shields’s on Sunday: She dropped to one knee after her middleweight boxing bout and quickly sprang to her feet. Then she kept moving  —   cartwheeling, laughing, running laps around the ring, the American flag billowing like a parasail over her head. She swayed to some internal music as she waited to step onto the podium. On the final day of the Summer Games, Shields won one of the last gold medals for the United States and became the first American boxer since 1904 to win two Olympic golds. “You know not everybody can be an Olympic gold medalist,” she said. “I’m a   Olympic gold medalist. Oh my god, I can’t believe I just said that. ” Shields, who won gold in London four years ago, nearly shut out her opponent Sunday in the   bout, Nouchka Fontijn of the Netherlands. All three judges scored the first three rounds   in Shields’s favor. One judge gave her the fourth as well, while the other two went   for Fontijn. In the first round, Fontijn looked like a boxer with a plan. She was relaxed and confident, using her height advantage and long arms to counter and to keep Shields at a distance. Shields exploded forward several times, heaving big right hands. Shields glided in behind her triple jab. It wasn’t until seconds before the bell, however, that any of them landed flush. “I told her that was very close,” said the American coach Billy Walsh. “I’m not sure whether we got this round or not. We gotta close her down a bit more, start working a bit more, use your jab a bit more. Put that right hand over the top. ” Shields got the message and started driving home her punches in in round two. She also began slipping Fontijn’s shots. Fontijn circled and jabbed, but Shields, determined, kept stalking her to the end of round three. Up by three rounds, Shields came out to play in the fourth. She crouched low and shimmied backward, luring Fontijn with her hands down. She danced and goaded, ducking nearly every shot Fontijn threw. She landed two hard right hands, and waved Fontijn in. “I hit you with a hard shot, hit me back,” she said later, recalling the moment. “I want to see if you can hit me. ” Shields landed one more left hook as the final bell rung. Shields accepted her Rio Games medal and then pulled out the gold medal she won in London, and hung it around her neck alongside the new one. The favorite Eliud Kipchoge of Kenya won the Olympic marathon on Sunday, drawing away over the final four miles to win in 2 hours 8 minutes 44 seconds. Feyisa Lilesa of Ethiopia took second in 2:09:54, while Galen Rupp of the United States won the bronze medal in 2:10:05, his personal best. Kenya swept both marathons at the Rio Games. Jemima Sumgong won the women’s 26.  race, becoming the first Kenyan woman to win a gold medal in the event. Caster Semenya of South Africa, whose body has been subjected to indelicate and unrelenting public scrutiny for years, won her first Olympic gold medal on Saturday at the Rio Games. Semenya won the 800 meters by a comfortable margin, in 1 minute 55. 28 seconds. While her performances tend to carry the weight of an issue that transcends sports, those looking for undeniable athletics excellence Saturday night were rewarded: her runaway victory solidified her standing as one of the best   runners of her generation. Francine Niyonsaba of Burundi was second in 1:56. 49, and Margaret Wambui of Kenya was third in 1:56. 89. When Semenya, then 18, dominated the 800 at the 2009 world track and field championships, winning by more than two seconds, a fellow competitor called her a man, setting off a   debate over how sports officials should navigate the complicated question of how to determine an athlete’s sex. The questioning of Semenya’s success led to a policy enacted in 2011 by the I. A. A. F. the sport’s governing body, that restricted the permitted levels of testosterone, which occur naturally high in some women. That condition is called hyperandrogenism. With that policy in effect, Semenya won silver at the 2012 London Games. Last year, the Court of Arbitration for Sport, the   high court for international sport, suspended track and field’s testosterone policy for two years. The court said it had been “unable to conclude that hyperandrogenic female athletes may benefit from such a significant performance advantage that it is necessary to exclude them from competing in the female category. ” • Mo Farah of Britain added the   gold to the one he earned in the 10, 000. In the 1, 500, American Matthew Centrowitz upset Asbel Kiprop of Kenya to win the gold. • The United States concluded the final night of track and field with two commanding relay performances, raising the country’s   tally to 43. The women’s   team  —   Courtney Okolo, Natasha Hastings, Phyllis Francis and Allyson Felix  —   outran Jamaica (silver) and Britain (bronze) with a time of 3:19. 06. Felix, who ran the anchor leg, now has six gold medals the night before she became the first woman in the sport to win five. The only American female Olympian with more golds is the swimmer Jenny Thompson, who won eight. LaShawn Merritt ran the anchor for the United States in the men’s 4x400, creating a big gap between the Americans and   Jamaica. Arman Hall, Tony McQuay, Gil Roberts and Merritt finished in 2:57. 30. With only the men’s marathon remaining, on Sunday morning, the United States track team has collected 31 total medals, including 13 golds. • In the men’s soccer final, Brazil got a measure of revenge on Germany, winning the gold medal on penalties after a   draw. Germany had embarrassed Brazil in the 2014 World Cup semifinal,  . Here’s our game story. • The American Gwen Jorgensen of the United States has won the last two world championships in the triathlon, but she had some unfinished Olympic business after a flat tire on her bike doomed her to 38th place at the London Games. The wheels stayed intact this time, and Jorgensen won the gold medal. The United States women’s basketball team extended their gold medal streak to six by beating Spain,  . Here’s our story. • The boxer Shakur Stevenson of Newark lost his bantamweight title match against Cuba’s Robeisy Ramírez. Stevenson, who was named after the rapper Tupac Shakur, was trying to win the first gold medal for the United States in men’s boxing since Andre Ward in 2004. • The   major winner Inbee Park of South Korea won the first gold medal in women’s golf since 1900. Five strokes back was Lydia Ko of New Zealand, and Feng Shanshan of China won the bronze. • The defending champion, American David Boudia, grabbed another medal in men’s platform diving, this time a bronze. The winner was Chen Aisen from the strong Chinese diving team.