 (CNN) MTV aired its highly anticipated special, ”The Hills: That Was Then, This Is Now,” on Tuesday night.  It’s been 10 years since Lauren Conrad first left Laguna Beach for the hills of Hollywood. (Yes, a decade has passed.) Allow us to catch you up on ”LC” and her friends. Lauren Conrad, Conrad is now 30 and married to entertainment lawyer, William Tell. She has a clothing line and has written several books. Oh, and her hair is still perfectly on point.  Conrad said her reality TV days are over, but she doesn’t regret letting so much of her life play out on camera.  ”The show isn’t something I like to ” she said. ”Looking, back I would absolutely do it again. It brought so much good to my life. While it was hard at times, it brought me to a place where I’m really happy and I get to do what I love,” Conrad said. Heidi Montag and Spencer Pratt, Montag and Pratt are still married and still on the reality TV circuit. ”Speidi,” as the couple was    nicknamed on ”The Hills,” went on ”Celebrity Wife Swap,” ”Marriage Boot Camp” and ”Celebrity Big Brother.” Montag had well publicized extreme plastic surgery in 2010. She also released an album, appropriately titled ”Superficial.” As for Pratt, he recently told MTV that during the height of ”The Hills,” he spent more than $1 million on a crystal rock collection.   Audrina Patridge, Patridge, 31, is engaged to marry her longtime boyfriend, Corey Bohan. The couple welcomed a baby girl in June. Patridge competed on the 11th season of ”Dancing With The Stars.” She also had a few minor film roles in ”Sorority Row,” ”Into The Blue 2,” and ”Honey 2.”  Lo Bosworth, Bosworth, 29, created a lifestyle blog called ”The LoDown,” that focuses on health and wellness. In 2011, She also published a book about dating and love with the same title. Bosworth currently hosts a podcast and lives in New York with her boyfriend.  Kristin Cavallari, Cavallari, 29, is married to NFL star Jay Cutler. Together, they have three children. Cavallari dabbled in acting and appeared in a few straight to DVD movies before settling in Nashville to raise her family. Her book, ”Balancing in Heels,” is about living her busy life ”with style and grace.” Whitney Port, As you may recall, Port, 31, moved to New York and the end of ”The Hills” to star in her own   series, ”The City.”  She launched a clothing line, ”Whitney Eve,” and published a book, ”True Whit: Designing a Life of Style, Beauty, and Fun.” Port fell in love with one of the producers of ”The City,” Tim Rosenman. They married in 2015.  Justin ”Bobby” Brescia, Our favorite bad boy from ”The Hills” now lives in New York and performs with his punk rock band, BobbyrocK. Brescia also has a line of vegan hair products called BRUSH.