RIO DE JANEIRO  —   The very idea of a medal count might seem contrary to the spirit of the Olympics, which are supposed to bring the world together for a couple of weeks and suspend the nationalism that keeps us apart. Yet keeping score is the essence of sport. And measured by the haul of gold, silver and bronze, the United States had an extraordinary Olympics in Rio, winning 121 medals, the most by an American team in a Summer Games free of boycotts. The size and depth of the United States team resulted in the most gold (46) silver (37) and bronze (38) medals of any nation. Only five countries have topped each medal category at the same Games. The Americans were the first to do it in 40 years, enabled in part by the barring of nearly a third of Russia’s team after revelations of   doping. (Another reliable powerhouse, China, underperformed.) “This has been an incredible Games for Team U. S. A. by any measure,” Alan Ashley, the chief of sport performance for the United States Olympic Committee, said Sunday at a news conference. Most striking was the performance by the American women. The American men won 18 gold medals, the same as Britain. But the American women were dominant with 27 (not including a gold in mixed doubles tennis). Had the women competed as a separate country, they would have ranked third in the overall medal chart (61) behind China (70) and Britain (67) and just ahead of the American men (60). There are two primary reasons for this  . The United States is one of the few countries to embed sports within the public education system. And equal access to sports for women comes with legal protections, gained with the education amendment known as Title IX in 1972 and the Olympic and Amateur Sports Act in 1978. About one of every two American girls participates in sports in high school. Of the 213 American medalists in individual and team sports in Rio, according to the U. S. O. C. nearly 85 percent participated in   sports. “Those things don’t exist elsewhere in the world,” said Donna Lopiano, a former executive director of the Women’s Sports Foundation. “We have the largest base of athletic development. Our women are going to dominate, not only because of their legal rights but because women in other parts of the world are discriminated against. ” In the United States, more women than men watch the Summer Olympics on television. Girls see role models to emulate, and success perpetuates success. The champion performances by three   athletes  —   Simone Biles, who won four gold medals in gymnastics Simone Manuel, the first black woman to win Olympic gold in an individual swimming event and Ashleigh Johnson, the goalie for the    women’s water polo team  —   are certain to broaden participation in sports that have historically been white. Ibtihaj Muhammad, who won a bronze medal in saber team fencing, became the first Olympic athlete to compete for the United States while wearing a hijab. And it was a women’s team, in the   medley relay in swimming, that won the 1, 000th gold medal for the Americans since the modern Games began, in 1896. “You get on a roll,” said David Wallechinsky, president of the International Society of Olympic Historians. “Girls are looking and saying, ‘Wow, I can do that,’ whereas 30 years ago, not so many American girls thought that. It builds and builds. ” A country of 320 million, the United States ranked only 43rd in medals per capita, well behind small countries that won multiple medals, like Jamaica, New Zealand, Denmark, Croatia, Azerbaijan and Hungary, according to medalspercapita. com.   of the medals won by the United States, more than half of its total, came in swimming and track and field, the two sports offering the most chances to win medals. It also surely helped that American athletes competed in a time zone only one hour ahead of Eastern Daylight Time and did not have to risk jet lag by traveling to an Olympics in Europe or Asia. And some American success can be attributed to underperformance by other nations. Because of the doping controversy, Russia’s entire weight lifting team was barred, and so was all but one athlete on its track and field team. Australia won its fewest Olympic medals (29) since the 1992 Barcelona Games. With 70 medals, China finished second over all, but that was 30 fewer than it won at the 2008 Beijing Games. This fits a pattern of host countries’ ebbing two Olympics later, Wallechinsky said. “You have seven years to prepare for an Olympics, everybody gets pumped up, you put money into different sports, you do well at home, and you develop a bunch of role models,” Wallechinsky said. “But that doesn’t necessarily carry over twice. There’s a consistent pattern of the host doing well, then pretty well at the next Olympics, then back to normal. ” Brazil won 19 medals, its highest total ever, but not as many as recent host nations like Britain (65) in 2012, China (100) in 2008 and Australia (58) in 2000. Home teams generally receive increased financial support in preparation for a Summer Olympics, but Brazil lacks an organized funding system for sports, and the Rio Games arrived with the country in an economic and political crisis. Still, Brazil won the gold medal it prized most  —   its first in men’s soccer. More ambitious drug testing may have also affected the makeup of the Chinese team and others in Rio, Wallechinsky said. Several experts said that although enhanced international antidoping measures are far from perfect and have ensnared Americans, they might have particularly aided the success of the United States’ track and field team in Rio, as enhanced funding and training camps supported by shoe companies and U. S. A. Track  Field did. Michelle Carter became the first American woman to win the Olympic  . And the United States, long a sprint power, won medals in   and   running from 800 meters to the marathon, highlighted by Matt Centrowitz’s victory at 1, 500 meters, the metric mile. He was the first American to win the event since 1908. “A level playing field benefits all athletes and helps our medal chances,” said Jill Geer, a spokeswoman for U. S. A. Track  Field. The ruthless nature of selecting a team at the Olympic trials, instead of by past performances, also appeared to be an important factor, Centrowitz said. Brianna Rollins, Nia Ali and Kristi Castlin of the United States swept the   hurdles in Rio while the   holder, an American named Kendra Harrison, did not make the team. “It’s not the three fastest people on paper it’s the best three people on a given day,” Centrowitz said, describing team selection per event at the Olympic trials. “And that’s what you had to do here, perform on that specific day. ”