WASHINGTON  —   It is now a grim fact that the life expectancy of American women is stagnant, but the reason for this remains a mystery. A team of researchers has now come up with an important clue: Where women live matters just as much as who they are. In fact, in a study to be published this week in SSM Population Health, they found that many common demographic traits  —   whether a woman is rich, poor, unemployed, working, single or married  —   might not be as important as the state in which she lives. Using new    data collected by the federal government, researchers found that a state’s economic and social environment  —   from its welfare policy and tobacco tax rate, to the strength of social ties through sports clubs and churchgoing, to the level of economic inequality  —   had a significant effect on women’s life spans. That would not be particularly surprising on its own. The importance of place for mortality rates in the United States is well documented. But the new research discovered that the differences in male mortality had far less to do with the social and economic environment, an unexpected finding. “What’s really interesting is that women are more vulnerable than men,” said Lisa Berkman, director of the Harvard Center for Population and Development Studies. “We didn’t know that before. It says something about women in this era. ” In the 1970s, American women were roughly in the middle of the pack of wealthy nations in terms of life expectancy, but now they are near the bottom. Researchers have puzzled over why the usual explanations  —   smoking, obesity  —   account for only part of the decline. Men have also not fared well, but have not lagged nearly as much as women. Women have consistently had longer life expectancy than men, and still do, though less so than 30 years ago. Two major social changes that have transformed women’s lives since the 1970s may hold some answers: Women went to work en masse, and many more of them began to raise children on their own. This has been something of a double shift, Professor Berkman said, especially for   and   American women, many of whom are not protected by maternity and parental leave policies. Jennifer Karas Montez, an assistant professor of sociology at Syracuse University and one of the study’s authors, said the findings “point to a perfect storm of eroding social and economic supports at the state and federal level at a time when many Americans, particularly women, are struggling to find good jobs and raise families on their own. ” The researchers used data from the National Longitudinal Mortality Study, a broad federal survey of millions of Americans. They looked at 21   characteristics, including policies like the   tax credit, which rewards people for working by refunding part of their taxes. (About half of the states have an   tax program that goes beyond that of the federal government, Professor Montez said.) The researchers also looked at spending on education and tobacco policies, like taxes on cigarettes. They factored in levels of economic inequality and social factors like support among neighbors and civic groups. Social factors are stronger in rural states, Professor Montez said. The states that had the best scores for social and economic context were Hawaii, Nebraska, New Hampshire, North Dakota, South Dakota and Vermont. The states that did the worst were Alabama, Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi and New York. (New York made the list because of its high rate of income inequality, Professor Montez said. Inequality tends to go along with higher mortality.) Many of the states that had the best economic and social scores had the lowest overall mortality for women: Hawaii, Minnesota, Nebraska, North Dakota and South Dakota. And many with the lowest social and economic scores had the highest mortality: Nevada, Tennessee, Virginia, West Virginia and Wyoming. “There is this large and growing difference in mortality between states, and I don’t think anyone’s got a really good explanation for it,” said John G. Haaga, director of the Division of Behavioral and Social Research at the National Institute on Aging. “We’ve seen this pulling apart. ” Dr. Haaga said the trend was perplexing because it had happened over a period of time when Medicare and Medicaid, federal health insurance programs that gave millions of Americans coverage starting in the 1960s, should have been making mortality rates in states more equal. “Some states are benefiting from the health improvements of the past 50 years, but others are stuck,” he said. Kate W. Strully, an associate professor of sociology at the State University of New York at Albany, said the findings were a counterpoint to the prevailing wisdom about public health today. “The message you are always getting is that your health is all about your own behaviors: whether you go to the gym, what you put in your mouth,” she said. “This builds a case that sometimes people’s environments are just as important as their individual behaviors. ”