 (CNN) Catastrophic flooding has swallowed swaths of Louisiana in a deluge that the governor calls ”unprecedented.” But the breadth of the destruction can be hard to imagine.  Here’s what the calamity looks like, by the numbers: 60, 000: Homes damaged, More than 60, 000 homes have been reported damaged by Louisiana parishes impacted by the flooding, said Mike Steele, the communications director for the Louisiana Governor’s Office of Homeland Security and Emergency Preparedness. However, the damage may be much greater. Steele says a forthcoming assessment by FEMA will be more thorough.   Gov. John Bel Edwards said Tuesday that volunteers are needed to help clean out mud from homes.  ”Not everyone can do this on their own,” the governor said. He said anyone interested in helping can visit VolunteerLouisiana. gov. The entire state of Louisiana has just 4. 6 million people    less than the population of metro Atlanta.  6, 900, 000, 000, 000: Gallons of rainfall in one week, About 6. 9 trillion gallons of rain pummeled Louisiana between August 8 and 14, according to meteorologist Ryan Maue.  That’s enough to fill more than 10. 4 million   swimming pools.  13: Deaths across the state  Officials have reported five in East Baton Rouge Parish, three in Tangipahoa Parish, two in St. Helena Parish, two in Livingston Parish, and one in Rapides Parish.  $30 million: The estimated cost of the flood so far, ”This disaster is the worst to hit the United States since Superstorm Sandy, and we anticipate it will cost at least $30 million    a number which may grow as we learn more about the scope and magnitude of the devastation,” Red Cross official Brad Kieserman said.  31. 39: Inches of rain in one day  More than 2   feet of rain pummeled part of Livingston Parish on Tuesday, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration said.  The   part of the parish was Watson, where 31. 39 inches fell between 6 a. m. and 9 p. m. Tuesday.  Baton Rouge was pounded with more than 19 inches of rain during those same 15 hours.  20, 000: People rescued, Members of the Coast Guard and National Guard, along with emergency responders and regular civilians, helped take more than 20, 000 residents to safety, officials said.  Gov. Edwards said 1, 000 pets have also been rescued.  500 years: Expected frequency of a flood this big, The likelihood of a flood this catastrophic in the Baton Rouge area is about once every 500 years.  Since last August, five other floods across the country have been considered ”  floods,” according to data from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.  14. 9 feet: Level of Amite River on Wednesday  For three consecutive days, the Amite River at Port Vincent broke the previous record level of 14. 6 feet. After cresting at 17. 45 feet early Monday, the river stood at 14. 9 feet Wednesday.  12: Parishes declared as disaster areas, President Barack Obama has granted Edwards’ request for an emergency declaration in 12 parishes, the governor said Tuesday.  Edwards said he expects that number to rise, as he has requested emergency declarations in more than a dozen other parishes as well.  106, 000: Households registered with FEMA  More than 106, 000 individuals and households have registered with FEMA for assistance as survivors are in need of temporary rental help, essential home repairs and other   needs. More than $55 million has been approved to help survivors.  How to help Louisiana flood victims