 (CNN) An international incident brewed all week after the reported robbery of four U. S. Olympic swimmers at gunpoint by men dressed as police during a night out in Rio de Janeiro.  Latest developments, 5:55 p. m. ET: US Olympic swimmer James Feigen’s 35, 000 reais (nearly $11, 000) contribution will help Brazilian charity Instituto Reacao, which trains favela youth in judo. 11:24 a. m. ET: US Olympic swimmer Ryan Lochte on Friday described the events at a Rio de Janeiro gas station as stressful. ”It’s traumatic to be out late with your friends in a foreign country    with a language barrier    and have a stranger point a gun at you and demand money to let you leave,” Lochte said on Instagram.  11:05 a. m. ET: Lochte apologized Friday for his behavior Sunday in Rio de Janeiro. Police said at least one of the swimmers was involved in vandalism at a Rio gas station and urinated on its premises. ”I wanted to apologize for my behavior last weekend    for not bring more careful and candid in how I described the events of that early morning and for my role in taking the focus away from the many athletes fulfilling their dreams of participating in the Olympics,” he said Friday on Instagram. He said he accepted responsibility for his role in the case and had ”learned some valuable lessons.” He did not, however, roll back on his allegations the swimmers had been robbed at gunpoint by men posing as police. 10:11 a. m. Rio de Janeiro Mayor Eduardo Paes said he felt ”pity and contempt” for the US Olympic swimmers involved in muddled reports of a robbery.  He said he accepted the apology from the US Olympic Committee over the conduct of the swimmers. 10:03 a. m. US Olympic swimmer James Feigen has agreed to make a 35, 000 reais (nearly $11, 000) contribution to a Brazilian charity organization, civil police in Brazil said Friday. A statement posted on Facebook said the decision was made in a court appearance to answer police accusations that Feigen and fellow swimmer Ryan Lochte had made false claims that they were robbed. Thursday, August 18, At a news conference, Fernando Veloso, chief of civil police in Rio de Janeiro, told reporters Lochte was confrontational with security guards after they stopped him and the other swimmers after vandalizing a gas station and he was ”very angry because he was intoxicated.” A video shows no robbery took place, Veloso said. Officials said Conger and Bentz spoke with police Thursday at the tourist police office.  Feigen also spoke to police, but Veloso wouldn’t comment on where the questioning took place. Earlier, Veloso said one swimmer confirmed what officials believe the surveillance video shows.  Later that evening, the US Olympic Committee put out a statement apologizing for the incident and saying Bentz and Conger had departed Rio. The USOC also said that Feigen gave police a revised statement ”with the hope of securing the release of his passport as soon as possible. ” Wednesday, August 17, A Brazilian judge ordered a search and seizure warrant for Lochte and Feigen as well as the confiscation of their passports. But when police arrived at the Olympics Village, the men were not there. Lochte’s attorney, Jeff Ostrow, said the athletes had moved out after the completion of their sporting events and that his client had returned to the United States. On Wednesday night, Conger and Bentz were pulled off a plane bound for the United States and told they were barred from leaving Brazil until they gave a statement to police.  Lochte spoke to NBC, changing his account slightly, saying the men were robbed after using a toilet at a gas station. He said a gun was pointed inches from him, not at his forehead, as he had told the network on Sunday.  Tuesday, August 16, Lochte arrived back in the United States, explaining that the swimmers didn’t initially tell the US Olympic Committee about the robbery out of fear of being punished, giving perhaps some explanation for the initial confusion. But police said the swimmers were intoxicated, giving accounts full of murky details and in conflict with one another.  Monday, August 15, In a reversal of its original comments, the International Olympic Committee said it now believed a robbery took place. It said the US committee had initially said otherwise, causing the confusion. Sunday, August 14  Reports emerged Sunday morning that the four swimmers were robbed at gunpoint hours earlier. Shortly afterward, Lochte’s mother, Ileana Lochte, told the media the swimmers were in a taxi when confronted by people with guns, who stole their wallets. The IOC initially denied a robbery occurred. But in an interview with Olympic broadcaster NBC, Lochte gave a chilling account of how the swimmers were stopped in a taxi returning from a party and confronted by men with a police badge. They demanded the swimmers get down on the ground, and when Lochte refused, he said one bandit cocked a gun and pressed it up against his forehead.