Washington (CNN) Donald Trump developed a new campaign pitch this week, arguing that   have been struggling and taken for granted by the Democratic Party and thus should consider a different direction this November. ”You’re living in poverty, your schools are no good, you have no jobs, 58% of your youth is unemployed    what the hell do you have to lose?” Trump told an audience Friday in Dimondale, Michigan. (A recent CNNMoney Reality Check has found Trump’s 58% statistic to be true, but misleading.) In the same speech, he predicted that were he to run for   after a first term, he would capture 95% of the   vote. The next day, in Fredericksburg, Virginia, Trump acknowledged the GOP’s longtime unpopularity with black voters and said he wanted the party to ”be the home of the   voter once again.” But his historically low support among black voters and a series of stumbles throughout his campaign suggest he will have some work to do. A new   Street Journal poll found Hillary Clinton beating him among that demographic 91% to 1%. Here’s a brief look at Trump’s history with   on the campaign trail. ’Diamond’ and ’Silk’ Two of Trump’s earliest supporters were a pair of   women, Lynnette ”Diamond” Hardaway and Rochelle ”Silk” Richardson, who became almost instant YouTube stars after posting their ”Stump for Trump” videos early in his campaign. Trump soon began touting them at his rallies and even bringing them on stage with him a few times, cementing their celebrity status. ’Maybe he should have been roughed up’ After a Black Lives Matter protester was shoved to the ground and beaten by a   white Trump supporters at a rally last November, Trump said on Fox News, ”Maybe he should have been roughed up because it was absolutely disgusting what he was doing.” Trump later said he did not condone the physical confrontation. 100 black pastors  Shortly after the BLM protester was beaten at one of his rallies, Trump announced that he would meet with a large group of black pastors in New York, where they would endorse him. His campaign initially trumpeted the event, but several black pastors invited to the gathering quickly rebutted the endorsement talk, with one calling him an ”insult and embarrassment.”  This forced the cancellation of a planned press conference and left Trump in an awkward spot. But he still held the event and highlighted the black pastors who he said were supporting him. ”I saw love in that room. I see love everywhere I go,” Trump said. David Duke and Trump’s ’bad earpiece’ In the thick of the Republican primaries, Trump received the support of former Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke. But rather than immediately denounce Duke, Trump claimed to CNN’s Jake Tapper that he did not know him or his affiliations. Trump later blamed his answer on a ”bad earpiece.”  Sucker punch, At a March rally in North Carolina, a white Trump supporter was charged with assault after video captured him   a black protester. Only a few weeks earlier, Trump had been criticized for urging his supporters to ”knock the crap out of” anybody ”getting ready to throw a tomato” and vowed to pay for their legal fees should they face charges. ”Knock the crap out of them, would you? Seriously. OK? Just knock the hell    I promise you, I will pay for the legal fees. I promise, I promise,” Trump said. ’Look at my   over here’ While Trump was talking in June about the fallout from the   incident at the North Carolina rally, he mentioned how a black supporter of his punched and kicked a white protester at a separate rally soon after. He attempted to point out how much   support he had by acknowledging a black supporter in the crowd and saying, ”Oh, look at my   over here. Look at him.” Trump hires Omarosa for outreach, Trump last month hired former ”Apprentice” star Omarosa Manigault to be his outreach director to black voters. Manigault, who had been a Democrat and supporter of Clinton and President Barack Obama, told NPR she had a   outreach strategy.  ”He had no idea, until he started running, how many young black men and women were dying in the streets of Chicago,” Manigault told NPR. ”And so those are issues that I not only advise him on    that these are things that have to stop, that we have to find ways to make sure that the value of black lives in inner cities around this country is elevated.” The Central Park Five, One of Trump’s earliest political supporters, Alabama Sen. Jeff Sessions, on Thursday unearthed a nearly    controversy: the mogul’s 1989 call to ”bring back the death penalty” in light of the   ”Central Park Five” case concerning the rape of a white Central Park jogger. Five black and Hispanic teens were falsely convicted in the crime and later exonerated, but Sessions said Trump’s push to reinstate capital punishment in the Empire State proved he’s long been tough on crime.