Los Angeles (CNN) Hillary Clinton is picking up cash    and snapping playful photos with former N’Sync members    during a fundraising blitz in California this week. Clinton headlined an event at Justin Timberlake and Jessica Biel’s Hollywood Hills home on Tuesday afternoon that brought up $3. 36 million, according to ticket prices and attendance figures provided by the campaign. In the process, Clinton, Biel and Timberlake snapped four photos in a photo booth during the fundraiser, including one where Clinton is making a kissing face with the actress and her   husband. Clinton’s photo booth fun was posted by Biel after the event. ”Look who came over for lunch,” the actress wrote. The event at Timberlake’s home was a   affair. In addition to the hosts, actress Jennifer Aniston, singer Jamie Foxx and actor Tobey Maguire were all there. Scooter Braun, the talent scout and agent who discovered Justin Bieber,   the event. Leonardo DiCaprio, the Academy   actor, was supposed to host the fundraiser, but had to ask Timberlake, a friend, to step in for him when work on a movie in New York got in the way of his event with Clinton. Clinton also headlined two other fundraisers in Laguna Beach Tuesday afternoon, raising about $1. 8 million and bringing her total California haul so far to $11. 4 million. On Monday, Clinton headlined two more events in California, headlining a   reception at Hall of Fame NBA player Magic Johnson’s home and then a dinner at the home of Haim Saban, the owner of Univision. Actors Denzel Washington and Samuel L. Jackson   the event with Johnson and Bob Iger, the CEO of The Walt Disney Company, and Jeffrey Katzenberg, the CEO of DreamWorks Animation,   with Saban. Meg Whitman, the former HP CEO and Republican California gubernatorial candidate, attended the event at Saban’s house as well, a source who attended the event told CNN. Whitman, a longtime Republican, endorsed Clinton earlier this month, saying in a statement that she would vote for and donate to Clinton. She paid $50, 000 to attend Monday night’s event, the source said. The two Monday night fundraisers raised at least $6. 3 million, according to ticket prices and attendance figures. Getting celebrities to help with the fundraising process has been an advantage Clinton has had over her Republican rival Donald Trump. Cher spoke at a fundraiser for Clinton over the weekend, and Max Weinberg, of Bruce Springsteen and the E Street Band fame, is performing at a Clinton fundraiser next week in Washington. Clinton is not expected to attend the Weinberg event. 