KABUL, Afghanistan  —   The American University of Afghanistan in Kabul came under attack by bomb and gunfire on Wednesday night, in a siege that lasted for hours as pockets of people trapped on campus tried to escape. The Afghan Health Ministry said that a security guard was killed in the attack and that at least 26 people had been wounded. Sediq Sediqqi, a spokesman for the Ministry of Interior, said early Thursday that police operations at the university were completed about 10 hours after the attack began, though officers remained on campus. “Two terrorists who attacked the university are killed the operation ended almost after 10 hours as there were hundreds of students and all of them were evacuated,” Mr. Sediqqi said. He said that the police could not yet provide casualty figures. Later on Thursday, Fraidoon Obaidi, chief of the Kabul police Criminal Investigation Department, told Reuters that 12 people had been killed, including seven students, three police officers and two security guards, and another 44 people were wounded. Afghan security forces massed around the campus, a guarded compound in the western part of the capital, after initial reports of an explosion and gunfire. From within, trapped people began taking to social media to ask for help and report what was going on around them. The university opened for enrollment in 2006 to both men and women, and quickly became a prestigious education choice for some of Afghanistan’s elites, offering undergraduate and graduate degrees taught in English. It was praised by senior American officials as a sign of Afghanistan’s bright future, and as such was an obvious symbol of Western ambitions for the country  —   and exactly the kind of symbol the Taliban and other militants have come to pursue as targets. One after another, such places  —     hotels, restaurants frequented by foreigners, even cultural centers where young Afghans performed arts  —   have come under attack, limiting the movement of expatriates in Kabul and keeping the local population in constant fear of unpredictable violence. No group has claimed responsibility for the attack, which was the second directed at the university this month. On Aug. 7, two professors  —   an American and an Australian, both men  —   were abducted from a vehicle near the campus. Officials said they were investigating the case, but there was no public word on who was behind the kidnapping or the condition of the two professors. Officials say that most kidnappings in Kabul are conducted by criminal gangs. As the assault on Wednesday unfolded, several people who were able to escape, along with other witnesses, gave accounts of people being wounded by gunfire or being injured while trying to flee. One man who managed to escape the compound, a    who would give only his first name, Fahim, said that the sound of gunfire sent many students running for emergency exits. Almost immediately, they heard a loud explosion. Fahim said two of his friends were hospitalized after getting free: One had broken a leg as he jumped from a   window, and the other had been shot in the back. With electricity cut off by the security forces to restrict the movement of the attackers, dozens of family members anxiously awaited news of their loved ones outside the security cordon. Qudratullah Waziri said his brother, a student, was still unaccounted for. The last Mr. Waziri heard from him was a phone call in which he said he was surrounded by wounded people. “I saw the police just rescue 12 female students in the back of their truck,” Mr. Waziri said. An operator at the Kabul police emergency line said calls had come in from panicking people inside the university who said attackers had infiltrated after an initial explosion. But at checkpoints outside the campus, security officials insisted that the attackers had not infiltrated the perimeter of the university. Ahmad Jawad, a police officer at the site of the attack, said a car bomb had exploded in front of a school for the blind that is next to the American University. He said that the attackers had entered that school, and were firing at the university from there.