 (CNN) Manchester City joined rivals Manchester United and Chelsea at the top of the English Premier League as it collected maximum points against West Ham on Sunday. It now sits in first place on goal difference. Pep Guardiola’s men were two up at halftime through Raheem Sterling and Fernandinho. The Hammers managed to pull one back shortly after the break with a headed goal from Michail Antonio, but Sterling’s second sealed victory in stoppage time. Chelsea also ran in easy winners against Burnley Saturday, winning   with goals from Eden Hazard, Willian and Victor Moses. Read more: Barca joins early leaders in La Liga, Manchester United left it late in against Hull, scoring in stoppage time through teen substitute Marcus Rashford, but a   win against the Tigers meant that the Red Devils also have nine points from three games. Both Chelsea and Manchester United have new managers this season and early results already show that the EPL could turn into a clash of coaching giants, pitching Antonio Conte at Stamford Bridge against the London club’s former manager Jose Mourinho at Old Trafford.  United’s neighbors and biggest rivals, Manchester City, acquired former Bayern Munich and Barcelona boss Guardiola at the start of the season, and three wins from three reminds the Premier League heavyweights that he looks like continuing his impressive record in England. Tottenham and Liverpool have both made slow starts to the season and neither side could prevail, playing out a   draw Saturday. The game may also have been a concern for the new England coach Sam Allardyce who was due to name his first squad Sunday. Spurs striker Harry Kane who enjoyed a magnificent season last year looked lackluster in the Euro competition in the summer during England’s woeful display and again failed to impress against Liverpool. He was substituted towards the end of the match. Last season’s surprise champions Leicester City secured the first win of the new campaign with a   victory over Swansea and the first goal for Jamie Vardy. The striker scored 24 goals for the Foxes last season and was only pipped to the top scorer crown by England team mate Harry Kane. Get more soccer news at cnn.  Elsewhere in the league, Everton has started well and notched up a   home win over Stoke. Arsenal bounced back from two poor results to beat Watford   away from home and there were   draws in the games between Crystal Palace and Bournemouth, and Southampton versus Sunderland. West Bromwich Albion played out a dull   draw against Premiership new boys Middlesbrough Sunday though both teams sit comfortably   after just three games.