 (CNN) Here’s a look at the   Commission, whose report was released on July 22, 2004.  Facts:The Commission was created to provide a ”complete account of the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks.”  The official name of the   Commission is the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States.  The     report concluded that a ”failure of imagination” kept US officials from understanding the al Qaeda threat before the attacks on New York and Washington.  The report included 41 recommendations for reforming US security agencies to fight terrorism. The report called for a single national intelligence chief and a single counterterrorism center modeled on the military’s unified commands. It also proposed the creation of a single, joint congressional committee to oversee homeland security. The purpose of the commission was to investigate US counterterrorism policy from August 1998 to September 11, 2001. Budget for the Commission totaled $15 million.   It originally had 18 months to report, or no later than May 27, 2004, but Congress and the President extended the reporting deadline by two months, to July 26, 2004. The Commission had nearly 80   employees, contractors and employees on staff.   President George W. Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney agreed to meet with commission chair and vice chair only. The Commission said it had access to all documents and interviews it requested. ”We’ve gotten everything we’ve asked for, but always after a lot of resistance and criticism,” said member Slade Gorton. It issued three subpoenas for information, but these were resolved without litigation. The subpoenas went to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) the Department of Defense and the City of New York. The Commission reviewed more than two million pages of documents. The Commission’s 10 Members: Thomas H. Kean, Chair   former governor of New Jersey ( ) Lee H. Hamilton, Vice Chair   former Congressman, Richard     Lawyer and former chief of the Watergate Task Force of the Watergate Special Prosecutor’s Office, Fred F. Fielding   Has served on several commissions, including Commission on Federal Ethics Law Reform (1989)  Jamie S. Gorelick   Serves on the CIA’s National Security Advisory Panel, Slade Gorton   Senator from Washington State from   and   Bob Kerrey   Senator for Nebraska from   and Nebraska Governor from   John F. Lehman   Chairman of J. F. Lehman  Company, a private equity investment firm and former Secretary of the Navy from  . Timothy J. Roemer   President of the Center for National Policy and Representative to Congress from Indiana   James R. Thompson   Illinois’ longest serving governor, from   The Commission’s Eight Topics:Al Qaeda and the Organization of the   Attack  Intelligence Collection, Analysis, and Management (including oversight and resource allocation)  International Counterterrorism Policy, including states that harbor or harbored terrorists, or offer or offered terrorists safe havens  Terrorist Financing  Border Security and Foreign Visitors  Law Enforcement and Intelligence Collection inside the United States  Commercial Aviation and Transportation Security, including an Investigation into the Circumstances of the Four Hijackings  The Immediate Response to the Attacks at the National, State, and Local levels, including issues of Continuity of Government, Timeline:November 27, 2002   President George W. Bush signs a bill creating the Commission. Bush also appoints Former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger to chair the commission. December 11, 2002   Former Senator George Mitchell, originally chosen by Democrats to be vice chairman, resigns, saying the workload would be too much and citing potential conflicts of interest with his law firm. December 13, 2002   Kissinger resigns over potential conflicts of interest involving clients of his consulting firm and public outcry over his appointment. December 16, 2002   President Bush appoints former New Jersey Governor Thomas Kean to chair the Commission. March 31   April 1, 2003   First public hearings take place. The focus is hearing from victims and people impacted by  . May 22   May 23, 2003   Second public hearings take place. The focus is Congressional oversight and aviation security. July 8, 2003   The first interim report is released. July 9, 2003   Third public hearing takes place. The focus is ”Terrorism, Al Qaeda, and the Muslim World.” September 23, 2003   The second interim report is released. October 14, 2003   The fourth public hearing takes place. The focus is intelligence and national security policy. November 19, 2003   Fifth public hearing. The focus is emergency preparedness. December 8, 2003   Sixth public hearing. The focus is ”Security and Liberty.” January 26   27, 2004   The seventh public hearing takes place. The focus is border and aviation security. March 24, 2004   Former Counterterrorism Chief Richard A. Clarke testifies. March 30, 2004   The White House says it will allow National Security Adviser Condoleezza Rice to testify publicly before the commission investigating the September 11 terrorist attacks, so long as her appearance is not considered a precedent.  April 8, 2004   Condoleezza Rice testifies in the morning   public and under oath. Former President Bill Clinton testifies in the afternoon. Clinton’s testimony is not public or under oath. April 13, 2004   Former FBI Director Louis Freeh, Former Attorney General Janet Reno and current Attorney General John Ashcroft testify at the tenth public hearing. Former acting FBI Director Thomas Pickard and J. Cofer Black, former head of the CIA’s counterterrorism center, also testify. April 14, 2004   CIA Director George Tenet and FBI Direct Robert Mueller testify in separate public sessions. April 29, 2004   President George W. Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney meet with the   Commission from 9:30 a. m. until 12:40 p. m. in the Oval Office at the White House. The President and Vice President answer questions but are not under oath. The meeting is not officially recorded. Two members of the White House counsel’s staff are allowed to take notes during the session, as are the commission members. May 19, 2004   Former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani and former director of New York City’s Office of Emergency Management Jerry Hauer testify before the   Commission. May 27, 2004   Original deadline to report on its findings. June 16, 2004   Commission holds its twelfth and final public hearing on its investigation into the September 11 attacks.  July 22, 2004   The Commission releases its final report. The report said the original plot called for 10 hijacked planes, al Qaeda’s role in the 1993 World Trade Center bombing was uncertain and there was no ”credible evidence” of cooperation between Iraq and al Qaeda. July 15, 2005   It is announced that actors Hilary Swank and Kevin Costner will narrate the upcoming documentary film ”On Native Soil: The Documentary of the   Commission Report.” The film will tell some of the survivors’ stories and will examine some of the commission’s recommendations. September   2006   ABC airs a dramatization based on the   Commission Report called ”The Path to  .” It airs over two nights with limited commercial interruption. Governor Thomas Kean, chairman of the   Commission, serves as a senior consultant on the project. July 21, 2011   The Department of Homeland Security releases a report citing ”significant progress” in fulfilling specific recommendations made by the   Commission.  August 31, 2011   The heads of the   Commission release a report warning of gaps in terrorism prevention in the United States. The report, Tenth Anniversary Report Card: The Status of the   Commission Recommendations, highlights nine of the commission’s recommendations that remain unfulfilled.  January 2012   Despite the   Commission’s directive to make most of their material available to the public by 2009, the records remained sealed at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). April 12, 2012     Commission   Tom Kean and Lee Hamilton, now leaders of the Bipartisan Policy Center’s   Homeland Security Project, announce new members of the Project. March 25, 2015   The FBI releases its final report on the   Review Commission: The FBI: Protecting the Homeland in the 21st Century. The report discusses the FBI’s implementation of the commission’s recommendations. July 2015   The Interagency Security Classification Appeals Panel declassifies and authorizes the release of some   Commission documents, including one on FBI files related to  . The file, dubbed ”Document 17” or ”File 17” in media reports because it is the 17th of 29 released, contains information about links between Saudi Arabia and the   hijackers. It has much of the same information contained in the 28 pages of a congressional report on   which are released about a year later. 