 (CNN) A police officer was killed when gunfire erupted as he pursued a suspect on foot in southern New Mexico, authorities said. Officer Clint Corvinus, 33, of the Alamogordo Police Department was fatally shot Friday while he and another officer chased down the suspect, who was also shot dead during the incident.  Corvinus was on a routine foot patrol with another officer in Alamogordo when they met Joseph Moreno, 38, police said in a statement.  ”Officers made contact with Mr. Moreno, a foot pursuit resulted from this contact,” police said. ”At some point during the foot pursuit, shots were fired. The suspect was pronounced dead at the scene.” Corvinus was hit by gunfire during the incident and died at a hospital. Authorities did not provide details on why they made contact with Moreno, who had a criminal history that included felon in possession of a deadly weapon, aggravated residential burglary and escape from custody, police said. He also had three active arrest warrants, authorities said.  Corvinus was a   veteran of the Alamogordo Police Department. The desert town is home to about 31, 000 people.  This is the second fatal police shooting in the state in less than a month. Three weeks ago, Officer Jose Chavez was shot dead during a traffic stop in Hatch. Three suspects were arrested in that shooting.  Other police officers have been shot in other states in recent days. An officer in Atlantic City, New Jersey, was in critical condition Saturday morning after being shot in the street next to Caesars Hotel and Casino, a news release from the city prosecutor’s office said. It said two officers exchanged gunfire around 2:30 a. m. Saturday with three men who were robbing three other men near the casino parking garage. One of the officers was wounded and taken to AtlantiCare Regional Medical Center. All six men fled but one was found dead of a gunshot wound a block and a half away, the release said. Two other men were arrested later Saturday and charged with attempted murder and other offenses.  A sheriff’s deputy was wounded Friday afternoon in Douglas County, Colorado, after officers were dispatched to deal with a ”suicidal subject,” the sheriff’s department said in a news release. As officers arrived, the suspect drove away in a motor home and fired a weapon at the officers, who returned fire and killed the suspect, the release said. Deputy Daniel Brite was listed in critical condition at a local hospital, the sheriff’s department said.