A federal appeals court said Friday that Washington State has the authority to hear a trademark lawsuit by Trader Joe’s against a Canadian store called Pirate Joe’s that resold the grocery chain’s products. The ruling by the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit overturned a decision by a district court to dismiss the trademark case against Pirate Joe’s and its owner, Michael Hallatt. The district court had said that the violations occurred in Canada, where Trader Joe’s has no stores, and that the company failed to prove that Pirate Joe’s affected business in the United States. In its ruling, the appeals courts said the lawsuit could proceed because Mr. Hallatt’s actions  —   setting up a facsimile storefront in Vancouver, British Columbia, with knockoff branding and online merchandising  —   could devalue the   trademark. The case will return to a federal district court in Washington State. “We’re here to see it through, and that means doing this for the people who want this stuff,” Nathan Alexander, Mr. Hallatt’s lawyer, told The Associated Press. The decision reopens a case that began in October 2011 when workers at a Trader Joe’s in Bellingham, Wash. noticed Mr. Hallatt buying products in excess. He often returned several times every week. Mr. Hallatt acknowledged he was buying the products to distribute them in Canada through his store, then called Transilvania Trading, according to court documents. He later changed the name to Pirate Joe’s. Sometimes donning disguises to avoid detection, Mr. Hallatt conducted shopping runs and occasionally hired other people to buy goods on his behalf. An advertisement Mr. Hallat placed on Craigslist called for a “  for undercover work” with a “  international grocery smuggling operation. ” Court documents said Mr. Hallatt, who holds dual citizenship, had spent more than $350, 000 on goods from Trader Joe’s, which he resold in Canada at a markup. In 2013, the company filed a lawsuit in Washington against Mr. Hallatt for trademark infringement, unfair competition, false designation of origin and false advertising. It added that Pirate Joe’s was not an approved reseller. Responding to the lawsuit, Mr. Hallat said he never claimed an affiliation with the American company.