 (CNN) The following is a list of some of the 2016 Emmy nominations: Outstanding drama series, ”The Americans”  ”Better Call Saul” ”Downton Abbey” ”Game of Thrones”  ”Homeland” ”House of Cards”  ”Mr. Robot” Outstanding comedy series, ” ” ”Master of None” ”Modern Family” ”Silicon Valley” ”Transparent” ”Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt” ”Veep” Outstanding lead actor in a drama series, Kyle Chandler, ”Bloodline” Rami Malek, ”Mr. Robot” Bob Odenkirk, ”Better Call Saul” Matthew Rhys, ”The Americans” Liev Schreiber, ”Ray Donovan” Kevin Spacey, ”House of Cards” Outstanding lead actress in a drama series, Claire Danes, ”Homeland” Viola Davis, ”How to Get Away With Murder” Taraji P. Henson, ”Empire” Tatiana Maslany, ”Orphan Black” Keri Russell, ”The Americans” Robin Wright, ”House of Cards” Outstanding lead actor in a comedy series, Anthony Anderson, ” ” Aziz Ansari, ”Master of None”  Will Forte, ”Last Man on Earth” William H. Macy, ”Shameless” Thomas Middleditch ”Silicon Valley” Jeffrey Tambor, ”Transparent” Outstanding lead actress in a comedy series, Julia   ”Veep” Ellie Kemper, ”The Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt” Tracee Ellis Ross, ” ” Laurie Metcalf, ”Getting On” Amy Schumer, ”Inside Amy Schumer” Lily Tomlin, ”Grace and Frankie” Outstanding supporting actor in a drama series, Jonathan Banks, ”Better Call Saul” Peter Dinklage, ”Game of Thrones” Ben Mendelsohn, ”Bloodline” Christian Slater, ”Mr. Robot” Kit Harington, ”Game Of Thrones” Michael Kelly, ”House Of Cards” Jon Voight  ”Ray Donovan” Outstanding supporting actress in a drama series, Maura Tierney, ”The Affair” Maggie Smith, ”Downton Abbey” Lena Headey, ”Game Of Thrones” Emilia Clarke, ”Game Of Thrones” Maisie Williams, ”Game Of Thrones” Constance Zimmer, ”UnREAL” Outstanding supporting actress in a comedy series, Niecy Nash, ”Getting On” Allison Janney, ”Mom” Kate McKinnon, ”Saturday Night Live” Judith Light, ”Transparent ” Gaby Hoffmann, ”Transparent” Anna Chlumsky, ”Veep” Outstanding supporting actor in a comedy series, Louie Anderson, ”Baskets” Andre Braugher  ”Brooklyn  ”   Key, ”Key  Peele” Ty Burrell  ”Modern Family” Tituss Burgess, ”Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt” Tony Hale, ”Veep” Matt Walsh, ”Veep” Outstanding limited series, ”American Crime” ”Fargo” ”The Night Manager” ”The People v. O. J. Simpson: American Crime Story” ”Roots” Outstanding television movie, ”All the Way” ”Confirmation”  ”Luther” ”Sherlock: The Abominable Bride” ”A Very Murray Christmas” Outstanding lead actor in a miniseries or a movie, Bryan Cranston, ”All the Way” Benedict Cumberbatch, ”Sherlock: The Abominable Bride” Idris Elba, ”Luther” Cuba Gooding Jr. ”The People v. O. J. Simpson” Tom Hiddleston, ”The Night Manager” Courtney B. Vance, ”The People v. O. J. Simpson”  Outstanding lead actress in a limited series, Kirsten Dunst, ”Fargo” Felicity Huffman, ”American Crime” Audra McDonald, ”Lady Day at Emerson’s Bar  Grille” Sarah Paulson, ”The People v. O. J. Simpson” Lili Taylor, ”American Crime” Kerry Washington, ”Confirmation” Outstanding variety talk series, ”Comedians In Cars Getting Coffee” ”Jimmy Kimmel Live” ”Last Week Tonight With John Oliver” ”The Late Late Show With James Corden” ”Real Time With Bill Maher” ”The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon” Outstanding variety sketch series, ”Documentary Now!” ”Drunk History” ”Inside Amy Schumer ” ”Key  Peele” ”Portlandia” ”Saturday Night Live” Outstanding   program, ”The Amazing Race” ”American Ninja Warrior” ”Dancing With The Stars” ”Project Runway” ”Top Chef” ”The Voice” For the full list of nominations visit Emmys. com. 