ERIE, Pa.  —   Senator Tim Kaine of Virginia, Hillary Clinton’s running mate, challenged Donald J. Trump on Tuesday to be more forthcoming about his health, taking aim at Mr. Trump over an issue he has tried to use to undermine Mrs. Clinton. As part of a lengthy critique of Mr. Trump, Mr. Kaine mocked a   letter signed last year by a doctor for Mr. Trump, which proclaimed the candidate’s strength and stamina to be “extraordinary” and declared that he would be “the healthiest individual ever elected to the presidency. ” The doctor, Harold N. Bornstein, told NBC News last week that he had written the letter in five minutes while a black car waited outside his office to collect it. As for his choice of words about Mr. Trump, Dr. Bornstein said he “picked up his kind of language and then just interpreted it to my own. ” Mr. Trump “won’t even release credible information about his health,” Mr. Kaine said at a waterfront rally, where the picturesque backdrop included a   boat with the initials V. P. (for Victorian Princess, not vice president). Mr. Kaine, 58, accused Mr. Trump, 70, of withholding critical information from the public on a variety of fronts, including his tax returns and details about his business ties. “Hillary Clinton has met every test of disclosure we expect of presidential candidates  —   in many cases, has gone even further,” Mr. Kaine said. “Donald Trump has failed all of these tests miserably. ” Mrs. Clinton’s health has been the subject of conspiracy theories. Mr. Trump himself has raised questions about her fitness to serve as president, saying that Mrs. Clinton, 68, “lacks the mental and physical stamina” needed for the job. On that subject, Mr. Kaine offered a firsthand defense of Mrs. Clinton. Though he mostly campaigns separately from Mrs. Clinton, he testified to her energy on the campaign trail and told the crowd that she had been “running on full speed” for nearly a year and a half. “Can I give you an     on this?” he asked. “I have been on the trail with Hillary for five weeks, and I can barely keep up with her. ” Mr. Kaine, a lawyer by training, then offered his own medical appraisal. “I can tell you, Hillary Clinton is one tough and one healthy person,” he said. “Very, very tough and very, very healthy. ” And Mr. Kaine could not resist addressing Dr. Bornstein’s contention that Mr. Trump would be the healthiest president, especially given the White House’s    current occupant. “I’d like to see him go one on one with President Obama,” he said. “That’s for another day. ”