September 23, 2016, A retrospective on U. S. presidential debates is featured today on CNN Student News! Walk back through decades of televised   and find out what influenced voters. We’re also reporting on a state of emergency in North Carolina, a study that detected a heavy metal in much of America’s drinking water, and a look at what could be one of the biggest cybersecurity hacks ever. TRANSCRIPT, Click here to access the transcript of today’s CNN Student News program. Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published. WEEKLY NEWSQUIZ, Click here for a printable version of the Weekly Newsquiz (PDF). 1. What is the cheapest way to move gas or oil: through a pipeline, tanker truck, or ship? 2. Between 1915 and 1920, when U. S. consumption doubled, the West Coast developed a ”famine” or shortage of what liquid? 3. A terrorism suspect is in police custody following explosions and the discovery of unexploded devices in what two U. S. states? 4. Name the body of the United Nations whose annual meeting is taking place this month at its headquarters in New York City. 5. Following the recent bombing of a truck convoy and a warehouse, the United Nations announced that it was suspending its aid convoys in what nation? 6. A group of   activist organizations recently graded U. S.   chains. The grades depended on whether the restaurants’ meat was raised on what substances? 7. Name the U. S. ”battleground” or swing state that has 29 electoral votes and where the two main presidential candidates have spent $48 million on TV ads since the start of the general election. 8. Name the U. S. ”battleground” or swing state, also known as the Keystone State, that has 20 electoral votes and where the two main presidential candidates have made multiple trips seeking support. 9. What U. S. city is under a state of emergency, following a controversial police shooting and violent protests by civilians on Tuesday and Wednesday night? 10. Name the specific heavy metal that a U. S. environmental group recently found in almost 90 percent of water systems sampled across America. CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show.  Thank you for using CNN Student News!