WASHINGTON  —   Was the impeachment of Dilma Rousseff as the president of Brazil on Wednesday a coup? Technically, the answer is no. Although there is no single definition of what constitutes a coup, it is at its core an illegal seizure of power. The Brazilian Senate’s    vote to remove Ms. Rousseff was the culmination of a legal process set forth in the Brazilian Constitution, and it simply does not meet that standard. But Ms. Rousseff and her supporters have argued for months that the effort to oust her was in fact a coup engineered by a small group of elites. They are not bothered by strict legal definitions. Rather, “coup” has become shorthand for accusing Ms. Rousseff’s political opponents of exploiting the law to subvert democracy. There is truth to that. But it is rooted in problems that afflict Brazil’s entire political system, not just its right or its left. Any opposition party anywhere stands to gain from the downfall of the governing party’s leader. In Brazil, that was heightened by the fact that members of the opposition had been caught up in a major corruption scandal. Romero Jucá, an influential opposition legislator who had been implicated in the scandal, was recorded in March saying of the investigation, “We have to change the government to be able to stop this bleeding. ” Ms. Rousseff was impeached on what analysts near universally described as minor charges: concealing a budget deficit by borrowing from a   bank  —   illegal, but not a criminal offense. Amy Erica Smith, an assistant political science professor at Iowa State University who studies Brazil, said these charges “don’t rise to the level of the kind of accusations that would merit impeachment,” adding: “It’s not a legitimate use of the impeachment proceedings. ” This is why Ms. Rousseff and her allies argued that the politicians pushing impeachment were not trying to protect the integrity of Brazilian democracy, but, rather, to manipulate it to serve their own ends. Calling the impeachment a coup became a way to question the motives of opposition leaders and to argue that impeaching Ms. Rousseff would be contrary to democracy. Normally, following the law  —   which the impeachers were indeed doing  —   by design serves democracy. But, in Brazil, there is currently just enough corruption and just enough rule of law for political elites to play the two against each other. Corruption, Professor Smith explained, is so endemic in Brazilian politics that it most likely implicates the entire governing class. The country also has a powerful judiciary that is actively working to investigate and prosecute corruption  —   an unstable combination. This gives political elites both a means and an incentive to expose their rivals, knowing it will probably ruin them. After all, if everyone is corrupt, everyone is vulnerable. But while that serves individual politicians, it weakens the wider political system by introducing instability. And because Brazil’s economy is doing so poorly, the public is, understandably, angry at the government and eager to see corruption punished. So while Ms. Rousseff’s supporters might see this impeachment as a cynical ploy, her opponents see a symbolic blow against a corrupt system  —   even if that corruption extends across party lines. There is also an important class dimension playing out. Ms. Rousseff led the   Workers Party, which positions itself as a champion of the poor. The opposition Party of the Brazilian Democratic Movement, which pushed for Ms. Rousseff’s ouster and took power after she was suspended from office in May, is seen as a champion of business interests. In the eyes of Workers Party devotees, the impeachment proceedings had an element of class warfare, with the elite seizing power to protect their interests  —   which, to the other side, looks and feels like a coup even if it does not meet the formal definition. That perception was captured by a photograph, which went viral on social media, of a   couple in a wealthy neighborhood walking to a protest against President Rousseff in March while their maid pushed their children in a stroller alongside them. “When people talk about ‘coup mongers,’ ” said Professor Smith, “they’re often implicitly thinking about, you know, a rich white woman who is upset that her maid now is entitled to labor protections that limit what this rich white woman can ask her maid to do. ” But this view, promoted by Ms. Rousseff’s staunchest supports, is something of a caricature. An April poll by the firm Datafolha found that 61 percent of Brazilians supported holding impeachment proceedings against Ms. Rousseff, and that her approval rating was a scant 13 percent. . So it is not the case, as some have argued, that Ms. Rousseff’s impeachment was a coup in the sense that a handful of elites subverted the popular will. Nor have they, in these proceedings, gone outside the law. Rather, Ms. Rousseff’s political opponents have done something subtler: They exploited the popular will and the letter of the law to serve their own interests, rather than the interests of democracy. Of course, in all countries, politicians act out of  . And impeachment proceedings are always political  —   something that any American who lived through President Bill Clinton’s impeachment hearings can tell you. But the particular nature of Brazil’s system at this moment makes its politics particularly unstable, and gives individual politicians greater power to leverage democracy toward ends that are not so democratic.