 (CNN) Nancy O’Dell is the married woman who rejected Donald Trump’s advances, as described in lewd comments he made in a 2005 conversation that surfaced Friday. ”Access Hollywood,” the NBC show O’Dell   in 2005, identified her Friday as the woman Trump vulgarly discussed with Billy Bush, O’Dell’s   at the time. Today O’Dell is the   of CBS’s ”Entertainment Tonight.” ”When I heard the comments yesterday, it was disappointing to hear such objectification of women,” O’Dell said in a statement released Saturday by ”Entertainment Tonight.” ”Politics aside, I’m saddened that these comments still exist in our society at all,” she said. ”The conversation needs to change because no female, no person, should be the subject of such crass comments, whether or not cameras are rolling. Everyone deserves respect no matter the setting or gender.” O’Dell is an accomplished entertainment journalist and author with a career that includes awards and honors for her work and her beauty. Throughout her career she’s met and interviewed hundreds of American celebrities. She started her TV career at local stations in her native South Carolina, reporting and anchoring in Myrtle Beach and Charleston before moving to Miami’s NBC affiliate  . From there she joined ”Access Hollywood” in 1996. Author,   O’Dell won an Emmy and three Associated Press awards for her work. She was also honored by the beauty industry in 2009 with the inaugural ”Beautiful Humanitarian Award,” given to a public figure ”who exemplifies beauty, both on the inside and out,” according to the professional beauty association website. In 2005, the year Trump made the lewd comments about her, she married Keith Zubchevich, a tech executive. Her daughter Ashby was born two years later. Motherhood turned O’Dell into an author. She wrote ”Full of Life:    Tips I Wish Someone Had Told Me When I Was Pregnant,” published in 2009, and two more parenting books. According to her Twitter account, she is a devoted Clemson University fan. She’s an alumna who finished in the top 2% of her class, according to her official biography. Last year, O’Dell became an official spokeswoman for ALS. net, which raises funds for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, more commonly known as Lou Gehrig’s Disease. The cause is dear to her because her mother was diagnosed with ALS in 2007 and died from complications related to the disease in 2008. She was also a global ambassador for the 2015 Special Olympics World Games. ”Nancy is passionate about inclusion and respect for all people, including those with intellectual disabilities,” her website says. CNN has sought comment from O’Dell’s representatives, but has not gotten a response.