CEDAR KEY, Fla.  —   Florida may have largely dodged catastrophic damage from Hurricane Hermine, which blew through the state on Friday, but you would not have known it by visiting this artsy village of about 700 people in the northwest, near the Panhandle. Teresa Gonzalez sat inside what was left of her pink and purple Beach Front Motel on Friday afternoon and started calling customers to cancel their reservations. The hurricane had knocked out one wall of her motel, and the storm surge left the place littered with debris. The sandbags she had laid around the property had been carried away. “None of us expected anything like this,” said Ms. Gonzalez, who moved to Cedar Key five years ago. “There is a lot of damage on this island, and it wasn’t until last night really that they told us the surge would be up to 11 feet. By then it was too late. ” She added: “There is not much we can do but shut down and rebuild again. ” The police chief, Virgil Sandlin, said the town had been “devastated” by the wind, the rain and a   storm surge that coincided with high tide. The island had been under an evacuation order, and most people had left. Many houses, even those on stilts, had lost walls as the wind pried them loose or trees crashed down. Floodwaters invaded many homes and businesses in this Gulf village more than two hours north of Tampa. City Hall flooded, and the town’s waterfront thoroughfare, Dock Street, was seriously damaged. The cleanup, Chief Sandlin said, will require substantial work. “I’ve been here 34 years, and I’ve never seen anything like that,” he said. “In my view, we got the worst damage. It’s devastating, almost breathtaking to see what wind and water has done compared to some of the other systems that have come through here. ” Some businesses looked like they were beyond repair, he said. One house had burned. “There will be a lot of them that will be fixable, and some of them no,” Chief Sandlin said. On the waterfront, many of the restaurants had been ravaged by the wind and the waves. A new fixture sat inside the Big Deck Bar and Grill it had come from the restaurant across the street. “Their staircases are in our dining room here,” said Darlene Skarupski, who owns the restaurant with her husband. She stood with a cold beer in hand outside a     window that dared, “Bring it on, Hermine. ” “I don’t even know where to begin,” she said. A few hours after the storm, as people streamed back into their homes and businesses, a sense of camaraderie took hold. People with shovels started clearing out debris. One storefront started piping music out to the street. Another business started offering free coffee to  . And the storm itself headed for the Carolinas as a tropical storm, leaving areas of northern Florida to cope with the aftermath of the first hurricane in 11 years. The Category 1 hurricane toppled countless trees, flooded homes and cut electricity to hundreds of thousands of people. The National Hurricane Center said the storm made landfall at 1:30 a. m. Friday near the tiny town of St. Marks, 30 minutes south of Tallahassee, with winds of 80 miles per hour. Last night it was making its way up the Eastern Seaboard, where it will continue to unleash rain and high winds through the Labor Day weekend. Tropical storm watches are in effect. The government warned of “the possibility of threatening inundation” through Sunday morning at “most coastal locations” between the North   border and Bridgeport, Conn. In Maryland, Gov. Larry Hogan declared a state of emergency for parts of the state in anticipation of the storm. In Florida, the cleanup began early Friday. “There is a lot of work left to do, and we will spend the coming days assessing damage left by the hurricane,” said Gov. Rick Scott, who rode out part of the storm in the governor’s mansion in Tallahassee, where several trees toppled on the property. Despite the direct hit on Florida, the   winds spared most of the northern part of the state, leaving behind a manageable mess in the most affected counties and not the kind of catastrophic damage a more powerful storm could have wrought. One person was reported killed, a homeless man in Marion County who was hit by a tree. The greatest property damage came to the state’s small Gulf Coast communities, many of which were built on islands that cater to tourists. In addition to Cedar Key, other communities were also starting to rebuild. Farther north, in St. Marks, where the hurricane came ashore, water had poured into a   . In Taylor County, the county administrator, Dustin Hinkel, said the coast had “sustained severe damage. ” In Steinhatchee, a small fishing community in Taylor County where the governor made a   visit, some residents were being ferried by boat to their homes. Parts of the county battled a   surge of water. The Florida National Guard had been called in to help. Mr. Scott had urged people in   communities to evacuate, and it appeared that most people had heeded his advice. Only a handful of rescues took place across north Florida, including 18 people in Pasco County who were plucked out of floodwaters. In the marshy fishing village of Suwannee, where Gulf Coast waters meet the Suwannee River, almost everyone had obeyed the county’s evacuation orders except for a few   who were holding a hurricane party with vodka and cranberry juice. Others though found lodging where they could. About 25 miles away in Old Town, the Suwannee Gables Motel and Marina compensated for a wave of holiday weekend cancellations by accommodating waterfront residents scrambling for shelter. Hurricane Hermine was the first hurricane to make landfall in Florida since Hurricane Wilma in 2005. Back on Cedar Key, which Mr. Scott visited Friday evening to assess the damage, Ms. Gonzalez said as bad as things were, she had one thing to be grateful for as evening approached. “At least we have a home to go to,” she said.