 (CNN) A Detroit man pleaded not guilty Friday to murder charges and other offenses in connection with the shooting death of a Wayne State University police officer. DeAngelo Lamar Davis, 31, will remain in jail without bond, the judge said. The probable cause hearing for Davis is scheduled for December 9 and his ‎preliminary examination is on December 16.  Davis said he was unemployed the judge said an attorney would be appointed. Officer Collin Rose, 29, died Wednesday from a gunshot wound he suffered during a traffic stop the previous night, authorities said. The Wayne County prosecutor’s office said Rose conducted a traffic investigation of Davis, who was riding a bicycle in the area of Lincoln and Brainard in Detroit.  Rose called for backup at 6:31 p. m. while he was attempting to take Davis into custody and was shot in the head soon after, the news release said.  A Wayne State officer arrived about 6:34 p. m. and transported Rose to Detroit Receiving Hospital, where he died, the release said. Davis was arrested several hours later. Davis was charged with   premeditated murder, possession of firearm while in commission of a felony, murder of policeman or corrections officer, possession of a firearm while in commission of a felony, possession of a firearm by a felon and possession of firearm while in commission of a felony. ”Universally, Officer Rose was respected, admired, and one that had an excellent work ethic,” Prosecutor Kym Worthy said. ”Our hearts go out to the family and friends of Officer Rose. All of us at the Wayne County Prosecutor’s Office grieve along with the Wayne State University community and the law enforcement community. This case strongly illustrates the dangers that police officers face every minute of every day.” The suspect was at first held on outstanding misdemeanor warrants, one from 2011 and another from 2014, according to university police Chief Anthony Holt. Wayne State University police encountered the suspect a few years ago. In one incident, the suspect was blocking traffic in the middle of the street and refused to leave. There was a scuffle with police, and one of the officers involved suffered minor injuries, according to Holt. Working on a master’s was to be married, Rose was a   veteran of the police force and worked as a canine officer. ”Not only is he a canine handler, he’s very, very involved in the community. He goes to schools. He gives out demos,” Holt said. ”He’s just an outstanding, proactive officer.” A couple of months ago, Rose organized a memorial for slain Detroit police Officer Patrick Hill. Rose named one of his dogs, Wolverine, after Hill, according to Holt. Rose was one credit away from finishing his master’s degree in police administration from Wayne State University. He was engaged to be married in October 2017. The gun used to shoot Rose hasn’t been found.  This shooting comes after a violent few days for police officers across the country. On Sunday night, four officers were shot while on duty, one fatally. 