SAN FRANCISCO  —   During a   product showcase held on Wednesday in one of rock music’s most storied venues, Apple executives signaled that the company was heading toward a wireless future, where devices would connect without cables. A big step in that direction is the removal of a headphone jack from the latest version of the iPhone, called the iPhone 7. What was lacking in Apple’s presentation, as has been the case for the Silicon Valley giant in recent years, was a new, can’  hit like the original iPod. There wasn’t even a dramatic change to an old classic, like the bigger iPhones it introduced in 2014. But if you like tweaks to products you may already have, Apple had plenty to offer at the Bill Graham Civic Auditorium, a cavernous arena named for a famous music promoter that has hosted the likes of the Grateful Dead and Bob Dylan. The iPhone 7 includes a better camera and the bigger iPhone 7 Plus has a second   camera with a telephoto lens. It also has an improved home button that lets users perform different tasks by varying how hard they press it. “Basically, Apple has shifted from one killer feature per upgrade, such as a larger screen, to a variety of compelling improvements that will appeal to a range of buyers,” said Frank Gillett, an analyst at Forrester Research. For more than a decade, Apple has experienced explosive revenue and earnings growth thanks to new hit products, including the iPod, the iPhone and the iPad. That streak stopped with the release of the Apple Watch last year, though executives maintain that sales have exceeded expectations. Apple’s stock price is just about where it was a year ago, and this year the company has posted two consecutive quarters of declining revenue. For the first time, iPhone revenue also dipped, as the global market for smartphones began to shrink and consumers began replacing their smartphones less frequently. Executives expect sales to fall again this quarter. But there are probably plenty more dollars to be wrung from Apple’s existing products. This update to the iPhone has been a cause for excitement  —   and controversy  —   among Apple fans. Removing the port for headphones from the iPhone means they now connect only wirelessly or through a charging port. The redesign also encourages users to upgrade to Apple’s new wireless earbuds, AirPods, which cost $160. While the updates to the iPhone were incremental, Apple executives hinted that the iPhone changes were part of a companywide effort to wirelessly connect everything inside a home. Timothy D. Cook, Apple’s chief executive, explained how his company’s technology could be the central way to control all sorts of home wireless devices. “This is Apple’s way of saying that someday the smartphone experience will be wireless,” said Tim Bajarin, an analyst at Creative Strategies. But will it be enough to reignite iPhone sales? “Not by itself,” he said. “But this along with the other tech upgrades like cameras and processors should drive high interest for those needing to upgrade, as well as draw interest by new customers too. ” Talk about a wireless future had people already looking toward big changes that could be in store for next year, the 10th anniversary of the iPhone, and beyond. Mr. Bajarin, for example, expects Apple to introduce wireless charging to the iPhone in the near future. Should wireless connections become a bigger part of Apple’s future, it is not a leap to imagine closer integration between the company’s various devices and its software meant for cars, called CarPlay. This isn’t the first time Apple has risked angering customers by moving away from a traditional design. Its desktop computers accommodated a   disk, rather than the standard   floppy disk and more recently it eliminated the CD drive and several ports from its laptops. Some customers considered those changes shocking, even downright hostile acts. They got over it. “Apple has a history of doing what it wants and making people believe that it’s the best idea ever,” said Julie A. Ask, an analyst at Forrester Research. “The company has an affluent customer base that has in the past paid to upgrade because it cares about the quality of the experience. ” Other cosmetic changes were made to the new iPhone 7 and 7 Plus, which look much like their predecessors and will have starting prices of $650 and $770. The phones will come in new colors, including a shiny, jet black and matte black, in addition to the existing options of silver, gold and rose gold. Apple also unveiled an updated version of the Apple Watch that includes GPS tracking, which would make it more appealing to runners. It has a faster operating system that lets apps work more quickly and could make performing some tasks easier on the watch than on an iPhone. The Apple Watch Series 2 starts at $370. And the original Apple Watch, rebranded Apple Watch Series 1, starts at $270. The company emphasized that the Apple Watch was a useful tool for monitoring health, one of the few functions that users have embraced, and announced a partnership with Nike. It also made the new version   and added tracking for swimmers. “The watch is still missing a killer app,” Ms. Ask said, noting that some of the functions that the Apple Watch performs especially well, such as payments, have not taken off. The Apple Watch still accounts for such a tiny portion of the company’s revenue that Apple doesn’t break out the number when it reports quarterly earnings. But Mr. Cook revealed on Wednesday that Apple was now the No. 2 global watch brand, measured by revenue, behind Rolex, and that Apple’s was the   smartwatch. The overall market for wearable devices is growing. In the United States, 63. 7 million adults, or about a quarter of the population, use a wearable device. That number is expected to increase by more than 17 percent next year to 74. 8 million adults, according to the research firm eMarketer. Apple has grown increasingly dependent on software and services for growth. On earnings calls with analysts, the company has emphasized the role that software and services play in keeping customers hooked on Apple’s products. Ben Schachter, an analyst with Macquarie Securities, estimates that services such as Apple Music account for nearly   of Apple’s quarterly profits. Mr. Cook underscored that idea at the event with updates on Apple Music and the App Store. Mr. Cook said that Apple Music had 17 million subscribers and that the company would work to nail down more exclusive deals with artists. He also said that the hit game Super Mario would come to the App Store and that Pokémon Go would be available on the Apple Watch.