Did Hillary Clinton, or somebody very much like her, have to be the first woman to get this close to winning the presidency? We explore that question in the latest episode of The   with Claire McCaskill, the senior United States Senator from Missouri, and Gail Collins, a New York Times columnist who has written several books on women’s history. What   combination of factors is required for a country to embrace a woman as its leader for the first time? Longtime public exposure? Proximity to power? Moderate politics? And how powerful, perhaps even necessary, is it that this first woman be the spouse of a former president? History offers a guide: The first female president of any country was Isabel Martínez de Perón of Argentina, the wife of its former president. The first woman elected to the United States Senate, Hattie Wyatt Caraway, was the widow of a senator. And now the United States has the first woman candidate in the general election. “Given our history it’s not surprising it’s the wife of somebody who had the job first,” Ms. Collins said. “Some day we’ll have some really charismatic woman who gets people all excited, and it doesn’t matter that she’s only been in the senate for two years and that we don’t know much about her except her story,” Ms. Collins said. Mrs. Clinton’s presidential runs will have paved the way for that woman to have a shot. “No matter what happens in this election, one of the great contributions Hillary Clinton has made to American history is that she made it seem sort of normal to have a woman running for president in 2008,” Ms. Collins said. “Before then it had never been a normal thing. ” America is behind many other countries on that front, as Senator McCaskill pointed out. “Many of us are painfully aware of how many countries around the world have elected and admired women executives in their government, and it is embarrassing to many of us that America has not taken that step,” she said. “The irony is that everyone always would pat women on the head and say ‘well you know as soon as a woman is qualified there will be a woman president,’ ” Senator McCaskill said. “Now we have a stark differential in qualifications, and now it seems to be all about her integrity and how likable she is. ” In the episode, we discuss the challenges of running against a woman with former Representative Rick Lazio of Long Island, a man who discovered those pitfalls in a very public fashion. In 2000, he was Mrs. Clinton’s opponent in the race for the United States Senate seat in New York. In a   debate moment, Mr. Lazio approached Mrs. Clinton’s podium to ask her to sign a pledge, a tactic many saw as an overly aggressive male gesture toward a female rival. Mr. Lazio told us it was a mistake that he still regrets  —   and one whose visual impact he underestimated in the moment. “Our folks all thought we had won the debate hands down,” he told us. But the next day, he saw that clip played over and over again and realized that the moment was going to stick. “The mistake that I made  —   and it was a mistake  —   was to create an optic where it looked like I was somebody other than who I was it looked like I was invading her space and was not chivalrous,” he told us. “It was spun in the media and shown over and over again, and it looked like it was an overbearing male approaching a female. ” Please let us know what you think of The  . You can reach us at therunup@nytimes. com, or find me on Twitter. You can also rate and review us on iTunes. From a desktop or laptop, you can listen by pressing play on the button above. Or if you’re on a mobile device, the instructions below will help you find and subscribe to the series. On your iPhone or iPad: 1. Open your podcast app. It’s a   app called “Podcasts” with a purple icon. (This link might help.) 2. Search for the series. Tap on the “search” magnifying glass icon at the bottom of the screen, type in “The  ” and select it from the list of results. 3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, tap on the “subscribe” button to have new episodes sent to your phone for free. You may want to adjust your notifications to be alerted when a new episode arrives. 4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before deciding to subscribe, tap on the episode title from the list on the series page. If you have an internet connection, you’ll be able to stream the episode. On your Android phone or tablet: 1. Open your podcast app. It’s a   app called “Play Music” with an    icon. (This link might help.) 2. Search for the series. Click on the magnifying glass icon at the top of the screen, search for the name of the series and select it from the list of results. You may have to scroll down to find the “Podcasts” search results. 3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, click on the word “subscribe” to have new episodes sent to your phone for free. 4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before deciding to subscribe, click on the episode title from the list on the series page. If you have an internet connection, you’ll be able to stream the episode.