Searching for an apartment online has long been limited to plugging in what you can afford and where you think you might want to live and then sifting through dozens of listings. But what if you don’t have a neighborhood in mind? In a city as large as New York, there are probably neighborhoods you’ve never heard of. And even a place you think you know can change character within just a few blocks. So many factors are involved: Is it safe? Are there good schools? Is the subway nearby? Where will I take yoga class? And don’t forget the crucial but less tangible concerns: Will my family be happy here? Will we be welcome? You could end up spending hours researching school test scores, interviewing families at the local playground and besieging your friend’s sister’s cousin with questions about what it’s like to live there. Or you could resort to the growing number of apps and online tools that use a combination of big data and smart algorithms that offer to do your research for you at no charge. With names like PlaceILive and PicketFencer, they work like matchmaking services, taking your preferences into account and offering a list of neighborhoods that meet your criteria. PlaceILive, a   based in Lithuania, introduced an interactive quiz called Match earlier this year designed to help find your ideal New York City neighborhood. You answer a series of questions  —   Do you play any sports? Which is your preferred mode of transportation? Do you want quiet, green, residential, diverse, social, hip, artsy, L. G. B. T. ? And then, taking your budget and your office address into account, PlaceILive analyzes and prioritizes 288 neighborhoods, then delivers its top 10 picks. I searched for a   for $750, 000 in a quiet, green and safe residential neighborhood with restaurants, schools, car parking and a   commute, preferably by subway, from The New York Times, which just happens to be the default address in the office field. In short order the site delivered a top 10 list, with Washington Heights as the No. 1 match, followed by Inwood and Harlem Longwood and Fordham in the Bronx Woodside, Queens East Harlem and Astoria, Elmhurst, and Maspeth in Queens. I could have clicked “more neighborhoods” for more results. While some of those places seemed like   there were a couple of neighborhoods I would not have considered on my own, like Longwood in the Bronx, an area I have yet to explore. But Maspeth, which lacks a subway, seemed like a stretch. Google Maps estimated the commute by bus and train would take about 50 minutes. Results draw on statistics from the Census Bureau, New York Police Department crime maps and other open data sources. Clicking on “more details” lists these stats along with resident reviews from the website StreetAdvisor, school ratings from Greatschools. org, a map and pictures of grocery stores, restaurants, bars and other amenities from Foursquare, a destination for   reviews of businesses like cafes. Even with all these data points, however, it can be difficult to get a feel for what a neighborhood is like to live in. While StreetAdvisor, which offers neighborhood ratings and reviews from locals, provided some context, some areas, like Longwood, didn’t have any. And some school ratings used by the site were slightly outdated, according to Greatschools. Sarunas Legeckas, a founder of PlaceILive, said the site is working to refine its results and pointed out that if the neighborhoods don’t suit your fancy, you can let the site know by clicking on the X beneath the neighborhood, which will pull up a list of the reasons the neighborhood might not be right for you  —   such as it’s too trendy, or not hip enough, or it doesn’t have a great commute. “We don’t claim all our results are perfect,” he said. “It’s more like a guidance tool to make you think, to make you explore and maybe point you in a new direction  —   like looking in Queens instead of Manhattan. ” As more users take the quiz and leave feedback, he added, the tool will get smarter. More robust neighborhood descriptions, albeit for far fewer places, can be found at StreetEasy, the New York City listings site, which introduced more than 30 Neighborhood Guides in June with overviews of some of the most popular places searched on its site. Each guide outlines the area’s overall vibe, including perks, drawbacks, housing stock and median asking rent and sales price, as well as dining options courtesy of the review site Yelp. Bushwick, Brooklyn, for example, is described as “full of converted lofts in old industrial factories, sometimes with great access to outdoor space. ” The mood: “Equal parts   Hispanic and hipster bohemian, the neighborhood is both a   community and the site of much creativity. ” Best perk: “Seemingly every week, there’s a new restaurant, bar, or art gallery popping up. ” Biggest downside: “Vestiges of the poverty from the 70s and 80s remain. Many buildings are rundown and pockets of crime still exist. ” While there are just 35 searchable neighborhoods compared with the 288 at PlaceILive, StreetEasy’s results are presented in a rich,   format that may appeal to those less  . Selecting from StreetEasy’s list of neighborhood characteristics like “ ” and “ ” whittles down the number of places. Information on schools, while included in StreetEasy listings pages, is not mentioned in the neighborhood guides given the complexity of school zones, which can vary within a given neighborhood, said Susan Daimler, the general manager of StreetEasy, which is owned by Zillow Group, an online real estate database company. Naked Apartments, a New York City rental site and app, which was acquired by Zillow Group earlier this year, offers a similar Neighborhood Finder on its website that distills your search to apartment size, price, building features (doorman,   et cetera) and neighborhood “vibes” including “fun night life” and “cool factor. ” It seems a bit dated compared with StreetEasy’s guides, requiring a series of clicks to find neighborhood descriptions, but includes more destinations in its results. The New York Times introduced a neighborhood recommendation tool based on your budget earlier this year. When a recent search for a   for $750, 000 in Park Slope, Brooklyn, resulted in zero listings, for example, clicking “Where Should I Live” pulled up a graph pointing to the Brooklyn neighborhoods of Prospect Heights, Windsor Terrace and Williamsburg as alternatives with listings at that price. PicketFencer, a new site and web app focused on the New York suburbs, was born of David Leibowitz’s frustrations when making the leap from Brooklyn about six years ago. “There were plenty of sites that helped you find a house, but there was nothing for when you need to decide where you want to live in the first place. ” Word of mouth eventually led Mr. Leibowitz’s family to Maplewood, N. J. but the process, he said, “just seemed so lacking in rigor. ” With hundreds of towns outside the city to choose among, all with different commutes, school systems and personalities, he added, “it was hard to make sense of all these variables. ” PicketFencer, which Mr. Leibowitz subsequently founded, made its debut last month. New Yorkers looking to move to the suburbs can filter some 600 towns throughout New Jersey, Westchester County, Long Island and Connecticut by commute time, school ratings, affordability or walkability. Selecting a   commute from New York City, for example, school ratings of at least nine out of 10 and a walkability score of at least 70 of 100 produced nine neighborhoods, including Larchmont in Westchester County, New Hyde Park on Long Island, and Cranford, N. J. in Union County. Social content from Instagram, YouTube, Yelp and Twitter provides a snapshot of the town’s personality. And there are links to descriptive articles from The New York Times and other publications. For more   PicketFencer also offers to connect users with a real estate agent. But the site still has a way to go in terms of data context. It wasn’t initially clear, for example, what kind of transportation  —   car, train, bus?  —   the commute time to New York City is based on or why one town has a walkability score of 70 and another a 90. “We definitely want to do a better job of that,” Mr. Leibowitz said. Clicking an information icon to the left of the filters, he pointed out, explains that commute time is based on “public transportation. ” Even with kinks that need working out, such tools help fill an information gap. Real estate agents, citing   laws that prevent them from steering people to or from certain places based on race, religion, sex, marital status and other categories, tend to sidestep many questions about neighborhoods. “I totally appreciate the intent behind the law,” said Frederick Warburg Peters, the chief executive of Warburg Realty in New York. “But the intense fear of offending anyone or making anyone feel possibly excluded goes to such lengths that literally we end up being able not to say anything. People ask us, ‘Are there other young children in the building?’ and we are not supposed to answer. ” Kara I. Rakowski, a partner at the law firm Belkin Burden Wenig  Goldman, said if the online tools are involved with the sale, rental and financing of dwellings, by, say, offering listings or selling advertising to brokerage firms, they could be subject to   laws. “The fact that they are providing a service to try to assist people in finding the right neighborhood that fits them is great,” she said, but if the service “is really encouraging or discouraging protected classes from those neighborhoods, that could be an issue for them. ” Because it is a data company and does not sell or rent homes, Mr. Legeckas said PlaceILive is not in violation of fair housing laws. Other sites pointed out that they do not display data about or allow searching by any of the categories protected by   laws. Some services still rely on the human touch. Alison Bernstein is the founder of Suburban Jungle, a    real estate advisory firm that works personally with city dwellers to find the right suburb for their lifestyle. Ms. Bernstein’s territory is what no algorithm will cover, like knowing “what the moms are wearing to ” or that “every kid has a Mandarin tutor at the age of 6. ” “These are all intangible things that you have to live with on a daily basis,” she said, “and no computer program can express that to you. ” To determine a match, clients are assigned a “suburb strategist” who is not a real estate agent and is trained to dig deep, asking, for example, “what is your definition of a good school?” Ms. Bernstein said. “For one family it might be top test scores. For other people that might be a nightmare, because they don’t want a pressure cooker. ” Once a town or towns has been chosen, clients are referred to real estate agents who have been vetted by Suburban Jungle, which receives a portion of the commission should the client buy a home. Bottom line: While the new tools can help focus your search and may help you uncover some neighborhoods you might have overlooked on your own, even the best data cannot substitute for the sensation of walking down a street and feeling that you are home.