It looked like free money all over the highway. But even the most opportunistic of motorists likely passed by without taking any. Early Thursday morning, a   on Interstate 95 near the Delaware Memorial Bridge hit a highway barrier, flipped over and caught fire, spilling about 45, 000 pounds of blank pennies across the northbound lanes, according to the Delaware State Police. That means about eight million coins covered the roadway. Had they been stamped, they would have been worth about $81, 600. Master Cpl. Jeffrey Hale, a police spokesman, confirmed that the vehicle had been heading to the Philadelphia Mint and that the coins were blank. That means, of course, that they were simply discs of   zinc that dreamed of being pennies. The driver, Stefan Marinkovic, 25, of Chicago, sustained minor injuries after veering right and crashing into an impact attenuator before riding onto a highway barrier and flipping over. The police did not know why the   had gone to the right, but Mr. Marinkovic was able to free himself and was taken to a hospital, the police said. He received a citation for inattentive driving. Corporal Hale said that he did not believe any of the wayward coins had been picked up by passing drivers, but that he was not sure whether they had all been recovered. Those that were will be stored until they can be taken to the mint, the police said. Parts of   North and   East were shut down for more than 13 hours in response to the crash, disrupting many people’s commutes. Some of them took to social media to complain. A Twitter user named Jordan Naft said that what was typically a   drive to work was taking him close to an hour and a half because of the crash, which occurred just before 2 a. m. “Now those delays make cents,” another Twitter user quipped. Mike White, a spokesman for the United States Mint, said that pennies, which are 97. 5 percent zinc and just 2. 5 percent copper, weighed 2. 5 grams apiece. After making sure the driver had not been seriously hurt, Jeff Gore, a physics professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the founder of an organization called Citizens to Retire the Penny, said that he liked the idea of the image of hundreds of thousands of blank pennies on the road, as it illustrated the wasteful practice of continuing to produce the coins. “We all know that nobody picks up actual pennies off the sidewalk,” he said. “But I imagine if you have a hundred thousand penny blanks on the highway, someone’s going to have to do that. ” “Even if the truck had made it there without incident, they would still be doing something that doesn’t make any sense,” he added. “We’d still be making a coin that nobody wants. ”