Ryan Lochte’s drunken night out with three other members of the United States Olympic swim team at the Rio Olympics  —   and his   story about an armed robbery that the authorities in Brazil say never happened  —   resulted in no physical injuries. That is, unless you count the black eyes incurred by U. S. A. Swimming and the United States Olympic Committee, the governing bodies for which Lochte proved an indecorous ambassador. As befits a victimless crime, the punishments announced Thursday, nearly a month after the fact, for Lochte and his accomplices  —   Gunnar Bentz, Jack Conger and Jimmy Feigen  —   were largely symbolic. The ringleader, Lochte, 32, a heavily decorated veteran of four Olympics, was given a   suspension from domestic and international competitions. The disciplinary measure will prevent him from taking part in the 2017 world championships in Budapest, because the selection meet for the American team falls during his suspension. He was hardly a lock to qualify for the meet anyway, given his slowing performances in the past year. In his one individual event in Rio, the 200 individual medley, he did not win a medal. Bentz, 20 Conger, 21 and Feigen, 26, who kept the truth to themselves for more than 72 hours after Lochte told a tall tale on television about their night out, were handed   suspensions, which will not cause them to miss any major domestic or international competitions. Because Bentz violated the team code of conduct by slipping out of the athletes’ village after the swimmers had been told that only those 21 or older were cleared to leave, he was given an additional 10 hours of community service. All three are barred from United States Olympic Committee facilities  —   at a time when they would be unlikely to use them (especially Conger and Bentz, who are in college). The swimmers’ troubles began after a night of drunken revelry following the final session of the   swimming competition. They asked the taxi driver who was returning them to the athletes’ village from a party to pull over at a gas station. What happened next remains murky but involved public urination, vandalism and money changing hands between the swimmers and security guards brandishing weapons. In Lochte’s original account, which he gave in a television interview with NBC the next morning, he said the taxi had been stopped by armed men he believed were police officers, one of whom held a gun against his head before taking cash from his wallet. His story encapsulated the fears of Olympic visitors and the insecurities of a host city struggling with high crime and gun battles between drug gangs and the police. After the Brazilian authorities opened their own investigation, Lochte altered his story and acknowledged that he had “overexaggerated,” but not before the events had overshadowed the accomplishments of American athletes during the second week of the Games. Brazilian prosecutors are weighing formal charges against Lochte for providing false testimony to the police about the incident the authorities have said that no robbery occurred. They also said that while the security guards were armed, they stopped the swimmers from leaving only so they would pay the gas station manager for the damage done to the property. The timing of the announcement by the Olympic committee, which acted in concert with U. S. A. Swimming, was curious given that this story once again threatened to overshadow   athletes, in this case the Paralympians. Confirmation of the suspensions came on the day after Wednesday’s opening ceremony for the Paralympics, which are taking place in Rio in many of the same venues as the Olympics. Scott Blackmun, chief executive of the Olympic committee, had made it clear in Rio de Janeiro that one of the more regrettable aspects of Lochte’s behavior was how it hijacked the spotlight from deserving track and field and wrestling stars in the second week of the Games. Lochte’s bouts of public partying often turn up in the gossip pages. His longtime rival, Michael Phelps, who had twice been arrested on charges of driving under the influence of alcohol, appears to have turned his life around after his   stay at a treatment center in 2014. Lochte could have learned a lot from Phelps’s example, but then, he has spent over a decade merrily building his reputation as the antithesis of the disciplined, hyperfocused Phelps. Clearly, though, Lochte is not the swimmer he once was. His swims this summer were markedly slower than his efforts a year ago. His   finish in the   freestyle at the United States Olympic trials was more than a second slower than his fastest time from 2015. In the   individual medley, the only individual event that Lochte qualified to swim at the Olympics, he did not break 1 minute 56 seconds at the trials or at the Olympics after posting a 1:55. 81 in 2015. In the 200 I. M. at the trials, the average age of the five swimmers who finished directly behind Lochte was 20. 0 years. If Lochte were serious about holding off the youngsters gaining on him, he would have committed to spending the fall working on his freestyle stroke rather than his freestyle dance as a contestant on “Dancing With the Stars. ” As part of the penalties, Lochte loses his $   U. S. A. Swimming stipend, but his turn on “Dancing With the Stars,” and the   fee he will get for his toil and trouble, will more than make up for that loss. Lochte also is required to perform 20 hours of community service. After four Olympics and 12 medals, he appears adrift. The punishment for a night of stupidity amounts to a      card for Lochte, who sadly comes across as a prisoner of a sport he can still do immeasurably better in than he can imagine doing anything else.