SANTA MONICA, Calif.  —   “Can you help me clear something up?” Gwyneth Paltrow made an exasperated face, gave her ponytail a censuring shake and continued. “I’m not leaving Goop,” she said, referring to her mushrooming       business. “I run this company. I’m here every day. It’s all I do. I have a   focus on what I’m trying to build. ” Ms. Paltrow had invited me to Goop’s stylish headquarters here to discuss an initiative: A clothing line called Goop Label  —   based on everyday items in her closet and “fashion archives,” including a trench coat she bought in the eighth grade  —   will arrive on Goop. com on Monday. But our chat, like Ms. Paltrow herself, moved in multiple directions at once, starting with a rash of recent articles that found her consciously uncoupling from the polarizing lifestyle brand, which she founded in 2008. The   arose when Ms. Paltrow spoke at a Chicago conference and said that Goop’s “scalability is limited if I connect to it. ” She added at the time, “My dream is that one day no one will remember that I had anything to do with it. ” Tabloids decided that meant a departure (“Goop riddance”) but what she had meant was this: To thrive over the long term, brands like Goop must stand on their own. Tightly trading on a single persona is the surest route to degeneration. (Just ask Martha Stewart.) But striking that balance is tricky, with Goop Label as the latest example. The new clothing line  —   initial prices start at $195 for a chambray   shirt and go up to $695 for a gray tweed belted blazer  —   is not particularly captivating because it comes from Goop, which already sells a wide variety of designer clothes. The effort is interesting because it comes from her. Ms. Paltrow, 43, tried to split the difference during our    playing down her role in the Goop Label design process. “It was a collective effort, and I am not positioning myself as a designer,” she said. But she also came alive when talking about the inspiration for certain items. “I have kept an archive of my most influential fashion pieces, things that came to mean something to me,” she said with a smile. “It encompasses a lot of different time periods, lovers, countries. ” The clothing line arrives during a transitional time for her quirky company, which some women love for its    mix and others find ludicrous for the same reason. In   Ms. Paltrow said she had raised $10 million from three venture capital firms, an amount she described as “enough runway to get us to profitability. ” Goop, which has about 60 employees (up from 15 two years ago) is also relocating its headquarters to California from New York. Lisa Gersh, who became Goop’s chief executive two years ago after a stint at Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, is stepping down as part of the move, although she will remain an adviser. At least for now, Ms. Gersh will not be replaced. “I definitely need help with operations and finance, but I haven’t really made a decision on it yet,” said Ms. Paltrow, whose title is chief creative officer. Being a (nearly)   businesswoman  —   she greatly scaled back her movie commitments a couple of years ago  —   has been energizing, Ms. Paltrow insisted, even though her move away from Hollywood has puzzled some fans. “I felt that I had achieved a lot in the acting world, and I really was ready for a totally different challenge,” she said. But she acknowledged some internal struggle. “It’s something, to be totally honest, that I’m still wrestling with, because acting was such a huge part of my identity, and I don’t know what it means if I fully stop,” she said. “What does that do to my perception of myself as an artist and as a woman?” While still unprofitable, Goop is growing quickly. Revenue tripled in the first six months of this year compared to the same period in 2015, according to a spokeswoman new lines of business include organic cosmetics called Goop by Juice Beauty. But the success of Goop Label is important if Ms. Paltrow wants to keep up with some of the   brands that have sprouted in Goop’s shadow. The Honest Company, founded four years ago in part by Jessica Alba and focused on   products, already has more than 500 employees and is worth an estimated $1. 7 billion. “I’ve always really taken my time with Goop,” Ms. Paltrow said. “You have to understand: I am on the steepest learning curve of my life. Every day that I’m here, I’m learning what I don’t know, which is tons. ” As for competition with women like Ms. Alba and Reese Witherspoon, who is pushing a Southern lifestyle brand called Draper James (“It’s tailgating time, y’all”) Ms. Paltrow smacked that ball back into my court. “In the past, the media has tried to pit us all against each other, and it’s so sexist and so absurd,” she said. Visiting Ms. Paltrow at Goop headquarters was simultaneously nothing like I envisioned and everything I envisioned. Going in, I worried that she would take one glance at my   Eastland shoes, the ones with cat hair stuck in the laces, and have me escorted from the building. Be gone with this tacky man! She would then shake her head and think these words, which I once read in a Goop newsletter: “There’s nothing more disheartening than the sight of love handles spilling over your pants or a pooched belly. ” She was, of course, nothing like that. She came out to greet me  —   Goop’s new offices are in   wooden buildings built as part of a brick factory  —   and told me she liked my name. (From now on, I’m on board with Apple.) As a squadron of millennial women pecked at laptops outside her office, we talked for bit at her desk (metal top, computer, stacks of books and folders) and were soon gabbing like girlfriends as she tried on that Goop Label blazer. “It’s chic, right?” she said. Goop Label will roll out slowly, with up to five new items made available each month. (The first installment has four: the jacket, the chambray shirt, a pair of culottes and an oversize cotton canvas tote with a leather bottom.) Once pieces sell out  —   only “dozens” of each are available  —   they will not be restocked. “I’m worried because I think we underordered by a lot,” Ms. Paltrow said, noting that she is using the same Italian factories as luxury brands like Azzedine Alaïa and Dries Van Noten. How did she choose the offerings? “I looked at the analytics  —   what sold the best, as in hundreds of units, on our site,” she said. “They were exclusive pieces that you couldn’t buy anywhere else, they were priced under $1, 000 and they were    . ” Working with a team of designers and consultants, she then looked through her closets to find “timeless, essential, luxurious basics” that she’s never been able to replace. And then she tweaked them. “I would look at something and think to myself, ‘I love the little puff sleeve, but I wish that the sleeves were   I wish it had a collar, I wish it had buttons,’ whatever,” she said. I nodded, but my brain was still stuck on the word “analytics. ” Here was an   actress, one of the world’s most glamorous women (she was wearing an Atlantique Ascoli ensemble when we met) and she was interested in   …     spreadsheets? “It’s definitely a weird move, and I understand why people are curious,” she said. “All I know is that I feel so incredibly on fire professionally here at Goop, in ways that I don’t think I ever felt when I was acting. ”