 (CNN) The latest on Trump and Syria, plus the details of a big hack NOT involving Russia. Here’s what you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door. 1. Trump transition, Before Trump takes office, he’s going to have to take a seat for a deposition. A DC Superior Court Judge ruled Trump must answer questions in an ongoing lawsuit between him and a celebrity chef. Trump sued Jose Andres for breach of contract after Andres pulled out of a restaurant deal at Trump’s new DC hotel because of disparaging comments Trump made during his campaign. 2. Tennessee fires  Two juveniles have been charged with arson in the recent Tennessee wildfires that killed 14 and ravaged the resort town of Gatlinburg. Everything is ”on the table” according to a prosecutor, including possible charges of 1st degree murder. If convicted, the youths could face life in prison.  3. Aleppo, After some false starts and broken promises, evacuations and an even newer ceasefire plan are finally underway in Aleppo. There are still snags: According to activists, an evacuation convoy came under fire from Syrian forces as it was trying to leave the falling city. A resident gave CNN a horrifying account of the scene in eastern Aleppo, saying it looked like a ”slaughterhouse.”  4. Yahoo, Yahoo announced Wednesday that a security breach may have compromised more than one BILLION accounts. No, it’s not deja vu. A similar thing happened in September, and Yahoo thinks this new breach is completely different than the previous one. What a mess. Here’s what to do if you think your account got hacked.  5. China, China has reportedly installed weapons on some islands in contested waters in the South China sea. This is worrisome to China’s neighbors and to the US. If you’ll recall,   Trump isn’t exactly cozy with China at the moment, and has made it clear he’s open to challenging our relationship with the country.  Breakfast Browse, People are talking about these. Read up. Join in. Hundreds of commercial airline pilots could be depressed, study says, NOT the thing to read before jetting off on that business trip.  Legendary    jewel thief at it again  And she honestly doesn’t care that she got caught.  Story about boy who died in Santa’s arms is in question, Could it have been too good (or sad) to be true?  Trump protester and supporter make up after clash at rally  What the world needs now is love, sweet love. .. Conjoined twins leave hospital for recovery  The baby boys were joined at the skull and have touched the world with their story of survival. And finally . .. This baby just wants to hear Biggie!  This is an oldie but a goodie. Who can resist a cranky baby with an ear for good rap? (Click to view)