SEOUL, South Korea  —   Samsung on Saturday urged consumers worldwide to stop using Galaxy Note 7 smartphones immediately and exchange them as soon as possible, as more reports of the phones catching fire emerged even after a global recall by the company. The call from the South Korean company, the world’s largest maker of smartphones, came after the United States authorities urged users to switch the Galaxy Note 7 off and not to use or charge it during flights. Several airlines around the world asked travelers not to switch on the smartphone or put it in checked baggage, and some carriers banned the phone on flights. In a statement posted on Saturday on its website, Samsung asked users around the world to “immediately” return their existing Galaxy Note 7 and get a replacement. “We are asking users to power down their Galaxy Note 7s and exchange them as soon as possible,” said Koh   the president of mobile communication for Samsung. “We are expediting replacement devices so that they can be provided through the exchange program as conveniently as possible. ” Consumers can visit Samsung’s service centers to receive rental phones for temporary use. Samsung plans to provide Galaxy Note 7 devices with new batteries in South Korea starting Sept. 19, but dates for other countries vary. This month, Samsung announced an unprecedented recall of 2. 5 million Galaxy Note 7s worldwide, just two weeks after the phone was released. That move came after Samsung’s investigation into reports of fires found that rechargeable lithium batteries manufactured by one of its suppliers were at fault. The United States was among the first countries to take action after the recall. Late on Friday, the Consumer Product Safety Commission urged people to turn the phones off and leave them off. It also said it was working with Samsung and hoped to  announce an official recall “as soon as possible. ” The recall by the safety commission will allow the United States Federal Aviation Administration to bar passengers from carrying the phones on planes. The F. A. A. warned airline passengers on Thursday not to turn on or charge the Galaxy Note 7 during flights and not to put the smartphone in their checked bags. Scandinavian Airlines said Saturday that it had prohibited passengers from using the Galaxy Note 7 on its flights because of concerns about fires. Singapore Airlines has also banned the use or charging of the device during flights. Samsung said it had confirmed 35 cases of the Galaxy Note 7 catching fire as of Sept. 1, most of which occurred while the battery was charging. There are at least two more cases that Samsung said it was aware of  —   one at a hotel in Perth, Australia, and another in St. Petersburg, Fla. where a family reported that a Galaxy Note 7 left charging in a Jeep had caught fire, destroying the vehicle. Samsung released the Galaxy Note 7 on Aug. 19. The Galaxy Note series is one of the most expensive lines made by Samsung.