More than three years after a Supreme Court decision gave federal recognition to   marriages performed in states that allowed them, the demographics of   married couples largely remain a mystery. In fact, no one has a definitive count of gay married couples in the United States. One reason it’s hard to get a fix on the marriages is that detailed marriage records are not tracked at the federal level. They’re managed by counties and states, which report the count of marriages and not much else. The Census Bureau isn’t always a lot of help either. Methodological problems like sample size and false positives have long plagued census estimates of this relatively small group. But a new research paper published by the Treasury Department on Monday has found an interesting way around these problems: tax records. By linking the tax returns of   couples who filed jointly in 2014 with their Social Security records, researchers are able to give us the most accurate picture of   marriages to date. And their estimate is this: In 2014 there were 183, 280   marriages in America, roughly a third of 1 percent of all marriages. Of course, implicit in this estimate is the assumption that all married couples file their returns jointly. But as a proxy for that, it’s pretty good. The Treasury Department estimates that 97. 5 percent of married couples who file taxes file them jointly. One highlight of the study: Pretax household income of   married couples is higher than that of heterosexual married couples. Most of that is driven by the average earnings of male   couples: $176, 000. On average, they make $52, 000 more than married lesbian couples and $63, 000 more than married straight couples. Lee Badgett, an economics professor at the University of   said one reason is the gender pay gap. The math here is simple  —   for heterosexual couples, the gender pay gap affects one partner. For   female couples, the gender pay gap affects both partners. But that doesn’t explain why   female married couples earn more than heterosexual married couples, over all. The other key component is geography. The tax data shows   married couples clustering along the coasts, and in urban pockets across the United States. These are regions that also tend to have higher wages. In fact, heterosexual couples actually earn more than   female ones when you compare married couples who live in the same   ZIP code region. Child care plays a huge role as well.   female couples are four times more likely to have children than   male couples. That means that many women will have to make tough   between career and family. Combine that with the likelihood of lower pay to begin with and you start to understand why the income differences are so large. There is one group whose incomes are far above the rest:   married men with children. Their income is roughly $275, 000, more than double the pretax income for heterosexual couples and   married female couples with children. This is a select group of people for whom the cost of children is particularly high. Using a surrogate can cost $250, 000, and adoptions can cost upward of $30, 000. The data also reveals another, more subtle geographical difference in male vs. female   married couples. The top 20 cities for male   married couples are more likely to include dense city centers like New York, Los Angeles and Chicago, while the top 20 cities for female   married couples tend to include smaller and   cities like Springfield, Mass. Madison, Wis. and Burlington, Vt. Women gravitated toward commitment more than men. Among the   marriages, 55 percent involved   women and 45 percent   men. Those in   marriages tend to be a little younger than those in straight marriages. The average age of   filers is 47, while the average age for those in straight couples is 51. The Treasury’s tally of   marriages is very different from that of the census  —   roughly half what the census estimates. It doesn’t rely on samples as the census does, but uses all the tax records in America. This difference is particularly important when it comes to counting gay and lesbian populations. For detailed records of American life, the Census Bureau usually employs surveys of a small but statistically representative sample of Americans. Normally that is sufficient for most kinds of estimates such as average family sizes, car ownership or other measures. The problem with estimating gay and lesbian populations is that they represent such a small fraction of the total population any mistakes in how people answered their census forms are likely to push the number of gay couples and, in particular, gay married couples wildly out of focus. And in fact, this is what happened in the 2000 census and again in 2010. One of the more interesting problems was that many straight couples were being classified as gay because of incorrectly checked boxes on a census form. This resulted, according to some estimates, in as much as a 25 percent overcount of gay couples. How did the Census Bureau try to control for this error? Simple. By taking names. It turns out that, even today, most first names are strongly associated with one gender. Using a database of gender probabilities for each given name, the bureau was able go back and correct the misreporting. But Gary Gates, former research director at the Williams Institute, notes it’s likely that some errors persist. The Census Bureau has been pretty upfront about its problems and even produced a delightfully nerdy video about its mistakes. Which is why the Treasury’s use of administrative data is so important. The joint tax returns were matched with the Social Security Administration’s data, so there’s less chance that gender is misreported. To be fair, tax records can give an incomplete picture, but the problem is more political than methodological. After the Windsor case was decided by the Supreme Court in 2013,   marriage was still not recognized in every state. So gay couples who crossed state borders to marry, but lived in states that did not recognize gay marriage, were not allowed to file jointly on their state tax returns. Instead of trying to file a joint return for federal taxes and separate returns for state taxes, many couples opted to file separately on both their state and federal return. This changed after Obergefell v. Hodges, the 2015 Supreme Court decision that recognized gay marriage in all states. But the Treasury’s data ends in 2014. So the Treasury data is most likely undercounting   marriages in more than a dozen states that did not recognize such marriages before the Obergefell decision. Maybe the best way to think about these Treasury numbers is as a floor, lower than the hypothetically perfect count of gay marriage but the closest we’ve ever come to one. And if the Treasury researchers produce similar reports for 2015 and 2016, we will be even closer.