Seldom does a new credit card go viral. There are the unboxing videos posted on YouTube: People exulting in receiving the precious new metallic rectangle, lovingly unwrapping it, boasting to the world of their ownership of it. (One video features a cat ripping the package open.) There are message boards and blogs dedicated to obsessing over it, with more than 6, 000 comments so far on a Reddit discussion. It is so popular that JPMorgan Chase, the bank that issues the card, ran out of the engraved card’s fancy metal stock in only 10 days, and had to send a temporary plastic placeholder to disappointed customers. But the Chase Sapphire Reserve card has done more than generate product hysteria at its finest. It has also intensified the arms race among large credit card issuers, which are introducing increasingly lavish rewards programs to capture affluent consumers who spend large sums on travel and recreation, but no longer want to be bound to one particular hotel or airline’s affinity program. The price for these premium cards can seem outlandish: $450 a year. But for a growing number of customers, the math makes sense. Cards that were once more about elite service and social status are now emphasizing their   value proposition  —   even when it comes with a hefty annual fee. “American Express used to have a stranglehold on the   market, but folks like Chase and Citi are coming hard after their crown,” said Matt Schulz, an analyst for CreditCards. com, a comparison site. “It’s the best time in years to shop for a rewards card. ” American Express’s Platinum charge card pioneered the premium category, and was for a long time its undisputed champion. But in 2014, Citi overhauled its   Prestige credit card to take on the Platinum card with similar perks  —   free hotel stays, access to airport lounges and private golf courses, transferable points redeemable for airfares and upgrades  —   as well as spending incentives to let customers cash in faster. It quickly became a favorite among   road warriors. Chase started making plans early last year for its own entry into the market. Those who call themselves travel hackers, a community of   who go to elaborate lengths to maximize their reward points, obsessively analyze the nuances of the latest deals the way sports fans scrutinize their team’s draft picks. In late July, rumors began spreading on FlyerTalk, a popular message board, that Chase had a new card in the works, with a     bonus  —   twice the standard offer from its rivals. When an online link accidentally went live in   a week earlier than Chase planned, people pounced: Hundreds of applications poured in for a card Chase had not yet announced. “It significantly exceeded our expectations,” Amy Bonitatibus, a spokeswoman for Chase, said of the “tens of thousands” of cards the bank has issued so far. It has been a particular hit with millennials, who make up the majority of the cardholders  —   a noteworthy detail, given that many millennials have been turning   on credit cards. The card’s rich   bonus caught the eye of Amber Cooney, 29, who works for a nonprofit lender in Austin and is saving for a honeymoon next year in Italy and Croatia. She considers herself a casual credit card user, but she started paying attention to points and rewards a few years ago when she realized that her spending patterns could net her free vacations if she planned carefully. “Rewards cards made travel a reality for me,” she said. “I went from seeing Niagara Falls and calling that my international travel to visiting four different countries. ” Her points have paid for airfare to Argentina and hotels in Paris she plans to use her Chase card on a trip to Japan this year. Ben Schlappig, 26, a travel blogger who lives the life of an   nomad  —   he has no fixed address, preferring to live in hotel rooms  —   plans to shift most of his spending to his Chase Sapphire Reserve. The card offers triple points on dining and travel spending, the two categories that consume nearly all of Mr. Schlappig’s budget. Chase defines “travel” fairly flexibly, and includes services like Airbnb and Uber. Sapphire Reserve customers have spent $1. 5 million already with those two companies, earning 4. 5 million points, Ms. Bonitatibus said. “It’s an incredible deal,” said Mr. Schlappig, who writes the blog One Mile at a Time. “The card is almost too good to be true. I think a lot of people are scared that some of the perks will be cut. ” Ms. Bonitatibus insists that Chase has no current plans to make changes, but the general trend with loyalty and points program is that card issuers are quick to ditch benefits that dig too deeply into their profits. Citi Prestige customers grumbled this year when the card dropped its free access to American Airlines’ Admirals Club lounges, a perk that had disappeared two years earlier from American Express’s Platinum card. With credit card companies adjusting the perk programs so often, the value of each issuers’ reward miles and points changes frequently, prompting some people to  . One travel blogger, The Points Guy, posts monthly calculations, down to the micropenny, of what he considers each card’s benefits to be worth. Perhaps as a sign of the strengthened economy, the major issuers say that demand for their premium cards is rising. The number of Citi Prestige cardholders increased sixfold in the last 18 months, according to a company spokeswoman, and American Express says that its Platinum card membership is “large, growing and loyal. ” Customers seem increasingly willing to consider shifting from free cards to ones with fees and better perks. Americans received 1. 2 billion   credit card solicitations in the second quarter of this year, according to research by Mintel Comperemedia. A record proportion of them, 19 percent, were for   rewards cards, up from 14 percent a year ago. “Around the recession, we saw promotional innovation in the   space,” said Andrew Davidson, a senior vice president of Mintel. “Now, I think we might start seeing more innovation around points and miles in the premium space. What this launch has done is shake things up a bit: American Express and Citi will be forced to   their cards’ value proposition. ” The premium cards’ gains may come at the expense of the more traditional airline, retail and hotel cards issued by banks. Around 43 percent of adult Americans had at least one affinity credit card last year, a sharp decrease from the 55 percent who carried one in 2009, according to research from Packaged Facts, which regularly surveys the market. “If you look at the behavior of millennials, it’s clear they’re not going to commit to a relationship with one credit card, or brand, the way their parents did,” said David Robertson, the publisher of The Nilson Report, which follows the credit card industry. He is even casting a critical eye on his own   card, an American Airlines card from Citi that carries a $450 annual fee. “I look at it now, and it’s just a question of, do I want to spend the time to think about the value proposition on an alternative?” Mr. Robertson said. “There’s much to be said about inertia. ”