 (CNN) Here is some background information about the JonBenét Ramsey murder investigation. The    beauty pageant queen was found murdered in her Boulder, Colorado, home on December 26, 1996. No one has ever been charged in the case, and the investigation is still open. Early suspicion fell on her parents, but they were exonerated after DNA at the scene was found to belong to a male unrelated to the Ramsey family. Personal:Birth date: August 6, 1990, Birth place: Atlanta, Georgia, Birth name: JonBenét Ramsey, Parents: John and Patricia ”Patsy” Ramsey, Siblings: Burke Ramsey John Andrew Ramsey, ( ) Melinda Ramsey Long, ( ) Elizabeth Ramsey, ( ) died in 1992 at age 22, Other Facts:JonBenét was named after her father, John Bennett Ramsey, and her name is pronounced in a French style. (zhawn  ) She won the following beauty pageants   Little Miss Colorado, Little Miss Charlevoix, Colorado State   Kids Cover Girl, America’s Royale Miss, and National Tiny Miss Beauty. She is buried in Marietta, Georgia, beside her mother, who died from ovarian cancer in 2006, and her   Elizabeth Ramsey, who died in a car crash in 1992.     Timeline:December 26, 1996   JonBenét Ramsey is murdered in her Boulder, Colorado, home.    Her mother, Patsy, states that she found a ransom note demanding $118, 000 for JonBenet’s return.    JonBenet’s body is found in her basement that same day.   January 4, 1997   Reports reveal that JonBenet’s skull had been fractured, and the ransom note came from a notepad from the Ramseys’ home. December 1997   A year after the murder, Boulder police indicate John and Patsy Ramsey remain under ”an umbrella of suspicion,” and will be questioned again. October 13, 1999   District Attorney Alex Hunter states that no indictments will be issued due to a lack of evidence in the case.  April 2003   Judge Julie Carnes in Atlanta dismisses a federal civil suit against John and Patsy Ramsey after concluding that evidence supports the theory of an intruder murdering JonBenét and not that her mother, Patsy, was involved. December 2003   DNA found at the scene is submitted to the FBI database. Earlier blood tests showed the sample was from a male who was unrelated to the Ramseys. June 24, 2006   Patsy Ramsey, age 49, dies of ovarian cancer.   August 16, 2006   Officials announce that    John Mark Karr has been arrested in Bangkok, Thailand, as a suspect in the case. Karr states that he was present when JonBenét died, and that he loved her and her death was an accident.    Karr is an elementary school teacher, divorced, father of three sons and has recently been living in Bangkok, Thailand. August 28, 2006   The Boulder County District Attorney decides not to charge Karr in connection with the JonBenét Ramsey murder, after DNA tests confirm that he isn’t a match to the evidence found at the crime scene.  July 9, 2008   Boulder County District Attorney Mary Lacy says no one in the Ramsey family is considered a suspect and formally apologizes in a letter to John Ramsey for the cloud of suspicion his family has lived under for nearly 12 years. February 2009   The Boulder Police Department resumes its status as the lead agency investigating the case. October 2, 2010   Police investigators conduct new rounds of interviews. January 27, 2013   The Boulder Daily Camera reports that in 1999 the grand jury voted to indict John and Patsy Ramsey on charges of child abuse resulting in death, but Boulder District Attorney Alex Hunter decided there was not enough evidence to file charges and did not sign the indictment. October 6, 2016   Burke Ramsey files a $150 million defamation lawsuit against forensic pathologist Dr. Werner Spitz. The lawsuit stems from the airing of a   CBS docuseries about the murder of JonBenét, in which Spitz theorized that Burke Ramsey killed his sister. November 30, 2016   Dr. Werner Spitz files a motion for summary judgment in the case filed against him by Burke Ramsey. He argues he was expressing his ”point of view,” which is allowed under the First Amendment. 