In presidential politics, everyone is on the lookout for them and an army of analysts is eager to declare them: turning points. It’s the moment when a single image or phrase or blunder could change the trajectory of the campaign. But when is a turning point really a turning point? Where  —   if at all  —   does Hillary Clinton’s “basket of deplorables” remark or her health scare at the Sept. 11 memorial land on that scale? What about Donald J. Trump’s widely denounced comments about Mexicans and Muslims? In the latest episode of The   my colleagues on the campaign team answer those questions by talking about the turning points they’ve experienced in this race  —   not always the big,   kind, but frequently the smaller, subtler,   ones that nevertheless signaled a shift in the political terrain. Our guests are Patrick Healy, a national political reporter Amy Chozick, who covers the Clinton campaign Ashley Parker, who reports on Donald J. Trump Maggie Haberman, who has written about both candidates Robert Draper, a writer at large for The New York Times Magazine and Jim Rutenberg, the media columnist at The Times. And we look back at what many regard as the biggest turning point of the last presidential campaign, in 2012, to explore whether it was as consequential as everyone thought at the time. From a desktop or laptop, you can listen by pressing play on the button above. Or if you’re on a mobile device, the instructions below will help you find and subscribe to the series. On your iPhone or iPad: 1. Open your podcast app. It’s a   app called “Podcasts” with a purple icon. (This link might help.) 2. Search for the series. Tap on the “search” magnifying glass icon at the bottom of the screen, type in “The  ” and select it from the list of results. 3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, tap on the “subscribe” button to have new episodes sent to your phone for free. You may want to adjust your notifications to be alerted when a new episode arrives. 4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before deciding to subscribe, tap on the episode title from the list on the series page. If you have an internet connection, you’ll be able to stream the episode. On your Android phone or tablet: 1. Open your podcast app. It’s a   app called “Play Music” with an    icon. (This link might help.) 2. Search for the series. Click on the magnifying glass icon at the top of the screen, search for the name of the series and select it from the list of results. You may have to scroll down to find the “Podcasts” search results. 3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, click on the word “subscribe” to have new episodes sent to your phone for free. 4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before deciding to subscribe, click on the episode title from the list on the series page. If you have an internet connection, you’ll be able to stream the episode.