Good morning. Welcome to California Today, a morning update on the stories that matter to Californians (and anyone else interested in the state). Tell us about the issues that matter to you  —   and what you’d like to see: CAtoday@nytimes. com. Want to receive California Today by email? Sign up. The plastic bag wars, after years in the trenches, are now coming to a head. Voters will get the final word in November on making California the first state to prohibit the bags at grocery checkout lines. Two ballot measures, both industry sponsored, deal with a state law passed in 2014 that barred grocers and other retailers from handing out   plastic bags and required them to charge 10 cents for a paper alternative. But the law was delayed before it could be enacted in 2015, when a group of bag manufacturers gathered signatures to put Proposition 67, an    referendum, on the ballot. “Yes” keeps the ban. “No” kills it. Ban supporters say the billions of plastic bags used by Californians are a menace, clogging sewers and polluting habitats. They are the fourth most common item collected during the California Coastal Commission’s annual cleanup events. Still, opponents of the ban argue that plastic bags account for less than 1 percent of the total trash stream and can be recycled, even if, in practice, only a fraction are. Among their other arguments: the paper bag fee hurts the poor, and jobs would be killed by a sudden evaporation of bag sales. “Not only is it affecting jobs, it’s over junk science,” said Phil Rozenski, policy chairman for the American Progressive Bag Alliance. Then there’s Proposition 65, which would divert revenue from the   bag fees to an environmental fund. You might think many green groups would like that. They don’t. Critics say it is a maneuver intended to discredit the statewide ban by portraying the fees as a windfall for supermarkets. According to the California Grocers Association, which supports the ban, the fee just covers costs. The outcome in November will depend in part on shifting public attitudes. At least 150 California communities have taken steps to limit plastic bags since 2007, when San Francisco kicked things off. Many shoppers, who may have bristled at first, have grown used to the idea of reusable bags, advocates say. “People are realizing we never needed so many bags in the first place,” said Mark Murray, the executive director of Californians Against Waste. See more reporting in The Times on the November ballot: Proposition 51 (school bond) | Propositions 62 and 66 (death penalty). To dig deeper, check out analyses of the measures by the Legislative Analyst’s Office, CALmatters or Ballotpedia. • In San Francisco, the sinking Millennium Tower has raised doubts about whether a   spree was properly monitored, writes the city’s bureau chief Thomas Fuller. [The New York Times] • U. C. campuses are scrambling to make room for the largest influx of new students in decades. [Los Angeles Times] • A food critic chose the 30 most important Bay Area restaurants of the last 30 years. [San Francisco Chronicle] • Facing a wave of Haitian migrants at the San Diego border, the Obama administration said it would accelerate deportations. [The New York Times] • A report shows how Proposition 13 has shaped life in California, helping to enrich one generation and impoverish the next. [Slate] •   Yahoo said account information of at least 500 million users was stolen by hackers two years ago. [The New York Times] • A man who hit Mayor Kevin Johnson of Sacramento with a pie said he wanted to embarrass the leader. [Sacramento Bee] • Half of Palm Springs sits on rented tribal land, the largest such arrangement in the country. [The Desert Sun] • A report described a “toxic” working environment at Yosemite National Park. Eighteen workers charged harassment and other misconduct. [Washington Post] • A mother’s Alzheimer’s has redefined baseball glory for her   son. [The New York Times] • Wallethub, a personal finance site, ranked the best places to raise a family in California. The winner? Folsom. [Wallethub] • Meet the “Sneaker Saint”: A charity has given away nearly 7, 000 to the homeless and   youth in Los Angeles. [ ] San Francisco is putting a lot of hope in Jeff Kositsky. This year, the mayor appointed Mr. Kositsky, 50, to lead a new homelessness department to help the nearly 7, 000 people living on the city’s streets. On Thursday, he made an appearance on Reddit, the   social news site, where he invited site members to ask him anything. Some of the highlights: On the cause of the city’s homelessness problem: On how much money he needs to achieve his goals: On what the technology industry is doing to help: On what he would give if he could give every homeless person in San Francisco one item (other than a house): See more of the conversation over at Reddit. California Today goes live at 6 a. m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes. com. The California Today columnist, Mike McPhate, is a   Californian  —   born outside Sacramento and raised in San Juan Capistrano. He lives in Davis. Follow him on Twitter. California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and attended U. C. Berkeley.