I know, the number of big books out each fall is intimidating  —   even this month, when publishers put off a lot of big fiction until after the election. This week we’ve got the best books related to the election itself (there aren’t many, to be honest). And then we’ve got some smart and entertaining counterprogramming. The books I’m most interested in this week are all very personal stories. First up is Ann Patchett’s new novel, “Commonwealth,” which she calls her most autobiographical to date. If that means it’s anywhere near as good as her   collection, “This Is the Story of a Happy Marriage,” I’ll be happy. Also on my    pile, two very different memoirs: John le Carré’s account of his path from spy to novelist, and Lauren Collins’s book about falling in love with someone when you don’t speak his or her language. With luck, you’ll find some personal bookmarks on this list as well. Pamela PaulEditor of The New York Times Book Review MAN OF THE WORLD: The Further Endeavors of Bill Clinton, by Joe Conason. (Simon  Schuster, $30.) Bill Clinton has had an unusually productive   career. This deeply researched narrative about the nearly 16 years since he left office tells that story so far, shedding light on his strengths and weaknesses. COMMONWEALTH, by Ann Patchett. (  $27. 99.) I think many Ann Patchett fans feel like one of the few and special  —   but there are a lot of us. In both her essays and her fiction (and in her Parnassus bookstore) Patchett just seems to invite readers in. Her latest novel is an engaging family portrait, tracing the lives of six stepsiblings over half a century. THE PIGEON TUNNEL: Stories From My Life, by John le Carré. (Viking, $28.) Who can resist a memoir by the greatest living spy novelist of our time? Many of the clues to his life are revealed here. In this charming memoir, le Carré writes about how his father, a con man, prepared the future author to become first a spy, then a novelist. THE SIX: The Lives of the Mitford Sisters, by Laura Thompson. (St. Martin’s, $29. 99.) The six Mitford sisters still manage to fascinate. This engrossing group biography presents them all, and shows how their enthusiasms, political and literary, encapsulated    Britain. WHEN IN FRENCH: Love in a Second Language, by Lauren Collins. (Penguin Press, $27.) Readers of The New Yorker know Lauren Collins’s byline from her   stories from Europe. For her first book, Collins, now married to a Frenchman, writes a very personal memoir about love and language, shrewdly assessing how language affects our lives. INDELIBLE INK: The Trials of John Peter Zenger and the Birth of America’s Free Press, by Richard Kluger. (Norton, $27. 95.) What can a colonial libel case tell us about free speech in America? Vivid storytelling enlivens Kluger’s history, which offers some   perspective on the press freedom we enjoy today. THE YEAR OF VOTING DANGEROUSLY, by Maureen Dowd. (Twelve, $30.) The Times columnist deliciously captures the theater of this bizarre presidential election and dissects its key players, Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump, two figures she knows well after decades of reporting on, interviewing and writing about them. MISCHLING, by Affinity Konar. (Lee   Brown, $27.) The story of Dr. Josef Mengele’s experiments on children, particularly on twins, was the basis of Lucette Lagnado’s nonfiction investigative history, “Children of the Flames. ” Here Affinity Konar uses that unsettling and grievous history to riveting effect in her debut novel. THE FORTUNES, by Peter Ho Davies. (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, $27.) What does it mean to be a  ? Peter Ho Davies attempts to answer that question in his latest novel, a meditation on 150 years of the   experience.