Twitter has long positioned itself as a global town square where anyone  —   celebrities, politicians, athletes, and you and me  —   can chat in   messages and find out about whatever is happening in the moment. But with that premise not drawing enough new people to the social media service, Twitter is now rethinking whether it can survive as an independent company and is exploring several strategic options. Twitter, based in San Francisco, is talking with Salesforce. com, Google and others about a possible takeover of the company, people briefed on the discussions said on Friday. The talks are in the early stages, these people said, with no guarantee that a deal will be reached. In particular, Jack Dorsey, Twitter’s chief executive, is resistant to selling to some of the potential acquirers, they said. Twitter is also weighing a possible revamping that could involve divestitures and layoffs, the people said. Two divisions that Twitter is considering divesting itself of are Vine, the mobile   video service, and MoPub, a mobile advertising business, they said. The company is working with the investment banks Goldman Sachs and Allen  Company on its options. A Twitter representative declined to comment, as did a representative from Google. A Salesforce spokeswoman said the company does “not comment on rumors and speculation. ” On Friday, shares of Twitter surged more than 21 percent after CNBC reported that the company had received takeover interest, though the stock still ended the day below the price at which it went public  —   $26 a share  —   in November 2013. For two years, Twitter has been casting about for ways to attract new users and to become a social media destination on the order of Facebook. While people initially flocked to Twitter, its   growth has slowed sharply as people complained about how difficult it was to use the service. At the same time, Facebook and its suite of offerings like Instagram, WhatsApp and Messenger continued to outpace Twitter in user growth and profitability, while    Snapchat has become the newest darling of the social media world. Lack of growth also began to erode advertiser demand, which had remained robust even as Twitter’s overall number of users stagnated at around 313 million people. Advertisers aiming for big audiences tended to choose Facebook, while those looking for younger audiences have the option of Snapchat. Twitter has endured internal turmoil and a revolving door of executives and board members. Mr. Dorsey, a   who became permanent chief executive of Twitter almost a year ago, has vowed to turn it around by making it easier to use and by emphasizing   elements that could make it more essential to people. “Twitter is live: live commentary, live conversations, live connections,” Mr. Dorsey has said. To make good on those comments, Twitter has a signed a series of partnerships to stream live events, including National Football League games on Thursday nights and the coming presidential debates. This month, Twitter unveiled a free app for Apple TV, Amazon Fire TV and Microsoft’s Xbox One so that the live events can be streamed to a much larger audience. The company is also emphasizing selling more premium video ads. But after several false starts, critics are skeptical that these efforts will work. Mark Mahaney, an analyst with RBC Capital Markets, said Twitter’s revenue might fall to less than 10 percent growth this year and added that if no acquirer emerged soon, the stock would plummet further. He recommended this week that shareholders sell their Twitter stock based on an anemic advertising forecast for the company. On Friday, how interested Google or Salesforce might be in buying Twitter, along with the identities of other possible bidders, became something of a parlor guessing game in Silicon Valley. Google’s name has surfaced in the past as a logical buyer because of the internet search company’s size and digital portfolio. Media companies have also been considered possible suitors. Why Salesforce might be interested in Twitter was a   to some people. Salesforce is an enterprise technology company that focuses on businesses and not individuals, as Twitter does. But Salesforce has publicly expressed interest in owning a social network, which the company believes can bolster its main business of selling software and services to business clients. Many companies use Twitter to handle customer service requests and complaints, for example. Salesforce’s chief executive, Marc Benioff, conceded this summer that his company had bid aggressively for the   social networking site LinkedIn, which instead sold to Microsoft for $26. 2 billion in June. Salesforce’s chief digital evangelist, Vala Afshar, on Friday posted on Twitter some of the attractions that a deal might have for his employer. Among them: Twitter’s “personal learning network,” “the best     news,” “democratize intelligence” and “great place to promote others. ” Mr. Afshar later said the thoughts were just his opinion. Compared with its social media and internet peers, Twitter is more susceptible to a takeover because it has only one class of stock. Companies like Facebook and Google’s parent, Alphabet, have multiple classes of shares, which gives their founders tight control over their companies and guarantee independence. Twitter has $3. 6 billion in cash on hand and $1. 6 billion of debt, according to Standard  Poor’s Global Market Intelligence. Microsoft paid a premium of nearly 50 percent for LinkedIn, although any sale of Twitter is unlikely to bring such a rich price.