Les Miles, Louisiana State’s always eccentric, sometimes frustrating and never boring football coach, was fired four games into his 12th season, the university announced Sunday. Miles, 62, was as much a mascot of L. S. U. football as Mike the Tiger. His most famous quirk was tearing up a handful of grass from Tiger Stadium’s turf and eating it. But he was also wildly successful, with an overall record of   five   finishes, two national championship game appearances and, after the 2007 season, one national title. But Miles’s teams, which were always made up of many of the country’s best players according to national recruiting rankings, were seen as disappointments, particularly over the past two seasons, when the Tigers finished   and  . And one of the country’s most fanatical fan bases grew antsy as Alabama and Auburn, two division rivals, won a combined five national titles since L. S. U. last won one. The final straw apparently came Saturday at Auburn. L. S. U. which entered the game   and ranked 18th, trailed by   as the final seconds ticked away, and appeared to score a thrilling   touchdown on the game’s final play. But an official review revealed that the ball had been snapped after the clock expired, negating the score, handing Auburn the victory and dropping L. S. U. to  . L. S. U. said in a statement that Miles and the offensive coordinator Cam Cameron had been fired, and that the defensive line coach Ed Orgeron had been offered the job of interim coach. The news was first reported by The Advocate of Baton Rouge. Miles’s buyout, for a contract that had been set to pay him at least $4. 3 million per year through 2019, could be as high as $12. 9 million, USA Today reported last year. In virtually any context, even a relative down period like the one that L. S. U. is undergoing, would be seen as tolerable. Miles’s teams have won nine games or more in nine seasons despite playing in college football’s most competitive division, the Southeastern Conference West (all of whose seven head coaches make at least $4 million a year) at a time when that division was dominated by Alabama’s unparalleled dynasty. But L. S. U. is not virtually any context. As the only   team in one of the country’s most   states, the Tigers are primed for excellence. And the Tigers’ fan base, known for delicious tailgates followed by intense   cheers, demands it. Miles has been skating on thin ice for a while. After the 2014 season, L. S. U. was unranked. Last year, an undefeated start for the team and a   Heisman Trophy campaign for running back Leonard Fournette both skidded to a halt in a November loss to Alabama that began a   losing streak. Before last year’s   finale, at home against Texas AM, Miles essentially said goodbye at a gathering of L. S. U. boosters, according to reports. But Miles kept his job a little longer by winning that game against AM, and then winning the Texas Bowl, and claiming several victories on the recruiting trail, where L. S. U. netted the    recruiting class in the country. Alabama and its head coach, Nick Saban, have set an unmatchable standard for Miles, with four national titles in the past seven seasons (and a current No. 1 ranking). It was Saban who led L. S. U. to its first national title in decades, after the 2003 season, and who recruited several of the stars of the 2007 team that won it for Miles. Dating from the national title game after the 2011 season, in which the Crimson Tide shut out the Tigers,   at the Sugar Bowl in New Orleans, Saban has won the last five meetings with Miles. Miles’s firing  —   the high cost it will require, the intolerance for what seems like sustained success it evinces  —   is further evidence that at its highest level college football is indistinguishable from the N. F. L. in its eagerness to try out new coaches in the quest for ultimate success. The expansion of college football’s playoffs, the continued rise in   deals and the existence of entire cable networks devoted to single leagues  —   such as the   SEC Network, which began two years ago  —   has upped the ante for athletic directors, giving them more money to play with but also raising expectations for a return on investment. To that end, the Tigers will probably hunt for a   expensive coach. Leading candidates are likely to include Tom Herman, who has Houston ranked sixth over all in his second season, and Jimbo Fisher, Florida State’s coach.