In the N. F. L. these days, young quarterbacks are all the rage. There once was a time when a team would have to wait two or three years for a young quarterback to develop, but not anymore. The Eagles, with   old Carson Wentz at quarterback, are  . The Broncos, behind   old Trevor Siemian, are also  . And the Cowboys, riding     old Dak Prescott, are  . Here’s what we learned in Week 3: ■ Carolina’s   loss was no blip. The Panthers lost once again on Sunday, this time to the Vikings, thanks largely to Cam Newton’s three interceptions. Carolina didn’t lose its second game last season until the Super Bowl. ■ Defense is exciting. Big defensive efforts like the ones by the Eagles, Broncos, Chiefs, and Bills can be just as thrilling as   shootouts. The Lions, having let Aaron Rodgers destroy them with four   touchdown passes, may want to look into this “defense” thing. ■ After watching the Browns’ Terrelle Pryor play quarterback, wide receiver, and safety in the same game, it becomes clear: For Cleveland to start winning they simply need to clone the former Ohio State star 52 times. Finding a kicker who can hit a     field goal would help as well. ■ After a big win, like the one the Bills had over the Cardinals, there is still no better coach at a news conference than Rex Ryan, who opened up about how he feels going into next week’s matchup with New England, saying “I can sit back and say I don’t care who plays quarterback, because Brady ain’t. I don’t care who plays quarterback. Steve Grogan can play quarterback. If Belichick’s playing quarterback, we’re coming after him, I promise you that. ” There is typically a steep learning curve to playing quarterback in the N. F. L. Cam Newton and Andrew Luck each threw four interceptions over the course of their first three career starts. Peyton Manning threw eight. Things have come a lot easier to Carson Wentz of the Philadelphia Eagles, who in a   start to his career has piled up 769 yards and 5 touchdowns, but has yet to throw an interception. Already getting a lot of buzz for opening the season with convincing wins over Cleveland and Chicago, Wentz took things into a higher gear in helping the Eagles beat the Pittsburgh Steelers,  . In a dominant win over Pittsburgh, Wentz surgically took apart the Steelers’ defense, rarely attempting downfield passes and choosing instead to work underneath the coverage to great effect. He completed 23 of 31 passes for 301 yards and 2 touchdowns, including a beautiful short pass to Darren Sproles that the tiny running back broke for a   score. In what will surely be one of the biggest upsets of the week, the Buffalo Bills thoroughly crushed the visiting Arizona Cardinals,  . Coming into the game, the   Bills were reeling, and added some drama after the firing of Greg Roman, the team’s offensive coordinator. The distractions did not seem to bother the players, as Buffalo let the team’s defense and running game carry it to an easy victory. Buffalo’s defense, which had endured quite a bit of criticism after a   loss to the Jets last week, showed up to play, intercepting Carson Palmer four times and returning a fumble for a touchdown. The turnovers were critical in a game in which the Cardinals dominated    and outgained the Bills in terms of yardage, but could not hold onto the ball long enough to score. Once the Bills offense was on the field it was all about grinding out yards on the ground with LeSean McCoy (110 yards, 2 touchdowns) and Tyrod Taylor (79 yards, 1 touchdown) leading the way in a   effort. Cowboys 31, Bears 17: Rookie Ezekiel Elliott, the fourth pick in the draft, had 140 yards on 30 carries, and quarterback Dak Prescott, who was picked 131 spots later, threw his first N. F. L. touchdown pass in an easy victory over Chicago. Broncos 29, Bengals 17: Trevor Siemian, the man given the nearly impossible task of replacing Peyton Manning at the helm of the defending Super Bowl champion Denver Broncos, was not intimidated by a   Cincinnati Bengals defense, throwing two   touchdown passes  —   he had four for the game  —   as the Broncos beat the Bengals,  . Here’s how the Broncos won. Vikings Shut Down Cam Newton and Panthers: The three interceptions by Cam Newton were not the most surprising thing in the Carolina Panthers’   loss at home to the Minnesota Vikings, nor were the 22 points that the Vikings managed despite playing without Teddy Bridgewater, Adrian Peterson or Matt Kalil. Instead, the most shocking entry on the box score was the shutout Minnesota’s defense pitched against Panthers wide receiver Kelvin Benjamin. Benjamin, who missed last season due to injury, started the season well with 13 catches for 199 yards and 3 touchdowns in the first two games, with Newton regularly praising how much easier everything was with him around. That changed this week, as Benjamin was targeted just once by Newton and finished the day with zero catches. It was the first time in his career that he failed to get a catch, and the Vikings did not stop there, also holding Devin Funchess without a single reception. Captain Munnerlyn, a defensive back for the Vikings, told reporters after the game that the shutout was by design. “We just knew where Benjamin was the whole time,” he said. “Funchess, we weren’t worried about him. It was Kelvin Benjamin. ” Munnerlyn went as far as to say the team was not worried about Funchess, saying he’s “not that good”. The loss ended a   home winning streak by the Panthers. Rams 37, Buccaneers 32: Turns out the offensively challenged Los Angeles Rams are capable of getting the ball in the end zone. Case Keenum threw for the team’s first touchdown since relocating back to Los Angeles, and Todd Gurley rushed for two more scores Sunday in a victory over the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. The Rams ( ) who did not have TD in the first two games of the season, also scored on Ethan Westbrooks’   fumble return and Tavon Austin’s   reception in the fourth quarter before thunder and lightning caused a   weather delay with two minutes remaining. Colts 26, Chargers 22: There is still plenty to be worried about in Indianapolis, with Andrew Luck continuing to struggle with turnovers and inconsistency for the Colts, but the team finally got its first win of the season. A      by T. Y. Hilton in the final two minutes of the fourth quarter completed the Colts’ comeback, and the team’s defense forced a fumble to seal the victory. With the win by Indianapolis, the only winless teams left are Cleveland, Jacksonville, Chicago and New Orleans, but the Bears and Saints have yet to play this week. Redskins 29, Giants 27: It was never going to be easy. The Giants’ defense knew it. They knew it when the linebacker Keegan Robinson stood during a meeting Friday morning to remind his teammates that the winless Washington Redskins were especially dangerous. “It’s like a trap game,” Robinson told them. “This team is desperate. ” But with an opportunity to bury their rivals deeper in the N. F. C. East division, at home on a crisp and sunny afternoon, the Giants’ defense did not heed its own warnings, falling,   at MetLife Stadium. Here’s how the Redskins won. Chiefs 24, Jets 3: The play that encapsulated the Chiefs’ demolition of the Jets on Sunday was not the first turnover they forced. Or the second. Or the third. Or the fourth. Or the fifth. Or the sixth. Or the seventh. Or even the eighth. Rather, it was a long   gain by the Kansas City’s superlative tight end, Travis Kelce, who caught a pass over the middle, sprinted across the field and at the end of his run administered a blow to Jets safety Marcus Gilchrist that was less stiff arm than ultimate fighting move. Instead of purely shoving Gilchrist, Kelce appeared to lift him with his right hand, pushing him back five yards. The Chiefs bullied the Jets throughout the game, taking advantage of a team that was too slow, too clumsy and too challenged by the task of making sensible decisions  —   or holding onto the ball  —   to bother trying to assert itself as a contender in the A. F. C. Dolphins 30, Browns 24: Signed by the Cleveland Browns on Saturday, Cody Parkey came out to kick what would have been a     field goal in the closing seconds of a   game against the Miami Dolphins. On a tough day in which he had already missed two other field goal attempts, Parkey’s kick sailed   and forced overtime. For the Browns, who lost Robert Griffin III to injury in Week 1, and choked away a   first quarter lead against Baltimore in Week 2, overtime had to feel like a foregone conclusion. And on Miami’s second possession of overtime, Jay Ajayi confirmed those fears, breaking free for an   touchdown run that gave the Dolphins a   victory and dropped Cleveland’s record to  . Ravens 19, Jaguars 17: Justin Tucker kicked his fourth field goal, a   with 1 minute 2 seconds left for a road victory that kept the Baltimore Ravens undefeated and dropped the Jacksonville Jaguars to  . Packers 34, Lions 27: Aaron Rodgers threw four touchdown passes  —   all in the first half  —   and the Packers withstood a rally from the Lions to win at home. Raiders 17, Titans 10: The Oakland Raiders beat the Tennessee Titans in Nashville, getting three turnovers and a sack from their maligned defense. Russell Wilson threw for 243 yards and a touchdown before suffering a left knee injury as the Seattle Seahawks rolled to a   rout of the San Francisco 49ers on Sunday. Wilson was injured with about 10 minutes to go in the third quarter getting pulled down awkwardly on a sack by San Francisco’s Eli Harold. Harold was called for a horse collar penalty, but the bigger concern was how he fell on Wilson’s left leg. Wilson stayed down on the field for a few moments before walking off. Wilson missed the first play of his career due to injury, but returned to throw one more pass. The completion led to the third of Steven Hauschka’s three field goals for a   lead and after that Wilson’s day was done. Read more about Wilson’s injury. Carolina Panthers quarterback Cam Newton did not kneel during the national anthem on Sunday, but he addressed the unrest in Charlotte, N. C. by wearing a   emblazoned with a quotation from Martin Luther King Jr. Newton, who has avoided making race a part of his personal narrative, surprised some by taking time during the week to address Tuesday’s shooting in Charlotte, which occurred close to the Panthers’ stadium. Many thought Newton would choose to take a knee during the national anthem, similar to the protests of Colin Kaepernick of the San Francisco 49ers instead, Newton wore a black   during   that read, “Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere. ” While Newton did not kneel during the anthem, his teammate Marcus Ball stood with his arm extended and his index finger raised, and a group of protesters outside the stadium knelt. Elsewhere in the league, a growing number of players knelt or raised their fists during the anthem, including four players from the Washington Redskins. Last week, DeSean Jackson, who was one of the Redskins players raising his fist, published a photo of Terrence Crutcher, a black man shot by the police in Tulsa, Okla. on his Instagram feed with a caption that read in part, “Us as black People are a threat  so jus take our lives smh the system been set up for us not to live and make it thru all this. ”