 (CNN) A hostage situation subdued    by a pizza order. A  workhorse warplane that may be seeing its last days    though not if a congresswoman has her say. And a disabled ”Price Is Right” contestant who won an unlikely prize    a treadmill. These are your best videos of the week. 1. Is the Warthog being put out to pasture? For years, the   warplane, known as the Warthog, has been one of the most versatile in the military. But the Air Force says budgetary issues may end support for the plane. Congresswoman Martha McSally ( ) believes there are other solutions. Watch the video at the top of this story. 2. What do we have for her, Drew? Uh . .. a brand new treadmill? Danielle Perez was a winner on ”The Price Is Right.” Her prize: a treadmill. Danielle Perez also lost her legs in an accident several years ago. (To be fair, she also won a sauna.) Watch the video: 3. An award for Stuart Scott’s daughters, Sportscaster Ernie Johnson, a cancer survivor, won an Emmy on Tuesday. But with his voice breaking, he said, ”This is not for me”    and presented the award to Stuart Scott’s daughters. Scott, the famed ESPN sportscaster, died of cancer in January. Watch the video: 4. There’s a reason Ryan Gosling was eating cereal, A couple years ago, a filmmaker named Ryan McHenry made a series of parody videos, ”Ryan Gosling Won’t Eat His Cereal,” that sent up Gosling’s intense image. McHenry died of cancer recently, and Gosling    who was a fan of the videos    paid tribute in a Vine. Watch the video: 5. After liberation from ISIS, then what? Kurdish forces managed to take control of the Syrian city of Kobani after four months of battles with ISIS. But what’s been left is a city in ruins. Watch the video: 6. Missing for 70 years, During World War II, Japan built what were essentially submarine aircraft carriers. The largest, the   could hold three bombers. It was found in 2013 in Hawaii, and video was just released of the details. Watch the video: 7. Enter the little dragon, He’s been called the ”mini Bruce Lee.” You’ll have to see him to believe him. Quentin Tarantino, if you ever make another ”Kill Bill” . .. Watch the video: 8. Check your screen, Do you think you could refrain from checking your phone for a week? Your iPad for a few days? CNN’s Lisa France gave up our modern mobile electronics for 48 hours. Her dog got lots of exercise. Watch the video: 9. 1932 Cadillac   convertible for sale a little dusty, A man kept some vintage cars in a Texas barn for more than 40 years. They’re expected to fetch several hundred thousand dollars at auction. Watch the video: 10. Quick thinking foils a crime, A Florida mom was being held hostage when she had a clever idea to alert the police. It involved dinner. Watch the video: 11. Note for note, hair for hair, When Jimmy Fallon and Jack Black covered Extreme’s song ”More than Words,” they didn’t skimp on the details. Watch the video: