Good morning. Welcome to California Today, a morning update on the stories that matter to Californians (and anyone else interested in the state). Tell us about the issues that matter to you  —   and what you’d like to see: CAtoday@nytimes. com. Want to receive California Today by email? Sign up. Raise taxes. Lower the number of smokers. That’s the idea at the heart of a November ballot initiative that supporters say could save thousands of lives from   health issues. A “yes” vote on Proposition 56 would add $2 to the existing tax on a pack of cigarettes, bringing it to a total state tax of $2. 87 per pack. It would be the first tax increase on cigarettes in California since 1998. “This is a long overdue hike,” said Tom Steyer, a philanthropist and leader of the Yes on 56 campaign. “And if you don’t smoke, you don’t pay. ” Raising cigarette prices has proved to reduce smoking, public health experts say. California’s taxation of cigarettes has lagged behind most states. In Texas, the tax has been $1. 41 a pack since 2007. New York charges $4. 35, the highest amount in the country. Critics have portrayed such taxes as another example of state overreach and say such efforts unfairly target   smokers. But the central argument against the California measure has focused more on where the additional money will go. “It’s really a tax hike grab by insurance companies, hospital corporations and other wealthy special interests,” said Beth Miller, a spokeswoman for the “No on 56 campaign. Supporters say the goal is to cut smoking, but the measure would also help to shore up health care funding. According to the Legislative Analyst’s Office, the tax increase would generate more than $1 billion, most of it allocated to   the coverage plan for   Californians. Multiple attempts to raise California’s cigarette tax at the ballot box and in the Legislature have failed over the years. As with past efforts, Proposition 56 supporters are bracing for a media blitz  —   bankrolled by more than 55 million from R. J. Reynolds and Philip Morris. Stanton Glantz, a professor of medicine at U. C. San Francisco whose research focuses on tobacco, said Proposition 56, crucially, sets aside funds for the state’s   programs. California already has the nation’s   per capita smoking rate, with only about 10 percent continuing to light up. If the initiative passes, Professor Glantz said, “I think that we will end up with smoking that is so low that the behavior will simply collapse. ” See reporting in The New York Times on other Nov. 8 ballot initiatives: Proposition 51 (a new school bond) | Propositions 62 and 66 (death penalty questions) | Propositions 65 and 67 (on banning plastic bags). And dig into analyses of all 17 statewide measures by the Legislative Analyst’s Office, CALmatters and Ballotpedia. • Many police officers have little training in how to deal with people who may not behave rationally. [The New York Times] • The authorities tried to deport Alfred Olango, the man fatally shot by the El Cajon police. But his native Uganda refused to take him. [The New York Times] • After trending down for years, hate crimes in Los Angeles County jumped in 2015, a report said. [Los Angeles Times] • The superintendent of Yosemite National Park is retiring after employee complaints that he created a hostile workplace. [The New York Times] • Gov. Jerry Brown signed a law that requires restrooms for single users to be designated  . [Sacramento Bee] • He also signed legislation creating stricter rules for when the police can seize property from suspected criminals. [Los Angeles Times] • A disbarred lawyer pleaded guilty in a kidnapping so bizarre that the police in Vallejo initially dismissed it as a hoax. [The Associated Press] • For the first time in decades, private ferry boats will ply San Francisco Bay, offering public commuter service. [East Bay Times] • Mary Weber Novak, who turned Spottswoode into a top producer of cabernet sauvignon and sauvignon blanc, died in St. Helena. [The New York Times] • California’s hotel bungalow boom: Three properties are reviving the traditional Hollywood  . [The New York Times] The Giants put a statue of Willie Mays in front of their San Francisco ballpark. The San Diego Chargers’ stadium has one for Jack Murphy, the great sportswriter. Outside Staples Center is a statue of Kareem   among other sports heroes. And this week, the Sacramento Kings unveiled a statue of their own at their new arena  —   a giant, brightly colored interpretation of Piglet, the diminutive but   pal of Winnie the Pooh, designed by the   pop artist Jeff Koons. The choice has been a contentious one. After the plan to acquire the sculpture was announced last year, some critics called the artwork’s childlike theme  . Others took aim at the cost  —   $8 million  —   as well as the hiring of an    Mr. Koons, to create it. But the Kings organization and its owners, who put up most of the money, have stood by it. Vivek Ranadivé, the team’s majority owner, said in an interview with The Sacramento Bee last year that the statue “will be a symbol of hope and optimism, which will represent the aspirations of Sacramento as well. ” The   sculpture called “Coloring Book” was intended to evoke the Piglet character from the A. A. Milne books, with bright colors as if drawn by a child. On Monday, during the unveiling ceremony near the main entrance to the arena, called Golden 1 Center, Mr. Koons spoke about art’s power to influence the viewer. “You have a sense of transcendence, how you can become more,” he said. Sacramento is not the only team dabbling in   art. Daniel McDermon, a culture editor for The Times, writes about how the art world is increasingly becoming a player in the sports world. Outside the arena on Thursday,   gave some initial reviews. “I know I can’t draw a straight line, but I could do that,” said James Lincoln, a Kings fan. Standing nearby, Naborn Ward, also a Kings fan, said the team shouldn’t have spent more than a few thousand dollars for the artwork. Asked what would make a better statue, he said, “I would have done something with sports  —   a sports hero, something, anything, you know  —   not Piglet. ” California Today goes live at 6 a. m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes. com. The California Today columnist, Mike McPhate, is a   Californian  —   born outside Sacramento and raised in San Juan Capistrano. He lives in Davis. Follow him on Twitter. California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and attended U. C. Berkeley.