The authorities in El Cajon, Calif. on Friday released video footage of an officer fatally shooting an unarmed black man, as part of an effort to quell what has been growing unrest in the community since the episode on Tuesday. The footage shed little new light on what happened to the man, Alfred Olango, 38. The video came from two perspectives  —   one from a civilian’s cellphone and the other from a surveillance camera at a   window at a taco shop. In both videos, the faces and heads of the officers and Mr. Olango were blurred to appear as gray dots. Also, both videos were taken from a distance. The   surveillance video shows the scene before the shooting and as a patrol car arrived. The second video shows Mr. Olango walking toward an officer and then walking away backward and sideways as the officer approaches. The officer and Mr. Olango, facing each other, then move side to side in tandem six times before a second officer appears. Multiple shots are fired, and a woman can then be heard screaming. The angle and distance of the videos made it difficult to see clearly what happened because one of the officers was standing in front of Mr. Olango when the shooting happened. The police previously said they responded to a report of a person acting “erratically. ” Mr. Olango refused “multiple instructions” by the first officer to remove his hand from his pocket, the police said in a news release on Tuesday. The officer drew his weapon and pointed it at Mr. Olango while continuing to direct him to take his hand out of his pocket. A second officer arrived and prepared to use an electronic control device. As Mr. Olango paced and the officers tried to talk to him, he “rapidly drew an object from his front pants pocket, placed both hands together and extended them rapidly toward the officer taking up what appeared to be a shooting stance,” the police said. The object he pointed was a silvery vape smoking device with a    cylinder, the police said. At that point, the officer with the electronic control device discharged his weapon, the police said. Simultaneously, the officer with the firearm discharged his weapon several times, striking Mr. Olango. No gun was found. Mr. Olango’s mother said during an emotional news conference on Thursday that her son was having a mental breakdown when he was confronted by the police at the taco shop, Reuters reported. The shooting has touched off days of growing unrest and violence in El Cajon, a suburb of San Diego. On Thursday night, about 75 protesters gathered near the scene of the shooting and threw rocks, bricks and bottles at officers, broke windows and jumped on cars, the El Cajon police chief, Jeff Davis, said at the news conference. A San Diego police officer was struck on the head with a brick, the chief said. The officer was not seriously hurt. Four demonstrators were charged with unlawful assembly and one was charged with assault with a deadly weapon for the episode with the officer. The chief was joined at the news conference by religious and civic leaders who said they wanted the community to move forward in peace. Bonnie Dumanis, the San Diego County district attorney, said that the shooting was under investigation and that “no decision has been made” about filing charges. Chief Davis said the department released the footage in the interest of public safety because protests had shifted from peaceful to more violent over the past days. “This is a difficult situation as any law enforcement officer will encounter and not one we seek,” the chief said.