Gov. Chris Christie, who has long resisted raising any taxes, has battled with Democratic leaders since early summer over raising New Jersey’s gas tax, reaching an impasse that brought hundreds of highway and transit projects to a standstill that lasted months. But on Friday, a day after a fatal train crash in Hoboken focused attention on the troubled conditions of the   railroad, Mr. Christie, a Republican, finally gave way by accepting the first tax increase during his seven years in office. He said he had agreed to raise the gas tax by 23 cents a gallon to replenish the depleted Transportation Trust Fund, which the state uses to pay for improvements to rails, roads and bridges. Mr. Christie, who has just over one year left in his second term, has prided himself on his refusal to raise taxes and promoted his record during his campaign to be the Republican presidential candidate. But he said he made an exception for the gas tax because the need to maintain the state’s transportation infrastructure was so critical. “While I’m not authorizing any other tax increase during my time as governor,” he said, “I’m authorizing this one because of the importance of the Transportation Trust Fund, the tax fairness that we’ve accomplished together and the compromise we’ve reached, and because we need to responsibly finance this type of activity. ” Mr. Christie made the announcement at the State House in Trenton, flanked by the State Senate president, Stephen M. Sweeney, and the speaker of the State Assembly, Vincent Prieto, both Democrats. The three men each described the agreement as a   compromise. “Sorry it took so long,” Senator Sweeney said. “But we all have strong personalities, and sometimes it just takes time to get together. ” The increase could take effect as soon as next week. The Legislature has scheduled a special session for Wednesday to vote on the matter. In exchange for Mr. Christie’s acceptance of the higher gas tax, the Democrats agreed to lower the state’s sales tax by less than half a penny and to phase out the estate tax by 2018. Mr. Christie said the sales tax rate would decrease next year to 6. 875 percent, from 7 percent. In 2018, he said, it will drop again, to 6. 625 percent. He said the gas tax would pay for an   $32 billion reauthorization of the Transportation Trust Fund, adding that “$32 billion will be invested in infrastructure and improvements and modernizations in the state of New Jersey over the next eight years. ” Mr. Prieto said that the agreement “couldn’t come soon enough,” and that replenishing the transportation fund was “so important because it’s a public safety issue. ” Mr. Christie had argued for the reduction of other taxes to balance the tax burden of New Jersey residents. He had called for a 1 cent decrease in the sales tax rate, but settled for a package of cuts that would include the smaller decrease. Along with the   drop in the sales tax, the Democrats also accepted a phaseout of the state’s estate tax, an increase in the   tax credit for the working poor and a tax break for veterans. The     increase in what the state collects on fuel sales  —   currently the   rate of all the states  —   would be the first in New Jersey in nearly three decades. It was last raised in 1988, and now only Alaska’s is lower. With the proposed increase, to 37. 5 cents, New Jersey’s gas tax would be considerably higher than the national average of about 21 cents. The agreement met with immediate criticism from some advocacy groups. “These leaders have foolishly paired a big package of tax cuts that will disproportionately benefit   New Jerseyans while decimating the state’s ability to pay for essential services, promised obligations and other critical investments,” said Jon Whiten, the vice president of New Jersey Policy Perspectives. “While it is absolutely essential that New Jersey invest in its transportation infrastructure, that investment should not be held hostage to some warped idea of   tax fairness that will cost the state well over $1 billion a year,” Mr. Whiten added. “This is, quite simply, the wrong path forward for New Jersey. ” Mr. Christie said the trust fund would receive $2 billion a year for eight years, which he said would be its biggest and longest reauthorization. With federal matching funds, he said, the state would have $32 billion to spend on road and transit projects over the next eight years. The governor said the tax cuts were estimated to save the state’s taxpayers $164 million next year and as much as $1. 4 billion when they are completely in place in 2021.