 (CNN) It looks like a busy workspace, but the presence of chunky computer monitors and 1980s movie posters gives it away. This is the set for ”Halt and Catch Fire,” AMC’s series that takes place during the early days of the computer revolution. It’s one of six shows to watch this week. 1. ”Halt and Catch Fire,” Sunday 10 p. m. ET, AMC, The headquarters of Mutiny, an upstart computer company led by the two women at the center of the show (played by Mackenzie Davis and Kerry Bishe) is located in a house. It’s a big change from the first season’s focus on an established company. As the second season begins, the brilliant,   Joe (played by Lee Pace) is ready to ”reset” his life. ”In the first season, he lied, bullied and manipulated and ended up failing,” Pace told CNN on the set of the show. In the meantime, Donna’s husband Gordon is coming off a breakdown he went through in season one, and actor Scoot McNairy thinks he is in a good place for the season. 2. ”Hannibal,” Thursday 10 p. m. NBC, Critics have raved about this horror series, which has won over a devoted fanbase (”fannibals,” if you will). Executive producer Bryan Fuller has a lot up his sleeve for season three, including his take on the first Hannibal Lecter novel, ”Red Dragon,” in the second half of the season. For starters, Richard Armitage (”The Hobbit”) will be playing the novel’s character Francis Dolarhyde, the Red Dragon. And we get a lot more of Gillian Anderson, whose character accompanies Hannibal on the run in Europe. ”We had so much fun working together in the first two seasons and she’s such an iconic actress and brings such a specific energy to the show that it seems like a really logical next step for the series to flush out that relationship expanded and get more of the chemistry between Mads Mikkelsen and Gillian Anderson,” Fuller told reporters on a recent conference call. 3. ”Community,” streams Tuesday, Yahoo! No word as yet if the show will extend beyond six seasons (or a movie, for that matter) so Tuesday’s finale could be the end.  Veteran character actor Keith David (”Platoon,” ”They Live”) joined the cast this season and spoke to CNN at Atlanta’s Momocon about his experience on the show, saying he had great fun with the character of Elroy and great respect for the cast. In one word, he calls the finale ”heartwarming,” and said if the fans want it enough, Yahoo! may just give it that seventh season. In the meantime, the promo for the finale is, as always, very   referring to what could happen if the show came back. 4. ”Pretty Little Liars,” Tuesday 8 p. m. ABC Family, Fan are ready for the sixth season of the wildly popular teen mystery series launches, now that the identity of ”A” has finally been discovered (we think).   5. ”Hot in Cleveland,” Wednesday 10 p. m. TV Land, Betty White and   Jane Leeves, Wendie Malick and Valerie Bertinelli wrap the series after six years. 6. ”Sense8,” streams Friday, Netflix, The Wachowskis (”The Matrix”) are behind this series about eight people who share one consciousness. It’s a safe bet that things will get heady and weird, with some great fight sequences. 