 (CNN) She has finally made her debut. Vanity Fair tweeted its latest cover Monday, starring the former Bruce Jenner, now called Caitlyn. Famed photographer Annie Leibovitz shot the first images of Jenner in her Malibu home for the upcoming issue. The photos accompany an article written by ”Friday Night Lights” author Buzz Bissinger. According to the website, ”Jenner speaks movingly about her journey, telling Bissinger, ’If I was lying on my deathbed and I had kept this secret and never ever did anything about it, I would be lying there saying, ”You just blew your entire life.” ’ ” In April, Jenner sat down for an interview with Diane Sawyer to reveal that the former Olympian had the ”soul of a female.”  Why we need to listen to Bruce Jenner’s story, The cover was greeted with praise, with many on social media rallying around #CallMeCaitlyn. Jenner also started a Twitter account, which reached 1 million followers in Guinness World Record time    4 hours and 3 minutes. Kardashians’ show reveals roller coaster of Jenner’s transition, Khloe Kardashian, one of Jenner’s stepdaughters, showed her support on Instagram, posting, ”We were given this life because you were strong enough to live it! I couldn’t be prouder! !! Caitlyn, You are beautiful! !!” Culture’s transgender moment, Jenner’s daughter Kendall posted a video of some    footage of the Vanity Fair shoot with a voiceover of Jenner saying, ”As soon as the Vanity Fair cover comes out, I’m free.”  Celebrity journalist David Caplan tweeted a picture of Jenner in a   red outfit and shades, styling in a sports car. Why Jenner chose Vanity Fair, And it took the Internet only a minute to decide that Caitlyn Jenner bears a striking resemblance to actress Jessica Lange. GLAAD President and Chief Executive Officer Sarah Kate Ellis hailed the Jenner cover. ”By sharing her journey with the world, Caitlyn Jenner is accelerating acceptance of transgender people everywhere and reminds us all how important it is to live as your most authentic self,” Ellis said in a statement. What not to say to a transgender person, ”For a transgender person to step into the world as his or her authentic self is a moment of tremendous freedom,” added Nick Adams, GLAAD’s director of programs for transgender media. ”The world can now see what Caitlyn Jenner has always known, that she is    and always has been    a woman.” ESPN says Jenner will receive the Arthur Ashe Award at its 2015 ESPYS awards show July 15 in Los Angeles. According to the ESPYS’ site, ”Recipients reflect the spirit of Arthur Ashe, possessing strength in the face of adversity, courage in the face of peril and the willingness to stand up for their beliefs no matter what the cost.” The award is named for the tennis star who brought awareness to HIV and AIDS after he announced his diagnosis in 1992. He died of complications from the disease in 1993. Past recipients of the award include Billie Jean King, Nelson Mandela, Muhammad Ali and Michael Sam.    E! home of the family’s reality show ”Keeping Up With the Kardashians,” will air an   series about Jenner’s transition starting July 26.  Bruce Jenner’s reality series: What we hope to see