 (CNN) Since officially entering the 2016 presidential race in April, Hillary Clinton has been actively avoiding interaction with the media. Meanwhile, her campaign has been plagued by scandal    from concerns about her private email server to new questions surrounding what she knew about the Benghazi attacks, to the serious questions being raised about donations made to the Clinton Foundation during her tenure as secretary of state. Despite the brewing controversies, Hillary Clinton has shunned questions from the media. This has been in stark contrast with, for example, Republican Party candidate Carly Fiorina, who had reportedly fielded 314 more questions than Clinton by early May. Of course, Hillary’s distaste for the media is no secret    it dates back decades. But this course of freezing out the media is simply not sustainable, especially now that Hillary officially has Democratic competition for the nomination in the form of New Hampshire Sen. Bernie Sanders and former Maryland Gov. Martin O’Malley, both of whom will continue to challenge her more directly as the campaign moves forward. Indeed, Clinton’s decision to hide behind her campaign’s carefully controlled media strategy is beginning to take a toll on her approval ratings.  A   poll released this week shows Hillary is underwater, with a 50% unfavorable rate    her worst since 2001. The same poll also found opinions about her trustworthiness have dropped considerably since last summer, especially among independents, with whom she is suffering double digit losses.  Just as troubling for the Clinton campaign will be that she has also lost ground in    matchups against current GOP candidates Sens. Rand Paul and Marco Rubio and Gov. Scot Walker, now polling statistically even. At one point, Hillary Clinton led all three by double digits in key swing states like Florida. As of Tuesday, that deficit no longer exists.  These numbers won’t be helped by stories like one from a recent campaign stop in New Hampshire, where an excited Hillary supporter approached the candidate asking for an autograph was told sternly to go to the back of the line. In an early primary state where    interactions with voters are arguably more important than any other state, Hillary must surely realize that perceptions are key    especially for a candidate campaigning for support among every day,   voters. The fact is, likeability matters. Political conventional wisdom will tell you that a candidate’s likeability will triumph over many other factors, like experience. Over the last 35 years, that axiom seems to have been proven true.   For example, Bush 41 beat a rigid Dukakis.  In 1992, a telegenic young southern governor from Arkansas named Bill Clinton played the saxophone on late night TV and told supporters, ”I feel your pain,” making them believe he cared about their economic struggles and that George H. W. Bush did not. Both Al Gore and John Kerry lost to George W. Bush ultimately because voters just did not like them. And then there’s the example of our current president. Of course, Barack Obama’s 2008 campaign was partially buttressed by the historical significance of becoming the first   president. But Obama still emerged from relative obscurity to overtake the Clinton dynasty and created an unprecedented cult of personality and excitement not seen since the days of John F. Kennedy. Voters liked him. He was viewed as relatable and empathetic.  In 2012, exit polling showed voters overwhelming believed Barack Obama cared about ”people like them” 81% to 18% over Mitt Romney leading to an Obama second term.  If past is prologue, then the Clinton campaign knows the dangers of Hillary’s plummeting favorability rating. They must also be keenly aware of how problematic her perceived inability to relate to the middle class is becoming    only 47% of respondents in the CNN poll believe Hillary cares for people like them. That’s down 6 points since July 2014.  Ironically, it wasn’t an official news camera that caught Clinton’s exchange in New Hampshire. It was conservative activist group America Rising PAC, set up for the sole purpose of tracking and cataloging the words and actions of Democratic candidates.  Some might complain these ”gotcha” moments don’t reflect candidates’ positions. But this is the world we live in, one where anyone armed with a smartphone and a nifty app like Periscope can capture every moment along the campaign trail and expose candidate missteps instantaneously via the Internet. These unscripted, uncontrolled moments can make or break a campaign.  Just ask Mitt Romney. Ultimately, no matter how hard Hillary’s campaign tries to control media access and messaging, it’s difficult to reshape opinion about the likeability factor of someone who’s been in the public eye for 25 years.  Given the multitude of platforms by which information can be dispersed to the masses, it becomes a Herculean task. Even Hillary’s personal Pretorian Guard campaign cannot protect her from herself in the new media age.  Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook. .  Read CNNOpinion’s Flipboard magazine.   