Hurricane Matthew assaulted Haiti’s southern coast with deadly fury on Tuesday, destroying homes and crops, sweeping away livestock and cutting off transportation as a large part of the Caribbean was pummeled by the storm’s     winds and torrential rain. The top United Nations official in Haiti, Mourad Wahba, described the storm as “the largest humanitarian event” in the country of 11 million since a devastating earthquake six years ago, with thousands scrambling for shelter. Haiti’s civil protection agency said a bridge collapse severed the main highway connecting the south with    the capital. Initial reports from the government said that five people had been killed, 10 people had been injured and one person was missing. Interior Minister François Anick Joseph said Tuesday night that 14, 530 people had been evacuated and that about 2, 200 homes were flooded or destroyed. As of Wednesday morning, the storm, which was downgraded to Category 3, from Category 4, had passed through Cuba, and the National Hurricane Center in Miami warned that a dangerous surge was beginning to spread over the Bahamas, to the north. A hurricane warning was in effect for Haiti, parts of the Bahamas and of Cuba, and a coastal stretch of Florida that includes Boca Raton, Fort Lauderdale and West Palm Beach, as well as Lake Okeechobee. As the Carolinas, Florida and Georgia braced for wind and rain, officials in the Caribbean took stock of the destruction. Georges Dubuche, the former director general of Haiti’s Ministry of Health who serves on an advisory board for Direct Relief, an aid organization, said on Tuesday that he feared that there would be “maybe hundreds of dead. ” Mr. Joseph acknowledged that the scope of the destruction was not yet clear and that the government was still assessing the damage. The storm threw into doubt the   plans for presidential elections scheduled for Sunday. Officials were expected to announce a decision on Wednesday, with many experts saying it would be nearly impossible to conduct voting with crucial infrastructure crippled or destroyed. “I have a suspicion they will hold it in two weeks,” said Leslie Voltaire, the campaign manager for one of the candidates, Maryse Narcisse. “But it is only a suspicion. ” The storm was still a Category 4 when it made landfall around 7 a. m. Tuesday at Les Anglais, on the southwestern tip of Haiti, the western half of the island of Hispaniola. Frantic residents in the south said by phone that they were coping with major devastation as the storm felled trees, ripped roofs and destroyed farms in what already was a struggling area in the Western Hemisphere’s poorest country. “Thank God our neighbors came to save us,” said Daphne Thelma, a resident of Les Cayes, one of the   towns on the southern coast. “We lost all our crops, and have nothing left. ” She said her family of eight, four of them children, had been rescued by neighbors as trees crashed into their home. The family split up to ride out the storm in different houses. Adassa Romilus, a spokeswoman for Heifer International, a charity that works with 30, 000 farming families in Haiti, said many livestock placed in shelters for protection had been killed. “The shelters couldn’t withstand the force of the hurricane,” she said. Officials reported that roughly 400 homes had been destroyed. In the town of Kay Coq on the remote island of    a fishing community of 2, 000 people about six miles off the coast of Les Cayes, the hurricane left a scene of chaos. “Right now there is no more Kay Coq,” said Carobert Altema, 58, a fisherman. “Houses are down, people are screaming. We have no updates about which people are missing. ” Mr. Altema said household belongings had been washed out to sea. “At my age, this is the first time I have experienced something like this,” he said. Aid organizations in Haiti said rescue efforts were focused on evacuating people from houses threatened with collapse. “People have been leaving their homes under the full force of the storm to find shelters,” said   Fignole, a program manager in Haiti for Oxfam, the international charity. Mr. Fignole said the storm had hit Haiti just as farmers in the south were about to harvest plantains, a staple in their subsistence diet. “There will be real hunger in the weeks ahead,” he said. Other charitable groups doing work in Haiti also expressed alarm about the storm’s effect on food production in the country, which has been struggling to recover from a prolonged drought. John Hasse, national director for World Vision Haiti, said that the storm destroyed avocado trees and that at least two communities had lost their entire banana crops. “We have gotten good rain this year. We were starting to see progress in malnutrition,” he said, because families were able to prepare healthier food for their children. “We think this is going to destroy a lot of it. ” The National Hurricane Center had projected 15 to 25 inches of rain for southern Haiti and in the southwestern part of the Dominican Republic, warning that as much as 40 inches of rain might fall in some areas. Some streets in    flooded, and public transit was paralyzed. But by late afternoon, the storm appeared to have spared    the worst of its wrath. Moderate rain was falling, residents reported, with no sign of the catastrophic flooding that was affecting areas farther south. Although the sea level rose at the edge of Cité Soleil, the city’s harbor slum, the water did not breach the central wharf. Residents in the most vulnerable part of the slum, a   shantytown called Deye Chabon, piled logs and garbage into barricades that kept the water from spilling into the narrow streets. Nonetheless, residents of Deye Chabon were keeping a wary eye on the sea. “They say if it keeps rising, they will have to go find another place to be,” said Sherby St. Louis, 16, a student. Melanie Jean Pierre, 32, a street vendor, said she was riding out the storm in    with her children. She said the only damage had come from a leak in the roof that soaked her bed. More than four million children may be threatened by the hurricane, Unicef warned on Tuesday. “Waterborne diseases are the first threat to children in similar situations,” Marc Vincent, the Unicef representative in Haiti, said. “Our first priority is to make sure children have enough safe water. ” Jessica Pearl, the Haiti country director for the Mercy Corps charity, who lives in    said a main concern in   areas would be providing drinking water, which she described as “a problem in normal times. ” Haiti still is recovering from a devastating 2010 earthquake, with 55, 000 people living in shelters. A cholera epidemic that followed the earthquake has persisted, and it spiked in 2016. Partners in Health, an aid agency that has long worked in Haiti, says there have been 26, 000 cholera cases this year. The hurricane “has the potential to be a big setback for years of efforts to bring cholera under control,” Ms. Pearl said. “The people here have just been pushed down by one thing after another. ” The hurricane center had warned that the combination of a dangerous storm surge and large and destructive waves could raise water levels by seven to 11 feet above normal tide levels on the southern coast of Cuba seven to 10 feet on the southern coast of Haiti four to six feet on the northern coast of Cuba and four to six feet in Jamaica. Officials in the United States were preparing for one of the most powerful hurricanes to threaten the East Coast. The governors of Florida, Georgia, North Carolina and South Carolina declared emergencies while meteorologists refined their forecasts and suggested that the storm could lash the shoreline into the weekend. More than 2, 000 National Guard soldiers were activated across the South, and the authorities planned lane reversals, school closures and sandbag distribution sites. In Florida, where hurricane and tropical storm watches were in effect for part of the coast, officials were considering evacuations. “The problem we have with this storm is that the projected path is right along our coast,” Gov. Rick Scott said on Tuesday during a stop in the Florida Keys. “If it turns, we’re not going to have a lot of time to make a decision. The best thing is to be prepared and not to take any chances. ” Mr. Scott warned that the storm could prove “catastrophic,” and officials worried about extended power failures, widespread flooding and a lack of preparation along the heavily populated Interstate 95 corridor. Gov. Nikki R. Haley of South Carolina, who said officials expected Matthew to strike the state as a Category 2 or 3 hurricane, deferred a decision on a coastal evacuation until Wednesday. “I would love nothing more than to see this just suddenly take a   turn and go out to sea,” said Ms. Haley, who told about one million residents to prepare to leave the coast as soon as Wednesday afternoon.