 (CNN) The New York prison escapees are still out there. Race is    in the Texas pool party case. And Team USA wins, It’s Tuesday, and here are five things to know for your New Day:   NEW YORK PRISON ESCAPE, Just a theory: Did Richard Matt and David Sweat seduce their way out of prison? A direct question, to be sure, but it is plausible, says a noted criminologist. He thinks a female prison employee whom cops questioned about the escape may have somehow ”succumbed” to the two men and agreed to help them. So basically she had a thing for bad boys? Yep, there’s even a name for it: hybristophilia. As the manhunt continues, police are pretty much treating her like an accomplice.    TEXAS POOL PARTY VIDEO, The race question: The first time you saw the video, you knew it would come up: did race play a factor in the pool party melee? Residents of the neighborhood where the incident took place say no the kids were essentially trespassing and the police response was necessary, they say. The teens involved and some activists    who held a rally yesterday    said yes, the kids were targeted by some residents and the cops because they were black. The officer at the center of this controversy, identified late last night as Eric Casebolt, remains on administrative leave.   ANGOLA 3, Not yet out: Albert Woodfox may be getting out of a Louisiana prison, after four decades in solitary lockup. Don’t remember Woodfox? He was part of the   ”Angola 3,” a group of prisoners accused of killing a prison guard in 1972. The other two members of the ”3” were released after their convictions were overturned or vacated. A judge ruled yesterday that Woodfox should go free because of his age, health and questions over whether he’d get a fair third trial in Louisiana. Predictably, the state sees things differently. Louisiana’s attorney general filed an emergency stay to block the judge’s order.   ISIS  Wives’ tale: The fight against ISIS isn’t going well (which President Obama hinted at yesterday). So the U. S. and its allies are looking for any advantage they can find. Have they found one with ISIS wives? After killing a senior ISIS leader last month and capturing and interrogating his wife, the U. S. believes the wives of ISIS figures may be more deeply involved in the terror group’s operations than previously thought. This may be because ISIS thinks U. S. intelligence pays less attention to them. Not anymore.   WOMEN’S WORLD CUP, Step 1: Team USA took a first step toward a World Cup championship yesterday with a   win over Australia. Not the most convincing of victories, and the women can certainly play better. But, as they say in the world of sports cliches: a win is a win is a win. Up next for the Americans is Sweden, in a match set for Friday.   Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a few others that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing. Getting ready: Stephen Colbert writes a new theme song for the ”Late Show.” Simply beautiful: Try not to cry as this    girl covers Wiz Khalifa’s ”See You Again.” Got a license for that?: After making a lightsaber, an (eccentric) young man makes a laser shotgun. Guess everyone needs a hobby. Great escape: A baby ducky, escaping a zoo pond, gets an assist from a helpful hippo.