 (CNN) Police have escorted supermodel Kate Moss off a plane at an airport near London after she was reportedly being disruptive, according to reports in the UK media, including the BBC.  Police would not confirm to CNN that it was Kate Moss. CNN has reached out to Moss’ representatives for comment. Police met easyJet Flight 2232 from Bodrum, Turkey, at London Luton Airport on Sunday ”due to the behavior of a passenger on board,” according to a statement from the airline. Moss was seen earlier that day in Bodrum celebrating the 50th birthday of friend Sadie Frost, a designer and former wife of actor Jude Law. Frost posted a series of images on her Instagram account that indicated that she, Moss and other friends, including party planner Fran Cutler and former model turned Harley Street nutritionist Rose Ferguson, were staying at The LifeCo, a detox retreat center. Frost posted a picture that showed Moss dressed in a striped pajama suit with the caption, ”Morning!! Perfect breakfast attire! !” Police said they were called to help staff escort a passenger off a flight arriving at the airport, in Bedfordshire near London, on Sunday afternoon. The passenger had been reported as ”disruptive on the flight,” Bedfordshire police said in a statement. ”Officers attended and escorted the passenger from the plane. No formal complaints were made against her and she was not arrested,” the statement added. After 25 years as a top model, Moss, 41, is one of the world’s most recognizable faces. Life in the limelight, Originally from Croydon near London, she was famously discovered at JFK Airport in New York in 1988 at age 14 by Sarah Doukas, the founder of Storm Model Management. Moss’ androgynous look and waifish figure were   away from the   glamour and curves of supermodels like Cindy Crawford and Claudia Schiffer, who dominated the runways at that time. Her look perfectly fit the new more   minimalist aesthetic of the early ’90s, and she shot to fame in 1993 in a series of ads for Calvin Klein, which popularized the ”heroin chic” look. Over the years, she has graced the cover of Vogue    probably the most coveted spot in fashion    numerous times and strutted down countless catwalks. Moss’ scandals, She has also been at the center of a few scandals. In the early 2000s, Moss notoriously dated British rocker Pete Doherty, a former Libertines front man who was known for his drug abuse, and she became a regular in the gossip pages. She lost modeling contracts in 2005 after the Daily Mirror, a British tabloid newspaper, published photos of her snorting lines of white powder through a   bank note. ”Cocaine Kate: Supermodel Kate Moss snorts line after line,” the headline read, and in the following days, she lost contracts with the likes of Burberry and HM. She released an apology through her agency Storm: ”I take full responsibility for my actions,” she said, and told ”all the people I have let down” that she was sorry.