 (CNN) If Sen. Lindsey Graham were to become the first   bachelor president in more than a century, then who would fill the role of first spouse?  ”Well, I’ve got a sister, she could play that role if necessary,” said Graham in an interview with DailyMail. com published Tuesday when asked about who his first lady would be. ”I’ve got a lot of friends. We’ll have a rotating first lady.”  While Graham announced his candidacy in Central, South Carolina on June 1, his sister, Darline Graham Nordone, was there to introduce him.  RELATED: Will Americans vote for a bachelor president? Graham’s sister has previously said she’s occupied with her immediate family and position as a public information director for the state’s Department of Vocational Rehabilitation, so it’s unclear what exact role she would play in a Graham presidency.  When asked about his ”rotating first lady” during an interview with CNN Wednesday, Graham said he could not offer the country a First Lady like other presidents in this century who came before him.  However, Graham added that having a First Lady should not hinder his chances of becoming president, and  single people should be able to run as president of the country.  ”You know at the end of the day, we’ve got a great First Lady, Michelle Obama and Laura Bush    the last two have been really good,” said Graham interview with CNN Wednesday. ”I don’t bring that to the table, but I do think I bring something unique to the table in this regard.”  ”If he had a wife and family, he would really be torn,” Nordone said in an interview with the Washington Post on April 12. ”He wouldn’t want to sacrifice his family’s happiness for the job. I’ve always had him, but who did he have? Breaks my heart.” Recent Google trends data provided to CNN found the number one question asked by Google users on Lindsey Graham was ”Is Lindsey Graham married?” The second, ”Where does Lindsey Graham stand on gay marriage?”  If selected to be president, Graham would be the first lifelong bachelor in the position since James Buchanan in 1856.