 (CNN) In the spirit of CNN’s ”The Seventies” series, Don Lemon travels to arguably the most famous and influential address in all of American history: 123 Sesame Street. Watch Don Lemon on ”CNN Tonight” at 10 p. m.   and watch  ”The Seventies,” at 9 p. m.   Thursdays. After 45 years, it’s not an exaggeration to say that ”Sesame Street” has changed the world. When the show premiered in 1969, it was unlike anything else on television. The show was even banned for a few weeks in Mississippi because of the multiracial cast.   ”Sesame Street” has always been much more than fun and games.  It teaches kids and their families how to face up to all of the facts of life, even tackling events such as   and Ferguson.  A recent study by two economics professors found that kids who watch ”Sesame Street” do better in elementary school.  Lemon got a chance to sit down for   interviews with four of the show’s furry stars: Cookie Monster, Count von Count, Elmo and Abby Cadabby.  Cookie Monster went beyond talking his love of cookies, discussing about his social media use and the key to a healthy lifestyle, which includes eating fruits, vegetables and doing ”Monster Pilates.”  Famed ”Sesame Street” statistical guru Count von Count opened up about his love life, his automobile activity and his secrets to aging gracefully. ”Counting keeps me young,” says Count.  Lemon then sat down for a joint interview with Elmo and Abby Cadabby, asking Abby about her secrets to being a good   . ”You have to learn to listen from your heart,” says Abby, stressing the importance of listening and using words carefully.   Elmo dished on his celebrity friends Whoopi Goldberg and Lupita Nyong’o, and told Lemon about what he learned about diversity. ”It would be boring if everybody was just red,” Elmo explained.  Lemon also spoke to ”Sesame Street” head writer Joey Mazzarino about how his audience has changed since the show debuted in 1969 and how he strives to keep kids interested. Unfortunately, Oscar the Grouch wasn’t available for an interview but left behind a strong stench in his place. 