 (CNN) Shortly after midnight on Saturday, the police headquarters in Dallas was inundated with gunfire. About 12 hours later, the suspect was confirmed dead, having been shot earlier by a sniper.  He engaged in two shootouts with police, the second one occurring after his vehicle was chased to the Dallas suburbs.   People in the headquarters building narrowly escaped injury, and authorities later used robots to investigate bomb threats. Here’s a timeline of key events as they unfolded, according to police: Approximately 12:30 a. m. [1:30 a. m. ET]  Witnesses see gunfire at the police headquarters.   After officers respond, a van driven by the suspect strikes a squad car and the suspect begins exchanging fire with officers.  The suspect is on foot at times, firing with an automatic weapon.  No officers are struck.  A lobby staffer, who had left his desk to get a soda, escapes being hurt, as his work area is hit with bullets.  The suspect flees the scene in the van. Approximately 12:44 a. m.  Police chase the suspect to the parking lot of a Jack in the Box restaurant, south of Dallas, where there is another exchange of gunfire, with no reported injuries to police. The suspect remains in the vehicle, and officers set up a perimeter.  The SWAT team is called in and attempts to negotiate with the suspect.  The suspect, police say, identifies himself as James Boulware. Police say they can’t immediately confirm that it is the suspect’s real identity. The suspect tells police he is angry because, he says, they took away his child and labeled him a terrorist.  The standoff continues for hours. Meanwhile, at police headquarters, officers begin investigating an additional threat    four suspicious bags left in front of the building.  One bag is confirmed to have explosives. 4:30 a. m.  A bag containing pipe bombs explodes at the headquarters when it is picked up by a police robot. The FBI bomb squad is sent to a police substation, where there is a suspicious briefcase. The standoff at the Jack in the Box parking lot continues. 4:35 a. m.  The engine block of the suspect vehicle is shot, disabling it. 5:07 a. m.  A police sniper fires at the suspect through the windshield of the vehicle.  Police believe he is hit. A robot, equipped with a camera, to is sent in to confirm. There is no contact from the suspect for some time. 6:20 a. m.  All packages at the police headquarters are declared safe. 8:10 a. m.  A police robot investigates the suspect’s vehicle, which he had claimed was equipped with explosives. Approximately 9:30 a. m.  All police substations are declared safe. 12:50 p. m. [1:50 p. m. ET]  The suspect is confirmed dead by police.