Miami (CNN) The decision of whether to support Jeb Bush or Marco Rubio was one Florida Republicans hoped they’d never have to face. But now that both are seeking the White House, longtime Republicans here have been forced to choose between a Bush, a    governor they deeply admire or Rubio, a    senator they believe has a bright future in national politics. For those who chose Bush, the reason for their allegiance comes down to one word: ”Experience.” ”I think as you look at the two, Jeb Bush is ready to be president,” former Florida Sen. Mel Martinez, a Republican, told CNN. ”I think Marco Rubio very well may be president someday. I think just for 2016, after a failed Obama presidency, we need somebody like Jeb Bush to step in there.” RELATED: Jeb Bush launches 2016 presidential bid, Bush quickly moved to flex muscle in Florida early.  During his first presidential rally here Monday, the son and brother of two U. S. presidents trotted out a parade of top Republicans from the Sunshine State. The campaign trumpeted that it had secured endorsements from 11 of the 17 House Republicans in the Florida congressional delegation, including members of Cuban descent representing the Miami area. Key members of Florida Gov. Rick Scott’s administration    Attorney General Pam Bondi, Commissioner of Agriculture Adam Putnam and Chief Financial Officer Jeff Atwater    all attended his campaign  . Bush’s Florida allies point directly to President Barack Obama, and how he came into office before completing his first term in the Senate. They admire Rubio and think he could make a fine president    just not yet    and they point to Bush’s executive experience as a reason to support him.   RELATED: Marco Rubio welcomes ”friend” Jeb Bush to 2016 field, ”When it comes time to figuring out who’s ready to be    on Day 1, I think there’s no contest,” said Al Cardenas, who ran the state Republican Party while Bush was governor and also mentored Rubio.  ”I think it’s Jeb Bush,” he said. Former Sen. George LeMieux, another Florida Republican, also declared Bush’s experience a trump card as well. ”You don’t get training wheels for the presidency. You need to be on the job and ready on Day 1,” he said.