 (CNN) Teenager Cole Hammer channeled the power of prayer to outscore old master Tiger Woods on the opening day of the 2015 U. S. Open Thursday. At just 15 years, nine months and 21 days old, Hammer is the   player to ever qualify for the U. S. Open.  Only China’s Andy Zhang, who was 14 when he played in 2012, and Tadd Fujikawa of Hawaii, who was 4 months younger than Hammer when he featured in 2006, have competed in the golf season’s second major at a more youthful age. And as the Texas amateur, who is still in high school, prepared to   at the Chambers Bay course in Washington, it appeared the weight of occasion might be getting to him. But the   Hammer later clarified he was praying and not shedding a tear before his big moment. ”I always pray right before my round on the first tee. And so, yeah, that’s all I was doing,” he told reporters, Hammer found the rough off his opening drive, but composed himself to miss out on a birdie by a matter of inches after a fantastic second shot. He went on to card a    77, leaving him 12 shots off   Dustin Johnson and Henrik Stenson.  Yet it was his early emotion that caught the attention of many on social media, with the some showing their support with the #HammerTime  . Hammer’s age and positive attitude had already drawn attention from some of his more seasoned peers during practice earlier in the week. Reigning U. S. Masters champion Jordan Spieth described him as ”unbelievably nice” after practicing with him while Woods reportedly said the youngster   his junior made him feel ”very old.” Tiger bombs again, Woods was once himself golf’s hottest young thing himself, of course, but recent weeks have seen him card the some of the worst rounds of his professional career.  The     hit 80 in the opening round for his   round at the U. S. Open and may now require a miracle to make Friday’s cut. Elsewhere on the course, Phil Mickelson’s quest to claim the only golf major missing from his collection started strongly. The popular American strode into an early lead but faded with three bogeys after the turn to card a   par 69. By comparison, Johnson only dropped a single shot all day, and that on the final hole, to card a     65. Stenson dropped two shots during the course of his round but carded seven birdies to Johnson’s six. Following a shot behind Johnson and Stenson after morning play is Patrick Reed while Matt Kuchar lies a further shot back at   par. Bubba Watson is part of an early chasing pack a few shots back at   that also includes Sergio Garcia and Adam Scott. Meanwhile, Rory McIlroy endured a frustrating opening round that finished with a    72. Read: The greatest comeback in the history of sport?