Washington (CNN) The President’s trade agenda scored a major victory Tuesday when the Senate voted to advance a bill to allow ” ” approval of large international trade bills.   The outcome of this key procedural vote had been in doubt as a group of 14   Democrats weighed whether to continue their support of the bill out of concern that a related workers’ assistance package might not pass both chambers. But after repeated assurances by GOP congressional leaders that workers’ assistance measure will be adopted, 13 out of 14 backed the bill. The vote was 60 to 37, passing by the slimmest margin needed to pass.  A final Senate vote on   could come as soon as later Tuesday, and it will then head to President Barack Obama’s desk for his signature. The vote was especially close as one Republican who supported the measure in the past  —   Texas Sen. Ted Cruz  —   said Tuesday morning he would now vote against it.  ”. .. TPA in this Congress has become enmeshed in corrupt Washington backroom   along with serious concerns that it would open up the potential for sweeping changes in our laws that trade agreements typically do not include,” Cruz wrote on Breitbart.  Republican Sen. Mike Enzi of Wyoming, who was absent during the first version of the bill, voted in favor, making up for the loss among GOP senators. RELATED: Hillary Clinton a ’no’ on   for now, The 14   Democrats who supported the first version of the   bill, known as Trade Promotion Authority, when it was packaged with a bill that provides retraining and other assistance to workers who lose their jobs because of large international trade agreements. That bill is called Trade Adjustment Authority.   Passage of the   authority and the workers’ assistance bill allows the President to complete a giant   Partnership trade deal, which would tie the economies of the U. S. Canada and Mexico with several Asian and Pacific nations. Such a deal would also give the U. S. increased influence in the region    a top priority for the White House. All the way up until the final vote, it was uncertain whether those Democrats would support the   bill separately from the workers’ assistance piece    as the new legislative strategy calls for    out of fear   workers’ assistance measure won’t get through the   Congress on its own. Trade Adjustment Authority is generally supported by Democrats    and unions    and opposed by Republicans. But in a recent legislative tactical move, House Democrats skeptical of   authority recently blocked the trade adjustment portion in hopes of scuttling the   bill. McConnell went to great lengths Monday to assure reluctant Democrats both bills would get to the President’s desk. ”I didn’t want anyone to think that we are getting ( ) done this week with a promise to get (trade adjustment) done at some later undefined point,” he said. ”The process this week is clear: We will vote on ( ) and then we will vote on (trade adjustment).” RELATED: House passes trade authority bill, Sen. Ron Wyden of Orego is a   of the   legislation, but held back his support until Monday in an effort to ensure trade adjustment portion and two other related bills will get through. He said he was able to convince Republican leaders to add a measure, supported by Democrats and some Republicans, that would boost U. S. steel companies. ”I held    discussions with the Senate majority leader, the speaker of the House and leading Democrats over the past week,” Wyden said. ”I plan to support the continued advancement of the trade package tomorrow.” Another, Sen. Dianne Feinstein,   said she would vote to advance the bill because expanded trade ”helps California and the country as a whole.” If the   authority bill reaches final passage, it would go directly to Obama for his signature, because the House already approved it. The Senate would then take up the worker assistance bill, which is attached to a popular Africa trade measure, with a key procedural vote expected Wednesday and final passage by Thursday. Assuming the trade adjustment measure passes the Senate, the bill would be sent to the House where Democrats would have to consider whether it still makes sense to defeat it. The last time, Democrats were motivated to vote it down in order to block the   authority. This time, that authority will already be on the President’s desk    if everything goes according to plan    so voting ”no” would only hurt the displaced workers Democrats say they want to help. House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi expressed skepticism on Friday that the bill providing assistance and training to displaced workers could move forward under the new legislative strategy.  ”I don’t see a path for (trade adjustment),” she said.  But other Democratic leaders, such as Rep. Steve Israel of New York, said recently it would be ”cutting off our noses to spite our face,” if they voted against the Trade Adjustment Authority at this point.  ”It’s cutting off noses of working people,” he said. If the Senate approves the trade adjustment bill, a vote in the House is expected by Friday.