 (CNN) The decisions that directly affect the safety of airline customers originate from my office (at the pointy end of the airplane). The decisions that directly affect the satisfaction of airline customers originate from offices outside the airplane. As pilots, most times we resign ourselves to the fact that we must trust the other offices to make appropriate decisions. On some days, well . .. we raise our eyebrows. When the  International Air Transport Association recommended a reduction in   bag dimensions last week, it was one of those times.  I get the logic. When the airlines first became slaves to the almighty Department of Transportation’s documentation of   arrivals and departures in January 1995, it became important to be the carrier with the best record between New York and Chicago, between Washington and Boston    between wherever. At first, it was a, ”Damn the torpedoes, full speed ahead!” attitude.  Airplanes were being pushed back from the gate with passengers standing in the aisles while flight attendants scampered about helping to shove overstuffed   into overstuffed overhead bins. The Federal Aviation Administration wasn’t pleased, and in response began to strictly enforce the regulation that required all   bags be stowed before closing the entry doors. The adjustment period was difficult. Invariably, when ground personnel had the airplane all closed up and ready to go at the gate, I would get an intercom call from the flight attendants with the standard script of, ”Captain, we still have passengers standing in the aisle.” Our cabin crew would then make frantic efforts to help wrestle bags into overhead bins. An   departure was the Holy Grail. Although the cabin crews have adjusted to the routine, it can still be a difficult process. Revenue generation aside, airline management has helped to create the problem by charging to check bags. Who wouldn’t want to stuff a little extra into their   to save on the cost of an   bag? Storage space can become a premium on crowded flights. But as opponents to the   IATA proposal have said, we shouldn’t penalize our customers further by forcing them to shrink their   and pay for extra luggage for a problem the airline generated. With the proposal shot down, what is the solution, then?  Well, a     airplane goes a long way in mitigating the problem. Unfortunately, a     aircraft is not conducive to efficient movement. The typical instruction the flight attendants give to step out of the aisle and let other people pass behind does not necessarily allow for rapid storage of items in the overhead bins. Some airlines have given   priority to passengers without   bags. Others have begun trials with a   process where airline personnel store your   above your seat in an overhead bin before boarding. And if your bag doesn’t fit and you’re at the   of the boarding process, it just has to be checked to your destination. Sorry.  Certainly, greater minds than mine can come up with more innovative solutions. And by the way, I measured my   bag. The bag is designed specifically for airline crewmembers. It’s 1 inch over the length limit, 1 inch over the width limit and a good 3 inches over the depth limit of the IATA recommendation.   As a   airline veteran, I’ll proclaim myself a traveling professional. Granted, if I’m flying the trip, my   have a designated spot either in the cockpit or the cabin. But other times, I am on equal footing with passengers, making me just as invested in what airline management chooses to do next in regard to   luggage. I’d rather not see my passengers opt for Amtrak, or worse, their own automobiles. Please, let’s find a better solution to the   bag conundrum. Comparing airline travel to the dentist chair shouldn’t be the norm. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook. .  Read CNNOpinion’s Flipboard magazine. 