LUMBERTON, N. C.  —   Brittany Graham had been confident that Hurricane Matthew would bring no more than a few inches of rain to this inland city. But by Sunday afternoon, her grandfather’s small farm was underwater. A grazing field was submerged. No one knew where most of the cows were. Floodwaters, perhaps three or four feet deep in some places, had covered the wheels of two trucks and flowed into a supply barn. Relatives squealed as they watched fish from the family’s pond swim across the road. “My grandpa’s still in shock,” Ms. Graham, 29, said. “He didn’t prepare anything because from what we heard, we were just going to get a little bit of rain. Basically, all his stuff is ruined. ” “This,” she added, “is completely devastating. ” Here in Lumberton, and in much of eastern North Carolina on Sunday, residents were taking stock after Hurricane Matthew pounded the state over the weekend with a furor that seemed improbable days earlier. North Carolina officials reported eight deaths, a figure that accounted for nearly half of the hurricane’s death toll in the United States, and Gov. Pat McCrory warned that the casualty count was “expected to increase. ” “I wouldn’t assume that there aren’t people clinging for life right now in houses that are underwater that we have yet to reach, especially in lower populated areas,” Mr. McCrory said. “That’s what my major concern is. ” Still, dozens of boat and aircrews rescued more than 1, 000 people, more than 700 of them in Cumberland County, which includes Fayetteville and Fort Bragg. The state also had countless informal evacuations and rescues, strung together by residents and visitors who sometimes acted with little warning. Melissa Fineman, the general manager of a Comfort Suites hotel in coastal Brunswick County, had retreated to her room on Saturday night when she heard creaking in the building, which was filled with evacuees and linemen from a local utility company. “The pressure and the gusts just started cracking the walls,” she said. “With each gust of wind, it just got wider and wider. ” Ms. Fineman decided to empty the hotel. After a    effort that she said took just minutes, the property’s 123 guests, and their 45 animals, had escaped through a back stairwell, ultimately fleeing to a nearby high school and escaping the wrath of a storm that once seemed poised to spare this state. But the havoc in North Carolina was an unwelcome reminder of both the inherently deceiving nature of the   Hurricane Wind Scale  —   the storm was barely classified as a Category 1 hurricane when its bands hit North Carolina  —   and the    behavior of a tropical cyclone. As recently as Thursday, when forecasters were predicting that Hurricane Matthew would leave North Carolina mostly unscathed, Mr. McCrory said he was “cautiously optimistic” about the storm. Then the hurricane shifted, losing power but maintaining moisture and taking aggressive aim at much of North Carolina’s   coastline and the state’s inland counties. Some areas recorded more than a foot of rain, and by Sunday morning, Mr. McCrory and his constituents were lamenting an increasingly dire landscape of devastation. “When you go from a Category 4 hurricane to a Category 1, the danger of harm is still there,” Mr. McCrory said. “What those categories don’t include is how water can kill. ” In North Carolina on Sunday, more than 3, 000 people were in shelters, and some 770, 000 homes and businesses were without electricity. Parts of Interstate 40 and Interstate 95 were closed, and the authorities warned that more trouble was to come as rain poured into rivers and raced toward the coast. Some local governments ordered evacuations and curfews. The National Weather Service, which said that many of its river gauges in eastern North Carolina showed major flooding, predicted that the Lumber River would remain above record levels until at least Friday. In Rocky Mount, the Tar River was expected to surpass its record height by nearly three feet. And near Goldsboro, the Neuse River was forecast to reach 29. 6 feet on Monday, nearly a foot above its record. “That’s always the trouble in eastern North Carolina  —   because the saturation tables are so low, the water doesn’t have anywhere to go,” said the Rev. William J. Barber II, the president of the North Carolina chapter of the N. A. A. C. P. and a pastor of a church in Goldsboro. “We’re downstream. If a storm drops a lot of rain in the Raleigh area, it comes down like a wall this way. ” In Florida, Georgia and South Carolina on Sunday, residents turned much of their attention to recovery as people removed trees, cleared roadways and increasingly found their electricity restored. People in coastal communities who had heeded orders to evacuate returned to their homes to survey the damage, often trading text messages and pictures with one another to share what they had found. Gov. Nikki R. Haley of South Carolina, citing requests from local officials, maintained evacuation orders in two counties, but she allowed people to return to Charleston, the state’s   city, and its surrounding area. “The weather looks good next week, which is a great sign as we want to try and do the recovery, so that’s the one blessing that we do have,” Ms. Haley said. And here in North Carolina, residents were girding for a hard recovery in places like Hope Mills, where Marie Pelkey, 42, stared through the trees at her younger sister’s waterlogged home. “She’s probably lost everything,” Ms. Pelkey said, her face flushing as tears rolled past her thick black sunglasses. A neighbor, Cathy Swain, walked over to wrap Ms. Pelkey in her arms. She, too, knew the extent of the devastation and how it rivaled the destruction of previous storms. “Major roads are washed out,” she said. “Bridges are gone. I’ve been here 53 years. I was here through Fran, Floyd  —   never seen anything like this. It’s going to take a long time. ” She added, “I’ve never seen the Walmart closed. ”