 (CNN) It’s been more than 10 years since Shirley Reine was found dead in her Falmouth, Massachusetts, home.  Watch ”Murder on Cape Cod: Who Shot Shirley Reine?” Wednesday, September 2, at 9 p. m. ET. She had been shot just days before she was going to face her stepsons, Todd and Melvin Jr. in court over who would control the family’s lucrative   business. Shirley came from a family that was no stranger to law enforcement. Her husband, Melvin, who died in 2013, was a convicted arsonist who was suspected, although never charged, in a number of other serious crimes. John Rams Jr. a Wareham resident with a lengthy criminal record, went on trial for Shirley’s killing and was acquitted in 2014. Rams told CNN’s Randi Kaye that Todd Reine had asked him to kill Shirley and he declined. Todd Reine has not spoken publicly about Shirley Reine’s death, and the Reine brothers have never faced any charges in connection with the killing. A CNN special report, ”Murder on Cape Cod: Who Shot Shirley Reine? ,” explores this murder mystery and the legacy of the Reine family. It airs Wednesday, September 2, at 9 p. m. ET. Shirley’s case remains unsolved. Take a look at some other Massachusetts cases that have gone cold: ’Lady of the Dunes’ On July 26, 1974, the body of an unidentified white female was found in Provincetown. It’s believed the victim, known as the ”Lady of the Dunes,” died from a blow to the head. One side of her skull was crushed, her hands were missing and she was nearly decapitated, according to Provincetown police. The victim was estimated to have been between 20 and 40 years old.  Her body has been exhumed multiple times, but her identity and that of her killer remain unknown.  Sarah Pryor, Sarah Pryor went missing in 1985 when she was just 9 years old. Pryor was abducted while walking near her Wayland home. Fragments of her skull were discovered more than a decade later, but the rest of her remains were never found. Her killing remains unsolved. Wayland police Chief Robert Irving said that although there have been some suspects, there hasn’t been enough evidence to bring any criminal charges. Susan Taraskiewicz, On September 13, 1992, Susan Taraskiewicz went to get lunch for a few of her Northwest Airlines   in Boston. She was never seen alive again, according to CNN affiliate WCVB. The next day, her body was found in the trunk of her car outside of an automotive body shop in Revere. In a video posted on the Massachusetts State Police’s YouTube channel last year, Susan’s mother, Marlene, demanded justice. ”Our family not only lost Susan, but our family was destroyed,” she said.  Holly Piirainen, Holly Piirainen was abducted when was visiting her grandmother’s house in Sturbridge in 1993. She went for a walk to look at puppies and never returned. She was 10 at the time. One of her shoes was found on the side of the road where she was abducted, and three months later her body was found in a wooded area in the neighboring town of Brimfield. In 2012, authorities cited a ”very significant lead,” linking a dead man to the case through forensic testing, but they said the man was not considered a suspect. Deanna Cremin, Deanna Cremin was killed on March 30, 1995. Her body was found four days after her birthday behind a senior living complex. The    Somerville High School students was strangled, according to local media reports. Karina Holmer, Karina Holmer, 20, left her home in Sweden to be an au pair for a Dover family. On June 23, 1996, she visited a popular nightclub in Boston with friends. Parts of her body were later found in a black trash bag in  a dumpster behind the club.  Molly Bish, Molly Bish worked as a lifeguard in Warren. Bish’s mother, Magi, dropped her off for work on the morning of June 27, 2000, and the    was never seen alive again. A short time later, another mother arrived at the beach with her children in tow. She found Molly’s backpack, lifeguard chair and beach towel. Her   kit was wide open on a bench. But Molly was nowhere to be seen. Her remains and a portion of her bathing suit were found three years later. Bish was buried on what would have been her 20th birthday. Gail Miles, Gail Miles, a former Watertown police officer, was found dead in her home after being beaten on December 3, 2011. Miles, 61, was the police department’s first black police officer. She worked there for 20 years before retiring in 2004.  Geraldine and John Magee, Geraldine and John Magee were found dead in their Andover mansion on December 14, 2011. The two were shot. The night before, their Lexus SUV was found on fire in Boston. Police described the incident as an isolated act. No suspects have been named.