The messengers showed up in Bushwick, Brooklyn, on Sunday, laying their bicycles flat in the middle of Waterbury Street, then stepping back as someone distributed photocopied manifests, the term used for a list of pickups and deliveries. At 2:23 p. m. a man shouted “Go!” and they were off, about 70 men and women charging back to their bicycles, grabbing them, then speeding away to start the North American Cycle Courier Championship, a contest designed to test abilities honed over years of messenger runs. There are about 5, 000 bike messengers in New York City, more than any place else in the country, and the city has been the site of countless unsanctioned races, called alley cats, with names like Cranksgiving and Rumble Thru Da Bronx. But this was the first time the continental championship, which dates to 1998, was held in New York. Messengers are known for a brash, adrenalized approach to their work, threading through traffic at dizzying speeds and often treating red lights as mere suggestions. Occupational hazards include barreling trucks, barely visible potholes and taxi doors flinging open without warning. Messengers in the city typically earn $10 to $20 per trip, based mainly on the distance they travel and how fast they cover it. Speed is important, of course, but so is the ability to prioritize runs, calculate routes and navigate building security measures that could lengthen a trip. The race on Sunday was meant to mirror a day in the life of a working messenger  —   except for the absence of cars and trucks, which were blocked by police barricades from the course’s   area. Participants chose from dozens of trips between 11 checkpoints. Those trips, listed on the manifests, included standard and rush deliveries of envelopes, boxes and tubes, with varying values assigned. Software created by a former messenger kept track of the trips and electronic earnings, occasionally throwing in an intentional setback for the sake of verisimilitude. The aim of the race was to complete as many lucrative trips as possible within the allotted time whoever accumulated the highest dollar amount would be declared the winner. Participants faced some of the same risks present during actual runs. Slick streets could cause crashes. Frustration over a bit of bad luck could result in a loss of focus. Rudeness to checkpoint volunteers playing the part of receptionists or mailroom clerks could carry a penalty, in this case disqualification. “Being fast is secondary to being smart in this race,” said Josh Weitzner, a race organizer and an owner of Samurai Messenger Service in the city. Another organizer, Austin Horse, who works with Flash Courier in New York and won the previous two North American championships, which were held in Minneapolis and Denver, said success often depended upon the ability to scan a manifest quickly, identify the most profitable runs and keep track of which pickup and   trips could be effectively combined. “This is maybe the only cycling competition where a highlighter is performance equipment,” Mr. Horse said. Racers came from across the United States, Canada and Mexico. There were also some from outside North America, though they were not eligible to win. They included visitors from Colombia, Denmark, Germany, Scotland and Switzerland. Many participants said they came to New York as much for the camaraderie as for the competition. For days before the race, groups of messengers cycled through Brooklyn, visiting bicycle shops and bars. On Saturday night, more than 100 messengers met in a schoolyard in Bushwick, Brooklyn, and voted to hold the 2018 championship in Philadelphia. (The 2017 race was already scheduled for Milwaukee.) Afterward, a group of women met to discuss their experiences as messengers in a field dominated by men. “You definitely have to prove that you’re as good as everyone else and then that you’re better,” Kelly Pennington, a member of the Chasseurs Courrier collective in Montreal, said. “Being mediocre isn’t really an option. ” On Sunday, Ms. Pennington and the other competitors sped through wet streets with boxes crammed into backpacks and shoulder bags. They chained their bikes at each checkpoint so spectators would not simulate a theft by moving an unlocked bike. On occasion, messengers asked for a package at a checkpoint only to receive a message, generated by the race software and communicated by a volunteer, that the desired package was not yet ready for pickup. As the race ended just after 5 p. m. the software tabulated the results, revealing the winner to be Christina Peck of San Francisco. Cyclists milled on Waterbury Street afterward, discussing aspects of the race. Erick Setterlund, an independent New York messenger, said the course had provided visitors with an accurate example of what it was like to ride locally. “There were old rail lines, lots of drains and manholes, plenty of potholes to look out for,” he said. “That’s just the way it is around here. ”