Four days after the explosive Donald J. Trump “Access Hollywood” tape was made public, Billy Bush was negotiating his exit from NBC. Mr. Bush and NBC are working out the terms of his departure from “Today,” which may come in the next few days, according to two people briefed on the plans. It would be a swift fall for Mr. Bush after a brief tenure as a host in the 9 a. m. hour of the show. He joined “Today” this summer. In the videotape from 2005, which was filmed during the taping of an “Access Hollywood” segment, Mr. Bush laughs and goads Mr. Trump as he speaks about women in vulgar and lewd terms, claiming he tried to have sex with the woman who was then Mr. Bush’s  . Mr. Bush, 44, apologized on Friday evening, and throughout the weekend NBC officials maintained they had no plans to discipline him. As late as Sunday morning, the plan was for Mr. Bush go on “Today” on Monday and address the controversy, saying something along the lines of the statement he released on Friday, in which he said he was “ashamed. ’’ But the backlash was significant. Mr. Bush’s Facebook page was deluged with thousands of angry comments. Two women that Mr. Bush and Mr. Trump discussed in the tape  —   the former “Access Hollywood” host Nancy O’Dell and the “Days of Our Lives” actress Arianne Zucker  —   released statements over the weekend expressing their disappointment. Given the tape’s incredible visibility, it was likely that Mr. Bush would remain part of the news cycle for the near future. “Today” is in competition with ABC’s “Good Morning America” and the fallout from the videotape could have affected NBC’s ratings in the morning hours, particularly among women, who represent a significant portion of the show’s viewership. By Sunday night, NBC had suspended Mr. Bush. Noah Oppenheim, the executive in charge of “Today,” told his staff in an email, “there is simply no excuse for Billy’s language and behavior on that tape. ” NBC News officials also learned in recent days that at the Olympic Games this summer, Mr. Bush bragged to some staff members about a videotape involving bad behavior by Mr. Trump. The New York Post first reported this on Monday night. “Access Hollywood” personalities like Natalie Morales, Kit Hoover and Nina Parker have offered Mr. Bush support this week (“The Billy that I know  —   and a lot of people would say this  —   has the biggest heart of anybody and he is a good person,” Ms. Hoover said) but few other people have defended him. Complicating matters, Mr. Bush did not have a particularly warm relationship with many of the other stars of “Today. ” That point was underscored in August when Mr. Bush landed what looked to be the scoop of the Olympics: The first   interview with the swimmer Ryan Lochte as he described being robbed at gunpoint in Rio de Janeiro. As Mr. Lochte’s story disintegrated in the following days, Mr. Bush was hesitant to condemn him. During a segment of “Today,” Mr. Bush contended that Mr. Lochte “lied about some details. ” Al Roker quickly stepped in to dress down his colleague, saying pointedly, “Billy, not some details,” before adding, “He lied. ”