’  ’ ’   A North Carolina judge on Friday temporarily blocked a state law   hours after incoming Democratic Governor Roy Cooper sued to void     legislation lessening his control over state   and county elections boards, local media reported. ’ ’   Cooper’’s transition team described the measure, which would have   abolished the current state elections board on Sunday, when he   will be sworn in during a private ceremony, as ”unconstitutional   legislative overreach.” ’ ”   The law, enacted by the state’s   legislature   during a special session this month, calls for the governor and   legislature to appoint four members each to a new board evenly   split between Republicans and Democrats. Previously, governors   appointed a majority of members. ” ”   The measure also replaces   county elections boards,   where the sitting governor’s party had the majority, with     boards made up of two Republicans and two Democrats   each. ” ’   A temporary restraining order issued by a Wake County Superior   Court judge will stop the law from taking effect on Sunday,   WRAL. com reported. ’ ’  ’ ”   Cooper’s lawsuit argues that the changes violate the state   constitution’s separation of powers requirements by shifting   control from the executive agency responsible for administering   election laws to legislators, according to media reports. ” ”   The law was among a series of measures approved during a special   session in   to curtail Cooper’s executive authority   before he succeeds outgoing Republican Governor Pat McCrory. ” ’   ”This complex new law passed in just two days by the Republican   legislature is unconstitutional and anything but bipartisan,”   Cooper said in a statement. ”A tie on a partisan vote would   accomplish what many Republicans want: making it harder for North   Carolinians to vote.” ’ ’   McCrory, who trailed Cooper by about 10, 000 votes when he   conceded the race nearly four weeks after the Nov. 8 election,   and other Republican leaders have argued the new elections law   would help ensure a fair voting process. ’ ”   Senate leader Phil Berger on Friday criticized Cooper’s legal   action. ” ’   ”Roy Cooper’s effort to stop the creation of a bipartisan board   with an equal number of Democrats and Republicans to enforce   elections and ethics laws may serve his desire to preserve his   own political power, but it does not serve the best interests of   our state,” Berger said in a statement. ’ ’   (Editing by Steve Orlofsky) ’