’  ’ ”   ISTANBUL (AP)  —   An assailant believed to have been dressed in a   Santa Claus costume opened fire at a crowded nightclub in   Istanbul during New Year’s celebrations, killing at least 39   people and wounding close to 70 others in what the province’s   governor described as a terror attack. ” ’   Gov. Vasip Sahin said the attacker, armed with a     weapon, killed a policeman and a civilian outside the club at   around 1:15 a. m. Sunday before entering and firing on people   partying inside. He did not say who may have carried out the   attack. ’ ’   ”Unfortunately (he) rained bullets in a very cruel and merciless   way on innocent people who were there to celebrate New Year’’s and   have fun,” Sahin told reporters. ’ ”   Private NTV news channel said the assailant entered the Reina   nightclub, in Istanbul’s Ortakoy district, dressed in a Santa   Claus outfit. ” ’   Interior Minister Suleyman Soylu said the man was still on the   run, adding: ”efforts to find the terrorist are continuing.” ’ ’   ”Our security forces have started the necessary operations. God   willing he will be caught in a short period of time,” the   minister said. ’ ’   At least 15 of the dead were foreign nationals, Soylu said,   without providing information on their nationalities. Five of the   victims were identified as Turkish nationals while authorities   were still trying to identify the rest of the victims. At least   69 people were being treated in hospitals, four in serious   condition, Soylu said. ’ ’   Three or four of the Turkish victims may have been employees at   the nightclub, he said. ’ ’   ”This was a massacre, a truly inhuman savagery,” Soylu said. ’ ’     ’ ’  ’ ’   The minister said the attacker was believed to have left the club   wearing ”different clothing” to those he entered the club in. He   said the attacker is believed to have carried out the assault   alone. ’ ’   ”Four of the injured are in very serious condition,” said Health   Minister Recep Akdag. ”There are several foreign nationals among   the wounded.” ’ ’   Some customers jumped into the waters of the Bosporus to escape   the attack, the report said. ’ ’   Sinem Uyanik was inside the club with her husband who was wounded   in the attack. ’ ’   ”Before I could understand what was happening, my husband fell on   top me,” she said outside Istanbul’’s Sisli Etfal Hospital.   ”I had to lift several bodies from top of me before I could   get out. It was frightening.” Her husband was not in serious   condition despite sustaining three wounds.  ’ ’   Police with riot gear and machine guns backed up by armored   vehicles blocked the area close to the Reina nightclub, one of   the most popular night spots in Istanbul. Several ambulances   flashing blue lights arrived on the scene, some taking wounded to   hospitals. ’ ’   The White House condemned what it called a ”horrific terrorist   attack” and offered U. S. help to Turkey. ’ ’   White House spokesman Eric Schultz said President Barack Obama   was briefed on the attack by his national security team and asked   to be updated as the situation developed. Obama is vacationing in   Hawaii this week with his family. ’ ’   National Security Council spokesman Ned Price said the attack on   ”innocent revelers” celebrating New Year’’s shows the attackers’’   savagery. ’ ’   ”Our thoughts are with victims and their loved ones. We continue   to work to prevent these tragedies,” European Union foreign   policy chief Federica Mogherini tweeted. ’ ’     ’ ’  ’ ’   NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said on Twitter: ”Tragic   start to 2017 in Istanbul. My thoughts are with those affected by   the attack on people celebrating New Year and with the Turkish   people.” ’ ’   An estimated 600 people were celebrating inside the club that is   also frequented by famous locals, including singers, actors and   sports stars. Several shocked revelers were seen fleeing the   scene after the attack and the music fell silent. ’ ’   The country has been rocked by a series of deadly attacks in 2016   carried out by the Islamic State group or Kurdish militants,   killing more than 180 people. ’ ’   On Dec. 10, a double bomb attack outside soccer stadium  —   located   near the Reina nightclub  —   killed 44 people and wounded 149   others. The attack was claimed by   Kurdish militant   group, the Kurdish Freedom Falcons. Nine days later, an     Turkish riot policeman assassinated Russian Ambassador Andrei   Karlov at a photo exhibition in the capital, Ankara. The   government has suggested that a movement led U. S.  Muslim   cleric Fethullah Gulen was behind the killing  —   an accusation the   cleric has denied. ’ ’   Justice Minister Bekir Bozdag vowed that Turkey would press ahead   with its fight against violent groups. ’ ’   ”Turkey will continue its determined and effective combat to root   out terror,” Bozdag said on Twitter. ’ ”   Security measures had been heightened in major Turkish cities,   with police barring traffic leading up to key squares in Istanbul   and the capital Ankara. In Istanbul, 17, 000 police officers were   put on duty, some camouflaged as Santa Claus and others as street   vendors, Turkey’s Anadolu news agency reported.  ” ’   ___ ’ ’   Associated Press writers Dusan Stojanovic and Mehmet Guzel in   Istanbul and Suzan Fraser in Ankara, Turkey contributed to this   report. ’