’  ’ ”   If you ask Tim Ferriss what his New Year’s resolution is,   he’ll tell you he doesn’t believe in them. ” ’   But that’’s not to say ”” author and ””   podcast host doesn’’t have a collection of ambitious goals. ’ ’ about his new book ”,” he recently explained to Business   Insider that his   philosophy is built upon a   quote attributed to the ancient Greek poet Archilochus: ”We don’’t   rise to the level of our expectations; we fall to the level of   our training.” ’ ”   That is, while individuals may have different innate talents, the   world’s most successful people have always been those who develop   skills and instincts through countless hours of practice. ” ”   To apply this to an example New Year’s resolution: You’re   not going to be able to run a marathon by year’s end on sheer   optimism alone  —   you’re going to have to make sacrifices in your   personal life that allow you to rack up hundreds of miles over   several months and seek out proper guidance to ensure you won’t   be sidelined by an injury. ” ’   This isn’’t to say you need to aim low in order to be ”realistic.” ’ ’   ”I would say that you can have unrealistic goals  —   according to   other people  —   as long as they are specific, measurable, and you   have timelines,” Ferriss said. ”I would also say that my tendency   is to treat my whole life as a series of   experiments, or     projects.” ’ ”   Ferriss said that when he develops these experiments or projects,   he goes in with the understanding that some will fail. But that’s   preferable to embarking only on guaranteed successes that   inevitably only use a limited amount of your potential. ” ’   ”If you’’re swinging for home runs you’’re going to strike out, and   I prefer to swing for the home runs,” Ferriss said. ’ ”   He also sees these goals as parts of a larger context enhanced by   daily habits. He said his own habits include  in which he records what he’s grateful   for,  and fashioning a . Ferriss will write down whatever   comes to his mind and then determine which of them must be   completed that day. ” ’   ”That’’s how I find these dominoes that will knock over the   others,” he said. ’ ’   Watch the full Facebook Live Q&A below. ’ ’ ’