’  ’ ’   CHICAGO (AP)  —   One of the most violent years in Chicago history   ended Sunday with a sobering tally: 762 homicides, the most in   two decades and more than New York and Los Angeles combined. ’ ”   The nation’s third largest city also saw 1, 100 more shooting   incidents than it did in 2015, according to statistics released   by the Chicago Police Department that underlined a story of   bloodshed that has put Chicago at the center of a national   dialogue about gun violence. ” ”   The numbers released Sunday are staggering, even for those   following the steady news accounts of weekends ending with dozens   of shootings and monthly death tolls that hadn’t been seen in   years. The increase in 2016 homicides compared to 2015, when 485   were reported, is the largest spike in 60 years. ” ’   Police and city officials have lamented the flood of illegal guns   into the city, and the crime statistics appeared to support their   claims: Police recovered 8, 300 illegal guns in 2015, a 20 percent   from the previous year. ’ ”   The bulk of the deaths and shooting incidents, which jumped from   2, 426 in 2015 to 3, 550 last year, occurred in only five   neighborhoods on the city’s South and West sides, all poor and   predominantly black areas where gangs are most active. Police   said the shootings in those areas generally wasn’t random, with   more than 80 percent of the victims having previously been   identified by police as more susceptible because of their gang   ties or past arrests. ” ’   Chicago Police Superintendent Eddie Johnson was expected to   discuss the newly released statistics Sunday afternoon. ’ ’  ’ ’   The city has scrambled to address the violence. Mayor Rahm   Emanuel announced last year that 1, 000 officers would be added to   the police department. At the same time, police officials have   been trying to figure out why homicides and shootings  —   which   began climbing the year before  —   suddenly surged. ’ ’   Johnson has said several factors contributed to the increased   violence. He noted 2016 was the first full year since the city   was forced in November 2015 to release video of the fatal police   shooting of    Laquan McDonald, who was black and shot   16 times by a white police officer. The video cost former Police   Superintendent Garry McCarthy his job, sparked major protests   around the city, and led to federal and state investigations of   the department. ’ ’   It also left Johnson with the task of trying to restore public   trust in what appeared to be a weakened police force, a   perception that was only buttressed by a dramatic drop in the   number of arrests in 2016. ’ ’   While the police department has cited several factors for the   declining numbers, including a concerted effort not to make minor   drug arrests and focus on gun violence, Johnson acknowledged in a   recent interview with The Associated Press that officers have   become more cautious  —   in part out of fear of becoming the next   ”viral video.” ’ ’   That, he said, has ”emboldened” criminals. ’ ’   ”Criminals watch TV, pay attention to the media,” he said. ”They   see an opportunity to commit nefarious activity.” ’