’  ’ ”   NEW YORK (Reuters)   Grammy   singer Mariah Carey   shrugged off a botched New Year’s Eve show in New York’s Times   Square, telling fans and critics on Sunday that life does not   always go as planned. ” ’   ”    happens,” Carey, the world’’s   female singer,   wrote on Twitter. ”Have a happy and healthy new year everybody!   Here’’s to making more headlines in 2017.” ’ ’   Carey, named the Grammy’’s Best New Artist in 1991, was the final   musical act on ABC’’s ”Dick Clark’’s New Year’’s Rockin’’ Eve with   Ryan Seacrest,” taking the stage just before midnight. ’ ’   In addition to the television audience, the program was watched   in person by the hundreds of thousands of people who gathered in   what is called the ”Crossroads of the World” to mark the   beginning of 2017. ’ ’   Carey’’s opening song, a rendition of Robert Burns’’ ”Auld Lang   Syne,” seemed to go as planned. But then the singer, surrounded   by dancers and a sea of humanity, appeared flustered and   complained of technical difficulties. ’ ’   ”We can’’t hear,” she said, as the music from her 1991 hit song   ”Emotions” began to play. ”It is what it is,” she said. ”Let the   audience sing, OK?” ’ ’   But the awkwardness persisted, prompting Carey to say: ”I want a   holiday, too. Can I not have one? I’’m trying to be a good sport   here.” ’ ’   The next song, ”We Belong Together,” Carey’’s 2005 hit, went awry   as well. Carey dropped her   microphone to her side and   the song went on playing, revealing that she may have been only   syncing her lips to the words. ’ ’   ”It just don’’t get any better,” a frustrated Carey said after the   song. ’ ’ ’ ”   After the debacle, some fans came to Carey’s defense on Twitter,   while others were less than kind. Several tweets compared her to   the disgraced pop duo Milli Vanilli, who lost their Grammy for   Best New Artist in 1990 when it emerged they had never sung on   their records. ” ’   A spokesman for ABC declined to comment. ’ ’     ’ ’   (Reporting by David Ingram; Editing by Alan Crosby) ’