’  ’ ”   Finland has an ambitious New Year’s resolution in mind:   learn how offering free money for two years helps the unemployed   get back to work. ” ’   Starting January 1, 2017 and lasting until 2019, the federal   social security institution Kela will distribute roughly $590   each month to 2, 000 jobless Finns. ’ ”   Regardless of whether they find work during that period, the   money will keep coming in at the beginning of each month  —   a   trial version of basic income, one of the past year’s most   popular theories of how to solve poverty. ” ’   Under universal basic income (UBI) people receive a standard   amount of money just for being alive. By handing out the money to   everyone, regardless of their income status, UBI advocates say   the system prevents people from falling through the cracks. ’ ”   Marjukka Turunen, head of Kela’s legal benefits unit, says the   experiment in Finland should provide insights on two fronts. ” ’’ ”   The first is whether basic income could help clean up Finland’s   messy system of social security. Depending on their specific   needs, Turunen says residents could be on one of 40   different benefit systems. Each   benefit  whether it’s for someone who’s   sick, unemployed, a student, or so onis   calculated differently and must be changed when the person’s   status changes. ” ’   ”That’’s really a burden for customers and Kela to do all those   status changes,” Turunen tells Business Insider. A form of basic   income could mean people just need to apply for one status   indefinitely, no changes required. ’ ”   The experiment will also provide clues about how people   behave when they’re receiving free money. Skeptics say people   will sit on their couch all day. Proponents claim they’ll   actually use the money to make their lives better. (Limited   evidence  suggests it’s more of the   latter.) ” ”   Turunen suspects the experiment will compel at least a few   wannabe entrepreneurs to make the leap into starting their own   business  —   a risky proposition in Finland today since   business owners who are forced to close shop don’t receive   unemployment benefits. It’s not unlike the  in most US states. ” ’   ”The system nowadays, it’’s pretty negative for people who try to   do something  —   even little  —   in their lives and get something out   of it,” she says. ’ ’   A basic income might turn a risky move into a much safer one. ’ ”   Turunen doesn’t expect the trial to lead to larger basic income   studies in Finland. The current experiment is   and in a   small country like Finland the cost would be too great. ” ’   But other   experiments are picking up the slack.   Basic income is part of government conversations in Canada,   India, and the Netherlands. A  run by the Silicon Valley firm Y Combinator is   soon launching in Oakland, California, and the charity   GiveDirectly has launched a massive  ’ ’   Turunen, for her part, expects basic income to continue gaining   in popularity if the data from those experiments keeps coming   back positive.  ’ ’   ”Some people might stay on their couches, and some might go to   work,” she says. ”We don’’t know yet.” ’