’  ’ ’   ”Jersey Shore” star Nicole ”Snooki” Polizzi wasn’’t sure what she   would be in for if she signed on to the new season of NBC’’s   ”Celebrity Apprentice,” which premieres Monday at 8 p. m. ’ ’   ”I’m not really into competition,” Polizzi, who’’s now a married   mother of two children, told Business Insider recently. ”I like   to just go, have fun, meet friends, then go home, so [”Celebrity   Apprentice”] was sort of out of my comfort zone.” ’ ’   Polizzi is no stranger to reality shows. ’ ’   Along with  for the     lifestyle of its young adult cast and perceived     stereotypes, ”Jersey Shore” was  ever. At its peak   in 2011, nearly nine million people tuned into its third season.   Polizzi was its standout star and went on to have her own MTV   spinoff, ”Snooki & JWOWW,” competed on ABC’’s ”Dancing   With the Stars,” and appeared on other cable reality shows. But   ”Apprentice” is a different animal for Polizzi. ’ ’   ”I had never even watched the show before. I had heard of it, but   I never figured I’d be on it,” Polizzi, 29, said. ”So when they   did ask me to be on the show, I kind of had to watch the season   before because I didn’t know what to expect.” ’ ”   Polizzi wasn’t alone. Donald Trump, who hosted the business   competition reality show for seven seasons since it debuted   in 2004, threw a wrench in the works when he announced his   presidential run in June 2015. ” ’  ’ ’   Slammed with protests over remarks Trump made about Mexican   immigrants during his speech,    which was partially owned by the real estate mogul at the time.   The network also said it was cutting business ties with Trump,   which reportedly included removing him as host of    ”Apprentice” (). Since then, it   has come to light that the   . ’ ”   Nevertheless, NBC announced movie star and former California   Governor  as its new host in September 2015  —   a   major factor in Polizzi’s decision to join the cast. ” ’   ”It was for a great cause. I can’t say no to that,” Polizzi, who   chose to play for the  because of its   dedication to   pet adoption shelters, told us. ”And also   I’m a huge fan of Arnold. So it was kind of a   you   know, just try it out and see how it goes.” ’ ’   NBC has held details of Schwarzenegger’’s ”Apprentice” close to   the vest, especially his version of Trump’’s famous ”You’’re fired”   dismissal tagline. Polizzi, though, gave us a sense of how the   movie star compares to the  . ’ ’   ”I feel that Arnold has his own way of managing us,” the reality   star said. ”Arnold’s boardroom is way more terrifying than   Trump’s, because he’s ‘The Terminator,’ so it just made it that   much scarier. He definitely brought his own vibe to it.” ’ ’  ’ ’   ”He’s definitely a hardworking, tough boss,” she continued   of  ”but he criticizes you in a   good way in order to help you and give you advice on how to do it   better. Even though he’s scary and it’s intimidating to be in   front of him in the boardroom, he’ll always kind of lift you up   with his criticism. So he wasn’t like a bad, mean boss, but his   mannerisms and him being him made it scary.” ’ ’   Polizzi’’s goal going into the show was to ”learn more about   myself and business.” Though she can’’t reveal how well she   did on the competition, she did say that she learned a lot from   the ”crazy,” sometimes grueling   tasks on the competition. ’ ’   ”I have to be more assertive when it comes to making decisions,”   she said of what she learned during ”Apprentice.” ”Even in my own   business ventures, sometimes I’m not as bossy as I should be   because I care about people’s feelings and I don’t want to hurt   their feelings. So I just realized that it’s business and it’s   not personal.” ’