’  ’ ’   In an abrupt reversal Tuesday afternoon, House Republicans   dropped a proposal to gut an ethics office overseeing them, after   coming under intense criticism from   Donald Trump   and others. ’ ’   The reversal came just hours after Trump criticized the House GOP   for making the ethics rules change an initial priority of the new   Congress. ’ ’   ”With all that Congress has to work on, do they really have to   make the weakening of the Independent Ethics Watchdog, as unfair   as it may be, their number one act and priority,” Trump posted in    .   ”Focus on tax reform, healthcare and so many other things of far   greater importance! ” ’ ’   Incoming White House press secretary and communications director   Sean Spicer later added in a conference call with reporters that   Trump’’s tweets were a ”question of priorities.” ’ ’   ”He says their focus should be on tax reform and healthcare,” he   said. ”It’’s not a question of strengthening or weakening  —   it’’s a   question of priorities.” ’ ’’ ’   House Republicans had  a nonpartisan ethics watchdog, in a     meeting. The lawmakers voted to place the office   under the oversight of the House Ethics Committee, which gives   them more control over the independent body tasked with   investigating their behavior. It was a measure that was added to   a larger rules package expected to pass on Tuesday. ’ ’   The proposal to gut the ethics office was withdrawn Tuesday   afternoon by unanimous consent. ’ ”   The new rules would have eliminated the office’s spokesperson,   its ability to investigate anonymous tips, its ability to alert   law enforcement if has identified a crime, and its authority to   publicly release allegations of wrongdoing, a mandate that the   formal House Ethics Committee does not have. ” ’   House Republicans said this was because the public releases had   undermined their own due process in investigations. ’ ’   OCE was created in 2008 after a series of House corruption   scandals. ’ ’   ”The OCE has a serious and important role in the House, and this   amendment does nothing to impede their work,” said Rep. Bob   Goodlatte of Virginia, who sponsored the measure. ’ ’   House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, who created the office,   expressed dismay with the decision. ’ ’   ”Evidently, ethics are the first casualty of the new Republican   Congress,” the California Democrat said in a statement. ’ ’   House Speaker Paul Ryan and House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy   were  against the measure. ’ ’   ”After eight years of operation, many members believe the Office   of Congressional Ethics is in need of reform to protect due   process and ensure it is operating according to its stated   mission,” Ryan said in a Tuesday statement. ”I want to make clear   that this House will hold its members to the highest ethical   standards and the Office will continue to operate independently   to provide public accountability to Congress. The Office will   continue to be governed by a bipartisan independent outside board   with ultimate   authority.” ’ ’   ”I have made clear to the new chair of the House Ethics Committee   that it is not to interfere with the Office’’s investigations or   prevent it from doing its job,” he later added. ”All members of   Congress are required to earn the public’’s trust every single   day, and this House will hold members accountable to the people.” ’ ’ on Tuesday also lashed out at the Republican   lawmakers who voted to gut the office. ’ ’   ”Dudes, dudettes, what’’s wrong with you?” Scarborough asked on   ”Morning Joe.” ’ ’   He suggested Trump should oppose the measure, with which he later   expressed dismay. ’ ’   ”This seems like a great opportunity for the incoming president   to show his independence, show he wants to drain the swamp, and   immediately start hammering them on this,” Scarborough said.   ”This is ridiculous. This is what happens. Time and time again, a   party takes control of power, and Republicans have complete   power, and their first act out of the gate  —   it’’s just complete   arrogance. It’’s a horrific misstep.” ’ ’   ”This needs to be reversed,” he later added. ”Paul Ryan needs to   take charge, and say ’’You guys are looking like idiots and like   you have something to hide. This is not how we’’re supposed to   start our new Republican era. ’’” ’ ’ Maxwell Tani and Reuters contributed to this story. ’