’  ’ ’   Chuck Schumer delivered his first speech as Senate minority   leader on Tuesday, spending most of the address from the Senate   floor speaking about how Democrats would deal with     Donald Trump. ’ ’   The New York Democrat promised his party would not ”be a rubber   stamp” for Trump. ’ ’   ”It is not our job to be a rubber stamp,” he said. ”If the     proposes legislation that achieves that  —   on   issues like infrastructure, trade, and closing the carried   interest loophole, for instance  —   we will work in good faith to   perfect and, potentially, enact it. When he doesn’’t, we will   resist.” ’ ’   Schumer said the new Senate would be an ”accountability Congress”   that ”works to make sure” Trump keeps his campaign promises to   ”truly make America great.” ’ ’   ”But we’’ll fight him tooth and nail when he appeals to the baser   instincts that diminish America and its greatness  —   instincts   that have too often plagued this country and his campaign.” ’ ’’ ”   Some of those specific promises, he said, include increasing the   nation’s GDP growth in excess of 5% bringing down unemployment,   getting tough on China, protecting Social Security and Medicare,   and pushing an infrastructure package. ” ’   Schumer also criticized Trump for seeming ”to be marching   lockstep with a bullying, dissembling autocrat who has caused a   great deal of trouble around the globe and here in America,   Vladimir Putin,” and said Democrats would respond if Trump   doesn’’t select a ”mainstream” justice to fill the Supreme Court   seat vacated by Justice Antonin Scalia, who died last February. ’ ’   Schumer called on Trump to reveal his healthcare plan amid his   promise to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, commonly   known as Obamacare. ’ ’   ”It’’s not acceptable to repeal the law, throw our healthcare   system into chaos, and then leave the hard work for another day,”   he said. ’ ’   Schumer said that through the transition, he believes Trump   ”seems to have forgotten” what got him elected president. ’ ’   ”The bottom line is, the   ran as a change agent,”   he said. ”He ran against the establishments of both parties. He   promised to change the way America operates, to oppose elites,   drain the swamp, and pay attention to working families.” ’ ’   The biggest sign of his forgetting, Schumer said, have been his   Cabinet selections. ’ ’   ”Looking at the Cabinet  —   which is stacked with billionaires,   corporate executives, titans of Wall Street, and those deeply   embedded in Washington’’s corridors of power  —   it seems that many   of his campaign themes are quickly being abandoned,” he said. ”He   said he was going to   the system. So far, it still looks   rigged. Too many of his Cabinet picks support the same     doctrinaire positions that many in the Republican   Party have held for years  —   policies that the American people   have repeatedly rejected.” ’ ’   Trump’’s presidency ”will not succeed” if he adopts ” ”   policies, Schumer said. ’ ’   Schumer then took aim at Trump’’s persistent use of Twitter,   saying that ”making America great again requires more than 140   characters per issue,” and that ”America cannot afford a Twitter   presidency.” ’ ’   ”There’’s nothing wrong with using Twitter to speak to the   American people,” he said. ”It’’s a good use of modern media. But   these issues are complex and demand both careful consideration   and action. We cannot tweet them away.” ’ ’   ”Tweeting ’’very smart’’ to Vladimir Putin for ignoring American   sanctions is no foreign policy,” Schumer added later. ”America   does not conduct foreign policy by tweet, least of all by   flattering Putin after our intelligence agencies have confirmed   that Russia interfered in our election.” ’ ’   Trump recently told Schumer,  that he was a bigger fan of   the New York Democrat than he was of Republican leadership   including House Speaker Paul Ryan and Senate Majority Leader   Mitch McConnell. Trump and his family had  than to any   other sitting senator. ’