’’ ’On Tuesday, Ford announced plans to introduce a new Mustang complete with a hybrid drivetrain in 2020.’ ’You read that right.’ ’MUSTANG. HYBRID.’ ’One of the true icons of American muscle will soon be available with a powertrain most closely associated with   compact cars.’ ”While muscle car purists and those who crave the   pony car may be on the verge of a meltdown upon hearing this news, those looking for a more potent ’Stang should welcome this development.” ’According to Ford, the Mustang Hybrid is expected to produce    power and torque while delivering better fuel economy.’ ”The sterling track record of recent electrified performance vehicles lends credence to Ford’s goals. After all, the greatest performance attribute of an electric motor is its ability to deliver monstrous amounts of torque instantaneously.” ’”On paper, a hybrid Mustang doesn’’t sound all that special, but those who have experienced the incredible acceleration of an EV know that it could be the very thing that makes Mustang the performance car for a whole new generation,” Brian Moody, executive editor of Autotrader, said in an email.’ ”This is how a   Tesla Model X SUV can give Ferraris trouble at a drag strip. It’s also how BMW’s hybrid I8 sports car can sprint to 60 mph in just four seconds and yet deliver 50 mpg of fuel economy.” ’’ ”In addition, Business Insider’s recently crowned  is Acura’s new NSX hybrid supercar. One of the attributes that impressed us the most was the NSX’s hybrid drive system, which enables the car to launch off the line swiftly and consistently.” ”Ford hasn’t specified whether the Mustang Hybrid will feature a turbocharged EcoBoost   or   engine.” ”Regardless of which motor is under the hood, the hybrid ’Stang will likely be a beast at the drag strip and help Ford meet its corporate   targets.” ’Ford has confirmed that the Mustang Hybrid will be produced at the Flat Rock Assembly Plant in Michigan.’ ”Tuesday’s announcement comes as part of Ford’s  to introduce more than a dozen new electric or hybrid models over the next five years.”