’  ’ ’   Legal weed is big business. ’ ’   The North American marijuana market posted $6. 7 billion in   revenue in 2016, up 30% from the year before, according to a new   report from  a leading publisher of cannabis   market research. ’ ’   The   green rush shows no sign of slowing down. ’ ’   Arcview projects sales will grow at a compound annual growth rate   of 25% through 2021, when the North American market is expected   to top $20. 2 billion. ’ ’   ”The only consumer industry categories I’’ve seen reach $5 billion   in annual spending and then post anything like 25% compound   annual growth in the next five years are cable television (19%)   in the 1990s and the broadband internet (29%) in the 2000s,” Tom   Adams, editor in chief of Arcview Market Research, said in a   statement. ’ ’   Adams, who recently joined Arcview after a long stint as a market   researcher, says the booming cannabis industry reminds him of a   time when   internet gave way to broadband, which delivered   faster, ”always on” internet access. ’ ’   The number of Americans with broadband internet access jumped   from   —   when about half of US adults were online  —   to   70% in 2013, according to the Pew Research Center. ’ ’   ”What broadband changed for the internet was a kind of remarkable   parallel to legalization for cannabis,” Adams told Business   Insider. ”We saw what had been a $5 billion industry  —   like this   one  —   in North America take off at that point on new growth   spurts.” ’ ’   In the case of the cannabis boom, Arcview CEO Troy Dayton credits   legalization with reeling in the stigma against the plant and   bringing new users to the market. ’ ’  ’ ’   In Colorado, Washington, and Oregon, where recreational use was   legal before 2016, consumer spending on cannabis was up 62%   between 2015 and September 2016, according to Arcview. ’ ’   2016 was a big year for legalizing weed. Seven US states   legalized cannabis in some form on Election Day. California, the     economy in the world, became the biggest domino to   fall with the passage of Proposition 64. Much of the West Coast   is now a legal enclave for recreational pot. ’ ’   Dayton says the sudden popularity of alternative ingestion   methods  —   such as   topicals, sprays, and edibles  —   also   fueled growth. Consumers who would never smoke a joint are   finding relief in other products, which offer a wide array of   tastes, strengths, and experiences. ’ ’   ”It’’s one of the major reasons that people are going to leave the   underground market to go to the aboveground market. It’’s about   variety,” Dayton told Business Insider. ”You just can’’t get these   products on the underground market.” ’ ’   While the green business could achieve 25% growth      through 2021 as new recreational markets come online, Adams says   legal weed is never going to be as big as the     internet access market. But their sustained growth rates are   comparable. ’ ’   Adams and Dayton predict a great number of countries will   legalize pot in the next 10 to 15 years. ’ ’   ”So when you look at the global market, the world has never seen   something that will have such consistent growth over such a long   period of time as the cannabis industry,” Dayton said. ’