’  ’ ”     chains like Buffalo Wild Wings, Applebee’s, and   Ruby Tuesday are expected to have a difficult 2017. ” ”   Nation’s Restaurant News recently singled out the three brands as   . ” ”   In 2016, Applebee’s persuaded franchisees to spend  to compete with     chains that has so far failed to bring in customers. Buffalo Wild   Wings is caught up in a . And Ruby   Tuesday was recently forced to  and is on the hunt for a new CEO   to turn business around. ” ’   However, while each company has its own set of struggles, there   is one overarching problem:   chains are dying. ’ ’   Only 34% of   brands recorded by the industry tracker   TDn2K had positive comparable restaurant sales in the third   quarter, according to the . ’ ’   Instead, since the recession, two factors have drawn business   away from   chains: the rise of     restaurants and more people eating at home. ’ ’   The   industry grew by 550% from 1999 to 2014, . By 2020, the   market   in the US is expected to reach $66. 9 billion, according to the   . ’ ’  ’ ’   ”[  and  ] restaurants are eating these     restaurants’’ lunch all across the board, I think,”   Harold Kestenbaum, a   lawyer, told FSR   Magazine. ”The price points are lower, the food quality happens   to be better at a lot of these places, and people don’’t want to   sit, wait, and get served and sometimes get bad service.” ’ ”     restaurants are seen as trendier places to eat that   typically beat   chains when it comes to convenience   and pricing. To compete, chains like Applebee’s have attempted to   copy   competitors by updating restaurant designs and   building out their lunch and takeout businesses. So far, the   changes have not resulted in increased sales. ” ’   In addition to competing with   chains,     chains have to win over consumers who increasingly are choosing   to eat at home, as grocery prices plummeted in 2016. ’ ’   ”The already challenged restaurant industry has been hit with   slowing overall economic growth and the gap between the cost of   dining at home compared to dining out,” Dine Equity CEO Julia   Stewart said in a call with . ”The result has been a high level of   promotional activity in the marketplace competing for consumer   attention.” ’ ’   In other words, with grocery prices dropping and consumers   looking for ways to save money,   chains are forced   to offer huge discounts to persuade customers to visit locations. ’ ’   In 2016,  restaurant   chains once again began emphasizing value after years of doubling   down on quality with a . ’ ’   During the recession, Americans were resistant to purchase   anything at full price, . Now it looks   as though bargain shoppers are once again controlling the   restaurant industry  —   something that is driving consumers away   from casual chains in favor of eating at home or at   and     chains. ’ ’   Going into the new year, the   segment is caught   between a rock and a hard place. While   chains have   been  the industry is now on the cusp of a   new restaurant recession  —   and casual chains will likely be hit   the hardest. ’