’  ’ ”   Ford Motor Company’s cancellation of plans to build a $1. 6   billion auto manufacturing plant in San Luis Potosi has sounded   alarms throughout Mexico. ” ”   Even as the country is being rocked by rowdy nationwide protests   against a Jan. 1 gasoline price hike, the Ford news led the front   pages of Mexico’s most influential newspapers on Wednesday, and   they tied the development directly to   Donald   Trump. ” ’   ”Trump leaves Mexico without 3, 600 jobs,” read the headline on El   Universal. ”Ford’’s braking jolts the peso,” said Reforma,   referring to the Mexican currency’’s nearly 1 percent slump   following the news. ’ ’   ”The jobs created in Mexico have contributed to maintaining   manufacturing jobs in the United States which otherwise would   have disappeared in the face of Asian competition,” the Mexico   Economy Department said. ’ ”   Mexicans have been nervous about Trump’s tough rhetoric toward   their country, including disparaging remarks about immigrants who   come to the U. S. illegally and vows to wall off the border and   renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement, upsetting   ties with what is by far Mexico’s largest trading partner. ” ’   Two weeks before inauguration, the scuttling of the planned Ford   factory and Trump’’s pressure on General Motors should be a   ”    call,” said Mexico analyst Alejandro Hope. ’ ’   It shows ”how much actual leverage Trump has within specific   companies, which is far greater than what Mexican elites thought   until recently,” Hope said. ”They claimed that at the end of the   day economic interests would prevail over political messaging.   That’’s clearly not the case.” ’ ’  ’ ”   In an editorial, El Universal also recalled the deal Trump struck   in December with Carrier to keep 800 of 1, 300 jobs at an Indiana   furnace factory from being sent to Mexico, in return for millions   of dollars in tax incentives. It also implicitly criticized the   Mexican government’s response to the incoming administration. ” ’   ”Mexico loses thousands of jobs with no word on a clear strategy   for confronting the next U. S. government which has presented   itself as protectionist and, especially, ” the paper   wrote. ”Trump will try to recover as many U. S. companies that   have set up in Mexico as possible. He will try to make them   return at whatever cost, through threats or using public   resources.” ’ ’   ”Ford’’s decision is indicative of what awaits the economies of   both countries,” the daily La Jornada said. ”For ours a severe   decrease in investment from our neighboring country, and for the   U. S. a notable increase in their production costs.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Hope said more decisions like Ford’’s are likely to come. And   while the loss of a single planned plant probably does not   fundamentally change the U. S.  economic relationship, ”it   certainly shows that the idea that the status quo was entrenched   was false.” ’ ’   ”This should put us on notice that when he says that he wants to   renegotiate NAFTA, he means it,” Hope said. ’