’  ’ ’   Two NFL teams enter the postseason starting rookie quarterbacks,   though they surely did not expect to be in this position back in   May. ’ ’   And the two teams starting rookie quarterbacks, the Dallas   Cowboys and Oakland Raiders, are in significantly different   positions. ’ ’   The Cowboys finished with the best record in the NFC at   led   by the unlikely rookie duo of Dak Prescott and running back   Ezekiel Elliott. Prescott, of course, was so good filling in for   the injured Tony Romo that he won the starting job through the   regular season. ’ ’   The Raiders, meanwhile, cruised to   before losing     quarterback Derek Carr to a broken leg in Week 15.   With backup QB Matt McGloin getting injured in Week 17, the   Raiders are starting rookie quarterback Connor Cook against the   Houston Texans for the Wild Card game on Saturday. ’ ’   However, these two scenarios could never have happened without   the typical wheeling and dealing that comes with the NFL Draft. ’ ” in October, the Cowboys   nearly didn’t come away with Prescott in the 2016 NFL Draft.   First, the Cowboys tried to trade late into the first round to   draft Memphis quarterback Paxton Lynch. After refusing to give up   a   and a   pick, Dallas was beaten out by the   . ” ’   Jerry Jones later admitted he regretted not meeting the Seattle   Seahawks’’ (who owned the pick) demands, saying, ” ’ ”   Two rounds later, according to Schefter, the Cowboys were again   targeting a quarterback, this time Michigan State’s Connor Cook.   However, Cleveland, who owned the 100th pick Dallas was trying to   nab, traded it to Oakland instead. The Raiders used the pick to   draft Cook, who will make his first NFL start in the playoffs. ” ’  ’ ”   The Cowboys later used a   pick to draft Prescott.   However,  Chip Kelly   wanted the 49ers to draft Prescott earlier, but was shot down by   GM Trent Baalke. It’s unclear if the 49ers were targeting   Prescott in the fourth round, but they drafted cornerback Rashard   Robinson two spots ahead of Prescott, who then went to the   Cowboys at pick No. 135. ” ”   This shuffling of players could have led to wildly different   results this season. Denver, going into the draft, had a   quarterback problem with only Mark Sanchez and Trevor Siemian on   board. Though Siemian won the job in training camp, if they   hadn’t drafted Lynch, would they have pulled the trigger on trade   for, say, Colin Kaepernick, who they were rumored to be   targeting? ” ’   Nobody could have predicted the injuries to Tony Romo in   preseason or to Derek Carr in Week 15, but the backup   quarterbacks could have made this season a different story. Who   could be starting for the Raiders in the Wild Card game if they   had not traded up to draft Connor Cook? ’ ”   Or, if the Cowboys drafted Lynch or Cook, would they still be in   the position they’re in today with one of them filling in for an   injured Tony Romo. Would Romo have taken over again if Lynch or   Cook were running the show? Would the 49ers have possibly   competed for a playoff spot in Prescott was their quarterback? ” ’   These are all hypotheticals that could be asked each year, but   this year, they feel especially pertinent. This year, things fell   just right for Prescott to have a historic rookie season, while   Cook will face a huge first test this Saturday, and Lynch will   have to wait for his big moment. And the 49ers are still   searching for answers at quarterback. ’