’  ’ ”   Five people were killed in a mass shooting in the  of Terminal 2 at Florida’s Fort Lauderdale International   Airport just before 1 p. m. on Friday, the Broward Sheriff’s   office said, adding that eight people  to the hospital from the airport. ” ’  ’ ”   NBC’s Pete Williams reported that Santiago had signed up to serve   in the National Guard in August 2016 and had been living in   Alaska. He was born in New Jersey, Williams reported, and his   family was originally from Puerto Rico. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tBREAKING: Photos of alleged Fort Lauderdale Airport shooter Esteban Santiago, law enforcement sources tell CBS   ’ ’   The suspect was apparently receiving some form of psychological   treatment while in Alaska,  which cited the suspect’’s   brother, Bryan Santiago. He told the newswire service that his   family received a call ”in recent months” from the suspect’’s   girlfriend who informed them of the situation. ’ ’   He did not specify what type of treatment the suspect may been   receiving. ’ ”   Santiago, who was born in New Jersey but grew up in Puerto   Rico, served in Puerto Rico’s National Guard and was   .  ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Santiago apparently flew in to Fort Lauderdale from Anchorage,   Alaska via  . Paul on Delta, according to NBC. ’ ’   He  he used in the shooting in his luggage   and, upon claiming his bag at baggage claim, went into the   bathroom to load it,  . He then came out shooting. ’ ’   The Transportation Security Administration allows passengers to   transport unloaded firearms in a locked,   container ”as   checked baggage only,” according to its website. ’ ’   ”Only the passenger should retain the key or combination to the   lock” on the container, the guidelines state, and the firearm   must be declared ” ’ ’   LaMarca  soon after the shooting that the gunman had   arrived at the Fort Lauderdale airport on a Canadian flight, but   Air Canada said on Twitter that it had ”no record of a passenger   by the name Esteban Santiago, or checked guns, on any of our   flights to Fort Lauderdale.” ’ ’   All   ’ ’   Video released from inside the baggage claim area appears to show   the aftermath of the shooting at Terminal 2. A witness  that the gunman shot several people ” ” as   they waited for their bags. ’ ’  ’ ’ ’ ’Video released from inside Fort Lauderdale airport baggage claim area ’ ’   A witness to the shooting shared a graphic photo on Twitter that   showed a man bleeding on the lower level of the airport. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tShots fired at FLL airport. Guy is bleeding profusely. Supposedly others are shot on the lower level at Delta Term 2.  ’ ’   Florida Gov. Rick Scott traveled to the airport to be briefed on   the attack. Florida Sen. Marco Rubio tweeted that he is ”praying   for the victims and everyone at the  airport. .” ’ ’     Donald Trump tweeted that he is ”m ’ ’  ’ ”   The Federal Aviation Authority issued a ground stop for all   flights at Fort Lauderdale airport, one of the country’s busiest   transport hubs. The airport is in South Florida’s Broward County,   about 30 miles north of Miami. ” ’  ’