’  ’ ”     Donald Trump released a statement Friday after   his   meeting with intelligence officials to   discuss the intelligence community’s report on Russian     hacking, calling the meeting constructive. ” ’   ”While Russia, China, other countries, outside groups and people   are consistently trying to break through the cyber infrastructure   of our governmental institutions, businesses and organizations   including the Democrat [sic] National Committee, there was   absolutely no effect on the outcome of the election including the   fact that there was no tampering whatsoever with voting   machines,” he said in the statement. ”There were attempts to hack   the Republican National Committee, but the RNC had strong hacking   defenses and the hackers were unsuccessful.” ’ ’   Trump said he would appoint a team to provide him with a plan,   within 90 days of his inauguration later this month, to   ”aggressively combat and stop cyberattacks.” ’ ’   ”Whether it is our government, organizations, associations, or   businesses, we need to aggressively combat and stop   cyberattacks,” he wrote. ”I will appoint a team to give me a plan   within 90 days of taking office. The methods, tools and tactics   we use to keep America safe should not be a public discussion   that will benefit those who seek to do us harm. Two weeks from   today I will take the oath of office and America’’s safety and   security will be my number one priority.” ’ ”   On Thursday night, NBC’s Hallie Jackson  also   presented to President Barack Obama on Thursday, detailed Russian   cyberattacks against the Democratic National Committee, the White   House, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the State Department, and   American companies. Some hacks were successful, while others were   not. ” ’   Intelligence officials said in the briefing that the Russian   motive was to disrupt the democratic process in the election and   that the hacking also served as ”payback” for the Obama   administration questioning Russian President Vladimir Putin’’s   legitimacy, according to NBC. ’ ’   The report traced Russian cyberactivity in the previous two   presidential elections as well, according to NBC. It did not make   an assessment on whether Russian hacking affected the outcome of   the 2016 presidential race. ’ ”   Also on Thursday,  that   intelligence officials picked up senior Russian officials   celebrating Trump’s victory and that   worked to turn   over emails belonging to Democratic operatives and organizations   from hackers to the website WikiLeaks. ” ”   Earlier Friday, Trump said he wanted Congress to investigate how   NBC got its hands on the intelligence community’s report on   Russian   hacking before he saw it. ” ’   ”I am asking the chairs of the House and Senate committees to   investigate top secret intelligence shared with NBC prior to me   seeing it,” . ’ ’   Trump had posted on Thursday, after NBC’’s   report of the   intelligence findings, that the news network received a copy of   the document because of ”politics.” ’ ’   ”How did NBC get ’’an exclusive look into the top secret report he   (Obama) was presented? ’’” . ”Who gave them this report and   why? Politics!” ’ ”   After WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange’s interview with Fox News   host Sean Hannity earlier this week, Trump repeated Assange’s   denial that Russia provided WikiLeaks with the hacked   information. ” ’   ”Julian Assange said ’’a    could have hacked Podesta’’  —     why was DNC so careless?” . ”Also said Russians did not   give him the info!” ’ ’   WikiLeaks also chimed in on Friday, saying NBC was able to view   the briefing because of ”political reasons.” ’ ’   ”The Obama   is illegally funneling TOP      information to NBC for political reasons before PEOTUS even gets   to read it,” the website, infamous for releasing hacked and   leaked documents, posted on Twitter. ’ ’   Democratic Rep. Adam Schiff of California, the ranking member on   the House Intelligence Committee, questioned why Trump wanted to   investigate the NBC report. ’ ’   ”Of all issues implicated by Russian active measures, this is   what you want to investigate?” . ”This is your top priority for   intel committees?” ’ ’  ’ ’   Both Republicans and Democrats have called for action against   Russia after the hacking. Republican Sens. Lindsey Graham of   South Carolina and John McCain of Arizona have been two of the   loudest voices on that front. After the Obama administration   announced new sanctions on Russia last week, House Speaker Paul   Ryan and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell released   statements that both criticized Russia and said Obama had not   been hard enough on the Russian government in previous years. ’ ’   Russia has repeatedly denied involvement in the     hacks, and Trump has refused to acknowledge any Russian   involvement. ’ ’ he said that it was time for the   US to move on to ”bigger and better” things but that he would   nevertheless meet with intelligence officials to discuss the   hacking. This weekend, he said he knew things about the hacking   that no one else did and would reveal them Tuesday or Wednesday,   but he did not provide further information. ’ ’   On Tuesday, Trump tweeted: ”The ’’intelligence’’ briefing on     ’’Russian hacking’’ was delayed until Friday, perhaps   more time needed to build a case. Very strange!” ’ ’   Intelligence officials pushed back on his tweet, saying the   briefing was always supposed to be held Friday. ’