’  ’ ’     Donald Trump said Saturday that the only reason   the hacking of the Democratic National Committee is   discussed is because Democrats are ”totally embarrassed” about   their election loss, and he urged friendlier relations with   Russia. ’ ’   ”Only reason the hacking of the poorly defended DNC is discussed   is that the loss by the Dems was so big that they are totally   embarrassed!” Trump said as part of a Saturday morning   tweetstorm. ’ ”   His comments came a day after the declassification of a US   intelligence report that concluded Vladimir Putin, the Russian   president,  and hurt   Hillary Clinton’s chances of winning.  ” ’   Trump pointed to ”gross negligence” by the DNC as the reason the   hacking took place.  ’ ’   He also denied suggestions that the Russian hacking   could have affected the election results, saying ”there was   absolutely no evidence that hacking affected the election   results” because voting machines weren’’t ”touched.”  ’ ’   The US intelligence community’’s report concluded that   Russia  —   led by Putin  —   developed a ”clear preference for     Trump. But it did not assess the impact   that Russian activities had on the election outcome, as  reported. ’ ’   The   further touched on his relationship with   Russia, saying that only ”stupid people” and ”fools” would think   that having a good relationship with Russia is ”bad.” ’ ’   ”When I am President, Russia will respect us far more than they   do now, and both countries will, perhaps, work together to solve   some fo the many great and pressing problems and issues of the   WORLD!” he tweeted. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tIntelligence stated very strongly there was absolutely no evidence that hacking affected the election results. Voting machines not touched! ’t’t’ ’ ’t’t’tOnly reason the hacking of the poorly defended DNC is discussed is that the loss by the Dems was so big that they are totally embarrassed! ’t’t’ ’ ’t’t’tHaving a good relationship with Russia is a good thing, not a bad thing. Only ”stupid” people, or fools, would think that it is bad! We. .... ’t’t’ ’ ’t’t’thave enough problems around the world without yet another one. When I am President, Russia will respect us far more than they do now and. ...’t’t’ ’ ’t’t’tboth countries will, perhaps, work together to solve some of the many great and pressing problems and issues of the WORLD! ’t’t’