’  ’ ”     Donald Trump’s    Jared Kushner, may be   headed for a job in the White House.  ” ’   Kushner is in the process of filing financial disclosure   documents in preparation for taking a formal role as an   adviser to the president, sources close to the process .  ’ ”   Kushner, who is married to Ivanka Trump, is the CEO of his   family’s   business. He also  along with other media   properties.  ” ”   He has hired WilmerHale, a   law firm, to help him   navigate and comply with federal ethics laws,  reported. Kushner  of   Washington, just blocks away from the Obama family’s new home, in   preparation for his move.  ” ”   At the same time, Kushner is working to close a deal with a major   Chinese financial company, Anbang, to redevelop a property   that Kushner’s company owns in Manhattan, according to the Times.   Anbang, which owns the Waldorf Astoria hotel and controls an   estimated $285 billion in assets, is owned by a tangled web of   shell companies and .  ” ’   In order to avoid conflicts, Kushner will likely step down from   the CEO position at his family’’s company, and divest ”substantial   assets,”  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Incoming Cabinet members must disclose their finances to the   nonpartisan Office of Government Ethics to avoid      before their Senate confirmation hearings.   Members of Trump’s proposed Cabinet  —   composed of many   centimillionaires and billionaires  —   hold   complicated assets, like buildings and equity stakes in   companies, which makes the OGE’s job especially difficult.  ” ’   The OGE’’s director, Walter Shaub, said he was ”concerned”   that his office would not have enough time to complete the ethics   reviews before Senate Republicans begin confirmation hearings   next week, according to .  ’ ’   Shaub said that his office would have to ”rush through” the   reviews, adding that he was unaware of any instance of   confirmation hearings occurring before an ethics review was   completed.  ’ ’   Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, the Democrat from New   York, said in a statement on Saturday that Trump’’s   transition team is colluding with Senate Republicans to ”jam   through” cabinet nominees without them being ”thoroughly vetted.” ’ ”   The Senate will hold six confirmation hearings for Trump’s   cabinet on Wednesday.  ”