’  ’ ”   More than three years after McDonald’s killed its famous Dollar   Menu, Taco Bell is doubling down on its selection of menu   items that cost just a buck.  ” ’   With the December debut of ’ ’   ”We have not walked away from the Dollar Menu price point when   others have,” Taco Bell CMO Marisa Thalberg told Business   Insider. ’ ’   In 2013, McDonald’’s replaced its iconic Dollar Menu with the   ”Dollar Menu and More,” as it became more difficult to sell items   for just $1 and still turn a profit. It was a switch that caused   problems for the chain. In 2015, CEO Steve Easterbrook  that McDonald’’s ”didn’’t replace [the menu] with     value in the eyes of consumers.” ’ ”   McDonald’s and other   chains instead turned to bundled   deals such as the McPick 2, Wendy’s  and Taco Bell’s $5 Cravings deal.   These deals all drove sales in the   industry in 2016 by   offering customers perceived value without the thin, or     profit margins that made  ” ’   Now, value menus are once again in the spotlight. Restaurant   sales have  as   customers increasingly eat at   home and seek deals on food when they do go out. Some   analysts have concerns that a  is looming. ’ ’   Taco Bell can build a Dollar Menu (or a Feast for $1 menu) while   other chains struggle to do so for three reasons:   its ability to churn out new products, its tendency to   introduce bizarre menu items, and its   approach to   value. ’ ”   While McDonald’s was forced to sell classic Dollar Menu   items at just $1 despite rising food costs and inflation, much of   Taco Bell’s $1 menu are new and   items. According to   Thalberg, much of the chain’s new product development is centered   on value. ” ’  ’ ’   ”I think [Taco Bell] is the   of food,” Thalberg said. ’ ”     retailers like H&M sell clothing based on trends   ripped from the runway, with the understanding that prices   need to be low to win over customers. In the   same way, Taco Bell’s $1 menu items are created with   the   price point in mind.  ” ”   The   comparison also applies to Taco Bell’s   willingness to chase bizarre trends, which allows the chain to   use $1 menu items as a way to get customers in the door. ” ’   Wacky options like Double Stacked Tacos  —   a hard taco within   a soft taco, glued together with melted cheese  —   and Crispy   Chicken Chips attract curious customers in a way that Dollar   Menu classics often fail to do. Sales of Double Stacked   Tacos are already beating company expectations, according to   Thalberg.  ’ ”   Taco Bell doesn’t exclusively rely on $1 menu items to attract   bargain shoppers. The $5 Craving Deals and other bundled deals   will also be crucial to the chain’s value game plan in 2017,   Thalberg said.  ”