’  ’ ”   WASHINGTON (AP)  —   Republicans on Sunday defended their party   against Democratic complaints that Congress is being forced to   consider nominees for Donald Trump’s administration without   completed ethics reviews. ” ’   ”All of these little procedural complaints are related to their   frustration in having not only lost the White House, but having   lost the Senate,” Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said on   CBS’’ ”Face the Nation.” ’ ’   ”I understand that,” he added, ”but we need to sort of grow up   here and get past that.” ’ ’   At issue is whether   —   in some cases   millionaires and billionaires with complex personal finances  —     would face conflicts of interest when it comes to overseeing   taxpayer spending. ’ ”   The  in some cases the office   hasn’t received even draft financial disclosure reports for   nominees appearing before Congress this week. On Wednesday alone,   at least nine Trump nominees are scheduled for confirmation   hearings. ” ’’ ’   McConnell suggested the complaints amounted to sour grapes from a   party that did poorly in the 2016 congressional and presidential   elections. The Kentucky Republican noted that Republicans were in   the same boat eight years ago when they had to swiftly confirm   multiple nominees who he described as ”wildly liberal.” ’ ’   But the director of the Office of Government Ethics, Walter   Shaub, said the Republican management of the confirmation   hearings is unusual considering that that in some cases, the   office had not received even initial draft financial disclosure   reports from Trump nominees. ’ ’   ”I am not aware of any occasion in the four decades since OGE was   established when the Senate held a confirmation hearing before   the nominee had completed the ethics review process,” wrote   Shaub. ’ ’   Reince Priebus, Trump’’s incoming chief of staff, rejected any   suggestion that Republicans should slow down. In an interview on   ”Fox News Sunday,” Priebus said Democrats ”have all the   information” they need and should move fast because voters   mandated it. ’ ’   ”Change was voted for and change we will get,” he said. ’ ’   Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer,  . Y. said the ethics   review is aimed at ensuring wealthy Cabinet members work for the   American people instead of ”their own bottom line, and that they   plan to fully comply with the law.” ’