’  ’ ”   Twitter suspended Martin Shkreli’s account on   Sunday following his trolling of freelance   journalist Lauren Duca. ” ”   After Duca wrote a   opinion piece for Teen Vogue in   December called  Shkreli started   targeting her with jokes about his affection for her on Twitter,   including a direct message he allegedly sent asking her to be his   date to Trump’s inauguration. ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tI would rather eat my own organs  ’ ’  ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tHow is this allowed   ’ ”   Twitter confirmed that Shkreli’s account suspension was   related to his harassment of Duca, and that he will have   to change parts of his account if he appeals to have it   reinstated. ” ’   ”The Twitter Rules prohibit targeted harassment, and we   will take action on accounts violating those policies,” a Twitter   spokesperson told Business Insider on Sunday. The spokesperson   confirmed that Shkreli’’s account had also been suspended on   Periscope, the live video streaming app Twitter owns. ’ ’   Duca told Business Insider via Twitter direct message that   Shkreli ”is engaged in targeted harassment, and absolutely   deserves to have his account suspended.” ’ ’   ”It’’s unfortunate that the only reason people are paying   attention is because he’’s relatively ” she said.   ”Trolling seems to be an automatic occupational hazard for female   writers who receive any level of professional attention. That’’s   something Twitter needs to work harder to fix, but obviously the   problem runs far deeper.” ’ ’   Shkreli responded to Business Insider’’s request for comment with   the word ”nope.” ’ ’   A   Trump   supporter, first made   headlines when a pharmaceutical company he founded   called Turing raised the price of a   AIDS drug by over   5, 000% a controversial decision that he then . He also    for allegedly attempting to loot another   pharmaceutical company he ran, Retrophin, in 2014. ’ ’   This isn’’t the first time that Twitter has banned a famous figure   for targeted harassment. In July 2016, the company  for his tweets targeting ”SNL” and   ”Ghostbusters” actress Leslie Jones. ’ ’   ”People should be able to express diverse opinions and beliefs on   Twitter,” a Twitter spokesperson said at the time in response to   Yiannopoulos’’s banning. ”But no one deserves to be subjected to   targeted abuse online, and our rules prohibit inciting or   engaging in the targeted abuse or harassment of others.” ’