’  ’ ”   President Barack Obama took partial responsibility for years of   Democratic losses in governor’s mansions and statehouses across   the country during his presidency. ” ’   During an interview with the president on ABC’’s ”This Week,” host   George Stephanopoulos pointed out that Democrats lost over 1, 000   seats total in state and federal politics over the course of   Obama’’s time in office.  ’ ’   ”I take some responsibility on that,” Obama said. ’ ’   The president argued that many voters in the 2010 midterm   elections were disenchanted with his presidency due to the slow   economic recovery following the 2008 recession, which allowed   Republicans to redraw districts more favorably in many states   following the 2010 census. ’ ’   ”I think we did a really good job in saving this economy and   putting us back on the track of growth. But what that meant is in   2010 there were a lot of folks who were still out of work. There   were a lot of folks who had lost their homes or saw their home   values plummet, their 401( k)s plummet,” Obama said. ’ ’’ ’   He added: ”And we were just at the beginnings of a recovery. And   the, you know, whoever is president at that point is going   to get hit, and his party’’s going to get hit. That then   means that suddenly you’’ve got a redistricting in which a lot of   state legislatures are now Republican. They draw lines that give   a huge structural advantage in subsequent elections.” ’ ’   But Obama also acknowledged that he was not entirely focused   on energizing grassroots voters to support Democrats. ’ ’   ”I think that what is also true is that partly because my docket   was really full here, so I couldn’’t be both chief organizer of   the Democratic Party and function as    and   president of the United States. We did not begin what I   think needs to happen over the long haul, and that is rebuild the   Democratic Party at the ground level,” Obama said. ’ ’   The president advised Democrats to campaign in areas without   current high levels of support, taking a slight shot at campaigns   that focused on maximizing turnout among existing Democratic   constituencies instead of attempting to win over new voters. ’ ’   ”If there’’s a theme in my public career it’’s that if ordinary   people get involved, then good things happen. So I want to see   the Democratic Party move in that direction. And what that means   is that we aren’’t just microtargeting to eke out presidential   victories. It means that we’’re showing up in places where right   now we’’re not winning a lot,” Obama said. ’ ’   While he has publicly avoided current intraparty debates,   including the race for the Democratic National Committee chair,   Obama has repeatedly said part of his   mission   will be to focus on rebuilding the grassroots Democratic Party. ’ ’   ”We’’ve ceded too much territory,” Obama . ”One of the big suggestions that I have   for Democrats as I leave, and something that, you know, I have   some ideas about is, how do we do more of that     building?” ’ ’   Many Democrats have increasingly acknowledged they plan to focus   on building up state parties in the years leading up to the   2020 presidential election. ’ ’   In an interview with Business Insider, South Bend, Indiana,   Mayor Peter Buttigieg, a DNC chair candidate, argued that   Democrats have focused too much energy on winning the White House   alone. ’ ’   ”If you are just focusing on the White House, even when you get   the White House, you’re going to have a lot of problems, if the   other party is dominating the states and Congress,” Buttigieg   said. ’ ’   He added: ”Look at the monstrous obstructions to getting anything   done, even while we had a lock on the White House for eight   years, and in the event that we don’’t get the White House,   then you’re left with nothing. And that’s part of how the party   now is finding ourselves at the lowest level of influence we’ve   had in nearly a century.” ’