’  ’ ’   The US Senate starts considering   Donald Trump’’s   Cabinet picks in confirmation hearings on Tuesday, and he is   extremely confident ”they’’ll all pass.” ’ ’   If history is any indicator, Trump has little to worry   about. ’ ’   In 228 years of the Executive Branch, the Senate has  while 11   were withdrawn or not acted on by the Senate.  ’ ”   Considering presidents have nominated at least  to 21  requiring Senate confirmation per term, that’s a   remarkably good success rate. ” ’   Asked about the confirmation hearings after  on Monday, Trump said he   expected them to go smoothly. ’ ’   ”Confirmation is going great. I think they’’ll all pass,” Trump   said. ”I think every nomination will be  —   they’’re all at the   highest level. Jack was even saying, they are the absolute   highest level. I think they’’re going to do very well.” ’ ’  ’ ”  —     —   have objected to many of Trump’s   picks, most notably  as secretary of state, Sen.  as attorney general, and  as the administrator of the   Environmental Protection Agency. ” ’   But to successfully reject one of them with the required simple   majority, all of the 48 Democrats in the Senate would need to   oppose a nominee, plus have three Republicans join them. ’ ”   The loudest concerns senators have voiced have come over   Tillerson’s close ties to Russian President Vladimir Putin, who   awarded the former Exxon Mobil CEO an . ” ’   Top  released last   week that Russia was behind the Democratic National Committee   hacks, which they said was part of a campaign orchestrated by   Putin and designed to discredit Democratic nominee Hillary   Clinton and aid Trump. ’ ’   Sessions, meanwhile, was nominated to be a federal district court   judge by President Ronald Reagan in 1986. But the     Senate Judiciary Committee blocked his   nomination  that he denied. His hearing for attorney general, in   front of the same committee that rejected him years ago, begins   Tuesday. ’ ’   After his nomination, Sen. Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts    to join her in opposing Sessions. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’t30 yrs ago, a GOP Senate rejected ’ judicial nomination, affirming no compromise with racism; no negotiation with hate. ’t’t’ ’   ”Today, a new GOP Senate must decide whether   &   political cowardice will prevent them from once again doing what   is right,” she tweeted. ’ ”   Pruitt, meanwhile, is  against what he has called overreach   of the EPA, the agency Trump has nominated him to lead, for   President Barack Obama’s Clean Power Plan. ” ’   He is the only Cabinet pick that incoming Senate Minority   Leader Chuck Schumer of New York has outright opposed, raising   concerns on Twitter that Pruitt denies the . ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tIt’s irresponsible to support an  nominee who puts polluters over clear water & air for the American people. I oppose . ’t’t’ ’   Environmental group Sierra Club compared Pruitt heading the EPA   to ”.” ’ ’  ’ ”   The last time the Senate outright blocked a nomination was   Republican President George H. W. Bush’s choice of  in 1989. ” ’   ”Senator George J. Mitchell of Maine, the majority leader   . .. and Senator Sam Nunn, chairman of the Armed Services   Committee, both argued that Mr. Tower’’s nomination was a special   case,” The  at the time, ”a nominee for a particularly   sensitive job plagued by an unusually long list of allegations   about purported drinking problems, misconduct toward women and   lax attitudes toward conflicts created by his work as a   consultant to military contractors.” ’ ’   More recently, Obama withdrew Tom Daschle as his nominee for   secretary of health and human services in 2009 .   President George W. Bush withdrew two Cabinet nominees, and   President Bill Clinton withdrew three. ’ ’   The very first Cabinet pick to be outright rejected by the Senate   was  in 1834, whom President Andrew Jackson appointed as   Treasury Secretary to dismantle the National Bank.  ’