’  ’ ”   A former Fox News host who accused Bill O’Reilly and a network   executive of sexual harassment quietly received a     settlement from the company after the ouster of former Chairman   and CEO Roger Ailes, according to  and . ” ’   Juliet Huddy, who hosted ”The Morning Show with Mike and Juliet”   before it was canceled in 2009, was a frequent guest on ”The   O’’Reilly Factor.” She described a pattern of harassment beginning   in 2011 that ended in O’’Reilly sabotaging her career after she   rejected his advances, according to a letter written by her   lawyers that was obtained by The Times and Lawnewz. com. ’ ”   This isn’t the first time O’Reilly has been accused of sexual   harassment. Andrea Mackris, who was a producer on his show, sued   him in 2004, describing instances of harassment similar to those   Huddy alleged. ” ”   Both women said they received phone calls from O’Reilly that   sounded like he was masturbating, according to The Times. ” ”   Huddy also accused Jack Abernethy, who was recently appointed   copresident of Fox News, of sexual harassment. Both Abernethy and   O’Reilly strongly denied the allegations, according to the   reports. ” ’’ ”   According to the reports, the letter says O’Reilly took Huddy out   to dinner and the theater, invited her to his house, tried to   kiss her, and made inappropriate phone calls. He also invited her   to his hotel room on one occasion, then appeared in his boxers   when she went to return the room key he gave her after saying she   wasn’t interested in a sexual relationship with him, according to   the reported letter. ” ”   Last year, Huddy’s lawyers sent the letter containing the   allegations to Fox, which settled with Huddy in September before   she could sue, according to the reports. ” ”   The letter said that when Huddy visited O’Reilly’s home he kissed   her on the lips, according to the reports. ” ’   ”Ms. Huddy was so taken aback and repulsed that she instinctively   recoiled and actually fell to the ground,” the letter said,   according to The Times. ”Mr. O’’Reilly, looking amused, did not   even help Ms. Huddy up.” ’ ’   She went to dinner and the theater with O’’Reilly the next week,   which is when the alleged incident at the hotel happened,   according to the reported letter. Huddy said she ”felt compelled   to comply with Mr. O’’Reilly’’s request, given that he had total   control over her work assignment,” the letter said, according to   The Times. ’ ’   When Huddy made clear she did not want a sexual relationship with   O’’Reilly, he ”began to retaliate against her both on and off   air,” according to the reported letter. The letter said O’’Reilly   ”nitpicked her work,” berated her for ”minor mistakes,” and   stopped preparing her for segments on his show, according to The   Times. ’ ”   Huddy told Fox News employees at the time that she didn’t   complain because she feared retaliation, according to The Times. ” ’   Huddy moved from Fox News to a local New York affiliate, then   left that job in September after she received the settlement,   according to Lawnewz. com. ’ ’   A Fox News spokeswoman told Business Insider in a statement   that ”the letter contains substantial falsehoods, which both men   have vehemently denied.” ’ ’   A person briefed on the situation additionally said the company   was aware of Huddy’s allegations when they signed Abernethy to a   new   deal in September 2016. ’