’  ’ ’   European leaders wrote a letter to   Donald Trump   on Monday warning him that ”the prospect of a new grand bargain   with Russia” would endanger the ”predictability and security”   Americans and Europeans achieved together after the end of the   Cold War. ’ ’   The letter, signed by 17 current and former officials from a   range of central and eastern European countries  —   including   Bulgaria, Romania, Estonia, Latvia, and Sweden  —   argued that it   would be ”a grave mistake” to roll back the current sanctions on   Russia or accept its aggression in Ukraine. ’ ’   ”The aftershocks of such a deal would shake American credibility   with allies in Europe and elsewhere,” the letter said. It also   said ”the   international order on which Western   security has depended for decades” would be eroded by an   acceptance of Russian President Vladimir Putin’’s disregard for   international law. ’ ’   ”Have no doubt: Vladimir Putin is not America’’s ally,” the letter   said. ”Both of the presidents who preceded you tried in their own   ways to deal with Russia’’s leadership in the spirit of trust and   friendship. Big mistake: Putin treated their good intentions as   opportunities.” ’ ’   President Barack Obama pursued a ”reset” of the US relationship   with Russia shortly after taking office in 2009 that ultimately   failed. As The Washington Post’’s  central and eastern European leaders    to Obama at the time of the reset   ”to ensure that too narrow an understanding of Western interests   does not lead to the wrong concessions to Russia.” ’ ’  ’ ”   Russia’s annexation of Crimea, incursion into eastern Ukraine,   and support for   and white supremacist movements across   Europe  —   as well as the Russian hacking campaign targeting US   Democrats during the presidential election  —   has fomented a   greater urgency in the European warnings to approach the Kremlin   with caution. ” ’   ”Putin does not seek American greatness. As your allies, we do,”   the letter said. ”A deal with Putin will not bring peace. On the   contrary, it makes war more likely. Putin views concessions as a   sign of weakness. He will be inclined to test American   credibility in frontline NATO allies, such as Estonia, Latvia,   Lithuania, and Poland.” ’ ”   Throughout the presidential campaign, Trump questioned the value   of NATO, which is currently engaging in the biggest military   buildup on Russia’s western borders since the Cold War. ” ’   ”As your   allies,” the letter concluded, ”we appeal   to Americans in the new US administration and Congress to stand   firm in the defense of our common goals and interests: peace,   Atlantic strength, and freedom. United, we are more than a match   for Russia’’s ailing kleptocracy. Divided, as we have seen all too   clearly in recent years, we are all at risk.” ’