’  ’ ”     Donald Trump on Wednesday finally appeared to   publicly say that Russia was behind the hacking and release of   emails from within the Democratic National Committee and from   Hillary Clinton’s campaign chair. ” ’   ”I think it was Russia, but I think we also get hacked by other   countries and other people,” Trump said at his first press   conference in 169 days. ’ ’   The   then referenced China’’s likely 2014 breach of   the Office of Personnel Management. ”And I can say that, you   know, when we lost 22 million names and all that was hacked   recently, they didn’’t make a big deal out of that,” he said. ’ ’   Intelligence agencies  that   said Russia was likely the source of the hacks, which disclosed   occasionally embarrassing internal squabbles and decisions among   top Democratic Party officials. ’ ’   Despite the emerging reports, for months Trump dismissed Russia’’s   role in the hacking, repeatedly saying it could have instead been   ”somebody sitting on their bed that weighs 400 pounds.” ’ ’’ ”   At Wednesday’s press conference, Trump also addressed reports   that Russia hacked the Republican National Committee but did not   release the findings, hypothesizing that Russia would’ve leaked   the emails in a similar fashion as the DNC leaks or the leaked   emails from Clinton campaign chair John Podesta. ” ’   ”I think, frankly, had they had broken into the Republican   National Committee, I think they would’’ve released it just like   they did about Hillary and all of the horrible things that her   people, like Mr. Podesta, said about her,” Trump said. ’ ’   After dismissing a  that   included unverified documents that alleged Russian intelligence   agents both provided information to Trump and had compromising   information about him, the   said he ”respected the   fact” that Russian President Vladimir Putin  and he said the two may   have a good relationship. ’ ’   ”If Putin likes Donald Trump, I consider that an asset, not a   liability,” Trump said. ”We have a horrible relationship with   Russia. Russia can help us fight ISIS, which, by the way, is,   number one, tricky.” ’ ’   ”I don’’t know that I’’m going to get along with Vladimir Putin,”   the   added. ”I hope I do. But there’’s a good   chance I won’’t. But if I don’’t, do you honestly believe that   Hillary would be tougher on Putin than me? Does anybody in this   room really believe that? Give me a break.” ’