’    ’ ’ The INSIDER Summary  ’ ’   Unless you’re camping in the backcountry, you probably shower   regularly. When on the road, where running water is scarce and   habits are thrown for a loop, that bathing ritual could   disappear. ’ ”   It all sounds innocent enough, but as TwentyTwoWords explains,   the results of skipping a proper shower for a few days are   probably a lot more disturbing than you’d expect. ” ’   Humans are  (about 1, 000 types) and fungus (an   additional 80 kinds). Most of these microbes  combating harmful germs and viruses. But   soap can give the good guys a boost by battling bad bacteria for   them. Without help, bacteria —   —  can   get out of control. They eventually can make their way from your   hands and feet into your eyes, nose, and mouth, potentially   causing illness. ’ ’’ ’   We all know what happens when you don’t take off your makeup or   wash your face: oils and dirt build up, causing breakouts and   irritation (that’s why travelers should really consider stocking   up on beauty wipes). Eczema —  irritating dry, red, itchy patches of   skin —  can be exacerbated by skipping showers. And for people who   decide showering is highly overrated and do away with the entire   ritual, there’s the risk of dermatitis neglecta. According to   Bustle, that’s a scientific way of describing a brown plaque   formed by the   oil and sweat. ’ ’   Perhaps the most immediate (and obvious) consequence of skipping   a few too many showers is the odor. But it’s not just sweat that   makes you stink. The bacteria multiplying on your body produce   gasses as they consume proteins and fatty acids. That is the funk   (as many as 30 distinct smells) you really need to worry about. ’ ’   The exception to all this is   your hair, which can   leave it dry and damaged. Consider swapping a head scrub with a   fabulous dry shampoo. And for travelers on the road without   access to a shower? Dermatologists recommend you still clean your   armpits, groin, and face. These areas are particularly disposed   to  so be sure to pack a great deodorant and power   shower wipes. ’