’  ’ ’   The US House of Representatives on Friday struck the second blow   against the Affordable Care Act, better known as Obamacare. ’ ’   The House passed a resolution Friday that directs committees in   the Senate to draft legislation that would repeal the ACA. ’ ”   The resolution’s passage followed a morning of spirited debate,   including a colorful  from one Republican lawmaker. But both parties   largely stuck to their talking points: Republicans highlighted   increasing premiums and costs, while Democrats focused on   expanded coverage to more than 20 million Americans. ” ’   In the end, the resolution passed 227 to 198, with nine   Republicans and no Democrats crossing party lines. ’ ’   ”By taking this first step toward repealing Obamacare, we are   closer to giving Americans relief from the problems this law has   caused,” House Speaker Paul Ryan said in a statement. ”Too many   families have seen costs soar, quality drop, and choices reduced   to one  —   which just isn’’t a choice at all. This resolution gives   us the tools we need for a    approach to fix these   problems and put Americans back in control of their health care.” ’ ’’ ”   There was a sliver of doubt about the resolution’s passage when   Sen. Rand Paul tried to  over concerns   that repealing the law without a replacement would increase the   federal deficit. Paul was the only Republican to vote against the   resolution in the Senate. ” ”   Despite Paul’s attempted wrangling, the march toward the repeal   of Obamacare continues. ” ’   Republicans are using what is called  to repeal a large part of Obamacare. ’ ’   Budget reconciliation allows lawmakers to pass legislation that   affects the federal budget with a simple majority. In this case,   outlays for things in the ACA such as Medicaid expansion and   funding for the exchanges on which people can sign up for   insurance fit the bill. ’ ’   Trying to pass a bill outside budget reconciliation would allow   Democrats to filibuster any legislation. A filibuster can be   quashed only with a cloture vote, which needs to be approved by   60 senators to pass. (The Senate has 52 Republicans.) ’ ’   So where does the resolution passed by the House on Friday go   next? ’ ’   Relevant committees will convene over the next few weeks to begin   the process of drafting a repeal bill. The resolution has a   provision that directs these committees to come up with a draft   of the repeal bill by January 27. ’ ”   From there, the draft will act like any other bill  —   it’ll go to   a vote on it in the House, where it would need a simple majority   to pass, and then to a vote the Senate, where it can be amended.   If it is amended, then it goes to a conference committee. ” ”   If the Senate adds amendments, the conference committee, made up   of both House and Senate members responsible for drafting the   bill, would come together and create a compromise bill. That bill   would then go through votes in both bodies and, if passed, go to     Donald Trump’s desk for a signature or veto. ” ’   Though the repeal is at the top of the legislative agenda, Trump   is unlikely to put his pen into action on it anytime soon. ’ ’   GOP leaders’’ comments that they want to replace the bill at the   same time they repeal it suggest that a seamless transition may   take time. Ryan has said the law’’s replacement and repeal would   happen ”concurrently,” and Trump has said it will  ’