There is some irony to the fact that Donald J. Trump’s journey to the threshold of the presidency has, in the closing weeks of the election, come back to the doorstep of the man who first catapulted him to national fame. But Mark Burnett, the creator of “The Apprentice,” does not seem amused. Mr. Burnett, one of television’s most powerful figures, is facing growing demands this week that he release footage from the “Apprentice” set that some former crew members say could reveal Mr. Trump acting in vulgar and offensive ways. The outcry has grown to the point where Mr. Burnett, who rarely comments on political matters, felt compelled on Wednesday evening to issue a forceful denunciation of Mr. Trump’s presidential bid, saying he rejected “the hatred, division and misogyny that has been a very unfortunate part of his campaign. ” Mr. Burnett issued his statement on the same night that several women came forward to say they had been groped or assaulted by Mr. Trump, a flood of accusations that continued on Thursday. Their accounts followed a video released last week from 2005 of Mr. Trump and the television host Billy Bush engaging in vulgar talk about women. Now, the clamor for potentially damning “Apprentice” footage has turned into a spectacle worthy of one of Mr. Burnett’s own creations  —   complete with cameos from    personalities like the lawyer Gloria Allred, who led a protest against    this week, and a distinctly Hollywood mixture of political intrigue and corporate  . Mr. Burnett, who has not commented on whether such footage exists, said he did not have the legal right to release “Apprentice” tapes M. G. M. the global entertainment conglomerate that now owns Mr. Burnett’s production company and its archive, says the same. A person familiar with Mr. Trump’s “Apprentice” contract, who spoke on condition of anonymity to describe confidential terms, said M. G. M. would have to obtain Mr. Trump’s permission before releasing unaired footage of him from the show, part of a clause granting Mr. Trump control over the use of his name and likeness. The clause in Mr. Trump’s contract is not unusual in reality television, and M. G. M. said on Wednesday that it intended to honor its agreements. Few Hollywood studios wish to be at the center of a fevered political dispute, and M. G. M. ’s statement did not mention Mr. Trump by name. Still, some critics have wondered if Mr. Burnett  —   whose other hits include “Survivor,” “Shark Tank” and “The Voice”  —   was simply trying to maintain cordial ties with Mr. Trump, who retains a financial interest in the “Apprentice” franchise and whose   skills have generated tens of millions of dollars for Mr. Burnett. (“The Celebrity Apprentice” returns in January on NBC with Arnold Schwarzenegger taking over as host.) Entertainment lawyers interviewed this week wondered if Mr. Trump would have much of a legal case if “Apprentice” footage were released. The “name and likeness” clause is typically invoked if a celebrity’s image is used for profit  —   not as documentary evidence in a presidential campaign. Refusing to release footage “could mean that there are contractual restrictions,” said Jerry Glover, a lawyer in Chicago who has worked on   disputes. “It could also mean Burnett doesn’t want to get on Donald Trump’s bad side,” Mr. Glover added. That is the suspicion of people like Ms. Allred, who marched outside M. G. M. headquarters and declared that Mr. Burnett had “a civic duty” to open his video vault. Online petitions are demanding that the footage be released UltraViolet, a women’s advocacy group, planned to fly a plane over Los Angeles on Thursday with the banner, “M. G. M. NBC, Burnett: Release the Tapes. ” Mr. Burnett denied a report in BuzzFeed News that he had threatened “Apprentice” employees with litigation if any footage were leaked. In a sign that Mr. Burnett was wary of the effect on his public image  —   particularly in his   entertainment milieu  —   his statement began with an emphatic phrase: “I am NOT  . ” Defenders of Mr. Burnett said it was unfair to expect him to step into the role of a journalist, especially if releasing footage meant breaching a contract. There could also be reputational costs: An emergence of damning footage might blemish the valuable “Apprentice” brand. And the   industry, with its susceptibility to spoilers and demands for authenticity, is particularly sensitive to issues of discretion and trust. In interviews this week with more than two dozen people who worked on “The Apprentice,” many expressed disgust at Mr. Trump’s vulgar conversation with Mr. Bush. But none would speak publicly about Mr. Trump’s behavior on the set of “The Apprentice,” citing nondisclosure agreements with steep financial penalties. One “Apprentice” contract from 2005 obtained by The New York Times included a $5 million penalty for contestants who made unauthorized leaks. Former “Apprentice” workers, more accustomed to talk of casting calls than campaign scandals, said they were stunned to find themselves thrust into supporting roles in a presidential election. Many said they were reluctant to discuss their experiences with Mr. Trump out of fear of losing work in an industry where just a whiff of untrustworthiness can persuade a potential employer to call someone else. They also noted a practical problem: There are thousands of hours of footage from “The Apprentice,” most likely stored in hundreds of boxes. Finding scenes with Mr. Trump  —   let alone footage of some kind of damning utterance  —   would be no small task. Mr. Burnett, who has donated to Democratic candidates, is an Englishman who, until now, has been reluctant to discuss Mr. Trump’s political rise. Last month, he was seen smiling awkwardly at the Emmy Awards when Jimmy Kimmel, the comedian, needled him about Mr. Trump from the stage. “Thanks to Mark Burnett, we don’t have to watch reality shows anymore,” Mr. Kimmel quipped. “We’re living in one. ” But Mr. Burnett’s eye for megahits might still soothe any political misgivings expressed by his peers. “Even if it turns out that Burnett’s sitting on Trump video that the public really ought to see, if he keeps on cranking out monster hits, this town won’t shun him,” said Martin Kaplan, who runs the Norman Lear Center for media and society at the University of Southern California. “In this industry,” Mr. Kaplan added, “ratings swing a bigger bat than civics. ”