’  ’ ’   Retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson mostly dodged a question from   Sen. Elizabeth Warren during his Thursday confirmation hearing   for secretary of housing and urban development, making an   unfortunate gaffe along the way. ’ ’   Warren, the Massachusetts Democrat, asked Carson for a ”simple   yes or no” on whether he’’d be able to ensure the Department of   Housing and Urban Development’’s grants and loans did not   financially benefit   Donald Trump’’s businesses. ’ ’   ”If you are confirmed to lead HUD, you will be responsible for   issuing billions of dollars in grants and loans to help develop   housing and provide a lot of   services,” she said.   ”Now, housing development is an area in which     Trump and his family have significant business interests. Can you   assure me that not a single taxpayer dollar that you give out   will financially benefit the   or his family?” ’ ’   Carson said he would ”absolutely not play favors for anyone”   because he is ”driven by a sense of morals and values.” ’ ’   Warren pressed on. ’ ’   ”Can you just assure us that not one dollar will go to benefit   either the   or his family?” she said. ’ ’   ”It will not be my intention to do anything to benefit any   American,” Carson said. He quickly realized the gaffe and fixed   the answer in his subsequent statement, ”It’’s for all Americans,   everything that we do.” ’ ’   ”I will manage things in a way that benefits the American   people,” he further clarified. ”That is going to be the goal.” ’ ’   But Carson still would not provide a yes or no. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”If there happens to be an extraordinarily good program that is   working for millions of people and it turns out that someone that   you’’re targeting is going to gain $10 from it, am I going to say,   ’’No, the rest of you Americans can’’t have it’’?” he said. ”I think   logic and common sense probably would be the best way.” ’ ’   Warren said that the issue was not assurances of the ”$10   varieties, but of   varieties.” ’ ’   ”The reason you can’’t assure us of that is because the     is hiding his family’’s business interests from   you, from me, from the rest of America,” she said. ”And this just   highlights the absurdity and the danger of the  ’’s   refusal to put his assets in a true blind trust.” ’ ’   Warren said Trump is able to ”divert taxpayer money into his own   pockets without anyone knowing,” adding that his Wednesday   announcement that he would transfer his assets to his two eldest   sons was meaningless. ’ ’   A Trump lawyer  for Trump to separate   himself from his business, which included relinquishing   leadership and management of the Trump Organization to his eldest   sons, Donald Trump Jr. and Eric Trump, in addition to another   longtime organization employee. ’ ”   Ethics experts voiced their disapproval of that plan, however,   which was unveiled during Trump’s Wednesday press conference at   Trump Tower. ” ’   ”Tragically, the Trump plan to deal with his business conflicts   announced today falls short in every respect,” Norman Eisen,   former special counsel for ethics and government reform in   President Barack Obama’’s administration, according to The New   Yorker’’s Ryan Lizza. ’ ’ ’ ’Sen. Warren to Dr. Carson: ”You can’’t assure us that HUD money . .. will not end up in the  ’’s pockets” ’