’  ’ ”   It’s not a secret that Google has ambitions to become a hardware   company. ” ’   The tech giant unveiled a  in the fall,   like its first smartphone, the Google Pixel, and connected   speaker, the Google Home. ’ ”   And now the company is taking the same approach with     cars. Waymo, the    company run under Google’s   parent company Alphabet, announced this week that it will       . ” ’   That means all the sensors that   cars rely on  —     radar, lidar, cameras  —   are all being designed and manufactured   at Google where they will be integrated to work together as an   entire    suite. ’ ”   In many ways, it’s a brilliant move by Waymo to reclaim its   position as a leader in the    space, though some   questions remain. ” ’  ’ ”   There’s never really been a question whether Waymo was a   competitor when it came to    software. Its cars   have driven nearly 2. 5 million miles autonomously  —   the   equivalent of 300 years of human driving experience, according to   Waymo. ” ’   Where Waymo has run into problems is figuring out a way to turn   its    moonshot into an actual marketable product. ’ ’   Waymo originally had a grandiose vision to produce a fully   driverless car without a steering wheel or pedals. Although some   engineers on the project pushed Waymo to pursue partial autonomy   like Tesla to start bringing the tech to market, Google     Larry Page has reportedly been opposed to taking that   approach, . ’ ”   But slow progress on the    project prompted   . Chris Urmson,   the CTO of Google’s    unit before it became Waymo,   left in August. He was one of several executive departures    —  Anthony Levandowski, a cofounder of the Google      project, left to start    startup Otto, which is   now owned by Uber. ” ’   During his time at Google,  the Senate to create   regulations that would allow   cars without a steering   wheel or pedals to drive on public roads. ’ ’   While all this was going on, competition continued to mount, most   notably from Uber. Uber launched a pilot program for its     cars in Pittsburgh in September, and has since   launched its second one in Arizona. ’ ’   But Waymo recently made a series of smart moves to avoid getting   eclipsed by the competition. It decided to keep driver controls   in its cars and expanded its partnership with Fiat Chrysler.   Waymo will begin testing   Chrysler minivans in   Arizona and California by the end of January. ’ ’   Waymo is also  about creating a fleet of     cars. ’ ”   Couple that with Waymo’s recent announcement about building     tech entirely in house, you can start to see how   Alphabet is becoming a serious competitor in the autonomous space   again. ” ’  ’ ’   Waymo says designing all of its hardware   has slashed   costs because all of the sensors are designed to work together   (as opposed to combining different    parts to work   together). So far, Waymo has reduced the price of lidar by over   90% to roughly $7, 500, and said the price will continue to drop   as the technology scales. ’ ’   Essentially, Waymo has created a   ecosystem  —     hardware and software  —   that it can integrate into cars easily   through partnerships with automakers. After a summer of executive   departures, Waymo has made serious strides in putting together a   clear path to market. ’ ”   But we will still need to wait and see if Waymo’s approach will   play out accordingly. Alphabet as a whole may be making moves to   become more of a hardware company, but . ” ”   We have yet to see how well Waymo’s hardware ecosystem performs   with its software, as the Chrysler minivans will be the first   vehicles outfitted with the system. Waymo also has yet to launch   a public demo of its   cars, something BMW, Volvo, and   Uber will all do in 2017. ” ’   Still, it looks like Waymo has a much better plan to get to   market than it did just two months ago. ’ ’ This is an opinion column. The thoughts expressed are those   of the author. ’