’From the time a farmer harvests strawberries or green beans, they will last  —   at best  —   three weeks before they start to rot. It takes a week or two to reach the grocery store and then your fridge, giving you only a few days to eat them.’ ”A Santa   startup called  says it has invented edible coatings that can extend a fruit or vegetable’s shelf life by as much as five times. That means, if you spray it on a ripe strawberry that’s starting to wither it will last about a week longer than normal. ” ’Made of leftover plant skins and stems, the coatings act as barriers that slow down the decay process. You can apply it to produce anytime during its lifespan  —   Apeel could even make a bunch of bananas grown at the same time each ripen on a different day.’ ”Six farms in Southern California, Kenya, and Nigeria are using Apeel’s products, CEO James Rogers tells Business Insider.” ’The US Food and Drug Administration ’ ”Here’s how they work.” ’Edipeel keeps water from leaving and oxygen from entering produce, while Invisipeel is for keeping insects away (these are both processes that make produce decay). To get the benefits of both products, you need to apply both.’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ”Produce with Apeel’s products can last an extra two to five days without refrigeration before it starts to rot too, Rogers says. The startup  —   first  by The New York Times  —   is also testing on avocados, tomatoes, and leafy greens.” ’”We don’’t discriminate,” Rogers says.’ ”For example, it takes 30 days for   blueberries to travel to US grocery stores. To keep them fresh, farmers will often coat them in wax and pick them before they’re ripe. Trucks also need to heavily refrigerate them (which requires energy and money).” ”Since Apeel’s   products control the rate of decay, they offer a   solution to preserving produce.” ’The Apeel team is also exploring other possible applications for Edipeel and Invisipeel, including how it could make fabrics   yet breathable.’ ”Apeel aims to sell its products for a price higher than normal produce, but lower than organic, Rogers says. The products could help reduce farming and transportation costs, thus lowering produce’s costs.”