’  ’ ”   DAVOS, Switzerland  —   Three days before Donald Trump is set to be   inaugurated as the 45th US president, a world power with which he   has taken an   adversarial approach has become the   unlikely leader at the world’s most visible gathering of economic   elites. ” ’   Xi Jinping on Tuesday became the first Chinese president to   attend the World Economic Forum in Davos. ’ ’   ”Whether you like it or not, the global economy is the big ocean   you can’’t escape from,” Xi said in delivering the forum’’s opening   plenary speech, introduced by the forum’’s founder and chair,   Klaus Schwab. ’ ”   Xi established himself as an unlikely defender of the     global order that Trump and others have dismissed on the way to   electoral victories. He addressed a crowd full of business   leaders and politicians, but his message was squarely aimed at   one person: Trump, who on the campaign trail excoriated China’s   trade policies and threatened to slap a  on Chinese imports. ” ’   ”No one will emerge as a winner in a trade war,” he said, drawing   applause from the crowd. ’ ’’ ”   China and Xi have taken a leading role at this year’s forum, with   several of the country’s biggest business leaders  —   including   Alibaba’s Jack Ma and Dalian Wanda’s Wang Jianlin  —   and many of   the forum’s panels focusing on China’s evolving role in the   world. ” ”   In an unusual turn of events, Xi’s speech drew a sharp rebuke to   an incoming American administration that has advocated   protectionist trade policies and discussed withdrawing from   global   agreements. He cast globalization as a   solution for various problems in the world, including the refugee   crisis in the Middle East and Africa. He said the financial   crisis resulted not from economic globalization but from   excessive  . ” ’   ”There’’s no point in blaming economic globalization for the   world’’s problems,” Xi said. He spent a portion of his speech   directly warning against the path of protectionism, comparing it   to ”locking oneself in a dark room.” ’ ’   ”While wind and rain may be kept outside, so too are light and   air,” he said. ’ ’   At the same time, representation from the incoming Trump   administration was virtually nonexistent at a forum of global   elites that represents much of what he campaigned against during   his successful presidential run. ’ ’   Anthony Scaramucci, the prominent New York financier who last   week accepted a top post in the White House, was set to speak   later Tuesday at the forum. But he is attending in an unofficial   capacity, according to event organizers. Most of the US   representation at Davos remains from the Obama administration,   including Vice President Joe Biden and Secretary of State John   Kerry. ’ ’   Xi’’s   speech also came at a time of burgeoning   tensions between China and the new US government. Trump  when he   spoke with Taiwan’’s leader, and he has continued to leave open   the US’’s ”One China” policy, which states that Taiwan is part of   a single China. ’ ’   Two leading   newspapers threatened earlier this week   that China would ”take off the gloves” if Trump continued on his   current path with respect to Taiwan, calling the One China policy    . ’