’  ’ ’   To Jesse Karmazin, blood is a drug. ’ ’   His startup, a company called  based in Monterey,   California, is currently enrolling people in the first US   clinical trial designed to find out what happens when the veins   of adults are filled with the blood of young people. ’ ”   In many ways, he’s right about blood’s   qualities. A   simple blood transfusion, which involves hooking up an IV and   pumping the plasma of a healthy person into the veins of someone   who’s undergone surgery or been in a car crash, for example, is   one of the safest   procedures we have. Every year in   the US, nurses perform about  which means about 40, 000 blood transfusions happen on   any given day. ” ’   But Karmazin, who has a medical degree but is not licensed to   practice medicine, wants to take the idea of blood as a drug to a   different level  —   he wants to use transfusions to fight aging. ’ ’   As a medical student at Stanford and an intern at the National   Institute on Aging, Karmazin watched dozens of the procedures   performed safely, he said on a recent phone call. ’ ’   ”Some patients got young blood and others got older blood, and I   was able to do some statistics on it, and the results looked   really awesome,” Karmazin told Business Insider. ”And I thought,   this is the kind of therapy that I’’d want to be available to me.” ’ ”   So far, though, no one knows if blood transfusions can be   reliably linked to a single health benefit in people. And   researchers doubt Karmazin’s trial will come away with sufficient   evidence to point us in that direction. ” ’   ”There’’s just no clinical evidence [that the treatment will be   beneficial] and you’’re basically abusing people’’s trust and the   public excitement around this,” Stanford University   neuroscientist Tony   who led a 2014 study of young   plasma in mice, . ’ ”   For starters, to participate in the trial, you have to pay. And   it isn’t cheap. The procedure, which involves getting 1. 5 liters   of plasma from a donor between the ages of 16 and 25 over the   course of two days, costs $8, 000. ” ’  ’ ’   According to the  Karmazin hopes to enroll   600 people in his trial, which he is conducting with physician   David Wright, who owns a . Before and after the infusion, participants’’   blood will be tested for ”biomarkers,” a variety of measurable   biological substances and processes that are thought to provide a   snapshot of health and disease. ’ ’   So far, Karmazin says he has done the procedure on 30 people. He   says many of them are already seeing benefits, including renewed   focus and improved appearance and muscle tone. ’ ”   But it’s far too early to say if any of these claims are true.   For one thing, when all the data is pooled and tested, it could   end up being statistically insignificant. For another, the   supposed benefits could amount to a placebo effect  —   simply going   to a fancy lab in Monterey and paying to enroll in the study   could have made patients feel better. Whether the blood itself   had any effect on a patient’s health is still up in the air. ” ’   Nevertheless, Karmazin, who was initially inspired by studies on   mice, remains enthusiastically hopeful. ’ ’   ”I’’m really happy with the results we’’re seeing,” he said. ’ ’   Karmazin’’s leading motivation was a series of mouse studies that   involve parabiosis, a  that connects the veins of   two living animals. (The word comes from the Greek words   para, or ”beside,” and bio, or ”life. ”) ’ ’   One such study,  suggested that parabiosis could   rejuvenate a part of the mouse brain where memories are made and   stored. ’ ’   ”I think it is rejuvenation,”   . ”We are restarting the aging clock.” ’ ”   In September 2015, his clinical trial in humans in California   became the first to test the benefits of young plasma in 18   people with Alzheimer’s, but those results have not yet been   released. Some of the funding for that small trial came from a   company that   started, called . ” ”   Other researchers on  ’s team didn’t come to such   conclusions. ” ’   ”We’’re not   animals,” Amy Wagers, a   researcher   at Harvard University, . Instead of turning old tissues into   young ones, Wagers said they were helping repair damage. ”We’’re   restoring function to tissues.” ’