’  ’ ”   House Speaker Paul Ryan and other top Republicans released   statements Tuesday blasting President Barack Obama’s decision to    of WikiLeaks   whistleblower Chelsea Manning’s prison sentence. ” ’   Manning was convicted of violating the Espionage Act, among other   charges, in 2013 after she stole secret documents from a computer   system she had access to while working as an intelligence analyst   in Iraq and leaked them to WikiLeaks in 2010. ’ ’   ”This is just outrageous,” Ryan said in a statement.   ”Chelsea Manning’s treachery put American lives at risk and   exposed some of our nation’s most sensitive secrets. President   Obama now leaves in place a dangerous precedent that those who   compromise our national security won’t be held accountable for   their crimes.” ’ ”   Sen. Tom Cotton, a veteran, also criticized Obama’s decision. ” ’   ”When I was leading soldiers in Afghanistan, Private Manning was   undermining us by leaking hundreds of thousands of classified   documents to WikiLeaks,” he . ”I don’’t understand why the president would   feel special compassion for someone who endangered the lives of   our troops, diplomats, intelligence officers, and allies. We   ought not treat a traitor like a martyr.” ’ ’’ ’   Sen. John McCain, the chairman of the Senate Armed Services   Committee, called the commutation a ”grave mistake.” ’ ’   ”President Obama’’s commutation of Chelsea Manning’’s sentence is a   grave mistake that I fear will encourage further acts of   espionage and undermine military discipline,” McCain said in a   statement. ”It also devalues the courage of real whistleblowers   who have used proper channels to hold our government   accountable.” ’ ’   He continued: ”It is a sad, yet perhaps fitting commentary on   President Obama’s failed national security policies that he would   commute the sentence of an individual that endangered the lives   of American troops, diplomats, and intelligence sources by   leaking hundreds of thousands of sensitive government documents   to Wikileaks, a virulently   organization that was a   tool of Russia’s recent interference in our elections.” ’ ’   Manning received a   sentence for the leak and has   served seven years in Fort Leavenworth. She will now be freed in   five months, on May 17. ’ ’   Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary,  that there’’s a ”pretty   stark difference” between Manning’’s case and that of former   government employee Edward Snowden. ’ ’   ”Chelsea Manning is somebody who went through the military   criminal justice process, was exposed to due process, was found   guilty, was sentenced for her crimes, and she acknowledged   wrongdoing,” Earnest said. ”Mr. Snowden fled into the arms of an   adversary, and has sought refuge in a country that most recently   made a concerted effort to undermine confidence in our   democracy.” ’ ’ Jeremy Berke contributed to this report. ’