’  ’ ”   Two months after   Donald Trump’s upset victory,   top media figures are still publicly reckoning with how many   journalists and outlets failed to seriously comprehend how he   could win. ” ”   During a media and politics event at the New York Public Library   hosted by Civic Hall and the Knight Foundation on Wednesday,   journalists from legacy and new media organizations met to   discuss the role of news outlets in the dawning Trump era,   dissecting why data analysts misjudged Trump’s strength and how   the struggling media economy handicapped reporters’ coverage of   the election. ” ”   Almost every panelist had an easy time identifying the media’s   problems, including the concentration of reporters in urban hubs   like Washington, DC, and New York; the way newsrooms spent their   money; and the willingness of highly skilled reporters to listen   to Hillary Clinton campaign sources about the strength of her   lead. ” ’   Nate Silver, the founder of the   outlet   FiveThirtyEight, blamed Twitter for distorting how reporters   perceived politics. He dismissed the influence of cable news   during the general election and placed the blame on irresponsible     coverage that measured who was winning at any given   moment. ’ ’   ”Cable could be a little bit of a scapegoat because the problems   were a little more pervasive,” Silver said. ”The substance of the     coverage was pretty bad at a lot of very prestigious   papers.” ’ ’   Other reporters from traditional outlets, such as Sally Buzbee,   executive editor of The Associated Press, cited almost   contradictory pressures on modern political reporting. ’ ”   Though Buzbee defended the AP’s   coverage, saying that   it was often the type of reporting readers wanted and campaign   operatives pushed, she blamed other reporters’ lack of polling   literacy for some of the misconceptions about Clinton’s strength. ” ’   ”Does every political reporter understand what a dangerous   weapon, in all its strengths and all its weaknesses, polling is?   No,” Buzbee said. ’ ’   ”How can we actually communicate to normal people who are not   statistics experts the validity and uncertainties in polling in a   much more visceral way?” she added. ’ ’   While Buzbee pondered whether policy reporting was too dry to   resonate with readers, she lamented that aggregated reporting and     blogging may be increasing partisanship and   erasing the nuance delivered in straight reported material. ’ ’   ”There’’s a little bit of a vacancy of people who know how to go   out and get primary information and know how to tell stories and   not just comment on things that are out there,” Buzbee said. ”Not   being slave to clickbait is a challenge to the whole industry.” ’ ”   Beyond the media’s own failures to predict the outcome of the   election, media experts also discussed how antagonizing the media   could remain a cornerstone of Trump’s strategy to undermine   outlets. ” ’   Throughout the 2016 campaign, Trump repeatedly singled out   journalists on Twitter and at rallies whose reporting reflected   negative facts, and he threatened to ”open up the libel laws” to   make it easier to win lawsuits against journalists. ’ ’   the subject of   fake news, Brian Stelter, a host and   senior media correspondent for CNN, acknowledged that he had no     recourse for anonymous figures publishing untruths   about him online. ’ ’   ”I don’’t know how to win in that game of  ” Stelter   said of his battle with fake news. ’ ’  ’ ’   Lynn Oberlander, general counsel for First Look Media, said that   while Trump ”needs the press” and ”reads his coverage very   closely,” he had also taken steps to potentially curtail press   freedoms, including threatening journalists and talking about   moving the press briefing room outside of the White House. ’ ’   ”  Trump has shown tremendous hostility to the   institutional press and also, of course, individual journalists,   but he is very much a creature of the media,” Oberlander said.   ”There are, however, substantial threats to press freedom.” ’ ’   Media experts at the event agreed that educating readers on how   to consume media was vital. ’ ’   Amalie Nash, a USA Today executive editor, said readers have a   tendency to assume that the opinions featured in the editorial   section were shared by reporters. She said newsrooms need to   consider ”how we handle opinion content.” ’ ’   Silver said he’’d ”almost want to ask readers to pass a stats   test” to read articles about polling in the weeks leading up to a   general election, arguing that readers need a greater   understanding of the significance of data. ’ ’   Stelter took a different road, stressing that journalists need to   understand they are often in the business of media literacy,   helping readers understand how to consume news. ’ ’   ”Before the election, there was a failure of imagination,”   Stelter said of America’’s capacity to elect Trump. ”Let’’s not   make that mistake again.” ’ ’   While the problems were numerous, the proposed solutions were far   sparer. ’ ’   Nash said USA Today planned to keep closer tabs on the electorate   by focusing on stories about the lives and problems of Americans   in a series called ”Healing America.” Buzbee acknowledged that   the AP’’s journalists experienced a ”mindset shift” about how   their own coverage was perceived by readers. ’ ’   Stelter said that while  on its platform were a   ”huge leap forward from where the company was a year ago,” the   media was engaged in a battle over web links, which Stelter   argued had become ”weapons” for partisans to perpetuate   ideological agendas. ’ ”   Others acknowledged that readers would always be drawn to more   sensational stories and that it was the media’s job to prevent   them from becoming distracted. ” ”   Zeynep Tufekci, a media commentator and professor at the   University of North Carolina, said America needs to more   radically change readers’ consumption habits by shifting demand.   Tufekci compared   political coverage and clickbait to   children’s temptation to eat candy instead of vegetables. ” ’   ”This is a moment of great failure for our elites,” Tufekci said,   proposing media organizations embrace subscription models.   ”Unless we find a way to pay directly for things we value, I   think we are going to keep having these discussions.” ’ ”   While most journalists at Wednesday’s event reflected the dire   mood of the political press, Stelter said he saw a bright spot in   the   on display in newsrooms and at media panels. ” ’   ”I see newsrooms becoming louder, becoming forceful,” Stelter   said, noting that more journalists were also more concerned about   press ethics and journalistic freedoms. ”Journalists are talking   about these issues in a way that they weren’’t three, four, five   years ago.” ’