’  ’ ’ The INSIDER Summary: ’ ’   Every frequent traveler has their own tricks for booking the   best and cheapest flight possible. ’ ’   Luckily, some were willing to share their secrets on   a  that asked, ”what are the best   flight booking hacks?” ’ ’   Keep scrolling for some tips and tricks that may make all   the difference. ’ ”   Quora user  who has 45, 000 miles in the sky   under his belt, says that when he’s booking flights he makes sure   to check travel search engines like     and    as well as airlines’ websites. ” ’   Going that extra step ensures getting the best deal out   there. Plus, many travel search engines allow you to set price   alerts for certain flights, which is a great way to keep   track of fares. ’ ”   However, keep in mind that when you book directly through an   airline’s website and your flight gets canceled, you’ll have   an easier time dealing with the airline  —   and getting rebooked  —     than you would if you had booked through a travel search   engine. ” ’  ’ ”   This may seem like an obvious one, but nonstop flights are   typically more expensive than flights with layovers. So if you’re   looking for the cheapest possible option, Udayakumar says to   consider booking a flight with a layover. ” ”   Even better, look for a layover that’s long enough to allow you   to leave the airport  —   it’s like taking two trips in one. ” ”   According to Udayakumar, travel agencies and airlines often use   your computer’s cookies to determine what kind of flight you’re   interested in booking. Once they discover what you’re looking   for, they’ll often raise prices accordingly. ” ’   To prevent this from happening, you can either clear your browser   cache or just open an incognito tab before starting the booking   process. ’ ’  ’ ”   This hack is better suited for risk takers, as   it involves gambling with airlines. Udayakumar suggests   booking a cheap flight with a super short connection time that’s   almost impossible to make. ” ”   Before you even board your first flight, tell a gate agent   that you’re worried about not making your connection, and ask   them if they can rebook you onto a (more expensive) direct flight   to your destination. ” ”   If it works, you just scored yourself a direct flight for a great   price. If it doesn’t, well, you’re stuck with a connection   you probably won’t make. ” ”   According to Quora user  a frequent flyer with Star Alliance   and a Lufthansa eXperts member, some airlines you probably   haven’t heard often offer the cheapest fares for   transatlantic flights. ” ’   Keane suggests checking  and . ’ ’  ’ ”   Flight prices differ widely from country to country, says Quora   user and avid traveler . Often  so pretending you’re booking from, say, India,   instead of the US, can make all the difference. ” ”   There are two ways to go about this. Let’s say you’re   flying from LA to Delhi, you can either go to   www. airindia. in (instead of . com)  —     this also works for travel search engine sites  —   or mask your   computer’s IP address by using an Indian VPN to make it seem like   you’re located in India. Just know that you’ll be purchasing that   flight in rupees, so make sure to use a card without foreign   transaction fees. ” ’   There is also the risk of accidentally booking a   ” ” fare  —   meaning it can only be used by locals  —     but more often than not nobody checks to make sure that you   are, in fact, a local. ’ ’   Quora user  refers to this hack as   ”hidden city ticketing.” Here’’s the example Srivastava uses to   explain the trick: Say you’’re flying from New York to Chicago and   you find a cheap flight that goes from New York to Kentucky, but   with a layover in Chicago (chances are a flight like this will be   cheaper than a nonstop flight from New York to Chicago). Book   that flight and then just disembark in Chicago (don’’t   board the connecting flight to Kentucky). ’ ”   While doing this isn’t technically illegal, many airlines   don’t allow it, and will even fine you. There are websites   t ” ’   Srivastava explains that the ”fifth freedom refers to   the right for an airline to carry revenue traffic between two   foreign countries as part of a service connecting the airline’s   home country.” ’ ”   Here’s what that means in layman’s terms: Generally,   airlines fly between their home country and other countries, but   occasionally, because of layovers, they will have flights   between two foreign countries. For example, a flight   operated by Singapore Airlines from New York to Singapore with a   layover in Frankfurt is a fifth freedom flight, because neither   New York nor Frankfurt are the airline’s home country (that   would be Singapore). ” ’   Why look out for these? While not necessarily cheaper,  than what you would usually find on these routes. ’ ’   Airlines are usually not allowed to list these fares on their   website or on travel search engines, however,    has a comprehensive  of such flights. ’ ’  ’ ’   Turns out waking up at the crack of dawn for an early flight is   worth it. Quora user  highlights a few reasons why. ’ ”   First, if your flight is canceled you can easily be moved to a   later flight. If you book the last flight of the day and it gets   canceled, you’re stuck until the next day. ” ’   Second, if you book a flight that gets you to your   destination early, and that flight is oversold, you can  and then get rebooked   onto a later flight, while   also receiving . ’ ”   While booking a round trip ticket in and out of the   same city might seem like the easiest, most logical way   to go, Quora user  says that it’s not always the cheapest. Sometimes,   booking two one way tickets that arrive in and depart from   different cities can save you a lot of money. ” ”   For example, let’s say you’re flying from Chicago to Düsseldorf,   Germany. Maybe you fly into Düsseldorf, but then fly back to   Chicago out of Cologne, since the two airports are only about a   45 minute drive from each other. So make sure to always   research nearby airports. ” ’   If the first search you perform for a flight is for multiple   seats, the airline might hike up prices, McCoy says. So   instead, start by searching for a flight for just one person, and   look into booking for multiple people later. ’ ’   ”Trading or buying a few extra miles might be all you need to   earn a travel reward,” McCoy says.  lets you do both of those things, and it’’s worth   checking out. ’