’  ’ ’   Esteban Santiago, who was arrested on charges of killing five   people and injuring six more in a shooting earlier this month at   Fort   International Airport, said he carried   out the attack on behalf of the Islamic State, . ’ ”   FBI special agent Michael Ferlazzo and other agents testified at   Santiago’s bond hearing on Tuesday, and Ferlazzo said Santiago   had claimed to have spoken with other purported jihadis in   chatrooms and websites inspired by the Islamic State, the   terrorist group also known as ISIS or ISIL. ” ’   Ferlazzo did not specify whether Santiago claimed he was working   directly with ISIS or had only been influenced by the group,   according to CNN. ’ ’   He testified that after the shooting Santiago said his mind was   under some form of government control. ’ ’   Santiago is charged with using and carrying a firearm during and   in relation to a crime of violence, performing an act of violence   against a person at an airport serving international civil   aviation that caused serious bodily injury, and causing the death   of a person through the use of a firearm. He could receive the   death penalty for the last two charges against him and a maximum   of life in prison for the first. ’ ’’ ”   Santiago had been on the FBI’s radar for weeks before the attack   in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. FBI spokesman George Piro  that Santiago walked into an FBI office in Anchorage,   Alaska, in November and told authorities that voices in his head   were telling him to join ISIS. ” ’   Santiago was taken into custody at the time, admitted to a   facility for medical evaluation, and given antianxiety   medications, according to the Associated Press. ’ ’   He was released from the facility after five days without any   restrictions that might prevent him from buying or owning a   firearm. ’ ’   A 9 mm handgun that authorities say Santiago checked into his   baggage and used to carry out the shooting was the same as one   that police officers in Anchorage had seized and later returned   to Santiago, Ferlazzo said. ’ ”   At the hearing on Tuesday, Assistant US District Attorney Rick   Del Toro said Santiago was a flight risk and a danger to the   community. Santiago’s attorney, Robert Berube, did not refute the   claim and said his defendant was prepared to be detained   throughout the trial, according to CNN. ” ’   Judge Lurana Snow ruled that Santiago be held without bond. His   next hearing is scheduled for January 30. ’