’  ’ ’   In many ways, Tim Ferriss carries on a tradition     by Tony Robbins: finding people at the top of their fields,   determining what makes them tick, and then passing those insights   to a general audience. ’ ’   After Ferriss, who authored bestseller ”,”  for his podcast, he enrolled in one of   Robbins’’ seminars  —   the   ”,” with admission starting at around $800  —     to get an experience of the events that made Robbins famous. ’ ’   Ferriss wrote in his book ”” that his friend Navin Thukkaram, a successful   investor and entrepreneur, has attended Unleash the Power Within   11 times, and considered a particular exercise to ”his main   reason for attending every year.” ’ ”   The Dickens Process, as the exercise is called, is done in a   venue typically packed with a few thousand people, and while   Ferriss said the crowd atmosphere and Robbins’ presence onstage   enhances the experience, the basics can be completed on one’s   own. ” ’   The exercise gets its name from Charles Dickens’’ ”A Christmas   Carol,” where Scrooge is visited by ghosts showing him a look at   his past, present, and future. ’ ’   ”In the Dickens Process, you’’re forced to examine limiting   beliefs  —   say your top two or three handicapping beliefs  —   across   each tense,” Ferriss wrote. Then, take a look at each belief in   depth and answer the following questions, as remembered by   Ferriss: ’ ’  ’ ’   After going through the pain of dwelling on your handicapping   beliefs, Ferriss wrote, you then create new beliefs to replace   them. ’ ’   Ferriss shared one of his responses: ”One of my top three   limiting beliefs was ’’I’’m not hardwired for happiness,’’ which I   replaced with ’’Happiness is my natural state. ’’” ’ ’   Ferriss said the exercise lasts about 30 minutes and leaves the   majority of the audience emotional. He followed up with Robbins   months after he attended the event to ask him why the Dickens   Process was so effective. ’ ’   ”When we feel pain in one time zone  —   meaning past, present, or   future  —   we just switch to another time zone rather than change,   because change brings so much uncertainty and so much instability   and so much fear to people,” Robbins said. The exercise prevents   you from escaping yourself. ’ ’   He wrote that in the year following the Dickens Process, ”I’’ve   never felt consistently happier in my entire adult life.” ’ ’   ”It’’s incredible what can happen when you stop driving with the   emergency brake on,” he said. ’ ’   Ferriss visited Business Insider’’s New York office to discuss   ”Tools of Titans” and answer audience questions in a Facebook   Live segment, which you can watch below. ’ ’ ’