WASHINGTON  —   The Justice Department said Thursday that it would start collecting nationwide data early next year on police shootings and other violent encounters with the public, after a series of protests and investigations since 2014 spurred by a string of deadly episodes. The project, the most ambitious the federal government has undertaken in tracking the use of force by police officers, is meant to fill what officials say is a huge and frustrating void in publicly available data on the shootings that have roiled the country. Under the plan, the Justice Department will gather more data on the use of force by federal agents and help local departments report information on a wider range of police encounters. But a number of the reporting steps will rely on local police officials to voluntarily submit data, and some civil rights advocates said the Justice Department had not made clear how it would impose financial penalties set by Congress to encourage the reporting of police shootings. “I can’t believe two years into this crisis that we’re still having conversations about data,” said Kanya Bennett, a lawyer in Washington for the American Civil Liberties Union, which met with the Justice Department to discuss the plan. With President Obama leaving office in three months, Ms. Bennett said, “this is essentially being punted to the next administration. ” After a series of fatal encounters in places like Ferguson, Mo. Charlotte, N. C. Tulsa, Okla. Baton Rouge, La. Cleveland Milwaukee Baltimore and Staten Island  —   many involving unarmed black men and caught on video  —   officials have struggled to gather basic information about how often such episodes occur and what can be done. The most comprehensive records on police shootings have come from the news media, particularly The Washington Post and The Guardian, which have created running databases. James B. Comey, the director of the F. B. I. told lawmakers last year that it was “embarrassing” that the news media could produce better data than his own agency on such an important issue. “We can’t have an informed discussion because we don’t have data,” Mr. Comey told the House Judiciary Committee last October. “People have data about who went to a movie last weekend, or how many books were sold, or how many cases of the flu walked into the emergency room,” he said, “and I cannot tell you how many people were shot by police in the United States last month, last year, or anything about the demographic. And that’s a very bad place to be. ” According to the Post database, 991 people were fatally shot by the police last year, and 754 have been so far this year. Under the Justice Department plan, the F. B. I. is to begin a pilot program early next year to assemble data on the use of force by about 178, 000 agents at major federal law enforcement agencies including the Drug Enforcement Administration, the Marshals Service, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, and the F. B. I. itself. In addition, the Justice Department plans to begin collecting data from local and state law enforcement departments on “in custody” deaths  —   not just in shootings, but in cases of suicide and natural death as well. A measure passed by Congress in 2014 called the Death in Custody Reporting Act required local departments to report only fatal encounters. Justice Department officials said they would rely on local police officials to voluntarily report nonlethal encounters as well. Under a third part of the plan, the Justice Department said it was authorizing $750, 000 for a “police data initiative” designed to help local departments collect and publicly release information on a wider range of actions, including stops of citizens, searches, the use of force, shootings and other encounters. Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch said in announcing the plan Thursday that comprehensive and accurate data on police encounters was essential in “increasing transparency and building trust between law enforcement and the communities we serve. ” Lacking better data has made it “very, very hard” to determine the causes of police shootings, or even whether there was an actual increase in such episodes or simply more publicity about them, Ms. Lynch said at an event Thursday night at Georgetown University. The law passed by Congress in 2014 for reporting   deaths allows the attorney general to impose financial penalties on states that do not report data. But Ms. Bennett, the A. C. L. U. lawyer, faulted the Justice Department for failing to explain how that would happen under the new plan. In a letter to the Justice Department last week, the A. C. L. U. and 95 other groups pushing for greater accountability in police shootings wrote that imposing financial penalties was critical to the success of the program. In the past, the letter said, “voluntary reporting programs on   encounters have failed. ” The steps announced by the Justice Department grew out of a presidential commission appointed by Mr. Obama in 2014 to study ways of reducing conflict and tensions between police departments and the communities they serve. Announcing a series of recommendations from the commission in March 2015, Mr. Obama said that the country needed to seize the opportunity to “transform”   relations. “We have a great opportunity, coming out of some great conflict and tragedy, so that everybody feels safer and our law enforcement officers feel, rather than being embattled, feel fully supported,” he said,