’  ’ ”   With the right infrastructure investments, it’s possible to make   highway traffic in the US disappear in as little as five years,   Logan Green, Lyft’s CEO, told Business Insider in a recent   interview.  ” ’   ”If we set a big enough goal and make the right investments in   this moment, five years from now it is easily foreseeable that   we’ve completely achieved this goal and there is no more traffic   on our highway system,” Green said. ’ ’   These “right investments,” though, aren’t what you might expect.   Green doesn’t want to widen highways to kill traffic. Instead, he   wants the government to invest in a nationwide expansion of   ‘smart lanes,’ which are basically carpool lanes that charge   vehicles with less than three passengers for access. ’ ’   Green, along with Lyft   and president John Zimmer,   published an  on Tuesday outlining how exactly this might work, but   basically, the   propose that by building out more      thus reducing traffic. ’ ’   ”These smart lanes will have dynamic pricing to control for   congestion, so they will be able to guarantee that that road can   flow at 45 miles per hour or 50 miles per hour minimum. You then   create a free option, so you say any person with three or more   people in their car gets in this lane for free,” Green said.   ”Those dual incentives will create an environment that will   encourage all kinds of   commuting.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Lyft obviously has a vested interest in  . In addition   to its   service, the company also offers a     product called Lyft Line that allows people to   easily carpool to their destinations. ’ ”   Green said that Lyft is pushing this initiative forward, though,   because current solutions to reducing traffic are not working and   don’t provide a sustainable solution for the future.  ” ’  ’ ’   Green said Lyft is currently in discussions with policymakers   about its ideas to reduce traffic and that, for the most part,   government officials have been receptive.  ’ ’   ”We are reaching out and having conversations with the Trump   administration and then a number of different policymakers on   both sides of the aisles,” Green said. “There is a lot of    . ” ’ ’   The idea of congestion charging isn’t exactly new. Cities like   London, Singapore, and Stockholm have all experimented with   similar models. In fact, Stockholm saw a 22% decrease in traffic   volume when it implemented a trial for congestion charging in   2006. ’ ”   But Lyft’s plan is different in that it offers a free option for   vehicles that have multiple passengers, Green said. This not only   encourages   but it also helps democratize access to   this system, he said.  ” ’   ”Where a number of these projects have fallen short is in terms   of having a free option. That is sort of not a consistent   ingredient of these plans and I think that’s critical to create   the right incentives and to create the right political support,”   Green said. ’ ’   ”You don’t want these lanes to be something that only the wealthy   can afford. You want to create the right incentives so that   everybody can enjoy a lane that is guaranteed to never have   traffic and by having a free option along with every smart lane   you broaden the base of people who are going to be able to enjoy   it.” ’