’  ’ ’   Treasury secretary nominee Steven Mnuchin failed to disclose   about $100 million in assets and a number of business   directorships to the Senate until the night before his   confirmation hearing. ’ ”   Democrats on the Senate Finance Committee jumped on this mistake   during Mnuchin’s confirmation hearing, saying that he was   attempting to hide assets from his disclosure forms. ” ’   Among the assets that Mnuchin failed to disclose included real   estate in New York City, Los Angeles, and Mexico. ’ ’   Additionally, Mnuchin failed to disclose his role as director of   a number of investment funds including a subsidiary of his hedge   fund based in the Cayman Islands and another in Anguilla. ’ ’   Democrats used the disclosure to question both Mnuchin’’s honesty   as well as his qualification as a representative of the American   public, contrasting him with Trump’’s repeated promise to ”drain   the swamp.” ’ ’’ ”   Democratic Sen. Ron Wyden said that Mnuchin failed to disclose   these holdings until Wyden’s staff brought them to the nominee’s   attention. ” ’   ”This was not  . The only reason it came to light   was my staff found it and told you that it had to be corrected,”   said Wyden, the ranking member on the committee. ’ ’   Mnuchin defended himself by saying that the omission was due to   the complexities of the disclosure forms. ’ ’   ”I think as you all can appreciate filling out these government   forms is quite complicated,” said Mnuchin. ”There were many   things I expected in this job including having to sell   everything, but the amount of paperwork in filling out the forms   . .. was quite a job.” ’ ’   Mnuchin went on to say that ”any oversight was unintentional” in   regard to omitted assets. ’ ’   Additionally, Mnuchin defended the Cayman Island and Anguilla   holding companies by saying the shell companies were created for   his hedge fund to allow certain types of investments for pension   funds and nonprofits. The Treasury nominee said he did not   benefit from the setup. ’ ’   ”Let me just be clear again: I did not use a Cayman Island entity   in any way to avoid taxes for myself,” said Mnuchin. ”I paid US   taxes on all that income. So there was no benefit to me from the   Cayman entity.” ’ ’   The rest of the hearing was equally as contentious with Democrats   and some Republicans hitting  at a bank owned by his fund,    and  ’ ”   This is also the second day in a row a Trump nominee was   questioned for investment disclosures. Trump’s Health and Human   Services secretary nominee Tom Price was  in healthcare companies   during his time in Congress during his testimony on Wednesday. ” ’Treasury secretary nominee Steven Mnuchin. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’