’  ’ ’   Billionaire hedge fund manager George Soros on Thursday   reiterated his belief that   Donald Trump is ”an   imposter and con man and a   dictator.” ’ ’   Soros, 86, said at the  Switzerland, that he is   convinced the   will fail. ’ ’   ”He stands for that other form of government, which is the   opposite of an open society,” said Soros, who is a Holocaust   survivor and Hungarian immigrant. ”It’’s really better described   as a dictatorship or a mafia state.” ’ ’   Soros said Trump ”would be a dictator if he could get away with   it,” but that US institutions are strong enough to prevent that   scenario. He also said the ideas that guide Trump are ”inherently    ” and that those contradictions are ”embodied   by his advisers.” ’ ’   Uncertainty, he said, is ”at a peak” right now. ’ ’’ ’   ”It’’s impossible to predict exactly how Trump is going to act   because he hasn’’t actually thought it through,” Soros said. ”He   didn’’t expect to win. . .. He was engaged in building his brand.” ’ ’   Asked how the business community should deal with Trump going   forward, Soros said, ”I will keep as far away from it as I can.” ’ ’   On the topic of international relations and global trade, Soros   said China would be ”greatly helped” by Trump. ’ ’   ”I think Trump will do more to make China acceptable as a leading   member of the international community than the Chinese could do   by themselves,” he said. ’ ’   This isn’’t the first time Soros has spoken out against Trump. He   described the   in similar terms . He said Trump’’s proposed Cabinet ”comprises   incompetent extremists and retired generals” and that the US   would ”be unable to protect and promote democracy in the rest of   the world.” ’ ”   The billionaire investor supported Hillary Clinton during her   presidential campaign and donated millions to a   PAC.   He also donated to Clinton’s campaign in 2008. ” ”   Soros  after Trump’s political victory,   according to The Wall Street Journal, having made bearish bets   that later came back to bite him. Still, his fund gained 5% over   2016, according to The Journal. ”