’  ’ ’   By Svea   ’ ”   BOSTON, Jan 20 (Reuters)   U. S. President Donald Trump’s policies   could lead to more violent stock market movements, something   prominent hedge fund manager Lee Ainslie said could help his   portfolio rebound after a lousy 2016. ” ”   Ainslie’s $11 billion Maverick Capital missed out on a rally   sparked by Trump’s unexpected election in November and ended the   year with double digit losses in its biggest funds,   underperforming the broader stock market and most hedge funds. ” ’   But the manager, a protege of storied industry investor Julian   Robertson, wrote to investors in a letter dated Jan. 17 and seen   by Reuters on Friday, that he was confident his firm will make   money this year. Stocks that ran up could fall back and bets   against some retail stocks will pay off, he said. ’ ’   ”Maverick has a long and consistent history of generating strong   returns after periods of loss,” the letter said. ’ ’’ ’   The Maverick Fund LDC lost 10. 6 percent and the Maverick Levered   fund fell 20. 9 percent. ’ ”   Rising prices and tight labor markets could threaten economic   growth and Trump’s uncertain foreign policy plans, trade and tax   policies could translate into more stock market gyrations,   Ainslie wrote. ” ’   ”Did I mention that the   has a habit of sending   random and sometimes bizarre tweets in the early morning hours?”   the letter said. ”Such uncertainty on a vast range of critical   issues will likely breed higher volatility in the equity   markets.” ’ ”   Ainslie’s call for more stock market volatility seems currently   out of step with other observers and recent market behavior. The   VIX, which measures volatility, has been running below its   historical average in January. But markets can reverse fast. ” ’   ”The market’’s perspective on expected volatility can change   quickly and violently . .. we believe we are   to   endure a higher volatility environment,” Ainslie wrote. ’ ”   Maverick’s largest positions included computer software company   Adobe Systems Inc, social media company Facebook Inc,   biopharmaceutical company Pfizer Inc and discount travel company   Priceline Group Inc. ” ’   He did not identify the retailers he is betting against and   cautioned that it was not a simple ”assessment of the ecommerce   vs. bricks and mortar Battle Royale.” ”We no longer believe the   theme is ”Short Retail”. We are now in the early innings of what   we believe is called ”  Evolution” and stock selection   has never been more important,” he wrote. ’ ’   Despite losses, Ainslie said investors stuck with the firm and   added new money every month in 2016. (Reporting by Svea    ; Editing by David Gregorio) ’