’  ’ ’   Donald John Trump was inaugurated on Friday as the 45th president   of the United States. ’ ’   He took the oath of office in front of the Capitol just after   noon Eastern time. ’ ’   The      magnate beat his Democratic rival   Hillary Clinton in a shocking victory in the 2016 election, and   he will start off his administration with Republicans controlling   both the House of Representatives and the Senate. ’ ’   Hundreds of thousands of people flocked to Washington, DC, for   the big event, and Trump has been    the inauguration festivities on his Twitter account for days. ’ ’   Trump signed several executive orders shortly after his    . ’ ’   Immediately after his inauguration, Trump delivered his inaugural   address. ’ ’   ”Today we are not merely transferring power from one   administration to another, or from one party to another, but we   are transferring power from Washington, DC, and giving it back to   you, the people,” Trump said. ’ ’   ”For too long, a small group in our nation’’s capital has reaped   the rewards of our nation’’s government while our people have   borne the cost.” ’ ’   Trump attacked the Washington establishment throughout his speech   and focused his praise on the American people. ’ ’   ”This moment is your moment. It belongs to you,” Trump said. ”It   belongs to everyone gathered here today and everyone watching all   across America. This is your day. This is your celebration. And   this, the United States of America, is your country.” ’ ’   Trump said his inauguration would be remembered as the day ”the   people became the rulers of this nation again.” ’ ’   ”The forgotten men and women of our country will be forgotten no   longer,” Trump said. ”Everyone is listening to you now.” ’ ’   Trump described the poverty, job loss, and crime that he said   plagued the country. ’ ’   ”This American carnage stops right here and stops right now,” he   added. ’ ”   He commented on foreign policy and the economy, saying the US’s   military and wealth had been depleted at the expense of other   countries. ” ’   ”We’’ve defended other nations’’ borders while refusing to defend   our own and spent trillions and trillions of dollars overseas   while America’’s infrastructure has fallen into disrepair and   decay,” Trump said. ”We’’ve made other countries rich while the   wealth, strength, and confidence of our country has dissipated   over the horizon.” ’ ’   Trump described American factories shutting down and jobs moving   overseas. ’ ’   ”But that is the past,” he said. ”And we are now looking to the   future.” ’ ’   He also touted his ”America first” motto that seemed to inform   much of his foreign and domestic policy throughout his campaign. ’ ’   ”From this day forward, it’’s going to be only America first,” he   said. ”Every decision on trade, on taxes, on immigration, on   foreign affairs will be made to benefit American workers and   American families.” ’ ’   Trump also pushed a message of unity at a time when the country   is bitterly divided on partisan lines. ’ ’   ”Whether we are black or brown or white, we all bleed the same   red blood of patriots,” he said. ’ ’   Using his campaign slogan, Trump ended his address by saying that   ”together, we will make America great again.” ’ ’ ’ ’President Trump: ”We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again. And, yes, together, we will make America great again.” ’