’  ’ ”   In Consumer Reports’ most recent Annual Auto Reliability Survey,   the watchdog publication has observed a troubling pair of   complaints among vehicle owners and CR subscribers in 2016. ” ’   Advanced infotainment systems and more   multispeed   transmissions are causing problems. ’ ’   Neither issue should surprise anyone. In just about a decade,   vehicles have gone from having radios, tape decks, and CD players   to having complicated touchscreen infotainment interfaces that   manage everything from GPS navigation to audio to smartphone   integration.  ’ ’   Most automakers develop their own infotainment systems, and some   work far better than others. But even with the ones that cause   limited trouble, the kinks are still being worked out. ’ ”   At Business Insider, we test out numerous infotainment systems,   and while we don’t much care for the less   versions,   we don’t usually have the vehicles long enough to see a lot of   glitches. Every so often, however, we sample one that’s a huge   pain to make work properly or that freezes up  —   or is utterly   frustrating to negotiate. ” ’   The more   transmissions are a different story.   While     automatics used to be common  —   and were quite   reliable  —   newer     and   units have been introduced   in recent years. The additional speeds or gearings, in concert   with sophisticated   computers, enable cars to   serve up better MPGs. ’ ’   That is, when they work properly. ’ ”   Lately, we’ve found that some   and   to misbehave when   driving. Again, we don’t test our sample cars to failure. But we   can see that this might be a point of irritation for owners. ” ’  ’ ”   What’s disturbing about this is that the pace of infotainment   development isn’t slowing down. A great deal more tech is being   foisted on consumers  —   both because it’s possible and because car   buyers are demanding it. And automakers are up against more   stringent future   standards for their fleets, to they   have to come up with ways to increase MPGs overall, especially of   they want to keep selling highly profitable big pickups and SUVs. ” ”   The auto industry has made tremendous strides in reliability over   the past two decades, to the point that there aren’t really any   truly bad cars anymore.  ” ”   But if this arms race on infotainment persists, and if carmakers   can’t come up with more basic ways to improve fuel economy, then   the industry runs the risk of rolling back some of its     reliability gains. ”