’  ’ ’   On Friday, Donald Trump will be inaugurated as the 45th president   of the US. ’ ’   In preparation, Trump and his transition team have been working   expeditiously to fill the roughly 4, 000 positions that will be   vacant when the Obama administration leaves. ’ ’   But there are a few   staff positions that Trump will   not choose: White House permanent residence staffers. ’ ’   These are the butlers, chefs, valets, groundskeepers, and others   who keep the White House running smoothly from day to day. They   prepare state dinner banquet rooms, feed the first family, and   are available for any request, small or large, that may arise. ’ ’   And unlike policy staff members, they aren’’t replaced when a new   first family enters the White House. In fact, some stay for   decades, assisting one president to the next. Eugene Allen, for   example, was a butler from 1952 to 1986 and was the inspiration   for the 2013 film ”The Butler.” ’ ’   The group is characteristically   about what it’’s like   to work for the president and their family. The clearest glimpse   into the life of a residence staffer comes from the 2015 book   ”,” by   Kate Brower. ’ ’  ’ ’   Brower interviewed more than 100 former staff members for her   book, noting how rare it was to get such intimate details about   the jobs. ’ ’   ”There’’s an unwritten rule that they stay in the background,”   . ”Unlike a lot of   people in Washington, they don’’t talk about their jobs.” ’ ’   There are 96   and 250   residence staffers,   according to Bower. They work throughout the   White   House, which contains 28 fireplaces, eight staircases, six   floors, and two   levels. ’ ’  ’ ’   And their jobs are incredibly demanding, a former White House   executive chef explained in the book. ’ ’   ”You work for the same people every day. You don’’t have any   personal life, family, social life,” he said. ”You work what we   used to call ’’White House flex time’’  —   that is, you choose any 85   hours you want to work each week.” ’ ’   Still, they are devoted to the families in the White House,   regardless of which candidate they voted for. ’ ’   ”I was an independent Republicrat,” Worthington White, a White   House usher from 1980 to 2012, told Brower in a . ”I would say I   voted for the president, no matter who it was.” ’ ’   And some of their toughest work comes on Friday, when they will   have about five or six hours to turn over the White House for the   incoming president. Michelle and Barack Obama will head to the   inauguration, and at noon, the White House is no longer their   home. ’ ’  ’ ”   Still, being a permanent staffer at the White House doesn’t mean   there is no risk of being replaced. Their employment is still at   the discretion of the president. ” ”   Trump’s team may be willing to shake up the staff. For example,   the team  Charles Brotman   earlier in January via email. ” ’   ”I looked at at my email, then I got the shock of my life,”   . ”I felt like Muhammad Ali had hit me in the   stomach.” ’ ’   Brotman was the announcer for the past 11 presidents and has been   at every inauguration parade since 1957. ’ ”   Some staffers apparently worried in April about the fate of their   jobs if Trump won the election, according to Brower’s . Former top pastry chef Roland Mesnier   told Brower that he would be nervous if he were still working   there. ” ’   ”If the Donald makes it to the White House, I think there’’s going   to be a lot of changes,” said Mesnier, who served five presidents   from Jimmy Carter to George W. Bush. ”I think the White House as   we know it and the kitchen will be totally different.” ’