’  ’ ”   Richard Spencer, a   and leader of the  was punched in the face by a protester in   Washington D. C. following Trump’s inauguration. ” ’   Spencer was posing for a photograph at the corner of 14th and K   Street around 2:30 p. m. when a masked person approached and   punched Spencer twice in the face. ’ ’   ”Someone ran up behind him and clocked him in the face. Somebody   in a mask. Spencer kept talking,” a witness told . ”Then it happened again.” ’ ’   ”You hate black black people!” another protester on the scene   yelled, reports .  ’ ’   ”I don’’t hate black people,” Spencer replied, as another   protestor ran up and spat in Spencer’’s face, the publication   said.   ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tRichard Spencer just got punched in the face (twice!)   ’ ’   The witness told Jezebel that Spencer is likely going to have ”a   big face tomorrow.” ’ ’   Spencer was then ushered into a cab by his assistant. ’ ’ ’ ”Richard Spencer got punched in the face during the protests at Trump’s  ” ’   Protests  throughout the day  —   resulting   in more than 90 arrests  —   though most of the protesters were   peaceful. ’ ’   Spencer himself  on Friday afternoon, saying he was   ”physically assaulted twice by antifas” (short for     protesters). ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tI was just physically assaulted twice by antifas. No serious damage. I can take a punch. ’t’t’ ’   Spencer emerged as a prominent Trump supporter during the chaotic   2016 presidential election  —   most notably leading a group of   supporters in a   salute at a November conference in   Washington D. C. The president disavowed the group . ’ ’   Spencer    on the   app Periscope on Friday afternoon where he   discussed his version of the events that took place.  ’ ’   ”Someone came out of nowhere, and punched me. He didn’’t really   land one, and it didn’’t hurt that much. But it was pretty   remarkable,” Spencer said. ’ ’  ’ ’   Spencer described how, as he was being interviewed by journalists   following the incident, the same person came back and   ” ” him in the ear. Spencer said that after the   attack, witnesses circled around him to protect him   from further blows. ’ ”   But that wasn’t the end of Spencer’s troubles. Spencer said   that as he moved away from the protesters, another person came up   and spat on him. ” ’   ”This was three physical assaults, really serious physical   assaults, that occurred,” Spencer said.  ’ ’   ”I’’m afraid this is going to become the meme to end all   memes.”  ’