’  ’ ’   The US may as well be renamed the land of the red, white, and   pink on Saturday, January 21. ’ ’   An estimated 500, 000 people gathered for the Women’’s March on   Washington to advocate for gender equality on President Donald   Trump’’s first full day in office. Many sported pink knitted   beanies with cat ears, called ”pussy hats,” as a symbol of   solidarity among protestors. ’ ”   A group called the  helped   make the hat part of marchers’ uniform. Project      Business Insider that anyone who   planned to march could download a crochet, knit, or sew  for the hat   on the project’s site. Alternatively, people could make and send   them to the organizers to give away at DC’s march. ” ’  ’ ”   Since it launched in late November, the project has garnered   thousands of  and  estimates nearly   100, 000 people have downloaded the hat’s pattern.     and    have posted photos of themselves wearing the hats,   too. ” ’   Actress Jessica Chastain (”The Martian,” ”Zero Dark Thirty”)   handed out buttons at the Women’’s March on Washington while   wearing a pussy hat. ’ ’  ’ ”   Following the election,  and      designed the hat’s pattern with the owner   of  a Los   knitting shop. Besides the     shape, the hat’s name was inspired by Trump’s 2005   comments in the  leaked in October 2016, in which he   bragged about grabbing women by their genitals. ” ’   The Pussyhat project is ”about women  ’ ’   The team has also organized    —   where people can learn   how to make the hats together  —   in 100 knitting shops across the   country. Suh and  said they have received   hats from people outside the US, including those in Scandinavia,   New Zealand, and Canada, who could not make the march but wanted   to show support. ’ ’  ’ ’   Suh said she received an email from a daughter whose mother   participated in the 1963 March on Washington with Dr. Martin   Luther King Jr. For this march, however, the daughter needed to   take care of her mother, but they knitted and sent their hats to   the project’’s organizers ”to represent their family at the   march.” ’ ”   Two days after the project’s launch,  ” ’   ”N ’