’  ’ ”   On Monday the Associated Press reported that as one of Barack   Obama’s final actions in office before the inauguration of Donald   Trump, he released $221 million to the Palestinian   Authority.  ” ’   The $221 million comes from federal aid the US provides to the   West Bank and Gaza, which totaled around . The sum released by   Obama during his last hours in office had been held up by a   bipartisan group of congresspeople, including both Ed Royce and   Kate Granger. ’ ’   ”The easiest way to sum it up is that Congress had been looking   at various behaviors from Palestine  —    corruption,   incitement of violence, and paying salaries to people in jail for   terrorism  —   and ” Dr. Jonathan Schanzer of the Foundation for   Defense of Democracies told Business Insider. ’ ’   Schanzer characterized the move by Obama as ”a strange   message to send,” and also, a shock. ’ ’   ”I was tracking President Obama’s 11th hour moves on the   Palestinians and this issue never came up once   . .. ” said Schanzer. ’ ’   The Obama administration had been pressing for the release of the   funds for some time, according to the Associated Press, which   reported that a notification sent to Congress stated that the   money came from the  ’ ’   The Palestinian Authority,  for cash,   used the money for ”salaries unpaid and debts that are owed,”   said Schanzer.  ’ ’   Schanzer said that the Palestinian Authority has done nothing to   warrant this reversal on Obama’’s part, characterizing activities   such as corruption and incitement of violence as ”ongoing.”  ’ ’  ’ ’   Schanzer pointed to the leader of the Palestinian Authority,   Mahmoud Abbas, as an example of corruption. Abbas entered   his 12th year as president this year, despite only being elected   to a   term in 2005.  ’ ’   Obama is ”releasing funds to a guy that’s become an autocrat,”   said Schanzer. ’ ”   Obama’s unilateral action to override the will of a a bipartisan   Congress comes at the end of his presidency, when he seemed   increasingly willing to let Israel fend for itself. In December,   the ” ’   Meanwhile, Trump has promised to be the most   president   the US has ever seen, and has repeatedly floated the idea of   moving the US embassy in Israel to Jerusalem, which . ’