’  ’ ”   For Supreme Court Chief Justice John Roberts, Friday’s   inauguration of President Donald Trump couldn’t have gone any   better. ” ”   It has nothing to do with politics  —   and everything to do with   the judge’s flawless recitation of the oath of office . ” ”   Roberts wasn’t so fortunate eight years ago, in 2009, during   Barack Obama’s first inauguration. In that ceremony, as Roberts   led Obama in the   oath, he memorably recited one of the   words out of order, causing Obama to hesitate in a brief moment   of awkwardness. ” ’   Article II of the Constitution required Obama to say he ”will   faithfully execute the office of president of the United States.”   But Roberts, reciting the passage from memory, placed the word   ”faithfully” at the end of the clause  —   ”I will execute the   office of president to the United States faithfully,” he said. ’ ’ ’ ’   The deviation from the original text tripped Obama up, and he   momentarily paused after the word ”execute.” Realizing his   mistake, Roberts repeated the clause, starting with the word   ”faithfully”  —   resulting in ”execute faithfully,” which is still   incorrect. Obama answered back with Roberts’’ original incorrect   recitation of the oath and broke out into a smile over the   confusion. (No one seemed to notice that Roberts originally said   ”president to the United States” instead of ”of   the United States. ”) ’ ’   The incident may have arisen from Roberts’’ adherence to a dubious   grammar rule that says an infinitive form of a verb, like ”to   execute”  —   or the   form, ”will execute”  —   cannot be   split by an adverb like ”faithfully.” Roberts  of grammatical pedantry, the linguist Steven Pinker   noted the day after Obama’’s inauguration, and as Roberts recited   the oath, his persnickety instincts may have caused him to   inadvertently transpose the words. ’ ’   Conservative pundits immediately pounced on the blunder. Fox News   anchor Chris Wallace even openly wondered whether Obama was   actually president. ’ ’ ’ ’   ”I have to say, I’’m not sure that Barack Obama really is the   president of the United States, because the oath of office is set   in the Constitution,” Wallace said during Fox News’’ coverage of   the inauguration. ’ ”   He was. Obama officially became president five minutes earlier,   when the clock struck noon. Constitutional experts also chimed   in, saying the flub didn’t affect Obama’s status as president. ” ’   But to quell the rumors, Obama and Roberts took part in  the following day, and it went off   without a hitch. ’ ’   Four years later, for Obama’’s second inauguration, Roberts read   the oath from a notecard. This time, it was Obama who messed up,   hesitating on the word ”states” in ”United States” and never   fully enunciating it. ’ ’ ’ ’   That misstep got much less attention than the one in 2009. But   the point was moot  —   Inauguration Day fell on a Sunday that year,   so the public ceremony Americans viewed on Monday was just for   show; Obama had already taken the oath of office in private the   day before. ’ ’   ”I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will faithfully execute   the office of president of the United States, and will to the   best of my ability preserve, protect and defend the Constitution   of the United States.” ’