’  ’ ’   President Donald Trump said in a interview with ABC News which   aired Wednesday that he believes millions of illegal votes were   cast in the 2016 election, but that not a single one was   cast in his name. ’ ’   During a surreal exchange, anchor David Muir grilled Trump over   his continued spreading of the falsehood that millions of illegal   ballots were cast in the 2016 election, which Trump had   previously said was the reason for Democratic presidential   nominee Hillary Clinton beating him in the popular vote by nearly   3 million ballots. ’ ’   And Trump did not back away from his claim in the slightest. ’ ’   ”We’’re gonna launch an investigation to find out,” Trump said,     on his . ”And   I will say this: Of those votes cast, none of ’’em come to me.   None of ’’em come to me.” ’ ’   ”They would all be for the other side,” he continued. ”None of   ’’em come to me.” ’ ’   Trump insisted that ”we have a lot to look into” regarding dead   individuals, undocumented immigrants, and voters registered in   multiple states being on voter rolls. ’ ’   ”You have people that are registered, who are dead, who are   illegals who are in two states,” he said. ”You have people   registered in two states. They’’re registered in a New York and a   New Jersey. They vote twice. There are millions of votes, in my   opinion. Now, I’’m gonna do an investigation.” ’ ”   Muir then engaged in a substantial    questioning   Trump’s rationale and basis for pursuing such an investigation. ” ’   ”You’’re now president of the United States,” Muir said. ”When you   say it’’s —  .” ’ ’   Trump cut in. ’ ’   ”Well of course, and I want the voting process to be legitimate,”   he said. ’ ’   ”What I’’m asking,” Muir responded. ”When you say in your opinion,   millions of illegal votes  —   that is something that is extremely   fundamental to our functioning democracy, a fair and free   election.”  ’ ’   ”Sure,” Trump replied. ’ ’   ”You say you’’re gonna launch an investigation,” Muir continued. ’ ’   ”Sure,” Trump repeated. ”Done.” ’ ’   Muir then said the basis of Trump’’s false assertions had been   ”debunked” and was ”false.” ’ ’   ”What you have presented so far has been debunked,” Muir said.   ”It’’s been called false —  .” ’ ’   ”Take a look at the Pew reports,” Trump insisted. ’ ’   ”I called the author of the Pew report last night and he told me   that they found no evidence of voter fraud,” Muir asserted. ’ ’   ”Really?” Trump asked. ”Then why did he write the report?”  ’ ’   ”He said no evidence of voter fraud,” Muir repeated. ’ ’   ”Excuse me, then why did he write the report?” Trump asked   rhetorically. ’ ’   He continued: ”According to Pew report, then he’’s  —   then he’’s   groveling again. You know, I always talk about the reporters,   they grovel when they wanna write something that you wanna hear,   but not necessarily millions of people wanna hear or have to   hear.” ’ ’   The study that Trump was mentioning, which he   repeatedly referred to late during the campaign, said   24 million voter registrations were no longer valid or were   significantly inaccurate, more than 1. 8 million dead people were   listed as voters, and about 2. 8 million people were registered in   more than one state. The report, which was from 2012, did not   claim that those people voted illegally in an election, as it was   written as an argument for modernizing the US voting system. ’ ’   The investigation is set to be ordered as soon as tomorrow,    ’ ”   Earlier Wednesday, White House press secretary Sean Spicer was   confronted by a Fox News reporter during the daily press briefing   about how Trump’s own lawyers who represented his campaign in   Green Party nominee Jill Stein’s recount effort  that no evidence   pointed to voter fraud existing in the election. ” ’   ”Attorneys who were representing the   during the   recounts in several states emphatically stated ’’all available   evidence suggests that the 2016 general election was not tainted   by fraud or mistake,’’ so how do you square those two things?” Fox   News White House correspondent John Roberts, asked. ’ ’   Spicer suggested the lawyers’’ statement wasn’’t referring to   ”states we didn’’t compete in.” ’ ’   ”Well, I think there were a lot of states we didn’’t compete in   where that is not necessarily the case,” he said. ”You look at   California and New York, I’’m not sure that those statements were    —   we didn’’t look at those two states in particular.” ’ ’   Spicer said the investigation would look into ”bigger states,”   adding that details would be released later this week. ’ ’   Trump secured the presidency in the November 8 election   with more than 300 electoral votes. ’ ’   In late November, Trump first made the baseless claim that   ”millions” had voted illegally in the election and had swung the   popular vote in Clinton’’s favor. He also claimed without evidence   that ”serious voter fraud” occurred in Virginia, New Hampshire,   and California  —   all states that he lost. The secretaries of   state in each of those three states strongly rebuked Trump’’s   assertion and said no such fraud took place. ’ ”   Trump’s false assertions were brought back to the forefront this   week when he made a similar claim during a  with congressional   leaders, .   Trump’s claims that voter fraud affected the election have   repeatedly been shot down by   and voting officials. ” ’ ’ ’President Trump to launch investigation into alleged voter fraud: “I want the voting process to be legitimate.”  ’