’  ’ ”   An inaccurate report on the conspiratorial website InfoWars led   more than 100, 000 individuals this week to sign an  calling for Comedy Central to   fire a comedian who tweeted a tasteless joke about Barron   Trump, President Donald Trump’s    son. ” ”   The problem? The New York   comedian doesn’t and has   never worked for Comedy Central. ” ’   Jenni Runyan, a spokesperson for the comedy channel, confirmed to   Business Insider that the comedian, Stephen Spinola, ”has never   been employed by Comedy Central.” ’ ”   The controversy started on Monday when InfoWars writer Paul   Joseph Watson, a prominent conspiracy theorist, wrongly   identified Spinola as a Comedy Central writer  about the comedian’s tweet. A   spokesperson for InfoWars did not immediately respond to a   request for comment. ” ’   In the   tweet, Spinola joked that Trump’’s      son ”looks like a very handsome    .” In a     post, he doubled down. ’ ’   Spinola told Business Insider he suspected that after ”Saturday   Night Live” writer Katie Rich  for a tweet on Trump’’s youngest   child that conservatives went searching for jokes other comedians   had made. At the time, his bio said he was a ”Comedy Central   content contributor” because the channel had featured some of his   work on a show. ’ ’  ’ ”   But Spinola has never worked for the channel in any official   capacity. He has since deleted the tweets, acknowledging it was   insensitive to joke about Trump’s child. ” ’   ”I knew the tweets were wrong,” he told Business Insider. ”They   are just dumb. They weren’’t something I would say onstage or   something I stand by.” ’ ’   The apology, however, has not quelled the anger on the internet   directed at him. In addition to having thousands call for him to   be fired from a network at which he is not employed, others have   flooded him with messages online. ’ ’   ”On Monday, I woke up to over 800 Twitter notifications. People   were saying stuff on Facebook, Instagram, and YouTube,” he said. ’ ’   Spinola said he was initially amused but grew concerned when he   started receiving cryptic death threats through social media and   directly on his phone. ’ ’   ”It was funny at first,” he said of the attacks, ”but then   someone sent me an old address of mine and my grandmother’’s name   asking how she was, insinuating they would hurt her.” ’ ’   Though he said his grandmother had died years ago, Spinola   said the constant flow of threats had him worried someone would   take action against another loved one. ’ ’   ”I had to delete every reference to my girlfriend online,” he   said. ”Any trace that I have to my girlfriend.” ’ ’   ”I’’m just hoping nobody is crazy enough to go through with any of   the threats,” Spinola added. ”Any time I hear a door close   outside my home now, I look out through my blinds.” ’ ’   The comedian said he found the whole incident surreal, and   repeatedly underscored that he didn’’t aim to ”hurt Barron Trump’’s   feelings.” ’ ’   ”I’’m not political at all,” Spinola told Business Insider. ”I   tweet about what’’s trending to get more followers, and I was   making observations on Inauguration Day about what people looked   like.” ’ ’   ”As a comedian, I make a lot of jokes that are not great,” he   later added. ”A lot of comedians make a lot of jokes that are not   great. I made a mistake by attacking a    boy.” ’ ’   But Spinola did say he found it odd that people were defending   Barron Trump by ”doing things 1, 000 times worse.” ’ ’   ”Shows how dangerous fake news can actually be,” he said. ’ ’   The White House on Tuesday issued a . ’