’  ’ ’   President Donald Trump said he aims to start construction of the   wall along the US border with Mexico within months. ’ ’   He told ABC News’’ David Muir  published Wednesday that he wanted construction to   begin as soon as possible. When Muir asked whether that meant   construction would start within months, Trump said, ”I would say   in months, yeah.” ’ ’   ”Certainly planning is starting immediately,” Trump said. ’ ’   At the Department of Homeland Security on Wednesday, Trump signed   two executive orders related to immigration and the construction   of the wall. He told department employees that the moves would   help ”restore the rule of law.” ’ ’   ”A nation without borders is not a nation. Beginning today, the   United States of America gets back control as it gets back its   borders,” Trump said. ’ ’   When asked by Muir whether American taxpayers would pay for the   wall, Trump said that the money would ”come out of what’’s   happening with Mexico.” ’ ’   ”We’’re going to be starting those negotiations relatively soon,   and we will be, in a form, reimbursed by Mexico,” Trump said. ’ ’   Trump dodged the question when Muir pressed him on whether   American taxpayers would initially foot the bill for construction   of the wall. ’ ’   ”All it is is we’’ll be reimbursed at a later date from whatever   transaction we make from Mexico,” Trump said. ’ ’   Muir mentioned that Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto has said   he would refuse to pay for the wall, but Trump stood firm. ’ ’   ”I think he has to say that. He has to say that,” Trump said.   ”But I’’m just telling you there will be a payment. It will be in   a form, perhaps a complicated form, and you have to understand   what I’’m doing is good for the United States. It’’s also going to   be good for Mexico. We want to have a very stable, very solid   Mexico.” ’ ’   During a press conference on Wednesday, White House press   secretary Sean Spicer said there were  Trump could use to make sure Mexico would pay for   the wall. ’ ’ ’ ”JUST IN: President Donald Trump tells  News’ : Construction of border wall will begin “in months. ”  ”