’  ’ ’   Get ready. You will soon be able to fly Emirates between New York   City and Athens, Greece. ’ ’   On January 23, the   airline announced plans to launch   daily flights between the Greek capital and Newark Liberty   International Airport just across the Hudson River from   Manhattan. ’ ’   ”We are pleased to be able to help meet a strong consumer need   long neglected by other airlines, and we would like to thank the   authorities and our partners in both the US and Greece for their   support of the new route,” Emirates president Sir Tim Clark said   in a statement. ’ ”   Athens, in recent years, has not been a major market for US   carriers. Currently, Delta and United only operate seasonal   service to the Greek capital from JFK and Newark respectively.   When Emirates’   flights launch on March 12,   there will be   daily service between the destinations   for the first time in half a decade. Emirates is expected to   operate the flights using its fleet of Boeing     aircraft.  ” ’   According to Clark, his airline decided to extend its     route to Newark at the urging of the Greek   government. This means that Athens will only serve as a stopover.   All flights will commence and end in Newark or Dubai.  ’ ”   This is the second time, in recent years, Emirates has   introduced   flights between the US and Europe. In 2013,   Emirates launched service from Milan to New York’s JFK   International Airport.  ” ’  ’ ”   Emirates’ announcement was met with a swift and furious   response from the airline’s US critics  —   American, Delta, and   United Airlines  —   through the Partnership for Open and Fair   Skies, an organization tasked with speaking on behalf of three   carriers or US3 on the matter. Even though this is just a single   route, the additional supply of seat capacity is a threat to the   US3’s preciously   business.  ” ’   ”By flagrantly violating its Open Skies agreement with the United   States at the start of the Trump administration, Emirates is   throwing down the gauntlet,”  Jill Zuckman, said in a statement. ”We look   forward to working with President Trump and his team to enforce   these agreements and protect American jobs  —   something that the   Obama administration failed to do.” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Delta CEO Ed Bastian, along with his predecessor Richard   Anderson, has said on many occasions that his company can compete   against any airline in the world, but not governments. ’ ’   In July 2016, representatives of the    met with members of the Obama administration to the discuss the   matter. However, no concrete results have emerged from those   talks. ’ ’   It is unclear what action, if any, the Trump administration will   undertake with respect to the conflict. ’ ’   All members of the ME3 have repeatedly denied the allegations   made by the US3. ’ ’   In 2016,  by leading consumer aviation website Skytrax  —   taking   the crown from the previous winner, fellow ME3 carrier Qatar   Airways. ’