’  ’ ’   The US has been downgraded to a ”flawed democracy” from a ”full   democracy” by the Economist Intelligence Unit in its 2016   ”Democracy Index” report. ’ ”   Although the report’s publication comes shortly after the   election of President Donald Trump, the EIU analysts   write that the US was not downgraded because of him. Rather,   his surprise election was an effect of the underlying   causes that led the EIU to downgrade the US. ” ’   According to the EIU, ”full   democracies” are countries in which basic political   freedoms and civil liberties are respected, and are ”underpinned   by a political culture conducive to the flourishing of   democracy.” The government functions satisfactorily; media   are independent and diverse; the judiciary is independent   and their decisions are enforced; and there’’s an effective system   of checks and balances. ’ ’   Meanwhile, ”flawed democracies” have free and   fair elections (with possibly some issues such as infringements   on media freedom) and respect basic civil liberties. However,   there are governance problems and low levels of political   participation. ’ ’   The US’’s overall ”Democracy Index” score fell from 8. 05 in 2015     —   just below the EIU’’s threshold of   8. 00 for a ”full democracy.” The analysts write that a key   factor in the drop was Americans’’ growing distrust in   governmental institutions. ’ ’   ”Popular trust in government, elected representatives, and   political parties has fallen to extremely low levels in the US.   This has been a   trend and one that preceded the   election of Mr. Trump as the US president in November 2016,” they   write. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”By tapping a deep strain of political disaffection with the   functioning of democracy, Mr. Trump became a beneficiary of the   low esteem in which US voters hold their government, elected   representatives, and political parties, but he was not   responsible for a problem that has had a long gestation.” ’ ”   Notably, they write that even if 2016 weren’t an   election year, the US’s score would’ve dipped below 8. 00. ” ’  ’ ’   As a reference point, other countries that qualify as ”flawed   democracies” and have similar scores on the EIU metrics   as the US include Japan, Italy, France, South Korea, Israel,   Estonia, India, and Chile. ’ ’  ’ ’   Americans’’ trust in government has been declining since the late   1950s. And after an uptick from the   to the early   2000s, confidence again dropped, according to  cited by the EIU. In fact, the percentage   of Americans who say they trust the government ”just about   always” or ”most of the time” dropped to less than 20% in   the  . ’ ”   The EIU argues that there are several reasons for this decline.   First, major political events over the past several decades,   including the Vietnam War, the Watergate scandal, the Iraq War,   the financial and housing crisis in   and government   shutdowns, have eroded Americans’ trust in government. ” ’   Additionally, the EIU argues that rising income inequality has   been an underlying factor in growing distrust. ’ ’  ’ ’   On that note, a few months back  ’ ’  ’ ” In August, Goldman Sachs’ Sumana   Manohar and Hugo    comparing a given country’s gross domestic   product per capita to its Gini coefficient. ” ’  ’ ”   The  is a measurement of the income distribution   within a country that aims to show the gap between the rich and   the poor. The number ranges from zero to one, with zero   representing perfect equality (everyone has the same income) and   one representing perfect inequality (one person earns the entire   country’s income and everyone else has nothing.) A higher Gini   coefficient means greater inequality. ” ’   Developed market economies such as those in Germany, France, and   Sweden tend to have a higher GDP per capita and lower Gini   coefficients. On the flip side, emerging market economies in   countries like Russia, Brazil, and South Africa tend to have a   lower GDP per capita but a higher Gini coefficient. ’ ”   However, the US’s GDP per capita is on par with developed   European countries like Switzerland and Norway, but its Gini   coefficient is in the same tier as Russia’s and China’s. ” ’   ”If income inequality has exacerbated American trust in   government and public institutions, continued economic progress   should start to reverse this trend in the coming years,” they   wrote. ”The   is at its highest level since the   financial crisis, and income inequality should gradually narrow   if the economic recovery continues.” ’ ’   But the US is not the sole country to have a decline in   confidence in political elites and institutions; major European   economies have also seen this trend. In June,  while    across the   continent. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   That being said, unlike for the US,   UK is still a   ”full democracy” and its score increased  —   to   8. 36 in 2016 from the prior year’’s reading of 8. 31  —     because of increased political participation with the Brexit   vote. ’ ’   The referendum drew a turnout of 72. 2% compared with average   turnouts of 63% in the four general elections since   2001.  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’