“Just words. ” During Sunday night’s debate, that’s how Donald Trump described the 2005 recording that caught him boasting about his ability to touch women without their permission. Jessica Leeds, watching on TV from home, was so upset by what Mr. Trump said that she wrote a letter to The New York Times the next morning. In the latest episode of The   I speak with my Times colleague and   Megan Twohey, about what happened next. We investigated Ms. Leeds’s claims. And we wrote a story about two women  —   Ms. Leeds and Rachel Crooks  —   who say Mr. Trump touched them inappropriately without their consent. He denies those accounts  —   forcefully. In the episode, Ms. Twohey recounts an animated interview in which the Republican presidential nominee called her “disgusting. ” I spoke as well to Mark Leibovich, the chief national correspondent at The New York Times Magazine, about how Mr. Trump is responding to these women’s accounts and how Hillary Clinton is treating this moment in the campaign. He wrote a major piece about the final weeks of Mrs. Clinton’s campaign, for which he interviewed the Democratic nominee. We also talk about the revelations contained in leaked emails from Mrs. Clinton’s campaign chairman, John Podesta, and the improbable story of how a single piece of fruit, rolled down an airplane aisle, seems to encapsulate her campaign. From a desktop or laptop, you can listen by pressing play on the button above. Or if you’re on a mobile device, the instructions below will help you find and subscribe to the series. On your iPhone or iPad: 1. Open your podcast app. It’s a   app called “Podcasts” with a purple icon. (This link may help.) 2. Search for the series. Tap on the “search” magnifying glass icon at the bottom of the screen, type in “The  ” and select it from the list of results. 3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, tap on the “subscribe” button to have new episodes sent to your phone free. You may want to adjust your notifications to be alerted when a new episode arrives. 4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before deciding to subscribe, tap on the episode title from the list on the series page. If you have an internet connection, you’ll be able to stream the episode. On your Android phone or tablet: 1. Open your podcast app. It’s a   app called “Play Music” with an    icon. (This link may help.) 2. Search for the series. Click on the magnifying glass icon at the top of the screen, search for the name of the series and select it from the list of results. You may have to scroll down to find the “Podcasts” search results. 3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, click on the word “subscribe” to have new episodes sent to your phone free. 4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before deciding to subscribe, click on the episode title from the list on the series page. If you have an internet connection, you’ll be able to stream the episode.