’  ’ ’   While there is  President   Trump is not wrong in suggesting that our voter registration   systems could use an update.  ’ ”   Take Tiffany Trump, for example. Despite what she’s said   publicly, President Trump’s youngest daughter is, in fact,   registered to vote in both Pennsylvania and New York. ” ”   This likely happened because she registered when she was a   student at the University of Pennsylvania. When she moved back to   New York after graduating last May, she likely didn’t notify the   Pennsylvania Board of Elections that she no longer lives there. ” ”   She’s not alone, though. Chances are the last time you moved   across state lines, you didn’t notify your former Board of   Elections either. ” ’   So, Donald Trump was probably  that many Americans are ”registered to vote   in two states.” That said, most of these people are probably just   like Tiffany Trump: They have no intention to actually   vote in more than one state, they just didn’’t properly   notify the Board of Elections. ’ ’’ ’   To help cut down on double registrations like these, the  (ERIC) is partnering up with states to help them   communicate about voter registration. The idea for ERIC was born   out of the Pew Research Center’’s conference called ”Voting in   America”: ’ ’   ”The overall consensus was that voter registration was out of   date,” ERIC’’s executive director John Lindback told Business   Insider. ”It’’s the biggest problem with elections in the United   States.” ’ ’   ERIC was officially formed in 2012 with seven states:    ’ ”   Today, ERIC’s membership has grown to 20 states, as well as   Washington D. C.  ” ’   ”S ’ ’   Despite not having every state involved in ERIC, Lindback is   proud of the number of participating states. He said when it   comes to elections, states are typically slow moving, citing   online voter registration as an example (it has been an option   for 15 years, and yet, only about 35 states have signed on). ’ ’ Michael McDonald warned that while it might be   helpful to have a national voter registry, it is something that   would receive a fair amount of pushback from the states. Lindback   agreed, saying they are not asking for the federal government   support for ERIC, but perhaps the government should consider   setting a deadline for states to join a crosschecking   database.  ’