’  ’ ’   Mexican multibillionaire Carlos Slim on Friday gave a rare press   conference and called on all Mexicans and Mexican political   parties to support President Enrique Peña Nieto in his   negotiations with US President Donald Trump. ’ ’   Slim, who was for three years ranked the richest person in the   world and who is typically   said that ”a united Mexico”   was ready to help the government negotiate, . ’ ’   Speaking in Spanish, Slim called Trump a ”great negotiator” who   represented a major change in how politics will be conducted. ’ ’   Slim spoke out against Trump during the campaign but had dinner   with him after his political victory, according to Reuters. ’ ”   According to  Slim said on Friday that it’s clear that   the government of Mexico is in a strong negotiating position, and   that Peña Nieto canceled next week’s meeting with Trump   exemplifies that. ” ’   Peña Nieto on Thursday  scheduled for next week with Trump after   the US president warned he should not visit Washington if Mexico   was ”unwilling to pay” for a wall on its shared border with the   US. ’ ’   The best border wall is investment and jobs in Mexico,  adding that people would go wherever there   are better employment opportunities. ’ ’   Trump and Peña Nieto spoke on the phone for about an hour on   Friday and have . ’ ”   Slim repeatedly referred to Trump’s books, which he said he is   reading to learn more about the man. ” ’   ”Page 9: The biggest problem in the US is political correctness,”   . ’ ’   Slim also  in the US, saying they are not afraid of the   dangers of coming to the US, not afraid to work and hungry for   success, according to Mendez. ’ ’   As for Trump’’s plan to boycott American companies that have   factories in Mexico,  ”That’’s wrong.” ’ ”   On the Mexican peso, which has taken a beating since Trump’s rise   to political success, Slim said the   exchange rate is   artificial and influenced by people like Trump tweeting,   according to Bloomberg. ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tThe Mexican labor force is superior to that of our neighbors says Carlos Slim. They work harder, they learn faster.  ’ ’ ’t’t’tEven the border wall will have to be made by Mexicans, who else is going to make it?    ’ ” ’t’t’t. is not a terminator, he’s a negotiator says . Press conference just erupted in laughter. ’t’t”