’  ’ ’   Lawyers representing two Iraqi refugees have filed legal   challenges to  ’ ’  ’ ”   The two Iraqi refugees, who were being held at John F. Kennedy   Airport in New York, were carrying valid visas and had been   granted asylum for their or their families’ work for the US   government during the American occupation, which made them   targets in their home country. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   The other, Haider Sameer Abdulkhaleq Alshawi, was traveling to   Texas to reunite with his wife and son when customs denied him   entry, according to the Times. Alshawi’s wife had worked as a   contractor for the US government in Iraq. He is still being   detained along with 11 others, according to Rep. Nydia Velazquez. ” ’   One of the Iraqis’’ lawyers, Mark Doss, told CNN that he and his   colleague had been at JFK ”all night,” and that they had not been   able to meet with Darweesh or Alshawi in person. ’ ’   ”They are being unlawfully detained in the airport” because they   were in   when Trump signed the order, Doss said. He said   customs agents told him to ”call Trump” when he asked who he   could speak to about seeing his clients. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”This order is unconstitutional” and targets     countries, said Doss, the attorney. ”We have filed an emergency   motion to prevent the US government from sending our clients, and   people like them, from being sent back to countries where they   will be in danger.” That, Doss argued, would be ”a violation of   international law.” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Since the 2003 invasion, the US government has implemented two   programs  —   the  and the   —   for Iraqis   who had helped the US government during the occupation. ’ ’  ’ ”   Trump’s ban on refugees and citizens arriving to the US from   Iraq, Syria, Iran, Sudan, Libya, Somalia and Yemen has affected,   among other things, the government’s asylum agreements with   Iraqis who collaborated with the US during the war. ” ’  ’ ’   The order will also block  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   But the ban on Syrians fleeing a brutal,   civil war is   indefinite, even as nearly 15, 000 Syrian   had been   resettled in the US as of November. The ban gives priority   status, however, to minorities fleeing religious persecution.   Trump said in an interview on Friday that the caveat was aimed at   helping Syrian Christians. ’ ’   The American Civil Liberties Union  to challenge any form of Muslim ban, saying that   ”a policy categorically excluding members of a particular   religion from the country would violate the Establishment Clause   of the First Amendment by explicitly disapproving of one religion   and implicitly preferring others.” ’ ’  ’ ’   The Council on   Relations  that the ban is unconstitutional: ”Its   apparent purpose and underlying motive is to ban people of the   Islamic faith from   countries from entering the   United States,” the organization said, vowing to file a federal   lawsuit challenging the executive order. ’ ’   Because the ban does not explicitly mention ”Islam” or ”Muslims,”   however, it may be shielded from legal challenges arguing that it   violates the Constitution’’s guarantees of religious freedom and   due process. ’ ’   The International Refugee Assistance Project (IRAP) which   organizes law students and lawyers to protect legal and human   rights for refugees and displaced persons, put out a call on its   website last week for lawyers to travel to airports to offer   legal advice to refugees arriving in the US who might be   detained. ’ ’   A representative for the project told Business Insider last week   that they received a ”great response,” but that they were waiting   to mobilize until it was clear that the refugees with valid visas   would actually be denied entry. ’ ’   The :   ”H ’ ’   ”In the coming weeks we will be advocating to show why this   policy is bad for US national security, why it goes against our   humanitarian responsibilities, and why it is fundamentally   ” ’ ’   ”If there is one fundamentally American value then it is   welcoming those who are fleeing persecution. At our best, this is   what we can do.” ’