’  ’ ’   WASHINGTON (AP)  —   Will President Donald Trump usher in a new era   for U. S.  relations, or are the two powers going to   continue down the path as geopolitical foes? ’ ”   Now that Russian President Vladimir Putin has held his first   conversation with America’s newly inaugurated leader, attention   turns to the fate of U. S. sanctions against Moscow and whether   the two will look to enhance military cooperation against the   Islamic State group. ” ’   Trump was noncommittal about whether he was considering lifting   the economic sanctions ahead of the call, telling reporters   Friday, ”We’’ll see what happens. As far as the sanctions, very   early to be talking about that.” ’ ”   While the White House has yet to comment on Saturday’s phone   call, the Kremlin released a statement hinting that the two men   discussed the sanctions, implemented by the Obama administration   as a consequence of Russia’s actions in Ukraine. ” ’   The two leaders emphasized the importance of ”restoring mutually   beneficial trade and economic ties between business circles of   the two countries, which could additionally stimulate the   incremental and sustainable development of the bilateral   relationship,” the Kremlin said. ’ ’’ ’   Putin and Trump will also maintain ”regular personal contact” and   will begin preparations for a    meeting. ’ ”   The Kremlin has applauded Trump’s promises to rebuild   U. S.  relations, which have been pushed to their worst   level since the Cold War by the Ukraine crisis, war in Syria and   allegations of Russian meddling in U. S. elections. ” ”   The Kremlin said that Putin and Trump spoke in particular about   international issues, including the fight against terrorism, the     conflict, Iran’s nuclear program, the situation on   the Korean peninsula and the Ukraine crisis. ” ’   ”The presidents spoke out in favor of the establishment of real   coordination of Russian and American actions with the aim of   destroying the Islamic State,” according to the statement. ’ ”   In 2014, Russia annexed Ukraine’s Crimea region and backed   separatists fighting government forces in eastern Ukraine,   drawing widespread condemnation in Europe and the United States. ” ”   In response, sanctions were implemented against sectors of   Russia’s economy, including financial services, energy, mining   and defense. The Obama administration also sanctioned people in   Putin’s inner circle. ” ’   Shortly before leaving office, President Barack Obama also   ordered sanctions on Russian spy agencies, closed two Russian   compounds in the United States and expelled 35 diplomats that he   said were really spies. These sanctions followed an assessment by   U. S. intelligence that Moscow meddled in the 2016 election to   help Trump become president. ’ ”   Trump’s tempered approach to U. S.  relations has already   raised concern among several European allies who believe keeping   Russia in check is essential to regional security. ” ’   British Prime Minister Theresa May, whose country  —   as part of   the European Union  —   also has punished Russia for its   provocations in Ukraine, voiced the view of many in Europe,   telling reporters in Washington on Friday: ”We believe the   sanctions should continue.” ’ ’   Vice President Mike Pence and other senior advisers joined Trump   for the call with Putin, including his national security adviser,   retired Gen. Michael Flynn, chief of staff Reince Priebus and   senior strategist Steve Bannon. Trump also spoke on Saturday with   the leaders of Japan, Germany, France and Australia. ’ ”   Two Republican senators  —   Arizona’s John McCain, chairman of the   Armed Services Committee, and Ohio’s Rob Portman, a member of the   Foreign Relations Committee  —  warned the White House about easing   any punishments on Moscow and they pledged to turn the sanctions   into law. ” ’   ”I hope President Trump will put an end to this speculation and   reject such a reckless course,” McCain said in a statement. ”If   he does not, I will work with my colleagues to codify sanctions   against Russia into law.” ’ ’   Portman said lifting the sanctions ”for any reason other than a   change in the behavior that led to those sanctions in the first   place would send a dangerous message to a world already   questioning the value of American leadership and the credibility   of our commitments after eight years of Obama administration   policies.” ’ ’   McCain has emerged as a frequent critic of Trump among Capitol   Hill Republicans. He takes a dim view of trying to reset   relations with Moscow and says Trump should remember that Putin   is ”a murderer and a thug who seeks to undermine American   national security interests at every turn.” ’ ’   ”For our commander in chief to think otherwise would be naive and   dangerous,” McCain said. ’ ”   McCain and Portman are part of a bipartisan group of senators who   have introduced legislation designed to go beyond the punishments   against Russia already levied by Obama and to demonstrate to   Trump that forcefully responding to Moscow’s meddling isn’t a   partisan issue. ” ’   The bill would impose mandatory visa bans and freeze the   financial assets of anyone who carries out cyberattacks against   public or private computer systems and democratic institutions. ’ ”   The legislation also mandates sanctions in Russia’s     energy sector and on investments in the development of civil   nuclear projects to rebuke Moscow for its provocations in eastern   Ukraine and military support for Syrian President Bashar Assad. ” ’   ___ ’ ’   Associated Press writer Howard Amos contributed to this report   from Moscow. ’