’The two streaming giants, Netflix and Amazon, were both busy for a second straight year at the Sundance Film Festival ending this weekend, and both took some of the most   titles at the fest.’ ”Following its  of current Oscar best picture nominee “Manchester by the Sea” last year, Amazon has come back to Park City with a bigger wallet. The company bought the comedy “The Big Sick” for $12 million, the biggest buy of this year’s fest. Meanwhile, Netflix has taken some of the most coveted documentaries at the fest, like “Chasing Coral” and “Icarus. ”” ’Though a few of the traditional distributors have also grabbed some big fish from the fest, filmmakers are clearly Netflix and Amazon.’ ’Here’s a breakdown of all the Sundance movies Netflix and Amazon bought that will be showing on their services later this year (plus a few of the standout buys from other distributors):’ ’This thriller about an Australian photographer who finds herself unable to leave the apartment of her romantic encounter will be getting a North American theatrical release through Vertical Entertainment before it goes to streaming on Netflix.’ ’ ’ ’Produced by Judd Apatow and starring “Silicon Valley” cast member Kumail Nanjiani (who cowrote the script) this comedy about a couple dealing with their cultural differences is one of the biggest hits at this year’s festival. Amazon will handle a theatrical release of the film before streaming it later this year.’ ’ ’ ’Netflix nabbed the worldwide rights to the film before Sundance started. This  at the murder of JonBenet Ramsey will be available to stream in the spring.’ ’ ’ ’The streaming giant also took the worldwide rights to this documentary, which looks at the world’s coral reefs.’ ’ ’ ’Following his   documentary, ”Cartel Land,” director Matthew Heineman has wowed Sundance audiences with this look at an anonymous group of activists who came together after their homeland was taken over by ISIS. Amazon took the worldwide rights for over $2 million. A&E will have TV rights after the movie’’s theatrical run.’ ’’ ’Lakeith Stanfield’’s (”Atlanta”)  of a man who spent a decade in prison for a crime he didn’’t commit got the attention of Amazon, which grabbed the movie following its world premiere at the fest.’ ’’ ’This ensemble comedy starring Toni Collette, Molly Shannon, Adam Scott, and Adam Levine will be theatrically released by Momentum Pictures before streaming on Netflix.’ ’ ’ ’Compared to the hit documentary “Super Size Me,” this doc follows director Bryan Fogel who decides to examine the illegal doping in sports by teaming with a Russian scientist to dope himself. The timely topic and shocking revelations led to Netflix nabbing the film in one of the biggest buys ever for a nonfiction movie at the fest.’ ’ ’ ’The   movie at the festival grabbed the attention of Netflix, which will brand the movie as a Netflix Original. The comedy stars former “Daily Show” correspondent Jessica Williams, Lakeith Stanfield (“Atlanta”) and Chris O’Dowd (“Bridesmaids”).’ ’ ’ ’This documentary about the college student who inspired the   protest that shut down Hong Kong’s financial district in 2014 will be available on Netflix later this year.’ ’’ ’Director Gillian Robespierre follows up her 2014 comedy “Obvious Child” with this family comedy set in the 1990s. Amazon took the US rights to the movie.’ ’’ ’Years in the making by Martin Scorsese, who is an executive producer on the film, this documentary about the Grateful Dead will debut on Amazon Prime in the US and the UK on May 26.’ ’’ ’This  at not just the Hogan vs. Gawker case but how the rich and powerful are trying to suppress the free press will be available around the world through Netflix later this year.’ ’’ ’Starring Lily Collins and Keanu Reeves, the movie follows a    girl (Collins) dealing with anorexia. Reeves plays her doctor. Netflix nabbed worldwide rights to the movie and will be releasing it later this year.’ ’’ ’In the   deal at this year’s fest, behind Amazon’s “The Big Sick,” Fox Searchlight dished out  for the comedy “Patti Cake$. ” A24 took the  to the Casey   Mara movie “A Ghost Story” before the fest. New company Neon flexed its muscles at the fest by taking worldwide rights to the Aubrey   Olsen dark comedy “Ingrid Goes West” for . Before the festival Sony Pictures Classics bought “Call Me by Your Name” for a price in the . It stars Armie Hammer as a student spending the summer on the Italian Riviera who falls for the son of the professor he’s staying with. ’