’  ’ ’   Making good on one of his key campaign promises, President Donald   Trump wasted no time in pulling the US . The North American   Free Trade Agreement . ’ ’   The moves align the new administration against ”globalism” and   free trade  —   a stance further emphasized by Press Secretary   Sean Spicer’’s recent suggestion that a  could help fund   Trump’’s proposed border wall. But an examination of US   hotels owned by the Trump Organization reveals just how much they   rely on foreign imports, a practice that could come under fire   from his own administration. ’ ’   The rooms in Trump hotels are adorned with furniture and products   that have traveled farther than most guests. Sets of toiletries   in the bathroom were imported from Central America, shipped to   the US from the Trump Hotel in Panama City. Headboards, tall and   grand and often covered in velvet or leather, came from Jiashan,   China. Light fixtures were brought in from Kamenický Šenov, a   town in the Czech Republic. ’ ’   To track where Trump hotels buy goods, Business Insider consulted    a   company that compiles data from US Customs into proprietary   databases. The resulting list shows Trump’s businesses have   imported furniture, fixtures, building materials, apparel, and   supplies from more than 15 countries since 2012. Over the past   two years, the companies have received shipments nearly 50 times. ’ ’  ’ ’   In his inauguration speech, Trump reiterated his commitment to   domestic manufacturing. ”We will follow two simple rules: Buy   American and hire American,” the president said. But that agenda   stands in conflict with the Trump Organization’’s business   practices. ’ ”   On November 25, the Trump Doral  —   an   golf resort in   Miami  —   received a   shipment from Hong Kong that   included   covers. In January 2016, the Doral received   two containers of massage beds (15, 290 pounds’ worth) from Moers,   Germany. In February 2015, the hotel received 18, 566 pounds’   worth of     ice buckets with accompanying   lids and trays, sent from Nonthaburi, Thailand, to Los Angeles. ” ’   The information about these shipments comes from bills of lading,   which note everything a ship is carrying as well as who is   sending and receiving the cargo. Michael Kanko, the CEO of   ImportGenius, tells Business Insider that the company compiled   the data by pulling all the records connected with the businesses   and addresses that Trump listed in his public     forms. ’ ”   “We painted a picture of Trump’s reliance on foreign imports by   searching our   databases for cargo movements   related to Trump companies,” Kanko says. The list is incomplete  —     because products might not have been made in the cities they were   shipped from, and items that arrived in the US by truck or plane   are not included  —   but it does show the globalized nature of the   Trump family’s hospitality empire. ” ’  ’ ’   Trump hotels are not alone in the practice of sourcing   furnishings, fixtures, technology, and supplies from other   countries. ’ ”   “It’s certainly common in the hospitality world to import   supplies and decor from overseas, especially China,” Kano says. ” ”   Arthur Dong, a professor of strategy and economics at Georgetown   University’s McDonough School of Business, has consulted for   companies in the hospitality industry, and says people would   probably be shocked by how many components of US hotels come from   foreign sources. ” ’   ”The irony of this situation is that it’’s pretty well known   within the hospitality industries that there are global vendors   who supply many of the hotel chains around the world,” he says,   referring to the contrast between Trump’’s rhetoric and his   family’’s business practices. (Four Seasons, Marriott, and Hilton   all declined to comment on their practices.) ’ ’   ”President Trump will be, in a sense, hurting some of his own   business interests by putting up these barriers,” Dong says. ’ ”   Throughout his campaign, Trump repeatedly promised to renegotiate   the US’s   agreements, claiming they kill American jobs   by making it easy for companies to move production overseas or   import products from foreign manufacturers. His executive order   on the TPP likely kills that trade deal, which was negotiated   under President Obama but was not ratified by Congress. The TPP   would have created stronger economic ties between the US and 11   other countries  —   including Japan, Vietnam, Canada, and Mexico   but not China  —   by reducing tariffs and other restrictive   policies for trade between them. ” ’   Trump is expected to soon issue an executive order to renegotiate   NAFTA, a deal that eliminated most tariffs on goods traded   between the US, Canada, and Mexico. He has called NAFTA, which   was negotiated by George H. W. Bush and later approved by Bill   Clinton, “. ” ’ ’   Since World War II, trade deals have been largely embraced by   both Democrats and Republicans because economists have found the   agreements . Until Trump campaigned   in opposition to free trade, most criticism of TPP and other   deals came from progressives like  who  free trade creates winners and losers,   even though overall gains might outweigh losses. A corporation   may profit from access to foreign markets with lower wages, but   domestic workers could consequently lose their jobs. ’ ’   Since the election, Trump has stuck with his      rhetoric. On January 23, he suggested he would impose a  on companies that move their   operations outside the US. In December,  that Trump’s transition team was   considering a proposal to instate a 10% tariff on imports to   increase domestic manufacturing. In a  a couple of   weeks later, Trump suggested he would favor a 45% tariff on   Chinese exports to the US. ’ ”   Yet many of Trump’s imports come from China. ImportGenius’ data   shows that Trump has received 20 shipments from the country over   the past five years, as well as 17 from Hong Kong. (The largest   shipment received in 2016 had six containers  —   weighing a   total of 217, 382 pounds  —   full of Miss   Chi hair   straighteners and hair dryers, which were shipped from Shenzhen   to Houston in September.) ” ’  ’ ’   Susan Helper, a professor of economics at Case Western Reserve   University and the former chief economist at the US Department of   Commerce, says that imposing higher tariffs could lead more hotel   chains to buy things like furniture or light fixtures from US   makers. But that will depend on what kinds of changes the   administration makes. ’ ’   “If there are tariffs just on a couple countries like China or   Mexico, then stuff can move to other countries,” she says,   suggesting that companies might simply find production facilities   elsewhere or start buying from places that aren’t subject to   higher fees. “If it’s    tariffs, then you’d be   more likely to see stuff come to the US. ” ’ ’   While Trump hasn’t said much about the origins of items in his   hotels, he has repeatedly acknowledged that his clothing was   manufactured abroad. (Shipping data shows that .) When pressed,   Trump has said he’d like to buy domestically made products but   that it was hard to find them. ’ ’   “They don’t even make this stuff here,” Trump  after anchor George   Stephanopoulos suggested he should lead by example. ’ ’   Trump only mentioned apparel and TVs in relation to that claim   (it is true that ) but when it comes   to headboards and chairs, there are plenty of domestic   manufacturers that furnish hotels. ’ ’   “It’s certainly very possible and it’s certainly not difficult,”   says Amy Wolbert, senior vice president at  which is based in Grand Rapids, Michigan. Wolbert   is quick to acknowledge, however, that furniture is generally   more expensive when made in the US. “The project has to have   budgets that will support it. Everything comes down to budgets. ” ’ ’  ’ ’   Kindel, which was founded in 1901, provided a couple of pieces   for Trump’s new International Hotel in DC: a coffee table and   leather armchair. Wolbert says that while Kindel sometimes makes   pieces for hotels, its furniture is so   that the company   usually sells only a few items at a time, rather than furnishing   every room. ’ ’   “We seek to do more commercial work because it helps us grow and   it helps increase volume and shipments,” she says. “It’s always   great to get that kind of work because it helps balance out the   consumer who’s going to buy a sofa one year and then maybe not   buy furniture again for two, five, seven years. ” ’ ’   Wolbert says she’’s watched many Michigan furniture makers pack up   shop, a phenomenon that Dong says has been the case nationwide.   Trump’’s trade policies could shift the market back in favor of US   makers, he says, or even incentivize foreign companies to   establish furniture factories in the US. But companies might also   just start making components overseas and assembling the parts in   the US so that they can get a ”Made in USA” label and avoid   tariffs. ’ ’   Wolbert isn’t sure whether policy changes like the ones Trump is   proposing would bring Kindel more business. But she points out   that there are other good reasons (besides US jobs) for clients   to buy furniture from American makers, since they can deliver and   repair products much faster. ’ ’  ’ ’   Helper says switching to domestic manufacturing could even save   money because of those factors. In addition to lowering shipping   costs, she says, eliminating the long lead time provides other   benefits. ’ ’   “What companies sometimes do is order more than they think   they’re going to need and put it in their warehouse in case,” she   says. “This is particularly an issue in clothing. The average   apparel company that’s importing from China may import three   times as much as they expect to sell so they’re covered in case   there’s a run on demand. So there’s just a huge amount of waste. ” ’ ”   If hotel chains do start buying more   products,   however, they’d most likely have to find ways to accommodate the   higher prices  —   either by cutting budgets elsewhere or charging   guests more. ” ’   ”The cost will be passed onto the consumer in the way of higher   room rates, because they’’re confronting higher costs on many of   the inputs,” Dong adds. ’ ’   But he says that the president would be wise to put his money   where his mouth is, regardless of those challenges. ’ ’   ”If he doesn’’t start buying from American sources, it’’ll make him   look a little bit hypocritical,” Dong says. ”His credibility   would go up if he were to direct his company managers to start   sourcing [in the US] and I believe that when they start doing   that, they’’re going to make it very public to make Americans   aware that he’’s going to eat his own cooking.” ’ ”   It is unclear what effect Trump’s trade policies will have, on   his businesses and the US economy. ” ”   “It’s certainly different and it’s certainly upending some   assumptions,” Helper says of Trump’s approach. “And some of it   could be really bad, but some of it could be OK. ” ”