’  ’ ’   It was quite a week. ’ ’   From when Donald Trump was sworn in as the 45th president of the   United States last Friday through the end of this week, news   broke from the White House at a   pace unlike anything   seen previously. ’ ’   Trump signed executive orders   most of which cemented   concrete action on his most prominent campaign   promises. He also allowed access into his White House, providing   interviews to The New York Times, ABC, and Fox News, among   others.  ’ ’   At the same time,   on his   rhetoric,   stirring controversy over falsehoods he spread related to the   size of his inauguration crowd and beliefs he held that millions   voted illegally in the November election, costing him the popular   vote. ’ ’   ”President Donald Trump has signature moments every hour,” Matt   Mackowiak, a Republican strategist and president of the Potomac   Strategy Group, told Business Insider in an email. ’ ”   Here’s how the week that was  —   the first of Trump’s presidency  —     went down: ” ”   The first full day of the Trump presidency was highlighted by   nationwide  —   and international  —   marches in opposition to him.   The Women’s March in Washington, DC, one of the  in history,   saw a larger crowd gather than did for his   inaugural ceremony the day before. ” ’   The march, coupled with a swathe of reporting about the size   of the inaugural crowd from the prior day, led Trump to make a   pair of questionable decisions on day one. ’ ’   First,  ’ ’    ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Anger?” . ”There’’s plenty of anger right   now. How can you have more?” ’ ’   ”David, David  —   I mean, I know you’’re a sophisticated guy,” he   later added. ”The world is a mess. The world is as angry as it   gets. What, you think this is going to cause a little more anger?   The world is an angry place.” ’ ’  ’ ’ was a supporter who tried to cast a ballot   in Florida on Election Day. Trump said Langer was told he could   not vote, while two other people ”who did not look as if they   should be allowed to vote,” were able to cast provisional   ballots, the Times wrote. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’