’  ’ ’   Billionaire businessman Mark Cuban spent the better part of two   days railing on President Donald Trump for rushing to push   through an executive order that temporarily banned travel   into the United States from seven   nations. The   measure has sparked nationwide chaos at airports and leading to   massive protests across the country. ’ ’   Cuban, the star of ABC’’s ”Shark Tank” and owner of the NBA’’s   Dallas Mavericks who was a prominent surrogate for Democratic   presidential nominee Hillary Clinton, came out stronger against   Trump’’s decision than almost any tech or business leader. ’ ’   Cuban posted in a lengthy tweetstorm  ”has shown no ability to lead, build   consensus, or demonstrate understanding of issues”  ”no leader ignores the fears of those who   question  . Obama tried, but failed for many. [Trump] isn’’t   even trying to alleviate fears.” ’ ’   Trump ”fans will accept his decrees,” . ”It requires leadership to demonstrate   to the rest of the   that he understands our issues.” ’ ’   He also blasted Trump for saying he would ”bring the   country together” but, in reality, ”doing the exact opposite   right now.” ’ ’’ ’   ”I’’m not sure he realizes how divisive he is,” the . ’ ’   The executive order imposed a temporary,   suspension of   travel from Sudan, Syria, Iraq, Iran, Somalia, Yemen, and Libya.   It also suspended refugees from entering the country for a     timeframe. ’ ’   The order included a ban of those who hold legal residency   in the US  —   known as holding a green card  —   which led to   widespread confusion at major airports over the weekend, leading   to legal residents being detained. Homeland Security Secretary   John Kelly on Sunday ordered   holders from the   countries to be allowed into the US. ’ ’ issued a   temporary stay preventing authorities from deporting travelers   who were stuck in airports because of the order, but the     legality of it remains unclear. ’ ’   ”We already know Google, Microsoft, and other tech companies have   had their businesses disrupted and have had to deal with 7   country ban,” Cuban  ”how many other businesses, large and small   are having to deal with disruptions to the lives of employees and   their families?” ’ ’   ”Let’’s not forget the disruptions and costs to airports, airlines   and police depts that had no idea this was coming,” he continued.   ”And as [Trump] noted,  are a real issue. So just how   effective will this ban be? How fast will bad guys react?” ’ ’   He called on his followers to ”partner” with conservative groups   to which Trump pays attention to ”change what is happening.” ’ ’   Cuban also expressed belief that the Trump administration was   ”winging it,” in respect to the writing of the executive orders   Trump has signed at breakneck speed during his first full week as   president. ’ ’   ”I’’m arguing that like most of the executive orders, they were   not vetted or thought through,” he wrote. ”It was a couple people   winging it.” ’ ’   Sharing a photo collage of the large protests occurring across   the country in response to the executive order, Cuban also   mockingly said it ”answers the question of whether or not   [Trump] draws the biggest crowds.” ’ ’   ”He does,”  poking fun at Trump’’s promotion of how   large his inaugural crowd was. ’ ’   Cuban also called out billionaire tech investor Peter Thiel  —   a   top Silicon Valley supporter of Trump  —   for his ”current   feelings” on what Trump was doing. Thiel has said that Trump   should be taken ”seriously” but not ”literally” in respect to   many of his more controversial campaign proposals and promises. ’ ’   How wrong was [Thiel] with his ”take him seriously, not   literally?” Cuban wrote. ’ ’   Trump responded to the backlash from politicians, business and   tech leaders, and the masses of Americans protesting the order in   a Sunday evening statement. ’ ’   ”America is a proud nation of immigrants and we will continue to   show compassion to those fleeing oppression, but we will do so   while protecting our own citizens and border,” Trump wrote.   ”America has always been the land of the free and home of the   brave. We will keep it free and keep it safe, as the media knows,   but refuses to say.” ’ ’   ”To be clear, this is not a Muslim ban, as the media is falsely   reporting,” . ”This is not about religion    —   this is about terror and keeping our country safe. There   are over 40 different countries worldwide that are majority   Muslim that are not affected by this order. We will again be   issuing visas to all countries once we are sure we have reviewed   and implemented the most secure policies over the next 90 days.” ’