’  ’ ’   ”Meet the Press” host Chuck Todd grilled President Donald Trump’’s   chief of staff on Sunday over the administration’’s executive   order temporarily barring immigrants from several     countries from entering the US for 90 days. ’ ’   During an interview on ”Meet The Press,” the NBC anchor asked   Reince Priebus to clarify many parts of the executive order,   which    as travelers from seven countries singled out in the measure   were detained or put on return flights by border and customs   agents. ’ ’   The move sparked protests at airports across the US and   led several travelers to immediately bring lawsuits   against the federal government. A federal judge in Brooklyn   issued a temporary stay late Saturday evening preventing the   deportation of affected travelers. ’ ’   ”It seems that a lot of the chaos could’’ve been avoided if you   had some sort of timed grace period. Why wasn’’t that included?”   Todd asked.  ’ ”   Priebus dismissed criticism of the rollout of Trump’s action,   claiming the order resulted in the detention of more than   100 people from the seven countries: Iran, Iraq, Libya,   Somalia,  Syria and Yemen. ” ’’ ’   ”If you talk to people at customs and border patrol, they’’ll say   you’’ve got to rip off the band aid and move forward. And so, it   wasn’’t chaos,” Priebus said. ’ ’   He added: ”Perhaps some of these people should be detained   further, and if they are folks who shouldn’’t be in this country,   they’’re going to be detained. So apologies for nothing here.” ’ ’   The chief of staff also denied  that Trump officials overruled and kept   the Department of Homeland Security out of the loop   about the order, leaving department officials to interpret the   order after it was already signed.  ’ ’   ”We were working with the agencies for a long time,” Priebus   said. ”This was not an executive order that was simply   signed from the White House and suddenly transferred the the   Department of Homeland Security. They knew well what was going   on, and they conducted themselves perfectly pursuant to the   order.” ’ ’   The interview became heated when Todd attempted to clarify   whether lawful permanent residents, referred to as ”    holders,” from the seven countries would be included in the   ban or subject to greater scrutiny. He said   holders   were entitled to the same rights as US citizens. ’ ’   ”How are you confident that doesn’’t violate their rights and   doesn’’t end up making this order unconstitutional?” Todd   asked. ’ ’   Priebus argued that   holders and American citizens   alike would be subjected to greater scrutiny if they traveled   ”back and forth” to the seven affected countries. ’ ’   ”First of all, the order doesn’’t affect   holders going   forward, OK? That’’s No. 1,” Priebus said. ’ ’   ”I’’m confused by that. You keep saying going forward. You just   said it did. I’’m confused,” Todd replied. ’ ’   ”If you had just slowed down a second and listened for a second,   I could answer your question,” Priebus interjected. ’ ’   ”I understand that, but you’’ve twice confused me, so I’’m trying   to understand,” Todd said. ’ ’   ”It’’s because you don’’t stop talking, Chuck. I love you but I   mean, let me answer the question,” Priebus said. ’ ’   Priebus also hinted that there could be similar bans on   other   countries in the future. ’ ’   ”Perhaps other countries needed to be added, but this is all done   for the protection of Americans,” Priebus said.  ’