’  ’ ”   The United States Holocaust Memorial Museum released  amid controversy over President   Donald Trump’s omission of Jews in his own comment on   International Holocaust Remembrance Day.  ” ’   ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’     ”It is with a heavy heart and somber mind that we remember and     honor the victims, survivors, heroes of the Holocaust. It is     impossible to fully fathom the depravity and horror inflicted     on innocent people by Nazi terror.   ’ ’     ”Yet, we know that in the darkest hours of humanity, light     shines the brightest. ’u200e As we remember those who died, we are     deeply grateful to those who risked their lives to save the     innocent.   ’ ’     ”In the name of the perished, I pledge to do everything in my     power throughout my Presidency, and my life, to ensure that the     forces of evil never again defeat the powers of good. Together,     we will make love and tolerance prevalent throughout the     world.”   ’ ’     ”The Holocaust was the systematic,   murder of     six million Jews by Nazi Germany and its collaborators. Nazi     ideology cast the world as a racial struggle, and the singular     focus on the total destruction of every Jewish person was at     its racist core. Millions of other innocent civilians were     persecuted and murdered by the Nazis, but the elimination of     Jews was central to Nazi policy. As Elie Wiesel said, ’’Not     all victims were Jews, but all Jews were victims. ’’   ’ ’     ”The Holocaust teaches us profound truths about human societies     and our capacity for evil. An accurate understanding of     this history is critical if we are to learn its lessons and     honor its victims.   ’ ’     ”A living memorial to the Holocaust, the United States     Holocaust Memorial Museum inspires citizens and leaders     worldwide to confront hatred, prevent genocide, and promote     human dignity. Its   education programs and global     impact are made possible by generous donors. Learn more at     ”   ’ ’The United States Holocaust Memorial Museum. ..’