’  ’ ’   It is sometimes difficult to get a detailed, direct answer from   President Trump and his surrogates on their economic policy.   During the campaign he slid past substance by making sweeping   claims of how, under a Trump administration, the U. S. would ’’”win   bigly” and ”stop being taken advantage of.” ’ ’   Those pronouncements continue. ’ ”   But luckily, there is one voice coming from the White House that   clearly articulates the direction in which it wants this country   to head economically. That voice belongs to Peter Navarro, the   head of Trump’s newly formed  ” ”   Over the last few weeks, Navarro has given a number of interviews   that explain the administration’s propensity for victimhood, an   obsession with Germany, and a   desire to change the   face of the American economy as we know it. ” ’   All of these factors have contributed to growing fears that this   administration will start a trade war with any of the countries   it has scapegoated  —   Mexico, China, or yes, now, Germany. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Those are dramatic words, that could easily . So you should know what’s coming. ” ”   Perhaps the most notable thing about Navarro is the work he’s   done on China. For one thing, it’s an indication of why he (a   Democrat by registration) was chosen by Trump.  His 2011   book ’Death by China’ was turned into a documentary y ” ”   In it, he argues many of the things Trump argued on the campaign   trail  —   that China is manipulating its currency in order to   export more goods to the United States; that it’s hurting our   manufacturing sector. ” ’   One expert claims that  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   The reality is that for the past year or so our trade deficit    and Germany has narrowed without the   government making threats or accusations. ’ ”   According to Deutsche Bank, China only accounts for 16% of our   trade deficit. And when it comes to service industries like   banking, healthcare and technology we’ve been running a trade   surplus with China. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Again, yes the U. S. economy is the envy of the world for its high   tech sector and services sectors, but that ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   The work of multilateral trade deals has been done, and with some   difficulty. But the Trump administration would like to undo them. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’     ’ ”   Listen to Business Insider’s Linette Lopez and Josh Barro talk   Trump and trade on their podcast,  ” ’ ’ ’     ’ ’It is sometimes difficult to get a detailed. ..’