’  ’ ’   President Donald Trump on Tuesday nominated Judge Neil   Gorsuch, who serves on the 10th US Circuit Court of Appeals in   Denver, to serve on the US Supreme Court. ’ ’   ”Judge Gorsuch has a superb intellect, an unparalleled legal   education, and a commitment to interpreting the Constitution   according to its text. He will make an incredible Justice as soon   as the Senate confirms him,” Trump said in a statement. ’ ’     ’ ’   Trump said during his campaign that he would seek to ”appoint   judges very much in the mold of Justice [Antonin] Scalia”  —   a   characteristic that Gorsuch embodies in particular. ’ ”   In a speech to Case Western Reserve University’s law school   shortly after Scalia’s death in February 2016, Gorsuch praised   Scalia for his unyielding textualism  —   interpreting a law   according to its plain text, rather than considering the intent   of the lawmakers or the consequences of its implementation. ” ’   Gorsuch said Scalia’’s greatest achievement was perhaps his   emphasis on the differences between legislators, who, he said,   use the law according to their own morals and ambitions for   society’’s future, and judges, who ”should do none of these things   in a democratic society.” ’ ’   ”Judges should instead strive, if humanly and so imperfectly, to   apply the law as it is, focusing backward, not forward, and   looking to text, structure, and history to decide what a   reasonable reader at the time of the events in question would   have understood the law to be,” Gorsuch said. ’ ’   Scalia’’s method of statutory interpretation was done ”correctly”   and was undoubtedly a ”success,” according to Gorsuch, who quoted   Scalia as saying: ”If you’’re going to be a good and faithful   judge, you have to resign yourself to the fact that you’’re not   always going to like the conclusions you reach. If you like them   all the time, you’’re probably doing something wrong.” ’ ’   Similarly, Gorsuch also supports originalism, meaning he seeks to   interpret the law according to the meaning of the Constitution as   it was written. Gorsuch would frequently ask his clerks to scour   historical sources when a constitutional issue arose in a case,    one of his former clerks, wrote in a blog post   for the Yale Journal on Regulation. ’ ’   ”’’We need to get this right,’’ was the motto  —   and right meant ’’as   originally understood,’’” Feder said. ’ ’  ’ ’   Gorsuch, who at 49 would be the youngest justice on the current   Supreme Court bench, comes with a prestigious academic and legal   background, as well as staunchly conservative credentials. ’ ”   He graduated from Harvard Law School and clerked for Supreme   Court justices Byron White and Anthony Kennedy. A Denver native,   Gorsuch was appointed in 2006 by President George W. Bush to the   federal appeals court for the 10th circuit. He worked in the   administration’s Justice Department before his appointment. ” ’   Like Scalia, Gorsuch has become known for his writing style,   which is often infused with his wit and personality. But, in a   departure from the famously combative justice, Gorsuch has a   reputation for projecting an easygoing demeanor  —   a trait that   could work in his favor during confirmation hearings in which   Democrats have vowed to fight ”.” ’ ’   ”I think the conservatives will love him and the liberals will   find very little to fault,” Mark Hansen, a former partner of   Gorsuch’’s at Kellogg Huber Hansen, . ”He’’s an affable, collegial, unpretentious man with   a good sense of humor.” ’ ”   Gorsuch is also known for his votes and opinions in favor of   religious liberty. In  he sided with claimants Hobby Lobby   and Little Sisters of the Poor, who argued that their religious   beliefs were violated by the Affordable Care Act’s contraceptive   mandate. ” ’   The government must not force those with ”sincerely held   religious beliefs” to be complicit in ”conduct their religion   teaches to be gravely wrong,” Gorsuch wrote in his opinion. ’ ’   The case went to the Supreme Court in 2014. In a   vote, it   came to the same decision as Gorsuch. ’ ’   In criminal law, too, Gorsuch applies a textualist interpretation   and often sides with defendants over prosecutors in an effort to   avoid criminalizing conduct that could potentially be innocent. ’ ”   In one 2013 case, for instance, Gorsuch upheld a lower court’s   ruling that  Colorado, who used a stun gun on      Ryan Wilson, who died from the incident, had   qualified immunity, . ” ’   According to Gorsuch, all officers were protected under broadly   applied   laws, with the exception of ”the   plainly incompetent or those who knowingly violate the law.” ’ ’   Gorsuch has also been a staunch opponent of what he calls   ”executive overreach,” a position that could appease many   Republicans who criticized the Obama administration’’s use of   executive orders to cut through congressional gridlock, while   also reassuring Democrats worried about the ramifications of   Trump’’s executive orders. ’ ’   Executive bureaucracies,  ”concentrate federal power in a way   that seems more than a little difficult to square with the   Constitution of the framers’’ design.” ’ ’   ”Maybe the time has come to face the behemoth,” he wrote. ’ ’   In keeping with Republican tradition, Gorsuch leans in favor of   state power over federal power  —   an approach that can be   challenging in   cases that frequently revolve around   the power of ”rogue” state laws, Justin Marceau, a University of   Denver law professor, . ’ ’   ”We would see a judge who, while perhaps not as combative in   personal style as Justice Scalia, is perhaps his intellectual   equal,” Marceau said, ”and almost certainly his equal on   conservative jurisprudential approaches to criminal justice and   social justice issues that are bound to keep coming up in the   country.” ’