’  ’ ”   Susan Buffett didn’t find out her father, billionaire Warren   Buffett, was rich until her early 20s. And she definitely didn’t   hear it from her parents. ” ’   ”I didn’t really have any idea about any money   until I was long out of high school and out of Omaha,” Susan   recently told Business Insider. ”There was an article in the Wall   Street Journal at one point when I was probably about 22 or 23,   I’’d say. That was the first time I was like, ’’Oh, there’’s more   going on than I knew about! ’’” ’ ’takes part in a portrait of her father, HBO’’s   ”Becoming Warren Buffett,” which premiered Monday. In the   documentary, Susan provides a lot of intimate details about her   parents, growing up in the family’’s home in Omaha, Nebraska, and   what drove her father to give away a large chunk of his fortune   to charitable causes. ’ ’   As for finding out that her father was rich from a news article,   she attributes it to her modest upbringing. ’ ’   ”When we were growing up he didn’t have a lot of money and he   wasn’t famous,” she said. ”So we didn’t see anything but a   regular, normal situation in our house. He went to the office   every day, he came home, he was at the dinner table. He did go   upstairs and read the rest of the evening, but he was home. And   we lived pretty much like everybody else. Nothing was too   different. Really, we lived in what I guess I would describe as   an    neighborhood. He still lives in the same   house today.” ’ ’  ’ ’   There were certainly signs that her father was doing well, such   as when her mother started a scholarship program when Susan was   in high school. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”I may have been a senior in high school then,” Susan recalled.   ”And I remember Adam Smith came to visit our house in Omaha. And   I remember when I heard the name of the book was ’’Supermoney,’’ I   was like, ’’Okay, that’s something’’ [laughs]. But I still   don’t really think we talked about it.” ’ ”Susan Buffett didn’t find out her father. ..”