’ History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were ”resolved” when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a    site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of   data to save for future generations. ’ ’ The main site for Archive Team is at  and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. ’ ’ This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive,   datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the  providing a path back to lost websites and work.  ’ ’ Our collection has grown to the point of having   for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. ’ ’ The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures.  ’ ’ ’ ’ To use ArchiveBot, drop by #archivebot on EFNet. To interact with ArchiveBot, you issue commands by typing it into the channel. Note you will need channel operator permissions in order to issue archiving jobs. The dashboard shows the sites being downloaded currently. ’ ’ There is a dashboard running for the archivebot process at . ’ ” ArchiveBot’s source code can be found at . ’t” ’  ’ ’   Since the end of World War II, the US has gone from being a   nation of canned beans and thousands of creamed vegetable recipes   to being a country of fresh fruits and vegetables all year long. ’ ’   These are nice things, and because of President Donald Trump, we   may very well be about to have them taken away. ’ ’   According to Dolia Estevez, a journalist based in Washington, DC,   Trump was incredibly nasty to Mexican President Enrique Peña   Nieto on a recent phone call. ’ ’   ”I don’’t need the Mexicans. I don’’t need Mexico,” Trump  the Mexican president. ”We are going to build   the wall and you all are going to pay for it, like it or not.” ’ ”   That’s really, really not true. It’s also all very, very bad. ” ’’ ’   On the call, Trump reportedly threatened Peña Nieto with a 10%   tax on Mexican exports and a 35% tax on exports that hurt Mexico   the most. Problem is, that would just really hurt us. ’ ”   The Wilson Center, a nonpartisan think tank, estimates that    depend on our trade with Mexico,   and if people don’t have jobs, they can’t have any nice   things, American or Mexican. The Peterson Institute  —   another   think tank  —   says a trade war with Mexico and China would push us   into recession. ” ”   So that’s one thing. ” ”   Another thing is that Mexico is the US’s   trading   partner. In 2015, the US imported $295 billion worth of goods   from the country. Here’s how that breaks down, according to the    (emphasis added): ” ’   Fresh fruits and vegetables are nice things.  is a nice thing. Both are now at   risk. ’ ”. Much of the US auto industry’s   supply chain runs through Mexico, where labor is cheaper. The   country shipped $50. 5 billion in finished cars and $51 billion in   car parts to the US in 2015, . Over the past six years, US car   manufacturers have announced investments in Mexico’s auto   industry totaling $24 billion. ” ”   What Trump doesn’t understand is that countries like Mexico can   always retaliate against us if their pride is hurt. And they can   do it with the support of their people  —   it would be a political   win. ” ’   Last week, the president of Mexico’’s national conference of   governors, Gov. Graco Ramirez of Morelos, told a Mexican   newspaper that Trump had declared ”war” on Mexico. ’ ’   ”With Trump, dialogue is exhausted,” Ramirez told El Universal.   ”It doesn’’t make sense to sit down with him. He doesn’’t change   his attitude or his position.” ’ ”   Now, if you listen to what Trump and his administration say about   our economy, they want to change all that anyway. They want to   rip up supply chains and figure out how to force companies to   bring businesses back here. They don’t care who it hurts. ” ’   Peter Navarro, the head of Trump’’s National Trade Council, laid   this callous view of economic policy out in an interview on CNBC   last week. When host Melissa Lee pointed to a Citigroup estimate   that taxing imports from other countries  —   a provision called   ”border adjustment,” which acts like a tariff  —   would be a   massive hit to retail companies’’ earnings and put thousands of   American jobs at risk, Navarro called Citigroup ”fake news.” ’ ’   ”Yeah, well, the Dow just hit 20, 000. How you like them apples?”   he said. ”There are winners and losers.” ’ ”   He’s wildly wrong. In trade wars, there are generally only   losers. By the time countries get back to the table to negotiate,   jobs, savings, and entire ways of life are lost. ” ’   Retired Gen. David Petraeus  too  —   about the danger of   protectionism: ’ ’Since the end of World War II, the US has gone. ..’