’  ’ ”   Mark Cuban continued his opposition campaign to the early days of   Donald Trump’s presidency Wednesday, marking the fifth   consecutive day of his taking aim at the president. ” ’   And following Trump’’s nomination of 10th Circuit Judge Neil   Gorsuch to fill the Supreme Court vacancy left by the late   Justice Antonin Scalia, Cuban had a simple message for Democrats   still trying to figure out how to handle the Trump presidency:   You’’re ”blowing it.” ’ ’   ”The Democrats are blowing it,” he  early Wednesday. ”I think . ..   look, I’’m an independent, I’’m not a Democrat. I don’’t have a   vested interest in the Democratic Party at all. But, what I will   say, at least from my perspective, everything that was wrong with   Republicans during the Obama administration was built around   obstructionism.” ’ ’   Cuban warned Democrats, some of whom are either seeking   to fully oppose all of Trump’’s nominees, including Gorsuch, while   others have already announced their opposition to Trump’’s nominee   for the court, that when the strategy was employed by Republicans   ”it was bad for everybody, bad for the country.” ’ ’   ”And the reality is, that’’s how we ended up with a President   Trump, which, I think, in an honest moment with conservative   leaders, they will tell you they didn’’t want a President Trump,”   he continued. ”They wanted a real conservative.” ’ ’   He questioned why Democrats would want to ”copy” the approach. ’ ’   ”It was everything that was wrong with the Republicans,” he said,   adding, ”They need to take a different approach if they want to   get different results.” ’ ’   The billionaire business mogul went on a  in similar terms Tuesday night,   following Trump’’s announcement. In it, he said ”every reasonable   person HATED” the GOP’’s obstructionist strategy in the Obama   years, which came to a peak when Senate Republicans blocked   Obama’’s nominee to fill Scalia’’s seat early in 2016, Judge   Merrick Garland. ’ ’   ”Bannon is praying the dems take the same approach,” he wrote.   ”They will use it to expand their base and demonize Dems. ’’See,   they hate you & progress. ’’” ’ ’  ’ ’   As he mentioned in his MSNBC interview, Cuban said it would be   wise to make a deal with Trump to give him ”bragging rights.” ’ ’   ”Deal makers love to make deals,” he said. ”Sales people love to   sell. That’’s who he is. All dealmakers will give you something.   Get something. . .. Or dems can do business as usual. Obstruct   every move. Treat him like a politician. How did that work out in   the election?” ’ ’   The owner of the NBA’’s Dallas Mavericks and star of ABC’’s ”Shark   Tank,” who also served as a prominent supporter of Democratic   presidential nominee Hillary Clinton during the general election   campaign, expanded upon this point in the MSNBC interview. ’ ’   ”Donald loves superlatives,” Cuban said. ”He loves being   able to brag. And if you give him something that gives   him bragging rights, [such as] ’’we will make this the fastest   Supreme Court nominee confirmation ever in the history of the   United States. In exchange for that, we want to replace this   cabinet pick or that cabinet pick or have you do this or have you   do that. ’’ ’ ’   Cuban said it’’s ”worth trying,” adding that the voters Democrats   need to worry about in the next election are not those who voted   for Trump or Clinton, but those who voted for neither. ’ ’   ”Those are the people who are going to have the greatest impact   in the next election,” he said. ’ ”   Taking a shot at Trump, Cuban said their was a low bar to get   over for something Trump does to be considered successful, after   being asked for his thoughts on the president’s rollout of his   Supreme Court nominee Tuesday night. ” ’   ”It was a nice presentation,” he said. ”I mean, the bar is low.   All he had to do was not go off on a tangent, which he didn’’t do.   He popped in his typical Trump superlatives . .. it was fine.” ’ ’   It’’s now a ”question of what happens next,” Cuban said,   adding there is still ”a whole lot more we need to learn.” ’ ’   ”I don’’t think his management style is all of a sudden going to   change because he decided to stick to the script for the most   part in presenting the Supreme Court nominee,” he said. ’ ”  —   something he frequently did during the   campaign  —   following the president’s Friday executive order   temporarily barring travel from seven   nations and   all refugees from entering the US. The order  —   which   targeted countries previously identified as terror hotspots   by the Obama administration  —   was met with backlash by many   business leaders and politicians, and it led to chaos at airports   and protests nationwide. ” ’   Cuban spent days tweeting in opposition to the president,   engaged with prominent Trump supporters such as  and began making the   rounds on cable news, hitting CNBC, CNN, and MSNBC.  ’ ’   In the process, he became the   face of opposition to   Trump in the business and tech community, taking a more active   stance against the president than any prominent executive. ’ ’   ”I’’ve been crushing POTUS,” he . ”He has earned   it.” ’ ’Mark Cuban continued his opposition campaign to. ..’