’  ’ ’   Chad Carson has worked in real estate since 2003, strategically   building up a portfolio of 90 rental properties mostly in and   around his hometown in Clemson, South Carolina. ’ ’   After spending his first year out of college scouting properties   for seasoned investors to buy and flip, he started using   ” ” and ”  ”  he said on a   . ’ ’   By 2007, Carson and his business partner owned 50 rental   properties. He said he also lived frugally, at times on just   $20, 000 a year. ’ ’   ”My business partner and I kept our overhead super, super low.   You might flip a few houses and make a bunch of money for the   first six months of the year. The second six months, you might   not make any money or the deal might go bad,” Carson said. ’ ’   ”And so I think the progression was, those first three years, we   got really good at keeping our expenses low, living cheap,” he   explained on the podcast. ”That way, when we didn’’t make money,   all that cash just went in the bank, and we were able to save   that money.” ’ ’’ ’   Save for a few setbacks during the financial crisis, Carson and   his partner continued growing their portfolio over the past   decade. Carson now lives off passive income from the rental   properties,  with his wife and two young daughters. ’ ’   At just 37 years old, Carson considers himself financially   independent and says it’’s all thanks to a timeless investing   strategy: ”Keep it simple.” ’ ’   ”I think keep it simple in a couple of different ways, just the   personal finance stuff of just increasing your savings rate and   keeping your life simple, that’’s really what it all comes down   to. Whether you invest in stocks, index funds, or real estate,   there’’s really no changing the basic formula that you have to   save money and you’’ve got to keep your expenses low,” Carson   said, adding that this strategy is the basis of investing icon   Warren Buffett’’s success. ”[T]hat simplicity is really important.   But then, also the simplicity of your investments.” ’ ’   Carson explained: ’ ’   Carson recommends a book called ””   for anyone interested in keeping it simple in real estate   investing.  ’ ’Chad Carson has worked in real estate since. ..’