’  ’ ’   When Snapchat parent company Snap Inc. goes public next month,   its sale will prove a windfall for a handful of executives who   helped grow the company from a tiny startup to $25 billion   juggernaut in five years. ’ ’   That includes one unlikely addition: chief strategy officer Imran   Khan. ’ ”   Khan, only at Snap for about two years, has been granted $145   million worth of shares, the company said in a filing on February   2. They’ll likely be worth a lot more at the IPO price.   And he was paid a $5 million bonus last year. ” ’   Not bad for a guy who, not long ago, was working for ”some bucket   research shop.” That’’s how one Wall Streeter described Khan’’s   early career. (He did indeed work at a small company, called   Fulcrum Global Partners, until about 2004; it  in 2006.) ’ ”   Khan, 39, joined Snap in early 2015, in part to help chart the   company’s path to an initial public offering, though his official   role has been to build up revenue, expand the business, and   run ad sales. ” ’   He was hired from Credit Suisse, where he was head of global   internet investment banking and was perhaps best known for his   leading role on the initial public offering of the Chinese     giant Alibaba Group in 2014, the largest share sale   ever. ’ ’   When news of his move to Snap broke it made headlines. Khan is   not the only Wall Streeter to wind up playing the ” ” in a   technology startup. Anthony Noto, once the head of technology   banking at Goldman Sachs, was already Twitter’’s finance chief.   Ruth Porat would make the move from Morgan Stanley to Alphabet,   Google’’s parent. ’ ”   But for Khan, this wasn’t the first major pivot in his then     professional career. ” ’   Business Insider spoke with six executives who worked   directly with Khan at various points in his career.  ’ ”   Khan’s career has taken him from an   job at ING   Barings, the Dutch   firm, to conducting     research at JPMorgan and eventually running the   technology banking franchise at Credit Suisse.  ” ’   His former colleagues describe him as ambitious and   strategic in his career choices. Though most spoke in friendly   terms, it’’s clear that his rise and transition from research   analyst to internet banker and now   millionaire   rubbed some the wrong way. One person, for example, felt that   Khan failed to credit others for helping him make the switch from   research to banking, saying Khan ”clawed his way up.” ’ ”   That kind of talk was dismissed by other colleagues as plain old   jealousy among bankers who once would’ve been peers   but found themselves courting Khan for a role on Snap’s   IPO. It is likely to be the biggest tech flotation since   Alibaba’s sale in September 2014.  ” ”   Born and raised in Bangladesh, Khan came to the US as a student,   to Colorado, where he ’s Daniels College of Business in 2000. ” ’   After a  a tiny     startup called   WildBlue, he wound up at ING Barings in New York in 2000,   according to his profile on .   After the banking business was sold to ABN Amro in 2001, he wound   up at Fulcrum  —   the ”bucket research shop.” There, he began to   conduct ” ” research on technology companies such   as Yahoo, Amazon, and Ebay. ’ ”   Khan moved to JPMorgan in 2004 where he eventually became head of   global internet and US entertainment equity research. He’s been   described as steeped in the tech industry, close to executives,   and is married to an executive at an       company. ” ”   At JPMorgan, Khan became one of the   internet analysts   on the Street, landing the coveted top or second spot in   Institutional Investor’s annual rankings of researchers. He was   also one of the youngest managing directors at JPMorgan, having   attained the title at 29.  ” ”   Khan’s meteoric rise and the accolades were carefully cultivated,   one person said. ” ’   ”He’’s a very strategic thinker,” the person said. ”He’’s the type   of guy who ranked at JPMorgan as a research analyst not because   he’’s the smartest guy or the best stock picker . .. but he’’s a   very affable, likable guy. He knew how to work the system.” ’ ’   This person said that Khan would build up relationships with   company CEOs so that he could get the first question on     calls. ”He’’s always thinking about that   stuff.” ’ ”   That strategic thinking soon had Khan building relationships with   China’s budding technology companies, which were flocking to the   US IPO market in the  . The payoff on those came with his   first big switch.  ” ”   In 2011, after six years with JPMorgan, Khan moved to Credit   Suisse to take over the company’s   franchise. It   was Alibaba cofounder Joe Tsai who referred Khan to   Credit Suisse and encouraged him to transition from an analyst to   a banker, three people said.  ” ”   Still, it was a risk for Credit Suisse to pull a research analyst   over to run a critical   division. Khan was   placed under the wing of Bill Brady, then chairman of the bank’s   global technology   group, two people said.   Brady now does that job at Jefferies. ” ’   ”A bevvy of people who made that transition were total failures,”   one person said. ”Imran was more commercial; he felt like a   banker in a research analyst’’s clothing.” ’ ”   With Khan on board, and Chinese companies coming back to the US   markets, Credit Suisse’s   team started to land key   deals. As the firm’s head internet banker, Khan worked on   the IPOs of Groupon, GoDaddy, Box, and the Chinese companies   Weibo and Toudu. Most notable, of course, was Alibaba’s $25   billion flotation.  ” ’   ”Imran is very good in front of people,” one person said. ”He’’s   charming, he’’s very smart, he can connect with people right   away.” ’ ’   Another person credited his success with a ”work ethic and energy   level” that was ”off the charts” and an entrepreneurial spirit   that stood out. ’ ’  ’ ’   Credit Suisse’’s leadership role on the Alibaba deal makes up   a big part of Khan’’s professional legacy. When he moved to Snap,   The Wall Street Journal called him a ”star tech banker.” But   three people told Business Insider that they felt he   received more credit for that role than he was due,   emphasizing that it was a team effort.  ’ ”   Credit Suisse’s relationship with Alibaba predates Khan’s   arrival, they point out, and laid mostly with Vikram Malhotra,   the then head of investment banking for Asia Pacific, and Boon   Sims, who was global head of mergers and acquisitions. ” ’   But even those who credit Malhotra for winning Credit Suisse, the   business said there is no bad blood between the two men. The   two bankers worked hand in hand on the deal, speaking every day,   and they are still close, one person said. ’ ’   Imran stood out because he is the type of person who likes the   spotlight, while Malhotra does not, another said. ’ ’   Khan’’s ability to put himself in position to run the deal   was ”a testament to his scrappiness and finding   opportunities and seizing opportunities,” another person   said. ’ ’   Still, Khan’’s perceived opportunism has ”probably   rubbed some people the wrong way,” one former colleague   said.  ’ ’   ”I think he’’s a good guy  —   a great guy,” this person added. ”I   think he made a lot of moves that were very targeted and   focused.” ’ ’   Once Imran has decided he wants to get somewhere, he is very good   at figuring out what he needs to do to get there, this person   said. ’ ’   ”If he can position himself and get recognized as the man   behind Alibaba, which he did by getting into the paper and onto   TV  —   at that point he knew that was the best time to make a move   and do something.” ’ ’   ”With Imran, there is no gap between the concept of want and do,”   another person said. ”He will do what it takes to achieve what   he’’s after and if that rubs people the wrong way, it’’s only   because they’’re frustrated that they didn’’t do it   themselves. I think ’’ruffle feathers’’ is really a code word for   either envy or frustration.” ’ ’   One person who has known Khan since ”back when he was a   dorky equity analyst” says he has remained a    and   thoughtful person over the years. ’ ’   ”He’’s still kind of got that nerdy thing to him,” the person   said. ”He’’s not a glitzy guy.” ’ ’   So a few years ago when Snapchat  —   then a    company   with a    CEO who had already turned down a $3 billion   offer from Facebook  —   came knocking, Khan went for it. ’ ”   While his closeness with Wall Street and experience with   Alibaba was widely interpreted as an indication that the company   would one day look to go public, his role has been to direct   the company’s business strategy. ” ”   He helped grow Snap’s revenue from $58. 7 million at the end of   2015 to $404. 5 million at the end of   2016. The company  over the   summer to expand the advertising business.  ” ’   ”He never assumes that something is just going to happen for   him,” one person said. ”He doesn’’t sort of sit back and say,   ’’Maybe the phone will ring. ’’ I think he showed that at Snapchat   and the way he pursued the business relationships and built   up the marketing side of the business.” ’ ’   Khan has also been working with the chief financial officer,   Drew Vollero, to quarterback the bankers on the deal. ’ ’   Bankers who know Khan said he has stayed in touch since   moving to Snapchat, but not as much as he used to. ’ ’   ”He’’s become more private since working at Snapchat,” one person   said, noting CEO Evan Spiegel’’s penchant for secrecy.  ’ ”   Snap’s lead underwriters are Morgan Stanley  —   which arranged   a credit facility for the company in September  —   and Goldman   Sachs.  ” ”   Despite Khan’s having worked for Credit Suisse, Snap did not   choose that firm for a lead role. Instead, it went with two   firms that had given Khan a hard time during the Alibaba   IPO. (Credit Suisse is still on the deal, however, along with   JPMorgan, Deutsche Bank, Allen & Company, and Barclays.) ” ’  ’ ’   ”What’’s interesting is there’’s no love lost with Morgan and   Goldman [and Khan],” one person familiar with the matter said.   Bankers from Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs would blame Khan   for everything that went wrong on Alibaba, the person said,   dismissing him as a research analyst who didn’’t know anything   about banking. ’ ’   ”I’’m shocked he didn’’t penalize them more,” the person said. ’ ’   Regardless of the former colleagues who loved or envied him, Khan   holds all the cards now.  ’ ’   ”If Goldman and Morgan Stanley are on a deal where the company is   not so hot, they can dictate what happens. In this case, the   client can dictate everything,” another person said. ”Snap   is not going to kowtow to any of these people.” ’ ’When Snapchat parent company Snap Inc. goes. ..’