’  ’ ”   It’s the most wonderful time of the year! ” ’   On Sunday from Houston, the New England Patriots and Atlanta   Falcons square off in Super Bowl LI. ’ ’   For the Patriots, a win would give Tom Brady and Bill Belichick   their fifth title, all but cementing them as the greatest     combo in football history. ’ ”   But don’t forget about the Falcons, who are in search of their   first Super Bowl win and their city’s second championship ever.   Matt Ryan is having an MVP season, and the offense stacks up with   some of the best offenses ever. ” ”   There’s plenty to keep an eye on while you’re watching on Sunday:   How will the Patriots slow down Julio Jones and the     Falcons offense? Conversely, how will the Falcons stop Brady? ” ’’ ’   If all goes according to plan, this could be the     Super Bowl in recent memory. ’ ”   As is tradition around these parts, in honor of the Super Bowl we   corral the larger Business Insider sports team  —   reporters and   editors, present and past  —   to make a prediction before Sunday.   Last year, of the six predictions, only two of us correctly   picked the Broncos to beat the Panthers. Let’s see if we can do   better this year. ” ’   Enjoy the game, everyone! ’ ’ TONY MANFRED: FALCONS +3 ’ ”   I’m going to go with the Falcons outright. The Patriots’ schedule   was really soft, so I don’t know if they’re really as dominant as   people think. The best team they played might have been the   Seahawks, who beat them and then got smoked by Atlanta. ” ’   FALCONS 31, PATRIOTS 23 ’ ’ LEAH GOLDMAN: FALCONS +3 ’ ”   The Falcons have the best offense in the league. Matt Ryan and   Julio Jones are unstoppable. But on top of that   duo, you’ve   got some of the best running backs in the league. I also think   the Falcons have more to play for. It has been 18 years since   they’ve had a shot at a Super Bowl ring, and the Pats get there   every other year. ” ’   I think the Falcons are going to take it in a   close   one. ’ ’   FALCONS 30, PATRIOTS 27 ’ ’ BRETT LOGIURATO: PATRIOTS   ’ ”   The Falcons have impressed and overperformed expectations at   pretty much every turn this season. In the divisional round, the   Seahawks were a popular upset pick. In the NFC Championship, the   Packers were supposed to be peaking at the exact right time. Both   times, Atlanta’s explosive offense, with an     quarterback and perhaps the NFL’s best wide receiver, breezed   into the next round. ” ”   People are finally taking notice and starting to appreciate the   offensive talent this team has. You can bet that includes Bill   Belichick, who has had two whole weeks to prepare a game plan.   And it’s hard to bet against Belichick when he has two weeks to   prepare  —   not to mention the regular season’s No.     defense by points allowed. There’s a good reason that since 2010,   head coaches are   against Belichick when facing him for the   first time. ” ’   Sunday, of course, will be the first time Dan Quinn faces   Belichick. ’ ’   PATRIOTS 27, FALCONS 23 ’ ’ CORK GAINES: FALCONS +3 ’ ”   While the Patriots have the experience and the better overall   résumé this season, these two teams actually enter the Super Bowl   equally hot. Over the Patriots’ last eight games (including the   playoffs) they are   and have outscored their opponents by 137   points (17. 1 points per game). During the same stretch, the   Falcons are   and have outscored their opponents by 136 points   (17. 0 points per game). With two evenly matched teams in such a   big game, look for it to take a while for the scoring to get   started as the teams feel each other out and settle for field   goals early in the game. Eventually, the offenses will warm up,   and when they do, that favors the Falcons. ” ’   FALCONS 30, PATRIOTS 23 ’ ’ SCOTT DAVIS: FALCONS +3 ’ ’   This game is going to come down to points. If you wanna beat the   New England Patriots, you gotta score points, and I think this   Falcons team can do that. Now, you start talking about a Matt   Ryan, a Julio Jones, a Mohamed Sanu, a Taylor Gabriel, who came   on this season, you start talking about offensive firepower. Add   to those receiving weapons, you have the   running back   monster that is Devonta Freeman and Tevin Coleman  —   two       football players who just get you yards.   And on the other side of the ball, you have a quick, fast, speedy   defense that can get to the ball, get to the quarterback, and   really give these Patriots some problems. ’ ’   The Falcons will have to play a perfect game to beat Tom Brady   and Bill Belichick, but I think they can do it. ’ ’   FALCONS 36, PATRIOTS 34 ’ ’ EMMETT KNOWLTON: PATRIOTS   ’ ”   There’s every reason to believe in the Falcons. Their running   game is stellar, and their aerial attack is so well rounded that   Matt Ryan somehow has a  when Julio Jones, the best wide receiver   in football, isn’t on the field. ” ”   But I worry about Atlanta’s defense and its ability to get to Tom   Brady. Think about the teams that have managed to actually beat   the Patriots in the playoffs recently. Both times the Giants beat   the Patriots in the Super Bowl, their defensive fronts were the   lifeblood of the team. Last year, the Broncos had Von Miller, who   terrorized Brady and then terrorized Cam Newton en route to a   Super Bowl MVP. No offense to Vic Beasley, but I’m just not sure   the Falcons have a defense that is quite good enough. ” ’   PATRIOTS 34, FALCONS 27 ’ ”It’s the most wonderful time of the year! On. ..”