’massive crowds and overpriced hotels.’ ’Often, the    —   or even better, shoulder season  —   can be the best time to visit a place.’ ’ teamed up with  to find the best international destination to visit each month of the year.’ ’ looked at some of the most popular international destinations, and calculated’ ’’ ’Median airfare: $397’ ”January is the cheapest time to fly to Cartagena, and just so happens to be the month Storyland, a   festival that features the world’s biggest DJs, takes place.” ’Median airfare: $521Median hotel: $137’ ”It’s cold and you understandably want some sun. Head to Martinique, where February is low rain season and sunny skies beckon. Even better, Martinique’s currency is the euro, meaning you can make the most of its favorable exchange rate, and the fact that you can get good deals even when booking last minute. ” ’Median airfare: $454’ ’Medellin was crowned  and made our list of . Cross it off your bucket list before everyone else does and prices rise. ’ ’Median airfare: $736’ ”Prices are cheaper in the spring than they are in the summer, and London’s spring weather is just lovely. Even better, the Queen’s birthday is on April 21st, so the city will be in high spirits.” ’’ ”May sees both the lowest airfares and hotel rates in Auckland, as well as smaller crowds, so make the most of that. Plus, it’s fall in New Zealand, so you can expect mild temperatures.” ’Median airfare: $1, 170 ’ ’June is an ideal time to visit Bali, as you avoid the crowded high season, as well as the costs and crowds associated with it. Plus, the weather is still dry.’ ’’ ’ and July is a great time to do so. Escape the summer heat for some milder temps, as well as an incredible 24 hours of sunlight. According to KAYAK, booking six months out will likely provide you with the lowest airfare.’ ’’ ”Visit Tokyo before it hosts the 2020 games, and prices go up. While the humidity is high this time of year, you may find less crowds. According to KAYAK, you’re likely to get the lowest airfare by booking five months in advance.” ’Median airfare: $760’ ” party scene. September boasts some of the city’s warmest temperatures and gets you in just before the rainy season.” ’Median airfare: $959 ’ ’October marks the end of the monsoon season and some of the lowest median prices on airfare and hotels. The Maldives is one of the few places you can get a   stay for the same price as   so prepare to live large.’ ’’ ’’ ’Median airfare: $453’ ”Cancun is blissfully free of spring breakers this time of year, which, outside of hurricane season, boasts some of Cancun’s lowest airfare rates, especially when booking one month out.” ’ ’ ”There’s nothing worse than hitting a. ..”