’  ’ ’   Prior to Donald Trump winning the presidency and using the term   as a cornerstone of his inaugural address, ”America First” was   best known as an   isolationist movement that took   shape in the US before the nation’’s entry into World War II. ’ ’   The most infamous America Firster was the aviator Charles   Lindbergh, who argued against American involvement in Europe. ’ ”   Accused of Nazi sympathies, Lindbergh didn’t play a major role in   the war and faded from view after hostilities ended. His fame   rested on having been the first man to fly   across the   Atlantic. ” ”   It’s understandable that the phrase would confuse multinational   business leaders in the second decade of the 21st century. The   Allies won the war and then commenced decades of economic and   military integration, leading to the development of global   markets  —   the world that Carlos Ghosn, the cosmopolitan CEO of   the   Alliance, inhabits. America First was a     relic. ” ’   Ghosn  —   born in Lebanon, raised in Brazil, educated in France  —     became CEO of   in 2001 and for a decade and a half   has been responsible for this   hybrid, which not   incidentally sells a lot of cars and trucks in the US. ’ ’   At the Detroit auto show last month, Ghosn held a roundtable   discussion with the media and spent a fair amount of time, in the   days before Trump’’s inauguration, visibly grappling with the   ”America First” idea.  ’ ’     ’ ’  ’ ’   ”If there is free trade, it should be good for me,” Ghosn said   when asked to describe what American First means  —   with the ”me”   being the Trump’’s USA.  ’ ’   He added that part two of his understanding of American First is   that it prioritizes ”American jobs.” ’ ’   Simple.  ’ ”   For the most part, Ghosn took a cautiously flexible attitude   toward what   might be up against if Trump’s   policies favor domestic US manufacturing. ” ”   For starters, Nissan builds cars in both Tennessee and   Mississippi, but jobs in those reliable GOP states won’t help   Trump.  That’s because Trump needs the hiring to happen in   Michigan and Ohio, which are the states he sought out during the   2016 election and will need again to get   in   2020.  ” ’   So some new jobs might be better than others, and Ghosn might not   gain much by pointing out that there were exactly zero car   factories in Tennessee before Nissan landed in Smyrna back in   1983 (GM followed in the 1990s with its Spring Hill factory). ’ ’   As for NAFTA, Ghosn threw up his hands slightly when asked about   the trade agreement, relevant to   as the automaker   operated three plants in Mexico. ’ ’   ’’The only rules in place were NAFTA,” Ghosn said. ”We played by   the rules.” ’ ’   Since Trump took office, his relations with the Detroit Big Three   have been far more visible than his dealings with any of the     foreign ”transplant” automakers, many of whom like   Nissan have been building and hiring in the US for decades, in   the Republican stronghold that is the US South.  ’ ’   Ghosn ”take it as it goes” attitude is understandable, and by   taking Trump at his word on America First, he might actually be a   good position to work with the new administration. ’ ’Prior to Donald Trump winning the presidency. ..’