’  ’ ’   Neil Gorsuch, the 10th Circuit judge nominated by President   Donald Trump to fill the vacant seat on the US Supreme   Court, is widely expected to favor big business should he be   confirmed by the Senate. ’ ’   ”The [Chief Justice John] Roberts court has been the most     Supreme Court in the history of the court,” Michael   Burg, founder of the   law firm Burg, Simpson,   Eldredge, Hersh & Jardine, told Business Insider. ’ ’   ”When I look at Judge Gorsuch, do I think he is  ? The   answer is yes,” he added. ”Does he match up with Justice Scalia   in terms of his view of the Constitution and that you have to go   back and look at the Constitution in terms of how the framers and   the founders meant it to be in 1789? Yes.” ’ ’   Carter Phillips, a Washington, DC, lawyer who has argued before   the Supreme Court more than any other attorney in private   practice, said a Gorsuch appointment to the court would, in all   likelihood, keep with the ”status quo.” ’ ’   ”It will be pretty much how the court was prior to Justice   Scalia’’s death,” he said, later adding, ”[It] will largely be the   path the court will continue [on] in a way that is fundamentally   different than the way it would’’ve if Judge [Merrick] Garland’’s   nomination had not died on the vine the way it did.”  ’ ’   But, both said they believe the door is open to some change. ’ ”   The expectation has been drawn from the opinions he   authored while serving on the 10th Circuit court’s bench. In that   role, he was not able to rule on many big     cases, due to the court’s locale. ” ’   As a result, how he would rule on several major   business issues almost certain to hit the court within the   next few years is not fully known. ’ ’   ”I don’’t view Judge Gorsuch as a clone of Justice Scalia,”   Phillips said. ”I’’m sure he may have places where he differences   with [Scalia] on particular nuances.” ’ ’   One of the biggest upcoming areas where Gorsuch could potentially   make a difference is in his interpretation of what’’s known as   ”Chevron deference,” named for a 1984 case in which the court   ruled the interpretation of a government agency should   be deferred to when a law or statute it administers is under   question. It quite predictably has a major affect on the   regulatory state, and critics say it provides such agencies   with vast power not permitted to other sectors of the   government.  ’ ”   It’s one of several   areas where those watching   the court have a sense of where Gorsuch would come down, as    avowed textualist and originalist. ” ’   In a concurring opinion last August, Gorsuch said ”Chevron   deference” allows the executive branch to ”swallow huge amounts   of power” from the judicial and legislative branches, which   ”seems more than a little difficult to square with the   Constitution of the framers’’ design,” . Scalia . ’ ’   Phillips said to watch for cases related to ”Chevron   deference” should Gorsuch be confirmed. ’ ’   ”That issue, the extent to which the agency interprets its own   authority and can kind of bootstrap itself into kind of expanding   its decision making beyond what you would think the statute would   allow, and whether the courts have to divert that and say ’’no,   no, no, you can’’t go that far’’ is a huge issue,” Phillips said.   ”But again, that will probably take two or three cases before   it’’s settled down and it may not be settled down, because it’’s a     court and it’’s still not clear how far any of the five   conservatives would be willing to go on Chevron.” ’ ’   He added that, while ”a lot of people” will say Gorsuch’’s view is   ”a big change from Scalia,” the late justice was beginning to   move in the direction of Gorsuch in his later decisions on the   matter. ’ ’   ”I know it wasn’’t [Scalia’’s] perspective once upon a time,   but I do think there’’s been a fair amount of movement,” he said.   ”Obviously, Justice [Clarence] Thomas staked out a really   aggressive opinion on that two terms ago. And, I don’’t see a   majority of the justices adopting his view, but I certainly think   it will be a big ticket item. That goes beyond the business   community, because obviously agencies are ubiquitous at this   point. Agencies can decide thousands and thousands of things.” ’ ’   Another   issue Gorsuch has staked out a position   on is class actions.    a December ruling  was a part of ”made   it easier for defendant companies to transfer class actions from   state to federal court in some instances.” ’ ’   Phillips said he expects ”another round of class action issues”   to come around to the Supreme Court soon, adding Gorsuch as   ”expressed some misgivings about more modern interpretations” on   those issues. ’ ’  ’ ” that   Gorsuch’s history shows a mixed record on cases related to labor   and employment, while he has ruled in business’s favor on a   case related to arbitration. ” ”   In terms of what areas are less of a sure thing with Gorsuch,   Phillips said he’s curious to see where the judge stands on   due process limits on punitive damages, the dormant commerce   clause, and intellectual property rights. ” ’   On the controversial 2010 Citizens United decision related   to campaign finance, which ruled corporations and labor unions   could donate freely to politicians as people would, Burg said   Gorsuch’’s stance would likely be ”consistent with the ruling that   would already come down” should a case related to it come before   the court ’ ’   ”But I would have some reservation,” he said. ”Because my   experience with him is that he’’s not a justice who says this   is the result I want, now let me justify it.” ’ ’   Still, the consensus is Gorsuch will rule alongside his fellow   conservative justices on the bench in areas where it is not as   well known where he will come down. ’ ’   Travis Lenkner, a managing director at Burford Capital who   once clerked for Justice Anthony Kennedy, told Business   Insider that’’s why he believed ”you saw this pick cheered among   the business community.” ’ ’   ”This is not swapping like for like,” he said. ”But Judge Gorsuch   is easily someone who can swap in and occupy the seat that   Justice Scalia occupied and do so ably and not really change the   mix of outlooks or votes that’’s been present on the court for   more than a decade now.” ’ ’Neil Gorsuch, the 10th Circuit judge nominated. ..’