’  ’ ”   The target of last week’s military raid in Yemen is not only   still alive, but has released an audio recording mocking   President Donald Trump. ” ”   Military and intelligence officials told  that the goal of the Navy SEALS operation   was to capture or kill Qassim   the head of al Qaeda’s   Yemeni affiliate. The raid claimed the lives of 14 Al Qaeda   fighters, at least two dozen civilians, and US serviceman William   Owens  —   but   remains alive in Yemen, NBC News reported. ” ’     released an audio recording on Sunday in which he   referenced the raid and called Trump ”the goat of the White   House,” according to NBC News, who authenticated the tape with   military sources. ’ ’   ”The fool of the White House got slapped at the beginning of his   road in your lands,” he reportedly said. ’ ’   also identified by name 25   purported victims of the attack. ’ ’’ ”   It wasn’t clear whether   was at the scene of the raid,   according to the report. ” ’   The report seemed to belie comments from White House spokesman   Sean Spicer, who last week called the raid very, very well   thought out and executed” and ”a successful operation by all   standards.” According to the report, the prospect of killing     convinced US officials to carry out the mission. ’ ’   However, the raid still may have sent a message to Al Qaeda, an   NBC source said. ’ ’   ”We may have collected incredibly valuable intelligence that will   lead to further disruptions and further counterterrorism   activities down the road,” said Juan Zarate, an NBC analyst and   national security adviser to George W. Bush. ’ ’   Some critics of the raid have directed their ire toward Trump.   Military officials  that Trump authorized the mission   without sufficient intelligence, ground support, or adequate   backup preparations. However, the White House has rejected that   account, noting that plans for the strike began months ago, while   Barack Obama was in office. ’ ”The target of last week’s military raid in. ..”