LAUSANNE, Switzerland  —   Talks among the United States, Russia and critical Middle East states aimed at brokering a new pause in Syria’s war broke up after a few hours on Saturday without signs of progress, or a break in the Syrian government’s ferocious assault on   parts of the city of Aleppo. Secretary of State John Kerry began the talks in the Swiss lakeside city of Lausanne, meeting one on one with his Russian counterpart, Sergey V. Lavrov. Their   encounter, described as “businesslike” by a State Department spokesman, John Kirby, came 12 days after Washington suspended bilateral contacts with Moscow and called for a war crimes investigation into Russian actions in Syria. Mr. Kerry and Mr. Lavrov then headed into talks with the foreign ministers from regional powers involved in the conflict, including Iran, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and Turkey, along with the United Nations mediator, Staffan de Mistura. The diplomats left about four hours later with terse comments that gave away nothing of substance. Before the talks began, both sides played down prospects of a breakthrough. Mr. Kerry, who was expected to leave Sunday for talks in London with the foreign ministers of Britain, France and Germany, told reporters that discussions with Russia and the Middle Eastern states would resume on Monday. Mr. Lavrov went into the talks saying he would focus on fulfilling an earlier agreement that called for separating   rebels in Syria from   jihadist groups like the Nusra Front, which is linked to Al Qaeda and now calls itself the Levant Conquest Front. He emerged from the meetings saying only that the parties had discussed “some ideas” and had agreed to meet in coming days, “expecting certain agreements which would help promote” a settlement, the   news agency reported. That brought no prospect of early relief for the beleaguered quarter of a million residents of   eastern Aleppo, who are facing what international aid agencies have called the heaviest bombardment since the collapse of a truce three weeks ago. Syrian and Russian aircraft bombed four hospitals in Aleppo on Friday, causing severe damage to a major trauma facility, Doctors Without Borders reported, calling it the worst damage inflicted on already battered health facilities since the end of September. An ambulance driver was killed and two doctors were wounded on Friday, Doctors Without Borders said. At least 62 people were killed, and more than 465 people were wounded in the bombing and shelling over the previous three days, the group said. United Nations agencies say several hundred residents of eastern Aleppo desperately need medical evacuation, and the agencies have prepared hospitals in Syria and Turkey to receive them. However, efforts to get the wounded and sick out, or to provide the city with food and medical supplies, have been blocked by the fighting. “The indiscriminate bombing campaign has taken a clear turn for the worse,” Carlos Francisco, the head of the Syria mission for Doctors Without Borders, said in a statement on Saturday. “By damaging the few remaining places where lives can be saved, it is clear that Syria and Russia are squeezing the life out of eastern Aleppo. ”