’  ’ ’   North Carolina may be in danger of losing more than 100   major sporting events over the next five years if it doesn’’t   repeal its controversial ”bathroom law.” ’ ”   The NCAA is threatening to remove from consideration all of the   state’s bids to host championship events through   2022, according to the North Carolina Sports   Association. In a letter to state lawmakers on Monday, the   association warned that keeping the law on the books could result   in as much as half a billion dollars in economic losses. ” ’   ”In a matter of days, our state’’s sports tourism industry will   suffer crushing,   losses and will essentially close its   doors to NCAA business,” wrote Scott Dupree on behalf of the   sports association. ”Our window to act is closing rapidly.” ’ ”   The NCAA will begin the process of evaluating and removing the   state’s 133 bids in seven to 10 days, Dupree said. ” ’   ”Our last chance to save these events is now. It will be a shame   if [the law] is resolved one day too late,” he wrote in the   letter. ’ ’   Business leaders and advocates of LGBT rights have excoriated the   bathroom law, known as House Bill 2, since it was signed into law   by former Gov. Pat McCrory nearly a year ago. The     legislation blocks North Carolina towns from   passing legal protections for LGBT people, effectively   forcing transgender people to use the public restrooms   and locker rooms that correspond with their biological sex   instead of their gender identity. ’ ’   The law sparked a firestorm of outrage in the Tar Heel State,   leading the NCAA and Atlantic Coast Conference to relocate    from the state slated   for this academic year. Events that were moved included March   Madness basketball games and the lucrative ACC football   title game. ’ ’   The NCAA said at the time that its decision was based on ”the   cumulative actions taken by the state concerning civil rights   protections.” The ACC said the law conflicted with its values of   ”equality, diversity, inclusion and  .” ’ ’   The NBA also moved its upcoming   Game to New Orleans   after originally awarding it to Charlotte. ’ ”   The potential penalties suggested in Monday’s letter raise the   ante significantly and will place additional pressure on North   Carolina’s   legislature to repeal the   law. ” ”   Efforts to repeal HB2 fell short in December during  when Republicans   only agreed to strike the law from the books if they could   instate an indefinite moratorium during which some of the law’s   provisions would effectively still be in place. Democrats voted   that legislation down, as did some Republicans who opposed   repealing HB2 altogether. ” ’  ’ ”   A new repeal effort hasn’t gained momentum in the General   Assembly, . In Monday’s letter, the   North Carolina Sports Association was careful not to appear   partisan but nonetheless painted a grim future for the state   if it doesn’t take action. ” ’   ”This letter is not intended to be political in any way, but   rather objective and   so that all interested parties   will have a clear understanding of what’’s at stake and the urgent   nature of these potential losses,” Dupree wrote. ’ ” have pegged HB2’s financial fallout in the   hundreds of millions of dollars. On top of the sporting event   relocations, several performers canceled concerts in North   Carolina following the law’s passage, and businesses including   PayPal and Deutsche Bank froze expansion plans that cost the   state hundreds of jobs. ” ”   The law was widely seen to have contributed to McCrory’s loss in   November’s election. His successor, Democrat Roy Cooper, has   vowed to fight the law. ” ’   ”The NCAA news means there is no time to waste in repealing House   Bill 2,” Cooper said  on Monday. ”The bipartisan votes of both Democrats   and Republicans are there for repeal if the Republican   legislative leadership will just put it to a vote.” ’ ’   In a statement to Business Insider, the NCAA said it had not yet   determined future championship sites, and expects to announce its   selections for the   season through   in April. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tNorth Carolina Sports Association letter to NCGA: NCAA will remove all NC bids from consideration for   without  repeal.  ’ ’North Carolina may be in danger of losing. ..’