’  ’ ”   Reports of the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) impending   death may have been greatly exaggerated. ” ”   Florida Republican Rep. Matt Gaetz  (H. R. 861)  to abolish   the EPA, but Democratic congressional staff   told Business Insider that they don’t expect the bill to go   anywhere. ” ’   Gaetz, along with cosponsors Reps. Thomas Massie of Kentucky,   Steven Palazzo of Mississippi, and Barry Loudermilk of Georgia,   is associated with the Tea Party wing of the Republican Party. ’ ’   In  Gaetz   said  the EPA’’s rules and regulations designed to protect   the environment actually hurt people and that the agency has   ”violated the sovereignty of the states.” ’ ’   For evidence, he pointed to coastal wetland protection rules   requiring farmers to get permits before watering their cows from   ponds on their land. He argued that states and local governments   are better positioned to protect ”their environmental assets.” ’ ’’ ’   But congressional staffers told Business Insider that Gaetz, a   freshman congressman, likely lacks the political oomph to push   through such a drastic change to the federal bureaucracy. ’ ”   First, abolishing the EPA would involve repealing a number of   laws entrusting the agency with a number of specific   environmental responsibilities. Second, and perhaps more   importantly, the Republican Party seems to have consolidated   behind the Trump administration’s   though apparently     vision for the agency  —   one that still   represents a significant departure from the status quo under   Trump’s predecessors. ” ”   The president’s exact plans for the agency remain unclear, even   to  and . ” ”   However, the available evidence suggests that people in Trump’s   orbit want to radically downsize the agency while keeping it   running. And the White House has already taken steps designed to   . ” ”   There’s no evidence though to suggest that Trump’s team or   Republican leadership in Congress will take steps to dismantle it   entirely. If they did intend to do so, it seems unlikely that   they’d still be working to get aspiring EPA administrator    confirmed. ” ”   That said, Democrats aren’t ignoring Gaetz’s bill entirely. ” ’   ”It shows how brazen Republicans are in promoting their dirty air   and water and   agenda,” a House Democratic leadership   aide told Business Insider. ’ ’   The idea of abolishing or reducing the power of the EPA isn’’t   entirely new to Republican Party politics  —   even though it   would have been unimaginable under Republican presidents from   Richard Nixon, who oversaw the agency’’s founding, to George W.   Bush, whose EPA head has opposed Trump’’s EPA administrator pick   as ””   of the agency’’s mission. ’ ’   In 2011, a  attracted the 17 cosponsors, including party   leaders like John McCain and Orrin Hatch. However, it failed to   pass out of the   Senate. ’ ’   That same year,   hopeful Newt Gingrich  the agency during a speech in   Iowa.  ’ ’Reports of the Environmental Protection. ..’