”The Federal Reserve’s latest quarterly survey of lending conditions showed a tightening of standards in some sectors that suggests banks are already retrenching, even as the central bank considers additional   increases.” ”Banks also reported weaker demand for most types of mortgage loans over the fourth quarter, the Fed said, perhaps reflecting higher borrowing costs in the wake of Donald Trump’s presidential victory.” ’The most worrisome sign, however, was a pattern seen among .’ ’”Although modest over the past couple of quarters, it is still worth noting that this is now the sixth quarter in succession that standards have tightened for large and medium sized firms,” Deutsche Bank economist Jim Reid wrote in a research note to clients.’ ’”This usually only happens in recessions. ”’ ’’ ’Domestic banks that tightened standards or terms on commercial and industrial loans cited ”a less favorable or more uncertain economic outlook. ”’ ’”The most notable tightening in standards though was in consumer loans,” the Fed said. ”During the quarter, banks reported an 8. 3% net tightening in credit standards for credit cards and 11. 6% net tightening for auto loans. ”’ ”US consumer spending accounts for more than   of economic activity and is thus a key driver of growth in the world’s largest economy.” ”Concerns about the expansion’s sustainability are already  in the prospect that the Fed will be able to deliver the three   increases that many officials, including Fed Chair Janet Yellen, have been talking about for this year.” ”Another notable aspect of the Fed’s Senior Loan Officer Survey was a cooling of demand for commercial and   loans. Some Fed officials like the Boston Fed’s president, Eric Rosengren, have  about a potential bubble in that sector.” ’UBS strategists Stephen Caprio and Matthew Mish dug up another note of caution in the survey, this one from a special question on delinquencies. ”Rising   optimism was balanced out by households stating they were more likely to default on a loan over the next 12 months,” they said.’ ’”Bottom line, there is clear potential for winners and losers   rather than all winners. ”’ ’Get updates in your inbox.’ ’Subscribe to Markets Chart Of The Day and never miss an update!’ ”The Federal Reserve’s latest quarterly survey. ..”