’  ’ ’   There is almost nothing to feel good about right now if you are   the New York Knicks. ’ ’   On Monday night, the team was blown out by the lowly Los   Angeles Lakers to fall to a stunningly bad   on the season.   On Tuesday, team president Phil Jackson took to Twitter to share   some rather inscrutable thoughts that, after   a   appear to be a shot at Carmelo Anthony for   not being the sort of winner both former Jackson superstars   Michael Jordan and Kobe Bryant were. ’ ’   First, the tweet:  ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tBleacher’s Ding almost rings the bell, but I learned you don’t change the spot on a leopard with Michael Graham in my CBA daze. ’t’t” ’   A T. S. Eliot poem this is not. ’ ’   Rather, Jackson seems to be referring to a recent column in    (”Bleacher’’s Ding”). In   Ding’’s column, he criticizes both Anthony and Jackson: Anthony   for not having what he calls the ”will to win” a la past   Jackson superstars, and Jackson for naively believing he could   mold Anthony into a player like Jordan or Bryant.  ’ ’  ’ ’   Returning to Jackson’’s tweet, he seems to be saying that Ding’’s   assessment of the situation is nearly correct (it   ”almost rings the bell”). ’ ’   The difference, however, is that in Jackson’’s mind he knew he   could never change Anthony. Jackson here refers to his   days (”daze”) coaching former Georgetown great Michael   Graham on the Albany Patroons in the Continental Basketball   Association (”CBA”).  Graham was a talented player but never had   the discipline to make it in the NBA. He was also kicked off   the Albany team for fighting with Jackson. ’ ”   In other words, you can never change a player  —   in Jackson’s   parlance, you can’t change a leopard’s spots.   ” ”   If this seems like a rather cryptic way for Jackson to basically   say that he knew he could never make Carmelo an NBA champion,   even when he decided to give him a   clause, well, that’s   Phil Jackson for you. Not to mention the fact that this is a   ridiculous and petty way to bash your   player.  ” ”   It’s notable that Jackson hasn’t tweeted since December 27, but   chooses to now, with the trade deadline fast approaching.   Anthony’s no trade clause allows him to veto any potentially   undesirable destinations, and that makes Jackson’s job a lot more   difficult. ” ’   And while there has been chattering about a potential trade to   the Cavaliers in exchange for Kevin Love, for now that seems   highly unlike. () ’ ’   One potential reading of this tweet is that Jackson is simply   trying to annoy Anthony with the hopes that Anthony will   waive his   clause in frustration. Who knows? ’ ’   As the ancient Zen koan goes, the Knicks are an   absolute mess. ’ ’There is almost nothing to feel good about. ..’