’  ’ ’   Things are looking a bit desperate in China. ’ ”   The country has been suffering from money outflows for months     —   something that troubles Beijing because it pulls down the   value of the Chinese yuan and makes the economy harder to   manage.    But government measures to stem the outflows  —    —   still aren’t showing up in the numbers. In   January, up to  ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’’ ’  ’ ”   The government is looking in every nook and cranny to block any   way money can leave the country without its knowledge. That is   why on Wednesday the People’s Bank of China had a meeting with   the country’s top Bitcoin exchanges, to urge them to keep money   in the country. ” ’   Let that sink in. The Chinese government went after Bitcoin. ’ ’   The next day, two exchanges announced that they would no longer   allow withdrawals and the cryptocurrency crashed .  ’ ’   And of course,  is on message  —   telling people to remain calm   because the situation is not that serious, while also blaming   outside forces their trouble. ’ ’   One  said that there is ”no   need to worry,” because the overall fundamentals of the economy   are good. It also blamed the issue of falling reserves on Tibet. ’ ’   But right now reserves are important. China is using them to keep   its currency, the yuan, stable as its value has been falling. The   strong dollar is only been making that situation worse.  ’ ”   And the reserves are important in the event of an emergency. The   Chinese economy is transitioning from one based on manufacturing   and exports, to one more based on services industries like retail   and banking. That means a lot of massive, often     companies are heavily indebted and need to be downsized. There’s   a lot that could go wrong there that China could use reserves   for. ” ”   Now, China could take control of the yuan and fix its value, but   it’s clear from the media that the state wants to continue on its   path to liberalization, not take steps back. It also wants to   keep the currency stable.  ” ’   ’ ’  ’ ’Things are looking a bit desperate in China. ..’