’  ’ ”   The Republican and Democratic heads of the House Committee On   Oversight and Government Reform filed a letter on Thursday   requesting the independent government watchdog begin a review of   President Donald Trump’s counselor following her  of Ivanka Trump’s fashion line. ” ’   In a letter to the Office of Government Ethics, Reps. Jason   Chaffetz and Elijah Cummings wrote that they had ”extremely   serious concerns” that Kellyanne Conway violated federal ethics   rules when she appeared on Fox News on Thursday and explicitly   endorsed Ivanka Trump’’s fashion line, which was dropped by   Nordstrom after the retailer claimed the sales were slow. ’ ’   ”Conway’’s statements from the White House using her official   title could appear to constitute an explicit endorsement, and   advertisement for Ivanka Trump’’s personal business activities,”   the ranking members wrote. ’ ’   The letter continued: ”We request you review Conway’’s statements   and act promptly based on the basis of your findings. We also ask   you to report back to the committee with your recommendations for   disciplinary action, if warranted.” ’ ”   In a corresponding tweet, Chaffetz condemned Conway’s   endorsement: ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tWhat she did was wrong, wrong, wrong. Here is our   letter to the White House and OGE.   ’ ’   The letter permitted the OGE to review Conway’’s conduct for a   potential ethics violation and recommend a punishment, including   ”reprimand, suspension, demotion, or dismissal.” ’ ”   The letter also acknowledged that there was a likely   conflict of interest, as the president would enforce any   recommended disciplinary action. Trump himself slammed   Nordstrom on Wednesday for dropping his daughter’s   line.  ” ’   Appearing on ”Fox & Friends” on Thursday, Conway  Nordstrom’’s decision to drop Ivanka Trump’’s line. ’ ’   ”Go buy Ivanka’’s stuff, is what I would say. I hate shopping  —     I’’m going to buy stuff today,” Conway said. ’ ’   ”It’’s a wonderful line. I own some of it,” Conway added. ”I’’m   going to give a free commercial here. Go buy it today, everybody.   You can find it online.” ’ ’The Republican and Democratic heads of the. ..’