’  ’ ”   As the new head of the Justice Department, Attorney General Jeff   Sessions will have  over how the federal government   approaches marijuana under President Donald Trump’s   administration.  ” ’   Marijuana currently exists in a legal gray area at the federal   level.  ’ ’   The federal government    meaning that it considers the plant to have no acceptable medical   use and a high potential for abuse. ’ ’   In 2013, however, the Department of Justice issued the ”” which moved federal resources away   from prosecuting individuals operating legally in states that   have legalized marijuana.  ’ ”   While it remains to be seen how Trump and Sessions will handle   marijuana, some executives who spoke to Business Insider   said they are hopeful that Sessions, who has  will focus his   attention on Trump’s priorities, like overhauling immigration,   rather than picking a fight with legal marijuana industry. ” ’     ’ ’   ” ’ ’  ’ ’   Since marijuana was first legalized in Colorado and Washington in   2012, the legal marijuana industry has existed in a federal gray   area. The industry is regulated on a    basis.  ’ ”   That gray area has made the industry vulnerable to political   risk, according to Christov. Without clearly established rules or   regulations, a new administration like Trump’s c ” ”   However, marijuana advocates and policy experts say they expect   the Trump Administration, and the   Justice   Department, to respect states’ rights to legalize and regulate   marijuana without federal interference. ” ’   ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Micah Tapman, a partner and managing director at the     marijuana incubator and venture capital firm    said   that there is one ”hidden benefit” to the continuation of the   federal gray area. Until the federal government clarifies   its position, he said it’’s an opportunity for ”smaller and more   agile” companies to develop businesses on a    basis. ’ ’   ”It’’s not often that a   dollar industry is dominated   by small and   companies but that’’s exactly what’’s   happening with cannabis,” Tapman added.  ’ ’  ’ ”   In Colorado, California, and other legal marijuana states,   Sessions’ confirmation doesn’t appear to be slowing investment in   the industry. ” ’   Neil Demers, the CEO of Diego Pellicer, a network of retail   dispensaries, said that he’’s ”so confident” in the future of the   marijuana industry that his company plans to open a flagship   outlet in Denver next week. ’ ’   ” ’ ’   Morgan Paxhia, a partner at  told Business Insider that, in his view, the   percentage of investors concerned about Sessions is relatively   small when considering other reasons to get into the marijuana   industry. ’ ’   ”W ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’As the new head of the Justice Department. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’