’  ’ ’   For at least the fifth time since winning the presidency,   President Donald Trump again revived claims that widespread   voter fraud was rampant during the election he won. ’ ’ Friday that Trump insisted during a   meeting with senators that ”thousands” of people voted illegally   in New Hampshire, declaring it the reason why former Sen. Kelly   Ayotte didn’’t win reelection in the state. She was present in the   meeting to talk about Trump’’s Supreme Court nominee, Neil   Gorsuch, whose nomination effort she is spearheading in Congress. ’ ’   During the meeting, Trump also revived a moniker for Sen.   Elizabeth Warren that he” an insult aimed at a controversy involving her   heritage. ’ ’   Senior Deputy Secretary of State David M. Scanlan, head of the   Election Division,  in November there was ”no indication of   anything that widespread taking place in New Hampshire.” ’ ’   Experts and Republican lawmakers agree. Studies have found no   evidence of voter fraud, particularly at the scale Trump has   referenced. One  analyzed   1 billion ballots cast and found just 31 incidents of     voter fraud nationwide. ’ ’’ ’   After Trump claimed that thousands were ”brought in on buses” to   ”illegally” vote in New Hampshire, Politico reported, an awkward   silence followed. A bipartisan group of 10 senators attended the   meeting, which was billed by the White House as a ”listening   session” on the Supreme Court. ’ ’   While Trump won the Electoral College handily with 304 votes   to Democratic opponent Hillary Clinton’’s 227, he trailed   in the popular vote by nearly . It’’s this loss that Trump has been   publicly irked about, as he claimed in November that he ”won the   popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted   illegally.” ’ ’   Two weeks ago,  that would   establish a commission to investigate voter fraud headed by   Vice President Mike Pence. No such order has been signed,   but several Republican senators have already come out   against the idea. ’ ’   Republican Senate Majority Leader  ”totally irrelevant,”   saying it was ”time to move on.” ’ ’   Spokespeople for Democratic senators present in the meeting did   not immediately respond to requests for comment. ’ ’For at least the fifth time since winning the. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’