’  ’ ’   A former US solicitor general said this week that what will be   key to whether President Donald Trump is victorious defending his   immigration moratorium in the court system is whether the   executive order is interpreted solely based on the text of the   document. ’ ’   Charles Fried, who served as solicitor general under President   Ronald Reagan and is now a Harvard law professor, told Business   Insider that things may not bode well for Trump if the court   decides to consider statements he made along the campaign trail   about banning Muslims from entering the country. ’ ’   ”What shadows any such effort is the question whether these   executive orders have to be interpreted within the four corners   (purely on the text of the documents) . .. or whether various   statements  —   including statements by candidates, including   statements by advisers, including 3 a. m. tweets  —   whether those   bare on the constitutionality in the sense that they are   considered competent evidence of the intent of the order,” Fried   said. ’ ’   If the executive order is viewed ”within the four corners,” Fried   said he believes it ”is really pretty secure.” ’ ’   ”If you let in all this other stuff, who knows,” he said. ’ ’’ ’   In late December of 2015, Trump announced that he would seek an   indefinite ban on Muslims entering the US if he won the election.   From then on, Trump made a number of statements related to the   barring of Muslims from entering the country, at times backing   away from the severity of his initial remark. ’ ’   Following the implementation of his travel ban last month, Trump   said Christians would be given preferential treatment.   Additionally, one of his top surrogates and advisers, former New   York mayor Rudy Giuliani, told Fox News that Trump was looking   for a way to do such a Muslim ban ”legally,” and enlisted   Giuliani to help figure out exactly how to do so. Giuliani later   walked back the comment. ’ ’   At the heart of the matter is the fact that presidents have the   authority to suspend entry to groups of individuals deemed to be   detrimental to the United States, while, as the 9th Circuit Court   wrote in its Thursday decision, the First Amendment prohibits any   ”law respecting an establishment of religion” and the Equal   Protection Clause ”prohibits the government from impermissibly   discriminating among persons based on religion.” ’ ”   The states arguing against Trump’s executive order, Washington   and Minnesota, used Trump’s past statements to make the case that   it was discriminatory based upon religion. But the 9th Circuit   Court, in its ruling, did not make a determination on whether the   executive order was discriminatory. ” ’   Fried said ”there are great dangers” about bringing Trump’’s and   his advisers’’ past statements into consideration. ’ ’   ”Because candidates say all kinds of things, and this president   says all kinds of things,” the Harvard law professor explained.   ”Some of which, he contradicts himself with within the next 10   minutes. So a court might be tempted in that context to say,   ’’we’’re not going to look at any of this stuff, it’’s just the text   of the order [that will be reviewed]. ’’” ’ ’   Although he said he ”wouldn’’t go that far” and say the order was   constitutional based alone on the text of the order, Fried did   say the the ”four corners” interpretation would boost the Trump   administration’’s chances of success. ’ ’   ”I would say that it has a very much better chance,” he said. ’ ’   Reince Priebus, White House chief of staff, said Friday that the   administration would be ”fighting out this case on the merits.”   Trump has vowed to take the case to the Supreme Court. ’ ’   The White House is additionally reportedly considering retracting   and replacing the executive order with one that is altered   slightly and not under a temporary restraining order. ’ ’A former US solicitor general said this week. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’