’  ’ ’   More details are starting to emerge from the   scuffle   between Charles Oakley, security personnel, and police officers   at Madison Square Garden, and they paint a picture that   appears even uglier in nature than the video of the fight   itself. ’ ’   On Friday, New York Knicks owner  indefinitely. While it was   initially reported as a ”lifetime ban,” Dolan said there is   a chance it will eventually be lifted. ’ ”   Also on Friday, the . Their recollection of the night’s   events purports that Oakley was aggressive and rude from the   moment that he walked into the arena, that he immediately berated   security upon arriving at his seats, and that his language was   filled with insults, expletives, and   accusations. ” ’   You can read . ’ ’   The timeline of the testimony begins immediately after Oakley   entered Madison Square Garden. His group is said to have entered   an elevator that also contained a group that included New York   Jets player Muhammad Wilkerson. According to personnel, Oakley   tried to exit the elevator in an area they were not   permitted to be. ’ ’’ ’Testimony from a person described as a ”VIP   Escort”: ’ ”   A concierge described another scene in which Oakley’s group   allegedly tried to force their way to an area they were not   supposed to be in. ” ’ From the ”concierge” in the testimony: ’ ’   According to the testimony, the group was rejected from going to   the suites and eventually escorted to their seats. According to   the report, Oakley immediately started berating security and   ushers and accusing them of being racist. ’ ’ From a ”security officer”: ’ ’From a woman described as a ”Club Seat Order Taker” who   doesn’’t follow basketball, and who didn’’t know who Oakley   was: ’ ’ From a ”supervisor”: ’ ’   At this point, more security approach Oakley, according to the   testimony. This is about where  and the   scuffle breaks out. ’ ’ From a ”manager”: ’ ’ From a ”security officer”: ’ ’   Oakley was finally removed from the floor area. This is   approximately where the ESPN video ends. A ”manager” accuses   Oakley of making racially charged comments and berating police   officers. The testimony also says that Oakley rejected Phil   Jackson and a call from Michael Jordan. ’ ’ From a ”manager”: ’ ”   Oakley’s attorney did not immediately respond to a request for   comment from Business Insider. ” ’More details are starting to emerge from the. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’