’  ’ ”   The Department of Justice is weighing whether or not to appeal a   decision issued by the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals to deny   reinstating President Donald Trump’s immigration order while its   legality is established, according to multiple reports Friday. ” ”   That’s because the White House is apparently rewriting the   controversial executive order  —   which temporarily bans   immigration from six predominantly Muslim countries and   permanently from Syria  —   so that it has a better chance of   withstanding legal challenges. ” ’   Trump tweeted on Thursday night that he intends to appeal   : ”SEE YOU IN COURT,” he wrote   shortly after the judges issued their   opinion. But he   wavered on that pronouncement Friday, saying he ”very well could”   issue a ”brand new order” next week. ’ ’   Legal experts say rewriting the order is likely a much better   option for the Trump administration than sticking with the   ”extreme vetting” order in its current form, which would likely   result in more litigation. ’ ’   ”There are a variety of things the government could do to help   their case. It’’s just a matter of how much they’’re willing to   change the executive order,” said Stephen   a professor   of immigration law at Cornell University. ’ ”     said that the order’s most controversial sections  —     3( c) and the near entirety of section 5, which were the subject   of a lawsuit brought by Washington and Minnesota against the   government that ultimately resulted in the   —   would   either have to be changed significantly or removed entirely if   the administration wanted to shield itself from further   litigation. ” ’   Section 3( c) of the immigration order stipulates that ”immigrant   and nonimmigrant entry into the United States of aliens from”   Iraq, Syria, Sudan, Iran, Somalia, Libya and Yemen ”would be   detrimental to the interests of the United States,” and that   Trump would ”hereby suspend entry into the United States, as   immigrants and nonimmigrants, of such persons for 90 days from   the date of this order.” ’ ’   The original order did not list the countries specifically but   referred to those targeted in an     policy,   the Department of Homeland Security . ’ ’  ’ ’   The nationwide enforcement of Section 3( c) was restrained ”in its   entirety” last week by US District Judge James Robart, who sided   with the states’’ argument that the order caused ”significant and   ongoing harm” to ”substantial numbers of people, to the detriment   of the States.” ’ ”   When Robart asked the government lawyer, Michelle Bennett, if   there had been any terrorist attacks by people from the seven   counties listed in Trump’s order since   Bennett said she   didn’t know. ” ’   ”The answer is none,” Robart said, . ”You’’re here arguing we have to protect   from these individuals from these countries, and there’’s no   support for that.” ’ ’   Even after appealing the restraining order to the Ninth Circuit,   the government still had difficulty proving that citizens from   the seven countries posed an elevated terror risk above others. ’ ’   ”The proceedings have been moving very fast,” the Department of   Justice lawyer, August Flentje,  when she asked   whether the government had any evidence connecting the seven   nations targeted by the order to terrorism. ’ ’  ’ ’   Another option  —   rather than gutting Section 3( c) altogether  —     would be to stipulate that people from those countries have to go   through greater screening procedures to get a visa,     said. ’ ’   ”But they’’d need to outline what those new procedures are in a   revised executive order to make them comply with     requirements,” she said. ’ ’   The   clauses in the Constitution safeguard   people from arbitrary denial of life, liberty, or property   by the government outside of the sanction of law. The government   had argued before the Ninth Circuit that the TRO should apply   only to lawful permanent residents, because as it stands it   ”covers aliens who cannot assert cognizable liberty interests.” ’ ’   But the judges  that limiting the scope of the TRO, as   the government requested, would ”on its face omit aliens who are   in the United States unlawfully, and those individuals have due   process rights as well.” ’ ’   ”The government has not met its burden of showing likelihood of   success on appeal on its arguments with respect to the due   process claim,” the judges wrote. ’ ’   Critics of the order have said that the countries it targets seem   arbitrary, since it does not include countries that have posed   serious terror threats in the past, including Pakistan,   Saudi Arabia, Egypt, and the United Arab Emirates. The   immigration order cites the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks   three times as justification, but the   hijackers were from   Egypt, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, and Lebanon. ’ ’   Lyman Stone  in an article for The Federalist: ”Most   reasonable people would agree that banning people who have never   been associated with any terrorist attack in our country (say,   Bhutanese Hindus) doesn’t make much sense.” ’ ’   Litigation over the order will likely continue until the   government provides ”an adequate factual basis for singling out   these specific countries as distinct sources of risk,” Richard   Pildes, a professor of Constitutional Law at New York University,   told Business Insider in an email. ’ ’  ’ ’   Trump  that the seven countries named in the executive   order ”are the same countries previously identified by the Obama   administration as sources of terror.” The DOJ similarly claimed    to the US Court of Appeals that the listed   countries had ”a previously identified link to an increased risk   of terrorist activity.” ’ ”   Yet the Ninth Circuit judges  of Trump’s use of Obama’s policy to   justify his immigration ban. ” ’   ”Although the Government points to the fact that Congress and the   Executive identified the seven countries named in the Executive   Order as countries of concern in 2015 and 2016, the Government   has not offered any evidence or even an explanation of how the   national security concerns that justified those designations,   which triggered visa requirements, can be extrapolated to justify   an urgent need for the Executive Order to be immediately   reinstated,” the judges wrote. ’ ’   ”We cannot conclude that the Government has shown that it is   ’’absolutely clear that the allegedly wrongful behavior could not   reasonably be expected to recur,’’” they added. ’ ’   Section 5 of the immigration order  —   which stipulates a   ”realignment of the US Refugee Admissions Program for Fiscal Year   2017” and a suspension of the US Refugee Admissions Program   (USRAP) for 120 days  —   has also proved controversial. ’ ”   The nationwide enforcement of sections 5( a) 5( b) 5( c) and 5( e)    —   along with 3( c)  —   was blocked by the Seattle judge’s retraining   order, which was upheld by the Ninth Circuit on Thursday. ” ’   ”In a   scenario, in terms of their chances of winning in   court, they would not completely suspend the     program but require some kind of additional screening procedures   for refugees and start rolling those out,”   said. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Section 5( c) which bars anyone from Syria from entering the US,   would also have to go,” he added. ”Any argument they make for   keeping that in would result in the same kinds of legal   challenges presented by Section 3( c) which poses the question   of, ’’Why have people from these countries been deemed more   dangerous than others? ’’” ’ ’   Sections 5( b) and 5( e)  —   which indicate that the US will   ”prioritize refugee claims made by individuals on the basis of     persecution, provided that the religion of the   individual is a minority religion in the individual’’s country of   nationality”  —   have also been blocked, pursuant to the TRO, to   the extent that it ”purports to prioritize refugee claims of   certain religious minorities.” ’ ’   The TRO also prohibits the government from ”proceeding with any   action that prioritizes the refugee claims of certain religious   minorities.” ’ ”     organizations, such as the American Civil Liberties   Union and the Council on   Relations, had cited   the order’s prioritization of religious minorities as evidence of   discrimination in favor of Christians, who are minorities in the   seven countries that the order targets. ” ’  ’ ’   Their arguments were bolstered last month by  with the Christian Broadcasting Network,   during which he said that Syrian Christians would be given   priority when applying for refugee status. ’ ’   ”The States argue that the Executive Order violates the   Establishment and Equal Protection Clauses because it was   intended to disfavor Muslims,” the Ninth Circuit judges wrote on   Thursday. ’ ’   ”In support of this argument, the States have offered evidence of   numerous statements by the President about his intent to   implement a ’’Muslim ban’’ as well as evidence they claim suggests   that the Executive Order was intended to be that ban, including   sections 5( b) and 5( e) of the Order,” the judges continued. ’ ’   ”The States’’ claims raise serious allegations and present   significant constitutional questions . .. we reserve consideration   of these claims until the merits of this appeal have been fully   briefed.” ’ ’The Department of Justice is weighing whether. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’