’’ ’Analysts predicted that 2017 would be a for retail stores.’ ’Just a month and a half into the new year, that prophecy has proven to be true. ’ ’A wave of store closures has hit traditional retail chains, especially those with a high proportion of locations in malls.’ ’Many chains that are closing stores are also facing a very real threat of bankruptcy.’ ’Here are eight retailers that are disappearing across the US. ’ ”The women’s clothing retailer shut down ” ’’ ”Macy’s and laying off nearly 4, 000 employees, beginning in early 2017. Ultimately, the retailer plans to shut down about 100 stores, or 15% of its store base, over the next couple of years.” ’The retailer has struggled to keep up with the rise of  . In early February, the Wall Street Journal reported that ’ ’ 108 Kmart stores and 42 Sears stores by April.’ ”Sears’  has analysts speculating that the company will file for bankruptcy and some of the brand’s suppliers already cutting back on shipments. ” ’The struggling teen retailer is closing all 171 of its stores, the’ ”The closures come two years after Wet Seal closed 338 of its   storesshortly before the company filed for bankruptcy protection. At the time, Wall Street analysts said that falling foot traffic at shopping malls played a major role in Wet Seal’s death spiral.” ’The retailer is shuttering 120 locations, primarily in the US, the Star Tribune  Currently, BCBG has 570 locations worldwide, and 175 in the US. ’ ’In January, BCBG  that it would shift its focus away from    stores, and instead double down on   and selling the BCBG brand through other retailers. ’ ”In February, Women’s Wear Daily reported that the retailer is considering filing for bankruptcy, with a source telling the publication BCBG is ” ’The retailer announced in early February that it’ ”Bebe’s sales have been slumping in recent years. In the most recent quarter, the company reported that   sales dropped” ’’ ’’ ”The future of American Apparel’s stores remains unknown, following the retailer’s acquisition by ” ’’ ’’ ’’ ’Analysts predicted that 2017 would be a rough. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’