’  ’ ’   Russian President Vladimir Putin has quickly become one of the   most powerful and feared politicians in the world. ’ ”   But he’s had a long climb to the top  —   he spent years working in   Russian intelligence and local politics before becoming the   leader of the country. ” ’   And Putin could become even more relevant to the US in the coming   years. President Donald Trump has often been criticized for   cozying up to the leader of a country that is thought to work to   undermine Western democracies. ’ ”   Here’s a look at how Putin rose to power and why some Americans   fear him. ” ’   Putin was born to a   family in Leningrad in 1952.   His father is a decorated war veteran and factory worker. An only   child, Putin grew up in a Soviet   communal apartment   with two other families, as was typical at the time. ’ ’   Growing up, Putin loved spy novels and TV shows. When he was   still in school, he went to the KGB security and intelligence   agency and asked how he could join, according to the journalist   Ben Judah’’s book ”.” ’ ’   The people at KGB headquarters told him to work hard and study   law. So Putin did exactly that, at Leningrad State University,   and later spent 17 years as a   agent working in foreign   intelligence. ’ ’   It was during this time that he had an experience that some   experts have concluded to be a defining moment in his life. ’ ”   In Dresden in 1989, an anticommunist mob formed outside KGB   offices. Putin recounted that he was told the KGB couldn’t do   anything about it without orders from Moscow, and Moscow didn’t   say a word. ” ’   ”The business of ’’Moscow is silent’’  —   I got the feeling that the   country no longer existed,” Putin later said, according to   Judah’’s book. ”That it had disappeared. It was clear that the   Union was ailing. And that it had a terminal disease without a   cure  —   a paralysis of power.” ’ ’   Judah wrote, ”For Putin and his generation, those who did not   come from intellectual families, who believed what they were told   about the USSR’’s superpower success, and did not question   propaganda, or want what they did not have  —   that moment was a   defining scar.” ’ ’   As president, Putin is known for his nationalism and patriotism  —     traits that can be traced back to his youth.  that ran in The Washington Post in 2000   said he once refused to read a book by a Soviet defector because   he didn’’t ”read books by people who have betrayed the   Motherland.” ’ ’  ’ ”   By 1991, Putin had officially resigned from the KGB’s active   reserve. He was back in Leningrad, now called St. Petersburg, and   working for the city’s first democratic mayor (and his former law   professor) Anatoly Sobchak. ” ’   Putin worked mostly behind the scenes and kept a low profile. He   reportedly was ” if things needed to get done” and ”Sobchak’’s   indispensable man.” ’ ’   Judah wrote that Putin got his political technique from Sobchak,   who was known to have strong authoritarian tendencies. ’ ’   Putin was loyal to Sobchak. When Sobchak wasn’’t reelected as   mayor, the victor offered Putin a job. But Putin turned it down,   saying, ”It’’s better to be hanged for loyalty than be rewarded   for betrayal.” ’ ’   In 1996, Putin and his family relocated to Moscow. There, he   quickly climbed up the ladder and became the head of the FSB, the   agency that succeeded the KGB, in 1998. Boris Yeltsin, then the   president of Russia, named Putin to this position. ’ ’ that it was ”a job the president would have given   only to the most trusted of aides.” ’ ’   In August 1999, Yeltsin appointed Putin prime minister of Russia    —   the fifth in . In Russia, the prime minister is the      official and reports to the president. ’ ”   And then  —   seemingly out of nowhere  —   Yeltsin stepped down and   named Putin the acting president on New Year’s Eve 1999. Putin   then won the election in March. ” ’   Many people believed Yeltsin propelled Putin to the presidency to   protect himself. The war in Chechnya, in which Russian forces   were fighting secular separatists who wanted the region to be   independent, was starting to go south, and his approval ratings   were dropping. ’ ’   One of Putin’’s first moves was to pardon Yeltsin, giving him   ”immunity from criminal or administrative investigations,   including protection of his papers, residence and other   possessions from search and seizure.” ’ ’   During his first term, Putin focused primarily on domestic   affairs. He had two items on the agenda: the war with Chechnya   and the   oligarchs. ’ ”   Putin inherited Russia during a particularly complicated time.   The country was in the midst of a conflict with Chechnya  —   a   region that’s officially considered a Russian subject. ” ’   Additionally,   oligarchs were increasingly interested   in expanding their political influence. Putin recognized that the     oligarchs had the potential to be more powerful than   him, so he struck a deal with them. ’ ’   According to the Council on Foreign Relations, ”In July [2000]   Putin told the oligarchs that he would not interfere with their   businesses or renationalize state resources as long as they   stayed out of politics  —   that is, as long as they did not   challenge or criticize the president.” ’ ’   And with the Second Chechen War, Putin established his reputation   as a ”man of action.” ’ ’   In 2002, a  was seized by 40 Chechen militants, who were led by   the warlord Movsar Barayev. During the   ordeal, 129 of   the 912 hostages died. ’ ’   This was a critical moment for Putin, and many expected his   domestic approval to plummet. But his ”ruthless handling of the   siege and his refusal to negotiate with the     further shored up his reputation as a man of action.” His   approval rating was up at 83% after it was all over. ’ ’  ’ ’   In 2004, Putin was reelected for a second term. He continued to   focus on domestic affairs but drew major criticism for his   crackdown on the media. ’ ”   Anna Politkovskaya, a journalist, was murdered in her apartment   lobby in 2006 after she wrote about corruption in the Russian   army with respect to Chechnya. She was killed on Putin’s   birthday, but Putin denied any involvement, saying her  to Russia than her reporting. ” ’   Still, many in the West criticized Putin for failing to protect   the media. ’ ”   Weeks after Politkovskaya’s death, a defector from the FSB was   poisoned in London. ” ’   Despite all this, Putin seemed, overall, to be well liked. ’ ”   During his first two terms, Russia’s GDP increased 70% and   investments increased by 125%. Putin’s Russia was lucky in that   the country largely relied on oil. (Later drops in oil prices   reflect how much of a  in the country’s economy.) ” ’   In 2008, Dmitry Medvedev was elected president. A day later, he   made Putin the new prime minister. And then came the global   financial crisis. ’ ’   The Russian economy was slammed particularly hard because it   relied heavily on Western investment. ’ ”   Additionally, the crisis showed how dependent the Russian economy   is on oil and gas and how intertwined the industry was with the   country’s political economy, . ” ’   In that same year, Russia was involved in a     international conflict, the   War, with Georgia and   the regions South Ossetia and Abkhazia. ’ ’   The two regions have been trying since the 1990s to formally gain   independence  —   and Russia’’s recognition of their independence has   been condemned by Western nations. South Ossetia is still   considered to be ”,” and Georgia considers Abkhazia to be a ””   region. ’ ’  ’ ’   In 2012, Putin won his third presidential election  —   a     term. ’ ’   This election was controversial. The  was called into question,   and critics said there was . But officially, Putin got nearly 64% of the   vote. ’ ”   In March 2014, Putin caught the world’s attention when he annexed   Crimea in one of the most complicated and controversial   geopolitical moves of the year. ” ’   The ousted,   president of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovych,   sent a letter to Putin asking him to use Russia’’s military to   ”restore law and order in Ukraine.” ’ ’   The Russian Parliament granted Putin ”broad authority to use   military force in response to the political upheaval in Ukraine   that dislodged a Kremlin ally and installed a new, staunchly     government, the Ukrainian government in Kiev   threatened war if Russia sent troops further into Ukraine,”   . ’ ’   On March 2, Russia took complete control of Crimea. ’ ’   Most recently, Putin has started exploring a relationship with   China  —   mostly because Russia needs other trading partners after   the West imposed sanctions over the actions. ’ ’ that the liberal world order  —   the idea that countries   should intervene in other nations when liberal values are at risk    —   is under threat. Trump seems to share Putin’’s views about the   NATO alliance and has gone so far as to call it ”obsolete.” ’ ”   If NATO were to disintegrate, it would be a victory for Putin. He   has been expanding Russia’s power around the world, including in   the Middle East, and NATO is one obstacle that prevents him from   further extending his influence throughout eastern Europe. ” ’   And Russia in recent years has not been friendly toward the US. ’ ’     Retired Russian Lt. Gen. Evgeny Buzhinsky  last year that Russia sees the West as the belligerent     party, citing sanctions against Russia and the  from the Rio     Olympics for   and   doping as     Western aggression against Russia.   ’ ’     ”Of course there is a reaction. As far as Russia sees it, as     Putin sees it, it is   confrontation on all fronts. If     you want a confrontation, you’’ll get one,” Buzhinsky told the     BBC. ”But it won’’t be a confrontation that doesn’’t harm the     interests of the United States. You want a confrontation,     you’’ll get one everywhere.”   ’ ’  ’ ’   Many Kremlin critics  in recent years. ’ ’   One notable case was that of Alexander Litvinenko, a former KGB   agent who died in weeks after drinking a poisoned cup of tea at a   London hotel in 2006.  blamed FSB agents. ’ ’   More recently, Vladimir   a critic of the Kremlin,    because of what his wife said was ”acute   poisoning by an undefined substance.” He was also . ’ ”   Considering how tightly Putin controls his government, it’s   unlikely he would be unaware of government operations to   neutralize perceived enemies. ” ’   The New York Times noted recently that the Soviet Union  extensively to silence opponents. ’ ’   ”Political murders are again playing a prominent role in the   Kremlin’’s foreign policy, the most brutal instrument in an   expanding repertoire of intimidation tactics intended to silence   or otherwise intimidate critics at home and abroad,” The Times   reported. ’ ”   Such killings are often carried out with a level of skill that   suggests they’re unlikely to have been done by rogue hired   killers. ” ’   ”Outside of popular culture, there are no highly skilled hit men   for hire,” Mark Galeotti, a professor at New York University and   an authority on the Russian security services, told The Times.   ”If it’’s a skilled job, that means it’’s a state asset.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Putin has carefully crafted his strongman image  —   and there are   plenty of photos of him shirtless in the wilderness to prove it. ’ ’ also show this side. ’ ’   In 2013, New England Patriots owner Robert Kraft told a story   during a gala at the   in New York about how Putin   supposedly  while Kraft was visiting   Russia in 2005. ’ ’   ”I took out the ring and showed it to [Putin] and he put it on   and he goes, ’’I can kill someone with this ring,’’” . ”I put my hand out and he put it in his pocket,   and three KGB guys got around him and walked out.” ’ ”   Putin’s representatives denied the story. ” ’   Putin has also not been kind to his opponents. Aside from   accusations of sanctioning the murders of journalists and   dissidents, Putin has been known to use intimidation tactics to   shake people down. ’ ’   Mikhail Khodorkovsky, formerly one of the richest men in Russia,   who took over the energy giant Yukos in the 1990s, once gave a   presentation about corruption in Russia to Putin and some   businessmen. Afterward, the government accused Khodorkovsky and   his colleagues of tax evasion. He was later imprisoned and now   lives in exile. ’ ’   Both Putin and Trump have nationalistic bents  —   Putin strongly   promotes Russian nationalism, and Trump ran on a platform of   making America great again and putting America first. ’ ’   Trump has also directly praised Putin on several occasions. In   September, Trump said Putin ”has very strong control” over his   country, and that, while he didn’’t like the Russian system of   government, Putin has been more of a ”leader” than Barack Obama   was as US president. ’ ”   The New Republic  in September why Trump seemed so attracted to   Putin’s politics: ” ’ Elena Holodny and Alex Lockie contributed to this   report. ’ ’Russian President Vladimir Putin has quickly. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’