’  ’ ’   Congress has some questions about the price of a   drug   that just got approved in the US to treat a rare disease. ’ ’   Senator Bernie Sanders and Rep. Elijah Cummings have sent a   letter to the CEO of Marathon Pharmaceuticals, addressing the   high list price of Emflaza (known generically as deflazacort) a   drug that was first approved in the US on February 9. ’ ”   The drug was  a rare disorder affecting mostly boys in which the   body’s muscles degenerate at an early age. The drug, a kind of   steroid, is just the second to be approved for the condition. ” ”   But almost immediately, the conversation switched to the list   price of the drug, which is $89, 000 for a years’ supply. ” ”   Marathon has said that the intended net price for the drug after   rebates and discounts will be $54, 000 a   year. That’s still much more than   the  price of the medicine in other countries, where   the drug has been around for a few decades.  ” ’   ”We believe Marathon is abusing our nation’’s ”orphan drug”   program, which grants companies seven years of market exclusivity   to encourage research into new treatments for rare diseases  —   not   to provide companies like Marathon with lucrative market   exclusivity rights for drugs that have been available for   decades,” Sanders and Cummings wrote. The two also encouraged the   company to decrease the list price before the drug goes on the   market officially in March.  ’ ’   Marathon did not immediately return a request for comment on the   letter. ’ ”   This isn’t the first time the duo have asked about drug prices.   The two have been calling out everything from   to price hikes on . It’s also not the first time the two have   written to Marathon. The   company once owned   Nitropress and Isuprel, two heart drugs that have been   criticized for their .  ” ’  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’   Shkreli,  said that he ” ’ ’  ’ ”   The voucher can then be used by the company to speed up its   review time for another drug, or it can be sold to another   company that wants to   its drug by a few   months. These vouchers have been . Sanders and Cummings had   questions about that as well, as part of their overarching   question to figure out how much Marathon stands to make from   Emflaza’s approval.  ” ”   Marathon now has until February 27 to respond to the   congressmen’s questions.  ” ’Congress has some questions about the price of. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’