’  ’ ’   A group of nearly 200 prominent veterans of law enforcement   rebuked President Donald Trump’’s approach to public safety on   Monday, arguing Trump’’s ”law and order” philosophy will result in   more dangerous communities and a waste of federal resources. ’ ”   The group, Law Enforcement Leaders to Reduce Incarceration,   slammed Trump’s hardline stance on crime, which it said   emphasized arrests and incarceration while ignoring efforts to   maintain good community relations, keep offenders out of jail,   and treat the mentally ill. ” ’   ”Decades of experience have convinced us of a sobering reality,”   group   Ronal Serpas and David Brown  —   former police   chiefs in Nashville, New Orleans, and Dallas  —   wrote in a    addressed to the Trump administration.   ”Today’’s crime policies, which too often rely only on jail and   prison, are simply ineffective in preserving public safety.” ’ ’   On Monday, the group published open letters requesting meetings   with Trump and House Speaker Paul Ryan to discuss how to keep the   country safe. Other members of the law enforcement group include   current and former police commissioners and chiefs from several   major cities, including William Bratton, the former police   commissioner in New York and Boston and chief in Los   Angeles, as well as officials from Philadelphia, Baltimore,   Indianapolis, Charlotte, and Birmingham. ’ ’   The group called on Trump to back policies that would   specifically target violent crime, an apparent dig at an  the president signed last week, which the   group said only considers crime in general. ’ ’’ ’   ”Failing to direct these resources toward our most immediate and   dangerous threats risks wasting taxpayer dollars,” the officials   wrote. ’ ’   The group also pushed Trump to fight to reduce ”bloated prison   populations” with alternatives to jail time. Such   alternatives include directing mentally ill inmates toward health   facilities and expanding the use of halfway homes that offer   transitional support to inmates integrating back into   society. Better support for inmates reduces the chances of   them landing behind bars later in life, they said. ’ ’   ”We need not use arrest, conviction, and prison as the default   response for every broken law,” the officials wrote. ’ ’   Finally, the group recommended Trump invest in community   policing, wherein police forces collaborate with their   communities. The practice reduces crime and diminishes local   tensions between police and civilians, the officers wrote.  ’ ”   Not all police across the country share the group’s   views. Several police chiefs and union members prefer   Trump’s hardline rhetoric and vows to crack down on crime   nationwide, after eight years in which they perceived Barack   Obama as being soft on crime, .  ” ’A group of nearly 200 prominent veterans of law. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’