’  ’ ’   Billionaire businessman Mark Cuban hinted on Monday that he may   choose to seek the presidency in the future. ’ ’   ”We will see,” Cuban told Business Insider in an email. ’ ’   Cuban was responding to a question that stemmed from his Sunday      with President Donald Trump,  that he did not believe Cuban was ”smart enough” to   run for the nation’’s highest office. ’ ’   Cuban  three tweets to Trump, initially   writing just ”Lol.” In that string of tweets, the owner of the   NBA’’s Dallas Mavericks and star of ABC’’s ”Shark Tank” posted a   pair of emails he sent to Trump. ’ ’   One of the emails made public by Cuban contained an interesting   line regarding his potential future candidacy, which has been   speculated on for years. In it, Cuban suggested he ”may go after   that job someday and it could be against [Trump].” ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tHow soon they forget . ...  ’ ’   Cuban said early in the 2016 presidential campaign that he was   considering a future White House bid, but he later shot the idea   down several times. At the first presidential debate in late   September, Cuban said there was ”no possible way” he’’d run. ’ ’     ”There’’s just no way,”  who became a prominent backer and surrogate for     Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton. ”And put up with that     shinola show? Are you kidding me? There’’s just no way that I     would put my family through that. Just no chance.”   ’ ’     Another interesting tidbit from the Sunday exchange was that     Trump’’s tweet followed  from earlier in the     day about how his team is planning for his 2020 reelection     effort. Sources told the Post that the idea of Cuban seeking     the presidency and challenging Trump is the White House’’s     ”biggest fear” because he would have similar outsider appeal to     Republicans and independents.   ’ ’     ”He’’s not a typical candidate,” one insider told the Post. ”He     appeals to a lot of people the same way Trump did.   ’ ’     ”If you believe in the Trump revolution, you can believe a     candidate like Mark Cuban could win an election,” the source     added. ”And Mark is the kind of guy who would drop half a     billion dollars of his own money on the race.”   ’ ’     Cuban, who laid off Trump after his electoral victory, has     returned in recent weeks to hammering the president on social     media and in TV interviews. Cuban  at Trump for his implementation of     the travel ban, taking a more openly critical position than     other prominent executives.   ’ ’     ”I’’ve been crushing POTUS,” Cuban wrote in late January in a     tweet that has since been deleted. ”He has earned it.”   ’ ’Billionaire businessman Mark Cuban hinted on. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’