’  ’ ’   Top Republicans said Tuesday that it is likely Congress will   launch a probe into former National Security Adviser Michael   Flynn over his communications with Russia. ’ ’   Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell  it’’s ”highly likely” the   Senate intelligence committee will investigate the retired army   lieutenant general in the aftermath of his Monday resignation. ’ ’   ”I think the fundamental question for us is what is our   involvement in it, and who ought to look at it,” the Kentucky   Republican said. ”And the intelligence committee is already   looking at Russian involvement in our election.” ’ ’   Speaking to reporters, the   Republican senator was   blunt in his assessment of whether the Senate should investigate   Flynn. ’ ’   ”Yes,” said Sen. John Cornyn of Texas. ’ ’   He did not say, however, whether Flynn should testify before the   Senate. ’ ’   ”I think it’’s symbolic of somebody with a distinguished military   career making a bad mistake,”  said. ’ ’   Flynn resigned Monday after just three weeks on the   job.  ’ ’   Moreover, it was reported  Tuesday that the FBI   interviewed Flynn during his first days in the White House. ’ ’   Sen. Roy Blunt, a Missouri Republican who is a member of the   Senate Intelligence Committee, told a local St. Louis radio   station that an investigation into Flynn ”needs” to happen, and   lawmakers need to speak with Flynn ”very soon.” ’ ’   ”I think everybody needs that investigation to happen,” he said.   ”And the Senate Intelligence Committee, again that I serve on,   has been given the principle responsibility to look into this,   and I think that we should look into it exhaustively so that at   the end of this process, nobody wonders whether there was a stone   left unturned, and shouldn’’t reach conclusions before you have   the information that you need to have to make those conclusions.” ’ ’   ”What did he know?”  continued. ”What did he   do? And is there any reason to believe that anybody knew that and   didn’’t take the kind of action they should have taken.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Speaking to CNN Tuesday, Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina    for an investigation into   Flynn’’s correspondence with the Russian diplomat, saying he   believes Congress ”needs to be informed” of what was actually   said in the conversations. ’ ’   ”And I want to know,” Graham said, ”did Gen. Flynn do this by   himself or was he directed by somebody to do it?”  ’ ’   Sen. Bob Corker, the Tennessee Republican who chairs the Foreign   Relations Committee, spoke on multiple occasions Tuesday about   the potential investigation, telling reporters ”” for Flynn   to testify before a Senate committee. ’ ’ said the Flynn resignation is ”” of the Senate’’s   wish to answer all of the questions circulating around   Russia’’s influence     which have dogged Trump   since he pulled off his improbable November victory over   Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton. ’ ’   However, while it is illegal for unauthorized citizens of the US   to negotiate with foreign governments, White House press   secretary Sean Spicer  that no laws were broken. Spicer said the White   House reviewed Flynn’’s situation, and the national security   adviser only resigned because his trust had ”eroded” with   the president. ’ ”     Spicer’s comments jibed with prominent House     Republicans who were not vocal in their requests to see     Flynn investigated before its chamber of Congress.   ” ’     Rep. Devin Nunes, a California Republican who chairs the House     Intelligence Committee, instead focused on the stream of leaks     from government officials to outlets such as The Post and     The Times,  his committee will investigate.   ’ ’     It echoed a  in which the     president said the ”real story” was the ”many illegal     leaks.”   ’ ’     Rep. Jason Chaffetz, the Utah Republican who chairs the House     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, did not     demand an investigation into Flynn from his committee,      ”it’’s taking care of     itself.”    ’ ’     In a statement, Republican operative Kurt Bardella, who was     formerly a senior adviser and spokesperson for the House     Oversight Committee, said that if the first month of President     Barack Obama’’s administration had been anything like the first     month of Trump’’s, the committee would’’ve been launching     investigations ”at a record pace.”   ’ ’     ”When the tragedy of Benghazi unfolded and Susan Rice went on     national television and misled the American people about what     inspired the attack, Jason Chaffetz was rushing to every news     camera he could find to call for investigation,” said Bardella,     who worked for Chaffetz’’s predecessor, Rep. Darrell Issa of     California.   ’ ’     He added: ”The litany of    and legitimate     security questions that exist but have gone unanswered in the     Trump Administration are more than enough grounds for numerous     investigations and hearings . .. just as we did during the Obama     Administration.”   ’ ’Top Republicans said Tuesday that it is likely. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’