’    ’ ’   Anthony Bourdain struggled through the New York culinary world   for most of his adult life, until, at the age of 44, his memoir   ”” propelled him to stardom and he found himself a   celebrity tour guide to the world. ’ ’   Now 60, Bourdain is the   host of ”Parts Unknown” and   more successful than ever.  for ”The New Yorker   Radio Hour” podcast, Bourdain said he has a simple solution to   avoiding burnout: ”The No    Rule.” ’ ”   That is, he won’t tolerate them, regardless of the business   opportunity. ” ’   ”I’’m very fortunate,” Bourdain told Remnick. ”Absolutely everyone   I do business with I like. I always ask myself look, there’’s a   lot of money involved here but if the phone rings at 10:00 at   night, am I going to go, ’’Aw, damn. ’’ I’’m not going to do that.” ’ ’   It’’s one of the reasons he’’s been so loyal to his partners in the   production company Zero Point Zero Production, who have been with   him since his first show, ”A Cook’’s Tour,” in 2000. ’ ’’ ’   Bourdain said that the last 16 years exploring the world has   helped him decide to prioritize quality of life and his   happiness. ”Life is too short and bad things, as I found on the   road in my travels, can happen at any minute,” he said, adding   that he didn’’t want to have to be ashamed of any project he   pursues. ’ ’   Last year,  about his evolution from   a renegade misfit early in his career to disillusioned celebrity   to where he is now, a    father who’’s no longer worried   about feeding his ego. ”I work really hard to not ever think   about my place in the world,” he said. ’ ”   He explained that he’s able to appreciate his remarkable career   trajectory and, as he told the New Yorker, enjoy it. ” ’   ”I get to work with people who 10 years ago I wouldn’’t have   dreamed to have been able to work with,” he told us. ”And that’’s   a big change professionally, and it’’s something that I think   about a lot. How can I creatively have fun, do some interesting   stuff, not repeat myself?” ’ ’   It’’s ”The No    Rule” in action: ”Have fun. Play in a   creative way. I like making things.” ’ ’   You can listen to the full New Yorker podcast episode wherever   you get podcasts, . ’ ’Anthony Bourdain struggled through the New York. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’