’  ’ ’   This is the contradiction of Trumponomics. ’ ’   As  if Trump managed to get his   infrastructure spending bill through Congress, it would likely   include a ”buy American” provision. ’ ”   It’s something he has talked about over and over again. ” ’   He even added it to his executive order on the Keystone XL   pipeline, insisting the steel used in the pipeline be . ’ ’   This would make projects more expensive because American steel is   more expensive than, say, Chinese steel. ’ ’’ ’   The Obama administration actually slapped a 500% tariff on   Chinese steel, but all that did was make life harder for   manufacturers. ’ ”   But that’s not even the worst part of it. The worst part is that   the definition of what is and is not American steel is weird. ” ’   For example, a foreign government can own a steel company and the   steel can still be considered ”American made” if the company has   factories in the US. Also, according to the  which was revised in the 1980s, the steel can even be   sourced from other countries  —   it just has to be melted here. ’ ’   The problem is that US manufacturing  —   and the global supply   chain  —   have evolved beyond that. ’ ’   *Oftentimes, steel isn’’t melted anymore. Instead, manufacturers   use something called ”slab converters” to form steel that   could’’ve been acquired from anywhere. This doesn’’t meet the ”buy   American” legislative standard, and this has cost companies with   American workers and American mills. ’ ’   The US steel industry is, of course, worried about all of this,   so it’’s working to get the definition of ”buy American” changed. ’ ”   The question then is whether the Trump administration will play   ball with it on that. And there’s reason to believe that it   won’t. ” ”   Ideologically, the Trump administration’s economic goal is not to   modernize the economy; it’s to internalize it. That is to say,   the underpinning of its policy is to have more things made at   home  —   global supply chains be damned. ” ”   We know this because Trump’s trade czar, Peter Navarro, told the    exactly that: ” ’   So the Trump administration could easily throw another   requirement into this ”buy American” mix:  a company’’s global supply   chain. ’ ”   Let’s call a policy like this what it is: an onerous regulation   that could cost companies a ton of money. Wall Street has been   sending stocks higher and higher on the idea that Trump will   deregulate and lower taxes, but Navarro’s talk flies in the face   of all that and would have real consequences if the   infrastructure bill were passed. ” ’   Of course, the prospect of the passage of a $1 trillion   infrastructure bill is sort of in the air anyway. Republicans   like Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, Republican of   Kentucky, have been hating on the idea on its worst days and   paying it lip service on its best. ’ ’   ”We expect to get some kind of recommendation on an   infrastructure bill, a subject that we frequently handle on a   bipartisan basis,” he said on Friday, according to Reuters, which   framed this quote as McConnell giving ”hope” to those who want a   bill like this to pass. ’ ”   The problem is that he provided no details with that statement,   and it’s unclear what he means by it. Democrats have already   introduced a   —   if he wanted to start   somewhere in a bipartisan fashion. ” ’   Even more suspect was his use of the word ”frequently” before the   word ”bipartisan.” ’ ”   Sounds like he’s new around here or something. ” ’     ’ ”   *A previous version of this story said that steel isn’t melted in   the US anymore across the board. That’s incorrect. Some mills do   in fact still melt steel. ” ’This is the contradiction of Trumponomics. As. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’