’  ’ ’   Remember when Donald Trump promised to label China a currency   manipulator ? Whatever happened to that promise? ’ ’   A review of recent developments in the relationship between the   Trump administration and the Chinese is elucidating. ’ ”   Trump rattled China early on in his administration after taking a   phone call from the Taiwan’s president. It was never clear   whether the phone call was  or a deliberate strategy.  ” ’   However, just weeks later, Trump reassured Chinese President Xi   Jinping that the United States would  that sees Taiwan as part of   China. Why the abrupt change of heart? ’ ”   It’s worth noting that a few days after that phone call,   something else happened: China granted Trump’s business . The trademark was considered a   surprise win for Trump. ” ’   Critics have warned Trump’s business interests create an   impossible web of conflicts that could make him vulnerable to   undue influence by foreign actors. The China story corroborates   those concerns in spades. Consider this: In China   alone,  ’ ’  ’ ’   “The fact that this decision comes just days after a conversation   between President Trump and President Xi Jinping where President   Trump reaffirmed the US policy of ‘One China’ is even more   disturbing as it gives the obvious impression of a quid pro quo,”   she added. ’ ’   The issue initially fell through the cracks given the uproar over   the  which was found by   US intelligence to have successfully hacked the American   elections. ’ ’   During the presidential campaign, Trump took an extremely tough   tone on China and Mexico, accusing the two US trading partners of   stealing US jobs because of what he called “unfair” trade deals   and, in China’s case, deliberate currency undervaluation. He   warned to respond by hiking tariffs on Chinese goods to an   exorbitant 45% despite  ’ ’  ’ ’   Never mind that China has actually been struggling to prevent its   currency from falling too quickly in recent months. ’ ’   What about China’s vicious currency manipulation, which Trump   argued cost American workers millions of jobs?  ’ ’Remember when Donald Trump promised to label. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’