’  ’ ”   If you’re struggling to pay off debt, you’re not alone. The   average household with credit card debt owes $16, 061, according   to a . ” ’   And while there are many  for good, one method proves most effective:   Prioritizing accounts with smaller balances, rather than those   with higher interest rates, also known as the . ’ ”   That’s according to new . After conducting a   series of experiments in which participants simulated paying back   virtual ’debts,’ researchers concluded that the factor that made   the biggest impact on how hard participants worked wasn’t the   amount they were paying back or how much was left in the account   afterward, it was the percentage of the balance they ended up   getting rid of. ” ’   Although it makes more sense mathematically to pay down accounts   that carry the highest interest rates first, they found that it   was more motivating for participants to see small balances   disappear. ’ ’   ”Focusing on paying down the account with the smallest balance   tends to have the most powerful effect on people’’s sense of   progress  —   and therefore their motivation to continue paying down   their debts,”  Remi   Trudel, one of the HBR researchers. ’ ’   Personal finance blogger Derek Sall knows that feeling well. He   used the snowball method to pay off roughly  (including his mortgage). ’ ’   The strategy worked so well for Sall that he decided to  on his   blog,  to help others take advantage   of it. ’ ’   ”I suggest that people pay off their debts from smallest to   largest and ignore the interest rates entirely,” he . ”Sure, that 18% credit card debt might   freak you out like crazy. But if you tackle the smaller debts   with intensity like I know you want to, you’’ll get to it sooner   than you think  —   and then bust it out sooner than you ever   thought possible!” ’ ’  ’ ”   Though your debts might feel overwhelming, the spreadsheet breaks   them down into a simple payment plan. Here’s how to use it: ” ”   Here’s a look at the bottom of the spreadsheet, which reveals how   many months it will take you to pay your debt in total: ” ’  ’ ’ For a more detailed explanation of how the tool works,   . ’ ’   After you’’ve figured out how long it will take you to reach   financial freedom, Sall recommends figuring out how you can speed   the process up. ”The faster you tackle your debt snowball, the   more likely it is that you’’ll get finally get out of debt!” he   reiterates. ’ ”If you’re struggling to pay off debt, you’re. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’