’  ’ ’   Gaining acceptance into selective colleges seems harder today   than ever before. ’ ’   Acceptance rates at top schools decline almost every year, and    the competition   is at an   high. ’ ’ a New York   SAT and ACT tutor, agrees. ’ ’   ”It’’s become a little bit of an arms race,” Green told Business   Insider. ’ ”   Green experiences firsthand the lengths to which families will go   to improve their students’ scores. His $   price tag   may seem hefty, but to the families who want to see significant   improvement in test scores, it’s worth the cost. ” ’’ ’   ”My average ACT students usually goes up by around 7 points, and   on the old SAT they were going up around 420, 430 points,” he   said. On the new SAT, Green said, his students average   to     increases. ’ ’   The Columbia University grad works exclusively over Skype, and he   attracts families from all over the US. Students on average spend   about 20 to 30 hours with him. ’ ”   He acknowledged that the inching up of test scores related to   test prep may have a potentially damaging impact on students who   don’t pay for additional SAT support. ” ’   ”It creates this weird spread where there is a very small portion   of people who are extremely well prepped and the vast majority   who still aren’’t,” Green said. ”The problem of course is that   because it is graded on a scale it throws off results in a really   disproportionate and devastating way.” ’ ”   But for families who cannot afford his price  —   and he says he   will work only with families for whom his rate doesn’t cause a   financial burden  —   Green offers some hopeful advice. ” ”   Standardized test scores are not a function of your intelligence,   Green said. Instead, it’s just time and consistent effort. If you   begin working your freshman year of high school, he says, you   won’t need to cram with a   tutor in your junior year to   get a high score. ” ’   ”The trick is begin really early  —   and I recommend freshman year    —   but then keep it to 20 minutes a day,” he said. ”That’’s really   all it takes.” ’ ’Gaining acceptance into selective colleges. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’