’  ’ ’   A new version of a Trump administration travel ban will be   ”streamlined,” U. S. Secretary for Homeland Security John   Kelly said on Saturday. ’ ’   Kelly told the Munich Security Conference that the new order   would not stop green card residency holders or travelers already   on planes from entering the United States.  ’ ’   ”I would say the president is contemplating releasing a tighter,   more streamlined version,” he said. ’ ”   U. S. President Donald Trump’s initial attempt to clamp down for   security reasons on immigration from seven     countries and on refugees snarled to a halt amid a judicial   backlash and chaos at airports. ” ”   Trump’s original order, which he said was meant to head off   attacks by Islamist militants, barred people from Iran, Iraq,   Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen from entering for 90 days   and excluded all refugees for 120 days, except those from Syria,   who were banned indefinitely. ” ’     ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Kelly said that the administration had been surprised by the   ruling and would try to do better.  ’ ’   I ”will have opportunity to work (on) a rollout plan, in   particular to make sure that there’’s no one in a sense caught in   the system of moving from overseas to our airports,” Kelly said. ’ ’   Asked whether green card residency permit holders would be   allowed in, Kelly said: ”It’’s a good assumption and, as far as   the visas go, . .. if they’’re in motion from some distant land to   the United States, when they arrive they will be allowed in.” ’ ’   He promised ”a short   period to make sure that people on   the other end don’’t get on airplanes. But if they’’re on an   airplane and inbound, they’’ll be allowed to enter the country.” ’ ”   The abrupt implementation of the order last month plunged the   immigration system into chaos, sparking a wave of criticism from   the countries affected, and from Western allies and some of   America’s leading corporations, especially technology firms. ” ’   (Reporting By Shadia Nasralla; Editing by Kevin Liffey) ’ ’A new version of a Trump administration travel. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’