’   The average American household spends   —   62% of an average $56, 000 in annual   expenditures  —   on just three things: housing, transportation, and   food.  ’ ”   If you’re trying to cut costs and save money, food might be the   easiest place to start. ” ” accounts for 12. 5% or just over $7, 000 in the   average budget, of annual expenditures, . It’s an area where you can make some   pretty  whereas ” ”   One key to keeping meal costs low is cooking at home. But the BLS   data seems to indicate Americans are not very fond of cooking   meals on their own  —   or at the very least, that they don’t spend   much money on doing so.  ” ’  ’ ’   Eating out, which is typically far more expensive than cooking at   home, accounts for 43% of the annual food expenditures for the   average family  —   an obvious area to save some cash. This   category, according to the BLS, includes ”fast food,     delivery, concession stands, buffet and cafeteria, at     restaurants, and at vending machines and mobile   vendors.”  ’ ’’ ’   The biggest spending category for food eaten at home is   ”miscellaneous,” which requires some further explanation, as it   doesn’’t actually suggest much home ”cooking.” This category   appears to be comprised mostly of premade meals and snacks (think   Hot Pockets and Lean Cuisines, as well as Doritos and almonds)   though : ” ’ ”   If you throw in the   spending category  —   nonalcoholic   beverages, which presumably aren’t involved in meal preparation  —     Americans’ three largest food spending categories, roughly 60% of   their annual food budget, involve little to no actual   cooking.  ” ”   Now, since this data refers to raw spending and doesn’t indicate   anything about the number of meals this spending creates, we   can’t really draw firm conclusions about how often Americans are   cooking versus eating prepared food. Since prepared meals cost   more, they may account for more of the food budget even while   occurring less frequently. ” ’   Either way, if you want to stretch your dollars a little further,   reducing restaurant visits and increasing your   meals   is a surefire way to start. ’ ’The average American household spends most of. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’