’  ’ ’     Then   Donald Trump told members of his golf club     in Bedminster, New Jersey to “come along” to observe potential     Cabinet picks and other members of his administration as they     arrived at the club to meet with him in November.   ’ ’     In a   audio recording, published by  Saturday, Trump is heard bragging     about a packed schedule of interviews with potential government     officials to club members during a private event.   ’ ’     Trump’s club in Bedminster played host to interviews with a     variety of potential Cabinet picks in the following days,     including Mitt Romney, once in the running to be Secretary of     State, and Gen. James Mattis, now Secretary of Defense.   ’ ’     “We’re doing a lot of interviews tomorrow —   Generals, dictators,     we have everything,” Trump tells the crowd of Bedminster     members, adding later: “Tomorrow we’re here and Sunday we’re     here. We’re going to be interviewing everybody. Treasury. We’re     going to be interviewing Secretary of State. We have everybody     coming in. And we’re going to have —   And I don’t know if you     want to come around, but if you want, it’s going to be     unbelievable. It’s going to be an unbelievable day. So you     might want to come along. ”   ’ ’     At one point during his remarks, Trump seems to call out to Bob     Greifeld, then in his last months as the CEO of Nasdaq, Inc.   ’ ’     “Where is my man —   Where is Bob? Where is Bob Greifeld? Come     here,” Trump says, adding moments later: “But we were just     talking about, ‘Who are we going to pick for the SEC, who are     we going to pick for this, who are we  …    ’ and I said, ‘Boy, can     you give some recommendations?’ And he said, ‘Boy, I’d like to     do that. ’”   ’ ’     Politico reported that the leaked speech took place on Nov. 18.   ’ ’     The next day, according to pool reports, Trump met with a large     group of potential Cabinet members and other government     officials, including Betsy DeVos, now Secretary of Education;     Gen. James Mattis, now Secretary of Defense; Todd Ricketts, now     nominated to be Deputy Secretary of Commerce; Andy Puzder, who     recently withdrew his nomination to be Secretary of Labor; and     Lew Eisenberg, now Ambassador to Italy. Mitt Romney, then under     consideration to be Secretary of State, also met with Trump on     the 19th.   ’ ’     “So we’re really working tomorrow. All day long we have     meetings. Every 15, 20 minutes we have meetings with different     people that will form our government,” Trump says near the end     of his taped remarks.   ’ ’Then   Donald Trump told members. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’