’  ’ ’ The following   was exclusively provided to Business   Insider to coincide with a speech Bill Gates is giving for the   Munich Security Conference. The following is an abridged version   of his remarks. ’ ’   When I decided 20 years ago to make global health the focus of my   philanthropic work, I didn’t imagine that I’d be speaking at a   conference on international security policy. But I’m speaking   here at the Munich Security Conference because I believe our   worlds are more tightly linked than most people realize. ’ ’   War zones and other fragile state settings are the most difficult   places to eliminate epidemics. They’re also some of the most   likely places for them to begin —  as we’ve seen with Ebola in   Sierra Leone and Liberia, and with cholera in the Congo Basin and   the Horn of Africa. ’ ’   It’s also true that the next epidemic could originate on the   computer screen of a terrorist intent on using genetic   engineering to create a synthetic version of the smallpox virus .   . . or a super contagious and deadly strain of the flu. ’ ’   The point is, we ignore the link between health security and   international security at our peril. Whether it occurs by a quirk   of nature or at the hand of a terrorist, epidemiologists say a     airborne pathogen could kill more than 30 million   people in less than a year. And they say there is a reasonable   probability the world will experience such an outbreak in the   next   years. ’ ’  ’ ’   It’s hard to get your mind around a catastrophe of that scale,   but it happened not that long ago. In 1918, a particularly   virulent and deadly strain of flu killed between 50 million and   100 million people. ’ ’   You might be wondering how likely these doomsday scenarios really   are. The fact that a deadly global pandemic has not occurred in   recent history shouldn’t be mistaken for evidence that a deadly   pandemic will not occur in the future. ’ ’   And even if the next pandemic isn’t on the scale of the 1918 flu,   we would be wise to consider the social and economic turmoil that   might ensue if something like Ebola made its way into a lot of   major urban centers. ’ ’   The good news is that with advances in biotechnology, new   vaccines and drugs can help prevent epidemics from spreading out   of control. And, most of the things we need to do to protect   against a naturally occurring pandemic are the same things we   must prepare for an intentional biological attack. ’ ’   First and most importantly, we have to build an arsenal of new   weapons —  vaccines, drugs, and diagnostics. ’ ’   Vaccines can be especially important in containing epidemics. But   today, it typically takes up to 10 years to develop and license a   new vaccine. To significantly curb deaths from a     airborne pathogen, we would have to get that down considerably —  to   90 days or less. ’ ’   We took an important step last month with the launch of a new     partnership called the Coalition for Epidemic   Preparedness Innovations. The hope is that CEPI will enable the   world to produce safe, effective vaccines as quickly as new   threats emerge. ’ ’   The really big breakthrough potential is in emerging technology   platforms that leverage recent advances in genomics to   dramatically reduce the time needed to develop vaccines.   Basically, they create a delivery vehicle for synthetic genetic   material that instructs your cells to make a vaccine inside your   own body. And the great thing is that once you’ve built a vaccine   platform for one pathogen, you can use it again for other   pathogens —  which means we could also apply it to other      diseases like HIV, malaria, and tuberculosis. ’ ’   Of course, the preventive capacity of a vaccine won’t help if a   pathogen has already spread out of control. Because epidemics can   quickly take root in the places least equipped to fight them, we   also need to improve surveillance. ’ ’   That starts with strengthening basic public health systems in the   most vulnerable countries. We also have to ensure that every   country is conducting routine surveillance to gather and verify   disease outbreak intelligence. ’ ’  ’ ’   And we must ensure that countries share information in a timely   way, and that there are adequate laboratory resources to identify   and monitor suspect pathogens. ’ ’   The third thing we need to do is prepare for epidemics the way   the military prepares for war. This includes germ games and other   preparedness exercises so we can better understand how diseases   will spread, how people will respond in a panic, and how to deal   with things like overloaded highways and communications systems. ’ ’   We also need trained medical personnel ready to contain an   epidemic quickly, and better coordination with the military to   help with logistics and to secure areas. ’ ’   It is encouraging that global alliances like the G7 and the G20   are beginning to focus on pandemic preparedness, and that leaders   like Chancellor Merkel and Prime Minister Solberg are championing   health security. ’ ’   But there isn’t enough money to help the poorest countries with   epidemic preparation. The irony is that the cost of ensuring   adequate pandemic preparedness worldwide is estimated at $3. 4   billion a year —  yet the projected annual loss from a pandemic   could run as high as $570 billion. ’ ’  ’ ’   When I was a kid, there was really only one existential threat   the world faced. The threat of a nuclear war. By the late 1990s,   most reasonable people had come to accept that climate changed   represented another major threat to humankind. ’ ’   I view the threat of deadly pandemics right up there with nuclear   war and climate change. Innovation, cooperation, and careful   planning can dramatically mitigate the risks presented by each of   these threats. ’ ’   I’m optimistic that a decade from now, we can be much better   prepared for a lethal epidemic —  if we’re willing to put a fraction   of what we spend on defense budgets and new weapons systems into   epidemic readiness. ’ ’   When the next pandemic strikes, it could be   another catastrophe in the annals of the human race. Or it   could be something else altogether. An extraordinary triumph   of human will. A moment when we prove yet again that,   together, we are capable of taking on the world’s biggest   challenges to create a safer, healthier, more stable world. ’ ’The following   was exclusively provided to. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’