’  ’ ”   President Donald Trump’s baffling remark about Sweden on Saturday   was apparently based on a Fox News segment suggesting a security   threat in the European country, Trump revealed on Twitter. ” ’   ”My statement as to what’’s happening in Sweden was in reference   to a story that was broadcast on @FoxNews concerning immigrants   & Sweden,”  on Sunday. ’ ”   Trump’s original comments, made at a   rally in   Melbourne, Florida, seemed to suggest a security incident   involving immigrants in Sweden on Friday on par with terrorist   attacks in Germany and France. ” ’   ”You look at what’’s happening in Germany. You look at what’’s   happening last night in Sweden. Sweden! Who would believe   this? Sweden, they took in large numbers, they are having   problems like they never thought possible,” Trump said at the   rally. ’ ’   ”You look at what’’s happening Brussels, you look at what’’s   happening all over the world. Take a look at Nice, take a look at   Paris,” he continued. ’ ’ ’ ’Trump, discussing terror, seamlessly mentions incident ”last night in Sweden”. There was NO ”incident” in Sweden last night. ’ ”   The allegation sent pundits and political observers   scrambling to find evidence of any such incident in Sweden  —   and   they came up empty. Swedish foreign ministry spokeswoman   Former Swedish Prime Minister Carl   Bildt even chimed in, mocking Trump’s dubious claim on Twitter. ” ’   ”Sweden? Terror attack? What has he been smoking? Questions   abound,” . ’ ’   The Fox News segment Trump was referring to was an interview   between host Tucker Carlson and documentarian and media   personality Ami Horowitz that aired Friday night. Horowitz    from a film documenting alleged violence committed   by refugees in Sweden, and the segment went on extensively about   an alleged crime surge in Sweden and its links to immigrants. ’ ’   In fact, a  found crime rates in Sweden have stayed   relatively stable over the past decade.  ’ ’ ’ ’   The president’’s comments drew immediate comparisons to a gaffe   committed earlier this month by Trump surrogate Kellyanne   Conway, who referenced the fictional ”Bowling Green   Massacre” as justification for Trump’’s controversial immigration   order in interviews . ’ ’   White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer similarly blundered this   month when he referred multiple times to a terrorist attack in   Atlanta that never happened. Spicer later said he ”clearly meant   Orlando,” the site of a mass nightclub shooting in June. ’ ”President Donald Trump’s baffling remark about. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’