’  ’ ’   A charter flight with five people on board has crashed into a   major retail centre on Melbourne’s outskirts. ’ ’   Witnesses say they say the plane come in fast and low before a   fireball rose into the sky. Eyewitness Matthew Coulburn told ABC   radio an “enormous” 200m fireball rose into the sky after the   plane “ ” and “took a very sharp turn into the building.   There are also reports debris landed on Tullamarine Freeway, the   city’s key northbound connection between the city and main   airport. ’ ’   The Beechcraft charter flight bound for King Island in Bass   Strait, between Victoria and Tasmania, was taking off from the   southern end of Melbourne’s Essendon airport at around 9am. ’ ’   Victoria police superintendent Mick Frewen said the plane gained   “a slight degree of altitude” and that the pilot issued a mayday   call saying there was catastrophic engine failure. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tFlight path of the aircraft. Possibly catastrophic engine failure. Whatever happened, it happened very quickly.   ’ ’   The fate of those on board and anyone inside the centre is as yet   unconfirmed. ’ ’   Victoria Police say they are trying to establish how many people   were inside the DFO shopping complex, on the airport’s perimeter. ’ ’   Essendon’s Direct Factory Outlet is visited by thousands of   shoppers every day, but does not open until 10am. ’ ’   The centre posted this statement on its Facebook page. ’ ’ ’ ’   An hour after the accident occurred firefighters are still   battling flames inside the centre, with the storage area for   Focus on Furniture and JB   still alight. ’ ’   Around 13 units and 60 firefighters have been dealing with the   blaze. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tMore than 60 firefighters have worked hard to bring the fire at DFO near  under control. Crews to remain on scene for some time  ’ ” ’t’t’tMFB’s Air Operations Unit preparing to launch RPAS (drone) to assist crews on the ground at DFO incident near .  ” ’  ’ ’   The aircraft is registered to Australian Corporate Jet Centres, a   charter company based at Essendon airport. ’ ’   The airport is about 8km from Tullamarine and was Melbourne’s   original international airport up until 1970, 13km from the city.   It has two runways and is best remembered as the site where the   Beatles touched down for their 1964 tour. Essendon Fields still   runs as a public airport for commercial,   charter   and general aviation. ’ ’   In recent years, part of the site has been developed into a   retail hub, with the DFO site built just off the runway and right   beside the tarmac. ’ ’   The Beechcraft King Air is a popular private aircraft flown by   hobby pilots and charter services all over the world. The twin   prop aircraft is known for being fast and stable, and the modern   versions have sophisticated avionics. ’ ’   King Island is a remote but popular tourism destination famed for   its beef and cheese. ’ ’   Ambulance Victoria has denied it is one of their aircraft. ’ ’   “Contrary to media reports the plane that has crashed at Essendon   is not an Ambulance Victoria aircraft,” it tweeted. ’ ’A charter flight with five people on board has. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’