’  ’ ”   MOSCOW (Reuters)   Russia’s combative ambassador to the United   Nations, Vitaly Churkin, died suddenly in New York on Monday   after being taken ill at work, the Russian Foreign Ministry said. ” ’   The ministry gave no details on the circumstances of his death   but offered condolences to his relatives and said the diplomat   had died one day before his 65th birthday. ’ ’   It declined to comment on reports that Churkin had been taken to   hospital shortly before his death. ’ ’   President Vladimir Putin was ”deeply upset” by the news and had   greatly valued Churkin’’s professionalism and diplomatic talent,   Russian news agencies quoted the Kremlin as saying. ’ ’   The New York Post quoted unnamed sources as saying Churkin had   been rushed to a Manhattan hospital from the Russian embassy   after falling ill with a cardiac condition. ’ ’   Tass news agency quoted Churkin’’s deputy Pyotr Ilyichev as   saying: ”The loss sustained by Russia is grave and irreplaceable. ’ ’   ”Ambassador Churkin remained at his work post until the last   minute. He devoted his whole life to defending the interests of   Russia and was to be found on the very front lines and in the   most stressful posts.” ’ ’   Foreign ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said on Facebook:   ”Great diplomat. Extraordinary personality. Colorful man.” ’ ’   Churkin was a pugnacious defender of Russian policy, notably its   intensive bombing of the Syrian city of Aleppo last year to crush   rebels opposed to President Bashar  .  ’ ’  ’ ”   When  . S. envoy to the United Nations, Samantha Power,   accused Syria, Russia and Iran last year of bearing   responsibility for atrocities there, Churkin said she was   forgetting the United States’ own track record in the Middle   East. ” ’   ”The weirdest speech to me was the one by the U. S. representative   who built her statement as if she is Mother Teresa herself.   Please, remember which country you represent. Please, remember   the track record of your country,” he said. ’ ’   Farhan Haq, deputy spokesman for the U. N.  ’’s   office, said: ”He has been such a regular presence here that I am   actually quite stunned. Our thoughts go to his family, to his   friends and to his government.” ’ ’   Churkin first came to prominence as foreign ministry spokesman   for the Soviet Union from 1990 until the collapse of the   superpower the following year. Despite the pressure of events, he   appeared to revel in the attention of the Western correspondents   who mobbed him at briefings, and was happy to respond to them at   length in fluent English. ’ ’   He went on to serve as deputy Russian foreign minister and   ambassador to Belgium and then to Canada, eventually moving to   the U. N. in 2006. ’ ’   (Reporting by Jack Stubbs and Ned Parker; writing by Mark   Trevelyan; editing by Gareth Jones) ’ ”MOSCOW (Reuters)   Russia’s combative. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’