”I’m not going to get into the long and illustrious history of the Chevrolet Corvette, in continuous production since the 1950s and now into its seventh generation. You can look it up.” ’Suffice it to say that we really, really like Vettes. The C7 Stingray was our . It set a whole new standard for this most American of vehicles (still bolted together with patriotic care in beautiful Bowling Green, Kentucky). ’ ”Since we got behind the wheel of the glorious Stingray with a   manual transmission, we’ve sampled the same car in a convertible version with an automatic  —   and outfitted with Apple CarPlay  —   and taken a   ride on the   Zo6, a   monster of a machine.” ”We thought we’d seen it all,  . And then an Arctic White 2017 Corvette Grand Sport Convertible paid us a brief visit. Too brief  —   we had it for only about a day and half. But we lucked out on the weather in the Northeast, before some harsh winter conditions set in. ” ’There aren’’t too many cars available right now that are this good. And there are none that are this good for a base price of about $70, 000. Ours stickered at $85, 910, and it was nicely appointed (the ”Black Suede Design Package” alone added four grand) . ’ ”Here’s what we thought:” ’Read the review  as well as our .’ ’.’ ’Read the review .’ ’This is the greatest Vette ever. True, the Z06 is   impressive, and the Stingray is wonderful. ’ ”But I grew rapidly addicted to the combo of the   the V8, and the suspension dynamics. Over and over again, I let the revs climb slowly north on the tachometer, feeding in a flow of throttle, then abruptly increasing my input. BOOM! The back end LOCKS DOWN, the front rises slightly, and you’re off like you’ve been fired from a howitzer. The power is sweet and honey smooth, but there’s so much of it.” ”And unlike with the   Z06, where it’s   impossible to get into all that oomph, with the Grand Sport you can sense it enveloping you, challenging and protecting in equal measure.” ”The handling is sharp and direct, and your sense of the road is immediate. This car feels very much like a Vette, too, with that edge of backwoods wildness that you don’t get from a Porsche or Ferrari or Lamborghini. That said, all the Z06 tech on loan means that the Grand Sport is a genuine sports car. Sure, you can haul ass in a straight line all day. But you can also carve into corners. Blissful. ” ”I’m not going to get into the long and. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’