’  ’ ”   Republicans members of Congress, away from Washington for the   Presidents Day week, are getting an earful as constituents   have come out in force to voice displeasure for some of the   party’s policy positions, particularly the plan to repeal and   replace the Affordable Care Act. ” ’   Sen. Chuck Grassley of Iowa held an event on Tuesday in which   constituents voiced concerns about losing coverage if the   law better known as Obamacare is repealed. ’ ’   ”I’’m on Obamacare. If it wasn’’t for Obamacare we wouldn’’t be able   to afford insurance,” said Chris Peterson,  ”With all due respect, sir,   you’’re the man that talked about the death panel. We’’re going to   create one big death panel in this country if people can’’t afford   insurance.” ’ ’   The remark was in regard to Grassley’’s claim when the   law passed that a provision of the law that analyzed the   economic benefit of drugs for Medicare was akin to a ”death   panel,”  ’ ’   ”Don’’t repeal Obamacare, improve it,” the constituent added. ’ ’’ ’   Sen. Tim Scott and Rep. Mark Sanford of South Carolina faced   similar questions at a   event in Mount Pleasant, South   Carolina, just outside of Charleston.  signs saying ”Save the   ACA” were posted around the meeting, and the lawmakers faced   questions about a wide range of   policies coming from President Donald Trump’’s   administration. ’ ’   The recent town halls mirror those held by other GOP   politicians earlier in the month that featured impassioned   defenses of the ACA and anger over the GOP plan to drastically   change the healthcare law. ’ ’ and  of Utah also faced questions about   their desire to repeal Obamacare. ’ ’   One town hall participant in Tennessee told Black that he needed   coverage from the ACA to ”make sure that I don’’t die.” ’ ’   The Tampa Bay Times reported that a gathering with   Republican Rep. Gus Bilirakis earlier this month was   similarly fiery, with constituent Evan Thornton   pleading with the GOP lawmaker for his life. ’ ’   ”I’’m an independent who voted for you,” Thornton said to   Bilirakis  ”Please don’’t take my life away.   Please don’’t let me die.” ’ ’   The strident defenses of the law come as public opinion has   shifted on the ACA. Recent polls  of the law than   against it, favoring slight changes rather than a large overhaul.   In fact, some of the polls have . ’ ’   Most of the concerns brought up in the town halls appear to be   related to the more than 23 million who are estimated to have   gained coverage from various provisions of the ACA. Constituents,   along with Democratic lawmakers, have    could endanger the coverage for some or all of those people. ’ ’   While  currently covered under   the law receives coverage, most Republicans have emphasized they   are targeting  ’ ’   Despite  in the House and Senate,   House Speaker Paul Ryan  that the House Republican leaders would   be introducing their version of a repeal and replacement bill   when Congress reconvenes next week. ’ ’   For his part, Trump dismissed the rash of   protests in a   Tuesday evening tweet. ’ ’   ”The   angry crowds in home districts of some Republicans   are actually, in numerous cases, planned out by liberal   activists,” he wrote. ”Sad!” ’ ’Republicans members of Congress, away from. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’