(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the  .) Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1. The battle to retake Iraq’s   city from the Islamic State has begun. We have two reporters and a photographer near the front lines as Kurdish pesh merga troops advance on villages east of Mosul. The fight could take weeks or months and involve up to 30, 000 Iraqi and Kurdish troops with American air support. Next door in Syria, the Islamic State lost a small town, Dabiq, with huge symbolic import. An Islamic prophecy identifies Dabiq as the site of an apocalyptic battle. The Islamic State has used that message in its propaganda, even naming its magazine after the town. ____ 2. Hillary Clinton, brimming with confidence and boosted by poll numbers across the United States, is beginning an ambitious assault on traditionally Republican states to further diminish support for Donald Trump. But her critics seized on newly released documents that include discussion of a possible “quid pro quo” to settle a dispute between the State Department and the F. B. I. over the classification of one of her emails. Spontaneous and relatively silent protests against Mr. Trump are emerging across the country as some voters take aim at perhaps his most prized possession: his brand name. His wife, Melania, broke her long,   silence, calling his behavior toward women “inappropriate” but insisting, “We are moving on. ” ____ 3. More than 170 countries signed a sweeping deal on Saturday to cut hydrofluorocarbons, used in   and refrigerators, which could be even more   than the Paris climate accord. And it might not have happened without the active backing of the world’s chemical companies, who are disrupting their own businesses to fight climate change. ____ 4. Rolling Stone went to court in an $8 million defamation trial. It’s the first of two lawsuits the magazine faces over a discredited 2014 article that described a brutal gang rape at the University of Virginia. The magazine, which retracted the article, is facing an associate dean who says she was smeared. The second case, filed by the fraternity whose house, above, was portrayed as the setting for the rape, seeks $25 million in damages. ____ 5. Tales of survival are emerging from Haiti, where a hurricane killed hundreds this month. In one ravaged area, villagers said they took shelter in caves  —   and will have to keep doing so until they can rebuild their homes. Until then, they’ll continue to flee to the caves when it rains. “It is our house that God created when we most needed it,” one resident said. ____ 6. To the first lady, with love. We published essays in praise of Michelle Obama from four boldfaced names: the authors Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie and Jon Meacham, the actress Rashida Jones and the activist Gloria Steinem. “Michelle Obama may have changed history in the most powerful way  —   by example,” Ms. Steinem wrote. ____ 7. The Museum of Modern Art is expanding its collection of Latin American art thanks to a donation of 102 works, including “Visible Idea,” above, by Waldemar Cordeiro. “This is a transformative gift,” the museum’s director said. ____ 8. Is there no joy in football? Penalties for ostentatious celebration of scores are up sharply this season. The New York Jets, meanwhile, had little reason to celebrate on Monday night as the Arizona Cardinals defeated them   in Phoenix. (ESPN) ____ 9. Hundreds gathered at Carnegie Hall to remember Bill Cunningham, the beloved Times street fashion photographer, who died in June at age 87. The speakers included the Vogue editor Anna Wintour and former Mayor Michael Bloomberg. It was not hard to imagine what Mr. Cunningham’s reaction would have been to the scene. He would have been on the sidewalk outside, his bike parked nearby, snapping photos of guests as they arrived. ____ 10. Finally, some Canadians, fearing the American election was depressing their neighbors to the south, took to social media to share reassuring messages about how great the United States is. They praised Americans’ contributions to music, technology, philanthropy and   …     the list goes on. The project was started by a creative agency that says it is not trying to sell anything. “Some people have tweeted that they think Justin Trudeau would win the election as a   candidate,” the agency’s head said. “But we are not giving him up. ” Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p. m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a. m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a. m. Sundays. Want to look back? Here’s Friday night’s briefing. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes. com.