’  ’ ”   It was May 2016 and Sebastian Gorka, a former editor at Breitbart   News who is now a senior official in President Donald Trump’s   White House, had been invited to speak at a Defense Intelligence   Agency conference. ” ’   Gorka was joined on a panel by two     counterterrorism and   experts  —   Georgia State   University professor Mia Bloom and Foreign Policy Research   Institute fellow Clint Watts. ’ ’   But he showed up unprepared, Bloom and Watts said, refusing to   answer the questions that had been provided to the panelists   weeks in advance. ’ ’   Bloom told Business Insider that before things got underway, the   panel organizer started to discuss which panelists would answer   which questions. Gorka, she said, refused to answer anything. ’ ’   ”Gorka stood up after me and said, ’’Well, I’’ve been invited here   under false pretenses. I couldn’’t possibly address this level of   granularity,’’” Bloom said. ”He made it sound like he had no idea   that they were going to ask us these questions.” ’ ’   Watts, a former Army officer and FBI agent, confirmed this   description of events, characterizing Gorka’’s performance as a   ”disaster.” ’ ’   ”Instead of participating in the panel the way he was supposed   to, he was kind of grandstanding,” Watts said. ”He said, ’’I’’m   going to stand up because I’’m a lecturer and I want to see the   crowd,’’ and I thought, this is    . You don’’t act like   that.” ’ ’   Bloom and Watts also said he tried to use the panel as a platform   to sell his book. ’ ’   ”He actually carried around his book and was basically trying to   sell his book to people in the crowd,” Watts said. ”It was low   class.” ’ ’   The episode encapsulates the concerns that several people in the     community have about Gorka. ’ ”   In conversations with Business Insider, several     experts questioned Gorka’s credibility in their field, saying he   is often dismissed as an outspoken conservative pundit who lacks   the chops to serve in the highest levels of the White House   advising on   policy. ” ’   Gorka is a deputy assistant to the president for the Strategic   Initiatives Group, a new White House organization that US   officials  is like a parallel National Security Council (NSC).   The organization has the power to write executive orders,   according to The Wall Street Journal. ’ ”   Gorka reports to Trump’s chief strategist, Stephen Bannon, who   first noticed Gorka through his appearances on Fox News and later   offered him a job at Breitbart,  The Washington Post. Gorka  that he also reports to Trump adviser Jared   Kushner and White House chief of staff Reince Priebus. Gorka also   advised the Trump campaign during the election. ” ’   When Business Insider asked him for comment by email, Gorka   called Bloom’’s and Watts’’ characterization of events at the 2016   panel ”fallacious” but did not dispute any specific points. He   did, however, advise Business Insider not to report on his   participation in the conference because it was a closed event. ’ ’  ’ ’   Terrorism and   experts have been going after   Gorka on Twitter for weeks. ’ ’   ”I call him the Simon Cowell of counterterrorism,” Watts told   Business Insider. ’ ’   Watts said he’’s met Gorka about a   times on panels and   conferences over the past several years and added that he’’s   ”always very negative and very controversial.” ’ ’   Michael S. Smith II, a terrorism analyst who has advised members   of Congress and White House officials, said ”no one has anything   nice to say” about Gorka. Smith said he has the level of   expertise ”one would expect from a Congressional intern.” ’ ’   ”His work is of little interest because he has never  —   not that I   can think of  —   contributed anything to the body of knowledge   which informs understandings of threats posed by the     groups of interest to him,” Smith told Business   Insider. ’ ’   Smith said a top counterterrorism official at the National   Security Council emailed Gorka on his first day at the White   House to recommend that he talk to Smith. Smith said he responded   politely to the introduction. ’ ”   Stephen Walt, a professor of international affairs at Harvard’s   Kennedy School of Government, also said he has reservations about   Gorka influencing policy in the White House. ” ’   ”Gorka does not have much of a reputation in serious academic or   policymaking circles,” Walt told Business Insider. ”He has never   published any scholarship of significance and his views on Islam   and US national security are extreme even by Washington   standards. His only real ’’qualification’’ was his prior   association with Breitbart News, which would be a demerit in any   other administration.” ’ ”   Other prominent terrorism analysts such as Will McCants of the   Brookings Institution and Hassan Hassan of the Tahrir Institute   for Middle East Policy, both of whom have authored widely read   books on the terrorist group ISIS, have questioned Gorka’s   position in the White House on Twitter recently. ” ’   ”Disdaining complexity may endear you to a certain kind of   warfighter but makes for terrible analysis & policymaking,”   McCants    on Twitter, linking to a recent  on Gorka. ’ ’   Hassan replied,    ”Gorka working with top minds like” Defense Secretary James   Mattis and National Security Adviser H. R. McMaster ”is just   weird.” ’ ’   Some in the   community have defended Gorka. ’ ”   Alberto Fernandez, a former US ambassador who led the State   Department’s Center for Strategic Counterterrorism Communications   under President Barack Obama, said he’s known Gorka for several   years. ” ’   ”He is a good choice because he has a more solid grasp of the   ideological challenge than his NSC political appointee   counterparts in the previous administration,” Fernandez told   Business Insider. ’ ’   He said much of the criticism of Gorka seems to be ”politically   motivated.” ’ ’   Some of the criticism is ”by people who would have been in a   Hillary Clinton White House or who never questioned the Obama   administration’’s own grasp of ” Fernandez said. ’ ’   But the criticism comes from both sides of the aisle, according   to Bloom. Smith, for example, says he voted for Trump. ’ ’   ”The issue for us is not the Trump part of it or the Fox News or   conservative politics,” said Bloom, who has appeared alongside   Gorka on Fox News. ”It’’s that this guy has absolutely no business   speaking about terrorism. He needs to sit down and read a few   books that he didn’’t write.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Bloom, the Georgia State University terrorism expert who was on   the DIA panel, has clashed with Gorka. ’ ’   Bloom says it started with a  during which she   appeared with Gorka. She rolled her eyes while he was being   introduced, not knowing that the cameras were already showing her    . ’ ’   She said she got several emails from Gorka the next day demanding   an apology. ’ ’   ”If you are so   that someone questions your bona   fides and you fold like a house of cards, I mean, grow up,” Bloom   said. ’ ’   Gorka confirmed that he ”requested an apology for [Bloom’’s]   markedly unprofessional behavior” on the Fox segment. He also   accused her of using ”ethnic slurs” in referring to him on social   media. ’ ’   ”Disappointing coming from someone teaching at a university,”   Gorka said in an email to Business Insider. ’ ’ ’ ”For those who missed ’s priceless response to the puffery used to introduce a  on Fox. .. Enjoy! ” ’   Bloom forwarded part of her correspondence with Gorka to Business   Insider, but was unable to recover all the emails from that   incident. ’ ’   But Gorka did attack her in a    last year, calling her ”disgusting.” ’ ’  ’ ’   The tweet linked to a 2016  about conservative commentator and former CIA   intelligence officer Buck Sexton clashing with Bloom during a   segment on CNN. Bloom has also ripped Gorka on Twitter more   recently. ’ ’   Gorka has also fought with Smith, the terrorism analyst who has   advised members of Congress and White House officials. ’ ’   In recent weeks, Smith has been going after Gorka on Twitter,   questioning his qualifications and using the hashtag   #FakeTerrorismExpert to refer to him. ’ ’   On Tuesday evening, Smith said, Gorka called him to express   concern about Smith’’s ”animus” toward him and threatened to bring   his tweets to the attention of the White House legal counsel. ’ ’   ”I’’m mostly tweeting links to news stories about him,” Smith told   Business Insider on Tuesday night, adding: ”He was planning on   bringing to the attention of the White House legal counsel my   ’’obsessiveness’’ with him, as I suppose is evidenced by my tweets   about him.” ’ ’   In an email to Business Insider on Wednesday morning, Gorka   disputed this characterization. ’ ’   ”Mr. Smith has been sending disparaging emails to [US government]   officials about me and my work and I indicated that I may have to   consult with legal staff at the [White House] about what he is   doing,” Gorka said. ”However I ended the discussion by inviting   him to meet at the [Eisenhower Executive Office Building] for a   coffee to discuss why exactly he feels the need to constantly be   tweeting about me.” ’ ’   Smith said Gorka was ”berating him” and nearly yelling on the   call. ’ ’   According to Smith, Gorka said he looks at Smith’’s Twitter feed   once or twice a day and was bothered by Smith’’s ”incessant   berating” of his ”professional acumen,” to which Smith asked,   ”Are you defeating jihad by monitoring my Twitter feed?” ’ ’   Gorka later said he wanted to know why Smith was attacking him. ’ ’   ”Put yourself in my shoes,” Gorka said on the call, according to   Smith, adding that the two had never met and that he had not   attacked Smith. ’ ’   Later, Gorka said that it was strange for Smith to question his   qualifications when the TV appearance Smith has pinned to his   Twitter feed is two years old, according to Smith. ’ ’   Gorka also referenced a tweet Smith has since deleted, in which   he posted a screenshot of the NSC official recommending that   Gorka talk to Smith. Gorka asked on the call why Smith would   publicly note his concerns about Gorka when an NSC official was   recommending that Gorka talk to him. ’ ’   The day after Smith posted the tweet, an NSC official contacted   him and asked him to delete it, Smith said. ’ ”   Smith said he has tentatively accepted Gorka’s invitation to meet   him in his office in the White House next month. ” ’   Gorka seems to have a combative attitude toward the media in   general. ’ ’   In  with the Independent Journal Review last week,   Gorka said the media ”doesn’’t listen” and that ”80% of the   reportage on the White House” is ”fallacious.” ’ ’   He also said the media has a ”demonstrably biased” attitude and   that they don’’t ”really understand what happened on Nov. 8 when   Donald Trump was elected to be president.” ’ ’   ”They haven’’t learned their lesson,” he said. ”The ball is in   their court right now.” ’ ’  ’ ”   Experts have expressed hesitancy about Gorka’s ideology. ” ’   Gorka told The Washington Post recently that he ”jettison[s]” the   view of past administrations that the terrorism problem is   ”nuanced and complicated.” He said terrorism is rooted in Islam   and portions of the Quran. ’ ’   ”Anybody who downplays the role of religious ideology . .. they   are deleting reality to fit their own world,” he told The Post. ’ ’   The Council on   Relations referred to Gorka’’s   ”Islamophobic views”  about his wife Katharine, who worked with   Trump’’s transition team for the Department of Homeland Security. ’ ’   A counterterrorism analyst in the   community,   who asked not to be identified by name over concerns of   professional reprisal, told Business Insider that Gorka was seen   as a ”figure on the fringes” with an ideology ”rooted more in     than in sound strategy and policy.” ’ ’   For instance, Gorka and others in Trump’’s circle  —   including the   president himself  —   make a point to use the term ”radical Islamic   terrorism.” Ousted National Security Adviser Michael Flynn had   similar views. ’ ”   Some experts, however, have defended Gorka’s views on terrorism. ” ’   James Carafano, a   expert at the conservative   Heritage Foundation who said he’’s known Gorka for about 15 years,   spoke to The Wall Street Journal and said Gorka likes to focus on   ”the war of ideas.” ’ ’   ”I think the notion that we can fight the ideology without   discussing and referencing the religion is kind of ridiculous,”   Carafano told The Journal. ”It’’s like combating communism without   discussing Karl Marx.” ’ ’   Gorka, like Flynn, also seems to have bought into the idea of an   ideological war between radical Islam and the West  —   the same   idea that ISIS itself promotes. ’ ’   ”Al Qaeda, ISIS, all of these groups are totalitarians  —   either   you surrender to them or they will kill you,” Gorka told The   Washington Post. ’ ’   The Post described a scene from an event Gorka spoke at in   Florida three days after the election. He told the crowd, which   had paid to see him speak, that he wanted to show them an image   he was ”not meant to show usually.” ’ ’   The photograph showed ”a dead, bloodied   man, lying   on the ground next to an   assault rifle,” according to The   Post. The audience cheered. ’ ’   ”We can win now,” Gorka said. ”We can win!” ’ ’  ’ ’   Gorka was born in England to Hungarian refugees, according to The   Journal. He holds a doctorate in political science from a   university in Budapest and has taught at the Joint Special   Operations University, the National Defense University, and the   Marine Corps University. ’ ’   Gorka was also a reserve intelligence soldier in the British Army   Reserve for a few years and taught at the George C. Marshall   Center in Germany, which educated NATO and allied military   officers, and the   College of International   Security Affairs, according to The Washington Post. ’ ’   Gorka has also led lectures and seminars for FBI agents. ’ ’   The Post described his academic credentials as ”thin,” especially   in the subject area of Islam. ’ ”   Unlike many scholars in his field, Gorka does not speak Arabic.   He’s also never lived in a   country, according to   The Post. He said he’s read the Quran, but only English   translations of the texts, which could make nuances harder to   detect. ” ’   ”You don’’t have to speak Arabic to do good work in this field,   but the people who don’’t speak Arabic realize that there are   limitations to what you can do,” Bloom said. ’ ”   Bloom also pointed to Gorka’s apparent lack of academic   credentials. Several other sources within the community of   terrorism and   experts and analysts also said   Gorka’s work is not widely cited among such professionals. ” ”   Smith portrayed Gorka’s work as not being taken seriously. ” ’   ”Terrorism researchers and analysts are largely unfamiliar with   his work because he is neither a terrorism researcher engaged in   novel research work, data collector, nor a formally trained   intelligence analyst,” Smith said. ’ ”   Gorka doesn’t seem bothered by his unconventional background. He   suggested to The Post that he writes more for people fighting   terrorism in the field than for academics in the US. ” ’   And of course the administration he’’s working for includes many   people who aren’’t part of the Washington establishment. Trump’’s   calls to ”drain the swamp” were popular with his supporters   during the election. ’ ’   ”What I care about is if somebody in the field is reading my   article,” Gorka told The Post. ”I see myself as somebody who   supports the bravest of the brave  —   the warfighter. Publish or be   damned? I’’ll be damned, thank you very much.” ’ ’It was May 2016 and Sebastian Gorka, a former. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’