’  ’ ’   Milo Yiannopoulos, the controversial   provocateur,   resigned as senior editor from Breitbart News on Tuesday amid   controversy stemming from   comments he made appearing to   condone sexual relationships between ”younger boys and older   men.” ’ ’   ”I would be wrong to allow my poor choice of words to detract   from my colleagues’’ important reporting, so today I am resigning   from Breitbart,” Yiannopoulos . ”This decision is mine alone.” ’ ”   Yiannopoulos’ resignation came after the Conservative Political   Action Conference rescinded his invitation to give the keynote   speech, which had been set for later this week, and Simon &   Schuster canceled his book deal. Several Breitbart employees were    if Yiannopoulos had been allowed   to keep his job. ” ’   ”Breitbart News has stood by me when others caved,” Yiannopoulos   said. ”They allowed me to carry conservative and libertarian   ideas to communities that would otherwise never have heard them.   They have been a significant factor in my success. I’’m grateful   for that freedom and for the friendships I forged there.” ’ ’   Yiannopoulos said in his statement that ”when your friends have   done right by you, you do right by them.” He said he wanted to   step aside so his ”colleagues at Breitbart can get back to the   great work they do.” ’ ’’ ’   A Breitbart representative said in a statement that Yiannopoulos   notified the company on Tuesday morning of his decision and that   it was accepted. ’ ’   Yiannopoulos came under fire over the weekend after a     blog posted audio of an appearance he made on the   ”Drunken Peasants” podcast. Yiannopoulos  he thought the age of consent ”is probably about   right,” but added that ”there are certainly people who are   capable of giving consent at a younger age.” ’ ’   At a Tuesday press conference, Yiannopoulos reiterated  saying he did ”say some   things on the tapes which I do not mean and do not reflect my   views.” ’ ’   ”I would like to express my disgust at adults who sexually abuse   minors,” Yiannopoulos said, adding that he was a victim of sex   abuse when he was a teenager. ’ ’   ”My experiences as a victim led me to believe I could say   anything I wanted to on this subject, no matter how outrageous,”   he said. ”But I understand that my usual blend of British   sarcasm, provocation, and gallows humor might have come across as   flippancy, a lack of care for other victims, or, worse, advocacy.   I am horrified by that impression.” ’ ’   At his press conference, Yiannopoulos said he would announce a   new ”independently funded media venture” and a new tour in the   next few weeks. He also said his book has received interest from   other publishers and will come out later this year, ”with perhaps   an additional chapter.” ’ ’   ”I started my career as a technology reporter who wrote about   politics, but I have since become something else,” he said. ”I am   a performer with millions of fans in America and beyond.” ’ ’   Yiannopoulos added: ”My full focus is now going to be on   entertaining and educating everyone  —   left, right, and otherwise.   If you want to brand or stereotype me, good luck with that.” ’ ’Milo Yiannopoulos, the controversial  . ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’