’  ’ ’   Two memos released by the Department of Homeland Security on   Tuesday  for the implementation of   two executive orders President Donald Trump signed in January. ’ ’   The memos detail the increased authority federal officials will   have to detain and deport immigrants in the US illegally. ’ ’   They also expand the pool of unauthorized immigrants subject to   ””  —   that is, removal that   bypasses court proceedings  —   and describe the resources that will   be provided to the Immigration and Customs Enforcement and   Customs and Border protection agencies in order to fulfill the   directives. ’ ’   Also within the memos are  that seem likely to infuriate  —     and may well overwhelm  —   Mexican authorities. ’ ’   Section H of the memo, titled ”Implementing the President’’s   Border Security and Immigration Enforcement Improvements   Policies,” details policies meant to streamline the deportation   process for US authorities and to better use the resources   required. ’ ’   Provisions in the Immigration and Nationality Act authorize the   Homeland Security Department ”to return aliens arriving on land   from a foreign territory contiguous to the United States, to the   territory from which they arrived, pending a formal removal   proceeding,” the memo . ’ ’   ”When aliens so apprehended do not pose a risk of a subsequent   illegal entry or attempted illegal entry, returning them to the   foreign contiguous territory from which they arrived, pending the   outcome of removal proceedings saves the Department’’s detention   and adjudication resources for other priority aliens,” it   . ’ ’  ’ ’   As detailed  which reported the contents of   the memo on Monday, these provisions would mean many immigrants   not originally from Mexico  —   Guatemalans, Honduras, Salvadorans,   or Haitians, among others  —   would still be put in the hands of   Mexican authorities, who would have to decide their next steps. ’ ”   Many of those migrants have previously been detained in the US,   where they are allowed to apply for asylum. Under Trump’s plan,   they would have to do so from Mexico, communicating with US   immigration officials by videoconference, presumably using   facilities the Mexican government would have to provide. ” ’   ”This would say if you want to make a claim for asylum or   whatever we’ll hear your case but you are going to wait in   Mexico,” a DHS official  ProPublica. ”Those are details that are   being worked out both within the department and between the US   government and the government of Mexico   …     there are elements that   still need to be worked out in detail.” ’ ’   Mike Vigil, a former chief of international operations for the US   Drug Enforcement Administration who maintains contact with   Mexican officials, said authorities there were aware the US   intended to do something like this  —   and they were not keen on   it. ’ ’  ’ ’   Mexican officials are ”of the opinion that Trump also wants to   send individuals that were born Central American through Mexico,   and they opposed that,”  . ’ ’   ”They want the United States to fly them or do whatever they have   to do, but they don’’t want them going into or through Mexico,”   said Vigil, author of ”.” ’ ’   The burden Trump  —   who has  of much of Mexican society  —     apparently wants to foist on Mexico in the form of foreign   deportees has attracted indignation from the government and   public alike. ’ ”   But the plan poses the additional risk of sapping Mexico’s   limited resources and recreating the very problems that inspired   Trump’s harsh crackdown. ” ’   ”The addition of millions of unemployed people to economies that   are already struggling would only multiply desperation and   violence in Mexico and Central America, where security, justice,   and   institutions are already overwhelmed,” Adam   Isacson, the senior associate for defense oversight at the   Washington Office on Latin America, . ’ ’   ”There would probably be chaos,” Isacson said. ”And the desire to   escape chaos would spur more migration northward.” ’ ’  ’ ’   The US has undertaken   deportations of people to   Mexico and Central America in the past. Such policies in the    migrants back to places like Honduras and El   Salvador  —   economically and politically fragile countries where   they had no real roots. They soon became fodder for gangs like   Barrio 18 and  . ’ ’   The    in recent years has been driven north by violence and instability    —   fostered in large part by those gangs  —   that is still present   in the region. Their presence in Mexico has already taxed the   resources of the government there. ’ ’   Just as those deportees were vulnerable to criminal groups in   northern Central America, waves of deportees returning to Mexico    that   have proliferated in that country, vulnerable to exploitation,   extortion, or worse. ’ ’   Despite the stricter border policies Trump has promised, many of   those deported, no matter their country of origin, would likely   look to return to the US. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”To the big wave of economic migrants would be more people   fleeing violence, along with many thousands of husbands, wives,   and parents who got separated from their loved ones by Trump’’s   deportation raids,” . ’ ’   A Homeland Security official  ProPublica that the provisions cited the   memo had been in place for years, and that the department was   just pursuing its mandate. ’ ’   But those policies, and the justification for them, are unlikely   to sway Mexican authorities. ’ ’   ”I would expect Mexico to respond with an emphatic, ’’No,’’”   Gustavo Mohar, a former senior Mexican immigration and      official,  ProPublica. ’ ’Two memos released by the Department of. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’