’  ’ ”   Democrats vying to become the next chair of the Democratic   National Committee are set to face off for the final time   before the organization’s election on Saturday. ” ”   At 10 p. m. ET on Wednesday, CNN is set to broadcast a debate   between eight candidates for the position. It’s the last of a   number of   debates and forums during   which candidates have attempted to make their case to the   447 voting DNC members about how to bring the Democratic   party out of the electoral wilderness. ” ’   The next chair needs a majority of the 447 votes to win. ’ ”   Though the candidates themselves went to lengths to maintain   civility in the months since President Donald Trump’s victory  —   a   pact was created not to campaign negatively  —   the race has been   viewed as a battle between the embattled establishment wing of   the party and the emboldened progressive left. ” ’   While almost every candidate has emphasized strengthening state   parties and broadening the vision beyond winning the presidency,   former Labor Secretary Tom Perez has garnered praise and support   from some former   figures, including his former   colleagues serving under President Barack Obama. ’ ”   Meanwhile, Rep. Keith Ellison’s longtime leftist activism and   vocal support during the 2016 Democratic primary for Sen. Bernie   Sanders has helped the Minnesota congressman rally   grassroots support. ” ’   The race appears fluid, as the campaigns have not released public   lists of supporters and multiple media outlets have reported   wildly different vote counts. ’ ”   The Hill interviewed dozens of voting members and    Wednesday morning that Ellison had 105 supporters to Perez’s 57,   while The Associated Press spoke to an independent     strategist who reported that Perez had 205 committed   voters to Ellison’s 153. ” ”   The AP reported that South Carolina Democratic party chair Jaime   Harrison had 27 committed supporters, while South Bend Indiana   Mayor Pete Buttigieg had eight, and Idaho Democratic   Party chair Sally Boynton Brown had 10. The remaining   candidates had no support in the AP’s report. ” ”   Staffers from multiple campaigns acknowledged it’s unclear   whether a candidate will have enough votes to win on the first   ballot. DNC rules stipulate that after the second round of   voting, the candidate with the fewest number of votes in   each proceeding round is automatically eliminated, consolidating   the field. ” ’   Here are the main contenders for the chair. ’ ’  ’ ”   Even before Hillary Clinton’s upset loss in the 2016 presidential   election, the Minnesota congressman  the chair post, formally announcing his   bid in   with the backing of major party figures. ” ’   Ellison scooped up endorsements from some   labor   groups, as well as progressive leaders including Sanders and Sen.   Elizabeth Warren. He also locked down vocal   like   Sens. Chuck Schumer, Amy Klobuchar, and Chris Murphy, as   well as former Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid. ’ ’   Ellison has continued to shore up his progressive bona fides   throughout the race,  to reinstate a ban on lobbyist contributions to the   DNC. ’ ’   But his bid has faced some roadblocks. ’ ’   Critics assailed the congressman over his  supporting the Nation of   Islam and its   leader. Ellison previously renounced   his ties, but  from prominent Jewish   Democrats. ’ ’   An aide told Business Insider on Thursday that Ellison feels   ”incredibly confident” about his chances, given a slew of   new notable endorsements, including New Hampshire Democratic   Party chair Raymond Buckley, who dropped out of the chair   race himself and backed Ellison.  ’ ’  ’ ’   A former labor secretary and deputy attorney general for   civil rights, Perez is hoping his executive experience,   connection with   labor and   groups, and   commitment to ”making house calls” and fighting voter suppression   laws can woo DNC voters. ’ ’   But Perez has been cast as the establishment pick, partially   because of his support from high profile former administration   officials, including former Vice President Joe Biden and former   Attorney General Eric Holder. ’ ”   Such support has proved to be a   sword, as he’s also   been forced to explain his previous support for the     Partnership, the controversial multinational trade pact that drew   strong opposition from some labor communities.  ” ”   Though Ellison’s   endorsements gave the appearance of   early momentum, Perez also appears to have strong support.  ” ”   Perez announced last week that he had 180 DNC members   supporting his bid, and a campaign staffer told Business Insider   on Thursday that he’s gained additional supporters in the past   week. ” ’   ”Going into Atlanta, I’’m proud of the broad support we’’ve   received from every corner of the country. I have spent this past   week in    conversations with DNC members and in larger   meetings with state parties discussing how we bring Democrats   together, turn our party around, and work together to defeat   Donald Trump’’s dangerous agenda,” Perez said in a statement   Thursday. ’ ’  ’ ”   Buttigieg has perhaps the most interesting resume of any   candidate seeking the chair’s position. ” ’   A      gay Naval reserve officer   who can claim the title Afghanistan veteran and Rhode Scholar,   Buttigieg announced his candidacy in January,   casting himself as a third option for Democrats hoping to   move past the fight between the left and the establishment.  ’ ’   ”The proxy characterization  —   I think it’s a little unfair to   some of the candidates, but I do think that it’s there, and I   think it’s bad for business. We can’t be seen as trapped in that   kind of fight,” Buttigieg told Business Insider in January. ’ ’   He added: ”Everyone in this race is progressive, everyone wants   to be chair, and wants to be chair in order to defend progressive   values. And so we’ve got a way to transcend that divide. We’re   always going to be a party just like the other side with people   with some diversity of opinion. But we’ve got to keep it   together.” ’ ’   Beyond his appeals to empowering local parties, Buttigieg also   highlighted his success at winning elections in the Rust Belt   among voters who abandoned the Democratic party for Trump. ’ ”   The former mayor has racked up a few prominent endorsements,   including former chairs Howard Dean and Steve Grossman and former   Maryland Gov. Martin O’Malley. He has also announced support from   a host of mayors. ” ’  ’ ’   A longtime Democratic staffer in the House of Representatives,   Harrison is also hoping to emerge as an option in later rounds of   voting if Perez and Ellison do not consolidate their leads   early on. ’ ”   The former lobbyist has touted experience as a state party   leader, saying he understands how state organizations were   neglected in the 2016 race. He told NPR that the Democratic   Party became complacent during Obama’s administration and   forgot to compete in states like his own. ” ”   Harrison has a handful of prominent public supporters, including   Rep. Tim Ryan and Rep. James Clyburn, Harrison’s former boss on   Capitol Hill. ” ’  ’ ’   A   candidate, Boynton Brown has similarly highlighted   the loss of connection between the national organization and   state parties. ’ ’   ”I really think that we have lost focus as a party. I don’’t think   we have any overarching identity message. We’’ve let the   Republicans frame the debate and frame our party for a really   long time. And, frankly, I will say that in losing the amount of   statehouses that we’’ve lost, we’’ve also allowed them to   legislate,” she  NPR in January. ’ ’   Brown  in conservative media outlets when she   said that her ”job is to tell white people when to shut   their mouths” when speaking insensitively about race.  ’ ’Democrats vying to become the next chair of the. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’