’  ’ ’   Most of us have encountered an antibiotic at some point in our   lives  —   either to treat an ear infection, combat a round of strep   throat, or treat a pesky cough.  ’ ”   But, as antibiotic resistance continues to be a growing problem   around the world, it’s often hard to make the connection between     bacteria and ourselves. ” ’   ”When you get resistance for a common infection, it’’s a big   problem, which we’’re sort of ignoring a bit like global warming,”   said Dr. Colin Broom, CEO of Nabriva Therapeutics, a biotech   developing a new antibiotic to treat community acquired bacterial   pneumonia. The drug, called lefamulin, is currently in phase   three trials, with .  ’ ”   Antibiotic resistance is expected to . And it hasn’t been   easy to get new drugs to stay ahead of the problem. Over the   years, many major pharmaceutical companies have stopped   developing new antibiotics, and those that are still in   development have . ” ’   The reason there are similarities in the responses to   climate change and antibiotic resistance is because there tends   to be a misconception about antibiotic resistance and how it   spreads, Broom said. ’ ’’ ”   It’s easy to deny that you’re involved, especially if you’re not   actively getting treated for a bacterial   infection. According to a  76% of those who   responded think that antibiotic resistance happens when a   person’s body becomes resistant to the drug. Thus, because   they’re not actively taking an antibiotic, resistance isn’t their   problem. But in reality, that’s not the case.  ” ’   ”It has nothing to do with you,” Broom said. ”It’’s the bacteria   that somebody else has had that you pick up.” ’ ”   So while you might not be experiencing a bug that’s   resistant personally, that doesn’t mean it’s not getting   worse.  ” ’   ”That I think is the disconnect,” At the national organization level there’’s a clear   recognition of the need for new antibiotics.” ’ ’   Government organizations such as the  have been warning   about the rise of antibiotic resistance, saying we’’ll soon be in   a ”post antibiotic era.”  ’ ”   But, according to Seltzer, that doesn’t necessarily translate to      operations at a hospital, where a doctor might   prescribe an antibiotic and never hear from the patient again  —     meaning the drug may have done the trick, or the patient went   somewhere else for more help. ” ’   That disconnect is similar to what happens with climate change,   where you might not encounter an example of it every day, but on   a . ’ ’Antibiotic resistance has become a growing. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’