’  ’ ’   Steve Bannon and Reince Priebus want everyone to know everything   between them is all good. ’ ”   President Donald Trump’s chief strategist and his chief of staff   sat down together in a rare joint appearance Thursday at the   Conservative Political Action Conference in Maryland, aiming to   get that point across in a   discussion. ” ’   Interviewed by the chairman of the American Conservative Union,   Matt Schlapp, the two attempted to shut down reports of discord   between them while painting the news media, as Bannon repeatedly   called it, as ”the opposition party.” ’ ’   The two gave off a friendly vibe onstage, with Priebus even   gently touching Bannon’’s arm at one point. Priebus said he loves   ”how many collars he wears,” poking fun at the chief strategist’’s   sense of style, while Bannon complimented the chief of staff on   being a hard worker and later admitted that he himself ”runs a   little hot” on occasion. ’ ’   Asked about the biggest misconceptions about the Trump White   House, Priebus, touching on reports of tension between the two   administration leaders, said ”everything” had been misreported. ’ ’’ ’   ”I think the biggest misconception is everything that you’’re   reading,” he told Schlapp. ’ ’   Bannon doubled down. He said that ”if you look at how the   opposition party portrayed” Trump during his candidacy, as     and as president, ”it’’s all wrong.” ’ ”   Since Trump’s election, several reports have painted a picture of   a split within the White House between staffers loyal to Bannon   and others loyal to Priebus. ” ”   When Michael Flynn resigned last week as national security   adviser following bombshell reports about his communications with   Russian officials regarding sanctions, major   sites   such as Breitbart News and InfoWars said Priebus was the source   of leaks coming from the White House. Bannon, who joined Trump’s   campaign in August after leading Breitbart’s news operation,   criticized Breitbart’s story on the subject. ” ’   On Thursday, Bannon said the media was weeping on November 8 when   Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton lost to Trump. ’ ’   ”If you think [the media is] going to give you your country back   without a fight, you’’re sadly mistaken,” he said, adding that the   news media is ”corporatist,” ”globalist,” and opposed to Trump’’s   ”economic nationalist” agenda. ’ ’   He said the major planks of the Trump agenda include a focus on   national security and ”sovereignty,” economic nationalism  —   which   includes trade reform  —   and a deconstruction of ”the   administrative state.” ’ ’   ”Hold us accountable for delivering what we promised,” Bannon   told the crowd. ’ ’Steve Bannon and Reince Priebus want everyone. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’