’  ’ ”   President Donald Trump has railed against Mexico since early in   his presidential campaign, criticizing the US’s southern neighbor   over matters of trade, immigration, and security. ” ’   Since his election in November, Trump has largely maintained his   hardline policies toward Mexico, with   relations ever   more strained as a result. ’ ”   The Mexican government is reportedly weighing    Trump’s aggressive posture. ” ’   But should President Enrique Peña Nieto decide to strike back   through other means, there are a number of avenues he could   pursue. ’ ”   US cooperation with Mexico on security matters has played an   important role in Mexico’s efforts to fight crime.  enacted in 2008, has provided the Mexican government   $2. 5 billion in funding, as well as training and equipment like   Black Hawk helicopters. (Those resources are thought to have   facilitated abuses as well.) ” ’   Mexico, however, has played an essential role in a number of   initiatives vital to US interests. This includes not only drug   interdiction and pursuit of   suspects, but    the significant   number of migrants from Central America who cross Mexico heading   for the US. ’ ’   Mexico is unlikely to halt its own fight against drugs and crime,   but it could reduce or halt cooperation with the US on these   programs. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Vigil stressed that friendships between Mexican and US officials   may keep cooperation alive, but slights and insults from Trump   may accumulate in the minds of Mexican security personnel until   some have little motivation to act on tips or intelligence   offered by the US. As Vigil explained: ’ ’  ’ ”   Amid Trump’s looming crackdown on illegal immigration  —     —   Mexican officials have   identified the movement of people as an issue on which to counter   the US’s hardline toward Mexico, specifically on trade. ” ’   Since 2014, the Mexican government  —     —   has stepped up its apprehension and   deportation of migrants from Central America. ’ ’   By   Mexico was  than the US.   The 153, 295 people from El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras that   Mexico stopped at its southern border in fiscal year 2016 were    over the previous   nine years. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Mexico should stop doing the United States’’ dirty work on our   southern border and stopping Central American minors or refugees   or people fleeing the violence in Central America from going to   the United States,” Casteñada, the former foreign minister,    this week. ’ ’   ”If they want to go to the United States, let them go,” he said.   ”We should just let them through.” ’ ”   Though his time in office has been short, Trump’s posture toward   Mexico has inflamed much of the country. ” ’  ’ ’   In a poll of Mexicans conducted in late January by Mexican   newspaper El Economista,  said they had a ”bad”   opinion of Trump  —   just one in 25 Mexicans said they had a ”good”   opinion of the US president. ’ ’   The personal, business, and political ties between the two   countries are many, and some people in Mexico are  on the   relationship, but Mexicans  —   among whom a sense of nationalism   endures  —   may not accept the status quo indefinitely. ’ ’   ”I think that Mexico has been a   partner to the United   States up until the present, and Mexico needs the United States,   and the United States needs Mexico,” Shirk, who directs the   Justice in Mexico program at USD, told Business Insider. ’ ’   ”But Mexico is a proud country, and at a certain point we will   lose their good faith,” Shirk said. ”Mexico has to, at some   point, I think, look out for itself.” ’ ’President Donald Trump has railed against. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’