’’ ’The Trump administration’’s  that there will be ”greater enforcement” of federal laws that outlaw the drug is already spooking investors after years of heavy interest in the business.’ ’”I think that’’s a question for the Department of Justice  —   I do believe that you’’ll see greater enforcement of it,” Sean Spicer, By Friday, publicly traded shares of   companies were tumbling and executives at recreational marijuana businesses were expressing their disappointment in Spicer’’s comments. ’ ’”This type of comment will unnerve investors and cause a slowdown in new investment dollars flowing to startups and established businesses,” Micah Tapman,  told Business Insider. It’’s threatening ”a   dollar industry that provides thousands of jobs across the majority of states in the union,” he said.’ ’’ ’Isaac Dietrich, the CEO of MassRoots, a   cannabis company said that his stock ”is going to take a beating,” but that ”it creates an opportunity for investors who believe in the   trajectory of the cannabis market.” MassRoots shares  on Friday afternoon, a day after Spicer’’s comments. ’ ”But Dietrich says that, because MassRoots is positioned as a   app, the company will benefit from the Trump Administration’s policy, which makes . ” ’’ ’”We do not believe the Trump Administration will take significant action to shut down the recreational cannabis industry in states like Colorado, where the cannabis industry employs tens of thousands of people and contributes more than $100 million in taxes annually,” MassRoots said in a statement. ’ ”Firms that do business in the recreational market, however, are disappointed with Spicer’s comments.” ’”’ ’say the government should not enforce federal marijuana laws against states that have legalized recreational and medical use, according to a recent . ’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’Jesse Alderman, an attorney at the   Foley Hoag LLP, said that Spicer’’s comments were certainly an ”unwelcome signal,” but they were also ”quite ambiguous.” Massachusetts  of marijuana, but retail sales aren’’t slated to begin until 2018. ’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ”The Trump administration’s warning to the. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’