’  ’ ’   NATIONAL HARBOR, Md.  —   The ”Stand With Rand” shirts were out   and the ”Make America Great Again” hats were in among the younger   crowd at this year’’s Conservative Political Action   Conference. ’ ’   Libertarians, who normally make up the loudest and most   vocal faction at the annual nationwide gathering of   conservatives, had a noticeably diminished presence at the 2017   political confab. ’ ’   ”I think it’’s disheartening,” said Michael Hall, a spokesperson   for Students for Liberty. ”I’’d like to see more libertarians   here.” ’ ’   In previous years, armies of supporters swarmed the conference   halls championing Sen. Rand Paul  —   and formerly Ron Paul  —   as the   future of the Republican Party. These attendees argued that an   embrace of libertarianism would usher in a wave of youth support   and rescue the GOP from assured death. ’ ”   But, after President Donald Trump’s surprise November victory,   the CPAC program conspicuously changed, underscoring   nationalistic ideals while tepidly moving away from principles of   small government that were popular among conservatives during   President Barack Obama’s eight years in office. ” ’   The ideological shift at the conference aligned with the   dominance of a new populist strain that took hold of the   Republican Party in the 2016 campaign. ’ ”   Matt Kibbe, president of Free the People, a nonprofit   organization that promotes libertarian principles, said this   year’s agenda and lineup of speakers may, in part, explain the   lack of libertarians present. ” ’   ”I was shocked when I looked at the schedule and, except for Ted   Cruz, there are no liberty Republicans on the stage,” he said.   ”There’’s no Rand Paul, obviously there’’s no Ron Paul  —   but   there’’s no Justin Amash, there’’s no Thomas Massie, there’’s no   Mike Lee.” ’ ’   ”So maybe part of the reason the liberty youth is not here is   there is no liberty on the stage,” he added. ”It’’s very much   driven by Trumpism and nationalism.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Nick Gillespie, former    of the libertarian Reason   magazine, agreed, contending that the American Conservative   Union, the organization that hosts CPAC, had ”started squeezing   out” those who believed in libertarian ideals. ’ ’   ”During the Obama years, Paul pere et fils were the only ones   offering a serous critique of mainstream Republicanism, which the   party recognizes is drifting,” he said an email. ”Trump’’s   victory, however narrow, allows the GOP regulars to go about   their business as if nothing is wrong.” ’ ’   Matt Schlapp, chairman of the ACU, denied suggestions CPAC had   abandoned libertarianism, insisting in a brief interview   that it was a ”very big and important part of the conference.” ’ ’   Asked if he sensed a smaller libertarian presence from previous   years, Schlapp replied, ”No, not at all.” ’ ’   Yet, despite his claims, Students for Liberty was perhaps the   only   youth organization advocating for   libertarian ideals at CPAC. Other groups, like Young Americans   for Liberty, chose to forego the conference this year. ’ ’   Cliff Maloney, president of YAL, said his group’’s purpose in the   past has primarily been to ”deliver a win for liberty minded   folks in the CPAC straw poll” and that with Trump in the White   House, influencing the straw poll would not achieve much. ’ ’   ”I’’m interested if it makes sense for us to be there, if the   straw poll matters,” Maloney said, pushing back against the idea   that YAL aimed to make a statement by skipping this year’’s   conference. ’ ’   Others also rejected the idea that the sizable decrease in   numbers was reflective of how popular libertarianism is more   broadly among the American people. ’ ’   ”Rand isn’’t there and we have a newly elected president who is,”   said Doug Stafford, who served as chief strategist for Paul’’s   2016 presidential bid. ”I don’’t find this at all mysterious or   any indicator of the broader fight for liberty.” ’ ’   Still, the absence of a vocal faction of libertarians left many   attendees disappointed and dismayed. Kibbe said he was ”surprised   by the lack of liberty groups,” and others who have been active   in the movement said they too were disconcerted. ’ ’   ”As someone who came into this movement through Dr. Paul’’s 2008   campaign, I’’m disappointed more of my libertarian friends aren’’t   here,” said Matthew Hurtt, a libertarian activist and former Ron     delegate at the Republican National Convention. ’ ’   He added: ”We need their voices at this event now more than   ever.” ’ ’NATIONAL HARBOR, Md.  —   The ”Stand. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’