’  ’ ”   Steve Beshear, the former governor of Kentucky, has been tapped   to deliver the Democratic party’s response to President   Donald Trump’s address to both house of Congress for one big   reason. ” ’   The move may seem odd. Beshear currently holds no elected office   after his second term expired in 2015 (Kentucky has a     limit for governors) and is not the traditional idea of   a ”rising star” in the party that typically uses the spot to   launch themselves into the national spotlight. ’ ’   So why was he selected? The choice of Beshear seems to be aimed   at one of the Democrats most important policy goals: the   preservation of the Affordable Care Act, better known as   Obamacare. ’ ”   During Beshear’s time as governor, he embraced the ACA and its   numerous reforms. The government set up Kynect, a     Obamacare exchange after the laws passing in 2010 abd expanded   Medicaid coverage for lower income people in the state. ” ’   Since then Kynect has been relatively popular. Before   the state move to a federal exchange by new Republican governor   Matt Bevin, 33% of Kentuckians approved of Kynect while 29%   disapproved a By comparison   the Affordable Care Act had a 33% approval and   47% disapproval in the same poll.  ’ ’’ ”   Additionally, between 2013 and 2016, Kentucky saw the   biggest drop in its uninsured rate. Currently, just 7. 8% of   Kentuckians don’t have health insurance, a huge drop from the   20. 4% without coverage in 2013  ” ’   This does not mean that everything was perfect, much like other   states Kentucky has problems with premiums but not as much as   other states. Despite this, the state was relatively   successful in its roll out of the ACA. ’ ’   Despite the fact that Beshear is not a current office holder, his   history with the ACA sets him apart to deliver the response   according to most senior Democrats. ’ ’   ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   The logic behind the move is also fairly clear. The repeal and   replacement of the ACA is shaping up to be the first main   legislative battle of the new Congress. ’ ’   Republicans have pushed forward on repeal, but there are   disagreements among the GOP in reguard to a replacement.   Couple the discord of Republicans with polls showing that   Obamacare is hitting its highest levels of popularity ever, and   the Democrats may sense an opening to sway the conversation. ’ ” White House Correspondent Sean Spicer   said that Trump’s speech will not go into detail on a specific   Obamacare replacement plan and the possible proposals from   Republicans are still wide ranging, so it remains to be seen how   granular Beshear’s response will be on the ACA. ” ”   Beshear, in a Facebook post about the response, said he was   excited to highlight his record as Kentucky’s governor. ” ’   ” ’ ’Steve Beshear, the former governor of Kentucky. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’