’  ’ ’   Wall Street’s nervous euphoria over an unstoppable stock rally   seems to grow with each day the market hits a new high. ’ ”   That leaves investors in a rather precarious spot as they watch   Tuesday night’s highly anticipated speech to Congress by   President Trump to Congress, which will focus on “American   renewal. ” ” ’   The postelection surge in stock prices has been predicated on the   assumption that Trump will quickly accomplish all of the     items on his agenda  —    deregulation, and infrastructure spending   in particular  —   while postponing or foregoing the agenda items   that frighten Wall Street, including the very real prospect of a   . ’ ’   This a tall order, and one that markets have given Trump a    to work on. But that window of faith is not going   to last forever. ’ ’   That makes it likely that Wall Street expectations are already   too high for the sort of detail Trump might possibly deliver in a   major address to lawmakers. A big disappointment could be in the   wings. ’ ’   Trump curiously stated this week that “nobody knew healthcare   could be this complicated. ” ’ ’   Tax reform, it turns out, is not simple either. Many previous   efforts have  and ultimately failed. ’ ’   Against that backdrop, Treasury secretary Steve Mnuchin’s   timeline of tax reform by August appears highly unrealistic. Wall   Street is broadly expecting lower corporate and individual taxes,   and some form of that is probably in the cards given Republicans’   dominance of Congress. ’ ’   However, part of the Republican proposal includes a  on imported goods. ’ ’   The pitch from the Trump team,  is that the US   dollar would appreciate enough to offset any hit to consumers   from higher prices. House Republicans favor a border tax because   it would help raise revenues to fund other tax cuts. ’ ’   So even within the party, a cohesive tax strategy has yet to   emerge. Failure to offer details on the magnitude of overall tax   reduction corporations and households can expect could rattle   financial markets that are priced for perfection. ’ ’   The president takes pride in keeping his campaign promises, and   in certain areas like immigration he’s doing that. ’ ’   Recall, however, that Trump ran on a populist,   Street   platform. Since he won, though, he has but has since surrounded   himself with Goldman Sachs executives who have convinced him that   his priority should be to revoke all the postcrisis rules aimed   at keeping the financial system  —   and the economy  —   safe. ’ ”   Taxpayers will not easily forget they were the ones  in 2008, when the nation’s financial   giants came begging for government help. ” ’   The problem is, just as passage and implementation of the 2010     legislation have taken several   years, so   will its unraveling occur slowly, haltingly, and probably   incompletely.   Barney Frank, who coauthored the   postcrisis bank rules, told CNBC on February 28 he thought the   legislation would be too difficult to undo but that the president   would likely appoint regulators who are less willing to enforce   them. ’ ’   He also said, rightly, that any attempt to dissolve the Consumer   Financial Protection Bureau would likely face serious opposition   from the public and Democrats in Congress, and therefore should   not be taken as a fait accompli. ’ ’  ’ ’   Another key driver of the market’s precipitous runup has been the   expectation of a large fiscal stimulus plan. But there is serious   reason to doubt whether the plan will ever get off the ground,   and, if it does, whether it will actually include the kind of   substantial federal spending that would provide a noticeable   boost to overall economic growth. ’ ’   As Nobel economist  recently wrote in The New York Times, “If   there’s a White House task force preparing an infrastructure   plan, it’s very well hidden. ” ’ ’   Senate Minority Leader Charles Schumer told reporters on February   27 that any effort to pass an infrastructure bill that was mostly   giveaways to the private sector rather than actual new public   investments would be a  The absence of a hard figure should   unsettle investors. ’ ’   Keep in mind that the Trump camp has already started dialing back   initial promises for an unrealistic 4% rate of growth, double the   clip of recent years.  Wall Street is already much less rosy on growth as it is:   “The consensus 2017 US GDP forecast has barely moved after the   election,” writes Deutsche Bank Economist Torsten Slok in a   research note. ’ ’   Any downgrades from the current level of about 2% would bring   into question the entire premise of a coming Trump boom,   potentially pulling the rug from market bulls before they can   make a run for it. ’ ’Wall Street’s nervous euphoria over an. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’