’  ’ ’   LONDON  —   A man from the US has taken out a giant ad in  claiming to be the rightful king of England. ’ ’   Allan V. Evans of Colorado says he is a descendant of a royal   Welsh line from the third century. ’ ’   The ad, shown below in a tweet, says Evans is ”a direct   descendant of an unbroken primogeniture line legally documented   since the 3rd century in Great Britain and registered in the   Royal College of Arms.” ’ ’   It goes on to describe generations of lineage, starting with a   claim that Evans is the descendant of Cunedda Wledig, the founder   of the Kingdom of Wales. ’ ’   Evans is giving ”legal notice” to all of his relatives, according   to the ad, and in 30 days plans to claim his ”royal historic   estate,” as well as land, assets, and titles. ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tAn American has taken out a big ad in the Times to say he’s the rightful king & intends to seize power.  ” ’   But Evans will not claim his right to the throne until the death   of Queen Elizabeth II. ’ ’   He ”shall further pursue an injustice of history by claiming by   right the throne and sovereign crown of Great Britain at   Westminster, upon whence the sad future death of Her Majesty   Queen Elizabeth II, as he will not out of greatest and most   deepest respect despose her in life for the great service and   selfless sacrifice that she and her husband HRH Prince Philip has   rendered to this great nation.” ’ ’   It goes on: ”Take heed and rejoice, all Welshman, Scots, Manx,   all Britons, and all citizens of this great nation called Great   Britain, that the light of freedom and egalitarianism shall be   promoted and promulgated, that democracy and all democratic   values will be promoted, and that Lady Britania who has   contributed so much to the culture and history of the world shall   be renewed and made great once again; for the legend was not a   myth but was indeed true, and more than a mere Tolkien story,   that the men of the West are now returning and now is the time of   the return of the King.” ’ ” a man called   Allan V. Evans from Wheat Ridge, Colorado, attempted to claim 400   acres of land in Georgia’s Twiggs County in 2012, claiming that   his ancestors had lived there. He said his evidence was destroyed   in a fire at the county courthouse in 1901. ” ’LONDON  —   A man from the US has taken out. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’