’  ’ ”   I can’t figure out what Paul Ryan thinks he’s up to on Obamacare   replacement. ” ’   The basic political problem he faces is simple: Republicans are   in agreement that Obamacare should be repealed and replaced, but   their agreement breaks down over what it should be replaced   with. ’ ’   A bill that keeps too much of Obamacare’’s spending will alienate   conservatives who believe they were sent to Washington to pass a   ”full” repeal. A bill that cuts too much makes moderate   Republicans squeamish, especially those who come from states that   depend on expanded Medicaid. ’ ”   So The Wall Street Journal  that Ryan’s plan is to steamroll   those objections: Bring a bill that comes down somewhere in the   middle to the floor, and dare members on the conservative and   moderate ends of his caucus to vote no. ” ’   Will that work? Maybe. But all you have to do is Google ”Boehner   pulls bill” to see how efforts to force unpalatable ” ”   legislation through the House   . ’ ’   Based on his past experience trying to herd the Republican   caucus, former Speaker John Boehner says  repeal and replace to happen. ’ ’   But Ryan seems to intend to try, and Republican members of the   House Energy and Commerce Committee are   —   a fact that has drawn objections not just from   Democrats who want to protect Obamacare, but also from Sen. Rand   Paul, the Republican from Kentucky, who  ’ ’   Paul joined many House Democrats on Thursday in demanding the   release of the draft bill. He brought a photocopier with him   through the halls of the Capitol complex, saying he wanted to   make copies of the bill widely available. ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’t. wasn’t allowed to see the House GOP’s Obamacare bill. Brought his own copy machine, just in case.  ” ”   The problem with Ryan’s approach is, sooner or later,   the committee has to release the bill text, at which time it   will face predictable objections from both the right and the   left. ” ”   You can see some of the likely objections from Republicans’ right   flank in  from Paul. Conservative Rep. Mark Meadows   of North Carolina   ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   In recent years, fights over ” ” legislation in the   House have tended to end with Republican leadership having to   shift bills far to the right to secure passage, which would tend   to mean greatly reducing spending and subsidies. ’ ’   Maybe, by doing that, Ryan will be able to get a bill   through the House. But what about the Senate, where the   Republican majority is narrower and the caucus is more moderate? ’ ’   Several Republican senators have expressed significant   reservations about whether the replacement plan will do enough to   protect those who depend on the Affordable Care Act. They have   been adamant about the need to have a full replacement in place   before repealing Obamacare. ’ ’   Republican Sen. Lisa Murkowski, for example, says she    as long as Alaska lawmakers want it. ’ ’  ’ ’   The discussion draft House bill that leaked last week would   likely have been unacceptable to both Paul and Murkowski    —   handing out too many subsidies for his taste, and cutting   spending on Medicaid too much for her standards. ’ ”   This makes me think it’s very unlikely that a bill that can be   rammed through the House can also pass the Senate  —   and   therefore that it is unlikely that Ryan’s strategy will lead to   enactment of legislation. ” ’   But maybe that is what Paul Ryan is up to. ’ ”   As  forcing a bill down   the throats of House Republicans only to see it die in the Senate   is not an effective strategy for repealing Obamacare. But it   could be a very effective strategy for getting conservative   voters to blame the Senate, not the House, for Republicans’   failure to repeal Obamacare. ” ’   The one thing that would lead me to change this view that   Republicans are not headed for repeal would be if Donald   Trump weighed in strongly to pressure Republicans in both   chambers to vote for a specific bill they have major   reservations about. ’ ’   Complicated legislation involving lots of tradeoffs tends to pass   when the president brings pressure to bear on his party in   Congress, as with the Medicare prescription drug benefit under   George W. Bush or the Affordable Care Act itself. ’ ’   So far, Trump has shown no inclination to do that  —   in fact,   he has warned his party against the trap of taking ownership over   problems in the health care system. He settled none of the major   internal Republican disputes over healthcare policy in his   address to Congress on Tuesday. ’ ”   Politically, he’s wise to talk a big game about healthcare while   avoiding getting his fingerprints on it too much. But it’s not a   strategy that augurs for actual repeal and replacement. ” ”I can’t figure out what Paul Ryan thinks he’s. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’