’  ’ ’   In kindergarten, most children are taught lessons they are meant   to carry through the rest of their lives. This is where they are   socialized, and become humans capable of working with other   humans. ’ ’   They learn lessons like,”treat others the way you want to be   treated;” ”don’’t bully;” and ”play nice with others.” ’ ’   The Trump trade agenda, which was published this week, violates   all of those principles in the name of creating a more prosperous   America. ’ ’   Worse yet, it erodes away at the fabric of the global   economic order. It claims that Americans on both sides of the   aisle ”rejected the way in the framework of rules governing   international trade operates.” These are incredibly complex rules   and agreements most Americans have never really considered. ’ ”   So let’s stick with the kid’s stuff.  ” ’   The White House is constantly saying that the US  —   the richest   country in the world with the largest military on the planet    —   is being treated unfairly. ’ ”   And the administration’s trade agenda makes pains to establish   the US’s ability to govern itself, and ignore trade rules set up   by the World Trade Organization (WTO) whenever it wants. ” ’   ”Americans are subject to US law  —   not WTO decisions,” it says. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”What happens to US manufacturing when Boeing can’’t sell   airplanes,” Branstetter offered, ”Or when GE can’’t sell   industrial equipment? It would be an enormous blow. .. to the part   of manufacturing that has the brightest future.” ’ ’   And yes, they can retaliate. Look at everything China alone   imports from the US (via Deutsche Bank) below: ’ ’  ’ ’   The can ”apply reciprocity” as soon as we do, and that wouldn’’t   be nice at all. ’ ”   Another big part of the trade agenda is ripping up multilateral   agreements (like NAFTA) and instead negotiating bilateral   agreements. This has largely been panned by trade experts as   expensive. Branstetter told Business Insider that it would take   decades to renegotiate the deals we’ve arranged in groups, one on   one. ” ’   ”This sort of takes the stupidity we’’ve heard up to now and   amplifies it by a factor of 2 or 3 or 10,” he said. ’ ”   Worse yet, tearing up trade deals makes the US untrustworthy.   People don’t want to do deals with people who will just tear them   up and walk away later.  ” ’   There are things we do domestically that make us untrustworthy   outside too. Last month  that the Trump   administration asked members of the Commerce Department to change   trade data to look like the US had a bigger deficit with other   countries. The Trump trade agenda rails against countries like   South Korea and China, where the US has a trade deficit. ’ ’   But as the WSJ points out, trade deficits are simply not a   measure of economic health. The US ran a trade surplus during the   Great Depression, and you all know how our economy was going at   that point. However, ideologues within the administration like   Peter Navarro, head of the  ’ ’  ’ ’In kindergarten, most children are taught. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’