’  ’ ”   President Donald Trump was outraged Friday over Attorney General   Jeff Sessions’ recusal from investigations into Russian   interference in the 2016 campaign, according to media reports. ” ’   Trump hauled his key advisors into the Oval Office on Friday   afternoon before he departed for Palm Beach, Florida, and went   ”ballistic” over Sessions’’ recusal,  citing senior White House sources. ’ ”   Sessions held a press conference the previous day to announce his   recusal, acquiescing to growing, bipartisan calls to do so   following revelations that he had not disclosed during his   confirmation process that he had met with the Russian ambassador   twice last year during Trump’s election campaign. ” ’  ’ ’   Trump was ”fuming” about the news on Friday, telling his aides   Sessions shouldn’’t have recused himself, the Washington Post’’s   Robert Costa tweeted Saturday. ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tTrump left WH in a fury on Friday, fuming about Sessions’s recusal and telling aides that Sessions shouldn’t have recused himself. ..’t’t” ’     ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tPresident remarked to staff that    should have done more to counter Sessions story, that it was ”bull,” per aides familiar’t’t’ ’     ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tA source close to Trump told me Friday, re POTUS mindset before Florida flight, “He’s in a very [expletive] bad mood today. He is a bear. ”’t’t’ ”   Trump questioned the logic of Sessions’ recusal, and emphasized   to his advisors that the entire situation had been handled   poorly, . ” ’     ’ ’   The advisors present in the meeting on Friday reportedly included   chief strategist Stephen Bannon, chief of staff Reince Priebus,   press secretary Sean Spicer, White House counsel Don McGahn,   communications director Mike Dubke, as well as senior advisor   Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump. ’ ’   After the meeting, Bannon and Priebus offered to stay behind in   Washington, rather than accompanying Trump to Florida as planned,   according to ABC News. Trump reportedly agreed they should remain   behind, and their names were removed from the   passenger manifest. ’ ’ Jeremy Berke contributed to this report. ’ ’President Donald Trump was outraged Friday over. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’