’  ’ ’   The afternoon after Trump won the presidential   election,  ’ ’  ’ ’   Three weeks later, The Liberal Prepper climbed to 1, 000   members. As of now, it has amassed nearly 2, 000. ’ ”   The group is for liberals who, following Trump’s election,   started prepping for ” ’   ”There was less of a threat of a nuclear holocaust brought out by   Obama,” Waugh tells Business Insider. ”There’s a leap into fear   now that Trump is in power.” ’ ’   In October 2016,  ’ ’  ’ ’   The Liberal Prepper page is active, with . There are photos of   vegetables stored in mason jars; tutorials for homemade gardens,   canoes, and ; information   about medical kits; a few liberal memes; numerous news   articles; and links to   gadgets like . ’ ’  ’ ’   A member named Seth posted that he has canned over a   gallon of carrots and has bought ten 3.  water storage   containers, while another woman posted that she will use $500   worth of her tax return to buy gear. ’ ”   One man, named Mannie, posted a photo of his new   kerosene heater, and asked others what they thought of   the brand. A few members liked a recent photo of   a liberal prepper’s sink, full of mangoes she plans to   store. ” ”   Stacy, an   woman who serves as a   of   The Liberal Prepper group, became interested in prepping in the   months leading up to Election Day. As a single mom of a   kindergartner, she says she now worries about her son’s   education (especially with Betsy DeVos as education   secretary) and the possibility of him learning hate rhetoric   from some of Trump’s followers. ” ’   ”I don’’t know if there are going to be changes to the   curriculumStacy, who who declined to give her last   name, tells BI. ’ ’   She has bought just a handful of supplies so far: seeds,   c ’ ’    ’ ”   The group’s members are not the only ones who began prepping in   response to Trump’s win.     ” ”   Waugh says he does not consider himself (and the liberal   prepping community at large) a part of  the largest organization of its kind in   the US. This is because he says the majority of APN’s   members    conservative (though the APN site states that it accepts   people from all political affiliations).  ” ’  ’ ’   Unlike conservative preppers, liberals tend to focus more on   skills and supplies that will provide comfort (e. g. in the form   of stoves and blankets) rather than protection (e. g. firearms)   Waugh says. However, a handful of Liberal Prepper members have   bought guns and ammunition since the election. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”With liberal preppers, we’re thinking about things that   transcend   cataclysm, every sort of disaster: tornado,   natural volcano, earthquake, the power grid failing, or having   dry storage goods on hand to prevent our family from starving,”   Waugh says. ’ ’   He is preparing for all the above, but his  ’ ’   ”If you were to ask us what cataclysm is most likely now, we’d   say some   accident that causes the dishevelment of   society,” he says. ’ ’   This spring, Waugh plans t ’ ’   ”My goal is to either prevent tyranny in America or be prepared   for it if we can,” he says. ’ ’The afternoon after Trump won the presidential. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’