’  ’ ”   Former President Barack Obama’s White House press secretary, Josh   Earnest, shot down President Donald Trump’s largely unfounded   allegation that Obama ordered wiretapping of Trump Tower phones. ” ’   In an interview on ”This Week” on Sunday, the former press   secretary said there are rules in place prohibiting a president   from personally interfering in a Department of Justice   investigation, and emphasized that Obama was ”not giving   marching orders to the FBI about how to conduct their   investigations.” ’ ’   ”This may come as a surprise to the current occupant of the Oval   Office, but the president of the United States does not have the   authority to unilaterally order the wiretapping of an American   citizen,” Earnest said. ’ ’   He continued: ”If the FBI decided to use their wiretapping   authority in the context of the counterintelligence or criminal   investigation, it would require FBI investigators, officials at   the Department of Justice going to a federal judge, and making a   case, and demonstrating probable cause to use that authority to   conduct the investigation. That is a fact.” ’ ’   Earnest also argued that the tweet was likely a distraction from   revelations that many top Trump campaign figures met with Russian   government officials during the campaign despite   previous contradicting claims. ’ ’   ”We know exactly why President Trump tweeted what he tweeted.   Because there is one page in the Trump White House crisis   management playbook. And that is simply to tweet or say something   outrageous to distract from a scandal,” Earnest said. ’ ”   But while Earnest denied Obama’s personal involvement into the   investigation into Russia’s meddling in the 2016 election, the   former White House press secretary said he did not know whether   there were any   wiretaps of the Trump campaign. ” ’   ”I don’’t know. And it’’s not because I’’m no longer in government.   The fact is, even when I was in government, I was not in a   position of being regularly briefed on an FBI criminal or   counterintelligence investigation,” Earnest said. ’ ’   He added: ”No one at the White House, including the president of   the United States, should be in a position in which they’’re   trying to influence or dictate how that investigation is being   conducted.” ’ ”   Earnest was one of several former Obama administration   officials who dismissed Trump’s allegation on Saturday. ” ’   Obama spokesman Kevin Lewis on Saturday denied the previous White   House interfered in the investigation into the 2016 election. ’ ’   ”A cardinal rule of the Obama administration was that no White   House official ever interfered with any independent investigation   led by the Department of Justice. As part of that practice,   neither President Obama nor any White House official ever ordered   surveillance on any US citizen. Any suggestion otherwise is   simply false,” Lewis said. ’ ’   Though the allegations have bewildered many congressional   Democrats and Republicans, Trump White House officials have   doubled down on the claims. ’ ”   Early on Sunday, Trump called for a congressional investigation   into whether Obama overstepped his authority investigating   Russia’s involvement in the 2016 election. ” ’   Spokesperson Sarah Huckabee Sanders  on ”This Week” that outlets like the BBC   previously found federal investigators sought warrants to   monitor Russian banks suspected of potentially steering money to   the Trump campaign  —   though the report did not include Trump’’s   wiretapping allegation. ’ ’   ”The bigger thing is  —   let’’s find out. Let’’s have an   investigation. If they’’re going to investigate Russia ties, let’’s   include this as part of it. And so that’’s what we’’re asking,”   Sanders said on Sunday. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’t.: This may ”come as some surprise” to Pres. Trump, but a president can’’t ”unilaterally order the wiretapping” of a US citizen.  ’ ’     ’ ”Former President Barack Obama’s White House. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’