’  ’ ”   ABC anchor Martha Raddatz grilled White House spokesperson Sarah   Huckabee Sanders over President Donald Trump’s largely unfounded   allegation that former President Barack Obama personally directed   law enforcement to look into the Trump campaign’s ties to Russia. ” ”   The president  that Congress include  that Obama’s White House personally   directed aspects of a corresponding law   enforcement investigation of Russian meddling in the 2016   election.  ” ’   In an exchange on ”This Week” on Sunday, Raddatz said Trump was   making ”extremely serious charges” and confronted Sanders   about Trump’’s sources, asking, ”Where is he getting this   information?” ’ ”   Sanders said outlets like the BBC previously reported that   federal investigators sought warrants to monitor Russian banks   suspected of potentially steering money to the Trump   campaign  —   though the did   not include Trump’s wiretapping allegation. ” ’   ”The bigger thing is  —   let’’s find out. Let’’s have an   investigation. If they’’re going to investigate Russia ties, let’’s   include this as part of it. And so that’’s what we’’re asking,”   Sanders said. ’ ”   Throughout the interview, Raddatz repeatedly sought answers to   the many questions inspired by Trump’s tweets, which offered   no supporting evidence for their claim. ” ’   The ABC anchor first asked if Trump was motivated to   tweet about Obama  about the subject in the     website Breitbart. Raddatz pointed out that although   Breitbart cites the New York Times as a source, the report   ”doesn’’t say anything definitive.” ’ ’   ”There is nothing equivocating about what he says. ’’I just found   out that Obama had my wires tapped. ’’ That’’s not ’’Look into   something. ’’ He says it happened,” Raddatz said. ’ ’   When Raddatz said the reports cited by Breitbart   included anonymous sources  —   a reporting practice Trump   has repeatedly decried  —   Sanders dismissed the point, instead   claiming that if the reports were true, the wiretaps would   be the ”greatest overreach and the greatest abuse of power that I   think we have ever seen and a huge attack on democracy itself.” ’ ”   The ABC anchor repeatedly attempted to understand the legal   steps necessary for federal investigators to bug Trump’s phone. ” ’   ”If there was an order, there would have to be probable cause   shown before it was granted, evidence of wrongdoing. So, isn’’t   the president saying this indeed happen confirming that the   investigation had enough evidence to get a FISA order?” Raddatz   asked. ’ ’   ”I’’m not sure if they can create wrongdoing. They’’ve been trying   to make the case for it. The FBI says that this is BS, the House   intelligence chair has said that there is no evidence of it. But   I don’’t know that that would indicate that intelligence services   wouldn’’t have attempted to see if there was something at that   point in October,” Sanders replied. ’ ’   Raddatz then said that if the claim was true, Trump may have   been disclosing classified information. ’ ’   ”A FISA court order wiretap is highly classified   information. Why is it acceptable for the president to tweet   something like that out?” Raddatz asked. ’ ’   ”I don’’t think he’’s tweeting out classified information. He’’s   talking about could this have happened? Did this happen?” Sanders   replied. ’ ’  ’ ’   As the conversation appeared to wind down, Raddatz pressed   yet again to present clear evidence that proved Obama wiretapped   Trump. ’ ’   ”You keep saying, if, if, if. The president of the United States   said it was a fact. He didn’’t say I read a story in Breitbart or   ’’The New York Times’’ or wherever else. He said, just found out   that Obama had my wires tapped in Trump Tower. That’’s not an if,”   Raddatz said. ’ ’   ”I will let the president speak for himself,” Sanders replied. ’ ’   ”You’’re his spokesperson,” Raddatz said ’ ’   ”And I’’m speaking about it right now,” Sanders said. ’ ’   ”But you’’re backing off of it. You’’re backing off of it,” Raddatz   said. ’ ”   The interview came just minutes after Trump  for a congressional investigation into whether Obama   overstepped his authority investigating Russia’s involvement in   the 2016 election. ” ’   On Saturday, Obama spokesman Kevin Lewis denied the   previous White House interfered in the investigation into   the 2016 election. ’ ’   ”A cardinal rule of the Obama administration was that no White   House official ever interfered with any independent investigation   led by the Department of Justice. As part of that practice,   neither President Obama nor any White House official ever ordered   surveillance on any US citizen. Any suggestion otherwise is   simply false,” Lewis said. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tWH spokesperson on Trump wiretap claim: ”He’s made very clear what he believes, and he’s asking we get down to the bottom of this.”  ’ ’     ’ ’ABC anchor Martha Raddatz grilled White House. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’