’  ’ ’   Former CIA Director Michael Hayden on Monday criticized the     Trump bloc of conservative media for advancing what he   deemed to be an ”illegitimate” world view. ’ ’   ”There are some outlets that have incredibly powerful lenses by   which they view the facts they collect,” Hayden told Business   Insider in a   interview. ”I think the Breitbart and the   likes are off the chart in terms of shaping data to meet the   preconceptions.” ’ ”   Hayden’s comments came after it was reported a conservative radio   host’s comments aggregated by Breitbart inspired Trump to    of   bugging phones at Trump Tower, a claim  as false by the FBI. ” ’   ”You have a Breitbart news story essentially launching the   Starfleet of the federal government about one of the most   horrible political scandals in American history, if true,” Hayden   said, adding that it was ”very troubling” the president seeming   to value Breitbart reports over data compiled by intelligence   agencies. ’ ’   ”Breitbart doesn’’t do any creative journalism, it just moves the   parts around,” Hayden continued. ”And I haven’’t done this   personally, but I’’ve heard others say, when you dig into the   Breitbart sources, the articles don’’t really say that.” ’ ’’ ’   Hayden concluded: ”It’’s kind of scary  —   a   world.   How does intelligence survive in a   world?” ’ ’   The former   Air Force general said too   that ”there’’s an amazing consistency” on a number of   subjects between the information disseminated by Russian outlets   and conservative sources like the Drudge Report, radio and   television host Sean Hannity, and Breitbart. ’ ’   ”There are powerful parallels between the Russian narrative and   things being said,” Hayden said, adding that the president   also uses similar talking points. ’ ’   Hayden stopped short, however, of making a ”moral judgment” on   whether such outlets are intentionally misleading the public. ’ ’   ”They have a world view and they are playing with it,” he said.   ”I think it’’s an illegitimate worldview and I think it’’s a     based world view. It’’s a world view in which     visions seem to be being used to distort the fact   pattern that exists.” ’ ’Former CIA Director Michael Hayden on Monday. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’