’  ’ ”   If you are a developer working at Uber these days, there’s a good   chance your friends are imploring you to quit the company  —     publicly on Twitter, privately on Facebook, or whenever you talk   to them. ” ’   People in Silicon Valley can’’t stop talking about the ”” at Uber after a former   engineer,  ’ ’  ’ ’ The third was from a woman who said her   female boss  about the tank top she wore to work   and harangued her in other ways. ’ ’   On top of that, Fowler has said that the company has hired    and believes she may   soon be the subject of a ”,” according to her tweets. Uber denies this  —   a   representative told Business Insider that this second law firm   reports to Holder and ”they are investigating Susan’’s claims, not   Susan personally.” ’ ”   On Friday, The New York Times’ Mike Issac published a story    in which Uber   refused service (and provided fake data) to people requesting   rides if Uber suspected those people of being undercover law   enforcement or working for competitors. ” ’   All this comes on top of many other scandals over the years. ’ ’  ’ ’   The hashtag #DeleteUber went viral last month over Uber’’s   handling of the immigration protests and related taxi driver   strike. There was outrage over its   tactics.   Even before that, there were allegations that Uber employees used   a tool called ”God View” to spy on customers’’ activities   (resulting in Uber paying a). ’ ”   Plus, there was the scandal over an Uber exec’s   offhand suggestion that the company should dig up dirt on   the personal life of a female journalist who criticized the   company. ” ”   And there’s been ongoing complaints over the company’s treatment   of its drivers, including an incident caught on video of Uber CEO   Travis Kalanick arguing with a driver,  ” ”   Now many of the people who make up the Valley’s engine  —   its   engineers, programmers, and developers  —   have dubbed the company   so toxic that they want their colleagues to   stop working there and helping it. ” ’   This is a serious concern for many developers.  programmers are routinely asked to do   unethical and sometimes illegal things at all sorts of companies.   There’’s a movement under foot for developers to   to   protect themselves. But short of that, their reputations as   ethical and honorable people come in large part from their   resumes. In Silicon Valley the ”mission” that your company   works on is as important to your career as the technical skills   that you possess. ’ ”   A year or two ago, Uber was viewed as the quintessential example   of how tech could change the world, and working there was a badge   of honor. But the longer they stay, the more their own   reputations could be impacted by the company’s public missteps. ” ’   There are  although an Uber spokesperson says the company   has ’ ’   Still, here are a few pubic tweets of people pressuring Uber   employees to quit.  ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tTo everyone in positions of power at : it is your personal responsibility to stop this bullshit. Do the right thing. Or at least quit.  ’ ’     ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tIf you’re an engineer working at Uber, you better have a GREAT reason for why you haven’t started looking for a new job by now. ’t’t’ ’ ’t’t’tThe truth is: It’s probably TOO late to leave without a stain on your character. You should start thinking of rehabilitation. ’t’t’ ’     ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tOn the plus side the best engineer I’ve ever worked with is job hunting, was considering Uber, & now wouldn’t go near them   10 foot poll. .’t’t” ’     ’ ’ ’ ’  a friend of mine has an Uber offer in hand and will pass on it, even though the pay is way above other offers. ’t’t’ ’     ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tIf you work at Uber and haven’t quit yet. .. why?  ” ’     ’ ’If you are a developer working at Uber these. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’