’  ’ ’   A controversial ”bathroom bill” in Texas cleared its first hurdle   on Wednesday,  through a legislative committee after a   marathon session of testimony that started a full day   earlier. ’ ’   The   bill would require transgender people to   use the public bathrooms and facilities that match the sex   on their birth certificates, regardless of their gender   identity.  ’ ’   Much like a similar law passed last year in North Carolina,   the proposal has angered Texas business groups and advocates of   LGBT rights, and has become a political flashpoint in   the state. ’ ”   The bill will move to the Senate, where it will be debated next   week. Here’s everything you need to know about it. ” ’   The   ”bathroom bill,” known as SB6, says that the   restrooms and changing facilities in public spaces  —   public   schools and government buildings, for example  —   should be   restricted to people of the same ”biological sex.” The bill   defines biological sex as the sex listed on one’’s birth   certificate. ’ ’   The bill would overrule any local   bathroom   ordinances, like ones passed in Dallas and Austin.  ’ ’   Republican lawmakers have claimed ownership of SB6 since Lt. Gov.   Dan Patrick  a ”top priority” of the legislative session near   the end of 2016. The bill was sponsored by state Sen. Lois   Kolkhorst, and several of her fellow Republicans have publicly   expressed support for it. ’ ’   At least one Democrat has crossed party lines  —   and family lines    —   to support the bill. Democratic Sen. Eddie Lucio Jr. announced   on Monday he would vote for SB6,  with his son, Eddie Lucio III, a   Democratic representative. ’ ”   Supporters of the bill claim it’s about safety  —     namely, keeping sexual predators out of bathrooms. Without the   law, Patrick and others  men could pose as transgender women in order   to enter women’s bathrooms and commit crimes. Kolkhorst has   denied that the bill discriminates against transgender   people.  ” ’   Notably, the word ”transgender” does not appear anywhere in   the language of the bill. ’ ’  ’ ’     advocates and Democratic lawmakers tore into the bill   before it was even written, calling it unnecessary legislation   that will lead to discrimination against transgender   people.  ’ ’   ”Forcing us into a restroom we do not feel comfortable in places   us at extreme risk of physical harm,” transgender activist Pamela   Curry  on Tuesday. Curry   was one of several hundred people who condemned the bill at   Tuesday’’s meeting. ’ ”   Business groups in Texas have also blasted the bill, saying   it will negatively affect business in Texas, and hurt the   state’s reputation. A group of nearly 70 businesses, including   Google, Facebook, and Amazon,  in a letter to Texas. Gov. Greg   Abbott. ” ”   SB6 is modeled after a bathroom law passed in North Carolina a   year ago, and critics fear the outcome in Texas could be   similar to North Carolina’s fate. ” ”   Total economic losses stemming from North Carolina’s law have   been pegged in the  of dollars  —   a combination of frozen   business expansions, canceled concerts from     musicians, and relocated . ” ’   The economic impact on Texas is hard to estimate, but one study   found Texas is risking more than $1 billion by passing SB6. ’ ”   It’s hard to tell. The senate committee approved the bill     and it is expected to pass through the Senate next week. ” ’   But it could face a roadblock when it reaches the House of   Representatives thanks to House Speaker Joe Straus, a Republican   who has . ’ ’   Meanwhile, Texas Gov. Gregg Abbott, a Republican, has remained   mostly neutral on the subject, declining to say whether he   supports it or not. However, he did  for trying to ”micromanage” his state’’s   policy. ’ ’A controversial ”bathroom bill” in Texas. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’