’  ’ ’   White House press secretary Sean Spicer passed along an answer   from President Donald Trump on Friday about whether he still   believed jobs reports were ”phony” or ”totally fiction.” ’ ’   Trump was greeted with a jobs report Friday  —   the first full   report released under his tenure  —   that showed the US economy   gained 235, 000 jobs for the month of February, . Unemployment dipped   from 4. 8% to 4. 7% and the   participation rate ticked   up to 63%. ’ ”   Spicer was asked specifically about Trump’s feelings on the stats   during the Friday press briefing by a reporter who was curious   about whether Trump was still of the mindset that such reports   were not to be trusted. ” ’   ”Does the president believe that this jobs report was accurate?”   he asked. ’ ’   ”I talked to the president about this,” Spicer responded,   smiling. ”And he said to quote him very clearly: ’’They may have   been phony in the past, but it’’s very real now. ’’” ’ ’   Earlier Friday, Trump had retweeted a tweet from the Drudge   Report that read: ”GREAT AGAIN: +235, 000.” ’ ’   Trump, during the campaign and in its aftermath, slammed the   monthly numbers put out by the Bureau of Labor Statistics,   particularly the unemployment rate. During an Iowa rally in early   December, he said the calculation is ”totally fiction.” ’ ’   ”If you look for a job for six months and then you give up, they   consider you give up,” he said. ”You just give up. You go home.   You say, ’’Darling, I can’’t get a job. ’’ They consider you   statistically employed. It’’s not the way. But don’’t worry about   it because it’’s going to take care of itself pretty quickly.” ’ ’   Trump, at one point, went as far as saying the real unemployment   rate was in the area of 42%. ’ ’ one of his   first, Spicer did not want to settle on what the unemployment   rate was, saying there are ”several versions” put out by the   Bureau of Labor Statistics. ’ ’   The press secretary later said then that Trump ”sees people   that are hurting,” and that ”it’’s not just a number” to him. He   said the president is ”not focused on statistics,” but ”if people   are doing better off.” ’ ’   ”I think that’’s where his head is at,” he said, adding that   previously ”it’’s been about what number we’’re looking at instead   of what face we’’re looking at.” ’ ’   The BLS classifies people as unemployed if they do not have a   job, are available to work, and have sought jobs within the past   month. It does not count retirees, students, caretakers, and   people who are not seeking work as part of the labor force, from   which the unemployment rate is calculated. ’ ’ ’ ’President Trump on the job report, per Sean Spicer: “They may have been phony in the past, but it’s very real now. ” ’ ’White House press secretary Sean Spicer passed. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’