’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’Trump has promoted the wall as a part of a solution to   crime and to illegal immigration.’ ’And while an above ground physical barrier may disrupt or delay surface movements, smugglers have long used another transportation method that a wall or fence is unlikely to interrupt.’ ’”Drug traffickers love using tunnels,” journalist Ioan Grillo told Business Insider in early 2016. ”The   border is like a block of cheese with holes in it, with tunnels across it. ”’ ’The ”  border is literally riddled with tunnels,” Mike Vigil, former head of international operations at the US Drug Enforcement Administration, .’ ’”They have to move those drugs across the border and probably the most secure method is through the use of tunnels,” said Vigil, .’ ’US authorities have long relied on   detective work to detect tunnels and tunnel construction, supplementing their surveillance with seismic devices and   radar.’ ’But traffickers have gravitated to areas where geographic features, like soil composition, and surface features  —   such as drainage networks and legitimate construction work  —   obscure their activities.’ ’The    nature of these passages, and the   cargo that pass through them, ensure that there will always be more to find  —   something Kelly himself .’ ’Source: ’ ’Source: ’ ’Source: ’ ’’ ’Source: ’ ’Source: ’ ’Source: ’ ’ ’ ’Source: ’ ’Source: ’ ’’ ’Source: ’ ’Source: ’ ’Guzmán escaped Altiplano prison in July 2015, through a complex,   tunnel. (He was recaptured in January 2016 and briefly rejailed at Altiplano before he was extradited in January 2017. )’ ’Based on  in the same prison wing, as well as similarities in the construction of the tunnel,  that Villalobos had some how helped coordinate the breakout while he was behind bars himself.’ ’Source: ’ ’Total Station  used to measure and plot various construction projects. ’ ’The equipment used by cartel engineers ”’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’Marijuana is grown extensively in Mexico, particularly in the region where Guzmán grew up in Sinaloa and neighboring Sonora. Smugglers moving mass quantities of it through tunnels can reap huge profits. ’ ’Source: ’ ’’ ’’ ’Source: ’