’  ’ ’   Defense Secretary Jim Mattis on Friday released a statement   condemning the reported sharing of nude photos by US military   personnel, saying such behavior is ”unacceptable and counter to   unit cohesion.” ’ ’   ”The purported actions of civilian and military personnel on   social media websites, including some associated with the Marines   United group and possibly others, represent egregious violations   of the fundamental values we uphold at the Department of   Defense,” Mattis said,  obtained by Andrew deGrandpre at Military   Times. ’ ’   The statement comes just one day after Business Insider reported   that  had been affected by   the    scandal, . ’ ’   Mattis added that the Pentagon was ”taking all appropriate   action” to investigate any wrongful behavior of     service members. ’ ’   ”Lack of respect for the dignity and humanity of fellow members   of the Department of Defense is unacceptable and counter to unit   cohesion,” Mattis said. ”We will not excuse or tolerate such   behavior if we are to uphold our values and maintain our ability   to defeat the enemy on the battlefield.” ’ ’’ ’   Marine Corps Commandant Gen. Robert Neller  on Tuesday, saying in a   video, ”When I hear allegations of Marines denigrating their   fellow Marines, I don’’t think such behavior is that of true   warriors or warfighters.” ’ ’   The Pentagon has come under fire from the media and congressional   leaders in recent days, especially after the scandal, which   prompted an investigation into hundreds of Marines who were   accused of sharing naked photographs of their colleagues in a   private Facebook group, was found to be . ’ ”   The practice of sharing such photos goes beyond the Marine Corps   and one Facebook group. Hundreds of nude photos of female service   members from every military branch have been posted to an     message board that dates back to at least May. A   source informed Business Insider of the site’s existence on   Tuesday. ” ’   The site, called AnonIB, has a dedicated board for military   personnel that features dozens of threaded conversations among   men, many of whom ask for ”wins”  —   naked photographs  —   of   specific female service members, often identifying the women by   name or where they are stationed. ’ ’Defense Secretary Jim Mattis on Friday released. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’