’  ’ ”   Sen. John McCain predicted Sunday that the public would learn   more about the relationship between President Donald Trump’s 2016   presidential campaign and the Russian government. ” ’   In an interview on CNN’’s ”State of the Union,” the Arizona   Republican said there were ”a lot of things about our   relations with Russia that trouble me a lot.” ’ ’   He  in   the 2016 Republican party platform that supported sending lethal   weapons to Ukraine, a move that was ”not the will of most   Republicans.” ’ ’   ”There’’s a lot of aspects of this whole relationship with Russia   and Vladimir Putin that requires further scrutiny. And so far, I   don’’t think the American people have gotten all the answers,”   McCain said. ”I think there’’s a lot more shoes to drop from this   centipede.” ’ ’   McCain also argued for  who admitted to having contacts with the hackers   who released private emails within the Democratic National   Committee last summer. ’ ’’ ’   ”I think he and others need to be questioned,” McCain said,   adding that Stone also had ties with ousted former Ukrainian   President Victor Yanukovych, a Kremlin ally. ’ ’   ”This whole issue of the relationship with the Russians and who   communicated with them and under what circumstances clearly cries   out for investigation,” he said. ”But I would also point out we   should not assume guilt until we have a thorough investigation.   I’’m not judging anyone guilty.” ’ ”   The Arizona senator also dismissed Trump’s unfounded claim   last weekend that former President Barack Obama personally   ordered the wiretapping of Trump Tower phones because of his   suspected ties to Russia. ” ’   ”President Trump has to provide the American people, not just the   Intelligence Committee, but the American people, with evidence   that his predecessor, former president of the United States, was   guilty of breaking the law, because our director of national   intelligence, General Clapper, testified that there was   absolutely no truth to that allegation,” McCain said. ’ ’   He continued: ”So, I think the president has one of two choices:   either retract or to provide the information that the American   people deserve. Because, if his predecessor violated the law,   [if] President Obama violated the law, we have got a serious   issue here, to say the least.” ’ ”   The senator has remained engaged in the current inquiry into   Russia’s involvement in the election. ” ”   McCain is one of several Republicans who have called for an   independent congressional investigation of Russia’s interference   in the 2016 election, and has warned of Russia’s attempts to use   similar tactics in the German and French elections this year. ” ’   But while he has emerged as an outspoken critic of the new   administration’’s foreign policy worldview, some skeptics  McCain has rarely gone further than voice his   displeasure with Trump. Despite his longtime depiction as a   ”maverick,” McCain has only voted against Trump’’s position    though his chances to do so thus far have   been limited.  ’ ’Sen. John McCain predicted Sunday that the. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’