’Starting a company at any age can be a difficult endeavor.’ ’In most cases an entrepreneur needs to secure the necessary funding, get the right team together, and fend off potential competitors.’ ’Business Insider spoke with eight   entrepreneurs named to the  who know what it takes to start a company from the ground up.’ ’They come from different walks of life and have started companies in various industries. But they all share a similar tenacity, and are disrupting their respective fields.’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ”Don’t be scared to ask for more than what you think you’re entitled to. I always tell young women that they have a right to own their opinion, to speak up, and to make the first move. Ask yourself if a man were to do this would it be OK.” ”When Michael Kennedy set out to start his own wine business,  he was looking to break some of the . Here’s Kennedy’s advice for aspiring entrepreneurs:” ’Maxim Rezmakhin is the cofounder of  an online   service . This is the advice he thinks aspiring entrepreneurs should consider:’ ’When Amber Venz Box was    and working as a personal shopper, she launched a blog to attract potential clients. That project led to the creation of her current company  a platform that allows   influencers ”to make cash from their social media content.” Box told BI young entrepreneurs should consider the following:’ ’After David Hysong  he founded  a biotech firm dedicated to finding cures for rare cancers. He told BI that aspiring entrepreneurs need to do two things:’ ”Michael Martin’s firm,  is growing quick.  was launched in June 2016 and the company expects to be in a million devices by the end of this year. Martin told BI that aspiring entrepreneurs should consider the following:” ’Eugene Marinelli is the cofounder of Blend, a fintech startup that aims to make the mortgage process quicker and more affordable for lenders and big banks. He told BI that young entrepreneurs should consider the following pieces of advice:’ ’ ’ ’Johnson is the CEO and cofounder of  a biotech company that ”allows scientists to  as opposed to the traditional   slices,” according to Forbes.  in body tissue samples. Here’’s the advice Johnson thinks young entrepreneurs should follow:’ ’Starting a company at any age can be a. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’