’  ’ ’   How do you clear a guilty conscience? ’ ’   For one American, it meant repaying his debts by returning $0. 09   to the US Treasury. For another, it meant sending the government   $155, 502. ’ ”   And we don’t know what they did because it was all done   anonymously. ” ’   For more than 200 years, the Treasury has had a place for those   with gnawing guilt to send cash and perhaps absolve them of their   sins. ’ ”   It’s known as the . ” ”   Some people are surprised to learn about the fund, Ryan Hanna,   one of the fund’s managers, told Business Insider. Hanna is one   of 2, 000 people based out of the Treasury’s office in   Parkersburg, West Virginia, where people can send their   remittance. ” ”   People have donated because they’ve stolen supplies while in the   military, withheld payments to the IRS, or just found cash lying   on the street  —   all because the thought of keeping someone else’s   money burned a hole in their conscience. ” ’   ”When we have new employees and they start looking at the list of   the accounts we manage,” Hanna added, ”they see the description   and a lot of times they’’ll ask ’’What’’s that for? ’’” ’ ’   It all began in 1811, when a donor sent $5 to the Treasury, then   under the Madison Administration. The fund was authorized in   1950, and the Conscience Fund has served as the home for   anonymous remittances since. ’ ”   The fund doesn’t usually pursue people for their crimes, but it   does send   notes. ” ”   People send donations anonymously by sending in a money order or   a cashier’s check; by sending money through relatives or   attorneys; or by stuffing cash into an envelope. ” ’   Even when the largest donation was made, in 1990, in the amount   of $155, 502, the Treasury accepted the money without question. ’ ”   Hanna and Walcutt couldn’t comment on the total value of   donations since the Conscience Fund began. But a 1987 New York   Times article  at more than $5. 7 million at the time. ” ’   Montgomery said the money the fund receives ends up in the   Treasury’’s general account under ”miscellaneous receipts.” It’’s   used for general expenses. ’ ’  ’ ’   But the fund has received a lot less in recent years, with $1. 1   million in donations in 2014 and $427, 000 in 2015. ’ ’   By 2016, it had fallen to just $23, 000, and, to date, in 2017   (about halfway through the fiscal year) it has seen just one   donation, in the amount of $1, 600. ’ ’   Pew Research data has found that trust in the federal government   is at  since 1958, although neither Hanna   nor Walcutt wanted to speculate that trust was necessarily   correlated with falling   donations, which ”vary   widely” from year to year, Hanna said. ’ ’   Both said the decline probably doesn’’t put the fund in jeopardy   of getting dismantled. ”I don’’t know that there would ever been   an initiative to get rid of it,” Hanna said. ’ ”   Donations have ranged in size over the fund’s   existence.   Most are under $100. The smallest was for those nine cents, when   a man atoned for illegally using a $0. 03 stamp on three separate   occasions. Other donations have risen into the thousands, often   on behalf of an estate. ” ”   With 100 funds to manage in total, Hanna and Walcutt aren’t   spending the majority of their time on the Conscience Fund. It’s   more of a background operation that gets a fun bit of attention   now and then. Donors often include a note expressing their grief   for having stolen in the first place. ” ’   Though technically necessary in order for managers to sort the   money into the correct fund, the note has become a kind of   tradition. ’ ’   ”This check for $1, 300 is to make restitution of tools, leave   days and other things I stole while I was in the Navy from ’’62 to   ’’67,’’” one note said, according to . ’ ’   Another read: ’’’’Please accept this money enclosed for two postal   stamps I reused. ’’” ’ ’How do you clear a guilty conscience? For one. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’