’  ’ ’   The Congressional Budget Office  that as many as 24 million more people   would be uninsured and that the federal budget deficit would   shrink by more than $300 billion over the next decade under the   Republican healthcare bill. ’ ”   The findings came in a   report detailing the   possible effects of the American Health Care Act, the GOP   leadership’s plan to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act. ” ’   The report estimated the effects of the AHCA in several areas,   including coverage totals, the federal deficit, and the cost of   premiums in the individual market. ’ ”   Here’s a rundown of the major findings: ” ’   Critics of the law had pointed to the CBO score as a way to   better understand the potential effects of the AHCA on the   federal budget and the US healthcare system. ’ ’’ ’   In a statement after the release of the report, House Speaker   Paul Ryan, the Wisconsin Republican, focused on the projected   premium decreases, saying it proved that the AHCA could be   successful: ’ ’   On the other hand, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, the New   York Democrat, focused on the increase in the number of uninsured   people. ’ ’   ”The CBO’’s estimate makes clear that Trumpcare will cause serious   harm to millions of American families,” a statement from Schumer   said. ”Tens of millions will lose their coverage, and millions   more, particularly seniors, will have to pay more for healthcare.   The CBO score shows just how empty the president’’s promises, that   everyone will be covered and costs will go down, have been. This   should be a looming stop sign for the Republicans’’ repeal   effort.” ’ ’   The White House and proponents of the AHCA have spent much of the   past week casting doubts on the CBO score in an attempt to blunt   the widely expected blow from the report. ’ ’   In a press conference last week, White House press secretary    ”If you’’re looking at the CBO for accuracy,   you’’re looking in the wrong place.” Other White House surrogates,   such as National Economic Council Director Gary Cohn and Office   of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney,  in interviews on Sunday. ’ ’   The AHCA passed the House Energy and Commerce Committee and Ways   and Means Committee on Thursday, and it is scheduled to be   considered by the House Budget Committee on Wednesday. ’ ’The Congressional Budget Office on Monday. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’