’  ’ ”   The S&P 500 just did something it hasn’t done since 1995. ” ”   Tuesday marked the 105th consecutive day that the S&P 500 did   not close down by 1% or more. That’s 105 straight days of either   closing up or seeing a drop of less than 1%. ” ’   The last time this happened was in 1995,  a senior market strategist at LPL Financial. ’ ’   Stocks rallied after the November election of President Donald   Trump as investors considered the possibility of deregulation,   fiscal stimulus, and tax cuts. ’ ”   At the beginning of 2017, several market strategists, including   Raymond James’ Jeff Saut,  the bull market had transitioned from on driven   by interest rates to . Whatever the causes, stocks have   continued climbing, with the Dow blowing through  after a more measured tone in Trump’s speech to   Congress on February 28. ” ”   Some investors have started pointing to potential warning signs.   Michael Paulenoff, president of  previously   told Business Insider’s Frank Chaparro that some indications of a   correction  such as the declining volume in the   stock market. ” ’  ’ ”   However, others don’t think that the nonvolatile index is in and   of itself a scary sign. ” ’   ”The lack of volatility is historic in its own right, but is it   bearish?” Detrick  on Tuesday. ”History would say we can   expect more volatility eventually, but this doesn’’t mean to be on   the lookout for a major correction either. ’ ’   ”In fact, after a streak of 100 or more days without a 1% drop   has ended, the S&P 500 has been up a very impressive median   return of 14. 4% a year later and higher 75% of the time. In other   words, a lack of big down days or a lack of volatility by itself   isn’’t a warning sign.” ’ ”   In any case, as always, we must emphasize that the past   does not predict the future. So, the fact that something   has happened in the past does not mean that it will happen today,   nor does it mean that it won’t happen. ” ’   That is: Where the market is going in the next days, weeks, and   months is impossible to predict with any certainty. ’ ”The S&P 500 just did something it hasn’t. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’