’  ’ ”   The annual Foal Eagle military drills between the US and South   Korea will include some heavy hitters this year  —   the Navy SEAL   team that took out Osama bin Laden, Army Special Forces, and      —   South Korea’s . ” ’   South Korean news outlets report that the SEALs, who will join   the exercise for the first time, will simulate a ”decapitation   attack,” or a strike to remove North Korea’’s leadership. ’ ’   Pentagon spokesman Cmdr. Gary Ross later told Business Insider   that the US military ”does not train for decapitation missions”   of any kind. ’ ’   Yet a decapitation force would fit with a  that the   White House is considering military action against the Kim   regime. ’ ’   The SEALs boarded the USS Carl Vinson aircraft carrier and should   arrive in South Korea on Wednesday, Joon Gang Daily reports. ’ ’   South Korea has also made efforts toward a decapitation force,   and international calls for action have increased in intensity   after  which   simulated a saturation attack to defeat US and allied missile   defenses. ’ ’   “It will send a very strong message to North Korea, which is   constantly carrying out military provocations,” a ministry   official told Joon Gang Daily. ’ ’   The  exercise includes 3, 600 US troops,   in addition to the 28, 000 US troops permanently stationed in   South Korea. The drills include air, land, and sea operations   designed to prepare the joint forces in case of a conflict with   North Korea. ’ ”   This year’s exercise also integrates preparation for the . ” ’  ’ ”   Additionally, the US’s newest combat aircraft, the   will fly   in to ’s missile   infrastructure, Joon Gang Daily reports. The   will accompany   many of the US’s   platforms, like . ” ’   ”A bigger number of and more diverse US special operation forces   will take part in this year’’s Foal Eagle and Key Resolve   exercises to practice missions to infiltrate into the North,   remove the North’’s war command and demolition of its key military   facilities,” the an unnamed military official . ’ ’ This post has been updated to include the statement from the   Pentagon. ’ ’The annual Foal Eagle military drills between. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’