’  ’ ’   White House press secretary Sean Spicer said on Tuesday that   President Donald Trump was ”extremely confident” the Department   of Justice would find evidence that the Obama administration   wiretapped him before the election. ’ ”   Spicer made the comment during Tuesday’s press briefing when he   was asked whether Trump was confident that any evidence would   surface to support Trump’s unsubstantiated claims of   surveillance. ” ’   ”I’’ll let them do their job, I’’ll let the House and Senate and   I’’ll let the DOJ report this, but as I’’ve commented in the past,   I think there’’s significant reporting about surveillance   techniques that have existed throughout the 2016 election,”   Spicer said. ’ ’   ”I’’ll leave it to them to issue their report, but I think he   feels very confident that what will ultimately come of this will   vindicate him,” he added. ’ ’   In a series of tweets earlier this month, Trump accused President   Barack Obama of tapping phones at Trump Tower. ’ ’’ ’   ”How low has President Obama gone to tapp my phones during the   very sacred election process,” . ”This is  . Bad (or sick) guy!” ’ ’   But Spicer  that Trump ”doesn’’t really think” Obama   ”personally” wiretapped Trump Tower. ’ ’   Spicer claimed that Trump had accused Obama of generally   surveilling him, rather than of specifically wiretapping Trump’’s   phones. Spicer argued that since Trump had put quotation marks   around ”wire tapping” in two of his four tweets, he was   indicating the term should not be taken literally. ’ ’   ”I think there’’s no question that the Obama administration, that   there were actions about surveillance and other activities that   occurred in the 2016 election,” Spicer said. ”That is a widely   reported activity that occurred back then.” ’ ’   While intelligence agencies  between the Trump   campaign and Russian officials through an investigation into   Russian attempts to interfere in the US election, no credible   mainstream news outlets have reported that Obama or his   administration had conducted surveillance on Trump or the   campaign. ’ ’   Spicer and Trump may have been referring to a  concerning the conservative radio host Mark   Levin’’s allegations that Obama had sought to ”undermine” Trump’’s   campaign in the final days of the presidential election. ’ ”   On Monday, the Justice Department said it had  to respond to a request from members of   the House Intelligence Committee to provide any evidence of the   Obama administration’s wiretapping of Trump. ” ’ Eliza Relman contributed to this report. ’ ’White House press secretary Sean Spicer said on. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’