Good morning.  We’re trying something new for our readers in Asia and Australia: a morning briefing to   your day.  What do you like? What do you want to see here? Email us with your feedback at asiabriefing@nytimes. com. Here’s what you need to know: • The contentious American presidential race is fracturing the Republican Party. Donald J. Trump and his allies are turning on Republican leaders in Congress with an intensity that sometimes matches their battle against Hillary Clinton. The latest hacked emails from WikiLeaks reveal worries about Clinton Foundation donations hurting Mrs. Clinton’s political future. (The Clinton and Trump foundations are vastly different.) Mr. Trump has begun engaging in barely veiled promotions of his business brand, pulling reporters to his marquee properties between his campaign events. On Wednesday, he held a   at his   hotel near the White House. And Mr. Trump inaugurated a   talk show that is helping stoke speculation that he is planning to start his own network after the election. • President Rodrigo Duterte of the Philippines used his state visit to Japan to ratchet up his   remarks. “I want them out,” Mr. Duterte said of the United States troops in his country, adding that he was willing to “revise or abrogate agreements” on military bases. But deep cultural, economic and military ties make upending the alliance unlikely. • Russia abruptly withdrew its application to dock three warships for refueling at a Spanish port in the Mediterranean, after NATO members urged Spain to turn the vessels away. The ships are en route to support Russian military operations in Syria. • The Islamic State is under siege in Syria and Iraq, but its influence is still felt around the world. Fighters linked to the terror group seized a port town in Somalia, and a group of gunmen who claimed allegiance to the group executed 23 civilian hostages in western Afghanistan. • “Incredibly lucky. ” That was our photographer, who was covering Iraqi forces’ push toward Mosul when his convoy was hit by a suicide car bomb. This is his account, with photos and videos.  • Australia will suffer from drought, more extremely hot days and a longer and fiercer fire season, the county’s top weather scientists say. The report offers a snapshot to countries around the world of the challenges of climate change. • ZTO Express, the Chinese delivery service, is coming to Wall Street in what many expect to be the biggest initial public offering of the year. ZTO’s top customer is the   giant Alibaba. • Samsung Electronics’ Galaxy Note 7 debacle virtually wiped out   profit at its mobile division. The company said it expected the division to recover in the coming quarter. • Recalled Takata airbags are still circulating freely in used cars in the United States, especially at auctions, the   rung of the market. • A glut of cash in Europe and Asia that is being pumped into the U. S. bond market has many economists warning of a looming crisis. They say the situation echoes a wave of investment in the years before last decade’s financial meltdown. • U. S. markets were lower, led by real estate shares. Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • China is holding military drills in an area of the South China Sea today and has ordered all other shipping to avoid the zone. [Reuters] • Dreamworld, the Australian theme park, said it would reopen this week with a “Memorial Day” for the four adults who were killed on a ride. [BBC] • The Afghan woman whose photograph as a young refugee was published on the cover of National Geographic in 1985 was arrested in Pakistan for trying to obtain illegal identity cards. [The New York Times] • Hong Kong’s legislative council was thrown into chaos and adjourned again as two barred lawmakers stormed into the chamber with supporters. [South China Morning Post] • China instituted the   policy on this day in 1982 and suspended it a year ago. A new study in a British medical journal predicts no baby boom and a peak population of 1. 45 billion in 2029. [CCTV] • Five officials with the environmental protection agency in Xian, China, have been detained for tampering with   devices and falsifying data. [The Straits Times] • Mount Fuji tied a record for the latest date it has ever been capped by snow. Japan began keeping track of the event in 1894 the record was set in 1956. [Asahi Shimbun] • AIDS arrived in the U. S. long before “Patient Zero. ” [The New York Times] • Relocating the 6, 000 or more people who had been living in “The Jungle” encampment in Calais has exposed France’s divided view of migrants. [The New York Times] • The original set of 176 emojis, created by the Japanese mobile provider NTT DoCoMo and released in 1999, is now in the permanent collection of the Museum of Modern Art in New York. • We’ve all lied once or twice to spare someone’s feelings, but a new study looks at how fibbing could turn into serial dishonesty. • The surfing world knew John John Florence was the best. Now it’s official. How much is a rat’s life worth? The universally loathed rodent is a frequent target of eradication programs in cities worldwide. Jakarta is the latest metropolis attempting to eliminate the urban pest to prevent outbreaks of diseases. Officials say they will offer a bounty of about $1. 50 a rat. That’s a bump from Paris’s offer of a nickel in 1920 (about 60 cents today) during its war on the animal. The Times reported then about a hunter using explosives who handed in about 250 tails. But it was a hoax. The police learned they were made of string and rubber. About 20 years later, the going rate for rat was just 2 cents in Chongqing, China. Humans were enlisted to help after it was said the rodents used their whiskers to poison the dogs sent to exterminate them. There are twists on the financial incentives to wipe out invasive species. Fishermen in Jamaica have reaped the benefits of a demand for lionfish on dinner plates. And prize money is offered in a Florida contest aimed at culling the state’s Burmese python population. Contestants there are allowed to use guns, but that’s something Jakarta’s deputy governor hopes to avoid. “If you miss your shot,” he warned, “the bullets could hit other people. ” Patrick Boehler contributed reporting.  Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings. What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes. com.