’  ’ ’   Though it has been around for over a decade, the video game     —   for smartphones,   PCs, and game consoles  —   might still be flying under your radar. ’ ”   This is especially true if you’re, say, older than 13. ” ’   On Tuesday, Roblox, already profitable, announced a $92 million   round of   funding led by Snapchat investor   Meritech Capital Partners and Index Ventures. ’ ’   And the company has big plans to extend that ”free market” into   wild areas beyond games. ’ ’   Roblox is already a massive hit, with 48 million monthly players,   up to 1 million of whom are logged on simultaneously during peak   times, and it is growing fast. That puts it only slightly behind   the 55 million monthly players most recently claimed by   Minecraft, the . ’ ’   More impressive, Roblox is creating a new generation of   entrepreneurs. Roblox is entirely   with players of   all ages able to program and sell their own games and items   within the game itself. Today, there 500, 000 developers who are   creating things within Roblox. ’ ”   In other words, it’s more than just a game. ” ’ Baszucki. ’ ’  ’ ’   Baszucki says some developers are making $50, 000 a month creating   things within the game, at the high end. Back in 2015, too,   . And Baszucki says that even younger kids are   getting in on it, with a    player recently using his   Roblox creations to fund a family trip . .. to the annual Roblox   convention, naturally. ’ ’  ’ ’   To Baszucki’’s mind, Roblox is already more than a game: It’’s a   platform for ”human  .” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Baszucki says this speaks to the simple need for young people to   have a safe place to hang out with their friends. In a world   where kids seem to be increasingly busy in the real world, the   virtual world is a solid substitute. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’ ’ ’   For Baszucki, there’’s no reason why worlds created in Roblox   couldn’’t be huge media brands unto themselves. Minecraft and   Pokémon turned into vast   empires, so why not ”Roblox   High School” or anything else made in Roblox? ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’Though it has been around for over a decade. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’