’  ’ ”   Despite the American Health Care Act drawing support from   House Speaker Paul Ryan, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell   and President Donald Trump, the leadership’s biggest problem   still remains  —   senators in their own party. ” ’   Republican senators have cast doubt on the AHCA  —   which   would repeal and replace Obamacare  —   after the  that   the law would cause as many as 24 million more Americans to   lack health insurance by 2026. ’ ’   ”It’’s awful. It has to be a concern,” said Sen.   Bill  who has introduced his own alternative to the   AHCA. ”President Trump said he wanted as many people covered   as under Obamacare.” ’ ’   Republicans from stronghold states such as South Carolina,   Louisiana, and Arkansas have expressed misgivings about the   legislation after the CBO report, putting the future of the   healthcare law in doubt. ’ ’   ”We need to do better,”  said in a statement   following the CBO report. ’ ’’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   And Sen. Tom Cotton of Arkansas launched into a   lengthy rebuke of the AHCA on conservative radio host Hugh   Hewitt’’s show. He said that while the CBO director ”isn’’t Moses”   when it comes to estimating the number of people losing coverage,   he believed the CBO was ”directionally correct” about the   coverage losses. ’ ’   Sens. John McCain of Arizona and Susan Collins of Maine,   meanwhile,  the potential   effects described in the report. ’ ”   The biggest problem for Republican leaders is that only a   few defections from the party are enough to derail the AHCA’s   path to Trump’s desk. ” ’   The party holds a   majority in the Senate, so losing only   three votes would prevent the law from passing. Given the number   of senators that have previously said they have objections with   the bill and the lawmakers that expressed doubts after the CBO   score, there is a real chance that the GOP could have many   more defectors. ’ ”   Plus, Senate procedural rules could stop the bill in its tracks.    going through budget   reconciliations  —   as in the case of the AHCA  —   to include   anything that does not impact the budget’s bottom line. Analysts   and lawmakers have said that various aspects of the AHCA   could violate the provision and stop the bill in its tracks. ” ’   The bill passed two House committees last week and will be   considered by the House Budget Committee on Thursday. ’ ’Despite the American Health Care. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’