’’ ”President Trump’s administration released its  on Thursday, and it includes proposals to slash federal funding.” ’The budget proposes to cut off funding to 19 federal agencies  —   amounting to about $3 billion  —   including the National Endowment for the Humanities and the Corporation for National and Community Service, which administers the AmeriCorps program.’ ’The proposed budget deals with discretionary spending and must pass through the   Congress before it can be enacted.’ ”Here are the 19 federal agencies that will get the ax if Trump’s budget passes:” ’2017 budget: $445 million’ ’The CPB distributes taxpayer dollars to various public broadcasting organizations. The vast majority goes to local stations  —   especially in rural areas.’ ”National distributors like NPR and PBS also get small portions of their budgets from CPB. The budget cuts would primarily affect local public news outlets, which receive 90% of the CPB’s $445 million budget.” ’2017 budget: $1. 1 billion’ ”The Corporation for National and Community Service has a budget of $1. 1 billion, and it’s the largest program Trump’s budget will cut.” ’AmeriCorps, the program established by the Clinton Administration that engages over 80, 000 people in service initiatives across the US each year, is housed within the Corporation for National and Community Service.’ ’More than  have contributed more than 1. 4 billion hours of service since 1993. AmeriCorps runs programs such as City Year, which places volunteers into schools across the country that need the assistance.’ ’2017 budget: $148 million’ ’The  supports and promotes artists across the US. It was launched over 50 years ago by President Lyndon B. Johnson and has made more than 128, 000 grants during that time, totaling $5 billion.’ ’The NEA has been a controversial program since the   when conservative groups pressured Congress to cut funding after grants were provided to artists like photographers Robert Mapplethorpe and Andres Serrano.’ ’”Piss Christ,” a 1987 photograph by Serrano depicting a crucifix submerged in urine,  as a reason to cut funding to the NEA.’ ’2017 budget: ’ ’The  provides grants to musuems, universities, libraries, and scholars to support and strengthen studies in the humanities and culture.’ ’Like the NEA, the NEH was established by President Johnson through the Arts and Humanities Act in 1965.’ ’2017 budget: ’ ’The  is a partnership between federal, state, and local governments to develop the economy of the Appalachian region.’ ’The 13 states in the region  —   stretching from New York to Mississippi  —   are heavily reliant on the coal industry, which .’ ’2017 budget: ’ ’The  like the Appalachian Regional Commission, is an   agency that serves the   Delta region, including Kentucky, Tennessee, Louisiana, and Mississippi.’ ’2015 budget:  (most recent budget available)’ ’The  is an   agency focused on Alaska. Several years ago, its budget was as large as $150 million. Formed in 1998 as a pet project for  & Senator Ted Stevens of Alaska, the program sought to help develop rural Alaska by building power plants and roads and offering job training.’ ’2017 budget: ’ ’The  works with distressed counties in the Northeast border states, including Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, and New York, to develop their economies. It was established through the 2008 Farm Bill.’ ’2017 budget:  ’ ’The  is aimed at promoting US exports and assisting with constructing infrastructure abroad. The agency works create US jobs by linking businesses with opportunities to export goods to other countries. It has also supported efforts to mitigate climate change by working with partner countries to develop renewable, modern, and cleaner energy sources.’ ’2016 budget: ’ ’This agency aims to  by working with private companies and developing financial infrastructure in foreign countries. The institution uses private capital and works with the private sector to help the US ”.” It argues that, in doing so, it helps support US foreign policy.’ ’2017 budget:’ ’The  was established by Congress to support and invest in   businesses that improve livelihoods in poor African communities. The USADF operates in 20 countries, .’ ’2017 budget: ’ ’The  is a foreign agency focused on developing nongovernmental organizations and grassroots groups in the Caribbean and Latin America. Since it opened in 1972, the organization has awarded nearly 5, 000 grants worth more than $600 million.’ ’2017 budget:  ’ ’The Legal Services Corp. is the largest funder of civil legal aid for  in the US.’ ”The organization provides grants to   providers, who help America’s poor deal with legal issues related to domestic violence and family law, housing and foreclosures, disasters, and veterans’ affairs.” ’2017 budget: ’ ’Known as  this agency is housed within the Ben   Department of Housing and Urban Development. The agency assists community development organizations in urban, suburban, and rural areas.’ ’2017 budget: ’ ’This agency,  funds 35, 000 local museums and 123, 000 libraries across the country.’ ’2011 budget:  (most recent available)’ ’This agency was  under President Ronald Reagan, with the goal of mitigating and preventing conflicts abroad.’ ’2017 budget: ’ ’This agency is tasked with coordinating national solutions to end homelessness across the US.’ ’2017 budget: ’ ’This center functions as a     think tank for academics. It was founded through the Smithsonian Act of 1950.’ ’2017 budget: ’ ’The  is an independent federal agency tasked with investigating industrial chemical accidents. The CSB was established as part of the Clean Air Act in 1990.’ ”President Trump’s administration released its. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’