’  ’ ”   President Donald Trump’s explosive claims of wiretapping by his   predecessor, which have been  have caused an international row threatening the   foundation of the US’s relationship with its closest ally. ” ’   White House press secretary Sean Spicer  that said a   British intelligence agency, the Government Communications   Headquarters, or GCHQ, conspired with former President Barack   Obama to wiretap Trump before the election. ’ ’   Spicer mentioned the GCHQ as he attempted to defend Trump’’s   explosive accusation, leveled in a tweet earlier this month, that   Obama had Trump Tower’’s ”wires tapped” during the presidential   campaign. ’ ’   ”On Fox News on March 14, Judge Andrew Napolitano made the   following statement: ’’Three intelligence sources have informed   Fox News that President Obama went outside the chain of command  —     he didn’’t use the NSA, he didn’’t use the CIA, he didn’’t use the   FBI and he didn’’t use the Department of Justice; he used GCHQ,’’”   Spicer said. ’ ’   The comment prompted a   reaction from GCHQ, which   released a rare public statement categorically denying any   involvement and calling the accusation ”utterly ridiculous.” ’ ’   ”Recent allegations made by media commentator Judge Andrew   Napolitano about GCHQ being asked to conduct ’’wiretapping’’   against the then   are nonsense,” the statement   said. ”They are utterly ridiculous and should be ignored.” ’ ’   Matt Tait, a former   specialist for GCHQ who   founded the   security firm Capital Alpha Security, said   GCHQ’’s statement pushing back against the White House was ”very   unusual” and ”would have been signed off at the very highest   levels of the organization.” ’ ’   But it makes sense that it would push back so rigorously, since   what the White House had accused it of would be ”unambiguously   illegal,” Tait added. ’ ’   ”GCHQ  —   unlike its US counterparts  —   is very rigorous at not   saying anything about what it does, saying ’’It is a matter of     policy that the UK does not discuss intelligence   matters’’ even in cases where it might be beneficial to deny an   untrue claim,” Tait said. ”For GCHQ to go beyond that statement,   not merely to say ’’The allegation is false’’ but to call it   ’’nonsense’’ is an enormous step for an agency that is   traditionally very   about who it targets and how.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Tait said that while ”it’’s possible” that the GCHQ picked up   Trump’’s calls with other targeted people, it would have happened   only ”if Trump was in contact with people GCHQ was authorized to   listen to.” ’ ’   ”If GCHQ was authorized to target, say, a Russian intelligence   officer, and Trump phoned up that Russian intelligence officer,   then GCHQ might overhear that conversation, not because it wants   to hear what Trump has to say, but because they want to hear what   the Russian intelligence officer is up to,” Tait said. ’ ’   ”But one thing is certain: GCHQ cannot spy on US citizens on   behalf of the US without the US first obtaining US legal   authorization,” he added. ”It would be unambiguously illegal (and   unconstitutional) for the US to make the request and violate     agreements between the FVEY nations.” ’ ’   FVEY, or the Five Eyes, is an intelligence alliance comprising   the US, UK, Australia, Canada, and New Zealand. ’ ’   Bloomberg reported that there was a flurry of   contact   between the UK and US governments after Spicer made the remark,   and Spicer has since apologized and promised not to repeat the   claim, according to several media reports. ’ ’   ”Ambassador Kim Darroch and Sir Mark Lyall expressed their   concerns to Sean Spicer and General McMaster,” a White House   official said on Friday, referring to US National Security   Adviser H. R. McMaster. ”Mr. Spicer and General McMaster explained   that Mr. Spicer was simply pointing to public reports, not   endorsing any specific story.” ’ ’   Still, some experts say, ”the damage is done.” ’ ’   ”The   relationship is ’’special’’ in three core areas:   intelligence, special forces, and nuclear weapons,” said Tim   Oliver, a fellow at the London School of Economics who focuses on     American relations. ’ ’   ”Those core areas have usually been protected from the vagaries   of presidential or   ” Oliver said.   ”So to have the White House now drag part of the British   intelligence community into the tensions between the   administration, the press, and Obama has exposed the core of the     intelligence relationship in a way that will make Britain   wonder where do we go next, and how can we rely on the US to be a   reliable and trustworthy partner?” ’ ’   That partnership, experts say, is invaluable to both American and   British national security. And it could be jeopardized if the UK   starts to feel that the Trump administration cannot be trusted. ’ ’   Rebecca Lissner, a   fellow at the Council on   Foreign Relations who specializes in international security and   foreign policy, said in an email that the US and UK’’s ”extensive   intelligence ties” were formalized via a Five Eyes   arrangement that dates back to World War II. ’ ’   ”These are the countries with which the United States has the   very closest intelligence relationships, closer than all of our   other allies including NATO allies,” Lissner said. ”These   relationships benefit US national security because they allow our   intelligence community to benefit from rapid and easy information   sharing with highly capable intelligence services around the   world.” ’ ’   Lissner said that while it was ”highly unlikely” that the recent   incident between the US and UK would undo decades of cooperation,   ”the network is built on trust, and continued affronts against   our closest allies by the Trump administration could ultimately   have very damaging effects.” ’ ’   Oliver said that he ”warned a few months ago that there will come   a point when Theresa May and British ministers will just be   sitting there with their heads in their hands, wondering what to   do. It’’s happened. ’ ’   ”Donald Trump doesn’’t have a   doctrine  —   he has a   highly impulsive worldview,” Oliver added. ”The White House has   now allowed that impulse to be fired at Britain.” ’ ”President Donald Trump’s explosive claims of. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’