’  ’ ’   President Donald Trump, confronted about  that he had been   wiretapped by his predecessor, told German Chancellor Angela   Merkel during a Friday news conference, ”At least we have   something in common, perhaps.” ’ ”   The jab was a reference to reports in 2013 that said the National   Security Agency, under President Barack Obama, had been   intercepting Merkel’s phone calls and spying on German officials.    at the time that the NSA had been using   the US embassy in Berlin as a listening station. ” ’   Merkel  and demanded he explain the   reports, and Germany launched an investigation into the matter.   The White House denied that Merkel had ever been a surveillance   target, and the . But  later said that it was  for friendly nations to spy on one   another. ’ ”   Trump made the comment as the White House faced a  related to Trump’s allegations against   Obama. On Thursday, White House press secretary Sean Spicer    that said a   British intelligence agency, the Government Communications   Headquarters, or GCHQ, conspired with Obama to wiretap Trump   before the election. ” ’   The accusation was first leveled by Andrew Napolitano, a former   judge, on Fox News. ’ ’   Spicer’’s comment prompted a   reaction from GCHQ,   which released a rare public statement categorically denying any   involvement and calling the accusation ”utterly ridiculous.” ’ ’   ”Recent allegations made by media commentator Judge Andrew   Napolitano about GCHQ being asked to conduct ’’wiretapping’’   against the then   are nonsense,” the statement   read. ”They are utterly ridiculous and should be ignored.” ’ ’   When asked on Friday if the White House regretted accusing the UK   of helping Obama wiretap Trump Tower, Trump said that ”all we did   was quote” a Fox commentator, so ”you should be talking to Fox.” ’ ’   Fox released a statement on Friday saying that Napolitano stood   by his reporting, but Fox News host Shep Smith later said, ”Fox   News cannot confirm Judge Napolitano’’s commentary. ’ ’   ”Fox News knows of no evidence of any kind that the now president   of the United States was surveilled at any time, any way. Full   stop,” Smith said. ’ ’ ’ ’President Donald Trump, confronted. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’