’  ’ ”   Attorney General Jeff Sessions met with the head of Chicago’s   police department on Thursday, but reportedly made no specific   promises for federal financial aid, despite the city’s ongoing   gun violence crisis. ” ”   Sessions told police superintendent Eddie Johnson that his budget   for the next fiscal year had been cut and didn’t want to make   promises he couldn’t keep, attendee J. Thomas Manger, president   of the Major Cities Chiefs Association, told the . ” ’   Johnson was among several police chiefs to meet with Sessions on   Thursday, largely discussing how the federal government could   assist departments in dealing with gun violence and repeat   offenders, Manger said. ’ ”   The White House released its  on Thursday, which   detailed cuts to the Justice Department and the Homeland Security   Department’s grant program to police departments, which some city   officials have already begun expressing concerns about. ” ’   New York Police Department Commissioner James O’’Neill  Thursday that President Donald   Trump’’s homeland security budget cuts would eliminate ”virtually   all” federal funding to the NYPD and leave its counterterrorism   efforts ”hobbled.” ’ ”   Chicago’s police department had planned to ask Sessions for more   federal prosecutors, and more agents from the Bureau of Alcohol,   Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives; Drug Enforcement   Administration; and FBI, to help crack down on gang violence and   gun crimes, Chicago Police  before   the meeting. ” ’   Trump has repeatedly held up Chicago as an example of what he   describes as inner cities overrun with violence. He even  in January that he would ”send in the   Feds” to fix Chicago’’s gun violence crisis, to which  replied ”just send   them.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Overall, Sessions’’ meeting with police chiefs was   ”productive,” afterward. ’ ’   ”We talked about things specifically related to Chicago, and I   think that we both want to be flexible   …     We need to reform, and   we agreed to work collaboratively to reform CPD,” Johnson said. ’ ’   Sessions also indicated he supported the DOJ’’s civil rights   division and the department’’s responsibility to ”hold police   accountable,” Manger told the Tribune. ’ ’   Advocates of police reform have been fearful of the impact   Sessions could have on federal efforts to address civil rights   abuses by police. Sweeping investigations and ”consent decrees”   aimed at overhauling local policing practices were hallmarks of   the Obama administration’’s Justice Department, but Sessions has   vowed to ”” on such efforts. ’ ’   The DOJ had released a damning report detailing ”systemic   deficiencies” and constitutional violations within Chicago’’s   police department  —   but Sessions dismissed much of the     report as ”anecdotal” rather than ”scientifically based.” ’ ’Attorney General Jeff Sessions met with the. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’