’  ’ ”   Rex Tillerson made his first trip to Asia this week as secretary   of state, and there’s been some confusion as the press   scrambles to keep up with him and get enough access to report   what’s going on. ” ’   Much of the coverage of the trip has focused on how little access   journalists who report on the State Department have had. Members   of the press have been very vocally complaining because only   one reporter, from the conservative Independent Journal Review,   is traveling with Tillerson. ’ ”   Some reporters, like MSNBC’s Andrea Mitchell, have been   using commercial airlines to follow Tillerson’s travels but   have not been traveling with him. ” ’   And the Independent Journal Review reporter, Erin McPike,   initially did not file stories (or even tweet) from the   trip. (This course of action was reversed by IJR early Saturday   morning. McPike filed a spot story and started to tweet in    ). ’ ’   Several Washington, DC, bureau chiefs from prominent news   organizations sent a letter to the State Department saying   they’’re ”deeply concerned” about the whole arrangement. ’ ’’ ”   The lack of access has led to some confusion about   Tillerson’s status throughout the trip. ” ’   The Korea Herald  Friday   that Tillerson didn’’t have a lunch or dinner gathering scheduled   with South Korea officials and that ”the US side opted not to   have a meal together, citing the secretary’s ’’fatigue. ’’” ’ ’   The story gathered steam when The Washington Post’’s Glenn   Kessler    it, writing Tillerson ”cut short” his trip to South Korea.   Bloomberg foreign policy reporter Nicholas Wadhams    explaining Tillerson didn’’t cut his trip short and there was   never a dinner on the schedule. ’ ”   In subsequent tweets, Wadhams    that Tillerson hadn’t left Seoul yet, and that while the   traveling press, including Bloomberg, the Associated Press,   Reuters, and NBC News, were not in a press pool, they were   staying in the same hotel as Tillerson and staff. ” ’   But there have been difficulties  —   Wadhams  the   traveling press ”couldn’’t keep up” because Tillerson flew into an   air force base that morning. Since reporters aren’’t on his plane,   they’’ve had to book their own travel. ’ ’   ”Up until now, secretaries of state have made it a key demand   that our press corps gets into meetings   …     that there be access   for the media,” MSNBC’’s Mitchell  recently  . ”A key component of foreign policy   is being undercut by this.” ’ ”   Moreover, the reporters who followed Tillerson to Asia   haven’t been allowed into some events. Fox News  in South Korea, but other reporters were   blocked. A local embassy official told reporters that it was   Tillerson’s decision. ” ’   CNN’’s Jake Tapper  that Tillerson not bringing press on the trip was   ”insulting to any American who is looking for anything but a     version of events.” ’ ’   Tillerson made major news on the trip when he  that if North Korea elevated ”the threat of their   weapons program to a level that we believe requires action,” a   military response from the US would be on the table. ’ ’   President Donald Trump  with a tweet saying North Korea   had been ”behaving very badly” and that China had done ”little to   help.” Tillerson heads to China next on his trip. ’ ’   Despite the controversy over the trip, Scott Snyder, a senior   fellow for Korea studies at the Council on Foreign Relations,   cautioned against making any judgment on the success or failure   of the trip too soon. ’ ’   ”I know there’’s a lot of swirl about all this and obviously the   difference in style between Tillerson and his predecessors has   brought a lot of attention,”  ”but in terms of what he’’s accomplishing   it’’s a little bit too early to make a judgment.” ’ ”   And Trump’s tweet, which some viewed as a further escalation of   tensions, could even be a good thing for Tillerson. ” ’   ”Trump knows Tillerson is out there,” Snyder said. ”Tillerson is   perceived to be kind of marginalized in a way, and a few timely   tweets on issues that Tillerson is immediately working on, in a   way, it provides good news for Tillerson.” ’ ” Editor’s Note: This story has been updated to note that   McPike filed a story early Saturday morning and started to tweet   from the trip. ” ’Rex Tillerson made his first trip to Asia this. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’