’  ’ ”   During Friday’s press conference with German Chancellor Angela   Merkel, President Donald Trump repeated the big idea about trade   that has been floating around his White House lately. ” ’   Trump told Merkel and the press that Germany had gotten the   better end of the stick in trade deals with the US in the past   and that he was looking to rectify that situation. ’ ’   ”The negotiators for Germany have done a far better job than the   negotiators for the United States,” he said. ”But hopefully we   can even it out.” ’ ’   We know what ”even it out” means, and it is an absurd notion. It   means negotiating a bilateral trade deal with Germany and somehow   ignoring the rest of the rest of the European Union. ’ ”   Of course, that can’t happen. The US has to negotiate with the EU   as a whole. ” ’’ ’   Merkel made sure to remind Trump of that fact  —   literally saying,   ”The European Union is negotiating those agreements for all of   the member states”  —   after having told reporters she was ”deeply   convinced” that the EU is integral to the success of Germany’’s   economy. ’ ’   ”The success of Germany . .. has always been one in where the   German success is one side of the coin, and the other side of the   coin is European unity,” she said. ’ ”   Of course, what Merkel says about it doesn’t matter in a White   House that is gripped by the delusion that Germany can just tell   the EU to take a hike  —   at least, it will be gripped by this for   as long as that policy is directed by Trump’s trade head, Peter   Navarro. ” ’   Navarro, in a  this month, said Germany ”uses the   argument” of being in the eurozone to avoid trade deals with the   US, and that because of this Germany would be ”one of the most   difficult trade deficits we’’re going to have to deal with.” ’ ”   Navarro has gone as far as to accuse Germany of being a currency   manipulator for using the euro. He thinks that because countries   with weaker economies than Germany’s are factored into the euro’s   value, Germany can sell its manufactured goods more cheaply than   it could if it had its own currency. ” ”   Obviously, that’s not currency manipulation. That’s just the   reality of the euro’s makeup. ” ’   But it means Merkel faces a scenario in which the president of   the United States and his top trade adviser think one of their   closest and most important allies is lying to them about its need   to respect the EU. Trump and Navarro think this is a choice   Germany is making about the US, not an obligation that is part of   the fabric of its political and economic systems. ’ ”   To be fair  —   and this is where we see fragmenting in the White   House  —   some members of Trump’s economic team, like Commerce   Secretary Wilbur Ross, have said they understand Germany isn’t a   currency manipulator. ” ”   But that isn’t enough. The last thing we need is a White House   that is irrationally angry at Germany, an important ally, because   it’s pushing for a trade deal that cannot realistically happen. ” ”   It’s bad enough when presidents unnecessarily anger the US’s   enemies. We don’t need one who unnecessarily aggravates its   friends, too. ” ”During Friday’s press conference with German. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’