’  ’ ’   FBI Director James Comey and NSA Director Mike Rogers took to   Capitol Hill Monday to testify during what became essentially two   separate hearings before the House Intelligence Committee. ’ ”   Democrats on the panel were focused on drawing connections   between President Trump, his campaign, and Russian interference   in the 2016 election. Their Republican counterparts appeared to   wage war on the leakers of classified information to the press,   particularly those who provided the information that led to   Michael Flynn’s ouster as   adviser. ” ’   In a number of circumstances, Democrats and Republicans both used   their opportunities to ask questions of Comey and Rogers to enter   lengthy statements into the record that neither director could   provide answers to. ’ ”   At its conclusion,  of the FBI’s ongoing   investigation  —   which started in July, he said  —   into potential   connections between the Trump campaign and the Russian government   officials who worked to manipulate the election. ” ’   Comey also asserted that the entire Department of Justice was   unable to find any evidence that backed up  illegally wiretapped him before Election Day, claims   from which White House press secretary Sean Spicer later said the   administration, and the president, were not backing down. ’ ’   Rep. Adam Schiff of California, the ranking Democrat on the House   Intelligence Committee, used his opening statement to list a   number of connections that tie the Trump team to Russia in some   way. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Democrats asked Comey and Rogers about a number of people with   connections to Trump: Paul Manafort, Carter Page, Michael Caputo,   Michael Flynn, Rex Tillerson, and Roger Stone among them. The   directors almost always answered with a variation of the   following: ”No thoughts,” ”I don’’t,” and ”I can’’t.” ’ ’   Rep. Devin Nunes of California, the chair of the committee, said   the panel doesn’’t have ”any evidence” of collusion between Trump   officials and Russia. And fellow Republicans frequently cited a   statement made by former Director of National Intelligence James   Clapper, who said he had no evidence of such collusion. Clapper   responded later Monday, saying he could not account for   subsequent intelligence that was gathered after he left his post   at the onset of the Trump administration. ’ ’   For Republicans, backing up Trump’’s earlier attacks aimed at   leakers of information pertaining to the     controversy hanging a cloud over the early days of his   administration to media outlets such The New York Times and The   Washington Post was at the top of the agenda. Earlier in the   morning, Trump  on Twitter: ”The real   story that Congress, the FBI and all others should be looking   into is the leaking of Classified information.” ’ ’   ”Must find leaker now!” he said. ’ ’  ’ ’   As Rep. Chris Stewart of Utah said late in the hearing, the   leakers are ”arrogant” and ”cowards” who ”hide behind some New   York Times reporter.” ’ ’   ”I hope you crack them on the head,” he said to Comey and Rogers,   later adding that classified leaks happen far too often. ’ ’   In an exchange with Rep. Tom Rooney of Florida, Rogers answered a   sustained line of questioning about who in his organization would   have the authority to ”unmask” Flynn’’s identity, with Rooney   citing a Washington Post story that listed nine intelligence   officials it said spoke to the outlet on the matter. ’ ’   And Rep. Trey Gowdy of South Carolina, who gained national   prominence as the leader of the House Select Committee on the   Benghazi terror attack, offered some of the most intense   questioning related to punishment for those who leak information   to the press, which Comey said is ”a serious crime.” ’ ’   At one point, Gowdy even asked if there was ”an exception in the   law for reporters who want to break a story,” suggesting   reporters who write stories on the basis of classified, leaked   intelligence may be criminally liable. ’ ’   ”I know the department struggled with it, the Fourth Circuit   struggled with it, lots of people have struggled with it but   you’’re not aware of an exception in the current dissemination of   classified information statute that carves out an exception for   reporters?” Gowdy asked. ’ ’   ”No, I’’m not aware of anything carved out in the statute,” Comey   responded. ”I don’’t think a reporter’’s been prosecuted certainly   in my lifetime though.” ’ ’   Carl Bernstein, the famed Watergate reporter who now works for   CNN,  to slam the ”hypocrisy” of   ”decrying classified ’’leaks. ’’” ’ ’   ”I can state   that many intel members now decrying   ’’leaks’’ of classified info have themselves ’’leaked’’ classified   info knowingly,” he wrote, adding, ”Hypocrisy re these members      both    decrying classified ’’leaks’’ in context of   this hearing remarkable.” ’ ’   He also specifically targeted Gowdy. ’ ’   ”Prime example of wholesale classified ’’leaking’’ to press by   members of congress (and hypocrisy): Gowdy Committee Benghazi   investigation,” he wrote. ’ ’   But the episodes helped create fodder for Spicer during his   Monday briefing. ’ ”   As he was answering a question related to Comey’s revelation   about the ongoing FBI investigation into potential ties between   Trump and Russia, the press secretary cited the testimony related   to the leaking of information. ” ’   ”A lot of things that aren’’t being covered in this hearing that I   think are interesting,” he said. ”A lot of areas that still need   to be covered.” ’ ’FBI Director James Comey and NSA Director Mike. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’