’  ’ ’   WASHINGTON (Reuters)   U. S. House Republicans are working on   changes to their healthcare overhaul bill to provide more   generous tax credits for older Americans and to add a work   requirement for the Medicaid program for the poor, U. S. House   Speaker Paul Ryan said on Sunday. ’ ’   Ryan said Republican leaders still plan to bring the healthcare   bill to a vote on the House of Representatives floor on Thursday.   Speaking on the ”Fox News Sunday” television program, he added   that leaders were working to address concerns that had been   raised by    Republicans to the legislation. ’ ’   ”We think we should be offering even more assistance than the   bill currently does,” for   people age 50 to 64, Ryan   said of the tax credits for health insurance that are proposed in   the legislation. ’ ’   Ryan also said Republicans are working on changes that would   allow federal block grants to states for Medicaid. ’ ’   Even as Ryan said he felt ”very good” about the health bill’’s   prospects in the House, a leading conservative lawmaker told the     ”Newsmakers” program that there were currently 40   Republican ”no” votes in the House. Republicans hold a majority   in the chamber but cannot afford to have over 21 defections for   the measure to pass. ’ ’’ ’   Representative Mark Meadows, the chairman of the hardline   conservative House Freedom Caucus, said the bill would   “absolutely not” pass the way it is now. ’ ’   Meadows, a North Carolina Republican, also said the changes being   considered for the Medicaid program would not go far enough, if   they left it up to states to decide whether to put in place a   work requirement. ’ ’   An optional work requirement for Medicaid would be “a step   backwards, not a step forwards,” Meadows said in an appearance on    ’’s ”Newsmakers.” ’ ’   If the healthcare bill were to pass the House, it also would face   significant challenges in the Senate. ’ ’   Senator Tom Cotton, a conservative Arkansas Republican who has   been a critic of the legislation, said that the problem with the   legislation was that it would not reduce premiums for people on   the private insurance market. Lawmakers need to slow down and   solve this problem, he said. ’ ’   “It’s fixable, but it’s going to take a lot of work,” Cotton said   on CNN’s “State of the Union. ” ’ ’   Moderate Republicans have also expressed concerns about the bill. ’ ”   Speaking on NBC’s Meet the Press, Republican Senator Susan   Collins of Maine said she was concerned about a report from the   Congressional Budget Office that said 14 million people would   lose health coverage under the House bill over the next year and   24 million over the next decade. ” ’   (Editing by Caren Bohan and Phil Berlowitz) ’ ’WASHINGTON (Reuters)   U. S. House Republicans. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’