”   A Democratic congressman asked FBI Director James Comey and   NSA Director Mike Rogers to respond in real time to   President Donald Trump’s tweets, which attempted to   favorably spin the pair’s testimony from Monday’s   congressional hearing regarding Russia’s interference in the   2016 election. ” ’   During ans directly altered vote tallies   in key states Trump won. Rogers answered that there was ”nothing   generated by the NSA” to suggest there was direct hacking of   voting machines. ’ ’   The president’’s Twitter account quickly shared the response in a   short clip, tweeting equivocally: ”The NSA and FBI tell Congress   that Russia did not influence electoral process.” ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tThe NSA and FBI tell Congress that Russia did not influence electoral process.  ’ ”   But the clip took Nunes and Rogers’ response out of context, a   point Democrats were quick to point out. ” ”   Rep. Jim Himes, a Democrat from Connecticut, later read   Trump’s tweet to Comey and Rogers and asked them to   correct the record. ” ’   ”I asked you whether the intelligence community had   undertaken any sort of study to determine whether Russia   interference had any influence on the electoral process and I   think you told me the answer was no,” Himes said, referring to   questions earlier in Monday’’s hearing. ’ ’   ”That’’s correct,” Comey said. ’ ’   ”I’’ve got a tweet from the president an hour ago,” Himes said,   reading the tweet. ”That’’s not quite accurate, that tweet?” ’ ’   After saying he hadn’’t ”been following anyone on Twitter” during   the hearing, the FBI director reaffirmed the agency did not study   whether Russian interference affected the outcome of the 2016   election. ’ ’   ”It’’s hard for me to react to that, let me just tell you what   we’’ve said is. We’’ve offered no opinion, have no view, have no   information on potential impact, because it’’s never something   we’’ve looked at,” Comey said. ’ ’   ”So it’’s not too far of a logical leap, that the assertion that   you have told the Congress that there was no influence on   the electoral process, is not quite right,” Himes asked. ’ ’   ”It certainly was not our intention to say that today, because we   do not have any information on that subject,” Comey replied.   ”That’’s not something that was looked at.” ’ ’   Himes then asked about a separate video  slamming the   unmasking of   individuals involved in intelligence investigations. ’ ’ ’ ’NSA Director Rogers tells Congress unmasking individuals endangers national security. ’ ’   ”My understanding was, as a member of the committee, that there   is a lengthy and very specific process for the unmasking, but it   does not inherently of itself endanger national security,” Himes   asked after reading the tweet. ’ ’   ”I assume the comment is designed to the leaking of such   information,” Rogers said. ”But again, I have not read what you   are saying to me, so I’’m not in a position to comment on it.” ’ ’   Though they attempted to avoid politicizing the   investigation further, Comey and Rogers on Monday appeared   to rebut several Trump claims. ’ ’   Comey confirmed that the FBI had no evidence suggesting President   Barack Obama wiretapped Trump, which the president accused his   predecessor of doing, without evidence, earlier this month. And   Comey said law enforcement officials were investigating   potential links between top Trump campaign figures and the   Russia government. ’ ’A Democratic congressman asked FBI. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’