’  ’ ’   After the Trump administration  on carrying electronic devices larger than a   cellphone in the cabins of   airplanes coming from eight   Middle Eastern and African countries, experts were left   questioning whether such a ban would actually be effective in   preventing terrorist attacks. ’ ’   The US Department of Homeland Security announced the ban, which   applies to nonstop flights originating from 10 airports in   Jordan, Egypt, Turkey, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Morocco, Qatar, and   the United Arab Emirates, on Monday evening. Passengers will have   to place all electronic items larger than a cellphone in their   checked luggage so the devices cannot be accessed  . ’ ’   ”Evaluated intelligence indicates that terrorist groups continue   to target commercial aviation and are aggressively pursuing   innovative methods to undertake their attacks, to include   smuggling explosive devices in various consumer items,” a senior   administration official said on a call with members of the media. ’ ’   David C. Gomez, a retired FBI counterterrorism executive and   senior fellow at George Washington University’’s Center for Cyber   and Homeland Security,  that the ban ”ignores the realities of terrorist   behavior” because passengers could simply ”fly to London, Paris,   Amsterdam and switch carriers” to reach the US. ’ ’   ”If truly a threat, why allow devices to be stowed in luggage and   then placed in cargo hold?” Gomez .   ”That seems counterproductive.” ’ ’   Andrew Lebovich, a North Africa expert and visiting fellow at the   European Council on Foreign Relations, made a similar point,      ”Does the administration think terrorists can’’t take flights on   American carriers?” ’ ’   ”Perhaps there’’s an unknown or secret logic,” Lebovich .   ”But as presented and reported, this electronics ban makes   absolutely no sense.” ’ ’   Lebovich also said the ban was ”going to make a number of     whose support we need in various ways very, very   unhappy.” The US partners to fight terrorism with some of the   countries included in the ban. ’ ’   Paul Cruickshank, the    of the Combating Terrorism   Center Sentinel at West Point,    it was ”unlikely” that terrorists could get laptop bombs past       detection systems. He pointed to  published in the CTC Sentinel last year that said   ”layered     detection systems that are now in place   at most airports in the developed world make it very hard for   terrorists to sneak bombs onto planes.” ’ ’   Still, the article noted that the ”largest vulnerability facing   the global aviation sector today” comes from the fact that ”many   airports in the developing world . .. lag in deploying       machines, rigorous training, and best practices”   and that terrorist groups could ”recruit airport insiders in both   the developed and developing worlds who either are likely to   receive less scrutiny from fellow airport staff at security   checkpoints than passengers or can evade screening altogether.” ’ ’   But Cruickshank said that if a bomb could escape detection in     luggage, it could escape detection in checked luggage as   well. ’ ’   ”Trump admin yet to explain why laptops will be allowed in hold   but not cabin in new ban,” he .   ”Same explosive detection tech used for both.” ’ ’   Cruickshank    this suggested that the concern was over devices that manually   detonate, though timer devices contained in luggage in an   airplane hold could pose a threat as well. ’ ’   Some speculated that the ban could have underlying effects on   business. Tom Pepinsky, a   professor at Cornell   who focuses on the political economy,      Middle Eastern airlines that would be affected by the   ban, like Emirates and Etihad, were ”of course the main threat”   to legacy carriers’’ international business travel. ’ ’  ’ ’   Tech experts also questioned the wisdom of the ban. ’ ’   Bruce Schneier, a security technologist,  that the ban was an ”onerous travel   restriction.” ’ ’   ”From a technological perspective, nothing has changed between   the last dozen years and today,” he said. ”That is, there are no   new technological breakthroughs that make this threat any more   serious today. And there is certainly nothing technological that   would limit this newfound threat to a handful of Middle Eastern   airlines.” ’ ’   Nicholas Weaver, a researcher at the International Computer   Science Institute at the University of California at Berkeley,   also expressed skepticism. ’ ’   ”It’’s weird, because it doesn’’t match a conventional threat   model,” he told The Guardian. ”If you assume the attacker is   interested in turning a laptop into a bomb, it would work just as   well in the cargo hold. If you’’re worried about hacking, a   cellphone is a computer.” ’ ”   Business travelers coming from other destinations in the Middle   East and Asia and connecting through major hubs like Dubai in the   United Arab Emirates to get to the US might now want to switch   their routes, experts said, which could affect Middle Eastern   airlines’ business. ” ’   ”For nearly any int’’l destination without direct flights from US   (think Jakarta, Nairobi, Islamabad),” these Middle Eastern   airlines ”are almost always better,” Pepinsky . ’ ’   The airlines are faster, cheaper, and have much nicer service,   Pepinsky .   But he added that ”there is no way a traveler will check a laptop   on such flights, esp. business travelers.” ’ ’   ”This is a major blow to long haul ME airlines’’ business model,   which is obviously not about flying people to Abu Dhabi or Doha,”   he . ’ ’   About 50 flights a day will be affected by the ban. ’ ’  ’ ’   The Department of Homeland Security cited the attempted downing   of  in February of   last year in which a terrorist managed to sneak a ”sophisticated   laptop bomb” past   scanners in Somalia as an example of the   threat the directive is attempting to counteract. ’ ’   The department also pointed to  that   killed all 224 people on board along with recent terrorist   attacks  and . ’ ’   Rep. Adam Schiff, the ranking Democrat on the House Intelligence   Committee, released a statement Tuesday expressing support for   the ban, citing recent intelligence. ’ ’   ”As ranking member on the Intelligence Committee, I am   continually briefed on the changing threat climate and the most   recent intelligence on how our enemies may attack us and our   friends and allies,” Schiff said in the statement. ”Over the   weekend, I received an additional briefing by the Department of   Homeland Security, and I fully support the new security   precautions implemented by the Department over the weekend.” ’ ’   He continued: ”These steps are both necessary and proportional to   the threat.” ’ ’   Schiff added that terrorists were trying to use ”creative ways to   try and outsmart detection methods.” ’ ”   Trump administration officials have acknowledged, however, that   the new measures aren’t based on any specific or credible threat   of imminent attack,  The New York Times. But there are concerns about   gaps in foreign airport security. ” ’   Part of this concern is based on ”insider threats” at airports  —     the CTC Sentinel cited the example of the MetroJet flight in   Egypt, onto which a mechanic is thought to have smuggled a bomb.   The terrorist group ISIS claimed responsibility for destroying   the aircraft. ’ ’   Thomas Joscelyn, a terrorism expert and senior fellow at the   Foundation for the Defense of Democracies,    Al Qaeda had ”been experimenting with sophisticated explosives   that can be brought on planes, avoiding   detection, for some   time.” ’ ’   He  that he warned Congress that Al Qaeda could ”plant   sophisticated explosives on Western airliners” in testimony last   month. ’ ’After the Trump administration announced a ban. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’