MANILA  —   President Rodrigo Duterte of the Philippines, who nurses a longtime grudge against the United States, has declared he wants “a separation” and on Wednesday added that he wants American troops out of his country in two years. Speaking in Tokyo, Mr. Duterte said he was willing to revoke the 2014 agreement letting the Pentagon use five Philippine military bases, a critical component of the Obama administration’s plan to bolster American influence in Asia. “I want them out,” he said of the American troops in his country. While his threats have tapped a deep strain of resentment among Filipinos who feel as if they are treated like a   ally, the country’s deep cultural, economic and military ties to the United States make it unlikely that they will follow him on the path to divorce. Especially not, as Mr. Duterte suggested in Beijing last week, all the way to China. “Practically every family here has a relative in the U. S.,” said Roilo Golez, who served as national security adviser to former President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo. “They don’t dream of going to China and living there. ” The close relationship between the Philippines and the United States, while complicated and at times acrimonious, has existed for more than a century, and the Philippines has been the closest American ally in the region for 70 years. Mr. Duterte’s vow to upend that kinship has frustrated even some of his supporters. “I voted for him, but I’m not sure what he is doing right now,” said Jess Custodio, 56, a bank executive in Manila. “It is baffling to me. It would tear out the heart of many Filipinos to separate. ” The bonds with the United States run wide and deep. About four million Filipinos and   live in the United States, and the money they send home to relatives is a mainstay of the Philippine economy. Another major sector of the economy  —   call centers, largely serving American companies  —   employs more than one million Filipinos. Partly because of the high level of English spoken in the Philippines, the industry is one of the   segments. American movies, music, fashion and consumer goods are popular here. In an earlier era, Filipinos working in the United States would send “balikbayan boxes” filled with    American food and gifts. Now, shopping malls are packed with   clothes, cosmetics, appliances, foods and other products. More Filipinos hold a favorable view of the United States than even Americans do, 92 percent compared with 82 percent, according to a 2015 survey by the Pew Research Center. Whenever the Philippines has been included by Pew in surveys dating back to 1999, more Filipinos have had a favorable view of the United States than people in any other country. That support extends to the military, where there is considerable backing for the partnership with the United States, especially the assistance that American forces have provided in combating extremists in the southern Philippines. Many Filipino military officers were trained in the United States, and the two nations have staged joint military exercises for decades. “President Duterte risks creating a lethal combination of adversaries if he moves to truncate the alliance with the United States,” said Ernest Z. Bower, the president of the consulting firm BowerGroupAsia. “He would alienate his military, which wants the help of the U. S. ” The military has at times played a major role in political affairs and has twice sided with civilian protesters in ousting presidents. The talk of separation has also caused anxiety among some foreign businesses, which may become more cautious in investing or expanding operations here, analysts said. Mr. Duterte seems aware of the risks. Perhaps out of concern for the need for military support, he has made numerous speeches at military bases around the country since taking office in June. And after he returned from Beijing last week, he sought to soften his call for separation. He did not mean cutting diplomatic relations, he explained, which would not be feasible. “Why?” he asked. “Because the Filipinos in the United States will kill me. ” The Obama administration did not respond directly to Mr. Duterte’s latest threat, but the White House repeated its concerns about what it called his unhelpful rhetoric. The administration has sought to play down the prospect of a rupture in the alliance, in part because officials are not yet certain whether Mr. Duterte’s comments will translate into lasting policy changes. The White House press secretary, Josh Earnest, said on Wednesday that the threats “contribute to some uncertainty, and that uncertainty is inconsistent with what has for the last seven decades been a   alliance that’s benefited people and governments in both countries. ” To Mr. Duterte, those seven decades are largely about abuse and exploitation. His foreign minister, Perfecto Yasay Jr. recently said the Philippines must shake off the “invisible chains” of being the Americans’ “little brown brothers. ” The United States took the Philippines from Spain in 1898, inheriting Spain’s war against Muslim rebels who were seeking independence. Fighting continued for decades in the southern Philippines, where Islamic rebels still operate today. In 1906, American troops massacred about 600 people  —   including rebels, women and children  —   who had taken refuge in the Bud Dajo volcanic crater on the island of Jolo. Mr. Duterte, responding recently to American criticism of his deadly antidrug campaign, complained that the United States had never apologized for the slaughter. When Japan occupied the Philippines during World War II, Gen. Douglas MacArthur famously returned to drive out the Japanese forces. Many Filipinos still see him as a hero. The United States granted the Philippines independence after the war. Since then, the countries have maintained close economic ties and a strong military alliance, including a mutual defense treaty that dates from 1951. Another low point in the relationship resulted from Washington’s support for the dictator Ferdinand Marcos. After his ouster in 1986, the Philippines adopted a new constitution banning foreign military bases, which led to the eviction of American forces from Clark Air Base and Subic Bay Naval Base. Relations later recovered, and the 2014 agreement allowed the United States to maintain a small force on five Philippine military bases. It was that agreement that Mr. Duterte threatened to cancel on Wednesday. His policy shift has put Japan, another important ally of the United States in Asia and the Philippines’ largest trading partner, in the delicate position of trying to retain a balance in an increasingly tense region where Japan fears any further tilt toward China. In a meeting on Wednesday, Mr. Duterte and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan discussed the importance of both the alliance between Japan and the United States and the alliance between the Philippines and the United States. If the Philippines is the most   country in the world, the   view has a strong constituency as well. Even among the military, there are complaints that the United States often provides outdated hardware,     . “Duterte has indeed tapped into a deep and atavistic frustration of many Filipinos that the U. S. approach to their country has been paternalistic,” Mr. Bower said. “These feelings are real, and sharpened by the coexisting affinity for U. S. culture, brands and people. ” The resentment focuses not just on historical slights. Mr. Duterte has said he was motivated in part by his lingering anger over the 2002 case of Michael Terrence Meiring, an American who was seriously injured when a bomb exploded in his hotel room in Davao City, where Mr. Duterte was then mayor. Soon after, Mr. Meiring vanished from his hospital room. Mr. Duterte has long said he believed Mr. Meiring was a terrorist spirited away illegally by American operatives to avoid a trial on criminal charges. Only recently have American officials begun speaking publicly about the case. Ambassador Philip Goldberg said in a television interview on Tuesday that he understood the president’s concern but that he believed that no laws were broken. “He was transported by international air ambulance with no stop order, no arrest order, for further treatment because his family wanted to make sure his life was saved and wanted advanced medical care,” Mr. Goldberg said. For all Mr. Duterte’s talk, the United States has not received any request to curtail programs, reduce cooperation, cut aid or sever ties, the embassy here said. But if Mr. Duterte’s goal was to receive more attention from Washington, he has succeeded. Assistant Secretary of State Daniel R. Russel, a top State Department official, visited Manila this week and met with Mr. Yasay. Afterward, Mr. Russel told reporters that the United States fully supported the Philippines’ having an independent foreign policy and welcomed a reduction in tensions between Manila and Beijing. But he also cautioned that confusion created by Mr. Duterte’s comments was “bad for business. ” “The succession of controversial comments, and a real climate of uncertainty about the Philippines’ intentions, has created consternation in many countries, not only in mine, and not only among governments,” he said. “There is growing concern in other communities and the expat Filipino community, in corporate board rooms as well. That’s not a positive trend. ” Mr. Duterte responded true to form on Tuesday, lashing out at the American business community before leaving for Japan. “Go ahead, pack your bags,” he said. “We will sacrifice. We will recover, I assure you. ”