’  ’ ’   Sen. John McCain told MSNBC on Wednesday that Congress does not   have the ”credibility” to conduct an independent investigation   into what connections, if any, President Donald Trump’’s campaign   had to Russian officials during the election. ’ ”   McCain’s comments came after House Intelligence Committee   chairman Devin Nunes made the highly unusual decision on   Wednesday to bypass his   Rep. Adam Schiff, and brief   Trump directly on a report he said he had been given that Trump’s   transition team had been legally surveilled after the election. ” ’   ”This is a bizarre situation,” McCain told Greta van Susteren.   ”I’’m calling for a select committee because I think this      shows that Congress no longer has the credibility   handle this alone. And I don’’t say that lightly.” ’ ’   McCain is not the first Republican senator to call for a special,   bipartisan investigation into Trump’’s Russia ties. Sen. Lindsey   Graham said in February that he would be open to the Senate   ”forming a Select Committee to look at all things related to   Russia.” ’ ’   Nunes, a California Republican, held a press conference after he   briefed Trump on Wednesday where he indicated to reporters that a   FISA (Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act) warrant had been   obtained to monitor foreign agents on US soil, and that some of   Trump’’s associates had been caught up in surveillance   ”incidentally.” ’ ’   The collection occurred on ”numerous occasions,” he said, and was   not related to the FBI’’s investigation into Russian meddling in   last year’’s presidential election. Some have questioned whether   Nunes, in appearing to confirm the existence of a FISA, disclosed   classified information. ’ ”   Schiff held his own press conference afterward, expressing   surprise over Nunes’ decision to bypass him and go straight to   Trump. ” ’   ”This is not the way an investigation should be conducted,”   Schiff said. ’ ’   McCain said the episode ”shows a tremendous chasm between the two   senior members of the House Intel Committee.” ’ ’   Trump, who tweeted over two weeks ago, without presenting   evidence, that President Barack Obama had had his phones   ”wiretapped” at Trump Tower, told reporters on Wednesday that he   felt ”somewhat” vindicated by Nunes’’ information. ’ ’   ”I very much appreciated the fact that they found what they   found,” Trump said. ”I somewhat do.” ’ ”   Nunes said later, however, that he still had no evidence to   support Trump’s claim that Obama had ever wiretapped him. ” ’   ”That did not happen. I’’ve said this for many, many weeks,   including the day after, a couple days after, in front of the   press. That never happened,” Nunes said. ’ ’   When asked about Trump’’s comment, McCain told van Susteren that   he has ”>long ago given up on trying to interpret the remarks   of the President of the United States.” ’ ’ ’ ’. on   probe: “No longer does the Congress have credibility to handle this alone”  —  FTR ’ ’Sen. John McCain told MSNBC on Wednesday that. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’