’  ’ ’   President Donald Trump said he felt ”somewhat” vindicated by   House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes’’ announcement   on Wednesday that he had seen reports that the intelligence   community had ”incidentally collected” information about Trump’’s   transition team. ’ ’   Asked at the White House if he felt vindicated, Trump said: ”I   very much appreciated the fact that they found what they found. I   somewhat do.” ’ ’   Nunes, a California Republican, said during a brief press   conference that the collection occurred on ”numerous occasions”   and was not related to the FBI’’s investigation into Russian   meddling in last year’’s presidential election. ’ ’   ”Details about US persons associated with the incoming   administration, details with little or no apparent foreign   intelligence value, were widely disseminated in intelligence   community reporting,” Nunes said. ’ ”   But in a later press conference outside the White House, where he   had briefed the president on his findings, Nunes did not stand by   Trump’s claim that President Barack Obama wiretapped phones at   Trump Tower  —   an accusation he has stuck by without providing   evidence. ” ’’ ’   ”No, no, no, no,” Nunes said. ”That did not happen. I’’ve said   this for many, many weeks, including the day after, a couple days   after, in front of the press. That never happened.” ’ ’   However, he said he could not be sure whether Obama had ordered   any surveillance of Trump during the transition period between   November and January. He also said he had ”no idea” whether the   collection of information about the transition team was   intentional spying on behalf of the government. ’ ’   ”We won’’t know that until we get to the bottom of did people ask   for the unmasking of additional names in President Trump’’s   transition team,” he said. ’ ’   In his earlier press conference, Nunes  he believed the information   was collected legally under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance   Act. He said he did not know if the surveillance consisted of   phone calls, but that the intelligence reports he had seen   ”clearly show” Trump and his team were ”monitored.” He added that   the White House was unaware of the information he was providing   to the media. ’ ”   Nunes, who was a member of Trump’s transition team himself, is      investigation into Russia’s effort to manipulate the 2016 US   presidential election. ” ” FBI Director   James Comey  that the bureau had been   investigating potential ties between the Trump campaign and the   Russian government since late July. Comey also said the   Department of Justice could provide no evidence to back up   Trump’s explosive claim that Obama wiretapped him. ” ’   In his press conference outside the White House, Nunes was asked   whether it was inappropriate to brief the president on   information that could be related to an ongoing investigation   into members of his administration and campaign team. ’ ’   Nunes said he did not believe so. ’ ’   ”Because what I saw had nothing to do with Russia and nothing to   do with the Russian investigation,” Nunes said. ”It has   everything to do with possible surveillance activities, and the   president needs to know these intelligence reports are out there,   and I have a duty to tell him that.” ’ ’   Nunes did not answer a question about whether he was trying to   give the president ”political cover” for the unproven wiretapping   claim by making his revelations public. ’ ’   Nunes said he and Trump discussed the concerns ”that I had with   incidental collection and how it relates to his transition team.”   Nunes said he hoped to have more information on the subject by   Friday. ’ ’   ”I’’m not drawing any conclusion,” Nunes said. ”I’’m just telling   the president what exists in the intelligence reports. ’ ’   ”What I’’ve read seems to me to be some level of surveillance   activity, perhaps legal, but I don’’t know that it’’s right,” he   added. ”But let us get all the reports. . .. I think the president   is concerned, and he should be. I think he’’d like to see these   reports.” ’ ’   Evan McMullin, a former CIA operative who ran an independent   presidential campaign in 2016, said that with Nunes saying the   communications were ”incidentally collected,”  ”Who was Trump talking to?” ’ ’   ”If what Devin Nunes says is true, Trump was communicating with   persons of intelligence or criminal interest,” . ”This is Devin Nunes doing President Trump and   Congressional Republicans a favor by muddying the waters on the     investigation.” ’ ’   John Weaver, the chief strategist for Ohio Gov. John Kasich’’s   2016 presidential campaign,  that it seemed as if Nunes ”could be leaking   classified information left and right” by discussing the   intelligence reports publicly. ’ ’President Donald Trump said he felt ”somewhat”. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’