’  ’ ’   Uber could say goodbye to Seattle if drivers in the city   unionize as a result of a new law that recently took   effect, according to .  ’ ”   One option on the table is leaving Seattle entirely if it   finds it can’t operate, said Brooke Steger, Uber’s Pacific   Northwest General Manager, during a Public Relations Society of   America event, according to GeekWire. ” ’   ”hink us leaving a big city like Seattle, one of our first   cities, has some pretty serious effects and there’s some deep   concerns for the drivers here as well.” ’ ”   Uber’s uncertainty about its operations stems from a       city ordinance that the   company   has been actively fighting. The ordinance, which was passed in   2015 and went into effect in January, allows Uber drivers who   work as independent contractors to join unions and negotiate pay   and compensation like employees. ” ”   Currently under the ordinance, only drivers who have given more   than 52 rides in a   period over the last year are   eligible to join the unions. Uber has sued the city to try to   block certain portions of the law and to expand who gets a vote.   Last week, a Washington judge  dealing another blow to Uber’s defense. ” ’’ ’   Now, an April 2 deadline looms for when the   company   would have to turn over driver contact information to Teamsters   Local 117, the union . The ordinance is still facing   legal opposition  and a group of about a   dozen drivers who . ’ ’   ”I honestly feel bad that drivers are caught up in the middle of   this and that they’re being used as a pawn in this game of unions   and Yellow Cab trying to get Uber out of the city,” said Steger,   the Uber GM. ”To me, they’re the most important part of our   business and they’re the most important people in this city.” ’ ”   There’s certainly precedent for Uber leaving a city after it   passed regulations the company didn’t like. Both Uber and Lyft   pulled out of Austin in May 2016 after the city required the   companies to perform fingerprint background checks on drivers.   Neither company has returned to Austin since. ” ”   Uber hasn’t issued an ultimatum or decided on the future of its   operations yet. But if the   company doesn’t want to   deal with the unions, Uber might have to put Seattle in its   rearview mirror as well. ” ’Uber could say goodbye to Seattle if. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’