Hillary Clinton worked to campaign past the revived controversy around her email server on Sunday, casting herself as a resilient fighter as Donald J. Trump intensified his sweeping claims of corruption in the American justice system. The announcement by James B. Comey, the F. B. I. director, of a new review of emails that may be linked to Mrs. Clinton overshadowed the candidates’ usual messages over the weekend. The news threw Mrs. Clinton and the Trump campaign into an unexpected debate over both her emails and Mr. Comey’s conduct, though only scant information has been made public about the substance of the F. B. I. ’s activities. Campaigning in Florida, Mrs. Clinton appeared to group Mr. Comey’s surprise role in the presidential race with the flurry of partisan attacks that often mark the last days of political campaigns. Without mentioning Mr. Comey by name, Mrs. Clinton struck a defiant note at a nightclub in Wilton Manors, she invoked her mother’s admonition to “never, ever quit. ” “We won’t be distracted, no matter what our opponents throw at us,” Mrs. Clinton said. “We’re not going to be knocked off course. We know how much this election matters, and we know how many people are counting on us. ” At a black church in Fort Lauderdale, Mrs. Clinton urged voters to turn out in force to vote in order to reject “a negative, hateful, bigoted vision” on the other side of the race. If Mrs. Clinton has aimed to stifle interest in her emails, Mr. Trump has seized on Mr. Comey’s announcement with exuberant glee. At a rally on Sunday in Colorado, Mr. Trump called the disclosure a “big bombshell” and predicted it would lift him in the polls. Having spent months criticizing both Mr. Comey and the Department of Justice for deciding not to press charges against Mrs. Clinton for her use of a private email server, Mr. Trump redirected his attack on Sunday, going after Attorney General Loretta Lynch. Mr. Trump accused Ms. Lynch of corruption for failing to indict Mrs. Clinton, claiming without evidence that Ms. Lynch had likely interfered with an investigation in the hope of retaining her job in a Clinton administration. “Effectively, you’d call that a bribe, wouldn’t you?” Mr. Trump asked at a speech in Las Vegas. Mr. Trump’s closest advisers stopped well short of his provocative claim. But on the Sunday news programs, allies of Mr. Trump, including his running mate, Gov. Mike Pence of Indiana, attempted to sow deeper doubts about Mrs. Clinton’s trustworthiness without explicitly attacking the justice system. Still, both sides  —   having scant information about what, exactly, Mr. Comey’s new review might entail  —   offered more insinuations than arguments with Election Day just nine days away. The code word for Mr. Pence was “troubled”  —   a term he used freely on television to raise the notion, if not quite an accusation, that prosecutors had gone easy on Mrs. Clinton. “I’m one of millions of Americans that were troubled by that  —   why there’s this double standard when it comes to the Clintons,” Mr. Pence said on “Meet the Press” on NBC. “I mean, no one is above the law. ” And for Mrs. Clinton’s allies, the word of the day was “puzzled”  —   the descriptor top Clinton surrogates wielded repeatedly as they implied, without quite saying, that Mr. Comey had staged an unforgivable political intervention late in the presidential race. “It’s just extremely puzzling,” said Senator Tim Kaine of Virginia, Mrs. Clinton’s running mate, on “This Week” on ABC. “I just have no way of understanding these actions. They’re completely unprecedented and that’s why I think he owes the American public more information. ” The stakes of the clash, muddled as it is, are plainly higher for Democrats: Mrs. Clinton had led consistently in polls ahead of Mr. Comey’s announcement, and appeared close to having a firm lock on the 270 Electoral College votes required for victory. Only a late plot twist, it seemed, might be capable of undoing her advantage. It is unclear whether Mr. Comey’s actions could amount to such an unforeseen turn. Mr. Comey, who notified Congress on Friday that information from a separate case prompted the fresh review of Mrs. Clinton’s emails, has not offered any additional comment on the matter. Government officials have described the F. B. I. ’s new information as emerging from an investigation into allegations that Anthony D. Weiner, a former congressman married to Huma Abedin, one of Mrs. Clinton’s closest aides, exchanged sexually themed messages with a teenager. Clinton allies repeatedly accused Mr. Comey of breaching Justice Department protocols by commenting on a confidential inquiry so close to an election, and expressed bewilderment at his conduct. Robby Mook, Mrs. Clinton’s campaign manager, adopted the same phrasing, describing the campaign as “so puzzled” by Mr. Comey’s actions. He lamented that Mr. Comey had opened the floodgates to wild speculation by offering such a nonspecific announcement. “The issue here is, if he doesn’t come out and get all the information on the table, he’s going to let anyone  —   any conspiracy theory  —   take the day,” Mr. Mook said on “Meet the Press. ” But Mr. Mook said he did not expect the F. B. I. director’s unusual action to cost Mrs. Clinton the election. On the contrary, Mr. Mook said Mrs. Clinton was faring well in early voting and could lock down one or more swing states, starting with Nevada, before Election Day. A smattering of new polling information released on Sunday painted a mixed picture of the race in its final days, with Mrs. Clinton consistently holding an advantage but of uncertain size. It is likely too soon to see any direct effect from Friday’s events, casting additional uncertainty over the importance of the latest revelations. Still, an ABC   Post tracking poll showed Mrs. Clinton’s advantage nationally slipping to just one percentage point, in a dramatic narrowing over the past week. And a New York   College poll showed Mr. Trump retaking the lead in Florida. But polling from NBC News and The Wall Street Journal, conducted by Marist College, found Mrs. Clinton faring better in Florida, ahead of Mr. Trump there by one point, and leading him by six points in North Carolina. Mr. Trump is spending several of the few days left in the race campaigning well outside the traditional band of states that decide presidential elections. He was campaigning on Sunday in New Mexico and plans on Monday to be in Michigan  —   two solidly blue states where polling has shown Mrs. Clinton with a clear lead.