”Samsung’s big Galaxy S8 event on March 29th is fast approaching, and we’re excited to see how the company will follow up on one of the best smartphones of 2016, the Galaxy S7.” ”We’ve heard a bunch of rumors surrounding the Galaxy S8 by this point, so we went ahead and rounded up the most credible leaks and rumors in one place, cutting out the rumors that seem like a long shot.” ’Check out what we think Samsung has in store for us with the Galaxy S8:  ’ ’ ’ ’’ ”According to  the Galaxy S8 phones will have narrower borders than the Galaxy S7 phones. A slew of photo and video leaks, like Blass’ photo leak in the first rumor of this list, appear to support this rumor, too.” ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’We expect Samsung to release two differently sized models of the Galaxy S8, just like it did with the Galaxy S7.’ ’To further fuel our own speculation, Korean news site  citing local news outlet  claimed in a report that Samsung will come out with two models of the Galaxy S8 with different screen sizes. The larger model is said to be called the Galaxy S8 ”Plus. ”’ ’ ’ ”Also according to  (via ) Samsung is apparently planning on making the Galaxy S8’s screen larger than the Galaxy S7 phones.” ’It claims the regular Galaxy S8 will have a 5.  screen, and the larger model will have a 6.  screen. ’ ’To compare, the regular Galaxy S7 has a 5.  screen and the Galaxy S7 Edge clocks in at 5. 7 inches.’ ’’ ’Gadgets leaker Steve Hemmerstoffer, better known from his Twitter handle @OnLeaks,  on Twitter that compares the rumored size of the Galaxy S8 against other popular smartphones.’ ’From the looks of it, the Galaxy S8 and Galaxy S8 Plus will be larger than their predecessors, and fairly large overall. ’ ’The Galaxy S8 might not have a physical home button.’ ’The home button may be embedded underneath the front glass panel, according to a leak posted on Chinese social media site, . If so, it could look and work similarly to the new home button on  (pictured above).’ ’That means it could react to touch rather than using a mechanical button you need to physically press down. ’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ”According to  Samsung will add the Galaxy S7’s incredibly fast   feature to the front camera of the Galaxy S8. ” ”If so, it means no tapping on faces to make sure the camera focuses correctly. That means you can take faster selfies, and they’ll be better photos overall.” ”According to  the Galaxy S8 will use a new chip from Qualcomm called the Snapdragon 835. Certain models destined for certain countries could use a version of Samsung’s own Exynos chip.” ’Apparently, other smartphone makers like LG were unable to obtain the Snapdragon 835 because Samsung placed such large orders of the chips for the Galaxy S8.’ ’Samsung itself  that its smart voice assistant, called  will feature in the Galaxy S8.  ’ ”One rumor from  that Samsung didn’t specifically mention in its Bixby announcement is that the virtual assistant will have its own set of eyes by tapping into the phone’s camera.” ”Instead of asking Bixby about something, you could potentially show it what you want to search for with the S8’s camera. It’s an interesting prospect, as neither Siri, Alexa, or Google Assistant are tied into any cameras or camera technology.” ”On one hand,  claims the Galaxy S8 won’t come with a headphone jack. On the other,  allegedly for the Galaxy S8, suggest that it will feature a headphone jack.” ”It’s a tough one to call, even when we’re so close to the Galaxy S8’s launch. So far, only the iPhone, Motorola Moto Z, and HTC’s U Ultra phones have ditched headphone jacks to a mixed reception.” ”We’re inclined to think that Samsung will keep the headphone jack on the Galaxy S8.” ”Yes, there are benefits to ditching the headphone jack, like forcing people to go wireless (which is a good thing). At the same time, it potentially means buying new wireless headphones or using a dongle adapter for your old wired headphones, which isn’t ideal.” ’Samsung released the Galaxy Note 7 with   which could indicate that the company is transitioning from microUSB to   at least with its flagship devices.’ ’  is the new standard that is slowly replacing microUSB for charging and data transfers. It can charge mobile devices faster than regular microUSB (without Quick Charge technology) but it can also be used to transfer data and stream video to external monitors as well.’ ’’ ”Again, this is pure speculation, but we’d be surprised if Samsung deviates too far from the Galaxy S7’s camera, which is considered one of the best cameras you can find on a smartphone. ” ”The Galaxy S7’s camera even beat the newer iPhone 7’s camera in .” ”There’s talk about the Galaxy S8 coming with a feature that’s similar to  which lets you plug in a Windows Phone to a monitor to use a light version of Windows 10 with a keyboard and mouse. The first hints of this came from  where the concept was seen during a Samsung presentation.” ’If the Galaxy S8 really does support   the ability to connect the phone to an external monitor could be a very real possibility.’ ’According to  Samsung will include an eye scanner in the Galaxy S8 similar to the one found in the Galaxy Note 7.’ ”Another report from  also claims that the Galaxy S8 will have a facial recognition feature to unlock the phone, too. Apparently, it will be so   that it’ll  according to South Korean news outlet, The Investor.” ’With the Galaxy Note 7, the eye scanner allowed you to unlock your phone as well as certain apps and folders, for extra security. ’ ”Samsung sent out press invitations for an event on March 29 in New York City, where there’s little doubt that the company will announce the Galaxy S8. We’ll be at the event, which starts at 11am ET on Wednesday, so make sure to tune into BI.” ”Samsung’s big Galaxy S8 event on March 29th is. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’