’  ’ ”   President Donald Trump seems to be realizing, belatedly, that   writing Democrats off put him at the mercy of Republicans in   Congress. If he can’t get nearly all Republicans to agree on   something, he can’t have it. ” ’   Despite being an  he put himself in quite a weak   negotiating position, which is sad! ’ ”   So Trump is talking up his desire to deal with Democrats on   healthcare and infrastructure, giving him an additional possible   counterparty if Freedom Caucus Republicans won’t play ball. ” ”   But I don’t think Trump has realized how much he’d have to give   up,   to make Democrats willing to work with him.   Democratic voters hate Trump. If Democrats are going to cut deals   with him, they’re going to have to be confident they can go home   and show their voters they got the best of the negotiation. ” ”   And he definitely hasn’t realized that being a jerk makes it   harder to get both Republicans and Democrats to do what   he wants. ” ’’ ”   It’s possible to imagine a different opening to Trump’s   administration that would have put him in a much stronger   negotiating position. ” ”   He could have started with infrastructure and tax reform instead   of health care. He could have made good on  offering them an   infrastructure package they would have found tempting, even if it   came packaged with tax cuts. He could have sprung this on   Republicans at a time when they didn’t feel empowered to stand up   to Trump. ” ”   But he didn’t do those things. ” ”   Now, Republicans in Congress are annoyed with the president,   sniping at each other, and no longer so afraid of what can happen   when Trump tweets. They’ve defied him once and survived  —   why not   do it again? Democrats smell blood in the water, and are much   more inclined to deny Trump assistance and enjoy his failures   than to work constructively with him. ” ”   Trump didn’t just fail disastrously to make a deal on healthcare.   He put himself in a position where his counterparties   distrust and disrespect him even more than they used to,   jeopardizing his ability to make deals in the future, too. ” ”   We’re hearing a lot of different things this week about what the   White House will do next: They’re on to tax reform; they’re going   to tax reform and infrastructure at the same time; healthcare   reform actually isn’t dead, they’re still working on it;   Democrats will deal on healthcare once they realize Obamacare is   unsustainable. ” ”   At the same time, we’re hearing lots of recriminations: The   Freedom Caucus saved Planned Parenthood; Democrats killed the   bill through their obstructionism; you should all watch this    of Judge Jeanine. ” ”   The recriminations are more telling than the spitballing.   Trump would like to do all sorts of things, and   he’d like Republicans and Democrats to help him. But both parties   are less inclined to work with him than they were two months ago,   and instead of kissing up and making nice, he’s lashing out. ” ” and  have both written about a Jimmy Carter model   for the Trump presidency: As under Carter, high hopes for a     presidency give way to a breakdown in   relations between Congress and a   president of the   same party who diverges in key ways from the party’s   mainstream. ” ’   In this analogy, Trump is Carter, only angrier, dimmer, less   popular, much more out of his depth, and lacking in moral   authority. ’ ”   It’s all a recipe for an administration that makes a lot of noise   but generates very few policy accomplishments. ” ’   Sad! ’ ’President Donald Trump seems to be realizing. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’