’  ’ ’   The leaders of the Senate Intelligence Committee spoke at length   on Wednesday, conveying one major point during a press conference   about the investigation into Russian interference in the 2016   election: Their committee was not descending into the chaos that   enveloped their House counterpart for the past week. ’ ”   Republican Sen. Richard Burr of North Carolina, chair of the   Senate Intelligence Committee, and Democratic Sen. Mark Warner of   Virginia, the committee’s ranking member, were forceful in   playing up the bipartisan nature of their investigation during   the press conference. ” ’   When Burr, who called the investigation”one of the biggest”   Congress has seen in his    tenure on Capitol Hill, was   asked about his past support for Trump, including his past role   as an adviser to his campaign, the North Carolina senator joked   that he would ”do something I’’ve never done.” ’ ’   ”I’’ll admit that I voted for him,” he said. ”But I’’ve got a job   in the United States Senate. And I take that job extremely   seriously.” ’ ’   ”It overrides any personal beliefs that I have or loyalties I   might have,” he continued. ”Mark and I might look at politics   differently  —   we don’’t look at the responsibilities we have on   the committee differently. And that’’s to earn the trust and   respect of the intelligence community so they feel open and good   about sharing information with us, because that enables us to do   our oversight . .. that much better.” ’ ’   Warner jumped in, adding that he has ”confidence” that the     committee will ”get to the bottom of this.” ’ ’   ”And . .. if you get nothing else from today, take that statement   to the bank,” he said. ’ ’  ’ ”   As Burr and Warner stood next to each other answering questions   about their committee’s investigation, House Intelligence   Committee Chair Devin Nunes continued his defense of meeting on   the White House grounds with a source to get information   pertaining to potential surveillance of President Trump and his   team, a move that many said delegitimized the integrity of the   House investigation into Russia. ” ”   Nunes and committee Democrats  disputing assertions made by   the other side regarding their investigation’s process. Prominent   Democrats, and now even a Republican congressman, have called for   Nunes to recuse himself from the investigation, which he has   insisted he would not do. ” ’   Before last week, Nunes and Ranking Democrat Adam Schiff did   press conferences in the style of Burr and Warner, standing   alongside each other. But that veneer of bipartisanship vanished   after Nunes first went to the press alone to disclose the     information last week, without presenting it to the   rest of his committee. ’ ”   For the two senators, Wednesday’s press conference could not have   stood in starker contrast to the investigation taking place in   the House. ” ’   ”We will get to the bottom of this,” Warner said. ”Richard and I   have known each other a long time. And the chairman and I have   serious concern about what the Russians have done and continue to   do around the world.” ’ ’   Burr said the leaders ”can’’t say enough what the mission of the   Senate committee is.” ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Which is to look at all activities that Russia might have taken   to alter or influence the 2016 elections in the United States,”   Burr continued. ”In addition to that, the mission of the   committee is to look at any contacts [either campaign had] with   Russian government, Russian government officials, that might have   influenced in any way shape or form the election process.” ’ ’   ”We take that very seriously,” he added. ”It’’s not something that   can be done quickly.” ’ ’   The North Carolina Republican promised his committee would look   ”anywhere intelligence suggest there might have been any type of   relationship or effort to influence US elections.” ’ ’   Asked about whether he could definitively rule out any collusion   between the Trump team and Russian officials, Burr said it was   ”crazy to try to draw conclusions” at this stage of the   investigation, adding that it is unwise to share updates on a   ”  ” basis because those bits and pieces are ”not   always accurate” once further intelligence is uncovered. ’ ’   The House investigation, for the past week, has seemingly been   operating in a way where such ”  ” revelations are   being made, starting with Nunes’’ first briefing with reporters   last week. Burr said his committee would not be asking the House   to play ”any role in our investigation” and ”we don’’t plan to   play any role in their investigation.” ’ ’   Warner insisted that a bipartisan approach is a must for an   investigation that has, in many respects, become infected with   partisanship elsewhere. ’ ’   ”If we don’’t come to some joint conclusion . .. I think we will   not have fulfilled our duty,” he said, later adding, ”We’’re going   to get it right.” ’ ’The leaders of the Senate Intelligence. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’