’  ’ ’   Samsung announced its next big smartphones,  on   Wednesday. As expected, both devices come with big displays,   super thin bezels, and     specs. They . ’ ”   Perhaps the most curious bit of news, though, isn’t about the   phones so much as it is an accessory that supports them: the DeX. ” ’   Short for ”desktop extension,” it’’s a little dock that   effectively turns the Galaxy S8 or S8 Plus into a desktop   computer. ’ ’   So if you wanted to finish a Word doc you started typing on the   bus, for instance, you could pop the Galaxy S8 into the DeX, hook   up a Bluetooth keyboard and mouse, and continue on the bigger   screen. ’ ’   When everything is connected and the DeX is plugged into a   monitor, the phone stretches out its Android skin to look like a     PC platform. It seems pretty clean. The DeX itself   has ports for   HDMI, Ethernet, and the older USB 2. 0, and   comes with a cooling fan to keep your phone from overheating. You   can still connect to the web over LTE. ’ ’  ’ ”   Samsung’s browser, email, calendar, and other apps have been   reworked to fit the more spacious screen, but the company says   it’s also getting Microsoft and Adobe to adapt their Office and   Lightroom apps, respectively, to the nonmobile environment. ” ”   Samsung isn’t saying how much the DeX will cost or when it’ll be   available, but  have said it could cost €150 in   Europe. So it could be pricey. Given that the Galaxy S8 isn’t   cheap, Samsung is pitching the DeX as a neat,     extra for Galaxy diehards more than as a   core aspect of the phone. ” ”   That’s probably for the best. Samsung is just the latest in a   string of tech companies that have tried to sell phones that can   also be PCs. Thus far, none of them has taken off. ” ’   Tech people call this ”convergence,” or the idea that a single   gadget  —   in this case, the smartphone  —   can swallow all other   device types and become the One True Computer for whatever you   need. ’ ”   The thinking behind it makes sense: The smartphone is the most   popular way people access the internet, and the technology behind   it is only getting more powerful. Apple’s   of mobile   chips are at the point where you can at least put them in the    as an Intel desktop   processor, and last year  it can run its full   Windows 10 operating system  —   albeit partially through emulation    —   on a Qualcomm Snapdragon chip. The Galaxy S8 runs on the latest   and fastest  chip. ” ’  ’ ’   Meanwhile, more and more people are comfortable turning to     devices like tablets and Chromebooks to fill their   computing needs. If the phone is good and strong enough, why buy   two or three computers when you could have only one? ’ ”   It’s an attractive pitch  —   which helps explain why Samsung is far   from the first company to make something like it. Here’s a quick   history lesson: ” ”   While each of these projects has had its issues, the underlying   problem is that the software just wasn’t cooked enough to be a   full PC. ” ”   The DeX will work with the most popular devices to take on this   idea, but right now, it’s likely to have the same  :   Android isn’t quite there yet for bigger screens. You can run   multiple apps at once, but if an app isn’t designed for the DeX,   it’ll be displayed in a   or   window that isn’t   resizable. We’ve  before with Android apps   running on Google’s Chromebooks. ” ’  ’ ”   Even then, a lot of Android apps that are ostensibly   built for big screens  —   even Android’s Settings menu  —    with white   space aplenty. It’s a similar problem as what Samsung just ran   into with its  tablet: Google and Android   developers just haven’t cared about this use case, so the   experience has been sloppy. And Google seems to be  as its   platform   over Android. ” ”   Still, there are reasons to think things will get better. The   latest Android update, Nougat, made several concessions to larger   screens, such as allowing two apps to run side by side, and the   upcoming Android O  it’ll take that further, with   things like improved keyboard support. Google is making   Android on large screens a focus. ” ’   But here, you’’ll have to wait on Samsung to update its software   to take advantage of whatever comes next. And while Samsung says   it’’s working to have the DeX support ”many more” apps, the fact   that the dock is made for a small subset of Galaxy phones is   reason to doubt how many other developers will jump onboard. ’ ”   The DeX does have one trick that could get around Android’s   shortcomings. Samsung says it’s working with software companies   like Citrix and VMWare to let you run a virtualized (i. e.   streamed) version of Windows 10 off the phone. That would give   you a more   OS, but it’s a solution that hasn’t run   smoothly on past Windows phones. ” ”   We’ll have to test the DeX further to see how well this all works    —   and how much the Galaxy S8 can handle  —   but it’s best to think   of this as an   more than the next step for how   smartphones collide with the PC. It’s something the iPhone cannot   do. Still, it looks like Android would need to keep pressing   forward for Samsung to accomplish what Microsoft and Motorola   have failed to do. ” ’Samsung announced its next big smartphones, the. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’