’’ ”BlackRock, the world’s largest investor,  slashing fees on some funds and saying it will increasingly turn to computing power to drive investing decisions.” ’In doing so, the fund manager is tapping into several major trends in the professional   business as investors come under pressure to justify their fees and technology increasingly helps drive  .’ ’Among  that the $5. 1 trillion investor announced late Tuesday were:’ ’Active managers  —   portfolio managers who research and choose investments  —   have been under pressure to cut their fees in large part because of the rise of passive investing, which entails doing nothing more than tracking a market index.’ ’Stock pickers who have track records of beating the market over the long term are holding out, but with this move, BlackRock is giving in to market forces, Credit Suisse said in a research note:’ ’Credit Suisse says BlackRock now has less confidence in a business move it made five years ago. In 2012, BlackRock replaced about 80% of its investment staff, ”hiring   active equity managers from competing firms with strong track records,” the bank’’s analysts wrote.’ ’Today, BlackRock is less optimistic that active managers will ”consistently outperform passive after accounting for the higher fee levels,” according to the bank. ”Historical data has now proven that the average [portfolio manager]’’s performance is cyclical, and hiring the top performers over the last five years may not likely lead to strong performance over the next five. ”’ ’People like John Bogle, the founder of the   behemoth Vanguard, have long criticized active managers on these issues. Bogle told  that active managers were likely to lose against passive funds.’ ’”We’’re paying people to beat the market when they aren’’t doing it, and when you think about it, that doesn’’t make sense,” Bogle said.’ ”BlackRock’s said  that it hoped data would help its ailing   unit. On Tuesday, it said it was planning to integrate the data it collects globally and share it with every   team.” ”It’s also planning to roll out nine new mutual funds managed by its quant investment team. Those strategies rely on algorithms rather than fundamental,     to beat markets.” ’Active managers across the board have been  the best data scientists and get their hands on the latest, most differentiated data to improve their chances of beating markets and competitors. Hedge funds, in particular, have been tapping into   —   data that comes from the apps we use, the online shops we buy from, and the GPS tracking within our smartphones. This info helps investors figure out where to put their money and can give insight into how stocks will perform, which companies will continue to rake in cash, and which ones are likely to flop.’ ’Dan Loeb, one of the hedge fund industry’’s most famous   touched on this trend  too. Loeb said that parsing enormous data sets was ”increasingly important to remain competitive while investing in   equities. ”’ ”BlackRock, the world’s largest investor, just. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’