’  ’ ’   Congressional Republicans’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   But the state currently closest to expanding Medicaid is   Kansas, which sent  and now awaits a signature or veto from the staunch   conservative. It is unclear which option he will choose. ’ ”   While the bill has been in the works for several years, the   AHCA’s failure has stepped up the urgency, Kansas legislators and   interest groups told Business Insider. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   A recent study published by the Kansas Hospital Association, a   supporter of the bill,  ”vulnerable” to closure,   many of which are major employers in rural areas. Expansion could   be crucial to ensuring that they are able to stay   afloat,  ’ ’   Cyzman, the director of KAMU, said   clinics and   health centers are clamoring for the expansion because they   already treat 14% of Medicaid enrollees in addition to providing   $41 million in care to struggling populations that is never   compensated. Cyzman said conservative estimates suggest expansion   would bring anywhere from $9 million to 15 million back to   clinics in reimbursements, which could then be used to provide   even more care. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   The bill itself was written with congressional Republicans’   repeal efforts in mind. It includes several ”poison pill”   provisions. One stipulates that if the percentage of federal   matching funds for Medicaid drops below its current level of 90%   as the AHCA proposed, the expanded program in Kansas would be   eliminated,  ’ ’the executive   director of the Alliance for a Healthy Kansas, a grassroots   coalition of more than 100 interest groups spanning healthcare,   Chambers of Commerce, and city councils. ’ ’   ”We will gain hundreds of millions of dollars a year that can   make a profound impact not just on uninsured Kansans, but   protecting hospitals and jobs in these   communities,” he   told Business Insider. ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’   And if an Obamacare replacement bill isn’t passed for months or   years, Kansas would still benefit from the influx of federal   funds, advocates say. ’ ’   Still, some in the legislature, like Senate president Susan   Wagle, a Republican, say expanding the program ties Kansas   to ”the whims of the federal government.”  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’   While Bollier acknowledged that there are issues with the current   administration of KanCare, she said legislators are working to   rectify issues in the system and that voting no on the expansion   bill with that rationale a ”pretty lame excuse.” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”To expand Obamacare when the program is in a death spiral is not   responsible policy,” Brownback spokeswoman Melika Willoughby said   in a statement Monday. ”Kansas must prioritize the care and   service of vulnerable Kansans, addressing their health care needs   in a sustainable way, not expanding a failing entitlement program   to   adults.” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’Congressional Republicans’ failure to bring. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’