’  ’ ’   The ouster of many US district attorneys was expected with the   arrival of President Donald Trump. ’ ”   But Trump’s firing of Preet Bharara, the US attorney for the   Southern District of New York, threw turmoil into the   process. ” ”   Lost amid the furor around Bharara’s dismissal was the   resignation of Robert Capers, who led the attorney’s office for   the Eastern District of New York, based in Brooklyn. ” ”   While Bharara was known for his   Wall Street   prosecutions, the Eastern District has handled a number of   complex offenses  —   since September 11, no US attorney’s office    more terrorism cases. ” ”   In the weeks before Capers’ ouster, his office had begun pursuing      the vaunted Sinaloa cartel kingpin extradited to the US in the   hours before Trump was inaugurated. ” ”   Proceedings in Guzman’s case have been limited to  in a US jail and   his access to visitors and representation. After a February 3   hearing, his next court appearance was . ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Capers’ departure and the arrival of a new US attorney is also   unlikely to extend the expected duration of proceedings against   Guzman  —   who might not start his trial for a year or longer,   Vincent said. ” ’   The process to replace Capers looks set primed for political   intrigue. ’ ’   A number of past and present US prosecutors are reportedly   interested in the job, including  a Fox News personality and   friend of Trump confidant Rudy Giuliani, and  partner at the same law firm as   Giuliani and son of former US Attorney General Michael Mukasey. ’ ’   Trump transition officials  New York Rep. Peter King for   recommendations for certain jobs, like the Brooklyn US Attorney,   and the president is likely to seek input on the selection from   Giuliani. ’ ”   However,  to the New York Daily News, US   senators typically offer recommendations for US attorneys and   federal judgeships. New York’s senators, Chuck Schumer and   Kirsten Gillibrand, are both Democrats. ” ’The ouster of many US district attorneys was. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’