’  ’ ’   Elon Musk has just pulled off his dream of more than 15 years:   fuel up a used rocket booster, fire it off, then recover it for   yet another launch. ’ ’  ’ ”   SpaceX, Musk’s rocket company, launched one of its      Falcon 9 rockets at 6:27 p. m. EDT on March 30. The     rocket delivered a telecommunications satellite into orbit. ” ’   But the biggest moment came just minutes after launch, when the     booster fell back to Earth. ’ ’   The rocket’’s booster is the largest and ”most expensive part of   the rocket,” Musk said, and the one used Thursday had previously   launched and landed itself on April 8, 2016. ’ ’   Today that booster again detached from its payload, fell back to   Earth, and safely landed on a droneship in the Atlantic Ocean. ’ ’   The event marks the first time in history that any part of a   commercial,   orbital rocket has been successfully   recovered, reused, and recovered again. ’ ’   ”This is going to be a huge revolution for spaceflight. It’’s been   15 years to get to this point,” Musk said. (SpaceX was founded in   2002.) ”I’’m at a loss for words.” ’ ’ ’ ’   The main mission of the launch was to get a satellite called    into orbit more than 22, 000 miles above   Earth. From there, it will blanket much of Central America and   South America with internet and television coverage. ’ ’   But all eyes were on the   booster. ’ ’   Boosters ordinarily cost tens of millions of dollars to build,   yet always burn up, sink into the ocean, or crash into the ground   after helping to deliver a payload into orbit. ’ ’   Not so for the bottom halves of most      (  ) Falcon 9 rockets. Those boosters can touch down   on land or on a ship at sea. However, until Thursday SpaceX has   not yet   one to prove that its scheme works. ’ ’ a space policy expert and   historian at George Washington University’’s Space Policy   Institute, told Business Insider before the launch that the feat    —   now a fact  —   could be ”potentially revolutionary” since   reusing boosters could reduce the  of getting to space. ’ ’   ”Reusability has been the Holy Grail in access to space for a   long, long time,” Logsdon said. ’ ’  ’ ’   The booster for the   mission first fired off . It helped deliver  to the space station, screamed back to   Earth, righted itself, and  in the Atlantic Ocean. ’ ”   Reusing a rocket booster could save customers  on a $  Falcon 9 rocket launch, Gwynne   Shotwell, SpaceX’s COO, has said. The Falcon 9 is already the   most affordable   rocket system in the world, but   such a discount would save companies more than $18 million per   launch. ” ’   ”This mission . .. is the fundamental key demonstration,” Shotwell   said in a video before Thursday’’s launch. ”It will allow people   to live on other planets,” she said, referencing Musk’’s . ’ ”   Marcus Payer, the global communications director for SES (the   telecommunications company behind the new satellite) said the   deal to be a part of this historic launch came about . It was originally planned for later that   year, but SpaceX’s uncrewed  on September 1 and the  that followed delayed the   flight. ” ’   ”Wherever we can change the industry equation, we will do it. We   were waving our hands to be the first,” Payer previously told   Business Insider. ”We are not   otherwise we would not   be launching satellites.” ’ ”   Musk was elated by the rocket booster’s landing at the center of   a droneship. ” ’   ”We just had an incredible day today,” Musk said. ”Right in the   bullseye.” ’ ’Elon Musk has just pulled off his dream of more. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’