’  ’ ’   North Carolina  its controversial ”bathroom law” on Thursday,   following more than a year of outrage from Democrats, LGBT   advocates, and   leaders. ’ ’   But the bill that lawmakers replaced it with has liberal groups   even more furious. ’ ”   The new bill, House Bill 142, does away with the law that blocked   transgender people from using the bathrooms that aligned with   their gender identity, and curbed local governments’ ability to   pass LGBT protections. But it also ensures that all     measures must be handled by the state, and that   local governments can’t pass certain LGBT protections until Dec.   1, 2020. ” ’   The bill was introduced by the state’’s Republican leadership late   Wednesday night, and hailed as a ”compromise” by Democratic Gov.   Roy Cooper. The bill cleared both chambers of the legislature on   Thursday and was quickly signed into law by Cooper. ’ ’   ”This bill does nothing to repeal HB2,” said Human Rights   Campaign president Chad Griffin in a    with Equality North Carolina and the National Center for   Transgender Equality. ”Instead, it institutes a statewide   prohibition on equality by banning   protections   across North Carolina and fuels the flames of     hate.” ’ ’’ ’   ”Each and every lawmaker who supported this bill has betrayed the   LGBTQ community,” he added, vowing that his organization will   fight the law in court. ’ ’   ”This is a bait and switch,” chapter president William Barber   said in a . ’ ’   ”Any moratorium on civil rights is not a compromise, it is a   contradiction with the principle of equal protection under the   law and our moral values,” he added. ”We call on all those who   stand for justice to vote no on compromise and pass a clean, full   repeal of HB2.” ’ ’   ”North Carolina lawmakers should be ashamed of this backroom deal   that continues to play politics with the lives of LGBT North   Carolinians,” said James Esseks, director of the ACLU’’s LGBT   project. ’ ’   In the same  Simone Bell, a regional director of LGBT civil   rights group Lambda Legal, said the law still leaves her   community ”unprotected.” ’ ’   ”Lawmakers replaced a bad bill with another bad bill. This fake   repeal is an attempt to silence LGBT people,” she said. ”It is   shameful to stamp a start date on equality.” ’ ’North Carolina repealed its controversial. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’