CHICAGO  —   If the Chicago Cubs rally to win this World Series, the degree of difficulty will make the victory even sweeter. They would need to win three in a row from the Cleveland Indians, including two on the road, to make it happen. No baseball team has won quite that way since the 1979 Pittsburgh Pirates upended the Orioles in Baltimore. But there is a recent precedent in sports: The Cleveland Cavaliers trailed the Golden State Warriors, three games to one, in the N. B. A. Finals in June, only to storm back and win the title in Oakland. It would be a cruel kind of karma for the Indians to lose in roughly the same way the Cavaliers won. But after four games of this World Series, there is little to show that the Cubs are up for it. The Indians’ formula  —   timely hitting and a few great pitchers  —   offers a narrow pathway to victory, but the Cubs have opened the lanes for them three times. “It’s just been abnormal in some ways,” Cubs Manager Joe Maddon said, in a true understatement. The Indians carry 12 pitchers but basically rely on four, and yet they are one win from a championship. “They’ve been outstanding through the entire postseason, and you can see it,” Maddon continued. “We’re obviously having a tough time, like the other teams did. ” The Indians swept Boston in their division series, holding the Red Sox to a . 214 batting average. They won four of five from Toronto in the American League Championship Series, holding the Blue Jays to a . 201 average. Now, through four games in the World Series, the Cubs are hitting . 204. Remember, these are the Cubs: the team that rocked the game’s best pitcher, Clayton Kershaw, to win the pennant last weekend and outscored opponents by 252 runs in the regular season. The Red Sox had the   lead in run differential (184) in the majors, and the Blue Jays (93) ranked fifth. The old baseball adage rings true again. Good pitching (specifically from Corey Kluber, Andrew Miller, Bryan Shaw and Cody Allen) has throttled good hitting. Those pitchers have thrown 22 of the Indians’ 36 innings in this World Series, with a combined earned run average of 0. 82. The bonus was Josh Tomlin, who collected the first 13 outs of Game 3. Manager Terry Francona replaced him  —   during a   shutout  —   with Miller, who teamed with Shaw and Allen to preserve a   win on Friday. In Game 4, it was Kluber for six innings, Miller for two and, with a   lead, Dan Otero for one. Francona said Allen might handle the middle innings in Sunday’s Game 5, with Miller positioned to finish off the Cubs at the end. Francona was too polite to frame it that way, but the Cubs are wounded now, and easily teased into taking the bait of the Indians’ power breaking stuff. “They attack you, but I don’t even know if it’s that,” said the Cubs’ Kris Bryant, who is 1 for 14 with three walks. “You see Miller and Allen, they don’t walk a lot of people because they get a lot of chases. If we’re able to do that  —   lay off those sliders down and in  —   maybe we walk a little more. ” The Cubs led the majors in walks this season but have drawn just four in their three Series losses. They also have just one homer in the World Series, a solo shot by Dexter Fowler off Miller in the eighth inning Saturday. When asked if there was anything positive for the Cubs to take from Game 4, first baseman Anthony Rizzo cited that moment, with a rueful smile. “Yeah  —   Dexter hitting a home run off Andrew Miller, getting him to give up a run, finally, in the postseason,” Rizzo said. “But we lost. In the playoffs, a win’s a win, a loss is a loss. That’s tough. ” After the Cubs lost Game 3 of the National League Championship Series, falling behind two games to one to the Los Angeles Dodgers, catcher Miguel Montero said they needed to stop swinging for the fences and think smaller. The next night, a bunt single by Ben Zobrist started a rally that led to the first of three comfortable victories. Montero, a veteran who has not started in the Series, sounded a similar theme on Saturday. “We’re all trying to hit a grand slam with nobody on,” he said. “It’s not gonna happen. We need to be a little more patient at the plate, play a little small ball. We’re all trying to hit the ball 110 miles an hour off the bat  —   no. We need to get a ground ball through the hole. Simple as that. ” On Sunday, at least, the Cubs should have a decided advantage at the start, sending Jon Lester to the mound against Trevor Bauer, who lost Game 2 in Cleveland on Wednesday and has never pitched on short rest. But the Indians are changing the way to think about postseason games: If the starter falters  —   and sometimes even if he doesn’t  —   an overpowering bullpen can take over early. The strategy has helped pushed the Cubs to the brink of elimination at Wrigley Field, where the Tigers celebrated a title in Game 7 of the last World Series played here, in 1945. A party seven decades in the making on the North Side of this city has turned into a letdown, and only a   can save the Cubs now. “It’s fun for us to see the pictures of everybody outside, but we can’t get too caught up in that,” Bryant said. “Hopefully we win out, and the last four games will be forgotten. ” But the odds will be firmly against the Cubs. Since those 1979 Pirates, only the 1985 Kansas City Royals have climbed from a   hole to win the World Series  —   but they had the last two games at home. Over all, the last 10 teams to drop three of the first four games in the World Series have ended up losing.