’  ’ ”   The Department of Homeland Security’s ban on large electronics   has been in effect for a week. ” ’   The ban, which covers nine airlines, forbids passengers from   bringing any electronic devices larger than a cell phone into the   cabin of    in the Middle East and North Africa. ’ ’   The ban has been an unmitigated headache for the airlines and   their customers.  ’ ”   Business travelers and their laptops are   generally inseparable. Many passengers use time in transit   to work. The laptops might also contain sensitive or confidential   information companies don’t want getting out.  ” ’   The ban and resulting headaches have become a major concern for   the affected airlines because repeat corporate business travelers   and their immense spending power are their single most   important block of customers. ’ ’  ’ ’   As a result, several of airlines including industry heavyweights,   Emirates, Qatar Airways, Etihad, and Turkish Airlines have come   up with a series of work arounds to counter the ban. Based on the   latest rankings from the respected    these four airlines also   represent the       and     carriers in the world. ’ ”   Emirates, was the first of the major airlines to offer a response   to the conundrum. On March 23,  that will allow   passengers to use their laptops and tablets until it’s time to   board their   flights instead of checking them with their   luggage. ” ’   Prior to boarding, passengers hand over their laptops and other   electronic devices to staff members to who pack them in secure   boxes before storing them in the cargo hold. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Our aim is to ensure compliance with the new rules, while   minimizing disruption to passenger flow and impact on customer   experience,” Clark said in a statement. ”Our new complimentary   service enables passengers, particularly those flying for   business, to have the flexibility to use their devices until the   last possible moment.” ’ ”   Even though Emirates’ work around doesn’t quite offer a perfect   solution for the problem, it does mitigate a good portion of the   hardship created for passengers by the ban. ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tHand in your   during boarding to USA and use our free inflight WIFI service starting on March 31st.  ’ ”   Turkish Airlines has joined Emirates with a similar laptop   handling policy. According to Turkish, passengers’ electronic   devices will be packed in secure boxes at the departure gate.   Once in the US, the boxes will be returned to them by the   airline. To ensure security, airline employees will personally   return each box to its rightful owner by matching baggage tag   numbers. ” ”   In addition, Turkish Airlines announced on Twitter this week that   passengers who turn in their laptops and tablets at boarding   would receive free WiFi on board the flight.  Europe’s best airline six years in a row. ” ’  ’ ’   This week,  on flights to the US will have   access to complimentary WiFi and loaner iPads. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tAll the cool stuff happens on the internet anyway. Free   & iPads on our US flights. Learn more:    ’ ’   ”To help guests keep in touch with work, friends and family, we   are offering First & Business Class guests free WiFi and   iPads on all our   flights, beginning Sunday, April 2,”   Etihad said in an email to Business Insider. ”  vouchers will   be distributed by our cabin crew onboard, providing free     for the duration of the flight. In addition, we’ll have iPads   available for those that need them. Power and USB sockets at   every seat will help keep devices charged.” ’ ”   One day after Etihad’s announcement,  along with   an hour of free WiFi on all of its to the US. (Qatar’s     fleet does not offer a traditional first class cabin.) ” ’   ”By providing this laptop loan service we can ensure that our   passengers on flights to the US can continue to work whilst   ” Qatar Airways Group’’s CEO, Akbar Al Baker, said in a   statement. ”This unique ability to offer ’’business as usual,’’   above and beyond the competition, is yet another example of Qatar   Airways justification for being the ’’World’’s Best Business   Class. ’’” ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tIt’s ’Business As Usual’ on all United States flights with our complimentary Laptop Loan Service    ” ”   While Emirates’ program extends to all passengers, neither Etihad   nor Qatar Airways’ service are available for the economy cabin.   Emirates has also hinted that it, too, may offer laptop loans on   board its flight. However, the Dubai, United Arab     carrier has not made an official decision. ” ”   That’s because the airline does not yet have conclusive data on   the   effect the laptop ban will have on its business,   which according to Clark won’t happen until sometime in May. ” ’   For now, airlines are simply working to make the best of an   inconvenient situation. ’ ”The Department of Homeland Security’s ban on. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’