’  ’ ”   Democratic Sen. Jon Tester said Sunday that he would vote against   Judge Neil Gorsuch, President Donald Trump’s nominee for the   Supreme Court. ” ’   Gorsuch was ”a smart man,” Tester said  ”but that doesn’’t make him right for a lifetime   appointment to the US Supreme Court.” ’ ’   ”With Judge Gorsuch on the bench, I am deeply concerned that dark   money will continue to drown out the voices and votes of   citizens, the Court will stand between women and their doctors,   and the government will reach into the private lives of   citizens,” Tester continued.  ’ ’   ”These are not Montana values, which is why I cannot support this   nomination.” ’ ”   Tester’s statement didn’t reference the FBI’s   investigation into the Trump campaign’s ties to Russia, a talking   point some Democrats have used to justify blocking the Gorsuch   confirmation. It also made no mention of Merrick Garland,   President Barack Obama’s Supreme Court nominee whom   Republican leaders did not grant a hearing. ” ’’ ”   Democrats have vowed to filibuster Gorsuch’s confirmation,   and Republicans would need 60 votes to move forward  —     meaning at least eight Democrats would have to vote with them. ” ”   Republicans have already  three Democratic senators, who were facing   pressure from constituents in their     states: West Virginia’s Joe Manchin, North Dakota’s Heidi   Heitkamp, and Indiana’s Joe Donnelly. But Tester’s   opposition makes it  that the confirmation battle   could feature a fundamental change in US politics.  ” ’   If the filibuster holds, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell   could employ the ”nuclear option”  —   changing Senate rules to   allow nominees to be confirmed with a simple majority instead of   60. McConnell has expressed reluctance to do so, but hasn’’t ruled   out the option. ’ ’   ”Neil Gorsuch will be confirmed this week,” he said on ”Meet the   Press” Sunday. ”How that happens really depends on our Democratic   friends, how many of them are willing to oppose cloture on a   partisan basis to kill a Supreme Court nominee, never happened   before in history, the whole history of the country.”  ’ ’Democratic Sen. Jon Tester said Sunday that he. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’