’’ ’Tesla had a huge 2016. ’ ’Among other things, the company unveiled the  launched new  acquired  and revealed its new .’ ”And the company hasn’t slowed down in 2017. ” ’So far this year the company has changed its name from  started rolling out its latest Autopilot system, and raised more than to help it ramp up production for the Model 3. But CEO Elon Musk has a lot more planned for the company in 2017. ’ ”Here’s a look at everything we know so far about what Tesla plans to accomplish this year. ” ’In July of 2016, Musk revealed that . ’ ’At the time, Musk said in a  that once Tesla vehicles are fully autonomous, the company will set up a shared fleet program that enables owners to make money off their car by letting other people use it. ’ ”In October, the company said owners would only be able to use their  purposes, and that it would reveal more details about Tesla’s network in 2017. ” ’ ’ ’ ’ ’A  from LA to New York City by the end of 2017, Musk said during a press call.’ ’”I feel pretty good about this goal. We’’ll be able to do a demonstration guide of full autonomy all the way from LA to New York. So basically from home in LA to Times Square in New York. And then have the car go and park itself by the end of next year,” he said. ’ ’ ’ ’Tesla and its battery partner Panasonic  but the company plans to ramp up production ahead of its Model 3 launch. ’ ”The battery cells currently in production are being used for Tesla’s rechargeable home battery, Powerwall 2, as well as its massive commercial battery, Powerpack 2. ” ’However, Tesla said in a  in January that it aims to  its first   car, sometime in the second quarter.’ ’Producing the batteries at the Gigafactory will bring down costs, enabling the company to price its Model 3 at about $35, 000.’ ’SolarCity, which was acquired by Tesla in November, is slated to begin production of solar cells at its new manufacturing plant in Buffalo, New York this summer. ’ ’The company seems to be one track to meet this timeline. According to the  SolarCity has already started hiring plant workers. ’ ’While Tesla unveiled the Model 3 last March, the company has yet to reveal some important details about the car. ’ ”Specifically, the company has not yet revealed what the car’s interior will look like. And while we know the car will have a range of at least 215 miles, Tesla has hinted that it could be even greater.” ’Tesla plans to begin production of the Model 3   and plans to begin deliveries near the end of the year. ’ ”However, according to  any new orders won’t be delivered until 2018 or later. ” ”Musk has big plans to reinvent manufacturing at Tesla’s factories so that he can reach his goal of producing 500, 000 cars a year by 2018. ” ’In November last year,  a German engineering firm that specializes in designing systems for manufacturing automation to help it with this effort. ’ ’”As the machine that builds the machine, our factories are so important that we believe they will ultimately deserve an order of magnitude more attention in engineering than what they produce. At very high production volumes, the factory becomes more of a product than the product itself,” Musk said in a in November.’ ’Musk said the expertise the acquisition brings will help Tesla reach its goal of becoming the ”best manufacturer in the world. ”’ ’ ’ ’Tesla originally unveiled it .’ ”At the time, Musk said that the company plans to offer four types of shingles to match the aesthetic of a person’s home. Production for the shingles is expected to  at which time consumers will also be able to place orders for a solar roof. It’s also likely that  Musk said. ” ’In November, Musk said that Tesla plans to establish a combined vehicle and  in Europe, where both batteries and vehicles can be produced on site. Tesla plans to eventually have at least one, if not multiple, battery and vehicles facilities in Europe, he said. ’ ”However, it will likely be awhile before this hybrid factory becomes a reality. The company will begin  but it’s unclear when construction will actually get under way. ” ’Tesla had a huge 2016.  Among other. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’