’  ’ ”   Rep. Adam Schiff warned Americans on Sunday to be wary of   President Donald Trump’s attempts to dismiss the investigation   into Russia’s role in the 2016 election. ” ”   Speaking to CNN’s Jake Tapper, the ranking Democrat on the House   Intelligence Committee suggested that the White House likely   tried to manipulate the congressional investigation by passing   along documents to Rep. Devin Nunes, the Republican chairman of   the committee. ” ”   Nunes then said those documents may indicate that President   Barack Obama’s administration incidentally surveilled Trump’s   team, a claim for which . ” ’   After viewing the documents at the White House himself, Schiff   asked how administration officials knew the documents he viewed   were the same that were shown to Nunes. ’ ’   ”How does the White House know that these are the same materials   that were shown to the chairman, if the White House wasn’’t aware   what the chairman was being shown?” he asked. ’ ’   ”If these were produced either for or by the White House, then   why all the subterfuge? There’’s nothing ordinary about the   process that was used here at all.” ’ ”   Schiff added that he was suspicious of the president’s attempts   to undermine the credibility of the congressional investigations   into Russia’s involvement in the election. ” ’   ”It certainly is an attempt to distract and to hide the origin of   the materials, to hide the White House hand,” Schiff said. ”The   question is of course why? And I think the answer to the question   is this effort to point the congress in other directions.   Basically say ’’Don’’t look at me don’’t look at Russia, There’’s   nothing to see here. ’’” ’ ’   He added: ”I would tell people whenever they see the president   use the word ’’fake,’’ that should set off alarm bells.” ’ ”   Both congressional Democrats and some Republicans have criticized   Nunes’ handling of the House investigation into Russian   interference in the 2016 election and potential ties between   Russian officials and members of the Trump campaign. ” ’   After  that the   chairman said indicate Trump staffers may have been incidentally   surveilled, Nunes took the bizarre step of returning to the White   House the next day to brief administration officials without   consulting the House Intelligence Committee. ’ ’ saying he   is too close to the administration to run a fair investigation. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tWhen people see President Trump ”use the word ‘fake,’’ it ought to set off alarm bells,” says    ’ ’Rep. Adam Schiff warned Americans on Sunday to. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’