’  ’ ’   In school, we learn that hard work will get us ahead in life.   Work hard, earn more, get rich. ’ ’   But, ”that’’s only half the story,” says Ric Edelman, CEO of    one of the nation’’s leading financial advising   firms, and author of the new book ”” ’ ’   In fact, Edelman told Business Insider in  interview, ”If all you do in life is   work really hard, you’’re never going to get wealthy. Because it’’s   not enough that you work hard to make money to set some of it   aside.” ’ ’   Edelman says in order to ensure future wealth, you must ”equally”   work smart. ’ ’   Specifically, by investing. ’ ”   It’s an   concept. Take the game of Monopoly, for example.   If you’re simply rolling the dice and passing GO to collect your   paycheck, only to stockpile that cash, you’re going to get   crushed by your opponents who are strategizing to buy up   properties that will get the most returns. ” ”   That’s not so far from reality. Ultimately, the greatest   financial reward comes from working smart, Edelman said. That is,   taking advantage of  by investing so that your money earns money   on itself. ” ’   ”You will never achieve financial success if you put your money   into a bank account, or a CD, or a   or a muni bond, or an   annuity product,” he says. These types of accounts often offer   interest rates below 1%. ’ ’   Instead, you should be looking at the stock market, Edelman said,   which has had a historical average return rate of 10% since the   1920s. ”It’’s really easy to do and you can do this and generate   high   6, 7, 8, 9%  —   and that’’s all it takes to   enjoy the benefits of compound growth over many decades. ” ’ ’   Investing doesn’’t mean you have to risk it all. ”You can do this   without taking a huge amount of risk, you can do this without a   lot of effort, you can do this without a lot of time,” he said.   ”All you need to do is build a diversified mix of investments,   using     funds (ETFs) or mutual funds, and   build a diversified portfolio on a global basis,” he said, adding   that real estate is another great place to invest. ’ ”   The bottom line: Continually working harder won’t be enough in   the long run. But figuring out how to maximize the money you do   have . ” ’ ’ ’In school, we learn that hard work will get us. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’