’  ’ ”   Days before President Donald Trump’s inauguration, Blackwater   founder Erik Prince met with a Russian close to President   Vladimir Putin in the Seychelles islands to create a   communication   between Trump and Russia,  The Washington Post. ” ’   Officials with the United Arab Emirates brokered the January 11   meeting in the hopes of helping to encourage Russia to distance   itself from Iran, a major Kremlin ally. The Trump administration   has often expressed its skepticism of Iran, and Trump often   derided the US nuclear deal with Iran on the campaign trail. ’ ’   A former intelligence official in the Obama administration who   met with Trump transition officials told the Post that   ”separating Russia from Iran was a common theme” on Trump’’s team.   The Trump administration sees Iran as a threat to the US, and   both Iran and Russia have been working to expand their power in   the Middle East in recent years. ’ ’   Prince reportedly approached Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed     the crown prince of Abu Dhabi, after Zayed met with   Trump transition officials in New York in December. That meeting   included former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn and   current Trump administration advisers Steve Bannon and Jared   Kushner. ’ ’   Despite not having an official role with the transition, Prince   reportedly told Zayed that he was authorized to act as an   unofficial surrogate for Trump. He then asked Zayed to set up a   meeting with the Russian, whom sources did not identify to the   Post. ’ ’’ ’   Prince is known to have close connections to the Trump   administration. He donated $250, 000 to support the Trump campaign   last year, has close ties to Bannon, is the brother of Education   Secretary Betsy DeVos, and was seen in the Trump transition   offices in December, according to the Post. ’ ’   US officials told the Post that the FBI is looking into the   Seychelles meeting as part of its investigation into ties between   Trump associates and Russia. White House press secretary Sean   Spicer told the Post that the administration was ”not aware of   any meetings and Erik Prince had no role in the transition.” ’ ’   A spokesman for Prince said the meeting ”had nothing to do with   President Trump.” ’ ’   ”Why is the     intelligence community   messing around with surveillance of American citizens when they   should be hunting terrorists?” the spokesman said in a statement   to the Post. ’ ”   But the Post noted that Prince would have been the ideal     for the Trump administration, the UAE, and Russia   considering his connections to   Emiratis. He moved to   the UAE in 2010 and has done work for the country’s government. ” ’   And Zayed had the necessary connections to Russia  —   he reportedly   met with Putin twice in 2016. ’ ”   It’s possible that Trump’s team signed off on the secret   Seychelles meeting, according to an American businessman who   knows Zayed. ” ’   Zayed ”is very cautious,” the source said, adding there ”had to   be a nod” from aides to Trump and Putin before Zayed would feel   comfortable arranging the meeting. ’ ’   The Intercept  that Prince was ”lurking in the   shadows of the incoming Trump administration” as an unofficial   adviser. Prince’’s wife reportedly posted photos from Trump’’s   campaign headquarters on election night. ’ ’   Trump associates have been under scrutiny for their connections   to Russia. The intelligence committees in both the House and   Senate are investigating Russian interference in the 2016   election, and the FBI has its own probe as well. ’ ”Days before President Donald Trump’s. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’