’  ’ ’   President Donald Trump, who prides himself on being a good   dealmaker, laid out a herculean task for himself in a recent   interview, saying he would get China to address the North Korean   threat. ’ ”   And his best shot is to convince China that he’s crazy. ” ’   ”China will either decide to help us with North Korea, or they   won’t,” Trump  adding that ”if   China is not going to solve North Korea, we will.” ’ ’   But according to Joel Wit, the cofounder of  and a State   Department employee during one of the US’’s few diplomatic   successes with North Korea in 1993, ”China is not going to help   enough,” though it would likely take some small steps to avoid   looking like they’’ve stiffed Trump. ’ ”   Perhaps the best shot Trump has at getting China to significantly   budge on their policy is to convince them he’s a madman, capable   of making the extremely dangerous and deadly action of . ” ’   The US wants China to sever all economic ties with North Korea   and thereby put enormous pressure on the Kim regime to scale back   its nuclear ambitions. But according to Wit, ”China’’s not gonna   do that,” and meanwhile Trump and his top representatives openly   mull military action against the Kim regime like never before. ’ ’   ”They have their own interests. They want to maintain stability   in North Korea and keep North Korea as a buffer against the US   and South Korea,” Wit said. ’ ’   ”China and the US share the goal of removing nuclear weapons of   from North Korea, but that’s the extent to which the US’’s and   China’’s interests overlap,” Bonnie Glaser, director of the    told Business Insider. ’ ’   Glaser pointed out that China has taken the US’’s side in theory,   backing every single UN resolution against North Korea since   2006, ”but it has of course watered down most if not all of those   security council resolutions because it has not wanted to agree   to sanctions that might create instability in North Korea.” ’ ’   ”And if it won’t cause instability, it’s probably not likely to   be tough enough to cause Kim   to rethink his strategy and   priorities,” said Glaser, who said that . ’ ’   And even if Trump managed to sway China to break with decades of   its own policy with its neighbor, ”the North Koreans are not   gonna buckle under pressure from China,” Wit said. ”That’’s not   their mentality.” ’ ’  ’ ”   Kim Jong Un regularly purges North Korea’s elite of those with   ties to China or loyalties anywhere outside of the hermit   kingdom, which has left Xi with limited influence on the   peninsula. ” ’   Wit likened the idea that China could unilaterally fix the West’’s   North Korea problem to a ”pot of gold at the end of the rainbow”   in that it ”really doesn’t exist.” ’ ’   But the Trump administration is not like other administrations. ’ ’   For decades, US presidents have urged NATO countries to pay their   share. Arguably, Trump has been more effective in conveying the   urgency of that message, frequently slamming the alliance on the   campaign trail and calling it ”obsolete.” ’ ’   Trump has stuck to US orthodoxy on NATO essentially, with his   secretary of state recently pushing the   —   a small country   that could at best make a tiny contribution to NATO spending  —   as   the 29th member of the alliance. ’ ”   While some in the media question Trump’s credibility after   largely unsubstantiated claims of mass  and  he certainly rattled China by   breaking with decades of US policy by . ” ’  ’ ’   ”I don’’t disagree that the Chinese see the Trump factor as   unpredictable,” said Glaser. ”I think that they are quite worried   about what Trump might do in the area of trade and economics  —     that’s really credible.” ’ ’   ”If people think you’re crazy enough to do something, it may make   them more willing to be more flexible and give them what they   want,” Wit said of Trump’’s posturing. Wit also recalled the   ”madman doctrine,” for which Nixon was known for operating under. ’ ’   For example, Nixon flew nuclear bombers near the Russian border   for days to project an unhinged image to Soviet leadership,   knowing all the while that nuclear war between the US and Soviets   would be a worldwide disaster. ’ ’   For Trump, war with North Korea, a rising nuclear state, could   easily prove disastrous too. ’ ’   ”I think it’’s almost a universal that with military strikes the   downsides are just so great that it’’s hard to see them taking   place,” said Wit. Even if North Korea didn’’t fire a single   nuclear missile, which  they have such a massive artillery installment that   they could likely level parts of South Korea’’s capital, Seoul,   within hours. ’ ’   In a   scenario, thousands of civilians would likely die   in a strike on North Korea. In worse scenarios, civilian dead   would number in the millions. ’ ’  ’ ’   But the US has flown   bombers around the Korean   Peninsula for years, and the old ”madman” tricks haven’’t yielded   any tangible results. ’ ’   ”The Chinese are smart enough to think about the various military   options, so they probably have concluded that there’s a very low   likelihood” the US would strike North Korea, said Glaser. ”I   don’t think that that has been a serious military option for the   US for the last 15 to 20 years.” ’ ”   But the question when Trump meets Xi will not be if the US can or   will take out the Kim regime, but if he can convince China’s   leader that he’s willing to act a bit crazy and go further than   any administration before him in terms of military or economic   pressure to get his way. ” ’President Donald Trump, who prides himself on. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’