’  ’ ”   Former National Security Adviser Susan Rice reportedly tried to   learn the identities of officials on President Donald Trump’s   transition team whose conversations with foreign officials were   incidentally collected during routine     operations. ” ’   The intelligence reports obtained by Rice, who served under   President Barack Obama from 2013 to 2017, ”were summaries of   monitored conversations  —   primarily between foreign officials   discussing the Trump transition, but also in some cases direct   contact between members of the Trump team and monitored foreign   officials,”  on Monday. ’ ’     experts say Rice’’s reported requests to   identify who was speaking with the foreign officials before Trump   was inaugurated were neither unusual nor against the law  —     especially if, as Lake reported, the foreign officials being   monitored were discussing ”valuable political information” that   required the identity of the people they were speaking to, or   about, to be uncovered. ’ ’   ”The identities of US persons may be released under two   circumstances: 1) the identity is needed to make sense of the   intercept; 2) if a crime is involved in the conversation,” said   Robert Deitz, a former senior counselor to the CIA director and   former general counsel at the National Security Agency. ’ ’   ”Any senior official who receives the underlying intelligence may   request these identities,” Deitz said, noting that while ”the bar   for obtaining the identity is not particularly high, it must come   from a senior official, and the reason cannot simply be raw   curiosity.” ’ ”   Documents showing that Rice made those requests were uncovered by   the National Security Council’s senior director for intelligence,   Ezra   according to Lake’s reporting.  in providing   documents related to the incidental surveillance of members of   Trump’s transition team to House Intelligence Committee Chairman   Devin Nunes about two weeks ago, though it is unclear if they are   the same documents mentioned in Lake’s reporting. ” ’  ’ ’   Nunes, a California Republican, told reporters last month that he   briefed Trump on the documents because he was concerned about the   potential ”unmasking” of US persons caught up in routine   surveillance, though he said he had no evidence that such   unmasking had been unwarranted or illegal. ’ ’   A source of concern to some, however, has been why some of   Trump’’s associates who had been caught up in the surveillance and   later unmasked, such as former National Security Adviser Michael   Flynn, had their names leaked to the press. Lake, for instance,    that the ”selective leaking of monitored   communications of US persons is a   tactic.” ’ ’   But former NSA Director Michael Hayden, who also served as the   principal deputy director of national intelligence and the   director of the CIA, cautioned against ”automatically assuming   that the US person was party to the conversation” that may have   prompted an unmasking. ’ ’   ”My life experience suggests that the overwhelming proportion of   these cases of incidental collection is not information to or   from an American, but information about an American,” Hayden   said. ”In this case, it is very likely in most instances two   foreigners talking about the Trump transition.” ’ ’   Lake’’s article follows a  citing ”a source” who said the official who   sought to identify the people who were speaking with monitored   foreign agents was ”very well known, very high up, very senior in   the intelligence world.” ’ ’   Trump on Monday praised Fox’’s ”amazing reporting on unmasking and   the crooked scheme against us,” which he said showed that ”there   was electronic surveillance” of his inner circle during the   transition. ’ ’   As Nunes has told reporters and as Lake has reported, there is no   evidence that Trump and his team were directly surveilled. ’ ”   The move by Rice, if she had probable cause, could likely be   viewed as routine and expected of   intelligence   officials, said Paul Pillar, a   veteran of the CIA and   former executive assistant to the CIA’s deputy director for   intelligence. ” ’  ’ ’   ”There is an unavoidable tension between, on one hand,   restricting information to protect the privacy of US persons and,   on the other hand, sharing enough information with the consumers   of intelligence so that the intelligence report in question is   comprehensible and useful,” Pillar said in an email. ”And if the   report is not that, why bother collecting and disseminating the   information in the first place? ’ ’   ”The producer of the report, usually the NSA, tends to err on the   side of restricting the information, while a senior consumer’’s   natural tendency is to want more information.” ’ ’   Steve Slick, a former CIA operations officer and NSC official who   now heads the Intelligence Studies Project at the University of   Texas at Austin, agreed that the consumer of the report would   often require more information to understand the significance of   the intelligence. ’ ’   ”By definition, any report that the NSA elects to disseminate is   relevant to a foreign or   issue,” Slick said.   But it is ”often not possible for a consumer or reader to fully   understand the significance of a report without knowing precisely   which US person may have been communicating with the foreign   official,” he added. ’ ’   ”The national security adviser, or a member of   staff, or   perhaps a morning intelligence briefer, would convey that request   to the originating agency with an explanation of who wishes to   know the identity and why,” Slick said. ”In my experience,   legitimate requests are promptly granted, and less defensible   requests (or requesters) are challenged.” ’ ’   Hayden largely echoed that assessment. ’ ’   ”The NSA is notoriously conservative in revealing US identities   in its reporting,” Hayden said. ”Obviously, a request from the   national security adviser to unmask an identity would be given   great weight. That said, it is not automatic and goes through a   carefully documented process at the NSA before an identity is   unmasked.” ’ ’  ’ ”   Pillar, who is now a nonresident senior fellow at Georgetown   University’s Center for Security Studies, said Rice may have even   been motivated to request identities in order to constrain her   own communications. ” ’   ”If Ms. Rice was communicating with members of Trump’’s team   regarding transition matters and she learns from intelligence   that some such members also are communicating with the Russians,   she would want to know exactly who is doing that so she can be   extra careful in her own talks, lest something she says gets   relayed to Moscow,” Pillar said. ’ ”   At least one member of Trump’s transition team had his   conversations picked up incidentally during routine surveillance   of Russia’s ambassador to the US, Sergey Kislyak, last year:   Flynn, the former national security adviser. He was forced to   resign in February after reports surfaced that said he spoke with   Kislyak about US sanctions on Russia despite telling Vice   President Mike Pence that he hadn’t. ” ’  ’ ”   The FBI has been examining whether Trump associates colluded with   Russian officials to undermine Hillary Clinton during the 2016   presidential election. The probe into Trump’s ties to Russia is   part of the bureau’s broader investigation into Russia’s   interference in the 2016 election, FBI Director James Comey said    last month. ” ’   ”This whole story strikes me as just more of the effort to divert   attention from the issue of the relations that Trump and his   associates have had with Russia, and as part of the diversion to   try to suggest impropriety of some sort on the part of the Obama   administration,” Pillar said. ”In other words, it’’s a   continuation of an effort to salvage something from Trump’’s   baseless charges about Obama wiretapping him.” ’ ”   The White House has tried repeatedly, with varying degrees of   evidence, to validate Trump’s explosive claim made last month   that Obama wiretapped his phones at Trump Tower during the   election. ” ”   A former Obama administration official responsible for the   Defense Department’s Russia policy, for instance, came into the   White House’s crosshairs  for what it has characterized as   her admission that   officials were collecting   intelligence on Trump and his transition team. ” ’   Pillar said that ”an important thing to remember is that we are   dealing with foreign intelligence  —   intelligence on Russian   activities  —   and indeed, Russian activities that strike close to   the heart of our democratic processes. ’ ’   ”We should be disturbed if whoever was in office was not keeping close tabs on that sort of   thing,” he said. ’ ’Former National Security Adviser Susan Rice. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’