’  ’ ’   The NCAA  on Tuesday it would no longer blacklist North   Carolina from hosting championship events after the state scaled   back its controversial ”bathroom law.” ’ ”   But the NCAA’s decision has angered LGBT advocates, who say the   NCAA is opening the door to discriminatory laws across the   country. ” ’   The original law, known as HB2, limited LGBT protections in North   Carolina and restricted which public bathroom transgender people   could use. Last week, lawmakers replaced it with a compromise   that removed the bathroom provision, but still limited the   ability of local governments to pass their own LGBT protections. ’ ’   Now that the NCAA has signaled its approval of the compromise,   some fear that other states could be empowered to draft similar   legislation. ’ ’   ”Prior to the NCAA’’s decision to go back to North Carolina, there   was a question as to what standard the NCAA would expect of   championship hosts on LGBT respect and inclusion,” Hudson Taylor,   founder and executive director of LGBT advocacy group Athlete   Ally, told Business Insider. ’ ’’ ’   ”By going back to North Carolina, they have lowered that standard   significantly.” ’ ”   In Texas, some lawmakers viewed the NCAA’s announcement as   validation of their own bathroom bill, the Texas Privacy Act,   which is making its way through state legislature. ” ’   ”We have always said that the Texas Privacy Act was not in   conflict with the   goals of the NCAA and the   statement they released this morning makes that abundantly   clear,” Texas Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick, one of the bill’’s most vocal   champions,  on Tuesday. ’ ”   Sen. Lois Kolkhorst, the bill’s author, was equally quick to   claim victory. ” ’   ”I   …     applaud the NCAA for now agreeing that there is nothing   discriminatory about the Texas Privacy Act,” she  ’ ’   The NCAA    the North Carolina compromise as ”far from perfect,” and said it   approved of it only ”reluctantly.” According to the statement,   North Carolina sites that are chosen to host championships will   need to submit additional documentation to prove they won’’t   discriminate, and the NCAA suggested it will review each   selection on a    basis. ’ ’   But that did little to placate those who wished for a full repeal   of HB2. ’ ’   ”The NCAA’’s decision has put a seal of approval on     discrimination,” Chris Sgro, executive director   of Equality NC, told . ’ ’The NCAA announced on Tuesday it would no. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’