’  ’ ”   President Donald Trump released a statement Tuesday blaming a   chemical attack in Syria on the Obama administration’s policies. ” ”   Dozens of people  on Tuesday when a hospital treating   civilians injured in chemical attacks was bombed. Activists   described the attack as  in the country’s   war. ” ’   ”Today’’s chemical attack in Syria against innocent people,   including women and children, is reprehensible and cannot be   ignored by the civilized world,” Trump said in a statement.   ”These heinous actions by the Bashar   regime are a   consequence of the past administration’’s weakness and   irresolution.” ’ ’   Trump cited President Barack Obama’’s inaction after issuing a   ”red line” in 2012 that suggested that the US would intervene   militarily if the Assad regime used chemical weapons. ’ ’   When evidence that Syrian forces had used chemical weapons to   attack civilians emerged, the US declined to retaliate with   military action, opting instead to broker a deal in which the   Assad regime agreed to remove chemical weapons from Syria. ’ ’’ ’   ”President Obama said in 2012 that he would establish a ’’red   line’’ against the use of chemical weapons and then did nothing,”   Trump said. ”The United States stands with our allies across the   globe to condemn this intolerable attack.” ’ ’   But it doesn’’t appear that the Trump administration is planning   to urge Assad to step down. And Trump didn’’t seem to want Obama   to enforce the red line at the time,  ”AGAIN, TO OUR VERY FOOLISH LEADER, DO NOT ATTACK   SYRIA   IF YOU DO MANY VERY BAD THINGS WILL HAPPEN & FROM   THAT FIGHT THE U. S. GETS NOTHING!” ’ ’   Secretary of State Rex Tillerson told reporters while he was in   Turkey last week that the ”  status” of Assad would ”be   decided by the Syrian people.” And the US’’s ambassador to the UN,   Nikki Haley,  that the Trump   administration’’s ”priority is no longer to sit there and focus on   getting Assad out.” ’ ”   The remark signaled a shift in America’s official position on the   Syrian strongman. Though they were criticized for failing to act   against Assad, Obama and former Secretary of State John Kerry had   long called for Assad to step down in a monitored transition of   power. ” ’   Tillerson released a statement on the chemical attack on Tuesday,   saying the US ”strongly condemns” such actions. ’ ’   ”While we continue to monitor the terrible situation, it is clear   that this is how Bashar   operates: with brutal, unabashed   barbarism,” Tillerson said in the statement, which stopped short   of calling on Assad to relinquish power. ’ ’   Tillerson instead shifted responsibility to Russia and Iran, two   of Assad’’s biggest allies, saying they ”bear great moral   responsibility for these deaths.” ’ ’   ”Those who defend and support him, including Russia and Iran,   should have no illusions about Assad or his intentions,”   Tillerson said. ”Anyone who uses chemical weapons to attack his   own people shows a fundamental disregard for human decency and   must be held accountable.” ’ ’   Tillerson called on Russia and Iran to ”exercise their influence   over the Syrian regime and to guarantee that this sort of   horrific attack never happens again.” ’ ’ Natasha Bertrand contributed to this report. ’ ’President Donald Trump released a statement. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’