’  ’ ’   The Trump administration has been sending mixed messages on   Syria, but President Donald Trump and United Nations ambassador   Nikki Haley indicated Wednesday that the US might be putting   military action on the table in light of a recent chemical   attack. ’ ”   The Tuesday attack on a   town in northwest Syria killed   at least 70 people. The Syrian military blamed it on rebels, but   activists in the country say President Bashar  ’s forces   are responsible. ” ”   Trump said at a press conference Wednesday that the attack    and had changed his attitude   toward the Assad regime. The Trump administration had previously   indicated that ousting Assad, a brutal leader who has committed   atrocities against his own people, wasn’t a priority. ” ’   Also on Wednesday, Haley told the UN Security Council that when   the UN ”consistently fails in its duty to act collectively, there   are times in the life of states that we are compelled to take our   own action,” a possible hint at US military intervention. ’ ”   But the administration has been sending mixed messages on Syria,   and Trump on Wednesday emphasized that he wasn’t going to reveal   his plan, saying he doesn’t like to say what he’s going to be   doing militarily. ” ”   Here’s a look at what key people have said recently on the Syrian   conflict, which is stretching into its sixth year as rebels fight   to oust Assad. ” ’   Trump has been all over the map on Syria. ’ ’   In 2013, he urged   Barack Obama against military   action,  ”AGAIN,   TO OUR VERY FOOLISH LEADER, DO NOT ATTACK SYRIA   IF YOU DO MANY   VERY BAD THINGS WILL HAPPEN & FROM THAT FIGHT THE U. S. GETS   NOTHING!” In  that month, he said, ”stay out of Syria.” ’ ’   But Trump said Wednesday that he likes to be flexible in his   positions. ’ ’   ”That attack on children yesterday had a big impact on me. Big   impact,” Trump said. ”That was a horrible, horrible thing. And   I’’ve been watching it and seeing it and it doesn’’t get any worse   than that.”  ’ ’   The president continued: ”It’’s very, very possible, and I   will tell you it’’s already happened, that my attitude toward   Syria and Assad has changed very much.” ’ ”   Trump’s statement on Tuesday addressing the attack didn’t go   quite this far. ” ’   ”Today’’s chemical attack in Syria against innocent people,   including women and children, is reprehensible and cannot be   ignored by the civilized world,” Trump said in the statement,   calling the attack ”heinous” and attributing it to the Assad   regime. ’ ’   He also pivoted this week to criticizing Obama for not taking   action in Syria years ago that could have put and end to the   civil war. ’ ’   In 2012, Obama drew a ”red line” and threatened military action   if the Assad regime used chemical weapons, but then backtracked   once evidence surfaced of such an attack. He opted instead   to broker a deal in which the Assad regime agreed to remove   chemical weapons from Syria. Trump now calls this a mistake. ’ ’   ”I think the Obama administration had a great opportunity to   solve this crisis a long time ago when he said the red line in   the sand,” Trump said. ”And when he didn’’t cross that line after   making the threat, I think that set us back a long ways, not only   in Syria but in many other parts of the world because it was a   blank threat.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Haley, the US ambassador to the UN, has also made differing   statements on Syria. ’ ’   Just last week, Haley said the Trump administration’’s priority   ”is no longer to sit and focus on getting Assad out.” ’ ’   ”Do we think he’’s a hindrance? Yes,” she told reporters. ”Are we   going to sit there and focus on getting him out? No.” ’ ’   And also last week, when asked at a  whether a political   solution in Syria would include a timeline for Assad stepping   down, Haley stayed vague. ’ ’   ”I’’m not going to go back into should Assad be in or out,” she   said. ”Been there, done that, right, in terms of what the US has   done. But I will tell you that he is a big hindrance in trying to   move forward.” ’ ”   But Haley’s language  this week. ” ’   ”When the United Nations consistently fails in its duty to act   collectively, there are times in the life of states that we are   compelled to take our own action,” Haley told the UN Security   Council on Wednesday, appearing to allude to the possibility of   US intervention in Syria if such attacks continue. ’ ”   She also pinned blame on Russia and Iran, Syria’s main allies,   for not putting a stop to the attacks. ” ’   The Russian government has denied any responsibility for   Tuesday’’s attack, saying Wednesday that the toxic gas was   released accidentally when a Syrian air strike hit a ”terrorist   warehouse” containing ”toxic substances.” ’ ’  ’ ’   So far during his tenure as secretary of state, Rex Tillerson has   been reluctant to call on Assad to step down. He has also   pinned blame on Russia and Iran for failing to stop chemical   attacks in Syria. ’ ’   Tillerson told reporters while he was in Turkey last week   that the ”  status” of Assad would ”be decided by the   Syrian people.” ’ ’   And he released a statement on the chemical attack on   Tuesday, saying the US ”strongly condemns” such actions, but   stopping short of saying that Assad must go. ’ ’   ”While we continue to monitor the terrible situation, it is clear   that this is how Bashar   operates: with brutal, unabashed   barbarism,” Tillerson said in the statement. ’ ’   Tillerson also said Russia and Iran ”bear great moral   responsibility for these deaths.” ’ ’   ”Those who defend and support him, including Russia and Iran,   should have no illusions about Assad or his intentions,”   Tillerson said. ”Anyone who uses chemical weapons to attack his   own people shows a fundamental disregard for human decency and   must be held accountable.” ’ ”   Tillerson hinted that it is Syria’s allies, rather than the US,   that are responsible for stopping future attacks. ” ’   In the statement, he called on Russia and Iran to ”exercise   their influence over the Syrian regime and to guarantee that this   sort of horrific attack never happens again.” ’ ’The Trump administration has been sending mixed. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’