’  ’ ’   So much for not being able to teach an old dog new tricks. ’ ’   Research has shown that some older people stay sharp   into old age and retain the ability to recall personal   experiences with just as much accuracy as their     peers. The brains of these   ” ” look   distinct, too: Their    outer layer, or . ’ ’   For a new   study, the results of which were published   April 4 in the  researchers investigated   whether these keen individuals simply start out with bigger   brains or if, instead, they are somehow protected   from .  ’ ’   The researchers screened more than 1, 000 people, less than   5% of whom qualified as    . They then   compared the brains of those 24 men and women (all of whom were   over 80 years old) to the brains of 12     ”cognitively average” adults using MRI technology. ’ ”   It turns out the   brains may not initially be any   bigger or more robust. Instead, the researchers   discovered that the brains of the average study participants   were atrophying at more than twice the rate of the    ’ brains over the   study window. The new   paper therefore suggests that these rare individuals are    that wears away   the   outer layer of our brains.  ” ’’ ’   This finding adds an important new piece to the puzzle of what   makes a    —   and provides some insight into how age   affects the brains of regular people, too. ’ ”   As we age, our brain’s gray matter  —   the stuff we rely on   for  processing      exerting   and more  —   shrinks and degrades. So too   does our brain’s white matter, which   of twisting fibers (wiring,   essentially) that carries information across different parts of   the brain. ” ’   Interestingly, a small 2014 study published in the journal Nature   Communications suggested that in some older people,  that   can fire up when gray matter reserves run down. ’ ”   If that doesn’t happen, however, people experience the   typical effects of aging  —   fuzzier memory, a harder time   paying attention, and difficulty learning new skills.  ” ”     and people gifted with   white   matter are rare, but  suggests there are things the average   person can do to stay keen with age as well. These   include  quitting or   not starting smoking, and  or being intellectually challenged.   So if you’ve been meaning to meet up with some old friends or   have been putting off joining that yoga studio, there’s no   time like the present. ” ’So much for not being able to teach an old. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’