’  ’ ’   About five years ago, Mike Gamson and the rest of the LinkedIn   leadership team wrapped up a successful corporate event when one   of his employees approached him and asked, ”Why were all of the   presenters on the main stage men?” ’ ’   ”And I said two bad things,” Gamson told Business Insider. He   told her he didn’’t notice, and then he said it was just because   those were all the people who were running LinkedIn’’s   departments. ’ ’   ”And she goes, ’’That’’s my point! ’’” ’ ”   As LinkedIn’s SVP of global solutions, Gamson oversees about half   of the professional social network’s roughly 10, 000 employees. He   was also responsible for overseeing the launch of many of   LinkedIn’s 30 offices throughout the world. ” ’   Over his nearly 10 years at the company, he said he considers the   awkward conversation after that event to be the catalyst for one   one of the best lessons of his career: He had a tendency to hire   executives who looked, thought, and acted like himself. ’ ’   Silicon Valley has a long history of being white and male by a   large margin, and more recently of tech leaders trying too hard   to compensate. (Lyft cofounder and president John Zimmer, for   example,  that his ridesharing company is the   ”woke” alternative to what he deems its less progressive   competitor Uber; ). ’ ’   And Gamson admits that he and the fellow male leaders on his team   started their new initiative basically by congratulating each   other on their social awareness. ”The first year of serious   intent was pretty much a total failure in terms of changing   things  —   just a group of guys just sitting around saying, ’’Aren’’t   we enlightened? We care about this. We’’re going to try to do   something. ’’ That didn’’t work.” ’ ’   Gamson eventually realized the smarter decision would be to   actually partner with top female employees rather than ”woke”   guys. So he partnered with these employees and launched the ”WiN”   women’’s initiative at LinkedIn and developed a     approach: rethink talent acquisition, focus on developing female   talent already at the company, and implement unconscious bias   training. ’ ’  ’ ’   As Gamson  ”The main lesson is this: If you are a   male leader at a   company and don’’t deliberately hire   for a diverse workforce from the beginning, eventually most of   your hires and leaders are going to be much like you. In fact,   probably too much like you because the default position of hiring   is to tap your friends, and friends of friends who are likely to   look, think, act and speak like you, and who often come from   similar backgrounds.” ’ ”   He told us that while the issue of women entering engineering   careers is a complex issue connected to the lack of female   representation in tech roles at big Silicon Valley companies, he   realized that the sections he oversees  —   essentially LinkedIn’s     departments  —   did not have such a talent pool problem. ” ’   LinkedIn, like other major tech players, is still largely male   and white, but it has been moving the needle on diversity.    the company is 58%   male and 42% female; tech is   male; but   roles are   up to 48% male and 52% female. Its leadership is 65% male and 35%   female. Overall female representation is up 10% since 2014, when   WiN began, and female representation in senior sales leadership   is up 44% in that same time. ’ ’   For context,  is 67% male and 33% female;   roles are 47%   male and 53% female; and leadership is 73% male and 27% female.    is 69%   male and 31% female;   roles are 53% male and 47% female;   and leadership is 76% male and 24% female. ’ ”   Gamson said he learned over the past few years that it’s   partially been a matter of spending more time looking at   qualified candidates, rather than hiring the first person who   seems fitting. ” ’   ”The first thing was just I’’m OK with instead of taking eight   weeks it takes 14 weeks to find the right person, great, no   problem,” he said. ”And that was a huge difference maker.” ’ ’About five years ago, Mike Gamson and the rest. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’