’  ’ ’   Bill O’Reilly is having a difficult week, but he certainly isn’t   alone while he moves through it. ’ ’   More than 3. 76 million people tuned in to Tuesday night’s “The   O’Reilly Factor,” an increase of 20% from the same day’s telecast   last week, according to data from Nielsen Media Research, despite   a very public backlash to a Saturday New York Times report that   five women had received payments coming to about $13 million in   exchange for agreeing not to pursue litigation or speak about   accusations related to sexual harassment or inappropriate   behavior by  O’Reilly, the veteran Fox News broadcaster who   is the linchpin of the network’s primetime lineup. ’ ’   O’Reilly in a statement said his fame had made him a target, but   that no complaint about him had ever been made through Fox’s     hotline. ’ ’    His “Factor” broadcast last night captured an average of   628, 000 viewers between the ages of 25 and 54, an increase of 11%   from last week’s   audience.  What’s more, his   show won more viewers overall than either ABC’s “Imaginary Mary”   or NBC’s “Trial and Error. ” ’ ’   The robust viewership shows the tough road Fox News is walking   along these days. Even as its programs attract a robust and   passionate audience, it is making headlines of its own as a   series of lawsuits being made public reveal a disturbing internal   culture. In recent days, suits have been filed accusing a former   Fox comptroller of racist behavior and former Fox News chief   Roger Ailes of sexually harassing a current Fox News contributor.   Ailes has denied the charges. ’ ’’ ’   The controversy is, no doubt, fueling some portion of the   viewership. Some viewers are no doubt tuning in to see if the   anchor will address his current situation. He has not so far this   week in two broadcasts Monday and Tuesday. ’ ’   A large number of advertisers have announced their decision to   suspend their ties with “The O’Reilly Factor,” but the anchor’s   audience, it seems, has not. According to Nielsen, the show was   the     program Tuesday among total   viewers and the   demographic. ’ ’   Advertisers including Jenny Craig, GlaxoSmithKline, Mitsubishi   Motors, BMW and Ainsworth Pet Nutrition have all moved ads slated   to run during “Factor” to other Fox News programs. One media   buyer suggested marketers will have a hard time abandoning the   program because of its strong, steady ratings performance. ’ ’Bill O’Reilly is having a difficult week. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’