’  ’ ’   With  the House GOP introduced an amendment   Thursday for the AHCA to establish ”invisible   pools” to   help cover people with preexisting conditions. ’ ’   The amendment is aimed at foisting a public show of progress   toward the repeal and replace of the Affordable Care Act,   also known as Obamacare, while adding a popular Republican   proposal to their healthcare legislation. ’ ’   These ”invisible” pools would operate similarly to Obamacare’’s   reinsurance policies, which gave money to insurers to help lower   premiums for the sickest people. In theory, this would help   stabilize the individual insurance market for those without   coverage through an employer or government program like Medicare. ’ ’   However,   pools have long been criticized for   their hiccups, and the Republican amendment remains unclear   on its specifics. ’ ’ funding for the pools but does not   specify how states will qualify for the funding, how it will be   apportioned, how enrollees will be determined, and more. ’ ’’ ”   Instead, those details would be left up to the Centers of   Medicare and Medicaid Services, a division of the Department of   Health and Human Services that oversees many government insurance   programs, including the Affordable Care Act’s insurance   exchanges. ” ’   Additionally, the funding allocated toward the invisible     pools in the amendment could be inadequate. To   mitigate costs to insurers from   pools, since sicker   people are more expensive and there are no healthy people to   balance out the costs, the federal government would allocate   funding to the states to distribute to insurers and patients   to bring the costs down. ’ ’ would allocate $15 billion over a     period until 2026 for states to establish   pools, or   roughly $1. 67 billion annually. Based on most studies   on   pools, that number would fall well short of the   amount needed to keep insurers in the market and keep costs down   for enrollees. ’ ’   Cynthia Cox, Associate Director at the Kaiser Family Foundation,   told Business Insider that this funding would not be nearly   enough compared to what would be needed to properly fund a pool   of this type. ’ ’   ”I think an invisible   pool or reinsurance could work so   long as it’’s adequately funded, and this does not seem like a   significant amount of money,” Cox said. ’ ’   ”It is likely a drop in the bucket compared to what insurers   would likely need to stabilize the market and to help convince   them to stick around,” she added. ’ ’   The old reinsurance program under the ACA provided  for these   funds, which still struggled to keep some costs under control   even then. ’ ’   Interestingly, when talking about the extension of the Obamacare   reinsurance program, many Republican lawmakers called such   funding a ”bailout,” as reported by Chris Jacobs, a   conservative policy consultant who previously worked for    . Mike Pence during the original ACA debate.  ’ ’   ”    ’ ’   By most estimations, the money set aside by the new   amendment does not measure up, potentially leading to a massive   number of the sickest people with either incredibly high costs in   the pool, massive insurer losses, or sick people simply opting to   go without insurance. ’ ’With little movement toward an overall. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’