’  ’ ”   Less than 24 hours after two US Navy destroyers pulled up to   Syria’s Mediterranean coast and let fly a    Syrian warplanes took off from the damaged air base targeted by   the strike, . ” ’   The US strike,  for a  in northeastern Syria that   killed at least 80 people earlier this week, targeted ”aircraft,   hardened aircraft shelters, petroleum and logistical storage,   ammunition supply bunkers, air defense systems, and radars” at   Shayrat air base, according to a . ’ ’   But Syria and its Russian backers have many air bases and lots of   military infrastructure in the country. ’ ’   The US intentionally launched a limited strike, which was too   small and focused to realistically prevent Syrian forces from   flying military aircraft in their country. ’ ’   ”The US took extraordinary measures to avoid civilian casualties   and to comply with the Law of Armed Conflict,” said Capt. Jeff   Davis, a Pentagon spokesman. ”Every precaution was taken to   execute this strike with minimal risk to personnel at the   airfield.” ’ ”   Images of the aftermath of the strike released by the Pentagon   show that the air base’s runways  —   which the US suspects Syrian   forces used to launch the aircraft that carried out the deadly   chemical attack  —   were unharmed by the cruise missiles, while   aircraft hangars bore the brunt of the damage. ” ’  ’ ’   Despite being warned about the strike and suffering no   casualties, Russia responded by  with the US, increasing the risk that an   accidental clash of US and Russian forces, who operate close to   each other in Syria, could escalate into a larger conflict. ’ ’   Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev said the move put the US   and Russia ”” from clashing. ’ ’   After the strike, Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan and  called for more US action   against Syrian government forces. ’ ’ Nikki Haley, the US’’s ambassador to the   UN, told an emergency UN Security Council meeting on Friday that   the US was ”prepared to do more” against the Assad regime, ”but   we hope that will not be necessary.” ’ ’   ”The United States will not stand by when chemical weapons are   used,” she said. ”It is in our vital national security interest   to prevent the spread and use of chemical weapons.” ’ ’Less than 24 hours after two US Navy destroyers. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’