’  ’ ’   Sen. John McCain had supportive words for President Donald Trump   on Friday after the US launched missile strikes against Syrian   government targets in response to a chemical weapons attack   inside the country days earlier. ’ ’   But the Arizona senator and chair of the Senate Armed   Services Committee warned that it would do little for the     region. ’ ’   ”Don’’t expect one strike to one airfield one time to knock out a   country’’s air force,” McCain said in a CNN interview Friday. ’ ’   ”We’’ve been bombing ISIS for years,” he said, referring to US   coalition air strikes throughout Syria and Iraq. ’ ”   Indeed, the dozens of cruise missiles launched from two US Navy   ships reportedly did little to hamper Syria’s air   operations, . ” ’   When asked whether the US should send ground troops to Syria,   McCain said Assad ”will not be overthrown by American troops.” He   said only a trained,   free Syrian army would   prevail. ’ ’   ”The only reason why Bashar Assad is in power today is because of   Russia and Iran  —   certainly not because of Syrians,” McCain said. ’ ’ ’ ’Sen. John McCain says Russia and Iran are the only reasons Bashar   is still in power ’ ”   Russian President Vladimir Putin has been a staunch ally to   Assad, and Russia became more involved on his behalf in 2015,   tipping the scales in favor of Assad’s government. The civil war   roiling Syria has been ongoing for six years. ” ’   CNN anchor Wolf Blitzer appeared to strike a nerve with a   question about Sen. Rand Paul’’s statement on the US missile   strikes. Paul criticized Trump’’s move to strike, saying ”the   United States was not attacked,” and reminding the      of his obligation to consult with Congress   about military actions, adding that previous US interventions in   the region ”have done nothing to make us safer.” ’ ’   McCain dismissed Paul, a former presidential candidate and   frequent voice of opposition, out of hand. ’ ’   ” ’ ’ ’ ’. on : “He doesn’t have any real influence in the United States Senate” ’ ’Sen. John McCain had supportive words for. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’