’  ’ ”   As a candidate for president, Donald Trump  President Barack Obama’s call for Bashar   to   step down, saying the Syrian president was fighting ISIS, a   mutual enemy of the United States. ” ”   But following Assad’s use of chemical weapons against Syrian   rebels last week, Trump’s administration appears torn over how   far to go with its Syria policy  —   with some members of the   administration explicitly calling for Assad’s removal from power. ” ’   Though the administration last month said removing Assad  some key figures on   Sunday telegraphed their renewed support for removing the   Syrian president. ’ ’   In an interview on ”State of the Union,” the US ambassador to the   United Nations, Nikki Haley, didn’’t directly answer whether the   administration supported regime change. But she said that there   couldn’’t be a resolution to the conflict where Assad remains in   power. ’ ’   ”Getting Assad out is not the only priority,” she said on Sunday.   ”And so what we’’re trying to do is obviously defeat ISIS.   Secondly, we don’’t see a peaceful Syria with Assad in there. ’ ’   ”Regime change is something that we think is going to happen   because all of the parties are going to see that Assad is not the   leader that needs to be taking place for Syria. So what I think   you’’re seeing is, this isn’’t about policy or not, this is about   thoughts. And so when you look at the thoughts, there is no   political solution that any of us can see with Assad at the   lead.” ’ ’   White House national security adviser H. R. McMaster told Fox News   he  but said the US was ”not going to   be the ones who effect that change.” ’ ’   ”Other countries have to ask themselves some hard questions,” he   said on Sunday. ”Russia should ask themselves, ’’What are we doing   here? Why are we supporting this murderous regime that is   committing mass murder of its own population and using the most   heinous weapons available? ’’” ’ ’  ’ ”   Others were more hesitant to strike a new tone, despite Trump’s   decision to strike a Syrian airfield used by Assad. ” ’   Secretary of State Rex Tillerson told ABC that there was no   change in US policy from last month. ’ ’   ”We’’ve seen what that looks like when you undertake a violent   regime change in Libya, and the situation in Libya continues to   be very chaotic, and I would argue that the life of the Libyan   people is not all that well off today,” Tillerson said Sunday.   ”So I think we have to learn the lessons of the past and learn   the lessons of what went wrong in Libya when you choose that   pathway of regime change.” ’ ’   ”Any time you go in and have a violent change at the top, it is   very difficult to create the conditions for stability longer   term,” he added. ’ ”   The contradictory sentiments  from top lawmakers, who were left to   infer which policymaker represented the president’s   thinking. ” ’ said that Tillerson’’s strategy was   ”based on assumptions that aren’’t going to work.” ’ ’   ”There seems to be a difference between what Ambassador Haley is   saying, as she said last night, that Assad really has no future,   and what I heard this morning from Secretary Tillerson,” Rubio   said on ”This Week.” ’ ’   He added: ”There is no such thing as ’’Assad yes, but ISIS, no. ’’   This theory that you can defeat ISIS as long as Assad is there is   not true. They’’re two sides of the same coin.” ’ ’   Democratic Sen. Edward Markey told CNN that Haley was advocating   for forcefully removing Assad from power using US troops.  ’ ’   ”It means doing in Syria what we did in Iraq in removing Saddam   Hussein,” Markey said. ”I don’’t think there’’s any appetite in the   United States for a massive additional military presence, with   young men and women actually in combat situations being   introduced.” ’ ’  ’ ’   The contradictions represent the diverging foreign   policy power structures that have emerged within the Trump   administration. ’ ”   Despite reportedly  offers to serve as Trump’s secretary of state, Haley has   emerged as the administration’s top spokesperson on foreign   policy issues. ” ”   While Tillerson and his State Department have largely shunned the   press, Haley has sat down with the major television programs, and   delivered speeches to the UN that cable news channels carried   live. She’s also reassured key allies, and been more outspoken in   criticizing Russia than her Washington counterpart, who has a   longstanding relationship with Russian President Vladimir Putin. ” ’   Politico reported  that Haley may be poised to inherit the job from   Tillerson later in the administration. ’ ”   McMaster, too, has consolidated power within the National   Security Council by demoting allies of former national security   adviser Michael Flynn. This week, Trump’s top   political strategist Steve Bannon was removed from the   principals committee, while deputy national security adviser KT   McFarland also . ” ’As a candidate for president, Donald. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’