’  ’ ’   Fox News’’ parent company, 21st Century Fox, is going to open an   investigation into  attorney Lisa Bloom  CNN’’s ”Reliable Sources” on Sunday. ’ ”   The investigation comes after Bloom and her client, Wendy Walsh,    Fox’s workplace misconduct hotline,   and placed an official complaint against O’Reilly on Wednesday. A   recording of the call was also uploaded to YouTube. ” ’   ”Today, @DrWendyWalsh and I officially called in her sexual   harassment complaint against O’’Reilly to FoxNews hotline,” Bloom   tweeted on Wednesday. ”Fox News and O’’Reilly have said no one has   complained about him on their complaint line. That is no longer   true. We have the proof.” ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tToday,  and I officially called in her sexual harassment complaint against O’Reilly to FoxNews hotline.  ” ”   Walsh was a regular guest on The O’Reilly Factor and was   reportedly offered a paid contributor position at the network.   After she refused an invitation to go to O’Reilly’s hotel suite   in 2013, a  found, he   did not follow through on securing her a job at Fox News. ” ”   Walsh is one of several women who have made claims of sexual   harassment against O’Reilly. He and Fox News paid out $13 million   in settlements to five women who had previously accused the host   of harassment, according to the Times. ” ’   The women’’s allegations, which the Times found date back to 2002,   included complaints of verbal abuse, lewd comments, unwanted   advances, and phone calls ”in which it sounded as if Mr. O’’Reilly   was masturbating, according to documents and interviews.” ’ ”   Attorneys of Fox News told Bloom they would investigate Walsh’s   complaint against O’Reilly after she placed a call to the   hotline, Bloom told CNN’s Brian Stelter. ” ’   ”I’’m told that they are taking it seriously, and they are going   to do the investigation that’’s legally required of them,” she   said. ’ ”   O’Reilly has denied that there is any merit to the allegations   against him. He hired crisis communications expert Mark Fabiani,   who released a statement to the Times on behalf of his   client.  ” ’   ”Just like other prominent and controversial people, I’’m   vulnerable to lawsuits from individuals who want me to pay them   to avoid negative publicity,” the statement said. ”In my more   than 20 years at Fox News Channel, no one has ever filed a   complaint about me with the Human Resources Department, even on   the anonymous hotline. ’ ’   ”But most importantly, I’’m a father who cares deeply for my   children and who would do anything to avoid hurting them in any   way. And so I have put to rest any controversies to spare my   children,” it continued.  ’ ”   The statement also suggested that O’Reilly is a target of   harassment claims because of his prominence and the revenue   he rakes in for the network helming the   cable news show   in the country. His lawyer said in a separate statement that they   are now considering legal action to defend O’Reilly’s reputation. ” ”   Despite his denials, O’Reilly and the network have taken a PR hit   since the allegations emerged  —   60 companies have now  from O’Reilly’s   time slot. ” ’   Fox News has been engulfed by a flurry of negative headlines in   recent days, with allegations also surfacing from contributor   Julie Roginsky, who became the latest woman to  against   former Fox News CEO and Chairman Roger Ailes. Ailes was ousted   from the network last summer after multiple women accused him of   sexual misconduct. ’ ”Fox News’ parent company, 21st Century Fox, is. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’