’  ’ ’   Lonnie Cucinitti gets choked up when he thinks about all the   people in his life who chipped in when he needed money for his   four prescriptions. ’ ”   The    Texan launched a GoFundMe page in January with   the hopes of collecting enough money to cover his     prescriptions. He shared the fundraiser on his Facebook page, and   he started receiving small donations, a few from people he didn’t   know.  ” ”   Most came from friends he had made while he was in the Navy, whom   he’d met more than 50 years ago.  ” ’   ”It makes me very emotional to think that people I met 50 years   ago would care enough to send $50,” he told Business   Insider.  ’ ”   Cucinitti is one of many people who have turned to crowdfunding   to cover routine medical expenses. While crowdfunding is mainly   used for emergency medical costs, many still turn to sites like   GoFundMe for costly prescriptions, including insulin, a     diabetes medication that’s seen its list prices   . ” ’   A search for ”prescription” on GoFundMe bought up roughly 13, 600   results of past and current funding pages. For insulin  —   both for   insulin pumps and the medication itself  —   there were almost 6, 000   results. GoFundMe did not respond to requests for comment on the   topic. ’ ’   The reasons people cite for turning to crowdfunding vary from   trying to fill in gaps in Medicare to hitting deductibles, or the   amount of money a person needs to pay out of pocket before   insurance kicks in and picks up most of the rest, to just   generally hoping to make ends meet.  ’ ’   For Cucinitti, who lives on $1, 024 a month, the $120 he needed to   cover three months worth of pills was more than he could afford.   He said he’’s noticed his prescriptions have ”gone up like crazy,”   which is when he started shopping around for the cheapest prices.   He was paying roughly $100 more for his prescriptions before   switching to Kroger grocery stores. ’ ”   He’s not alone in feeling frustrated by high prescription prices.   Tina Craigen’s friend helped her launched a GoFundMe page to   cover the cost of a medication for Crohn’s disease, an   inflammatory disease that affects the lining of the digestive   tract. Craigen had seen others on social media use the site to   raise money to take part in clinical trials, so she and her   friend thought it might be a good idea to put it to use when she   started out on a new medication to treat the disease. With her   insurance, Craigen has to pay $1, 300 for her treatment, an   infusion that she takes every three to four weeks. Without   insurance, the treatment may have cost her $33, 000 per infusion. ” ’  ’ ’   The campaign launched roughly a month ago, and so far she’’s   raised about $1, 000 toward her $15, 000 goal. She said she hopes   to get enough to get her through six months worth of treatment,   at which point she can see if it’’s helping or not. Anything she   can raise above that, she plans to donate to raise   awareness about the cost of these treatments. ”It’’s   frustrating to need prescription help,” she said. ’ ’   A March article in the  took a look at crowdfunding   for medical expenses. The authors noted that there’’s little   regulation about how funding from crowdfunding sites is reported,   so there’’s not much data about how frequently people use it to   pay for medical expenses. The authors called research based   on this data ”long overdue.” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’Lonnie Cucinitti gets choked up when he thinks. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’