’  ’ ’   Magic Leap is beefing up its ranks with artists and animators   from an   studio and veteran game designer,   in  ’ ”   Magic Leap’s special glasses,   which overlay ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   FuzzyCube Software, the smaller of the two studios, is based out   of Dallas, Texas, and was founded by former Apple employees,   including Jeff Ruediger. A creator of casual iPhone and iPad   games including ’ ”After Magic Leap purchased the startup in the   spring of last year, the developers joined Magic Leap’s   larger content group, which employs hundreds of animators,   artists, and developers. The price of the acquisition could   not be learned, but was probably relatively modest given that the   company’s team was less than ten employees. The FuzzCube team   continues to work out of Dallas. ” ’   Magic Leap also explored a larger acquisition with Moonbot   Studios, a highly esteemed animation company that employed   around 50 artists and animators when the talks with Magic   Leap began. The animation  ’ ’  ’ ”   But with its funding from private investors  —   including the oil   company Anderson Oil  —   used up, Moonbot and Magic Leap discussed   a potential acquisition in late 2016, multiple sources at the   company and those familiar with the talks told Business   Insider. Magic Leap’s CEO and founder Rony   Abovitz is a fan of the studio and its work, according to sources   at Magic Leap. ” ’   A sources familiar with the talks cited ”complex” issues   with Moonbot’’s intellectual property as a potential reason the   talks didn’’t solidify into a sale.  ’ ”   Instead of an acquisition, Magic Leap hired about a dozen   Moonbot artists and animators  —   none of which included Moonbot’s   three cofounders  —   and Moonbot Studios went through a round of   layoffs, leaving its cofounders with a small crew. ” ’   Since the Magic Leap deal talks, Moonbot has been quietly   building up a new studio called Flight School, which will launch   soon.  ’ ’   ’ ”   Moonbot’s new endeavor, Flight School, will be a unique entity   and has partnered with Reel FX, an animation studio cofounded by   one of Moonbot’s three cofounders, Brandon Oldenburg. The new   studio will create  ” ’Magic Leap is beefing up its ranks with artists. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’