’  ’ ”   The man who claims he was the SEAL Team 6 operator who shot Osama   bin Laden in 2011 has written a new book, and his retelling of   that raid shows the reason photos of the terror leader’s body   were never released. ” ’   The book, ”” by Robert O’’Neill, recounts the   former Navy chief’’s career spanning 400 missions, though his role   with the elite SEAL team’’s raid on bin Laden’’s compound in   Abbottabad, Pakistan, has become his most consequential. ’ ” he was walking behind his fellow SEALs   as they searched bin Laden’s   compound. Upstairs,   they could roughly make out bin Laden’s son Khalid, who had an    . ” ’   ”Khalid, come here,” the SEALs whispered to him. He poked his   head out and was shot in the face. ’ ”   An unnamed point man and O’Neill proceeded up to the third floor.   After they burst into bin Laden’s bedroom, the point man tackled   two women, thinking they might have suicide vests, as O’Neill   fired at the Al Qaeda founder. ” ’   ”In less than a second, I aimed above the woman’’s right shoulder   and pulled the trigger twice,” he wrote, . ”Bin Laden’’s head split   open, and he dropped. I put another bullet in his head.   Insurance.” ’ ’   There is some dispute over who fired the fatal shots, but most   accounts are that O’’Neill shot bin Laden in the head at some   point. According to a  in The   Intercept, O’’Neill ”canoed” the head of bin Laden, delivering a   series of shots that split open his forehead into a V shape. ’ ’  ’ ”   O’Neill’s book says the operators had to press bin Laden’s head   back together to take identifying photos. But that wasn’t the end   of the mutilation of bin Laden’s body,    to Jack Murphy of SOFREP, a   news website. ” ”   Two sources told Murphy in 2016 that several SEALs took turns   dumping round after round into bin Laden’s body, which ended up   having more than 100 bullet holes in it. ” ’   Murphy, a former Army Ranger, called it ”beyond excessive.” ’ ’   ”The picture itself would likely cause an international scandal,   and investigations would be conducted which could uncover other   operations, activities which many will do anything to keep   buried,” he wrote. ’ ”   After bin Laden’s body was taken back to Afghanistan for full   identification, it was transported to the USS Carl Vinson   ( ) for burial at sea. Somewhere in the Arabian Sea on May   2, 2011, a military officer read prepared religious remarks,   and bin Laden’s body was slid into the sea. ” ’   The Defense Department said it could not locate photos   or video of the event,  obtained in 2012 by The Associated   Press. ’ ’The man who claims he was the SEAL Team 6. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’