’  ’ ”   It’s been a long day for Sean Spicer. ” ’   At a press briefing Tuesday afternoon, the White House press   secretary was admonishing Syria for its recent gas attack when he   claimed that even Hitler ”didn’’t sink to using chemical weapons.”   The historically challenged comments  in the room, and instantly generated an    from Jewish groups and Democrats. ’ ’   Spicer  for his remarks on CNN Tuesday evening, but as he   spoke, he committed two more unfortunate verbal blunders. ’ ’   First, as Spicer tried to get on message, he mentioned President   Donald Trump’’s action in Syria, namely ”the attempts he’’s   making to destabilize the region and root out ISIS out   of Syria.” ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tSpicer with another slip: Don’’t want to distract from ”the president’’s decisive action in Syria and attempts . ... to destabilize the region”  ’ ’   CNN confirmed after the interview that Spicer indeed meant to say   stabilize, not destabilize, which naturally   have opposite meanings. ’ ”   It’s not the first time he’s confused the two words: ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tThis was not the first instance where Sean Spicer stated that  goal is to destabilize  and region. First one below.  ’ ’   Minutes later in the interview, Spicer fumbled over the name of   Syrian President Bashar   in a linguistic misstep so   flagrant that CNN host Wolf Blitzer had to jump in and set him   straight. ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’t. continues to be unable to pronounce Assad’s name so Wolf kindly helps him out  ” ’   ”Bashar  . I know you’’ve mispronounced his name a few   times, but it’’s Bashar ” Blitzer said. ’ ’   Spicer has previously pronounced the Syrian leader’’s name   ”Ashad,” ”Bashad  ” and as The Washington Post’’s Erik   Wemple industriously  ”Bissaa  .” ’ ’   The exchanges were roundly mocked on Twitter: ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tAnd then Wolf stuck the knife in, hitting Spicer on his mispronunciation of Bashar  . (Spicer says ”Ashad”. ..)’t’t’ ’ ’t’t’tEven in his apology on CNN, Spicer said Trump is attempting to ”destabilize the region” when your job is words, this is a disaster. ’t’t’ ”It’s been a long day for Sean Spicer. At a. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’