’  ’ ”   The FBI obtained a FISA warrant last summer to monitor the   communications of Carter Page, who was an early     adviser to Donald Trump’s presidential campaign, The Washington   Post  on Tuesday. ” ”   The      adviser was named in   an unverified dossier about President Donald Trump’s ties to   Russia as a liaison between the Trump campaign and Russian   officials. His trips to Moscow and contact with at least one   Russian official last year are now . ” ’  ’ ’   Page has called accusations that he served as a liaison an   ”illegal” form of ”retribution” for the speech, in which he   slammed the US for its ”hypocritical focus on ideas such as   democratization, inequality, corruption, and regime change.” ’ ’  ’ ’’ ’     and intelligence agencies wishing to monitor   signal intelligence they deem relevant to an investigation  —   in   this case, suspected Russian interference in the 2016 election  —     must obtain what is known as a FISA warrant from the Foreign   Intelligence Surveillance Court. ’ ’government’s application for   the FISA warrant targeting Page, The Post reported, has been   renewed more than once, and ”included a lengthy declaration that   laid out investigators’ basis for believing that Page was an   agent of the Russian government and knowingly engaged in   clandestine intelligence activities on behalf of Moscow.” ’ ’   There were contacts Page had with Russian intelligence officials   that he did not disclose, according to The Post, and unanswered   questions about a court case involving a Russian spy who tried to   recruit him in 2013. ’ ’ obtained the court filing for   the case, which included a transcript of a conversation between   Victor Podobnyy, the person accused of spying, and Igor   Sporyshev, another Russian operative, about trying to recruit   someone identified as ” .” ’ ’   Page confirmed to BuzzFeed that he was ” .” But he said in a   statement later that his personal identity was made ”easily   identifiable” in the court documents because the US government   wanted to punish him for his ”public positions of dissent.” ’ ”   Page found himself at the center of a   firestorm in   late February after  that he met Russia’s ambassador to the US,   Sergey Kislyak, during an event at the Republican National   Convention. At least two other Trump associates, former adviser   J. D. Gordon and  . Jeff Sessions, now the US attorney   general, also spoke with Kislyak at the convention. ” ’   The White House has distanced itself from Page, insisting that he   was an ”informal” adviser to the campaign who left in early   September. Page had no badge, an administration official  and never   signed a   agreement  —   two requirements of anyone   working with the campaign in an official capacity. He also wasn’’t   on the campaign’’s payroll, the official said, and did not have a   campaign email account. ’ ”   The Senate Intelligence Committee, which is investigating   Russia’s interference in the 2016 election, has asked Page to   preserve all information related to contacts with Russians during   the campaign. He volunteered to be interviewed by the committee   last month. ” ’The FBI obtained a FISA warrant last summer to. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’