’  ’ ”   Tesla’s stock . ” ”   On Monday the carmaker’s market cap exceeded that of : $51 billion. This is about $15 billion more than   where Tesla was valued for much of 2016. And it’s about $7   billion more than Ford. ” ”   None of this makes any sense. Tesla’s business fundamentals   haven’t changed substantially since late last year, and its     deliveries  —   25, 000 vehicles  —   set a sales pace for   2017 that will see Tesla produce about only 100, 000 cars in 2017,   an improvement of 20, 000 over 2016. ” ”   One explanation for Tesla’s most recent surge could be that short   sellers (traders who had bet against Tesla) are finally throwing   in the towel and covering their positions. That, by definition,   would have them buying the shares. ” ’   This does make sense, as Tesla is one of the most   heavily shorted stocks on Wall Street and those short sellers   have been suffering lately.   firm  estimates that the   shorts have lost  this year. ’ ”   But given that Tesla was already heavily overvalued based on its   core business  —   building and selling luxury electric cars  —   and   that it has only a few billion dollars of assets to claim, it   would be logical for investors to start discounting the value of   Tesla’s future. ” ”   Now that it’s on a massive upward trajectory, its first quarter   2017 earnings loom as an opportunity for a more rational outlook   on the company’s valuation to take hold and could put new   investors at real risk of being flushed out. ” ”   But the manner in which Tesla spikes in the absence of real news   and in defiance of the numerous challenges it faces over the next   year becomes more alarming as the company’s paper value climbs   ever higher. Tesla bulls argue that Elon Musk’s enterprise will   be legitimately bigger than GM’s and Ford’s in the future because   electric transportation will displace   mobility over   the next few decades and Tesla has the best brand and largest   head start. ” ’  ’ ”   Bears insist that Tesla is a sucker’s game and a     scheme. They point to the company’s   inability to make money a decade into its existence, and to   Musk’s steady refusal to consolidate the business, preferring to   push forward and, for example, launch a   electric car   (the Model 3) later this year. Or create an     business. Or buy struggling,   SolarCity for over $2   billion. If the stock indeed represents a claim on future cash   flows, they point out that those future cash flows could be zero. ” ”   Both angles overlook the company’s most glaring problem, which is   that Tesla is a carmaker that still isn’t very good at making   cars. The cars that it does make are impressive (at Business   Insider, we’ve   them all). But Musk expects to be   delivering 500, 000 vehicles by 2018 and 1 million by 2020  —   the   former represents a fivefold increase over projected 2017   production, and the latter would require Tesla to either double   the capacity of its Fremont factory or build a new plant. ” ”   Viewed in this context, Tesla trading at $311 is flatly insane.   Even if it were to sell 1 million vehicles by 2020, most of them   would be   small cars. The most profitable market   segments  —   big SUVs and large pickup trucks  —   would still be   owned by the three Detroit automakers (GM, Ford, Fiat Chrysler   Automobiles) that the markets have decided are worthless in the   future than Musk’s operation. ” ’  ’ ”   The situation with Tesla’s valuation will probably get worse   before it gets rational. ” ”   The rally that began early this year occurred after another     fourth quarter. Anyone who is a hardcore Tesla short   simply needs to take solace in that Tesla’s stock chart has   always looked like a roller coaster; shares always go down,   typically taking billions in market cap with them. (GM, Ford, and   FCA charts, by contrast, look boring.) ” ”   A larger question is why Tesla has in the past three months so   wildly outperformed even   stock indexes, such as the   Nasdaq. Yes, the markets overall have enjoyed a rally since Trump   won the election. But Tesla has enjoyed a    —   one that’s   actually out of character with what shares generally do at the   beginning of a year, as investors recalibrate their expectations   and, if they’ve owned Tesla for a while, grab some profits. ” ”   Beyond trader dynamics  —   longs versus shorts  —   Tesla’s surge   isn’t driven by the company’s actual performance, and   that’s exactly what anyone calling a speculative Tesla bubble   would latch on to. But that’s also old news because Tesla’s   fundamentals have been analyzed to death, with the obvious   conclusion that a $  stock price demands a level of   execution that the company hasn’t yet reached. ” ”   At this point, a Tesla bubble looks obvious, and it looks as   obvious as it has since early this year. The difference now is   that it’s grown so large that it’s become terrifying. ” ”Tesla’s stock has been on a tear. On Monday the. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’