’  ’ ’   Tension was rising between the US and North Korea on Thursday as   the reclusive nation appeared to be gearing up for another   nuclear test. ’ ’   Intelligence officials told NBC News that the US was prepared to   launch a preemptive strike against North Korea with conventional   weapons if they were certain that the country was going to   perform another   test, according to an . ’ ’   The officials said that the US had two destroyers capable of   shooting Tomahawk cruise missiles into North Korea  —   the same   type of weapon used to strike a Syrian airfield last week. ’ ’   Voice of America’’s Washington bureau chief Steve Herman  that the US was readying a possible preemptive   strike, but said retaliation was ”likely” if North Korea   conducted another nuclear test. ’ ’   Other sources also came forward to challenge NBC’’s original   report. Fox News’’ national security correspondent Jennifer   Griffin  ”Multiple [senior] defense officials   say this report is ’’wildly wrong’’ ’’crazy. ’’ Pentagon pushing back   on NBC report, call it ’’extremely dangerous. ’’” ’ ’   Earlier Thursday, President Donald Trump said,  during remarks he gave after the US dropped a massive     bomb on an ISIS complex in Afghanistan. Trump said,   however, that the Afghanistan operation was not meant to be a   warning to North Korea. ’ ’   Still, aircraft bombers that were stationed in Guam may be   utilized to strike the Hermit Kingdom, according to NBC.   Additional forces, including the USS Carl Vinson aircraft carrier   strike group and a US Air Force   ” ” were being   relocated into the area of operations during the past week. ’ ’   North Korean officials mirrored the US statement on Wednesday,   saying that they would use a nuclear weapon to ”hit the US first”   if there were indications of a strike from the US. ’ ’   ”By relentlessly bringing in a number of strategic nuclear assets   to the Korean Peninsula, the US is gravely threatening the peace   and safety and driving the situation to the brink of a nuclear   war,” a North Korean statement read, according to NBC. ’ ’  ’ ”   Regardless of whether NBC’s source remains credible, recent   evidence suggests that North Korea may be  for its sixth nuclear test   underground. ” ’   Recent satellite images from 38 North, a research group from the     Institute at Johns Hopkins University, indicates   ”unusually high levels of activity” at the   nuclear   test site, the same location where four of the last tests were   conducted. This latest satellite imagery also comes amid another    that cited US officials saying   that a device at a nuclear test site ”could be detonated Saturday   or even sooner.” ’ ”   The Saturday in question also marks the 105th birth anniversary   of Kim Il Sung, North Korea’s founder. The nation has in the past   conducted other extravagant military displays on special dates  —     in April 2012, the country fired a   rocket prior to the   100th anniversary. That mission failed. ” ’   Officials from China, one of the few North Korean allies,   delivered a warning against continued provocations. ’ ’   ”Military force cannot resolve the issue,” Chinese Foreign   Minister Wang Yi said in a  on Thursday. ”Amid tensions we   will also find a kind of opportunity to return to talks.” ’ ’   ”Whoever provokes the situation, whoever continues to make   trouble in this place, they will have to assume historical   responsibility,” said Wang. ’ ’Tension was rising between the US and North. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’