’  ’ ’   Some of President Donald Trump’’s critics were quick to decry the   cost of dropping the ”” on an ISIS target in Afghanistan on Thursday. ’ ’   But the number heavily cited across social media,  was how much the US military paid for 20 such   bombs, technically called the Massive Ordnance Air Blast. ’ ’   The US Air Force dropped one MOAB  —   the largest nonnuclear bomb   in the US’’s arsenal  —   on an ISIS target in a remote part of far   northeast Afghanistan, . White House press secretary Sean Spicer    was to destroy ”a system of tunnels and caves   that ISIS fighters used to move around freely, making it easier   for them to target US military advisers and Afghan forces in the   area.” ’ ’   One MOAB costs about $16 million, and 20 have been produced,   according to the military equipment site . ’ ’   Many celebrities and other Trump critics used Twitter to express   their frustration at the administration authorizing the use of   such an expensive bomb, but they cited the total cost instead: ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tOne bomb. $314 MILLION. But let’s cut meals on wheels for Americans.  ” ’ ’t’t’tUseful context. Also, still a shit load of money to spend on a mass killing authorized by a game show host.  ’ ’ ’t’t’tThe ”mother of all bombs” dropped today in Afghanistan cost the US taxpayer $314 million. And yet America can’’t afford meals on wheels. ’t’t’ ” ’t’t’tNot 1 person in gov’t, can tell me this country doesn’t have enough money to fund social programs or water. We just dropped 314 million. ’t’t” ’ ’t’t’tHard to watch $314 mil spent on bombs instead of education, medical research, childhood hunger, environment & healthcare.   ’ ’ ’t’t’tThe bomb Trump just dropped on Afghanistan cost $314 million. Enough money to fix the water crisis in Flint almost three times over.  ’ ’ ’t’t’t”The Mother of All Bombs” cost 314 million dollars . make america (pay) great (taxes) again. ’t’t’ ’   For comparison, aircraft from the USS Harry S. Truman dropped    in Iraq and Syria from   late December 2015 to   2016 as part of the     Operation Inherent Resolve. A general purpose       costs about . ’ ”Some of President Donald Trump’s critics were. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’