’  ’ ’   A federal judge heard arguments in San Francisco on Friday in the   first legal challenges to President Donald Trump’’s executive   order cracking down on   ”sanctuary” cities. ’ ”   Lawyers representing San Francisco and Santa Clara County had   urged US District Judge William Orrick to grant a preliminary   injunction blocking the order, arguing that it violates   jurisdictions’ 10th Amendment rights and could deprive them of   billions of dollars in federal funding. ” ’   But a lawyer representing the Trump administration argued on   Friday that the scope of the order was ”narrow,” would apply   ”only to a limited range of grants,” and would affect possibly   none of San Francisco’’s funding and less than $1 million for   Santa Clara County, . ’ ’   The argument prompted Orrick to question what the point was of   Trump’’s executive order if the funding at stake was so minimal.   The Trump administration’’s lawyer Chad Readler replied that the   order was essentially a ”bully pulpit” meant to emphasize an   issue Trump cares deeply about. ’ ’   Orrick said he will try to issue a ruling as soon as possible,   the . ’ ’’ ’ signed Jan. 25, declared it would withhold   federal grant money from jurisdictions that violated federal   immigration law, prompting some cities and counties to fret over   police department budgets. ’ ’   At the heart of San Francisco and Santa Clara County’’s lawsuits   is the question of what the term ”sanctuary city” even means. No   legal definition exists, but the term is generally used to   describe jurisdictions that limit their cooperation with federal   immigration authorities in identifying and deporting immigrants. ’ ”   The Trump administration, however, appears to have defined the   term in the executive order as a jurisdiction that refuses to   comply with a federal law,  prohibiting government entities from   obstructing information on individuals’ citizenship or   immigration statuses. ” ”   Since most   sanctuary cities  —   including San Francisco   and those in Santa Clara County  —   say they already fully comply   with this law, it’s unclear whether they would be targeted for   federal grant funding cuts, even if those cuts were minimal. ” ’   Lawyers representing San Francisco and Santa Clara County argued   on Friday that the Trump administration is now trying to newly   interpret the order to save it from being blocked by the courts. ’ ’   ”The government argument boils down to the hope that President   Trump and Attorney General Sessions won’’t do what they are saying   they are going to do with this executive order,” Santa Clara   County’’s lawyer John Keker said. ’ ’   ”It’s a gun to your head. It exists right now in Santa Clara and   in San Francisco and, we think, all around the country.” ’ ’A federal judge heard arguments in San. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’