’  ’ ’   Gary Cohn, the director of the National Economic Council and   former president of Goldman Sachs, is enjoying his new role as an   increasingly influential adviser to President Donald Trump, but   he says Washington is a ”  ” according to a Thursday   . ’ ”   The White House has been consumed by  between warring camps led by   Trump’s more moderate    Jared Kushner, and Trump’s   chief strategist, Steve Bannon, an   Street economic   nationalist. ” ’   Cohn is reportedly working to cut through Washington drama and   politics to enact his agenda of reforming the tax code, crafting   an infrastructure plan, cutting financial regulations, and   renegotiating international trade agreements. ’ ’   He has hired about two dozen policy experts to help him develop   these plans, according to The Post. ’ ’   ”Cohn might be a newbie to policy and Washington, but you have to   give him credit for one thing,” Gene Sperling, the director of   the NEC under President Barack Obama, . ”While others seemed engaged in ideological   and ’’House of Cards’’  staff warfare, he quietly and quickly   focused on the first rule of governing: He hired some competent,   professional staff at the NEC, and it has paid off for him.” ’ ’’ ”   Cohn, who received a  when he left Goldman to advise Trump on   domestic and global economic policy in January, may have moved to   Washington, but he’s maintaining his ties to Wall Street. He   recently had drinks at the Four Seasons with Goldman CEO Lloyd   Blankfein, according to The Post. ” ”   Kushner, Cohn, and Dina Powell, a former Goldman colleague,   appear to be behind Trump’s recent shifts toward a more moderate   economic agenda. ” ’ Trump has retracted his criticism of   Federal Reserve Board Chair Janet Yellen; said he would not, as   he had promised, label China a currency manipulator; and   announced his support for government subsidies for exports. ’ ’   Much like Ivanka Trump, who  in July that she   voted based on policy, not party, Cohn frequently  that he is neither a Republican nor   a Democrat, but just wants to ”get things done,” according to The   Post. ’ ’Gary Cohn, the director of the National. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’