’  ’ ”   President Donald Trump’s White House will not release visitor   logs detailing who enters the White House complex, . ” ”   The decision, a split from the preceding administration of   President Barack Obama, came after months of speculation about   what Trump’s administration would do with the records. ” ’   White House communications director Michael Dubke told Time the   reversal from the Obama administration’’s policy was in the name   of ”the grave national security risks and privacy concerns of the   hundreds of thousands of visitors annually.” ’ ’   The logs, which are maintained by the Secret Service, will be   under wraps for at least five years after Trump leaves office.   Trump officials made a point to note to Time that the   Obama White House fought in court to keep elements of   its logs, which were at times incomplete, redacted or withheld.   Obama officials often took steps to get around the records, six   million of which were voluntarily released by the administration,   by meeting with individuals off the White House grounds, as Time   noted. ’ ’   Over the past few months, White House press secretary Sean Spicer   was pressed repeatedly about when the Trump administration   would be publishing the visitor logs. ’ ’’ ’   ”We’’re reviewing that now,” he told a reporter in late March. ’ ’   ”I think we should have an answer on our policy very shortly on   that,” he said earlier this week when asked. ’ ’   In March, a slew of Democratic lawmakers introduced the      Act, which would require disclosure of the visitor   logs at the White House and Trump properties where the president   frequents for government business. ’ ’   ”This stunning decision from the Trump White House raises an   obvious question: what is President Trump trying to hide?” Sen.   Tom Udall of New Mexico, the lawmaker who introduced the   legislation, said in a statement. ”Once again, this   administration is stonewalling information that Congress and the   American people have a right to see.” ’ ’   ”Americans simply deserve to know who has access to the president   and who is working to influence policy at the highest levels,” he   continued. ”The president brings unprecedented conflicts of   interest to the White House, and he already has taken actions in   office that suggest he is more concerned with helping people like   him  —   the wealthy and well —  connected  —   than he is with empowering   ordinary Americans. By refusing to release the White House   visitor logs, President Trump is confirming widespread concerns   that the special interests are getting special treatment in this   administration. The president’s promise to ’’drain the swamp’’ has   never rung more hollow than it does today.” ’ ’   Earlier this week, Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in   Washington, the National Security Archive and the Knight   First Amendment Institute at Columbia University sued the   Department of Homeland Security  —   which is the   department containing the Secret Service  —   for the visitor   logs at the White House,    and Trump Tower.  ’ ’   ”We hoped that the Trump administration would follow the   precedent of the Obama administration and continue to release   visitor logs, but unfortunately they have not,” CREW Executive   Director Noah Bookbinder said in a statement. ”Given the many   issues we have already seen in this White House with conflicts of   interest, outside influence, and potential ethics violations,   transparency is more important than ever, so we had no choice but   to sue.” ’ ’   After news of the Trump administration’’s decision broke,   Bookbinder wrote ”it looks like we’’ll see them in court.” ’ ’   ”It’s disappointing that the man who promised to ’’drain the   swamp’’ just took a massive step away from transparency by   refusing the release the White House visitor logs that the   American people have grown accustomed to accessing over the last   six years and that provide indispensable information about who is   seeking to influence the president,” he said in a statement. ”The   Obama administration agreed to release the visitor logs in   response to our lawsuits, and despite the Trump administration’s   worry over ’’grave national security risks and concerns,’’ only   positives for the American people came out of them.” ’ ”President Donald Trump’s White House will not. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’