’  ’ ’   BOSTON (AP)  —     star Aaron Hernandez, who is already serving   life sentence for 2013 murder, was acquitted Friday in a 2012   double slaying prosecutors said was fueled by his anger over a   spilled drink. ’ ’   The former tight end for the New England Patriots wept quietly as   the verdicts were read in Boston. Relatives of the victims sobbed   loudly. ’ ’   The jury found Hernandez not guilty of   murder in the   killings of Daniel de Abreu and Safiro Furtado. It convicted him   of a single charge: unlawful possession of gun. The judge   sentenced him to an additional four to five years in prison,   separate from his existing life sentence, for that conviction. ’ ’   Prosecutors said Hernandez opened fire on their car because he   felt disrespected when one of the men bumped into him and spilled   his drink at a Boston nightclub. ’ ’   The defense team pointed the finger at Alexander Bradley, a close   friend of Hernandez who was with him the night of the shootings. ’ ’’ ’   Hernandez was also acquitted Friday of shooting Bradley in the   face months later to try to silence him as a witness. ’ ”   Hernandez, 27, is already serving a life sentence for the 2013   killing of Odin Lloyd, a   football player who   was dating the sister of Hernandez’s fiancee. ” ”   Bradley claimed Hernandez became enraged after de Abreu bumped   into him while dancing, spilling his drink. He said Hernandez   later opened fire on the men’s car as they waited at a stoplight. ” ’   Bradley also said Hernandez shot him in the face months later   after he made a remark about the earlier shootings. Bradley lost   his right eye in the shooting. ’ ”   Hernandez’s lawyers said it was Bradley  —   an admitted drug dealer    —   who shot the men over a drug deal. The defense hammered at   Bradley’s credibility, citing his immunity deal with prosecutors   to testify against Hernandez, his role as the driver of the car   the night of the shootings and his criminal record. Bradley is   serving a   prison term in Connecticut for firing shots   at a Hartford nightclub in 2014. ” ”   Hernandez grew up in Bristol, Connecticut, and played for the   Patriots from 2010 to 2012. About six weeks after Furtado and de   Abreu were killed, Hernandez signed a   $40 million   contract with the Patriots and went on to play another season   before Lloyd was killed. He was cut from the team shortly after   he was arrested in Lloyd’s killed in June 2013. He was not   charged in the 2012 killings until 2014. ” ’   In his first trial, jurors deliberated for 36 hours over seven   days before convicting him of murder. ’ ’BOSTON (AP)  —     star Aaron. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’