’  ’ ”   Law enforcement leaders across the country are divided over how   best to tackle the Trump administration’s demands that local   authorities enforce federal immigration law. ” ’   Some sheriffs and police chiefs have bristled under the scrutiny,   while others have grown emboldened by the heightened authority. ’ ’   Attorney General Jeff Sessions appeared to deepen the rift   earlier this week when he addressed the International Association   of Chiefs of Police, reiterating his condemnations of     ”sanctuary” jurisdictions that refuse to enforce federal   immigration laws. ’ ’   ”Some mayors and city councils, and even a police chief and a   sheriff here and there, are refusing to work with the federal   government, choosing instead to protect the criminal aliens who   harm public safety,” Sessions said. ”For the sake of your   communities, families, and children, work with us, so we can   restore a lawful system of immigration and make our country a   safer place.” ’ ’   Although the term ”sanctuary city” remains undefined, it is   commonly used to refer to jurisdictions that limit their   cooperation with federal immigration authorities,   often through declining requests from the Immigration and   Customs Enforcement agency to detain suspected undocumented   immigrants. ’ ’   Sessions raised eyebrows last month when he  to   withhold federal grants from sanctuary jurisdictions. An   executive order signed by President Donald Trump in   January made similar threats, declaring it would   withhold money from localities that   violated federal immigration law. ’ ”   The decision, and Sessions’ continued strong rhetoric, has   provoked a strong backlash among some cities and counties  —   a   number of which have rushed to publicly defend themselves   decisions in recent weeks. ” ’   California, in particular, has moved to turn the entire state   into a ”sanctuary.” Earlier this week, the state senate   passed a bill prohibiting police and sheriffs from using   resources to arrest people for suspected immigration violations.   It is expected to pass the state assembly, but it’’s unclear   whether California’’s Democratic Governor Jerry Brown will sign   it, according to . ’ ”   While the bill has been hailed by immigration   advocates, police departments and sheriff’s offices have had   mixed reactions. ” ’   Charlie Beck, chief of the Los Angeles Police Department, has   said he agrees with the bill’’s ”underlying tenets” so long as   they don’’t protect criminals, according to . Yet the California State Sheriffs’’   Association is actively lobbying against the bill. ’ ’   ”All we are doing is providing information to the federal   government so that they can do their job. To restrict that   doesn’’t make sense,” Kern County Sheriff Donny Youngblood told   the New York Times. ’ ’  ’ ”   Some sheriffs feel so strongly about the issue that they’ve taken   to publicity stunts and aggressive media interviews to condemn   their law enforcement peers who disagree with the immigration   crackdown. ” ’   Milwaukee County Sheriff David Clarke, one of President Donald   Trump’’s staunchest supporters during his 2016 campaign, recently   accused sanctuary cities of offering more protections to ”illegal   immigrants” than to American citizens. ’ ’   ”They’’re aiding and abetting criminality when they allow safe   haven and safe harbor for people who are in the country illegally   and have been arrested or convicted to some very serious crimes,”   he said last month on the . ’ ’   ”The feds can withhold federal funding and I’’m hoping that they   do that because that’’s the carrot that we need to encourage   people  —   when I say ’’people,’’ law enforcement executives, elected   officials, mayors, governors who want to be sanctuary cities.” ’ ”   Clarke isn’t the only one speaking up. In Massachusetts last   month, one sheriff even suggested that elected officials in   sanctuary cities be jailed. ” ’   ”Longstanding immigration law is crystal clear. It’’s a     offense to harbor or conceal criminal illegal aliens from ICE,”   Bristol County Sheriff Thomas Hodgson said in his testimony to a   congressional subcommittee on immigration. ’ ’   ”No one is above the law and the officials of these sanctuary   cities who obstruct law enforcement should be held to the same   legal standards and face the same punishment as would you or I.” ’ ”   Despite what Hodgson’s statements, it is not illegal for local   law enforcement agencies to refuse ICE requests to detain   immigrants who have been arrested on      charges. Federal courts have ruled that detaining suspects past   their scheduled release dates without judicial warrants can   violate inmates’ Fourth Amendment rights. ” ”   Yet that hasn’t deterred Republican lawmakers from attempting to   crack down on the uncooperative jurisdictions. In Texas, a    through the state’s     legislature that would permit criminal   charges to be filed against elected officials that refuse to   enforce federal immigration law. ” ’   The bill cleared a House committee this week and could soon hit   the floor for a vote. Texas Governor Greg Abbott has expressed   militant opposition to sanctuary policies, and has   already withheld $1. 5 million in grant money from Travis County   after it recently  to decline most ICE detainers. ’ ’   But many other sheriffs and police chiefs have been reluctant to   cooperate more fully with federal immigration agents and   questioned the Trump administration on whether they are legally   able to do so. ’ ’   Homeland Security officials, including Secretary John Kelly, met   in late March with representatives from local law   enforcement agencies to discuss immigration enforcement. But the   meeting grew tense when discussion turned to cooperation on   federal requests to detain immigrants, . ’ ’   When a senior Homeland Security official said it’’s legal for   local police to detain suspected deportable immigrants until ICE   agents arrive, the police officials attending responded, ”Under   what authority?” sources told ABC. ’ ’   Law enforcement officials pressed the Trump administration at the   meeting to provide a coherent explanation of the term ”sanctuary   city.” Many of the  they came away from the meeting with no more   clarity on the issue. ’ ’   ”We think that as long as we’’re complying with federal law then   we shouldn’’t be labeled with whatever label intimates that we’’re   not,” LAPD Chief Beck told the . ’ ”   The debate over sanctuary policies is expected to come to a head   in the coming weeks, as a federal judge rules on whether to grant   a preliminary injunction blocking Trump’s Jan. 25 executive   order. ” ’   Lawyers for San Francisco and Santa Clara county argued in court   on Friday the order is unconstitutional and could deprive the   jurisdictions of billions of dollars in federal grant money, but   a lawyer for the Trump administration said that the order was   ”narrow” in intent, and would not result in a significant funding   cut. ’ ’Law enforcement leaders across the country are. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’