’  ’ ’   Alex Conant took a long pause to consider the question. ’ ’   Which seemingly unthinkable shift undertaken in recent days by   President Donald Trump stood out to him as the most surprising? ’ ’   ”There’’s been so many,” Conant, communications director for Sen.   Marco Rubio’’s 2016 presidential campaign, told Business Insider. ’ ”   After some thought, he settled on Trump’s change in posture   toward Russia. ” ’   ”He was very consistent on the campaign trail about wanting to   have a good relationship with Vladimir Putin. He knew that   bombing Assad was going to hurt that relationship, and yet he   went ahead with it,” Conant said of Trump’’s decision to launch   Tomahawk missiles at Syrian government targets last week. ’ ’   ”What seemed like a big priority for him on the campaign trail   became less of a priority once he was in office,” he added. ’ ’   That statement could be made about a laundry list of issues on   which Trump has altered his stance  —   many of which just within   the past 10 days.  ’ ’   The shifts have come at a . ’ ’   Trump bombed an airfield in Syria as retribution for a brutal   chemical weapons attack launched by Assad on Syrian civilians, a   split from his promises to only go after ISIS. As a result, as   Conant said, Trump angered Putin, who has tied himself   closely to the Assad regime. ’ ’   Also in the last week, Trump made a hard turn on China,   saying the country was not manipulating its currency less than   two weeks after calling them the ”world champions” of the   practice. A hallmark of his campaign, Trump had promised to label   China a currency manipulator on the first day of his presidency,   but a meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping helped to change   his mind, as Trump saw an option to negotiate with the Chinese   leader over North Korea. ’ ’   NATO, the transatlantic alliance that Trump famously said   was ”obsolete” was suddenly ”no longer obsolete” on Wednesday,   after a meeting with Secretary General Jens   Stoltenberg. The US   Bank, which Trump railed   against in the campaign as ”unnecessary,” became ”a very good   thing.” And Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen, whom he   criticized in the campaign, was now, in Trump’’s opinion, doing a   good job. ’ ’  ’ ”   The moves have coincided with a shakeout in the power   structure at the White House. Elevated is the centrist, Wall   Street wing, headed by National Economic Council Chair Gary Cohn,      and senior adviser Jared Kushner, and Ivanka Trump,   the president’s daughter who recently took on a White House job   as an assistant to her father. Losing out in this battle have   been conservative nationalists, such as chief strategist Steve   Bannon. ” ’   As Mike Allen wrote in Axios, Wednesday was the day ”Operation   Normal achieved supremacy,” and Thursday marked ”a new phase of   Trump’’s presidency.” Advisers like Cohn and  have the president’’s ear, while Bannon’’s   standing has fallen so far that one source close to the   strategist likened him to a terminally ill family member in   hospice care,  ’ ’   The change in  moving from a dreadful 35% approval rating in late   March to 41% on Wednesday in . ’ ’   ”It’’s maybe taken three months but he realizes the gravity of   what it actually means to be leader of the free world,” Reed   Galen,  ’ ’   Galen, now the owner of Jedburgh’’s, a political consultancy firm,   said Trump may also be realizing that ”managing a $14   trillion economy and however many people work for the federal   government is not like running the family construction business.” ’ ’   ”It’’s a totally different animal,” he continued. ”The United   States is not an 8 million person banana republic. It’’s 320   million people and the leader of the world, the liberal order of   the world, and a lot of those things just don’’t fit with Steve   Bannon’’s      kind of thing.” ’ ’  ’ ”   Conant said the changes are not necessarily the result of the   fallout of palace intrigue, but rather of a man who had no   governing experience prior to last November’s election now   dealing with information to which he may have never thought   he’d have the keys. ” ’   ”So with new information, it’’s obviously changed the way he   thinks about some issues,” said Conant, who added he was ”a   big fan” of how Trump has handled foreign policy in the past   week. ’ ’   He compared the shift to one made by President George W. Bush   after taking office. ’ ’   ”Don’’t forget, when Bush ran for president in 2000, he said that   he didn’’t think the US should be the world’’s policemen and that   we shouldn’’t be involved in nation building,” he said.   ”Obviously, once he was in office, events led him to change his   mind. I think we’’re seeing a similar phenomenon.”  ’ ’   Trump has received praise from a wide array of sources for some   of these moves. There was a sense of bipartisan approval of his   strike in Syria, and Republican senators such as Lindsey   Graham and Ben Sasse  —   two of his chief critics within the party    —   praised him for his flips on the     Bank and NATO. ’ ’   The moves even led Democratic National Committee Chair Tom Perez   to issue a statement countering the notion that Trump was   ” ” himself to be ”less extreme,” a signal that any   Democratic support for Trump will be   over at least   the next 18 months. ’ ’   ”Donald Trump’s latest ’’pivot’’ is another farce designed by Trump   to divert your attention,” Perez said. ”This time, he’s   distracting from his reckless and extreme agenda that has hurt,   not helped, countless hardworking Americans. The only plays Trump   can execute are lies and fearmongering  —   look no further than the   nationwide deportation force Trump has charged forth to create.   Trump is as likely to moderate as my Buffalo Bills are to win the   Super Bowl next season. It ain’t happening.” ’ ”   And during Thursday’s press briefing, White House press secretary   Sean Spicer left the room after being peppered with questions   about whether Trump’s decisions related to NATO and Chinese   currency manipulation were signs that his agenda was being tossed   out the door. ” ’   ”I think that’s a very, very complex issue and I think the   president  —   I’m going to leave it to the president to   specifically answer that,” Spicer, the top spokesman for the   president, said when pressed specifically on currency   manipulation. ’ ’  ’ ’   Trump seemed to take note of the chatter, tweeting   Wednesday evening:  ’ ’ Trump confidant and   adviser   Roger Stone said he wasn’’t ”seeing the flip flops” when asked by   host Chuck Todd. But if Trump decided to send boots on the ground   into Syria, Stone said ”that would be a violation of Trumpism.” ’ ’   Trumpism’’s most ardent followers were already dismayed by the   move to bomb Syria in the first place, and Thursday brought news   that the US had dropped the ”mother of all bombs” on Afghanistan   and . ’ ’   Conservative author and firebrand Ann Coulter seemed to   speak for many of Trump’’s   fans over the past   week,  ”Media THRILLED that Trump is   destroying his presidency,” after he ordered the missile strikes   in Syria. She : ”Meddling in the Middle East has   destroyed every president who’s ever tried it.” ’ ’   ”I expected to spend this part of the Trump presidency tweeting   that it’’s legal to deport anchor babies not arguing agst another   Mid East war,” . The author  with a number   of Trump’’s nominations tied to foreign policy, the   infiltration of Goldman Sachs executives in his administration,   and a failure to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act. ’ ’   As Galen said, the massive swings in his outlook are the product   of being the ”business guy” president who is not necessarily   ideological but looking ”for the best deal.” It’’s also a result   of his not having ”a lot of firm positions on anything.”  ’ ’   There was also a misguided idea, he said, that Trump could enter   Washington, DC, and ”change it all.” ’ ’   ”The inertia of the federal system and the US government and the   country as a whole is a very powerful force,” Galen said. ”And to   suddenly think you’’re going to go one day and, ’’I’’m going to   change it all! ’’ Like, you can do that on the margins probably,   but it’’s like turning an aircraft carrier. You can’’t turn an   aircraft carrier like you turn a PT boat.”  ’ ’   The most surprising shift, for Galen, is what he perceived as   an overall transition from being ”America First” on national   security to what he described as a ”soft neocon” stance. ’ ’   ”Where he’’s at as opposed to where he was nine days ago with     ’’America First’’ stuff  —   that’’s a pretty shocking   transition,” he said. ”We’’re not talking degrees of difference.   We’’re talking a full 180 degrees to a much more ’’soft neocon’’   perspective on the world from where he was. I say ’’soft neocon’’   because I don’’t think he’’s going to do nation building or   anything like that. At least not yet.” ’ ’   Still, the administration is missing a strategic vision for where   Trump wants the country to go, Galen said. ’ ’   ”’’Make America Great Again’’ is not a strategic plan, it is a   slogan on a red hat,” he said. ”Firing 59 missiles into Syria or   dropping the ’’MOAB’’ on Afghanistan is not a national security   doctrine, those are tactical responses to something that   happened. That’’s not a strategy.” ’ ’  ’ ”   Friday marked the 85th day of the Trump presidency  —   which   feels as if it’s been going on for three months or three years,   depending on whom you ask. ” ”   The swings in positions signal that Trump may end up moving to   the center before his first year is even half over. But as anyone   who watched the nearly    campaign, the tumultuous   transition period, or any of those first 85 days in office will   attest to, it’s too soon to make any such judgments. ” ’   ”I think it’’s far too soon to tell,” Conant said. ”We’’re not even   at the   marker yet. I think he has shown that he will not   sit idly by and let foreign events happen around him without any   sort of response. I think that is an important lesson in the   early days of his presidency, which could end up defining it   depending on how the world responds.” ’ ’   For Galen, the biggest lesson is simple: ”Every day is going to   be different.” ’ ’   ”One day he could believe this and the next day he could believe   that and what does it all boil down to? That instability is still   the order of the day,” he said. ”You just don’’t know what you’’re   going to get from one day to the next.” ’ ’Alex Conant took a long pause to consider the. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’