’  ’ ”   SAO PAULO (Reuters)   A judge in Brazil’s biggest city ruled this   week that a driver using the Uber   app is an employee   of the    company, threatening its business   model in one of its biggest markets. ” ’   Uber said it would appeal the decision on Tuesday by Judge   Eduardo Rockenbach Pires at the regional labor court in Sao   Paulo, which was made public in recent days. ’ ’   ”By connecting drivers and users, Uber creates thousands of   flexible opportunities for generating income,” the company said   in a statement. ’ ’   Pires ordered Uber to pay the driver 80, 000 reais ($25, 000)   including compensation for holidays, contribution to a severance   fund and 50, 000 reais in ”moral damages” related to attacks from   taxi drivers upset with Uber’’s competitive pricing model. ’ ”   The decision follows a similar ruling in a labor court in Minas   Gerais state, along with parallel cases in the United States,   Britain, Switzerland, and Europe’s highest court threatening to   subject Uber to higher costs and regulation. ” ”   The lower house of Brazil’s Congress has also threatened Uber’s   business model with a bill requiring it and other     apps to register with city authorities as conventional taxi   services. President Michel Temer has pledged to veto parts of the   legislation if it passes the Senate. ” ’  ’ ”   Adding to Uber’s challenges, a Reuters investigation found a     increase in attacks on drivers in Sao Paulo last year,    after the start of   cash payments on its platform at the end of July. ” ’   Uber has encountered challenges in several Latin American markets   as it has tried to expand into the region. ’ ”   In late 2015, the city council in Rio de Janeiro  unregulated     services. In May 2016, the mayor of São Paulo  under which Uber would   be allowed to operate in the city, South America’s largest,   overriding efforts by that city’s council to ban Uber and similar   services. ” ’  ’ ’   The   service has met stiffer resistance in Argentina. ’ ”   In April 2016, just a day after Uber began operating in Buenos   Aires, a court in the city  to take steps to half   Uber’s operations there. ” ’   In December, a prosecutor there  Uber drivers and managers   for operating unregulated vehicles and tax evasion. ’ ”   Authorities in Colombia have also  on Uber’s operations   there. ” ”   Throughout the region, taxi drivers have often been the most   active in resisting Uber’s entry to their market. ” ’   In Mexico last year, a protest against the   service   in Guadalajara  as protesters and Uber   supports came to blows in confrontations that ”paralyzed the   roadways.” ’ ’   (Reporting for Reuters by Brad Haynes; editing by G Crosse) ’ ”SAO PAULO (Reuters)   A judge in Brazil’s. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’