’  ’ ’   President Donald Trump launched into an early morning tweetstorm   Sunday, the day after national protests demanding he release his   tax returns. ’ ’   In a series of tweets, Trump first responded to critics who have   highlighted that following his meeting with Chinese President Xi   Jinping, he has reversed on his promise to declare China a   currency manipulator. ’ ’   During the 2016 campaign, the   presidential   nominee  that China was manipulating its currency to boost   exports, a policy that cost American manufacturing jobs. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tWhy would I call China a currency manipulator when they are working with us on the North Korean problem? We will see what happens! ’t’t’ ”   After wishing America a  he blasted organizers of Saturday’s Tax March.   The nationwide protest urged Trump to release his tax   returns, a presidential tradition he has declined to uphold. ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tI did what was an almost an impossible thing to do for a   won the Electoral College! Now Tax Returns are brought up again? ’t’t’ ’ ’t’t’tSomeone should look into who paid for the small organized rallies yesterday. The election is over! ’t’t’ ”   Saturday’s Tax March protest was  by a network of     groups whose support and sponsorship was public on   the march’s website. Organizers reported that a total of 100, 000   protesters participated in Tax March events across the US. ” ’   The march came as Democratic lawmakers renewed their calls for   the president to release his tax returns. ’ ’   In a video released Friday, Sen. Elizabeth Warren questioned   whether Trump was attempting to hide mob ties or unsavory   foreign business connections. ’ ’   ”Who really calls the shots over the man who now sits in   the White House?” Warren asked. ”He could clear this up just   like that if he would make his taxes public.” ’ ’   Confronted repeatedly by his refusal to release his tax returns,   Trump has claimed that he will release them when he is no longer   under audit from the IRS, though there are no rules stipulating   that he cannot release his tax returns while he is under audit. ’ ’President Donald Trump launched into an early. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’