’  ’ ”   Samsung’s big test is coming in less than a week. ” ”   On April 21, customers will get their hands on the Galaxy S8,   Samsung’s first flagship phone since the embarrassing Galaxy Note   7 debacle that damaged the company’s reputation and wiped about    from its value last year. ” ’   Not a good look. ’ ’   But early impressions of the Galaxy S8 have been amazing. ’ ’   From a design perspective, the phone features a gorgeous curved   screen that takes up almost the entire front of the phone.   (Samsung calls it an ”Infinity Display” because it gives you the   impression that there are minimal borders on the sides.) It’’s   also made from all glass and metal, with a svelte body that feels   great in the hand or pocket. ’ ’’ ’   Overall, the phone features a larger screen in a slim and light   package. The iPhone looks chunky by comparison. The Galaxy   S8 is the early favorite for the best phone of 2017. ’ ”   Plus, there are loads of thoughtful hardware innovations like   wireless charging and a     camera that has yet to be   beaten by competitors. Even after last year’s stumbles, it feels   like Samsung is gearing up for a major redemption thanks to the   Galaxy S8. (As long as the battery doesn’t explode again, of   course.) ” ”   Still, there are a few concerns ahead of the launch. Samsung was   forced to admit Tuesday that its new voice assistant Bixby won’t   be ready when the phone launches. That’s probably a good thing,   given that Bixby struggled to work properly in an early demo I   saw a few weeks ago. But it’s an embarrassing admission by   Samsung that it can’t keep pace with the growing     category dominated by Amazon, Apple, and Google. ” ”   Samsung’s decision to create Bixby didn’t make much sense in the   first place, since the phone will also ship with Google   Assistant, Android’s excellent digital helper. That threatens to   confuse users with two different assistants on the same device.   Good luck with that. ” ”   And until Bixby does launch with a software update later this   spring, the dedicated Bixby button on the side of the phone won’t   serve a purpose at all. That’s another bad look at a time Samsung   needs to really wow users again to make up for last year’s   embarrassments. ” ”   All that said, the Galaxy S8 will likely live up to most of its   expectations. Samsung hasn’t commented specifically on demand,   but did say the phone saw growth in   in the US over   last year’s Galaxy S7, which was also well received.  ” ’   If I had to bet, most people will look beyond the relatively   minor software flubs Samsung is making with the Galaxy S8 and   instead focus on the innovative hardware and design. Frankly, the   iPhone has never looked so far behind in those categories. ’ ”Samsung’s big test is coming in less than a. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’