’  ’ ”   TheBlaze and its founder, Glenn Beck, are  the network’s former star,   Tomi Lahren, after she  against them on grounds of   wrongful termination, though the company disputes terminating her   and says she continues to be paid.  ” ’   Lahren’’s original lawsuit said that she was terminated for   expressing   views at a March 17 appearance on   ABC’’s ”The View.” During her interview, Lahren said she   could not ”sit here and be a hypocrite and say I’’m for limited   government, but I think the government should decide what women   do with their bodies.”  ’ ’   Lahren’’s  that as a result of her   comments, she was contacted by TheBlaze’’s human resources   department and informed that she would be suspended indefinitely   ”all because of her   opinions expressed on The View.”   The suit also said that the company continued to pay her   after informing her that her ”services were no longer   needed.”  ’ ’   The  from Beck and TheBlaze was   filed on the grounds that Lahren breached her employment contract   by making public statements that reflected negatively on the   network. It claimed that it never terminated Lahren, stating that   the company ”relied on the industry standard ’’pay of play’’   provision in her contract” which allowed the company to cease   broadcasting Lahren’’s show while continuing to pay her. The suit   also disputed Lahren’’s claims that her email account was   terminated and that TheBlaze had blocked access to her Facebook   page.  ’ ’   ”TheBlaze never had access to Lahren’’s personal social media   accounts and has taken no action to block her from using them  —     as can be demonstrated by her continuous Twitter stream and   Instagram posts,” the countersuit said.  ’ ’’ ’   Moreover, it highlighted a litany of instances   involving alleged workplace misconduct that the company said   factored into its decision not to broadcast her show   anymore. That included allegations that Lahren mistreated   the floor crew, was heard complaining about TheBlaze and saying   that she would take over the company, created conflicts with   other media personalities at the network, and publicly   ”embarrassed” the company ”because her statements were uninformed   and inconsistent.”  ’ ’   Her comments on The View, the suit said, ”demonstrated an   apparent   from opinions she had previously expressed . ..   [and] were simply the latest in a series of events that led   TheBlaze management to conclude that TheBlaze did not intend to   extend her contract beyond the end of its term in September   2017.”  ’ ’   The countersuit outlined the plaintiff’’s request that Lahren be   prohibited from ”making any public appearances without TheBlaze’’s   prior approval” and from ”issuing any public statements or press   releases” related to herself, her employment at the network, or   anything involving the network and its employees without   TheBlaze’’s prior approval. It also requested that she be barred   from making any statements that could reflect negatively on her   employer, and that she cover fees associated with filing the   countersuit.  ’ ’TheBlaze and its founder, Glenn Beck, are. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’