’  ’ ’   The search for    Steve Stephens  —   dubbed the ”Facebook   killer” by some  —   is now a national manhunt, Cleveland police   said Monday evening. Stephens got his moniker because he posted a   video on Facebook which depicted him pulling a gun and   shooting and killing    Robert Godwin on Sunday. ’ ’   Philadelphia police said    Monday afternoon while authorities investigated reported   sightings of Stephens. Authorities also said that there had been   no evidence that Stephens was in the Philadelphia area. ’ ’   Cleveland police are offering a $50, 000 reward for information   related to Stephens and authorities say to contact police if he’’s   spotted. So far, officials said, they have received ”dozens and   dozens” of tips related to Stephens from Facebook users.  ’ ’   Police said Monday morning Stephens ”may be out of state at   this time,” and could be in Ohio, Pennsylvania, New York,   Indiana, or Michigan. The search had expanded beyond those states   by the evening. Officials said residents should stay on   alert for the suspect and Cleveland police chief Calvin Williams   told reporters that Stephens ”is considered armed and dangerous,”   adding that the situation had been ”traumatizing” for the   community.  ’ ’ went viral on Sunday, after Stephens   posted a video on Facebook that showed the act, which Stephens   allegedly committed after Godwin had enjoyed an Easter meal with   his children. ’ ’’ ’   In the horrific video, which authorities confirmed was   legitimate, Stephens could be heard driving down the road and   saying, ”Found me somebody I’m going to kill, this guy right   here, this old dude.” Stephens then exited the car and approached   Godwin. ’ ”   He asked Godwin how old he was before pulling out a gun and   pointing it at Godwin’s head. Godwin could be seen attempting to   shield himself before Stephens fired the gun, killing Godwin. He   then walked back to his car and drove off. ” ’   Stephens and Godwin did not appear to know each other, according   to authorities. ’ ’   ”From what we can tell now, it’’s just a random person that he   picked out. We don’’t know why,” Williams, the police chief, said. ’ ’   Stephens’’ mother  that when she last saw him on Saturday, he told her   that it would be ”a miracle” if she ever saw him again. She added   that when they spoke the next day, he told her that he was   killing people because he was angry at his girlfriend. In another   video Stephens recorded, he claimed to have murdered 13 people   and said he was going to kill more. ’ ’   ”I snapped   …     I just snapped . .. I killed 13 people, and I’m about   to keep killing until   …     until they catch me,     it,” Stephens   said on the phone, speaking to a friend or family member. He   could also be heard encouraging the person on the other end to   watch the video of the murder he’’d uploaded on Facebook. ’ ’   Facebook took the video down after multiple people reported it,   though it took the tech giant  to do so, garnering criticism from some.  for graphic   content that users have posted to the site, such as a . ’ ’   ”We work hard to keep a safe environment on Facebook and are in   touch with law enforcement in emergencies when there are direct   threats to physical safety,” a company spokesperson said in a   statement on Sunday. ’ ’   Williams told reporters Monday morning that Stephens has a number   of motor vehicle and traffic violations but no criminal record.   Stephens was last seen wearing a dark blue and gray or black   striped polo shirt. He was driving a white Ford Fusion with   temporary license plates, Cleveland police said.  ’ ’The search for    Steve Stephens  —  . ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’