’  ’ ”   Another woman has accused Fox News star Bill O’Reilly of unwanted   advances and sexual harassment,  on Tuesday. ” ’   The woman, an unnamed   clerical worker at Fox   News, alleges that in 2008, O’’Reilly leered at her and called her   ”hot chocolate,” her attorney, Lisa Bloom, told the   Reporter.  ’ ”   Bloom also represents Wendy Walsh, a former Fox News contributor   whose claim that O’Reilly reneged on a job offer after she   rebuffed his advances in 2013 was detailed in an explosive    earlier   this month. The report found that the host and Fox News had   paid out $13 million to 5 women who had accused O’Reilly of   unwanted advances. ” ”   The latest accuser, Bloom said, did not work for O’Reilly   while she was harassed, but that his office was near her desk. ” ’   ”He would never talk to her, not even hello, except to grunt at   her like a wild boar,” Bloom said. ”He would leer at her. He   would always do this when no one else was around and she was   scared.” ’ ’   Bloom added that her client is not looking for any payment and   that ”she just wants them to know her story.” Addressing the   fact that the woman came forward about her experience 9 years   after the fact, Bloom said her client was afraid she would   be fired ”if she told him to knock it off.”  ’ ’   She continued: ”Now that she’’s aware this is all in the news,   she’’s decided to phone in a complaint to the Fox News hotline.” ’ ’   O’’Reilly’’s attorney, Marc E. Kasowitz, disputed the latest   accusation against his client in a  released after the story broke. ”It   is outrageous that an allegation from an anonymous person about   something that purportedly happened almost a decade ago is being   treated as fact, especially where there is obviously an   orchestrated campaign by activists and lawyers to destroy Mr.   O’’Reilly and enrich themselves through publicity driven   donations,” the statement said.  ’ ’ ’ ’ : New statement from Bill O’Reilly’s attorney >>  ’ ”   Bloom and Walsh also separately phoned in Walsh’s complaint   against O’Reilly to the hotline, after which the network’s parent   company, 21st Century Fox, announced it was  into Walsh’s   claim.  ” ’   The allegations against O’’Reilly date back to 2002 and include   complaints of verbal abuse, lewd comments, unwanted advances, and   phone calls ”in which it sounded as if Mr. O’’Reilly was   masturbating, according to documents and interviews,” the Times   reported.  ’ ”   O’Reilly embarked on an abrupt   vacation amidst fallout   from the accusations against him and .  ” ’Another woman has accused Fox News star Bill. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’