’  ’ ”   21st Century Fox on Wednesday said primetime host Bill O’Reilly   wouldn’t return to Fox News, ending weeks of speculation about   his future at the outlet. ” ”   The company’s statement  that Fox was preparing to cut ties with O’Reilly   in light of a barrage of   allegations. ” ’   ”After a thorough and careful review of the allegations, the   Company and Bill O’’Reilly have agreed that Bill O’’Reilly will not   be returning to the Fox News Channel,” 21st Century Fox, the   parent company of Fox News, said in the statement. ’ ”   O’Reilly had spearheaded the networks’ primetime lineup for over   two decades. He’s currently on vacation in Italy and was set to   return on April 24. ” ’   Tucker Carlson will take over O’’Reilly’’s 8 p. m. Eastern time   slot, Fox News said. O’’Reilly’’s show, ”The O’’Reilly Factor,” will   air the rest of this week with guest hosts. ’ ’’ ’   In an internal memo obtained by Business Insider, News Corp.   Executive Chairman Rupert Murdoch and his sons, Lachlan and   James, said that ”after a thorough and careful review of   allegations against him, the company and Bill O’’Reilly have   agreed that Mr. O’’Reilly will not return to the Fox News Channel. ’ ’   ”This decision follows an extensive review done in collaboration   with outside counsel,” the memo said. ’ ”   The memo also praised O’Reilly’s successes. ” ’   ”By ratings standards, Bill O’’Reilly is one of the most   accomplished TV personalities in the history of cable news,” the   memo said. ”In fact, his success by any measure is indisputable.   Fox News has demonstrated again and again the strength of its   talent bench. We have full confidence that the network will   continue to be a powerhouse in cable news.” ’ ’   The memo closed by saying the Murdochs wanted to ”underscore”   their ”consistent commitment to fostering a work environment   built on the values of trust and respect.” ’ ”   The news of O’Reilly’s departure comes on the heels of an    from his show’s time   slot. Earlier this month, The New York Times published an   investigation that found that O’Reilly and Fox News had  to five women to settle     claims they had brought against him. ” ”   Multiple other women have accused O’Reilly of sexual harassment   since. On Tuesday, an unnamed black woman said through her   attorney, Lisa Bloom, that O’Reilly    in 2008. Bloom is also representing Wendy Walsh, a former Fox   News contributor who has said that O’Reilly reneged on an offer   of employment after she rebuffed his advances and declined an   invitation to his hotel suite in 2013. ” ”   Walsh and the unnamed woman both reported their experiences to   the Fox News hotline. 21st Century Fox said after Walsh had   called the hotline that it was  into O’Reilly’s   conduct. ” ’ Sonam Sheth contributed to this report. ’ ’21st Century Fox on Wednesday said primetime. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’