’  ’ ”   The FBI reportedly    detailing President Donald Trump’s alleged ties to Russia to   bolster its case for a warrant that would allow it to surveil   Carter Page, an early   adviser to Trump’s campaign. ” ”   It’s a key signal that the FBI had enough confidence in the   validity of the document to work to corroborate it and present it   in court. ” ’  ’ ’   ”So, if the CNN report is accurate, then I have to believe that   the FBI and Department of Justice concluded (and the Court   agreed) that the info in the dossier about Page was reliable,”   Rizzo said, ”and in all liklihood was backed up by other   available intelligence.”  ’ ’   The FBI has been using the dossier as a ”roadmap” for its   investigation into Russia’’s interference in the 2016 presidential   election since last year, the  last month. The document   itself was not central to the bureau’’s argument before a Foreign   Intelligence Surveillance Court judge that Page could have been   acting as an agent of Russia, . ’ ’   But the raw intelligence contained in the   collection of   memos  —   written by the former British intelligence operative   Christopher Steele, who spent 20 years spying for MI6 in Moscow  —     apparently  that Page   could be acting as an agent of a foreign power. ’ ”   Some experts have accused the FBI of having political motivations   for entering the document into evidence. Others are skeptical   that the bureau would have needed to use the dossier at all to   bolster its case against Page, an energy consultant turned     adviser. Page was already on the FBI’s radar   because of his ties to a Russian spy who had posed as a UN   attaché in New York City in 2013. ” ’   A former senior intelligence officer, who requested anonymity to   discuss the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act process   candidly, told Business Insider on Wednesday that using this kind   of raw intelligence to build a case for a FISA order was ”not   uncommon.” ’ ’   ”Bear in mind that what one must do in the FISC is to persuade a   judge that there is probable cause to believe that someone is the   agent of a foreign power,” the officer said. ’ ’   That probable cause is laid out in a ”declaration,” he added,   which is the ”new federal term for an affidavit.” The declaration   is then ”generally signed by the agency head”  —   in this case, FBI   Director James Comey  —   ”and cites the evidence that has been   obtained” by the relevant agency. ’ ’  ’ ’   According to officials who spoke to  the FBI’’s declaration to   the FISC ”laid out investigators’’ basis for believing that Page   was an agent of the Russian government and knowingly engaged in   clandestine intelligence activities on behalf of Moscow.” ’ ”   The dossier, parts of which have been corroborated by the US   intelligence community, alleges that Page was a liaison between   the Trump campaign and Russian officials during the campaign. It   also alleges that while in Moscow in July, Page and his   associates were offered the brokerage of a 19% stake in Russia’s   state oil company in exchange for the lifting of US sanctions on   Russia. ” ’   While the evidence put forward in declarations is ”usually   obtained from an intercept, it need not be,” according to the   former intelligence officer. ”The evidence need not be of the   quality that would be admitted into a trial.” ’ ”   The bar for obtaining a FISA order is fairly low. But evidence   cited in declarations must still be corroborated through an   agency’s investigations before it is submitted to the court,   officials familiar with the matter told CNN. ” ’   Steve Slick, a former CIA operations officer and National   Security Council official, told Business Insider that for   the application to be approved, as it was in Page’’s case,   the FISC judge and the reviewing officials at the Department of   Justice would have needed to be ”satisfied” that the application,   as a whole, had a ”sufficient factual basis,” Slick said. ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’   Page was brought onto the Trump campaign in the spring of 2016    Corey   Lewandowski, reports have said. He has denied the allegations   against him, calling them an ”illegal” form of ”retribution” for   a speech he gave at the New Economic School in Moscow in July, in   which he slammed the US for a ”hypocritical focus on ideas such   as democratization, inequality, corruption, and regime change.” ’ ’   That trip to Moscow  —     —   raised new red   flags at the FBI. The bureau sought and obtained the FISA order   shortly after. ’ ’   Page told Business Insider recently that he thought the FISA   requests were ”unjustified.” But the government’’s application for   the FISA order has been renewed more than once, and there were   contacts Page had with Russian intelligence officials that he did   not disclose, according to The Post. ’ ’     ’ ’The FBI reportedly used the explosive. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’