’  ’ ’   The Department of Justice is reportedly considering criminal   charges against WikiLeaks and its founder Julian Assange for   their roles in several leaks dating back to 2010, multiple news   outlets reported on Thursday. ’ ’   WikiLeaks was one of several publications that published   sensitive military files obtained from a former US Army   intelligence analyst several years ago  —   and more recently    that it said   detailed the hacking tools and techniques used by the CIA for   foreign espionage in what appeared to be the largest leak of CIA   documents in history. ’ ’   Potential charges against WikiLeaks include conspiracy, theft of   government property, or violating the Espionage Act, according to    and . ’ ’   Assange is currently living out of the Ecuadorian embassy in   London  —   avoiding arrest on a separate warrant for a rape charge   in Sweden. Much to the US’s chagrin,   Lenín   Moreno, who was recently confirmed the winner of Ecuador’s   presidential election after a recount, supports Assange and had   no plans for his extradition. ’ ”   It was unclear whether an official memo on the matter, still in   the early stages, was drafted to pursue charges for the   organization’s role in leaks that damaged the Democratic Party   during the 2016 presidential election. ” ”   In 2010, WikiLeaks made available to the public thousands of   classified cables and documents from the military and the State   Department. However, during President Barack Obama’s tenure, the   Justice Department decided against charging WikiLeaks, reasoning   that it would be too difficult and similar to prosecuting a news   organization that published classified information, The Post   reported. ” ’  ’ ”   Attorney General Jeff Sessions, who was appointed by President   Donald Trump, said prosecutors were taking another look at the   previous administration’s findings. ” ’   ”We are going to step up our effort and already are stepping up   our efforts on all leaks,” Sessions said in a news conference on   Thursday. ”This is a matter that’’s gone beyond anything I’’m aware   of.” ’ ’   ”We have professionals that have been in the security business of   the United States for many years that are shocked by the number   of leaks and some of them are quite serious,” Sessions continued.   ”So yes, it is a priority. We’’ve already begun to step up our   efforts and whenever a case can be made, we will seek to put some   people in jail.” ’ ’   In the more recent leak in March,   files were published    —   allegedly by way of a CIA employee or contractor who operated a   tool normally used by the spy agency to infiltrate various   electronic devices, from smartphones to smart televisions and   computers. ’ ’   Thousands of   files were leaked after the infiltrator   used an ”attack code”  —   which could be used to break into   products from companies like Apple, Google, Samsung, and   Microsoft  —   to ”gain unauthorized access to computers and   smartphones,” especially if software updates meant to patch   certain vulnerabilities weren’’t available. The breach has since   been  to as ”Vault 7” by WikiLeaks. ’ ’  ’ ’   CIA spokeswoman Heather Fritz Horniak  a stern rebuke against WikiLeaks   for its part in Vault 7. ’ ’   ”The American public should be deeply troubled by any WikiLeaks   disclosure designed to damage the intelligence community’s   ability to protect America against terrorists and other   adversaries,” Horniak said. ”Such disclosures not only jeopardize   US personnel and operations, but also equip our adversaries with   tools and information to do us harm. ’ ’   The Justice Department’’s charges also coincide with the sharp   rhetoric from CIA director Mike Pompeo earlier this month, who   called WikiLeaks ”a   hostile intelligence service often   abetted by state actors like Russia.” ’ ’   Representatives for WikiLeaks  —   who claim that the US Justice   Department had not discussed the matters with them despite   requests  —   remain steadfast in their belief that there is ”no   legitimate basis” for the Justice Department to treat their   organization differently than other news outlets, The Post   reported. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”The fact of the matter is  —   however frustrating it might be to   whoever looks bad when information is published  —   WikiLeaks is a   publisher, and they are publishing truthful information that is   in the public’s interest,” said Barry J. Pollack, Assange’’s   attorney. ”Democracy thrives because there are independent   journalists reporting on what it is that the government is   doing.” ’ ’   Pollack also added that he wished the new administration would be   ”more respectful, not less respectful of the First Amendment than   the prior administration was.” ’ ’   The news also brought about consternation from civil rights   advocates. ”Never in the history of this country has a publisher   been prosecuted for presenting truthful information to the   public,” Ben Wizner, director of the American Civil Liberties   Union’’s Speech, Privacy, and Technology Project, said in a   statement. ”Any prosecution of Wikileaks for publishing   government secrets would set a dangerous precedent that the Trump   administration would surely use to target other news   organizations.” ’ ’The Department of Justice is reportedly. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’