’  ’ ’   An   group is advertising ”student body armor” in states   that allow people to carry firearms on college campuses. ’ ’   The satirical commercial shows students cheerfully modeling   hoodies and other apparel emblazoned with the University of Texas   logo  —   except each item has bulky, bulletproof body armor built   in. ’ ’   ”Don’’t get caught in the crossfire, get Student Body Armor,” a   narrator says. ”A proprietary blend of   body armor and   school pride.” ’ ”   The  of   the gear runs from $700 for a   to $29, 999 for a fully   protective body suit. However, the gear isn’t actually for sale  —     the commercial is a protest against guns in schools. ” ’   ”We wanted to take a stance that’’s lighthearted and apply it to a   topic that’’s generally really dark and stressful in America,”   Jessica Jin, the founder of the group behind the ad campaign,   told Business Insider. ’ ’   Ten states have on the books  that allows people to possess firearms on public   campuses. ’ ’   But those laws are often the result of lawmakers succumbing to   pressure from gun groups like the National Rifle Association, Jin   said, adding that students and members of school leadership are   rarely consulted. The Student Body Armor concept was a chance to   invite young people into the conversation, she said. ’ ’   ”It’’s an alternative narrative to the NRA’’s messaging for the   last 40 years, that guns equals safety. A lot of millennials   don’’t feel the same way,” she told Business Insider. ’ ”   Jin’s group, Cocks Not Glocks, is no stranger to controversial   campaigns. Last year, the group organized a  at the University of Texas in which hundreds of   students brandished sex toys  —   illegal to carry in public, under   a Texas obscenity statute  —   to protest against handguns, which   were legalized on campuses . ” ’   ”We’’re fighting absurdity with absurdity,” Jin said. ’ ’  ’ ’   The group enlisted ad agency FCB New York to design the   bulletproof apparel and shoot the commercial. ’ ”   The agency had real students try on the gear at one point in the     spot, which led to some angry feedback from those   unaware the product was satirical, FCB’s chief creative officer   Ari Halper said. ” ’   ”They were disgusted we would profit off the fact that guns are   allowed in these universities,” he told Business Insider. ’ ’   However, by the end of the commercial, the narrator makes clear:   Student Body Armor is a joke, even if campus carry laws are not. ’ ’   ”Price too steep? Not to worry. Protect yourself for free,” the   narrator says. ”Just call your local representative and tell them   campus carry is almost as ridiculous as Student Body Armor.” ’ ’ ’ ’An   group is advertising ”student body. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’