’  ’ ’   One police officer was killed and two more were   injured in a shooting in Paris on Thursday, multiple news outlets   are reporting. ’ ’   According to  an attacker jumped out of a car and opened fire   on a police van at around 9 p. m. local time on the     in central Paris. Reports stated the gunman was using an   automatic Kalashnikov rifle. He attempted to flee but was   killed by return fire. ’ ’   ISIS  for the attack through Amaq, a news agency   associated with the terror group. A police spokeswoman said the   attacker appeared to be acting alone, according to the  although  that police have issued a warrant for   the arrest of a second suspect.  ’ ’   The two injured officers are in serious condition, according to   Reuters, citing the French Interior Ministry, despite prior   reports that one of them had died.  ’ ’   Shortly after the attack, French President Francois Hollande said   authorities were convinced it was ””   according to Reuters. But Reuters also cited  who say it may have been an attempted armed   robbery, and a French Interior Ministry spokesman said it   was too early to identify a motive. ’ ’   ”We must all be aware that our security forces do work that is   particularly difficult, that they are exposed, as one can see   again this evening, and that they have the nation’s full   support,” Hollande said. ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tUPDATE: French President Hollande says convinced Paris shooting was ’ ’; will hold security cabinet meeting Friday morning’t’t” ’ the gunman was a French national who was   known to police for ”radical Islamist activities.” He had shot   and wounded three police officers in 2001, and had also   been involved in violent robberies, CNN reported. Authorities   searched his home in a suburb of eastern Paris on Thursday. ’ ’   Police closed off the   and urged the   public to avoid the popular shopping area. ’ ’  ’ ’   Security in Paris was increased this week ahead of the French   presidential election on Sunday. Two men were arrested on Tuesday   for planning an ”imminent and violent attack” before the vote.   There is no information linking Tuesday’’s arrests with Thursday’’s   shooting, The Guardian reported. ’ ’   Two candidates in the French election, Francois Fillon and Marine   Le Pen, cancelled campaign events scheduled for Friday, according   to ITV. ’ ’   US President Donald Trump was briefed on the attack and   acknowledged it during a press conference on Thursday. ’ ’   ”Condolences from our country to the people of France,” Trump   said. ”It’’s a terrible thing that’’s going on in the world today. ’ ’   ”It looks like another terrorist attack. And what can you   say  —   it never ends,” he added. ” ’ ’A gunman killed a police officer and injured. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’