’  ’ ”   Staffers who worked on Hillary Clinton’s 2016 campaign for   president are pushing back on how they were characterized in a   devastating new book on the Democratic nominee’s White House bid. ” ’   Jonathan Allen and Amie Parnes wrote in ”” that Clinton’’s   campaign lacked vision and was filled with infighting staffers   who were more concerned about their own careers than they were   about helping the candidate win. ’ ’   Many staffers have publicly voiced their issues with the book. ’ ’   Christina Reynolds, a deputy communications director for the   campaign,  that ”it’’s hard to read   a depiction of the campaign that paints a dedicated, cohesive   team as mercenaries with questionable motives who lacked a   loyalty to a candidate described as ’’imperial’’ and removed from   the campaign.” ’ ’   ”That’’s just not the campaign, the staff or the candidate I was   in the trenches with for 18 months,” Reynolds wrote. ’ ’   While Reynolds didn’’t dispute any specific allegations in the   book  —   she said she wasn’’t writing the post to ”fact check” Allen   and Parnes  —   she wrote that ”contrary to the ’’mercenary’’   description in the book,” the campaign staff ”knew that there was   only one goal, and one night, that mattered.” ’ ’   Other Clinton staffers shared the post on Twitter and   described their own memories of the campaign: ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tI was in hospital for 3 wks aftr 2 surgeries & tough diagnosis. HFA staff + HRC + WJC made me a video. Thats not ”shattered” thats family  ’ ” ’t’t’tI had same experience as  came late (April ’16) & was only supposed to stay 2 weeks, stayed until the end   of the HFA family  ” ’   Found this picture of quarreling factions of HFA staff having what appears to be some kind of intense argument into microphones  ’ ’ ’t’t’tthis is all spot on. in those brutal days right after the election, the office was a   not a  .  ’ ” ’t’t’t❤️ this. ❤️ and ❤️ ’ d working for  and the team. Sometimes bad sh_> happens to good people. That covers it.  ” ” ’t’t’tI don’t recognize the campaign depicted in Shattered. It was tough but we stuck together & all our proud of how hard our candidate fought.  ” ’ ’t’t’ttfw the office fight spills over to the karaoke bar  ’ ” ’t’t’tAgree 100%Was part frm drafting announce press rls 2   made mistakesWe lostBut depiction in book doesn’t resemble campaign I saw  ” ”   Clinton’s former traveling press secretary, Nick   Merrill,    a long series of photos of happy moments from the campaign trail.   Longtime aide  and   communications director  also joined in. ” ’   Allen and Parnes  this week in an interview with   conservative radio host Hugh Hewitt. ’ ’   ”You know, they can say what they want to say, that it wasn’’t the   campaign they knew, but, you know, we talked to hundreds of   people,” Parnes said. ”This is their story from inside the   campaign. This is what they told us. You know, we weren’’t talking   to outsiders for this book.” ’ ”Staffers who worked on Hillary Clinton’s 2016. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’