’  ’ ”   France’s upcoming presidential election has turned into a de   facto referendum on whether to halt or strengthen the   nationalist fervor sweeping the west that propelled US President   Donald Trump into the White House last year and spurred Britain’s   exit from the European Union. ” ”   Russian president Vladimir Putin, who has been accused of   meddling in both the US election to help elect Trump and the   Brexit vote to help fracture the EU, has two horses   in France’s race  —   the   National Front leader   Marine Le Pen, and the   Republicans candidate   Francois Fillon. ” ’   Both candidates have touted policies that are at once     and hostile to two institutions Putin   abhors: the EU and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO).   They also oppose western sanctions on Russia and advocate a   closer relationship between France and Moscow.  ’ ’   Le Pen has vowed to pull France out of both the EU and NATO,   comparing Europe to a prison and calling NATO ”obsolete.”   Fillon’’s view of the institutions is more nuanced, but he has   indicated that he would like to see the EU’’s power   diminished and  as an arm of   ”American imperalism.”  ’ ’   Le Pen  —   who has said she admires Putin and thinks sanctions on   Russia are ”completely stupid”  —   traveled to Moscow in late March   to meet with the Russian president. Fillon,   who is : He has sought to justify Russia’’s invasion of   eastern Ukraine, demanded that the US lift its     sanctions, and has advocated for France to realign with Russia,   Iran, and Syrian president Bashar Assad to fight terrorism. ’ ’  ’ ”   The stakes are high for Russia. Depending on who wins, the French   election could set the tone for a broader European shift   toward Moscow and away from Washington. It is no surprise,   then, that both the French and   versions of   Russia’s   news agencies, including Sputnik and   Russia Today (RT) have been conspicuously bolstering the   Kremlin’s candidates. ” ’   RT featured Le Pen’’s statement about Thursday’’s terror attack in   Paris at the top of its site on Friday: ”,” the headline read.  made no mention of the statement   released by her centrist opponent, Emmanuel Macron, in the wake   of Thursday’’s attack: ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’   ”It’’s enough to see which candidates, Marine Le Pen or Francois   Fillon, Russia expresses preference for in the French electoral   campaign,” Ayrault told the French .   ”Whereas Emmanuel Macron, who is   is being targeted by   cyberattacks.” ’ ’   ”This form of interference in French democratic life is   unacceptable and I denounce it,” he added. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Another study published by the   private research   group Bakamo  several ”alternative” news   sources widely shared on Facebook and Twitter  —   whose stated aim   is to ”counter the narrative of the traditional media”  —   cite   Russian sources to justify their narratives.  ’ ’   French newspaper Le Monde  a list of the most   egregious examples of fake news, including one site, ”,” which deemed Marine Le Pen the   winner before any voting had actually taken place. (These   results, it said, were based on electronic ballots that had been   ”scanned in the USA, opposite the CIA headquarters. ”) ’ ’   The impact of this ”junk news” pushed by the    —   much of   it inspired or created by Russian disinformation  —   on the outcome   of the French elections will be difficult to measure. In an   encouraging sign, experts say that French citizens, on average,   have shared far fewer fake stories in the   to their   election than Americans did in the runup to theirs. ’ ’   Russian bots and trolls, meanwhile, are already shifting   their attention to another   European   election.  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”France’s upcoming presidential. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’