’  ’ ’   Two candidates in the French presidential election  —   centrist   Emmanuel Macron and   National Front candidate Marine Le   Pen  —   are  to face off against each other in   the May 7 runoff for the presidency, and it looks promising for   one of them. ’ ”   The events playing out during this election seem to be  during which Le Pen’s father and     of the National Front party,   Le Pen, ran   against   president Jacques Chirac. Le Pen’s   controversial views were denounced by many as   and   xenophobic. ” ’     Le Pen and conservative Jacques Chirac emerged the two   winners in the first round of that election. As the results   rolled in, the Socialist party prime minister who came in third   place behind Chirac and Le Pen, Lionel Jospin, announced that he   would no longer seek political office and endorsed Chirac for the   presidency. ’ ”   Soon after, politicians from the left began calling for their   supporters to  —   if reluctantly  —   cast their ballots for Chirac as   a vote of opposition to Le Pen. Rallies leading up to the runoff   garnered over 1 million protesters who demonstrated against Le   Pen’s vision. Some held signs comparing him to Hitler. ” ’   In the end,   Le Pen was dealt a devastating blow when   Chirac won 82% of the vote and defeated him in a landslide   victory. ’ ”   Chirac’s percentage of the vote was the biggest majority in a   French presidential election since 1958, and it was due in large   part to the fact that those across the political spectrum united   in opposition to Le Pen’s divisive and nationalistic vision. ” ’  ’ ’   This year, the preliminary events seem to be playing out   similarly. Marine Le Pen and Emmanuel Macron have come out at the   top of the first round and will likely face off on May 7. ’ ”   Le Pen, who endorses an   and   Union   vision for France’s future, got 22% of the vote, according to   pollsters Harris and Elabe. Macron got between 23. 7 and 24% of   the vote. ” ’   As the results came in, other contenders for the presidency began   bowing out. Conservative candidate Francois Fillon, who got 19. 8%   of the vote, conceded the election and announced his support for   Macron. There is ”no other option but to vote against the far   right,” Fillon said, . ’ ’   Socialist candidate Benoît Hamon  —   who hails from the other side   of the traditional political spectrum  —   made similar remarks   Sunday,  even though the independent   ”is not a man of the left.” ’ ’   ”There is a distinction between a political adversary and the   enemy of the Republic,” . ’ ”   Le Pen has taken steps to soften the image of the tainted   National Front party her father helmed, and she has gained   significant support among younger voters who find her     and   worker stance appealing.   However, despite her actions and Macron’s relative inexperience,   opinion polls leading up to the election show him easily winning   in a showdown with the   Le Pen, . One Harris Interactive   poll found that    while just 36% would cast their ballot for Le Pen.   ” ’   If those polls hold true and candidates and voters across the   spectrum vote for Macron, it seems Le Pen may face the same fate   her father did in 2002. ’ ’    ’ ’Two candidates in the French presidential. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’