’  ’ ’   President Donald Trump set another record low approval rating as   he concludes his first 100 days in office, though his core   supporters largely support his brief tenure. ’ ’   A Washington   poll  on Sunday showed the new president with the lowest   approval rating at this point of any president since the polling   began in 1945  —   42% of respondents told pollsters they approved   of his performance thus far, while 53% disapproved. ’ ”   An NBC  released on Sunday showed similar results: Just 40% said   they approved of Trump’s job performance, a 4     drop from February.   percent disapproved, a 6 point   increase. ” ’   The polls continued to demonstrate that Trump did not experience   the traditional honeymoon period most new presidents receive   following the conclusion of the presidential election and the   ceremonies associated with taking office. ’ ”   NBC pointed out that at similar points in their presidencies,   President Barack Obama had a 61% approval rating, while President   George W. Bush had a 56% approval rating and President Bill   Clinton’s was at 52%. ” ’’ ”   Since taking office, Trump’s approval rating has hovered in the    ’s and  into the  ’s, according to at least one major   recent poll. ” ’   The president has often dismissed low approval ratings and polls   as ”fake news,”  a January survey that showed he would be the     incoming president in modern history. The Real Clear   Politics average of 12 major polls shows Trump’’s approval rating   at 42. 2% a  from the average a month ago. ’ ’   The low levels of support appeared largely limited to Americans   who already held negative views of the new president. ’ ’   The Washington   poll found that 96% of Trump voters said   if the election was held today, they would cast their vote for   Trump again. ’ ’   Indeed, the polls showed some bleak signs for Democrats as well. ’ ’   The Washington   poll showed that 67% of people said that   the party was out of touch with the concerns of Americans,   compared to the 62% of respondents who said the Republican party   was out of touch with the concerns of Americans. That represents   a   shift from when the same poll was conducted three   years ago. ’ ’President Donald Trump set another record low. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’