’  ’ ’   For some former prisoners, the hardest part about serving time is   figuring out what to do when they get out. ’ ’   Between finding a place to live, earning enough money to support   themselves, and adjusting to a changing society, life as an     can be overwhelming and stressful. ’ ’   For some, it can lead to  . According to   a  that examined data from   30 US states between 2005 and 2010, two thirds of released   prisoners were arrested for a new crime within three years, and   more than a third were arrested after just six months. ’ ’   But one organization is trying to reverse those   statistics.  a New York   nonprofit that provides   jobs, education, and housing to recently released male prisoners   through its Ready, Willing & Able program. ’ ’   ”Through a combination of paid work, social services, education,   and career training, the men of Ready, Willing & Able forge a   path to self sufficiency,” Alanna O’’Donnell, media affairs   manager for the Doe Fund, told Business Insider. ’ ’   New participants in the program get paid to clean streets and   sidewalks across New York. They continue on to training for   specific trades, including culinary arts, building maintenance   and pest control. Mandatory education classes teach them skills   like literacy, financial management, and relapse prevention. ’ ’   By the end of the program, participants are connected with job   opportunities to sustain themselves and are given help applying   for their own apartments. ’ ’   ”The tools they gain and the opportunities they earn permanently   break the cycles of   incarceration, and poverty for them   and their families, for life,” O’’Donnell said in a statement to   Business Insider,  outlined on The Doe Fund’’s website: ’ ’     ”An independent study by Harvard University’s Dr. Bruce Western     found that Ready, Willing & Able graduates are 60% less     likely to be convicted of a felony three years after exiting     the program. Overall, the program cuts the risk of future     police contact by a third.”   ’ ’  ’ ’   ”I call it the ’’no more excuses program,’’” director Anthony   Isaacs told Business Insider. ’ ’   Isaacs, 60, can speak firsthand about the program’’s benefits. His   first job after 25 years in multiple prisons around New York   state was a   position with The Doe Fund that he   secured six months after his release  —   he has since worked his   way up. The program is ”rewarding on both sides,” he said. ’ ’   ”For the staff, we’ve had people who have spent a long time   behind the wall and come out and been through the program and   understand that it can work,” Isaacs told Business Insider. ”That   a    beats doing    any day.” ’ ’   Isaacs set himself up for   opportunities by attending   many programs offered at the prison, including ”educational,   vocational, life skills, aggression replacement, drug and alcohol   prevention, business planning, stress management, youth awareness   and delinquent intervention.” He also earned a bachelor’’s degree   in social science while at Eastern Correctional Facility, and a   master’’s degree in Professional Studies & Urban Ministries   from the New York Theological Seminary while at Sing Sing   Correctional Facility. ’ ’  ’ ’   Another Doe Fund worker, William Bossio, 59, struggled with life   after prison before he found the organization. ’ ’   ”When you first come home, it gets overwhelming cause everything   bombards you,” Bossio told Business Insider. ”Bills start   accumulating, your wants become more than your needs, and you get   yourself in trouble. That’’s happened to me multiple times.” ’ ”   Bossio did several prison stints, the longest of which was 12   years at multiple prisons including New York’s Rikers Island for   a bank robbery. He was most recently released from Hudson   Correctional Facility. ” ’   At the urging of his parole officer, Bossio attended a meeting   for the Ready, Willing & Able program. Once he   graduated ’ ’   ”I guess I had to be pushed into making the right decisions,”   Bossio told Business Insider. ’ ’   Bossio said he was ”blessed to find a job” after prison, a time   when even preparing your next meal can feel unfamiliar and   stressful. ’ ’   ”A lot of guys, myself included, have difficult times the first   year” after prison, Bossio said. ’ ”   But Isaacs and Bossio’s success stories show that there is hope   for prisoners to have productive lives on the outside. ” ’For some former prisoners, the hardest part. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’