’  ’ ’   PYONGYANG, North Korea (AP)  —   North Korea has detained a U. S.   citizen, officials said Sunday, bringing to three the number of   Americans now being held there. ’ ’   Tony Kim, who also goes by his Korean name Kim   was   detained on Saturday, according to Park   the chancellor   of the Pyongyang University of Science and Technology. ’ ”   Park said Kim, who is in his 50s, taught accounting at the   university for about a month. He said Kim was detained by   officials as he was trying to leave the country from Pyongyang’s   international airport. ” ’   The Swedish Embassy in Pyongyang said it was aware of a     citizen being detained recently, but could not   comment further. ’ ’   The embassy looks after consular affairs for the United States in   North Korea because the two countries do not have diplomatic   relations. ’ ’’ ’   Park said Kim had taught at the Yanbian University of Science and   Technology in China before coming to Pyongyang. He said he was   informed that the detention had ”nothing to do” with Kim’’s work   at the university but did not know further details. ’ ”   As of Sunday night, North Korea’s official media had not reported   on the detention. ” ’   Though no details on why Kim was detained have been released, the   detention comes at a time of unusually heightened tensions   between the U. S. and North Korea. Both countries have recently   been trading threats of war and having another American in jail   will likely up the ante even further. ’ ’   Last year, Otto Warmbier, then a    University of   Virginia student from suburban Cincinnati, was sentenced to 15   years of hard labor in prison after he confessed to trying to   steal a propaganda banner. ’ ’   Kim Dong Chul, who was born in South Korea but is also believed   to have U. S. citizenship, is serving a sentence of 10 years for   espionage. ’ ’   Another foreigner, a Canadian pastor, is also being detained in   North Korea. Hyeon Soo Lim, a South   Canadian citizen   in his 60s, was convicted and sentenced to life in prison in 2015   on charges of trying to use religion to destroy the North Korean   system and helping U. S. and South Korean authorities lure and   abduct North Korean citizens. ’ ’PYONGYANG, North Korea (AP)  —   North Korea has detained a U. S. citizen, officials said Sunday, bringing to three the number of Americans now being held there.’ ’’ ’’ ’’