”   At this week’s Facebook F8 conference in San Jose, Mark   Zuckerberg doubled down on his  first revealed   in April 2016. ” ”   Here’s the current version of that roadmap, revealed by   Zuckerberg this week:  ” ’  ’ ”   Basically, Zuckerberg’s uses this roadmap to   demonstrate Facebook’s   game plan in action:   First, you take the time to develop a neat     technology. Then you build a product based on it. Then you turn   it into an ecosystem where developers and outside companies can   use that technology to build their own businesses. ” ’   When Zuckerberg first announced this plan last year, it was big   on vision, but short on specifics. ’ ”   On Facebook’s planet of 2026, the   —   with many people   likely getting it .   Zuckerberg reiterated this week that the company is working on   smart glasses that look like your normal everyday Warby Parkers.   And underpinning all of this, Facebook is   promising artificial intelligence good enough that we can   talk to computers as easily as chatting with humans. ” ’   For   lovers, the world Facebook is starting to   build is very cool and insanely ambitious. Instead of   smartphones, tablets, TVs, or anything else with a screen,   all our computing is projected straight into our eyes as we   type with our brains. ’ ”   A   world is exciting for society and for   Facebook shareholders. But it also opens the door to some   crazy future scenarios, where Facebook, or some other tech   company, intermediates everything you see, hear, and, maybe even,   think. And as we ponder the implications of that kind of   future, consider how fast we’ve already progressed on   Zuckerberg’s timeline. ” ’  ’ ”   We’re now one year closer to Facebook’s vision for 2026. And   things are slowly, but surely, starting to come together, as the   social network’s plans for virtual and augmented reality,   universal internet connectivity, and artificial intelligence   start to slowly move from fantasy into reality. ” ’   In fact, ’ ’    ’ ’ ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   If we’re all living in this kind of   world, it makes   Facebook key to every interaction, and crucially, every financial   transaction we conduct in that sphere. It could make the company   a lot of money, certainly. ” ”   So yes, while it’s still at least a decade off, this is all   happening, little bit by little bit. But with Facebook facing   fresh questions every day for its role in our personal lives and   our political elections, it’s also important to remember that   much of this gives the social network  —   as well as companies   like Apple, Google, and Microsoft which all pursuing the same   ends  —   unprecedented control over our conceptions of reality.   It’s time to ask these questions now, and not later. ” ”At this week’s Facebook F8 conference in San. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’