’  ’ ”   Gov. John Kasich of Ohio found something surprising during the   first 100 days of President Donald Trump’s administration. ” ’   Both the White House and congressional Republicans are now   ”taking a lot of positions that I had during the campaign,” he   said during a Monday interview with  while promoting his new book, ”.” ’ ”   Kasich listed some of the shifts in Trump’s platform with which   he not only agreed, but said he favored during his 2016   presidential campaign. ” ’   ”It’’s sort of like, I shake my head,” he said. ”China’’s not a   currency manipulator. We like NATO. We’’re not going to deport 13   million people. ’ ’   ”It’’s interesting. You see, it’’s interesting. Never in my   lifetime have I been called boring, but I think I was a boring   candidate for president because I tried to be responsible.” ’ ’   Kasich said one of the biggest problems he faced as a candidate   was that since he was a sitting governor, he could not make   outlandish promises. ’ ’   ”I couldn’’t actually say that this guy could jump 12 feet in the   air and slam dunk over Draymond Green,” Kasich said, referring to   the Golden State Warriors star and pointing at Business Insider   Executive Editor Brett LoGiurato. ’ ’   ”You could say that,” LoGiurato said jokingly. ’ ’   ”Yeah, but that would be what we would call ’’fake news,’’” Kasich   quipped back. ”So I wouldn’’t say these things.” ’ ’   Kasich also pointed to a signature promise that many of the   Republicans who sought the presidency in 2016 made: ripping apart   the Iran nuclear agreement as soon as they took office. ’ ’   ”I’’ll give you a good one,” he said of an example of an   outlandish, unfulfilled promise. ”’’When I’’m president, I’’m   ripping up the Iran deal on Day One! ’’ I haven’’t seen anyone rip   up anything. Including a number of the members of the United   States Senate.” ’ ”   Reviewing the first 100 days of Trump’s presidency, Kasich said   it was far too soon to give the president a grade. The Ohio   governor, who at times has been sharply critical of Trump, added   that he supported the missile strike on a Syrian     airfield earlier this month, which followed   a chemical attack on civilians that the US has said was carried   out by Syrian President Bashar Assad’s forces. ” ’   During and after the campaign, Trump advocated an ”America   First,” more isolationist foreign policy, touting nonintervention   in foreign wars. ’ ’   ”I actually think the Syria strike mattered, and I’’ll tell you   why,” Kasich said. ”I was at the Munich [Security] Conference   with John McCain. And people were really wondering about the   country. And I think that strike demonstrated some American   strength, which I think some people wanted to see. That was   good.” ’ ’   But Kasich, who during his presidential bid advocated a tougher   stance against the Syrian government, said he had ”yet to see a   strategy” on a larger scale from the White House on Syria’’s civil   war and Assad’’s government. ’ ’   ”But I do think the act in and of itself did have an impact on   the world in the way they were looking at us,” he said. ”I do   believe that.” ’ ’   Taking another look at the Trump presidency, Kasich said the   administration  —   like all that preceded it  —   would be judged on   the economy it fosters and leaves behind. ’ ’   ”I think there will be great disappointment if all of a sudden   there’’s not economic growth,” he said. ”Look, it always gets down   to jobs. You don’’t have economic growth, things go south. If you   have economic growth, people feel better about things. ’ ’   ”People would rather live in an area of poverty than in an area   where there are no jobs,” he continued. ”Because if they live in   poverty, they have a certain sense of hope they can get out of   it. If there are no jobs, there’’s no hope. And bad things come   from that.” ’ ”   Watch part of Business Insider’s interview with Kasich: ” ’ ’ ’Gov. John Kasich of Ohio found something. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’