’  ’ ”   We’ve heard a lot of disconcerting things about trade from the   Trump administration, but in an interview with CNBC on Tuesday,   Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross may have just topped them all. ” ’   It was about a new tariff the administration just put on Canadian   lumber. ’ ’   ”I wouldn’’t regard the Canadian situation as being anything like   the war with ISIS, but it certainly is a very precise set of   tariffs on a very precise set of imports,” Ross said. ”The reason   we’’re putting it on is Canada’’s forests are owned by the various   provinces, and the provinces charge very discounted, we believe,   very subsidized prices to the lumbermen, which in turn lets them   get a subsidized low price coming into the US.” ’ ’   He continued (and this is that part that should actually be more   upsetting than the ridiculous ISIS reference, emphasis ours):   ”It simply seems unfair because in the US most of the   forests are privately owned and therefore pay   market   rate for the stumpage.” ’ ’   Oh, now we slap tariffs on countries because something simply   ”seems” unfair? ’ ’’ ”   That’s not exactly how this works. ” ’   The privatization of US timberlands goes all the way back to the   Homestead Act of 1862. We chose a private model for that   industry, and no other country can make us change it. Canadians   chose a different model, and no country can make them change it. ’ ”   As Carnegie Mellon economist Lee Branstetter pointed out to   Business Insider, this reality has for a while been a sticking   point for the US and Canada for the same reason Ross cited: It   seems unfair. But the thing is, according to World Trade   Organization rules, it’s not. ” ”   Here’s a relevant passage from the WTO and General Agreement on   Tariffs and Trade, from 1947 and 1994, to explain : ” ”   In other words, member nations can’t enact laws that favor   domestic industries over foreign ones, but this isn’t a law. This   is simply the nature of Canada’s logging industry. It seems   unfair. But technically, it’s not. ” ”   So now we’re doing trade policy based on how things feel? I saw   this coming from the head of the White House National Trade   Council, Peter Navarro, who has repeatedly said he  is unfair because it   negotiates as a member of the European Union rather than by   itself. ” ’   But billionaire investor Ross? Less so. Then again, last month    he was ”horrified to learn that billions of   dollars of [WTO] duties that have been won after . ..     cases have never been collected.” ’ ”   In other words, he’s a newbie here, just like everyone else in   the White House now  —   with a boss looking for wins anywhere they   can be found. Maybe that means starting fights out of thin air;   maybe it doesn’t. ” ”   But that’s sure what it seems like. ” ”We’ve heard a lot of disconcerting things about. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’