’  ’ ’   After drawing conservative Republicans on board to the American   Health Care Act, Republican leadership appears set to try to   bring back the American Health Care Act to the House floor for a   vote.  ’ ’   But the fate of the legislation appeared to be in doubt Thursday   as leaders raced to get the support of moderate Republican   lawmakers. ’ ’   An amendment released Tuesday night, authored by moderate   Rep. Tom MacArthur, appeared to placate conservatives who did not   think the original AHCA went far enough in its repeal of   Obamacare. ’ ’   The amendment would allow states to apply for a waiver that   would exempt their insurance markets from certain regulations   created by the Affordable Care Act, or Obamacare, if they can   prove it would bring down costs. ’ ’   ’ ’’ ’ () ’ ’   The tweak was enough to get the  which could mean support from roughly 20   members who were against the original AHCA. ’ ’   But the amendment  members of the Republican   caucus and could leave the AHCA short of the votes it   needs to pass. Only 22 GOP members can vote against the bill for   it pass through the   chamber.  ’ ’   MacArthur, the author of the amendment and a   of the   Tuesday Group,  Thursday that the Republican conference   does not currently have enough votes. ’ ’   Members of the House GOP conference that originally   said they would vote ”yes” have now expressed doubts over   the amendment.   other newly undecided members include Reps.   Brain Babin, Mike Coffman, and Ryan Costello. ’ ’   While the House GOP conference attempts to wrangle votes,   the White House has also sought to apply pressure ahead of   the   mark in President Donald Trump’’s   administration. Mick Mulvaney, the Office of and Management   and Budget director, told CNBC that he was ”still holding out”   for a vote on Saturday, while other reports suggested a vote   could come Friday. ’ ’   Pushing back on any timeline, House Speaker Paul Ryan has   repeatedly said leadership will not bring the legislation   to the floor until ”we have the votes.” ’ ’   Passing the AHCA through the House represent a significant hurdle   cleared, but it would also lead to new challenges. ’ ’   Several Republican senators have expressed serious doubts about   the AHCA. And since Republicans are attempting to move the   healthcare bill through the budget reconciliation process, there   have been questions whether the bill would even qualify   under the Senate rules. ’ ’After drawing conservative Republicans on board. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’