”In some ways, attending  in person is exactly what you’d expect from watching TED talks online. It’s an overwhelming experience,   with scientists, artists, entrepreneurs, and CEOs who all have their One Big Idea to share.” ”Many of the   speakers in 2017, they include Nobel Prize winner Elizabeth Blackburn, Serena Williams, and Elon Musk stick around for the whole event, and it’s not unusual to see them roaming the halls. There are also lots of   attendees who never hit the stage (the press isn’t allowed to name names, but you can figure it out with a little Twitter digging). ” ”The conference costs $10, 000 to attend, and in addition to the talks there are all sorts of indulgent experiences, buffets, and workshops to keep attendees occupied. I showed up at the 2017 TED conference to check it all out.  Here’s what it’s like.” ’TED was founded in 1984, and the first conference was held in Monterey, California. These days, the conference runs from Monday through Friday. People have to apply to go  —   attendance is capped at 1, 800 —   and it sells out many months in advance. ’ ’There are different dinner options available each night, including a ”Jeffersonian Dinner,” where attendees can pick a topic they’’re interested in ’ ’BMW is a TED partner in 2017, so the company also shuttled attendees around for free throughout the conference.’ ’Other activity options included a brewery tour and a snowshoe scavenger hunt (ziplining was originally offered, but was canceled because of weather).’ ’ ’ ’Participants in an ”Improv Everywhere” danced outside the convention center, led in synchronized moves by whoever jumped on the ”Dance Captain Wanted” stage.’ ”For especially popular sessions, the line might form at least half an hour before the talk begins. Once inside, it’s a bit of a race getting to a good seat.” ’Donors, who pay $25, 000 for the conference, get a separate line and choice seating at the front of the theater.’ ’ ’ ”Many talks are just as inspirational as the few that go viral online. But there’s so much pressure involved with getting on the TED stage (online fame and even potential book deals can be on the line) that some people stumble. TED does an impressive job of editing the videos of talks that had hiccups to ensure they look good on the internet.” ’There are only limited amounts of the   items. By the time I scoped out the cave on Wednesday, the   luggage gift was already gone.  a Silicon Valley favorite, had yet to arrive (and were surely snapped up quickly once they did).’ ’In some ways, attending the TED conference. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’