’  ’ ’   US Pacific Command has confirmed that North Korea launched a   missile from the Western part of the country. ’ ’   ”US Pacific Command detected what we assess was a North Korean   missile launch at 10:33 a. m. Hawaii time APR 28,” read a   statement.   ’ ’   US forces said that the missile did not leave North Korean   territory after it blew up over land, and did not pose a threat   to North America. ’ ”   The missile launch  —   North Korea’s  since President Donald Trump   took office  —   appears to have been the   an     scud type missile that flew about 25 miles in 15 minutes,   . South   Korean military officials also reported that the missile flew as   high as 44 miles, . ” ’   Shortly after the launch, Trump sent out a scolding : ” ’ ”   South Korean officials originally labeled the launch a failure,   but Tal Inbar, head of the Fisher Institute for Air & Space   Strategic Studies  in 15 minutes a missile can still   reach its final stage and provide useful data, possibly   progressing North Korea’s ballistic missile program.  ” ’   Jeffrey Lewis, founding publisher of Arms Control Wonk  that the missile may have been   an   missile. The North Koreans recently released   statements and a propaganda video threatening to sink the USS   Carl Vinson, the aircraft carrier the US Navy dispatched to the   Korean peninsula amid high bilateral tensions.  ’ ’  ’ ’   The latest launch comes a day after   a  ’ ’   ”This is Kim giving us the finger,” said CNN analyst and   former US State Department spokesman John Kirby. ”Giving   China the finger. Giving the UN the finger. I think timing is   absolutely planned and preordained in his mind.” ’ ”   Adm. Harry Harris, leader of the US military’s Pacific Command,    that the   North Korean conflict has reached the worst level he’s ever seen,   but that ultimately he was confident of the US’s ability to   defend against North Korea missile attacks.  ” ’  ’ ’   US aircraft carriers like the Vinson travel with guided missile   destroyers that field advanced radars and missile interceptors,   but the Vinson has not yet reached the peninsula.  ’ ”   The test of the   while it has serious implications for   regional stability and the US Navy in the region, doesn’t   represent an advance in their efforts to develop a missile that   can strike the US mainland. ” ’   Though the recent launch was deemed a failure by officials  —   by   way of not being able to reach the Sea of Japan  —   analysts still   believe that North Korea has much to gain from their unsucessful   attempts. ’ ’   ”He learns from every single attempt, and he gets knowledge, and   he gets intel,” Kirby said in a CNN report. ”And he takes those   lessons learned and just churns them right over into the next   one.” ’ ’US Pacific Command has confirmed that North. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’