’  ’ ’   Nearly two decades after saving Nissan from the brink of   financial collapse, CEO Carlos Ghosn is taking on another   Japanese reclamation project. ’ ”   This time, it’s Mitsubishi Motors. ” ’   ”I’’m going to dedicate a little bit of my time in order to steer   Mitsubishi back to normal development and support their team,”   Ghosn told Business Insider in an interview.  ’ ”   Ghosn’s words understate the dismal state of the Japanese   brand.  ” ”   Like Nissan in 1999, which had lost money seven of the eight   years prior to Ghosn’s arrival, Mitsubishi in 2017 is a real    . ” ”   In 2016, the   automaker reported a $1. 4 billion loss   along with   declines at a time when markets in China   and North America were reporting   sales records. In the   US, Mitsubishi’s presence has withered down to just a handful of   models with a hold on less than 1% of the market.  ” ’   In addition, Mitsubishi found itself mired in scandal after   admitting to regulators that it falsified fuel economy data on   several of its models. ’ ’   On April 1, Ghosn  —   who currently serves as the chairman and CEO   of both Nissan and Renault, the chairman of Mitsubishi Motors,   and the chairman and CEO of the   —   . ’ ’   The goal: get Mitsubishi back on track.  ’ ’  ’ ’   In October 2016, Nissan acquired 34% of the venerable Japanese   automaker in a deal valued at $2. 3 billion. This move allowed   Mitsubishi to gain entry into the   Alliance. ’ ’   ”When the opportunity came, due to some unfortunate circumstances   concerning Mitsubishi Motors, to have them inside the   alliance, we were convinced it could be a good fit. This was not   something that came out of the blue.” Ghosn told us. ’ ’   ”This was a company with whom we have been working already. So   very quickly we said yes, knowing that we would develop a lot of   synergies with them.” ’ ’   There are few CEOs in the business better at finding those cost   savings than Ghosn. In his early days at Nissan, Ghosn shut down   five plants, laid off thousands of workers, cut the cost   the company paid for parts by 20% through streamlining its   procurement process, and refused to greenlight new models that   would not make money. ’ ’  ’ ’   In the process, the   French businessman earned the   nickname ”Le Cost Killer”.  ’ ’   As painful as these moves may have been, they allowed Nissan   to recover from its crippling $17 billion dollars in debt and   return to healthy growth. ’ ’   With Mitsubishi, Ghosn is back again, looking for ways to turn   around the   automaker that has stagnated over the past   decade. ’ ’   ”One of the big problems for Mitsubishi is that this company did   not grow. It stayed around 1 million cars a year for many years,”   Ghosn said. ’ ”   One of the reasons Mitsubishi’s sales stagnated was that it   simply didn’t have the resources to develop a broad lineup of   products on its own. With the   juggernaut in the   picture, Mitsubishi will now have an extensive bank of platforms,   engines, and technology from which it can draw to create the   brand’s next generation of models. ” ”   As a result, the alliance will help make the process of revamping   Mitsubishi’s product line much easier because it will be more   cost effective and it will get done in a shorter period of time   than it would have without these resources, the executive   said.  ” ’  ’ ’   This also means that Mitsubishi will likely plug up any glaring   holes in its portfolio, at least in the immediate future,   using existing Nissan and Renault models as a foundation. ’ ’   However, Ghosn cautioned that most of the work associated with   the turnaround has to be done inside Mitsubishi. ’ ’   ”Obviously now, by accessing the technology of the Alliance, by   accessing the platforms of the Alliance, and by accessing the   best practices of the Alliance, Mitsubishi is going to be able to   not only have a larger lineup of models, but a much more   competitive product, while still keeping the Mitsubishi flavor,   the Mitsubishi brand, and the Mitsubishi design that’s very   different compared to Nissan or Renault,” Ghosn said. ’ ’Nearly two decades after saving Nissan from the. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’