’  ’ ’   Conservative media firebrand Tomi Lahren has settled her wrongful   termination suit against former employer Glenn Beck and TheBlaze,   the . ’ ’   ”I am pleased to report that the parties have amicably resolved   their differences,” Lahren’’s lawyer, Brian Lauten, said in a   statement . ’ ’   Lahren is no longer bound by her employment contract at TheBlaze   and will now be free to pursue other work, per the settlement   agreement. ’ ’   Lahren’’s show was  during an appearance on ABC’’s ”The View” in March. ’ ’   When asked on ”The View” about her stance on reproductive rights,   Lahren, who used to host ”Tomi” for TheBlaze, said, ”I can’’t sit   here and be a hypocrite and say, ’’I’’m for limited government, but   I think the government should decide what women do with their   bodies. ’’” ’ ’’ ’   She added: ”I can say, ’’You know what, I’’m for limited   government, so stay out of my guns, and you can stay out of my   body as well. ’’” ’ ’   She was suspended shortly after, following harsh blowback from   conservatives, including Beck himself, who  ”Wait, libertarian views? Help me   out on Trumpcare, stimulus, and executive orders. Trump is   anything but libertarian. #intellectualhonesty.”  ’ ’   In a suit she filed after being suspended, Lahren  that she was wrongfully terminated.   TheBlaze disputed this, noting that she continued to be paid   even after her show stopped airing. Beck and the network    claiming that she had breached her employment contract by making   public statements that reflected negatively on TheBlaze.  ’ ”   Beck’s and TheBlaze’s countersuit also disputed Lahren’s claim   that her email account was terminated and that TheBlaze had   blocked access to her Facebook page. ” ’   ”TheBlaze never had access to Lahren’’s personal social media   accounts and has taken no action to block her from using them  —     as can be demonstrated by her continuous Twitter stream and   Instagram posts,” the countersuit said. ’ ’   Under the terms of the settlement, Lahren is now the ”undisputed   owner of her Facebook page,” and she will ”promptly return to her   former employer its intellectual property that was posted on her   Facebook page before this litigation commenced.” ’ ’   ”Ms. Lahren is relieved to have this litigation behind her and   she looks forward to connecting with her audience and fan base on   the pressing political issues facing our country in the days to   come,” Lauten, Lahren’’s lawyer, said in a statement. The   remainder of the parties’’ agreement is confidential.” ’ ’   Lauten added that Lahren will make no further comments on the   case.  ’ ’Conservative media firebrand Tomi Lahren has. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’