Every four years, I notice a dramatic increase in personal disclosure at the office.   who are usually reserved about nonwork matters suddenly begin expressing their political beliefs and singing the praises of their preferred presidential candidates. I understand the desire to discuss such a critical event, even if there is a risk of stirring up rancor among people with opposing views. For people whose political opinions are aligned, such conversations can be satisfying and reinforce collegial bonds. Some people feel the election is so important that they simply must express their views in the office. But those who do should beware: Political talk at work can have unintended effects. Declaring your support for a candidate is essentially an unsolicited recommendation to any people who can hear you, whether they are listening voluntarily or not. Research I have done shows that people often have peculiar reactions to such talk. Rather than doing what’s recommended, or even ignoring a suggestion, they often do the exact opposite of what you propose. For example, Donald R. Lehmann of Columbia University and I told participants in a study that a health and fitness magazine strongly recommended against a particular granola bar. Armed with this advice, the participants’ preference for that granola bar then skyrocketed. We got the same results when we told another group of participants about an auto magazine’s compact car recommendations. That people will resist expert recommendations about a car purchase suggests this tendency also plays into decisions with higher stakes  —   including, perhaps, an election. Studies of backlash to restrictions have shown that even strongly held beliefs and behaviors can be turned on their heads. For example, some hospital patients react to restrictions of their freedom by placing themselves at a much greater health risk. Obviously, for a large portion of the public, voting preferences are not subject to outside influence. Some people, for example, always vote the party line no matter what. But for voters who are undecided, subtle environmental influences have the potential to play an outsize role at the polls. When people ask for your opinion before making a choice, they typically incorporate it into their decision. Sometimes they value it greatly. But if you offer advice without being asked  —   watch out. This backlash to unsolicited advice comes from a psychological concept known as reactance, first identified in the 1960s by Jack W. Brehm, a social psychologist at Duke. When a freedom to choose is restricted, it becomes much more attractive. Tell a    child he can have either the   or   candy but not the orange, and orange is suddenly his new favorite flavor. People do not appear to outgrow this tendency as they mature. Unlike tuning into a pundit’s TV show, or reading the editorial page of a newspaper, people rarely seek out their colleagues for political recommendations. Making a show of supporting one candidate, or criticizing another, is a form of unsolicited opinion. Based on our research, I’d say it’s most likely to be resisted, maybe even to the point where an undecided voter will lean the other way. Many workplaces request that their employees not discuss politics in the office. Such policies are generally thought to reduce animosity among   who have differing perspectives. Unfortunately, such policies are rarely successful, and in many cases they elevate political discussion to forbidden fruit. As we learned from our study of reactance, a restricted freedom becomes a desirable one. So employees    thrust their opinions on their colleagues, perhaps talking about a funny portrayal of a disliked candidate on a television program instead of directly attacking the person. And this, of course, creates the potential for a backlash against that political perspective. The colleagues rejecting your unsolicited political advice might not even realize that they are doing so. In work with Tanya L. Chartrand and Amy N. Dalton at Duke, I found that many people push back against perceived threats to their freedom outside their conscious awareness. In one study, we asked participants to name someone in their lives who wanted them to work hard. Then we asked them to work on a puzzle. The participants actually did a worse job when the name of the person who wanted them to work hard was flashed subliminally on a screen before they began working on the puzzle. When it comes to political preferences, keep in mind that certain combinations of perceptions can magnify the effect of a backlash. If you pull into the company lot driving a Toyota Prius  —   already associated with liberal voters  —   plastered with a Hillary   Kaine bumper sticker, and then loudly complain about Donald J. Trump while getting your morning coffee, it could be seen as a particularly annoying,   recommendation. The net effect of who you are, and what you say, could turn undecided voters away from the Democratic ticket. We might expect a similar backlash to a gun enthusiast loudly supporting Mr. Trump. However, these assumptions could also be turned to a candidate’s advantage. If you are a   hybrid driver, or if you like to hunt and you’re a big fan of Mrs. Clinton, then go ahead and tell everyone at the office, and slap an   bumper sticker on your hybrid or your truck. By defying expectations you’ll most likely dampen the automatic backlash, and you might even encourage undecided voters to think twice about your candidate. Perhaps they will realize there’s something they missed.