’  ’ ”   Microsoft just unveiled the Surface Laptop, available for   preorder on Tuesday at $999, that’s aimed squarely at stealing   customers away from Apple’s newest MacBooks. ” ’   But the Surface Laptop, expected to be fully released on June 15,   will likely stand out from anything made by Apple. It sports a   13.  screen, 14.  battery life (or so Microsoft   promises) a clamshell body, and a keyboard covered in  the same material used for premium Surface   Pro covers. ’ ”   At the very least, the Surface Laptop won’t look much like any   other computer out there. ” ”   It’s available in four colors, has a touchscreen, and supports   the Surface Pen stylus. It comes in Intel i5 and i7     processor configurations, putting it on a par   with other   laptops. ” ”   Microsoft hardware chief Panos Panay said at an event on Tuesday   that this laptop was born from students’ need for a laptop  —   not   a tablet, like Microsoft’s Surface Pro, or a     hybrid, like the Surface Book. ” ’   The one thing to know is that the Surface Laptop is the poster   child for  a new version of the operating system that Microsoft   says is more streamlined and secure  —   and offers better   performance and battery life  —   than the standard Windows 10. ’ ’  ’ ”   The   for those perks is that Windows 10 S won’t let you   install any software that’s not from the Windows Store app   market, which means that, at the very least, you wouldn’t be able   to install the Google Chrome web browser. ” ”   If you’re not down with that, Microsoft will let you switch any   Windows 10 S computer, including the Surface Laptop, to the   regular Windows 10 Pro for a   $49 fee  —   less if you’re on   a tablet or something else with a smaller screen. But if you do   that, Microsoft says, it can’t guarantee you’ll get the improved   battery life and performance. ” ”   Here’s the reveal trailer: ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tMeet the new Surface Laptop. Performance made personal.  ’ ”   At first blush, the Surface Laptop appears to fill an important   gap in Microsoft’s homebuilt hardware lineup, as it looks to go      with Apple and its premium Mac devices. Microsoft is   pitching the Surface Laptop as perfect for college students  —   in   line with the educational focus of its event on Tuesday in New   York City. ” ”   If the Surface Pro 4 is Microsoft’s MacBook Air alternative and   the Surface Studio is up against the iMac, then the Surface Book   laptop is its MacBook Pro competitor  —   and its $999 price tag   makes it a slightly cheaper alternative to the $1, 299 MacBook. ” ’  ’ ”   Microsoft’s Surface business seems to be struggling, as evidenced   by a 26% revenue decline in the most recent quarter. Still,   Microsoft has always said that a big reason it bothers with the   Surface hardware lineup in the first place is to draw attention   away from competitors like Apple while paving the way for Windows   10. The Surface Laptop is just another salvo in that strategy. ” ’Microsoft just unveiled the Surface Laptop. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’