’  ’ ’   The House of Representatives will vote on the American Health   Care Act on Thursday. ’ ’   Republican House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy told reporters he   plans to bring the American Health Care Act to the floor of the   House and is confident that the bill will pass. ’ ’   ”Do we have the votes? Yes. Will we pass it? Yes,” McCarthy said. ’ ’   The vote will take place just over a month after House   Republicans  just minutes   before a vote after they were unable to wrangle enough of their   members to vote for the bill. ’ ’   Most projections for the outcome of the vote are close.  of unofficial whip counts   collected by various media outlets has between 19 and 21 GOP   lawmakers publicly against the bill. Due to the universal   opposition by Democrats, only 23 Republican members can vote   against the AHCA for it to fail. ’ ’’ ’   The move comes after a   effort by the House GOP   leadership and the White House to win moderates over on the AHCA. ’ ’   that allowed states to apply for a waiver to repeal some   Obamacare regulations, which some members worried would  ’ ’   To combat this concern, Rep. Fred Upton on Tuesday  to provide an additional $8 billion in   funds to protect those sick Americans in the event that such a   waiver is triggered. Importantly, three of the   of the   amendment  —   Reps. Steve Knight, David Valado, and Jeff Denham all   from California  —   were either uncommitted or publicly against the   AHCA. ’ ’   The amendment and a trip to meet with President Donald Trump at   the White House was apparently enough to win over Upton and   fellow   Rep. Billy Long. Their movement, along with the   potential cover it could provide other more moderate members,   helped get passage within reach. ’ ”   Importantly, Upton’s extra funding did not lose the support of   the conservative House Freedom Caucus which did not support the   AHCA when it was first brought to the floor in March. ” ’   A source close to the Freedom Caucus told Business Insider that   some members of the Caucus had seen legislative text of the Upton   amendment. ’ ’   ”The Freedom Caucus will continue to support as long as there are   no substantive policy changes,” the source said. ’ ’   The House Rules Committee approved the bill and the   amendments in a meeting on Wednesday night, officially opening   the way for a full House vote. ’ ’The House of Representatives will vote on the. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’