’  ’ ”   FBI Director James Comey on Wednesday said former Attorney   General Loretta Lynch’s tarmac meeting with President Bill   Clinton in late June was the turning point in the investigation   into Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server. ” ”   Comey said the meeting aboard an airplane in Phoenix set off a   series of events that ended with a bombshell revelation in the   FBI director’s letter to congressional leaders 11 days before the   November 8 election that the bureau would reopen the   investigation. ” ’   During testimony on Capitol Hill before the Senate Judiciary   Committee, Comey said ”a number of things” had caused him to   worry that Department of Justice leadership ”could not credibly   complete the investigation and decline prosecution without   grievous damage to the American people’’s confidence in the   justice system.” ’ ’   The ”capper,” he said, was the meeting. ’ ’   ”I’’m not picking on the attorney general, Loretta Lynch, who I   like very much, but her meeting with President Clinton on that   airplane was the capper for me,” he said. ”And I then said, ’’You   know what? The department cannot, by itself, credibly end this. ’’” ’ ’’ ’   The meeting happened days before Comey held a press conference to   announce the conclusion of the investigation, at which he said   the bureau would not recommend criminal charges but that the   former secretary of state had acted recklessly by using the   private server. ’ ’   Comey said he called Lynch the morning of the press conference to   alert her to his decision to hold it. But Comey said he would not   tell her what he was planning to say. ’ ’   ”I said to her, ’’I hope someday you’’ll understand why I think I   have to do this,’’” Comey said. ”But look, I was not loving this.   I knew this would be disastrous for me personally. But I thought   this is the best way to protect these institutions we care so   much about.” ’ ”   He mentioned the press conference and his subsequent testimony   under oath that the investigation was complete as reasons he had   to go public when he knew that emails possibly relevant to the   investigation were found on former New York Rep. Anthony Weiner’s   computer. ” ’   ”When the Anthony Weiner thing landed on me on October 27 and   there was a huge  —   this is what people forget  —   new step to be   taken, we may be finding the golden missing emails that would   change this case, if I were not to speak about that, it would be   a disastrous, catastrophic concealment,” he said. ”It was an   incredibly painful choice, but actually not all that hard,   between very bad and catastrophic. ’ ’   ”I had to tell Congress that we were taking these additional   steps,” he continued. ”I prayed to find a third door. I couldn’’t   find it. Two actions: speak or conceal. I don’’t think many   reasonable people would do it differently than I did, no matter   what they say today. If you were standing there staring at that   on October 28, would you really conceal that? So I spoke.” ’ ’   Bill Clinton and Lynch said they discussed their grandchildren   during the tarmac meeting, which lasted about 30 minutes. ’ ’   In December,  she regretted the meeting. ’ ’   ”I wish I had seen around that corner and not had that discussion   with the former president, as innocuous as it was, because it did   give people concern,” Lynch said. ”It did make people wonder is   it going to affect the investigation that’’s going on, and that’’s   not something that was an unreasonable question for anyone to   ask.” ’ ’   Hillary Clinton, the 2016 Democratic presidential nominee,    that the letter from Comey to congressional   leaders played a large role in her defeat by President Donald   Trump. ’ ’FBI Director James Comey on Wednesday said. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’