’  ’ ’   There is something extremely Donald Trump about holding a   celebration in the White House Rose Garden to mark the passage of   a bill just through one house of Congress  —   especially when that   bill faces considerable hurdles before it can become law, and   especially when that bill is very unpopular. ’ ”   Republicans in the House voted to pass the American Health Care   Act despite not knowing what the bill would do. They say they   didn’t wait for a Congressional Budget Office study because they   don’t put much stock in CBO’s estimates of costs or coverage   levels  —   but it’s not like they have their own competing study   they relied on. ” ”   They just don’t care. They know the bill cuts taxes on rich   people. Those are the important numbers. ” ’   The specific effects of this piece of legislation may not matter   much anyway, since Republican senators say they will chuck out   the House bill and write their own. And the Senate bill will   almost surely be very different from the House bill. ’ ’   Several Republican senators, including Shelley Capito of West   Virginia, Tom Cotton of Arkansas, Cory Gardner of Colorado, Dean   Heller of Nevada, Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, and Rob Portman of   Ohio, have expressed concern about how the loss of the Medicaid   expansion would affect their states. Four of these senators wrote   a letter to majority leader Mitch McConnell  would have to provide ”stability for   Medicaid expansion populations.” ’ ’   Murkowski and Susan Collins of Maine have also expressed great   concern about whether this bill sufficiently subsidizes insurance   for   people in high cost areas. Insurance premiums are   very high in Alaska; the House bill would provide flat subsidies,   unadjusted for area costs, that would make insurance unaffordable   for many in the state. ’ ”   These two issues got relatively little attention in the House;   addressing the senators’ concerns on them could add a lot of   costs. Murkowski and Collins also support continued funding for   Planned Parenthood, which is stripped in the House bill. ” ”   Whether a health care bill ever reaches Trump’s desk will depend   on whether House Freedom Caucus conservatives, who yanked the   House bill to the right, will be able to live with (and vote for)   the Senate’s likely approach to health care. ” ’  ’ ”   I am skeptical. If they’re prepared to roll over and accept a   bill whose approach will be blessed by Susan Collins, what was   the point of their blocking the previous version of this bill in   March? ” ”   If they won’t roll over, we’re likely to end up in a situation   where both the House and the Senate succeed in passing a health   care bill, but they can’t combine it into a single bill both   houses can agree on. ” ”   The most important political effect of Thursday’s vote may then   be that nearly the entire House Republican conference is now on   the record for the proposition that health insurers should be   able to charge patients more if they have preexisting health   conditions. ” ”   In fairness to Republicans, that’s how most insurance products   are priced: If your house is located on the oceanfront, you’re   going to pay more for coverage against hurricanes. But the   widespread unpopularity of medical underwriting (that is, the   practice of charging people more if they’ve had cancer, etc.)   reflects a public consensus that health risks are different from   other kinds of risks; that the financial costs associated with   them are appropriately pooled across the population instead of   stuck disproportionately on the people most likely to need   medical care. ” ”   Being at elevated risk for cancer is misfortune enough; it   shouldn’t also come with the obligation to pay a whole bunch of   extra insurance premiums. ” ’   Republicans have claimed to believe in this principle. Part of   the reason I believed this bill would not pass the House is that   so many Republicans insisted, very publicly, that they would   insist any bill they vote for would align with this principle. ’ ”   Preexisting condition coverage is a visceral issue on which House   Republicans will have to defend themselves in next year’s   elections to an electorate that really doesn’t like the stance   they have taken. And they’ll have to justify their choice to   party in the Rose Garden with a very unpopular president right   after they voted to do so. ” ’There is something extremely Donald Trump about. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’