’  ’ ”   It’s a tale as old as time  —   or at least as old as craft   beer.  ” ’   Scrappy homebrewers start a craft beer company. The beer   catches on, becomes a cult classic, and gets noticed by a     dollar company, which then acquires the craft   brewer. Customers grow furious, and vow never again to drink   the beer they helped make famous.  ’ ’   The latest craft brewer to ”sell out” in the eyes of certain,     customers is Wicked Weed. The Asheville, North   Carolina brewer announced on Wednesday that it was being acquired   by   the world’’s largest brewing company. ’ ’   The backlash was swift. The North Carolina’’s Craft Brewers’’   Guild issued a statement saying it was ””   by the acquisition, while craft brewers, such as  pledged to stop selling   Wicked Weed beers. Social media erupted with anger and   disappointment.  ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tCan’t wait to sit by the outdoor fire pit at Wicked Weed in Asheville and sip a Bud Light Lime’t’t” ’ ’t’t’tMy thoughts on wicked weed to abinbev  ’ ’   ”What a bunch of sell outs. For shame,” one Instagram user   commented. ”Just had to go after the money and not give a damn   about anything else didn’’t you?”  ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tWicked Weed has sold out to  .  We visited a South End bottle shop to find out the proper way to channel the corporate outrage. ’t’t’ ”   However, two of Wicked Weed’s   Walt and Luke   Dickinson, say that criticism can’t be farther from the truth. ” ’   Instead, they told Business Insider that customers would realize   that the partnership with   was a positive for fans   of craft brewing. ’ ’   Partnering with   means great distribution   opportunities, more resources, and connections to other   breweries, including Goose Island, Blue Point, and   Breckenridge Brewery. More opportunities for Wicked Weed means   bringing craft beer to more people  —   which ultimately, they   argue, elevates the entire beer industry.  ’ ’   With nearly six years in the craft beer community, there is no   doubt that the Dickinsons saw the backlash coming. Why,   then, did they decide to go through with the partnership? ’ ’   ”They’’re the largest company in this segment. And, to have that   kind of support behind our mission is immense,” Luke said. ”We   are going to be able to achieve things that we never imagined and   have an impact that we never imagined, and that’’s incredible.”     ’ ’  ’ ’   Increasingly, the line between independent brewers and craft   brands owned by companies like   is blurring as   strategic partnerships and acquisitions become increasingly   common. Wicked Weed is the 10th American craft brewery that   AB InBev has acquired since 2011. Heineken and Molson Coors   are making And, as   invest in   craft, the growth of independent craft brewers is finally   slowing,  ’ ”   The solution, according to the Dickinsons, isn’t to reject   companies like   but to work with them.  ” ’   ”There was a big fight to take marketshare from those big guys  —     the   of the world. And I think the exciting thing   about beer now is it doesn’’t need to be take down the big guys   any more,” Walt said. ”It’’s not a civil war here.” ’ ”It’s a tale as old as time  —   or at least as. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’