’  ’ ’   FBI Director James Comey said in a hearing before the Senate   Judiciary Committee on Wednesday that he treated the   bureau’’s probe into Hillary Clinton’’s private email server and   its investigation into President Donald Trump’’s ties to   Russia ”consistently,” and ”under the same principles.” ’ ”   Comey was grilled by the committee’s Democrats about  that the FBI was   revisiting the Clinton email investigation but did not   reveal that the FBI had also been investigating possible   collusion between Trump associates and Russia. ” ’   ”Americans across the country have been confused and disappointed   by your judgment in handling the investigation into Secretary   Clinton’’s emails,” Democratic Sen. Patrick Leahy told Comey on   Wednesday. ’ ’   ”On a number of occasions, you told us to comment directly and   extensively on that investigation. You even released internal FBI   memos and interview notes. . .. But you said absolutely nothing   regarding the investigation into the Trump campaign’’s connections   to Russia’’s illegal efforts to help elect Donald Trump. Was it   appropriate for you to comment on one investigation repeatedly   and not say anything about the other?” ’ ’   Comey replied that, ”With respect to the Russian investigation,   we treated it like we did with the Clinton investigation. We   didn’’t say a word about it until months into it and then the only   thing we’’ve confirmed so far about this is the same thing with   the Clinton investigation. That we are investigating.” ’ ”   He also said he felt compelled to speak out about the   renewed look into Clinton’s email server because he had   previously testified under oath that the Clinton   investigation was wrapped up. He hadn’t, however, publicly   commented on the Trump investigation yet. ” ’   The FBI has the right, and is normally expected, to not disclose   the existence of an ongoing investigation. Comey circumvented   that policy in both the Clinton and Trump probes  —   albeit months   apart  —   citing ”unusual circumstances” such as a high degree of   public interest in the cases due to the presidential   election.  ’ ’   ”Disclosure of an investigation, unless it’’s classified, is   triggered by the end of the investigation, not the beginning,”   said Scott Olson, a   FBI veteran who served as the   bureau’’s assistant special agent in charge of counterintelligence   operations. ”Usually, disclosure is by announcement of an   indictment or announcement that no charges will be filed.” ’ ’   ”While the public often learns of investigations before they are   concluded, those stories are virtually all leaks or speculation,”   Olson added. ”They are not official statements from agency heads   like Comey.”  ’ ”   While Comey did not make an official statement about the   Clinton probe until July 2016  —   when he announced in a rather   unprecedented press conference that the bureau would not be   recommending criminal charges  —   he  in October 2015 that the bureau was   investigating Clinton’s use of a private email server while she   was secretary of state.  ” ”   In contrast, Comey declined to publicly confirm the   existence of an investigation into the Trump campaign’s potential   ties to Russia until March 2017  —   eight months after the   bureau first opened the probe, and four months after the election   in which Trump defeated Clinton, who was the Democratic nominee   for president. ” ’  ’ ’   By late August 2016, top US lawmakers had already been briefed by     Director John Brennan about suspicious   ”interactions” between Trump associates and suspected or known   Russian operatives,  the Guardian. Those interactions had reportedly   been picked up by foreign intelligence services and handed over   to their American counterparts for further investigation. ’ ’   Because the CIA deals exclusively with foreign intelligence,   however, Brennan did not have the authority to announce the   evidence the agency apparently had of the communications. So   one of the lawmakers Brennan had briefed on the matter,   Democratic Sen. Harry Reid, wrote an open letter to Comey asking   for the FBI to investigate ”the evidence of a direct   connection between the Russian government and Donald Trump’’s   presidential campaign.”  ’ ’   ”This matter should be fully investigated and the investigation   made public,” Reid . ’ ’   The letter caught the attention of Democrats on the House   Judiciary Committee, who asked Comey  whether the FBI was investigating ”the   activities of Mr. Trump or any adviser to the Trump campaign with   respect to any line of communication between the campaign and the   Russian government.” ’ ’   Comey replied that ”we don’t confirm or deny investigations.” ’ ”   Democratic Rep. Jerry Nadler pressed Comey further, addressing   what he saw as a discrepancy between the bureau’s handling of the   accusations against Clinton and Trump. ” ’  ’ ’   ”The FBI. .. acknowledged that it was investigating Secretary   Clinton’’s use of a private email server, and that was while the   investigation was still ongoing,” Nadler said. ”Now you   can’’t comment on whether there is an investigation [into Trump].   Is there a different standard for Secretary Clinton and Donald   Trump? If not, what is the consistent standard?” ’ ’   Comey replied that ”our standard is we do not confirm or deny the   existence of investigations.” But he said ”there is an   exception for that: when there is a need for the public to be   reassured; when it is obvious it is apparent, given our   activities, public activities, that the investigation is ongoing.   But our overwhelming rule is we do not comment except in certain   exceptional circumstances.” ’ ’   ”In the matter of the email investigation, it was our judgment —     my judgment and the rest of the FBI’’s judgment that those were   exceptional circumstances where the public needed transparency,”   Comey added. ’ ’   Four months after the election, Comey ultimately came to the   conclusion that the   investigation was an   ”exceptional circumstance” where transparency was in ”the public   interest.” ’ ’   By late September, when Comey testified before the House   Judiciary Committee, the election had already been rattled by   several   events that often dominated     news cycles. ’ ”   WikiLeaks had begun its steady release of emails stolen by   Russian hackers from the Democratic National Committee; Carter   Page, an early foreign policy adviser to the Trump campaign, had   traveled to Moscow and given a speech that was highly critical of   US foreign policy; Paul Manafort had been ousted as Trump’s   campaign manager amid questions about his work for a     political party in Ukraine; and Trump confidante Roger Stone had   boasted of his foreknowledge of further hacks that would   target Clinton’s campaign chairman, John Podesta. ” ”   Comey’s decision to inform Congress on October 28 that the FBI   would be revisiting the Clinton investigation  —   while still   avoiding comment on whether the bureau was pursuing an   investigation into Trump and Russia  —   was evidently the last   straw for Reid. ” ’  ’ ’   In an open letter dated October 31, Reid accused Comey of   breaking the law by making public comments about an open   investigation so close to the election, and drew a contrast to   how Comey was handling allegedly ”explosive information about   close ties” between Trump and the Kremlin. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   That letter unleashed a media frenzy, as reporters tried to pin   down exactly what ”explosive information” Reid was talking about   and whether the FBI had treated the candidates   differently.  ’ ”   But Comey continued to refuse  —   even through January and    for member of Congress  —   to clarify whether the bureau was   investigating Trump’s ties to Russia.  ” ’   Starting the  The New York Times and The Washington Post   began publishing a steady stream of reports sourced to anonymous   intelligence officials that the FBI was investigating intercepted   communications between Trump associates and Russians. Further   reports surfaced, moreover, about previously undisclosed contacts   between some of those associates  —   like Carter Page and former   national security adviser Michael Flynn  —   and Russian   ambassador Sergey Kislyak. ’ ”   On March 5, Trump alleged that the Obama administration had   ordered intelligence officials to wiretap Trump Tower amid   allegations that his campaign was colluding with the Kremlin.   Comey was reportedly furious about the accusation, and pressured   the Justice Department to publicly rebuke Trump’s claim. ” ’   The DOJ didn’’t do that. But it did authorize Comey to confirm to   Congress in an open hearing on March 20 that the FBI was   ”investigating the nature of any links between individuals   associated with the Trump campaign and the Russian government,   and whether there was any coordination between the campaign and   Russia’’s efforts.” ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’   ”It’’s still very unclear why the FBI’’s treatment of these two   investigations was so dramatically different,” Sen. Dianne   Feinstein said on Wednesday. ”With the Clinton email   investigation, it’’s been said that ’’exceptional circumstances’’   . .. required public comment from the FBI. However, I can’’t   imagine how an unprecedented, big, bold, hacking interference in   our election by the Russian government did not also present   exceptional circumstances.” ’ ’   Comey insisted that he treated both   investigations ”consistently and under the same principles.”   He also noted one difference between the two investigations  —     that in the case of the Clinton investigation, he’’d testified   under oath that it was finished before the FBI decided to revisit   it. ’ ’   ”I commented, as I explained earlier, on October 28 in a letter   that I sent to the chair and ranking [members] of the oversight   committees that we were taking additional steps in the Clinton   email investigation because I had testified under oath repeatedly   that we were done  —   that we were finished there,” Comey said. ’ ”   While Comey didn’t confirm the existence of the Trump   investigation until after the election, reports about it did   surface. ” ”   On October 31, The New York Times    about how the FBI had spent much of that summer examining   the potential ties between Trump’s associates and the Kremlin. ” ’   The Times reported that the Clinton campaign had been pushing the   FBI to discuss the probe publicly, or at least confirm that it   was ongoing, as Comey had a year prior in the case of Clinton’’s   email server. The FBI ultimately declined to do so, and law   enforcement officials told the paper that the bureau had been   unable to establish a ”clear link” between Trump associates and   Russia. ’ ’   The Times’’ piece was nuanced, leaving room for questions about   who the FBI was investigating  —   Paul Manafort, computer data   between Trump Tower and a Russian bank  —   and why. But its   headline was decisive: ”Investigating Donald Trump, F. B. I. Sees   No Clear Link to Russia,” it read. ’ ’FBI Director James Comey said in a hearing. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’