’  ’ ’   Australian prime minister Malcolm Turnbull, who flew halfway   around the world to meet with Donald Trump today, had his New   York meeting with the US president cut to just 30 minutes after   Trump stayed in Washington to celebrate Republicans finally   winning the House vote to replace ”Obamacare.” ’ ’   The pair met in dinner suits aboard the decommissioned USS   Intrepid, which is now a museum, ahead of the pair speaking at a   gala dinner to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the battle of   the Coral Sea on the ship. ’ ’   Trump flew to New York, his home town, for the first time since   he became president to meet with Turnbull    in a move   some interpret as an attempt to repair the damage caused by a   fractious phone call between the pair in the early days of   Trump’s presidency. ’ ’   But the US president called any suggestions of conflict over the   call a ”a bit of fake news.” ’ ’   ”You guys exaggerated that call,” Trump said. ”I mean, we’re not   babies. We had a great call.” ’ ’   The Australian PM spent the day meeting with US     experts and touring NYPD   Joint Operations   Centre, as well as discussing energy policy with Dow Chemical CEO   Andrew Liveris, a key Trump advisor, and meeting the Commander of   the US Pacific Command about North Korea. His meeting with the   President was put back three hours to 7. 15 p. m. local time and   cut to just 30 minutes. The White House had the pair scheduled to   discuss expanded bilateral agreements between the two nations   alongside officials from both countries. It is the first time   they’ve met in person. ’ ’  ’ ’   Trump called Turnbull to explain the reason for delaying their   meeting and held an extended press conference at the White House   before heading to New York. ’ ’   He later quipped to Turnbull that ”right now Obamacare is   failing  …     I shouldn’t say this to my great friend from Australia   because you have better healthcare than we do.” ’ ’   Repealing Obamacare was a key election promise for Trump during   the presidential campaign. ’ ’   The PM will leave New York tomorrow, returning to Australia for   Tuesday’s federal Budget. ’ ’   Speaking to the press ahead of their meeting, Trump said he loved   Australia  —   ”I always have”  —   adding it was ”one of the most   beautiful places on earth.” ’ ’   Expatriate golfer Greg Norman received a shout out from the   president as ”a friend of ours” who was at this evening’s dinner. ’ ’   Trump said the US had a ”fantastic” relationship with Australia   and promised to visit the country during his term. ’ ’   ”I have so many friends there. I will be there. We will be there   absolutely,” he said. ’ ’   Malcolm Turnbull and his wife Lucy, along with Australia’s   US ambassador, Joe Hockey, met with veterans of the Battle   of the Coral Sea aboard the Intrepid ahead of the commemorative   dinner. ’ ’Australian prime minister Malcolm Turnbull, who. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’