’  ’ ’   President Donald Trump issued his first statement on medical   marijuana since he took office. ’ ’   Trump on Friday signed a  that will keep the   federal government funded through September 30. ’ ’   The congressionally approved bill includes a rider  —   the   —   that disallows the   Department of Justice and the Drug Enforcement Agency from using   federal funds to prosecute medical marijuana businesses in states   where medical marijuana is legal. ’ ”   Marijuana is illegal at the federal level, though  have varying degrees of medical marijuana   legalization on the books. The amendment doesn’t extend to   recreational marijuana, which is . ” ’   Trump, who has  since the election,   finally gave an indication as to where he stands on the issue    after he signed the bill: ’ ’     ”Division B, section 537 provides that the Department of     Justice may not use any funds to prevent implementation of     medical marijuana laws by various States and territories. I     will treat this provision consistently with my constitutional     responsibility to take care that the laws be faithfully     executed.”   ’ ’   Tom Angell, the founder of Marijuana Majority, an advocacy group,   told Business Insider he thinks that Trump’’s statement is the   federal government’’s way of ”asserting their right” to go after   certain medical marijuana businesses if they choose to at a later   date. ’ ’   ”[M]y read is it’’s basically saying they reserve the right to do   whatever they want and enforce prohibition regardless of the   statutory prohibition on doing so,” Angell said, though he   doesn’’t think it necessarily indicates a federal crackdown on   medical marijuana is coming. ’ ’  ’ ’   A federal court  —   the 9th circuit, which   —     ruled last year that  acting in   accordance with state medical marijuana laws, despite   the Justice Department insisting the opposite, notes   Angell.  ’ ’   Michael Collins, the deputy director of the Drug Policy Alliance,   said in an email that Trump continues to send ”mixed messages” on   marijuana. ’ ’   ”After stating during the campaign that he was ’’100%’’ in support   of medical marijuana, he now issues a signing statement casting   doubt on whether his Administration will adhere to a   congressional rider that stops DOJ from going after medical   marijuana programs,” Collins said.  ’ ’   ”The uncertainty is deeply disconcerting for patients and   providers, and we urge the Administration to clarify their   intentions immediately,” Collins added.  ’ ’   Robert Capecchi, the director of federal policies for the   Marijuana Policy Project, said in an email that Congress is   growing ”increasingly comfortable” with states adopting medical   and recreational marijuana policies. ’ ’   ”Unfortunately, spending prohibitions like these expire at the   end of the fiscal year, so there is still a need for a     solution,” Capecchi added. ’ ’   Jeff Sessions, the attorney general, told Colorado Gov. John   Hickenlooper during a private meeting in April that prosecuting     marijuana businesses  for the Justice Department. ’ ’President Donald Trump issued his first. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’