’  ’ ”   Donald Trump’s transition team did not believe former national   security adviser Michael Flynn appreciated the risks of his   communications with Russia ahead of Trump’s inauguration,    on Friday. ” ’   Flynn had apparently been warned about contacts he had with   Russian ambassador Sergey Kislyak  —   communications that were   certain to have been monitored by US intelligence agencies,   according to US officials cited by The Post. ’ ’   The Trump transition teams apparently deemed the matter serious   enough to ask the Obama administration for a classified CIA   report on Kislyak to share with Flynn. ’ ’   ”The document was delivered within days, officials said, but it   is not clear that Flynn ever read it,” The Post’’s Greg Miller and   Adam Entous wrote. ’ ”   Those warnings from the Trump transition team’s national security   staff to Flynn came one month before Flynn was captured on   recordings discussing newly issued US sanctions against Russia,   The Post reported. The Obama administration had leveled those   sanctions in response to Russia’s meddling in the US presidential   election. ” ’’ ”   Just 24 days into his job as Trump’s national security adviser,    for misleading Trump   administration officials about his communications with Kislyak. ” ”   Flynn is just one piece of a growing puzzle in a     investigation of ties between Russia and people in Trump’s orbit.   A bipartisan inquiry is underway in the House and Senate, and the   FBI is also investigating. Former Deputy Attorney General Sally   Yates warned the White House in January that Flynn might be at   risk of Russian blackmail,  published this week. ” ”   Yates  that same month for   defying the president’s controversial travel ban. ” ’ to discuss warnings about Flynn that she gave to   the White House. She reportedly told White House Counsel Don   McGahn that she had ”serious concerns” about Flynn, but Flynn was   not asked to resign until February 13, at least two weeks after   Yates visited the White House. ’ ”Donald Trump’s transition team did not believe. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’