’  ’ ’   The Golden State Warriors beat the Utah Jazz    on   Thursday for a   win to go up   in the series. ’ ”   In doing so, the Warriors accomplished a remarkable feat  —   they   haven’t trailed in their past three games. The last time they   trailed in a game was Game 3 of the   series against   the Portland Trailblazers, and they still won that game. ” ’   The Warriors, of course, are a matchup nightmare for any team,   but they have recently benefitted from a surprising development   in the playoffs: Draymond Green has been their best     shooter. ’ ”   The Warriors present a    scenario for every team  —     duck under screens for Stephen Curry and Klay Thompson and   they’ll rain threes. Fight over those screens, and they’ll beat   you into the lane. Double a   and the Warriors will   swing it to a capable playmaker who will make the correct   decision in a    situation. And, sometimes, even after   playing perfect defense, Curry, Thompson, or Kevin Durant will   turn nothing into something and score on their own anyway. ” ”   The result has often been teams choosing to back off of Green,   particularly on the perimeter. Green is a capable     shooter, raising his accuracy last year to a respectable 38. 8%   from deep. But at 33% from beyond the arc for his career, it’s   understandable to leave him open. This season, Green shot just   30. 8% from deep, the   mark of his career. ” ”   In the playoffs, that’s flipped. Green has hit    from   three, good for 54%. Simply put, when Green is knocking down the   open threes teams are forced to give him, the Warriors are   impossible to stop. ” ”   In the play below, as Green sets a screen for Curry, the Jazz all   flood to recover on Curry. Joe Johnson, who was covering Durant   but got scrambled on the screen, hesitates to contest Green’s   shot, knowing the alternative is Green driving to the basket and   likely setting up an easier basket. It’s not an unwise formula  —     the Jazz are simply playing the percentages. Green made them pay. ” ’ ’ ”   The same thing happened on Green’s fourth     of the first quarter. Green set a screen for Curry, and the Jazz   all jumped to cover Curry getting open. As a result, Green was   wide open. ” ’ ’ ”   Green is the key to the Warriors offense, because he’s a great   screener and can make plays for others off the   dribble. His one relative weakness has been shooting. He later   showed why teams don’t close out hard on him at   line.   After canning four   the Jazz ran out to contest   his shot and he beat them off the dribble to find Andre Iguodala   for a layup. ” ’ ’ ”   What set up the play is similarly important. The Jazz had to   double Durant as he posted up the smaller Gordon Hayward. As   Dante Exum recovered on Green, the Warriors all fanned out of the   paint. As a result, no Jazz players were going to leave Durant,   Curry, or Thompson open to provide help on Green’s drive. Rudy   Gobert is on an island. ” ’  ’ ”   After the game, Warriors coach Mike Brown (filling in for the   injured Steve Kerr) explained Green’s space on the perimeter. ” ’   ”Obviously, [the Jazz’’s] game plan is to have whoever’’s guarding   Draymond sit in the lane. And so, he’’s getting wide open threes,   and hopefully, he’’ll keep shooting the ball the way he’’s been   shooting it throughout the playoffs and make them pay. He had   great looks, and they were not just looks where he came up and   shot it without a pass, but the ball moved a little bit and found   him at the top of the floor, and he stepped in and shot it with   confidence.” ’ ’   Green joked after the game when asked if he felt ”particularly   open,” saying, ” ’ ”   For the Jazz, there’s basically no alternative but to ignore   Green’s shooting, despite how devastating it might be.   Overreacting to Green’s shooting and sticking with him or closing   out hard on his shot attempts will only open up better looks   around the floor.  ” ”   Green has long been the Warriors’ defensive lifeblood and a key   part of their playmaking, but if he’s knocking down threes at a     level, defenses are in trouble.  ” ’The Golden State Warriors beat the Utah Jazz. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’