’  ’ ”   The race to fill Health and Human Services secretary Tom Price’s   former congressional seat in Georgia’s 6th district is officially   the most expensive House race in US history,    on Saturday.  ” ’   A total of over $29. 7 million worth of TV ads have been reserved   or aired during the campaign, which breaks a    record,   the report said. The previous record was $29. 6 million, which   went towards a 2012 House race in Palm Beach, Florida.  ’ ”   Georgia’s special election captured national attention when   former congressional aide and rising Democratic star Jon Ossoff   became a serious contender for the seat, which had been held by a   Republican for the last 40 years. ” ’   The first round of the election ended in a runoff, with Ossoff   failing to break the 50% threshold required to win an outright   victory. He received 48% of the vote in a field crowded with   Republicans, while his closest challenger, Republican Karen   Handel, garnered 20%. ’ ”   The race for the 6th district is seen by many as the first major   referendum on Donald Trump’s victory in the 2016 election, and   polls show an increasingly tight contest between Ossoff and   Handel, who is Georgia’s former secretary of state.  ” ’   One poll released on Friday  over Handel. ’ ’   Some political strategists feel the fundraising dollar   amount could go even higher ahead of the June 20 runoff,   which is still six weeks away. ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   A Republican congressman ”was just sort of a given, and a lot of   people were afraid to speak out because this is such a   conservative area,” Paule said of Georgia’’s 6th District. ’ ’   Ossoff’’s candidacy spurred Paule and her fellow organizers into   action, in large part because many saw Ossoff as their ”first   chance” to ”make a meaningful change by flipping the seat,” Paul   said, adding that the most recent Democratic candidate in the   district didn’’t campaign, have a website, take donations, or make   appearances. ’ ”   Other grassroots organizers have cited Trump’s victory as a   driving force behind their efforts to propel Ossoff to victory. ” ’   ”After Trump won the election, our group doubled in numbers,”   Shari Sprigle, one of the founders of the grassroots group   Liberal Moms of Roswell and Cobb, told Business Insider. ”During   the time of the election, we were at 600 members. Now we’’re at   1800,” she added. The group has been active in Georgia’’s 6th   district since 2015, but Sprigle said the ”level of offensiveness   of Trump” fueled the group’’s effort to flip the seat in   favor of a Democrat.  ’ ’   Republicans have also ratcheted up the amount of attention   and resources they’’re dedicating to the race. Handel’’s campaign   raised more than $1 million the week after the primary, the   report said, and she drew in an addition ”hundreds of thousands”   of dollars when Trump and House Speaker Paul Ryan spearheaded   separate fundraisers in her support. ’ ’   The Congressional Leadership Fund, a conservative super PAC,   announced that it would pour $8. 5 million into the race by   the June 20 runoff, which is a record for any outside group in a   House election.  ’ ’   Despite both sides putting an unprecedented amount of money into   this election, Republicans are aware of the future risks posed by   a spike in Democratic grassroots action.  ’ ’   ” ’ ’The race to fill Health and Human Services. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’