’  ’ ’   Jessica Lachs lived the Wall Street banker life for years,   including stints in Hong Kong and London working   for  ’ ’   Then the 2008 financial crisis struck and Lehman Brothers   collapsed.  ’ ’   Lachs left Wall Street to get an MBA, hoping that some magical   moment would strike where she would know what else to do with her   life.  ’ ’   ”I thought that I’d be sitting in a class and just have this   moment of inspiration and I’d be like ’’This is it! This is my   passion! This is what I want to do! ’’” Lachs told Business   Insider. ”That absolutely didn’t happen.” ’ ”   That moment of clarity didn’t happen in that instant, but it   would several years later when Lachs realized the   spreadsheets she’d been using as a general manager of a     startup were just the tip of the data that the   startup could be using to   its business.  ” ”   To dig deeper, Lachs taught herself how to code and learning   just one programming language to start set her on the path   to running one of the most important departments at   DoorDash, a $700 million food delivery startup that’s   challenging the likes of GrubHub and UberEats. ” ’   Lachs tends to be   so giving up her Wall Street   career on the gamble that she’’d find something she’’d love in   business school was ”really scary,” she says now looking back.   Lachs enrolled at The Wharton School at the University of   Pennsylvania and took a variety of classes trying to find   her niche in the business world. ’ ’   “It’s really easy to tell the story and say ’’Oh, I went   to business school to figure out what I wanted to do. ’’ But to   actually live through that and not know what I wanted to do and   not know where I was going to be was a pretty scary thing,” Lachs   said.  ’ ’   A basic computer science class never held her attention, but a   class in entrepreneurship started to change her perspective on   what it meant to be in business.  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”The class made me realize entrepreneurs don’t always look like   what, in my mind, they look like,” Lachs said. ”In my mind,   they’re these incredibly charismatic, white male, visionary  —     basically the opposite of me.” ’ ”   As part of her class, she started a business called  where multiple   friends or family could contribute to an expensive gift   like an iPad or expensive TV. She stuck with the business after   graduation, but before long she had to don her banker hat again   and took a hard look at her business’ numbers.  ” ’   ”While it was a nice small business, it was never going to be a   DoorDash,” Lachs said. ”That’s when I decided to do something   else.” ’ ’   It was another risk, but this time Lachs worked her way to   finding her true passion: data. ’ ’   Through the New York startup scene, she got an introduction to   Sequoia Capital, a venture firm that introduced her to Tony Xu.   The former Stanford grad had launched a food delivery   startup in Palo Alto and needed a general manager to help launch   in new cities.  ’ ’  ’ ”   Joining a tech startup as a woman didn’t give Lachs pause,   despite  towards treatment of women. Even the   most valuable private tech startup, Uber, is  into allegations of   sexual harassment in the workplace. ” ’   ”To be honest, the thought didn’t really cross my mind when   joining tech. It was just that it was going to be a lot like   banking,” Lachs said. ”The fact that I’m a woman here is sort of   a  .” ’ ’   She joined DoorDash in June 2014 when the startup only had   20 to 30 people and helped build it from there. At first, it was   a      gig, whether it was going out   to sell new restaurants or orienting new drivers (called Dashers)   to the system  —   ”even taking out the garbage every Saturday   night,” Lachs said.  ’ ”   But the more DoorDash launched new markets, more questions   would come up. Boston didn’t work the same as Palo Alto, and Los   Angeles was on a different growth trajectory than San Jose. There   were a lot of questions that the company wanted answered, but no   one in place to be that   person.  ” ’   ”Maybe I’m a    but I love having the answers to   things. And in order to get these answers, you really have to dig   into the data,” Lachs said. ”That became my role, to be the sort   of Q&A center for DoorDash.” ’ ”   Lachs’ background in banking meant she could do the job well   enough by just working on her Excel spreadsheets. But that   quickly became a limitation. DoorDash had tons of data it was   collecting on its business, from how much couriers were making on   each order to which items were the most popular on weekends, but   it was up to Lachs to start processing it.  ” ’   Determined to learn how to code, she spent two weeks  a basic programming language for working in databases   to pull and extract information. Lachs largely learned through   all of the free online classes available and leaned on her     that had experience to help her through the tricky   spots.  ’ ’   ”A   investment and you can be a beginner and pull some   basic data,” Lachs said. ”I think where people get stuck is that   basic SQL doesn’t get you very far in the real world because data   sets are never as neat and clean as the ones that are in the   tutorial. And making that jump is much trickier.” ’ ’  ’ ’   It took Lachs another month or two to learn enough that she could   solve about 80% of the questions asked of her. One of the first   challenges they tackled was learning how much a Dasher needs to   make in different markets in order to keep them working for   DoorDash and not desert to another competitor.  ’ ”   These days, Lachs team has expanded from just her to now 8 people   and she’s now  for the   company. By the end of 2017, she hopes to have doubled the number   of people on her team. ” ’   In addition to its works on the hard problems, like shaping a   market, Lachs’’ team also works on fun stuff. The company’’s   PR team loves to make crazy requests like what foods are   spiking during the presidential debates in red vs blue states, or   random trivia like how many menu items on DoorDash say ”Earth”   for Earth Day.  ’ ’   “That contributes to morale more than the bottom line, but it   just goes to show you how diverse a data role can be from some of   the   stuff to something more serious,” Lachs said. ’ ’   Just because her team has found success in building the food   delivery startup into the $700 million company it is today   doesn’’t mean Lachs has stopped trying to learn. To this day, Lach   keeps a bookmark folder on her computer called ”Learning” with   links to more courses and tutorials she wants to take. But   now, she’’s one of the leaders at DoorDash who is teaching a new   wave of employees how to analyze data beyond an Excel   spreadsheet and become empowered as a result. ’ ’   “I’m a testament to the fact that you really can teach yourself a   lot now,” Lachs said. ”There are a tonof great   resources out there if you want to learn something, between free   online resources, the videos, and just the people that you   surround yourself with  —   you can learn pretty much everything. ” ’ ’Jessica Lachs lived the Wall Street banker life. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’