’  ’ ”   Emmanuel Macron won the French presidential election in a   landslide on Sunday, becoming the youngest president in France’s   history. ” ’   Macron, a      centrist, defeated Marine Le   Pen, a   nationalist who called for France to exit the   European Union, by a margin of 65. 1 % to 34. 9% according to the   French Interior Ministry. ’ ”   His victory served as a relief to European allies who had   feared another populist result after Britain’s vote to exit the   European Union and Donald Trump’s ascension to US president last   year. ” ’   ”I know the divisions in our nation, which led some to vote for   extremist parties. I respect them,” Macron said in a victory   speech at his campaign headquarters. ”I will work to recreate the   link between Europe and its peoples, between Europe and   citizens.” ’ ’   Early reports  the   highest rate in a French presidential election since 1969,   according to The Guardian. A record 12% of voters cast a blank or   ”spoiled” ballot. ’ ”   Macron’s expected margin of victory was bigger than the gap   shown by   polls, which had projected a Macron victory   by around 20 points. ” ’  ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tThe moment outside Louvre when Emmanuel Macron was announced the 8th President of France’s 5th republic   ” ”   A former investment banker, Macron served for two years under   President François Hollande as Minister of Economy, Industry, and   Digital Data, but had never held elected office. He only   truly entered the public discourse when he rebelled against   Hollande’s socialist party and ran as an independent   presidential candidate for his En Marche! (Onwards!) movement. ” ’   Macron has expressed   and   views. He   built a reputation with his ”Macron Law,” a controversial reform   bill that allowed, among other things, longer retail hours on   Sunday.  ’ ’   The    Le Pen said she called Macron to congratulate him   and concede the election. Shortly after polls closed, Le Pen   spoke to supporters, pledging a ”profound reform” of her   party, the National Front, in an effort to create ”a   new political force.” ’ ’   ”Our patriotic and republican alliance will be the primary force   of opposition to the programme of the new president,” Le Pen said   on Sunday. ’ ’   National Front vice president Florian Philippot  as part   of the change pledged by Le Pen, according to Politico.  ’ ’   Le Pen   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’expressed all my best   wishes for the success of our country.” ’ ’  ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’t[Communiqué] Election présidentielle  ’ ’   Congratulations from other  leaders also poured in   quickly. Theresa May, the prime minister of the United   Kingdom, was quick to offer her congratulations in a statement   released Sunday. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tCongratulations to Emmanuel Macron on his big win today as the next President of France. I look very much forward to working with him! ’t’t’ ’     ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tCongratulations . Congratulations to French people for choosing Liberty, Equality and Fraternity over tyranny of fake news. ’t’t’ ’   German Chancellor Angela Merkel congratulated Macron  in   French.  ’ ’   ” ’ ’ Jake Kanter contributed reporting to this story. ’ ’Emmanuel Macron won the French presidential. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’