’  ’ ’   Republicans passed their plan to repeal and replace Obamacare   through the House this week, but the Affordable Care Act remains   the law of the land. ’ ”   That means that the ACA’s individual insurance markets are   still up and running. But under the Trump administration, they   haven’t been running very well. ” ’   Maryland, which has a   exchange instead of using the   federal Healthcare. gov platform,  from the five insurers   in its market on Thursday. ’ ’   The proposed increases are quite stunning. ’ ’   Of the five insurers, the  ’ ’’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   The payments, which help defray the cost of providing     Americans with cheaper health insurance plans, are   seen as critical to ensure the stabilization of the ACA’s   individual insurance markets. ” ’   Currently, the payments are appropriated by the White House   rather than Congress, and President Donald . The payments   are also subject to an ongoing lawsuit between the House and   executive branch questioning the legality of their funding   without a congressional appropriation. While the Obama   administration defended the case, Trump could drop an appeal of a   ruling from 2016 in which a court sided with House Republicans. ’ ’   The White House has said that it will continue funding for the   CSR payments but have not guaranteed they will be in place for   2018. ’ ’   The uncertainty led Maryland to tell insurers that  if the   payments are discontinued. ’ ’   In fact, in California,  that the   companies could submit plans that assumed CSRs would be   paid and a set of rates assuming they went unpaid. ’ ’   ”I have written President Trump asking that he and his   Administration stop undermining the Affordable Care Act and   health insurance markets,” read a letter from Dave Jones,   the California insurance commissioner, to insurers filing in the   state. ”Health insurers are legitimately concerned that the   President’’s actions are undermining the ACA and health insurance   markets.” ’ ’   Most other states have set deadlines for plan submissions in   June. ’ ”   In addition to the uncertainty regarding CSR payments, which some   experts said insurers are already baking into the rate   projections, Trump’s administration has also issued a number of   rules that could cause instability in the individual market. ” ’   A variety of insurers have already pulled out of various markets,    in part due to the political   uncertainty. ’ ’Republicans passed their plan to repeal and. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’