’  ’ ’   ABC anchor George Stephanopoulos grilled House Speaker Paul Ryan   on Sunday over the American Health Care Act, which narrowly   passed the House of Representatives on Thursday. ’ ’   In an interview on ”This Week,” Stephanopoulos first asked the   speaker why the AHCA, House Republicans’’ replacement for   President Barack Obama’’s Affordable Care Act, allowed states   to opt out of mandating that insurers not raise insurance costs   for Americans with preexisting conditions. ’ ’   ”Even if you used all $138 billion that you all put in for     pools, that would still cover only a fraction of those   with preexisting conditions,” Stephanopoulos said. ’ ’   Ryan defended a  in the bill that barred insurers for charging more   for preexisting conditions as long as individuals did not have a   lapse in their health insurance coverage, arguing that ”you can’’t   say for healthcare in America one size fits all.” ’ ’   ”Under this bill, no matter what, you cannot be denied coverage   if you have a preexisting condition,” Ryan said. ”And under this   bill, you cannot only not be denied coverage.” ’ ’   ”But you can charge people more,” Stephanopoulos interjected. ’ ’   ”Let me finish my point,” Ryan said. ”You can’’t charge people   more if they keep continuous coverage. The key of having a   continuous coverage provision is to make sure that people stay   covered and they move from one plan to the next if they want to.   It’’s kind of like waiting until your house is on fire to then buy   your homeowner’’s insurance. You want to make sure that people   stay covered to keep the cost down.” ’ ’   Stephanopoulos also pressed the speaker to answer critics who   asserted that the bill unfairly benefited the wealthy by rolling   back the taxes on high income earners that helped fund the   Affordable Care Act, the law better known as Obamacare.  ’ ’   The ABC anchor said the AHCA cuts $900 million in taxes for   individuals who earn over $200, 000 annually, while also cutting   $1 trillion in subsidies for Medicaid. ’ ’   ”Most of benefits go to millionaires,” Stephanopoulos said. ’ ’   Ryan characterized the bill as a ”a rescue operation,”   touting hypothetical benefits of  which gives states a lump sum   rather than a   amount. ’ ’   ”We’’re giving states the ability to run their own Medicaid   program,” Ryan said, arguing that   Medicaid   was ”hardly draconian.” ’ ’   ”So, you don’’t think anyone will be hurt when you’’re taking $880   billion out of the system?” Stephanopoulos asked.   ”No I don’’t, because I think the   of Medicaid by   the federal government,” Ryan replied. ”The Medicaid system isn’’t   working. Doctors aren’’t taking Medicaid, hospitals can’’t survive   with Medicaid alone. So by giving the states the ability to   customize their Medicaid population their program to work for   them.” ’ ’   Though Ryan defended the House plan, he acknowledged that the   Senate version is likely to differ significantly. ’ ’   Several top Republicans in the senate have  skepticism of the House plan, which they say   places too many costs on older, poorer Americans and would burden   some states with high healthcare costs. The Senate plans to draft   its own healthcare legislation in the coming weeks. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’t. tells : ”Under this bill, no matter what, you cannot be denied coverage if you have a   condition.”  ’ ’ ’t’t’t. says criticizing process of passing health care bill ”kind of a bogus attack from the left.”    ’ ’     ’ ’ABC anchor George Stephanopoulos grilled House. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’