’  ’ ’   President Donald Trump attempted to discredit  about his former national   security adviser, Michael Flynn. ’ ”   Testimony from former Deputy Attorney General Sally Yates and   former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper confirmed   many publicly known aspects of Flynn’s short tenure in the Trump   administration and the Russia investigation broadly, but did not   reveal classified information or elements that are still under   investigation. ” ’   After the hearing, Trump :   ”Director Clapper reiterated what everybody, including the fake   media already   there is ’’no evidence’’ of collusion     Russia and Trump.” ’ ’   Initially, Clapper testified that before he retired from his post   on January 20, he knew of no evidence of collusion between the   Trump camp and Russia during the 2016 election. Clapper later   added: ”The evidence, if there was any, didn’’t reach the   evidentiary bar in terms of the level of confidence that we were   striving for in that intelligence community assessment.” ’ ’   Trump then turned his attention to Yates, who was unable to   answer some of the committee’’s questions on Monday since they   pertained to classified information: ”Sally Yates made the fake   media extremely unhappy today     she said nothing but old news,”   Trump . ’ ’   Then the president threw another jab: ”The   collusion   story is a total hoax, when will this taxpayer funded charade   end?” Trump also added that the ”biggest story” is on   ”surveillance,” seeming to suggest that   ”unmasking”  —     the process of revealing a US citizen’’s identity in the course of   routine intelligence gathering on foreign individuals  —   was   illegal. ’ ”   Multiple US intelligence agencies are evaluating Russia’s   attempts to influence the 2016 US election in favor of Trump. A   bipartisan inquiry is also well underway in the House and Senate.   Trump has taken pains to diminish the investigations in the minds   of citizens, often by insulting US intelligence officials and   lawmakers on social media and in public. ” ’ ’ ’President Donald Trump attempted to discredit. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’