’  ’ ”   Former acting Attorney General Sally Yates and Republican Sen.   Ted Cruz of Texas got into a heated exchange Monday over   President Donald Trump’s stalled executive order barring travel   from several   countries. ” ’   Yates was removed as acting attorney general in late January   after she publicly refused to defend the initial version of the   executive order, which has since been revoked and replaced with a   slightly   proposal that is also tied up in the   courts.  ’ ’   Cruz began an exchange during a Senate Judiciary   subcommittee hearing by citing a section of the Immigration and   Nationality Act, which provides the president with broad power to   suspend the entry of foreigners he believes would be   detrimental ”to the interest of the” US. ’ ’   ”Would you agree that that is broad statutory authorization?”   Cruz asked. ’ ’   ”I would, and I am familiar with that,” Yates responded. ”And I’’m   also familiar with an additional provision . .. that says no   person shall receive preference or be discriminated against in   issuance of a visa because of race, nationality, and place of   birth. That I believe was promulgated after the statute that   you just quoted. And that’’s been part of the discussion with the   courts . .. whether this more specific statute trumps the first   one that you described.” ’ ’   She said her original concern was not whether the executive   order fit within the act, but whether it was constitutional. ’ ’   Cruz fired back, saying her points would be the ”arguments that   we can expect litigants to bring  —   partisan litigants who   disagree with the policy decision of the president.” ’ ’   He then cited a Department of Justice issuance from the Office of   Legal Counsel that approved the order ”with respect to form and   legality.” ’ ’   ”That is a determination from OLC on January 27 that it was   legal,” Cruz said. ”Three days later, you determined, using your   own words, that ’’although OLC had opined on legality, it had not   addressed whether it was wise or just. ’’” ’ ’   Yates added that she said in the same directive that she was not   convinced the executive order ”was lawful.” ’ ’   ”I also made the point that the office of OLC looks purely at the   face of the document and again makes a determination as to   whether there is some set of circumstances under which some   portion of that EO would be enforceable, would be lawful,” she   said. ”They importantly do not look outside the face of the   document. And in this particular instance, particularly where we   were talking about a fundamental issue of religious freedom, not   the interpretation of some arcane statute, but religious freedom,   it was important for us to look at the intent behind the   president’’s actions.” ’ ’   ”And the intent is laid out in his statements,” she said. ’ ”   Cruz then added a final question, asking Yates if she was   aware of any similar situation in the DOJ’s history in which an   attorney general ordered the department not to follow a policy   that had been approved by the OLC. ” ’   ”I’’m not,” she said. ”But I’’m also not aware of a situation where   the OLC was advised not to tell the AG about it until after it   was over.” ’ ’ ’ ’Former acting Attorney General Sally Yates and. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’