’  ’ ’   Former Deputy Attorney General Sally Yates  that she warned the White House about   former   adviser Michael Flynn’’s conversations   with Russia’’s ambassador so that the Trump administration ”could   take action” amid concerns Flynn could have been subject to   blackmail by the Russians. ’ ’   Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham, the chair of the subcommittee,   asked Yates what she told the White House about Flynn when she   warned them in January about his contact with Sergey Kislyak, the   Russian ambassador, during the election. ’ ’   Yates said she had had ”two   meetings and one phone   call” with White House counsel Don McGahn in January about Flynn. ’ ’   Yates explained that she called McGahn with ”a very sensitive   matter” that she needed to discuss with him in person. She and   another career Justice Department official then traveled to the   White House to meet with McGahn and one of his associates in his   office, where she told them that there had been press accounts   related to Flynn’’s conduct that the DOJ ”knew to be untrue.” ’ ’   ”We told them how we had this information, how we had acquired   it, and how we knew it was untrue,” Yates recalled. ’ ’   She continued: ”We told them that the conduct Flynn had engaged   in [speaking to Kislyak] was problematic in and of itself. We   said that the vice president was entitled to know that the   information he was giving the American people was not true. And   we told him we were concerned that the American people had been   misled about what General Flynn had done, and that we weren’’t the   only ones who knew about this.” ’ ’  ’ ’   While he was vice   Pence insisted in an interview   with CBS that Flynn and Kislyak ”did not discuss anything having   to do with the United States’’ decision to expel diplomats or   impose censure against Russia”  —   a statement that turned out to   be untrue and that set off alarm bells at the Justice Department. ’ ’   Yates said the Russians ”also knew what Flynn had done, and that   he had misled the vice president and others. This was a problem,   because the Russians likely had proof of this information, which   created a situation where he could be blackmailed by the   Russians. We told them we were giving them this information so   they could take action. McGahn asked me if Flynn should be fired.   I said that wasn’’t my call.” ’ ’   Yates met with McGahn again on January 27, during which McGahn   asked her why the DOJ cared if ”one White House official lied to   another.” He also wanted to know if the Department of Justice was   pursuing a criminal case against Flynn, and expressed concern   that firing Flynn could ”interfere with the FBI taking action   against” him. McGahn also asked Yates to see the DOJ’’s evidence   of Flynn’’s conversations with Kislyak. ’ ’   The FBI is investigating Flynn’’s contact with Kislyak as part of   its probe into Russia’’s interference in the 2016 election. The   bureau interviewed Flynn about his conversations with Kislyak in   January as part that probe, but Yates said she could not disclose   ”how Flynn did” in that interview because the investigation is   ongoing. ’ ”   Yates said that she called McGahn on January 30  —   hours before   she was fired by Trump for refusing to enforce his first   immigration order  —   to tell him that he could come over to the   DOJ to review the details of Flynn’s communication with Kislyak.   She said she didn’t know if McGahn ever took the DOJ up on that   offer, however, because she was fired shortly thereafter. ” ’   Yates told Democratic Sen. Chris Coons that, in the course of the   meetings, ”Mr. McGahn demonstrated that he understood that this   was serious.” But she said she didn’’t know if the White House   took any additional steps to restrict Flynn’’s access to sensitive   or classified information. ’ ’   ”If they didn’’t take any action, that would certainly be   concerning,” Yates said. ’ ’   Flynn was asked to resign roughly 18 days after Yates first   warned McGahn about his conversations with Kislyak. Democratic   Sen. Al Franken asked if Yates had any idea why Trump did not   fire Flynn immediately, but she replied that she could not   comment. ’ ’   Democratic Sen. Dick Durbin asked Yates if there was ”anything   else” Yates warned McGahn about with respect to Flynn’’s   relationship with Russia. She replied that she and McGahn only   discussed the issue of Flynn’’s conversations with Kislyak. ’ ”   Flynn has come under scrutiny for  from Russia’s   news   agency, Russia Today, when he was renewing his security clearance   in January 2016. NBC reported on Monday that Flynn never obtained   the broader security clearance from the CIA that he needed to   serve as national security adviser before he resigned on February   13. ” ’   President Barack Obama in November warned Trump, then the     against hiring Flynn as his national security   adviser, multiple media outlets reported on Monday. ’ ’   Sen. Graham asked Yates and Clapper later how The Washington Post   learned that Flynn had communicated with Kislyak. They both   replied that neither of them had leaked the information to the   press, but Yates noted that the intelligence community sometimes   releases its reports  —   which go to several officials across the   US government  —   with the name of the US person caught up in   incidental surveillance of a   person already unmasked. ’ ’Former Deputy Attorney General Sally Yates told. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’