’  ’ ’   White House deputy press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders told    on Tuesday that   ”it’’s time to move on” from the investigations into whether   President Donald Trump colluded with Russia during the 2016   presidential election. ’ ’   Sanders’’ comments came hours after Trump fired FBI Director James   Comey, which she said would not have an impact on the FBI’’s   investigation into Trump’’s Russia ties. She said that she thinks   the larger point, however, is ”when are they going to let that   go?” ’ ’   ”It’’s been going on for nearly a year,” Sanders said. ”Frankly,   it’’s kind of getting absurd. There’’s nothing there. We’’ve heard   it time and time again. We heard it in the testimonies earlier   this week. We’’ve heard it for the last 11 months. There is no   ’’there’’ there. It’’s time to move on, and frankly, it’’s time to   focus on things the American people care about.” ’ ”   Comey testified before the House Intelligence Committee in March   that the FBI was still in its early stages of the   counterintelligence investigation into Russia’s election   interference and whether the Trump campaign was involved.   Counterintelligence probes often take years, and lawmakers on   both the House and Senate Intelligence Committees said the   investigations could seep into the 2018 midterm elections. ” ”   Most Democrats and a handful of Republicans  Trump’s decision to fire Comey, who was in the middle   of investigating the Trump campaign’s ties to Russia when he was   unexpectedly fired on Tuesday evening. ” ”   The dismissal has emboldened calls from both parties to the   Justice Department, however,  to oversee the bureau’s Russia investigation.   Others are insisting that Comey appear before the appropriate   congressional committees to testify about the investigation now   that he is a private citizen. ” ’   Former National Security Agency lawyer Susan Hennessey wrote in   Lawfare blog on Tuesday that ”getting rid of Comey. ..removes the   guy who can look Congress in the eye and say credibly that the   FBI is investigating whether anyone in the Trump orbit was   actively working with the Russians.” ’ ’   ”It removes the guy who, in February,  the White House’s request to publicly knock down   stories about Trump and Russia while congressmen in key positions   of investigatory responsibility” Hennessey continued. ”It removes the one person of   stature (figurative as well as literal) in the government whom   everyone knows    when he’s    what he thinks is   the right thing and damn the torpedoes. It removes, in other   words, the essential person for a credible investigation.” ’ ”   Sessions and Rosenstein said in their statements that they   recommended firing Comey because of how he handled the   investigation into Hillary Clinton’s email server. But New York   Times reporter Michael Schmidt reported that Sessions had been   trying to find an excuse to fire Comey for at least a week. ” ’ ’ ’.: ”It’’s time to focus on the things that the American people care about.”  ’ ’White House deputy press secretary Sarah. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’