And now we wait. After 18 months of the most surreal, divisive, angry and psychologically exhausting presidential campaign in modern times, there’s nothing to do but sit in suspense on Election Day. For hour after hour. Which is why The   is giving listeners a better way to pass the time: by answering the big remaining questions from you, our listeners, in a special   episode. We summoned the Times political team to field your inquiries about the candidates, the issues, the polls and how we  —   and everyone else in the news media  —   will make the call on Tuesday night about who won. And we answer a nagging question that we keep hearing: What exactly is the future of The  ? Joining us are Maggie Haberman, Amy Chozick, Jonathan Martin, Michael Grynbaum and Nate Cohn. From a desktop or laptop, you can listen by pressing play on the button above. Or if you’re on a mobile device, the instructions below will help you find and subscribe to the series. On your iPhone or iPad: 1. Open your podcast app. It’s a   app called “Podcasts” with a purple icon. (This link may help.) 2. Search for the series. Tap on the “search” magnifying glass icon at the bottom of the screen, type in “The  ” and select it from the list of results. 3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, tap on the “subscribe” button to have new episodes sent to your phone free. You may want to adjust your notifications to be alerted when a new episode arrives. 4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before deciding to subscribe, tap on the episode title from the list on the series page. If you have an internet connection, you’ll be able to stream the episode. On your Android phone or tablet: 1. Open your podcast app. It’s a   app called “Play Music” with an    icon. (This link may help.) 2. Search for the series. Click on the magnifying glass icon at the top of the screen, search for the name of the series and select it from the list of results. You may have to scroll down to find the “Podcasts” search results. 3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, click on the word “subscribe” to have new episodes sent to your phone free. 4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before deciding to subscribe, click on the episode title from the list on the series page. If you have an internet connection, you’ll be able to stream the episode.