’  ’ ’   In the wake of the abrupt firing of FBI Director James Comey,   several Democratic Congressmen are comparing President   Donald Trump to another   leader: Richard Nixon. ’ ’   Before his surprise dismissal, Comey had been leading probes   into possible collusion between Trump associates and Russia   during the 2016 election. To some lawmakers, his firing was   reminiscent of the ”” of   1973, when   Nixon unexpectedly fired Archibald   Cox, the special prosecutor charged with investigating the   Watergate scandal. ’ ’   ”President Trump’’s firing of Director Comey sets a deeply   alarming precedent as multiple investigations into possible Trump   campaign or administration collusion with Russia remain ongoing,   including an FBI investigation,” Sen. Edward Markey of   Massachusetts said in a statement. ”This episode is disturbingly   reminiscent of the Saturday Night Massacre during the Watergate   scandal and the national turmoil that it caused.” ’ ’   Sen. Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut seemed to agree. ’ ’   ”Not since Watergate have our legal systems been so threatened,   and our faith in the independence and integrity of those systems   so shaken,” he said in a statement.  ’ ”   Nixon’s firing of Cox deepened public distrust of the   president and contributed to his eventual resignation. ” ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tPresident Trump’s dismissal of FBI Director Comey smacks of President Nixon’s Saturday Night Massacre. ’t’t” ’ ’t’t’tThis is Nixonian. Deputy AG Rod Rosenstein must immediately appoint a special prosecutor to continue the   investigation. ’t’t’ ’ ’t’t’tCordes: ”Do you agree that it was a ’’Nixonian’’ move? ”Manchin: ”I’’m old enough to remember. .. & it didn’’t come out so well for Pres. Nixon.”  ’ ’ ’t’t’tConyers: Trump’s Nixonian Comey Firing is a Clear Cover Up   ’ ’  fired . Nixon fired Cox, Richardson, and Ruckelshaus. Didn’t work then, won’t work now.  ’ ’ ’t’t’tNEW:  tells me Trump’s abrupt firing of Comey is “very, very reminiscent” of Nixon during Watergate  ’ ” ’t’t’tIt’s the Saturday Night Massacre redux. (President firing the head of the agency investigating him.)    ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tFUN FACT: President Nixon never fired the Director of the FBI    ’ ’In the wake of the abrupt firing of FBI. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’