’  ’ ’   Democratic lawmakers quickly came up with a  for President Donald Trump’’s unexpected firing of   FBI Director James Comey  —   the ”Tuesday Afternoon Massacre.” ’ ’   The   moniker is a reference to the ”Saturday Night   Massacre” on October 20, 1973, when   Richard   Nixon fired special prosecutor Archibald Cox amid Cox’’s   investigation into the Watergate scandal. ’ ’   Critics of Trump instantly drew parallels between Cox and   Comey, who was leading an investigation into possible ties   between Trump and Russia.  ’ ’   Here’’s what happened during the ”Saturday Night Massacre.” ’ ’   Cox had been appointed by Attorney General Elliot Richardson   in May 1973 to investigate the   of the Watergate office   complex one year earlier. ’ ’’ ’   In July 1973, Cox issued a subpoena to Nixon,   asking the president to turn over recordings of   conversations between Nixon and White House officials that were   taped in the Oval Office. ’ ”   Nixon demurred, instead offering Cox a compromise in which   Sen. John Stennis would review the tapes and issue a summary for   Cox’s office. ” ’   But when Cox turned down the compromise, the   president ordered Richardson, his attorney general, to   fire Cox. Richardson refused and resigned in protest, as did   Deputy Attorney General William Ruckelshaus. Solicitor General   Robert Bork, who was next in line in the Justice Department,   followed through with the firing, completing the ”massacre.” ’ ”   The dismissal contributed to the public’s growing distrust in   Nixon, and calls to impeach the president immediately   intensified. When the Watergate tapes were made public in   August of the following year, including one in which   Nixon told officials to ask the FBI to stop the   investigation, his support all but disappeared. He resigned in   disgrace three days later. ” ’   For 44 years, the Saturday Night Massacre was the only time a   president has fired the person leading an investigation bearing   on him, . ’ ”   That all changed with Comey’s firing on Tuesday, and for Trump,   the Nixonian comparisons may be just beginning. ” ’Democratic lawmakers quickly came up with a. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’