’  ’ ”   Republican Sen. Mike Lee garnered attention Thursday after   tweeting that President Donald Trump should appoint none other   than Judge Merrick Garland  —   President Barack Obama’s choice to   fill a vacant Supreme Court seat last year  —   to replace James   Comey as FBI director. ” ”   Lee, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee who is one of the   chamber’s most conservative members, pitched the idea to White   House officials Wednesday following a previously scheduled   meeting with Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin to discuss tax   reform, his communications director told Business Insider. ” ’   ”Some of whom like the idea and others of whom did not,” said   Conn Carroll, Lee’’s communications director, adding that Lee did   not directly pitch the idea to Trump. ’ ’   The idea caught wind early Thursday after Lee’’s tweet. Democratic   Sen. Amy Klobuchar, of Minnesota, with whom Carroll said Lee   discussed the proposition, tweeted that it was a ”great idea.” ’ ’   ”Former prosecutor Merrick Garland for FBI Director is great   idea,” . She said, however, that there needed to be a ”special   prosecutor too” to look into any potential collusion between the   Trump campaign and Russian government officials, an investigation   the FBI has had underway since late July. ’ ’   She later tweeted, however, that ”to be clear, this isn’’t going   to happen.” ’ ’   ”I RTed bc it’’s a good idea for Rs to think about consensus FBI   candidates,” . ’ ’ Charlie Gasparino reported that  was a fan of the idea. ’ ’   The idea was met with  on the left. If Garland were appointed to lead the   FBI, Trump would be able to increase the number of conservatives   on the DC Circuit bench where Garland currently sits. ’ ”   Carroll described some of Lee’s thinking behind the idea while   speaking with Business Insider. ” ’   ”Before he was a judge, Garland was a longtime federal   prosecutor, including overseeing the Unabomber and Oklahoma City   bombing investigations and prosecutions, and obviously he’’s well   respected on both sides of the aisle,” he said, making note of   Garland’’s tenure as deputy assistant attorney general in the   DOJ’’s criminal division during President Bill Clinton’’s   administration. ”So we would be able to restore trust to the FBI,   which I think everyone acknowledges had some problems while   Comey’’s been director. So that was the thinking there.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Carroll said the role of the Senate ”is not to demand a special   prosecutor” but to ”advise and consent on who” will replace   Comey. ’ ’   ”And Sen. Lee is doing that job,” he said. ’ ”   When Garland was nominated in March 2016 to fill Justice Antonin   Scalia’s vacancy on the Supreme Court, Republican tactics   prevented him from receiving a confirmation hearing or vote.   Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell used the vacant Supreme   Court seat as a campaign issue for the fall, saying the next   president should fill the vacancy. ” ”   It worked, and Trump nominated Judge Neil Gorsuch to fill the   vacancy shortly after his inauguration. Democrats attempted   similar obstructionist tactics, but without a Senate majority   they were unable to stop Gorsuch’s confirmation. ” ’Republican Sen. Mike Lee garnered attention. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’