’  ’ ”   A top White House spokeswoman was grilled by reporters during   Thursday’s White House press briefing  —   one that came as several   White House storylines were  by acting FBI Director Andrew McCabe and even   President Donald Trump himself. ” ’   The briefing came after McCabe, in testimony to the Senate   Intelligence Committee, rebuked the White House claim that      FBI agents supported the decision to oust FBI   Director James Comey earlier this week. ’ ’   And just an hour earlier, Trump  advanced by officials as high as Vice   President Mike Pence, that Trump decided to oust Comey at   the recommendation of Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein.   Instead, Trump said he was going to fire Comey regardless of any   recommendation. ’ ’   Trump also called Comey a ”showboat” and a ”” and   explained the curious claim from his letter firing Comey   that the FBI director told him on three occasions  Comey’’s bureau was leading an   investigation into potential collusion between the Trump campaign   and Russian officials to swing the November presidential   election, and critics have accused Trump of ousting Comey to   help end the investigation. ’ ’   Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House deputy press secretary,   was relentlessly pressed with a barrage of questions on   those subjects. ’ ’   ”You said now today, and I think you said again yesterday, that   you personally have talked to countless FBI officials employees   since this happened,” a reporter asked, referring to Sanders’’   claim Wednesday that the FBI’’s    supported Comey’’s   dismissal. ’ ’   ”Correct,” she responded. ’ ’   ”I mean, really? !” the reporter shot back. ’ ’   Sanders said that ”between email, text messages” she ”absolutely”   heard from many agents who agreed with the president’’s decision. ’ ’   The reporter asked for a number. ’ ’   ”50? 60? 70?” he asked. ’ ’   ”Look, we’’re not going to get into a numbers game,” Sanders said.   ”I have heard from a large number of individuals who work at the   FBI who said they’’re very happy with the president’’s decision.” ’ ’   Sanders was asked earlier about what led her and the White House   to ”believe” Comey ”lost the confidence of the FBI when [McCabe]   says it’’s exactly the opposite.” ’ ’   ”Well, I can speak to my own personal experience,” she said.   ”I’’ve heard from countless members of the FBI who are grateful   for the president’’s decision. You know, we may have to agree to   disagree. I’’m sure there are some people who are disappointed.   But I’’ve certainly heard from a large number of individuals, and   that’’s just myself. And I don’’t even know that many people in the   FBI.” ’ ”   A reporter brought up how Pence said repeatedly   Wednesday that Trump made his decision because of   Rosenstein’s recommendation, a point that Trump himself   contradicted during his interview with NBC’s Lester Holt. ” ’  ’ ’   ”That doesn’’t mean he still wouldn’’t accept his recommendation,”   Sanders said. ”I mean, why are we arguing about the semantics of   whether or not he accepted it? They agreed!” ’ ’   ”I’’m not sure how he didn’’t accept the deputy attorney general’’s   recommendation when they agreed with each other,” she continued. ’ ’   Sanders said it was ”frankly . .. kind of sad” that Democrats   didn’’t unite with the White House on the Comey issue. ’ ”   Democrats had criticized Comey for his handling of the   investigation into Democratic presidential nominee Hillary   Clinton’s use of a private email server while she served as   secretary of state under President Barack Obama. Rosenstein used   that rationale to explain why he should be fired in a letter   he addressed to Attorney General Jeff Sessions. ” ’   ”Democrats want to play partisan games, and I think that’’s the   most glaring thing that’’s being left out of all of your process   stories,” she told the White House correspondents. ’ ’   Asked if she felt the president asking a sitting FBI director   about whether he was under investigation was a conflict of   interest or unethical, Sanders said she did not believe it was. ’ ’   ”I don’’t see that as a conflict of interest, and neither do the   legal scholars and others that have been commenting on it for the   last hour,” she said. ”So no, I don’’t see that as an issue.” ’ ’   On Trump calling Comey a ”showboat” and a ””   Sanders said it was ”probably based on the numerous appearances   that he made.” ’ ’   ”And I think that it’’s probably pretty evident in his behavior   over the last year or so with the    and I think that   it speaks pretty clearly,” she said. ”Those words don’’t leave a   lot of room for interpretation, so I think it’’s pretty clear what   he meant.” ’ ’   After saying the firing encouraged the White House to have more   confidence the investigation into Russian interference could be   completed, a reporter asked how that could be if Trump ”just   fired the man who was overseeing the Russia investigation?” ’ ’   ”There are multiple people that are a part of this and it’’s not   just the FBI,” Sanders said. ”You’’ve got the House committee, the   Senate committee and, look, again, the point is we want this to   come to its conclusion, we want this to come to conclusion with   integrity, and we think that we’’ve actually, by removing Director   Comey, taken steps to make that happen.” ’ ’   She said Comey was fired ”because he was not fit to do the job.” ’ ’   ”It’’s that simple,” Sanders said. ”This shouldn’’t be a   complicated process. The president knew that Director Comey was   not up to the task. He decided he wasn’’t the right person in the   job. He wanted somebody that could bring credibility back to the   FBI that had been lost over this last several months. The   president made that decision, he made it, he moved forward, it   was the right one.” ’ ’A top White House spokeswoman was grilled by. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’