’  ’ ”   White House press secretary Sean Spicer would neither confirm nor   deny during Friday’s press briefing that President Donald Trump   has recorded audio of his private White House conversations,   including his January dinner with ousted FBI Director James   Comey. ” ”   Spicer’s comments came as a response to Trump’s  which appeared to serve as a threat to Comey. ” ’   ”James Comey better hope that there are no ’’tapes’’ of our   conversations before he starts leaking to the press!” . ’ ’   The first series of questions Spicer faced in the briefing   centered around the tweet. ’ ’   ”I’’ve talked to the president” about that tweet, Spicer said.   ”The president has nothing further to add to that.” ’ ’   ”Why did he say that?” Reuters White House correspondent Jeff   Mason said. ’ ’   ”As I mentioned, the president has nothing further to add to   that,” Spicer said. ’ ’   ”Are there recording devices in the Oval Office or the   residence?” Mason then asked. ’ ’   ”As I’’ve said for the third time, there’’s nothing further to add   to that,” Spicer responded. ’ ’   ”Does he think it’’s appropriate to threaten someone like Mr.   Comey not to speak?” Mason asked. ’ ’   Spicer said he didn’’t the tweet was ”a threat.” ’ ’   ”He’’s simply stated a fact,” Spicer said. ”The tweet speaks for   itself. I’’m moving on.” ’ ’ ’ ”   Later, Spicer was asked by another reporter if Trump had a tape   of his conversation with Comey in late January. Trump told NBC’s   Lester Holt Thursday that Comey provided him during the dinner   with an assurance that the president was not under investigation.   Since late July, the FBI has been conducting a   counterintelligence investigation into potential collusion   between the Trump campaign and Russian government officials. ” ’   Additionally, the New York Times reported Thursday that during   that dinner, Trump  to pledge his loyalty. He declined to do so at   least twice during the dinner, The Times reported, citing two   people close to Comey who had knowledge of the conversation. ’ ’   ”I’’m not aware of that,” Spicer said of a potential tape. ’ ’   Earlier Friday, a ”source close to Comey”  the   ousted FBI director ”hopes there are tapes.” ’ ’   ”That would be perfect,” the source told NBC. ’ ’   The top House Democrats on the Oversight and Judiciary Committees   sent a letter to White House Counsel Donald McGahn to request   copies of ”all recordings in possession of the White House   regarding this matter.” ’ ’   Those Democrats, Reps. Elijah Cummings of Maryland and John   Conyers of Michigan, also requested ”all documents, memoranda,   analyses, emails, and other communications relating to the   President’s decision to dismiss Director Comey  —   a decision which   the president declared yesterday he planned to make ”regardless   of [Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein’’s] recommendation”  —     and all discussions with Director Comey.” ’ ’White House press secretary Sean Spicer would. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’