’  ’ ’   Fox News host Chris Wallace voiced his discomfort with White   House press secretary Sean Spicer’’s answer to a reporter’’s   questions regarding President Donald Trump’’s ”tape” tweet made on   Friday. ’ ’   Trump  in   reference to his FBI director that he fired earlier this week:   ”James Comey better hope that there are no ’’tapes’’ of our   conversations before he starts leaking to the press!” ’ ’   Spicer, during his daily White House press briefing, answered   reporter Jeff Mason’’s question of . ”The President has   nothing further to add on that,” said Spicer. ”That’’s not a   threat, he simply stated a fact. The tweet speaks for itself.” ’ ’   ”When I heard that exchange today between Jeff Mason, a White   House reporter, and Sean Spicer speaking from the podium in the   briefing room for the President of the United States, it took my   break away,” said Wallace to Fox News host Shepard Smith. ”He was   asked specifically, ’’Is there a recording device in the Oval   Office of the President of the United States? ’’ He said, ’’I have   nothing for you on that. ’’” ’ ”   Wallace, whose career spans decades of service in several news   outlets, also made the comparison between the Watergate scandal   during Richard Nixon’s tenure in the 1970s. ” ’   ”That was what in Watergate they called a   denial,”   said Wallace. ”[Spicer] could have said ’’no. ’’ He could have said   ’’yes. ’’ He said ’’I have nothing for you on that. ’’” ’ ’   ”Look, it may just be that the president is trolling the press   corps and saying ’’Work yourself into a frenzy about all this’’ and   turns out it’’s nothing,” continued Wallace. ”But why would he do   that? Why would he want to decrease the credibility which is   already in question of this White House and comments that are   made from that podium? ’ ’   ”It seems to me that you’’re playing a very dangerous game with   the currency of the credibility of the President of the United   States.” ’ ’ ’ ’Fox News host Chris Wallace voiced his. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’