’  ’ ’   President Donald Trump’’s ambitious trade agenda has been caught   up by what one reformer compared to something out of a movie,   complete with a ”civil war” type scene between competing factions   of his nascent administration. ’ ’   The early acts of this film proved disappointing to some of his   trade allies, even as his administration crossed the   mark   by pointing to a withdrawal from the   Partnership,   an increased emphasis on enforcement of trade laws already on the   books, and a series of executive orders aimed fulfilling at his   campaign promises. ’ ”   But as NAFTA renegotiation or withdrawal remains at the starting   gate, a number of Goldman Sachs executives maintain     positions in the administration, and Trump has softened his   stance on China to help deal with North Korea, those aligned with   the president’s trade platform are increasingly cautious in their   expectations. His opponents are beginning to breathe a sigh of   relief. ” ’   ”I think the end of the movie has not been written for how Trump   is going to or not going to enact his promised trade policy   changes,” said  head   of Public Citizen’’s Global Trade Watch, which supports the trade   platform Trump outlined on the campaign trail. ”I would say that   Act 1 has been extremely disappointing, and Act 2 is some kind of   Civil War scene. But we won’’t know what Act 3 is for some time.” ’ ’   The civil war has played out between the two wings of his   administration. One, the ”New York” wing, contains figures such   as National Economic Council Chair Gary Cohn. The more hawkish   Trump trade wing of the White House includes National Trade   Council Chair Peter Navarro and chief strategist Steve Bannon,   the administration’’s foremost nationalist. ’ ”   The latter camp gained an important ally this week when the   Senate finally confirmed Robert Lighthizer to be the US trade   representative, clearing the way for more centralized approach to   the president’s trade ambitions. ” ’   But in a recent battle on the the North American Free Trade   Agreement, the ”globalists” won. Navarro and Bannon drafted a   letter that would have announced the US’’s intention to withdraw   from the   agreement with Canada and Mexico. Trump was   reportedly just days from pulling out of the deal. ’ ’   At what seemed to be the last moment, several administration   officials, including Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue and   Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross, talked him out of the withdrawal.   Calls from Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto and Canadian   Prime Minister Justin Trudeau  rather than an   imminent withdrawal. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”I think there are two things that are going on,” Wallach said.   ”The sort of conventional wisdom version is, which I think is   totally wrong, ’’Ah, there is finally adult supervision’’ or, ’’Wow,   reality has finally caught up with Trump’’s economic policies. ’’” ’ ’   She outlined the ”Civil War” she sees: ’ ”   The apparent conflict that has trade allies a bit uneasy, to say   the least, has Trump’s trade opponents feeling good. ” ’   ”I think early on, there was a lot of concern,” Lee Branstetter,   a Carnegie Mellon University professor who served on President   Barack Obama’’s Council of Economic Advisers from 2011 through   2012, told Business Insider. ”What he was saying in the campaign,   what was in the offing once he took office would be a radical   departure from the five or six decades of, you know, fairly   bipartisan support for open trade and investment policies.” ’ ’   ”This was quite radical rhetoric,” he continued. ”But what we’’ve   encountered so far is, I think aptly, is somewhat satirically   characterized as ’’speak loudly and carry a small stick. ’’” ’ ”   Still, many trade reformers are encouraged by several of Trump’s   steps, even if they are equally dismayed by other actions. And   they view Lighthizer’s confirmation as a positive step. Without   Lighthizer confirmed, the top 10 politically appointed positions   at the USTR’s office that need Senate confirmation remained   unfilled as a result. ” ’   That, as some experts noted, is the prime reason why a draft   NAFTA renegotiation letter delivered to Congress by the   administration in late March was less than exciting to many trade   reformers. A representative from Democratic Sen. Sherrod Brown’’s   office told Business Insider that Brown, one of Congress’’ top   trade hawks, felt it was weak on a number of key areas. Wallach   said the letter ”did not do any of the things that would be   necessary to deliver on his underlying pledge that his trade   policy will bring down the trade deficit and create more   manufacturing jobs.” ’ ’  ’ ”   The White House told Business Insider that the slow process   surrounding Lighthizer’s confirmation should be blamed on   Democratic obstruction. A White House official said that without   Lighthizer in place, it would be difficult to start a number of   initiatives they have in mind. ” ’   The official pushed back that the ”civil war” perceived by some   allies was stalling the White House’’s trade agenda, the saying   the evidence doesn’’t back up the narrative. ’ ’   ”These strong orders on trade and these significant judgments   being rendered from Commerce and significant penalties being   assessed,” the official said, making note of Trump’’s executive   order calling for an investigation into steel imports, as well as   the recent tariffs . ”It’’s all been action, and it’’s going to   continue being that way.” ’ ’   ”That’’s all stuff the president talked about during the   campaign,” the official continued. ”So I think, yeah, of course   everyone wants to talk about palace intrigue and it works with   what the rest of the press is saying about the White House. But I   think, especially in terms of trade, if you look at what’’s   actually happening, it’’s a pretty strong case that the president   is following through on that promise.” ’ ’   The administration official repeatedly pointed to the withdrawal   from TPP as the administration’’s biggest move on trade, when it   pulled out of what was President Barack Obama’’s landmark     legacy item in the Pacific. It was a rallying cry   during the campaign, thrilled many trade reform advocates, and   infuriated many economists such as Branstetter, who called it a   ”huge mistake.” ’ ’   ”He followed through,” the official said. ”So that’’s obviously a   big deal.” ’ ’   But early last month, Trump flipped on one of his biggest   promises  —   to label China a currency manipulator on the first day   of his presidency. ’ ’   While the act of labeling China as a currency manipulator would   have been far from definitive in and of itself, the idea Trump   was leveraging trade relations to get China to help out on North   Korea  —   a sign that Trump was softening his stance toward China   overall  —   was scary to those who want to see Trump carry out his   agenda. ’ ’   From one end of the spectrum to the other, Trump went from   promising to label the country a manipulator on his first day in   office to telling the press that the country was no longer   manipulating its currency. ’ ’   ”The Republicans and Democrats in our organization that support   Trump’s trade policies are growing concerned that the   administration could, like the Obama administration, allow China   to continue gutting the US middle class so long as they promise   to help on certain foreign policy issues,” Michael Stumo, the CEO   of Coalition for a Prosperous America, told Business Insider. ’ ’   ”The   voters who elected President Trump will not be   satisfied with a claim that China is no longer manipulating,” he   said. ’ ’   Branstetter, who said it was surprising that Trump would pivot   from the position after making so much noise about it, said it   was indicative of the overall Trump platform, as there’’s ”no   policy or person that he seems permanently wedded to.” ’ ’   ”It’’s really a microcosm of how the whole Trumpian trade agenda   seems to be evolving,” he said. ’ ’  ’ ’   Wallach called the move ”perhaps the most startling” of Trump’’s   early days in office. ’ ’   ”He admitted he was breaking his promise was the very basis on   which he savagely attacked previous presidents, which was as a   foreign policy trade off instead of trade outcomes,” she said. ’ ’   Wallach pointed to another one of Trump’’s early trade moves  —   his   ”Buy American, Hire American” executive order  —   as a piece that   helps illuminate the administration’’s    approach   to the trade debate. ’ ’   While she called the order an ”important, useful first step,” her   organization  Trump’’s White House is continuing to   provide government contracts to companies that continue to   offshore jobs. According to the report, that includes United   Technologies,  after helping to keep several hundred Carrier jobs in   Indiana. ’ ’   Stumo, who expressed approval and appreciation for many of   Trump’’s early executive orders, said it’’s still too early to make   a real determination of Trump’’s record on trade. He called it ”a   mix.” ’ ’   ”I don’’t know that it’’s violated our expectations or met them,”   he said. ’ ’   But he did not mince words when discussing what has let him down:   the presence of Cohn. ’ ’   ”We are disappointed that Trump brought in the Goldman Sachs   faction,” he said. ”The globalist faction. That’’s worrisome on   the National Economic Council, including past folks who   negotiated the TPP. That’’s probably the biggest disappointment.   Plants seeds for the same old Clinton, Bush, Obama trade policy   if they get their way.” ’ ’   Branstetter, who sees many of the executive orders and   enforcement measures taken by the administration as ”nickel and   dime stuff,” pointed to what he believes is the shrinking   influence of Bannon, countered with Cohn’’s growing profile, as   ”quite reassuring to many” opponents of the Trump campaign trade   agenda. ’ ’   He called Cohn the seemingly ”most   and    ” member of the administration. ’ ’   ”We thought we were on the brink of something quite apocalyptic,”   he said. ”And they’’ve taken several steps back now from the   precipice.” ’ ’   While some in the administration have been successful in   convincing Trump that the antithesis of his trade agenda is, on   occasion, the ”winning” side to pick, Wallach offered a plea to   see the bigger picture. ’ ’   ”On this, he will personally be a loser if he does not deliver to   his voters who brought him to Washington,” she said. ”The balance   of   gratification and   winning status is   playing out.” ’ ”President Donald Trump’s ambitious trade agenda. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’