’  ’ ”   We’re starting to get a clearer picture of some of the   consequences of cancer immunotherapy, a new area of   therapies that harness the body’s immune system to take on cancer   cells.  ” ”   The drugs have generated a lot of excitement for the   revolutionary way they treat cancer. The drugs don’t have the   same side effects as chemotherapy, and in cases   like  ” ’   But now, as more data comes out and newer waves of drugs get   closer to approval, that excitement is starting to get tempered   in the face of deadly side effects and failed trials.  ’ ”   The first wave of these treatments are called checkpoint   inhibitors. Most people have a type of protein that stops their   immune systems from fighting the cancerous cells. These   checkpoint inhibitors block those proteins. It’s like taking   down a guard tower, allowing the body’s own immune system to   flood past a barrier, where it then gets to work killing and   clearing away the cancer cells. ” ’   Checkpoint inhibitors were first approved to treat melanoma but   have since gone on to tackle lung cancer, bladder cancer, blood   cancers, and other cancers. There are now six approved .  ’ ”   But they’re far from perfect.  could be . ” ’   Now, a second wave of cancer immunotherapy is facing some   challenges.  Short for ”chimeric antigen   receptor”   therapy, the treatment takes a person’’s own   cells, takes them out of the body, reengineers them, then puts   the cells back in the body where they can attack a particular   cancer cell. ’ ”   But on Monday,  while in a   clinical trial for its     therapy from cerebral   edema, a condition in which the brain swells up because of   excessive fluid in the brain. It’s not the first time these   therapies have experienced that severe side effect. ” ”   In July, another   company, Juno Therapeutics, said four   people in its  all from cerebral edema. It’s   dampened the excitement that people once had for the   therapy.  ” ’  ’ ’   The   therapies are ”assassins,”  That makes them a really powerful weapon, he   said, but that can be good and bad depending on whether it’’s   hitting the intended cancer target or accidentally affecting   other parts of the body. ’ ”   Gritstone is working on another type of cancer immunotherapy   called cancer vaccines that wants to help amplify the body’s   immune system to fight off cancer cells. ” ’   Even with the deaths that have been reported, there still could   be an upside to treating some patients with the drug even if   there are deadly risks attached.  ’ ’   ”I feel there is a long way to go. And ultimately if in many   cases it’’s curing patients, we have to take the risk and   then manage the benefits,” Roman Yelensky, chief technology   officer at Gritstone Oncology, told Business Insider.  ’ ’   Kelly Page, Takeda’’s vice president of strategic planning in   oncology, said this isn’’t all too different from the speed bumps   the first immunotherapies (namely the checkpoint inhibitors)   experienced when they first hit the field. ”They were   technologies before their time,” she said. ’ ’   Researchers had a hard time monitoring how the immune system   reacted with those therapies for a while before figuring out   how to do it more safely.  ’ ’   ”I think some of the other modalities, whether it be   or   whatever, are going to go through that same thing,” Page said.   ”There’’s this struggle every time you bring in a new modality,   but once you figure it out, it’’s fantastic.” ’ ’Cancer immunotherapy, or treatments that use. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’