’  ’ ”   President Donald Trump’s shocking decision to  on Tuesday set off one of the most tumultuous weeks in   his young administration. Critics on both sides of the aisle   blasted the president for firing the man who was overseeing an   investigation into him and his associates for possible collusion   with Russia during the 2016 presidential election. ” ”   But Trump’s most dedicated supporters see things a little   differently. To them, Trump’s decision to fire Comey was a   welcome sign of a     —   a theory peddled by those on   the   which asserts that there is a shadow network of   government officials, politicians, and intelligence agents who   are covertly working to undermine Trump’s agenda and ultimately   overthrow him. ” ”   Though there is no credible evidence of an American deep state,   talks of it have been widespread on   news outlets like   InfoWars and Breitbart. They’ve also found a home among notable   pundits including  and Rep. Steve   King of Iowa. ” ’   As evidence of their theory, supporters of the idea of an   American deep state often point to leaks of classified   information, saying that members of the intelligence community   are working    with the ”mainstream media” in order to   take Trump down and install a new leader. ’ ”   As a result, intelligence agencies like the CIA, NSA, and FBI are   often the targets of Trump supporters’ ire. To them, Comey’s   firing represented not a controversial decision that drew   comparisons to Nixon’s Saturday Night Massacre, but a    against a growing deep state. ” ’  ’ ”   This reaction from Trump’s most stalwart supporters isn’t all   that surprising, according to Glenn Carle, a former CIA     officer and   expert. ” ’   ”It’’s likely Trump supporters who believe in an American deep   state will view Comey’’s firing as the president pushing back at   an intelligence community working to undermine him,” Carle told   Business Insider. ’ ’   ”In their mind, they don’’t see [Comey’’s] firing as the president,   yet again, undermining the independence of democratic   institutions,” Carle added. ”They see it as the opposite  —   as   Trump fighting back against these supposedly secret efforts to   undermine him.” ’ ’   InfoWars founder Alex Jones said as much . ’ ’   ”Comey was compromised and had been compromised for a long time,”   Jones told his . ”And was being clearly manipulated by deep state   sources to try to exert pressure onto the White House to have the   White House carry out the deep state’’s political aims with this   whole fake Russia narrative, that if they didn’t basically do   what John McCain and others wanted, they would continue on with   hearings and try to impeach the president.” ’ ’   ”Deep State Pushes Coup Against Trump Over Comey Firing,” blared   another    in the wake of Comey’’s ouster. The article claimed that the ”deep   state” was using Comey’’s firing as the ”” to overthrow Trump. ’ ’   ”This is the first step in President Trump draining the deep   state swamp,” Hannity said in his opening monologue on Tuesday   night, just hours after Trump fired Comey. ”James Comey, the   former FBI director, is a national embarrassment. Frankly, he’s   very lucky President Trump kept him around this long.” ’ ’   The theory enjoyed widespread among Trump’’s   base.   ”Firing Comey was a brave decision, a deep blow to the deep   state,” one person commented on a .   That line of thought also picked up steam on Twitter: ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tComey was leader of FBI whats the saying, cut of  the head of a snake & not the body. That’s what Trump did 2 Deep State, Huge win 4 us’t’t” ” ’t’t’tTrump firing Comey is white pilling simply for the fact that he’s finally making moves against those in the Deep State. ’t’t” ’  Comey was feeling like an untouchable, Trump showed him who was the boss. The deep state are in fright’t’t’ ’  Comey is an asset of Deep State. Trump would have to expend too much political capital to remove him. ’t’t’ ”   Comey’s firing also set off a fresh round of intelligence being   leaked to the press. If anything, that will likely only cement   Trump supporters’ belief that the FBI director’s ouster catalyzed   a deep state reaction to the president’s decision. ” ’   While the deep state conspiracy was once relegated to the fringe,   it . But experts caution   against using the phrase to describe the rift between the Trump   administration and intelligence agencies, largely because it   typically characterizes broken democracies. ’ ’   ”’’Deep state’’ I would never use,” Michael Hayden, the former CIA   director who served under Presidents Obama and George W. Bush,   told MSNBC in March. ”That’’s a phrase we’ve used for Turkey and   other countries like that, but not the American republic.” ’ ”   The deep state, as it exists in Turkey and Egypt for example, has   two defining characteristics, Aykan Erdemir, a senior fellow at   the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, told Business Insider.   First, it involves cooperation across multiple government   agencies, like intelligence officials, military officials, and   often executive branch officials. Second, the execution of the   deep state’s agenda often results in bloody outcomes. ” ’   ”You see dramatic results like assassinations, mass killings,   pogroms, bombings,” Erdemir said. ”It’’s not about tension between   the executive and the bureaucracy; it’’s not about a failure to   work together.” ’ ’   James Clapper, the former director of national intelligence, said   in a Sunday morning interview that he thought US intelligence   agencies were ”under assault,” including from the president   himself. ’ ’   ”The founding fathers, in their genius, created a system of three     branches of government and a   system of checks   and balances,”  ”I   feel as though that is under assault and is eroding.” ’ ”President Donald Trump’s shocking decision to. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’