’  ’ ’   SEOUL (Reuters)   North Korea said on Monday it had successfully   conducted a newly developed    range missile test on   Sunday, supervised by leader Kim Jong Un and aimed at verifying   the capability to carry a ”large scale heavy nuclear warhead.” ’ ’   Kim accused the United States of ”browbeating” countries that   ”have no nukes” and warned Washington not to misjudge the reality   that its mainland is in the North’’s ”sighting range for strike,”   the North’’s official KCNA news agency reported. ’ ’   The North fired a ballistic missile that landed in the sea near   Russia on Sunday in a launch that Washington called a message to   South Korea, days after its new president took office pledging to   engage Pyongyang in dialogue. ’ ’   The missile was launched at the highest angle so as not to affect   the security of neighboring countries and flew 787 kilometers   (490 miles) reaching an altitude of 2, 111. 5 kilometers (1, 312   miles) KCNA said. ’ ’   Experts said the altitude reached by the missile tested on Sunday   meant it was launched at a high trajectory, which would limit the   lateral distance it traveled. But if it was fired at a standard   trajectory, it would have a range of at least 4, 000 km (2, 500   miles) experts said. ’ ’’ ’   ”The   aimed at verifying the tactical and technological   specifications of the newly developed ballistic rocket capable of   carrying a   heavy nuclear warhead,” KCNA said. ’ ’   ”If the U. S. awkwardly attempts to provoke the DPRK, it will not   escape from the biggest disaster in the history, Kim said,   strongly warning the U. S. should not to disregard or misjudge the   reality that its mainland and Pacific operation region are in the   DPRK’’s sighting range for strike and that it has all powerful   means for retaliatory strike,” KCNA said. ’ ”   DPRK is short for North Korea’s formal name, the Democratic   People’s Republic of Korea. ” ’   North Korea is believed to be developing an intercontinental   ballistic missile (ICBM) capable of carrying a nuclear warhead   and reaching the mainland United States. ’ ’   The U. S. military’’s Pacific Command said the type of missile that   was fired was ”not consistent with an intercontinental ballistic   missile”. ’ ”   The United Nations Security Council is due to meet on Tuesday to   discuss North Korea’s latest missile launch, diplomats said on   Sunday, which was requested by the United States and allies South   Korea and Japan. ” ’   U. S. Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley called the   launch a message by Pyongyang to South Korea after the election   of President Moon   who took office on Wednesday. ’ ’   ”You first have to get into Kim Jong Un’’s head    which is, he’’s   in a state of paranoia, he’’s incredibly concerned about anything   and everything around him,” Haley told ABC’’s ”This Week” program,   referring to North Korea’’s leader. ’ ”   The report on the missile’s flight was largely consistent with   South Korean and Japanese assessments on Sunday that it flew 700   km (435 miles) and reached an altitude of more than 2, 000 km   (1, 243 miles) which is further and higher than an     missile tested in February from the same   region, northwest of Pyongyang. ” ’   ”North Korea’’s latest successful missile test represents a level   of performance never before seen from a North Korean missile,”     monitoring project, 38 North, said in an   analysis issued on Sunday. ’ ’   ”It appears to have not only demonstrated an     ballistic missile (IRBM) that might enable them to reliably   strike the U. S. base at Guam, but more importantly, may represent   a substantial advance to developing an intercontinental ballistic   missile (ICBM),” it said. ’ ’   (Editing by Sandra Maler) ’ ’SEOUL (Reuters)   North Korea said on Monday it. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’