A Queens woman admitted pushing another woman to her death in front of a subway train in Times Square, prosecutors said in court on Tuesday, but the woman denied that she had confessed. At her arraignment in Criminal Court in Manhattan, the woman, Melanie   30, pleaded not guilty to a   murder charge. The police said Ms.   pushed Connie Watton, 49, of Queens, in front of a southbound No. 1 train at the busy Times   Street station around 1:20 p. m. on Monday. Prosecutors said in a statement read by Justice Gerald Lebovits of State Supreme Court that two witnesses saw Ms.   push Ms. Watton. “This is a strong case with multiple eyewitnesses, and the defendant has admitted to the crime,” Matthew Thiman, an assistant district attorney, said in court. Ms.   standing next to her lawyer, seemed surprised. “What?” she said. “I did not admit to nothing. ” Her lawyer, Mathew Mari, said his client maintained her innocence. “She was adamant that she did not confess,” he said, “and she is not guilty. ” The police described Ms.   as emotionally disturbed, but Mr. Mari said he was unaware of her medical history and had not spoken to any of her relatives. “She told me that she had some kind of medical history, but she wouldn’t go into it,” Mr. Mari said. He said that he spent about 15 minutes with Ms.   before her appearance on Tuesday, and that she had been calm but not very talkative. “She didn’t have very much to say other than, quote, she is not guilty,” he said. “And she didn’t want to discuss anything else. ” Ms.   has no criminal convictions and has lived at the same address in Queens for three years, he said. She worked as a home aide until about two or three weeks ago, he said, but did not say why she was no longer employed. Justice Lebovits, filling in at the lower court on Election Day, granted the district attorney’s request that Ms.   be held without bail. He set her next appearance for Thursday. No relatives of Ms. Watton or Ms.   were in court. At Ms. Watton’s apartment building in Astoria, Queens, a friend of the family said her husband, Robert, did not want to talk.