’  ’ ”   On Wednesday evening, news broke that deputy attorney general Rod   Rosenstein had  in charge of investigating the Trump campaign’s   potential ties to Russian officials and collusion with Russia   during the 2016 election. ” ”   Mueller’s appointment was hailed by Democrats and Republicans   alike, as well as those in the   community. ” ’   ”Mueller is experienced, knowledgeable, capable,” former   assistant attorney general for national security David Kris   .   ”He is utterly incorruptible. He cannot be intimidated,” Kris   said, adding that Mueller is ”ramrod straight in his integrity.”   Kris and Mueller worked closely together. ’ ’   ”Rod Rosenstein has taken serious lumps this week (everyone one   of them deserved). Can’’t erase history but tonight he deserves   our thanks,”  Susan   Hennessey, a   fellow at the Brookings   Institution and Lawfare contributor, when it emerged that Mueller   had been appointed special prosecutor. ’ ”   Mueller rose to public prominence along with former FBI director   James Comey in 2004, when he and Comey threatened to resign if   the Bush administration revived the National Security Agency’s   warrantless surveillance program without making changes to it. At   the time, Mueller was FBI director and Comey was the deputy   attorney general. The White House eventually backed off. ” ”   During his time at the FBI, Mueller, who was sworn in as director   shortly before the Sep. 11 terrorist attacks, largely presided   over the bureau’s shift to counterterrorism operations that now   dominate a significant portion of its caseload.  ” ’   Most recently, Mueller was a partner at the law firm WilmerHale,   which represents a number of Trump associates including first   daughter Ivanka trump,    Jared Kushner, and former Trump   campaign manager Paul Manafort. Upon being appointed as special   prosecutor in the Russia probe, Mueller resigned from his   position at the firm immediately in order to avoid any conflicts   of interest.  ’ ’  ’ ’   Along with their   2004 showdown with the Bush   administration over the NSA’’s program,  that Mueller and Comey also share another trait   that may prove useful in the Russia probe: both men have   ”significant prosecutorial experience and have run a major   investigative force.” ’ ”   Comey was the US attorney for the Southern District of New York   before eventually becoming FBI director. Mueller was US attorney   for the Northern District of California and assistant US attorney   in the District of Massachusetts before becoming FBI director. He   also used to spearhead the Department of Justice’s Criminal   Division. ” ’  ’ ’   Intelligence officials say that Mueller, like Comey, is   known for his independence, and that makes him a great choice for   special prosecutor. He also has not been afraid to push back   against the White House in the past, as he did in 2004. ’ ’   ”He doesn’t sway under political pressure,”Thomas J. Pickard, who   served as deputy director of the FBI under Mueller, . Mueller has served under Democratic and Republican   presidents  —   he helmed the FBI under both of Bush’’s terms and   Obama’’s first. ”For 12 years, he kept the FBI out of politics,”   Pickard said. ’ ”   Mueller’s appointment as special prosecutor in the Russia   investigation will also ensure that it proceeds smoothly, in   contrast to the way it’s currently being handled in Congress,   experts say.  ” ’   ”I have enormous respect for Bob. We worked together when I was   at the NSA,” Robert Deitz, a former top counsel for the NSA and   CIA who worked with Mueller when he headed the FBI, told Business   Insider. ’ ’   ”The Russia investigation will continue apace with no loss of   momentum,” Deitz said. And if more evidence of Trump’’s or   his associates’’ ties to Russia emerges, Mueller’’s appointment   means ”the president may have gone from the frying pan into the   fire.” ’ ”   Mueller’s independence also indicates that he’d likely be just as   hard on those who leak classified information as on those who may   have broken the law and colluded with a foreign power. ” ’   ”I have no doubt that he will be    —   including going   hammer and tong after anyone who is leaking investigative or   classified information, ”George J. Terwilliger III, who worked   with Mueller when they were assistant US attorneys, told The   Post. ’ ”   The   narrative has picked up steam over the last   week, as the White House became embroiled in a number of   controversies that raised questions about the president’s and his   associates’ ties to Russian officials. Last Tuesday, the   president abruptly fired Comey, who was spearheading the FBI’s   investigation into the Trump campaign’s contacts with Russia and   any attempts to collude with the foreign power during the 2016   election. The next day, Trump hosted Russian Foreign Minister   Sergey Lavrov and Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak in the Oval   Office at the request of Russian President Vladimir Putin.   American reporters were not allowed into the room, but Russian   reporters were. ” ’   Over the next few days, the president admitted that ”this Russia   thing” was a factor in his decision to fire Comey, telling NBC’’s   Lester Holt that Comey was a ”showboat” and a ”grandstander.” On   Friday, Trump    Comey with ”tapes” of their conversations if Comey leaked   sensitive information to the press. ’ ’  ’ ’   On Monday, The Washington Post, citing officials familiar with   the matter,  that the   president disclosed   information to Lavrov and   Kislyak during their Oval Office meeting. The New York Times   later  that the   intelligence in question had come from Israel, a key US ally who   is also an adversary of Iran, a key Russian ally. ’ ’   The next day, The New York Times broke news of a  about a February meeting he had with Trump in the   Oval Office. According to the memo, Trump asked Comey to drop the   FBI investigation into former national security adviser Michael   Flynn. ’ ’   ”I hope you can see your way clear to letting this go, to letting   Flynn go,” Trump told Comey, according to the memo. ”He is a good   guy. I hope you can let this go.” The meeting took place one day   after Flynn was forced to resign from his position after it   emerged that he had lied about contacts he had with Kislyak. ’ ’   The White House pushed back on the memo. ”[T]he President has   never asked Mr. Comey or anyone else to end any investigation,   including any investigation involving General Flynn,” said a   statement released by an unnamed administration official. ”The   President has the utmost respect for our law enforcement   agencies, and all investigations. This is not a truthful or   accurate portrayal of the conversation between the President and   Mr. Comey.” ’ ’   On Wednesday,    that Flynn had informed the Trump transition team that he was   under FBI investigation on Jan. 4. According to The Times, Flynn   told transition team member Don McGahn, who now serves as White   House counsel, about the investigation. ’ ”   The Times’ report seems to contradict the Trump administration’s   claim that it was not aware Flynn was under investigation before   former acting attorney general Sally Yates informed them about it   later in January. The White House did not dismiss Flynn until 18   days after Yates brought her concerns to them and warned that he   may be vulnerable to Russian blackmail. ” ’   The steady drip of new details about the president’’s and his   associates’’ ties to Russia necessitated the need for a special   prosecutor, Glenn Carle, a former CIA     officer, told Business Insider. Carle called Mueller ”solid,”   ”impartial,” and ”professional,” and also added that Mueller’’s   appointment may temporarily stall the Russia investigation. ’ ’   ”Things will slow down because Mueller will be deliberate and   thorough,” Carle said. While he said that the investigation’’s   likely slowed pace may reduce the    tumult that’’s rocked   the White House over the last few days, Carle added that it’’s   likely Trump will try to ”divert attention by having surrogates   attack Mueller’s independence and integrity.” ’ ’   But given Mueller’’s reputation as an apolitical, independent   prosecutor and the precarious position the White House is   currently in, Carle said, ”it will be difficult for him to do so,   and the costs would be high.” ’ ’On Wednesday evening, news broke that deputy. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’