’  ’ ”   Democratic lawmakers and a handful of Republicans are praising   Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein’s decision to appoint   former FBI Director Robert Mueller as special counsel to   investigate any potential ties between President Donald Trump’s   associates and Russia. ” ’   Rosenstein  Wednesday evening, saying he   ” ’ ’     “The appointment of Bob Mueller as special counsel for the     Russia investigation is a good first step to get to the bottom     of the many questions we have about Russian interference in our     election and possible ties to the president. Bob was a fine     U. S. attorney, a great FBI director and there’s no better     person who could be asked to perform this function. He is     respected, he is talented and he has the knowledge and ability     to do the right thing. ”   ’ ’     ”A special counsel is very much needed in this situation and     Deputy Attorney General Rosenstein has done the right thing.     Former Director Mueller is exactly the right kind of individual     for this job. I now have significantly greater confidence that     the investigation will follow the facts wherever they lead.”   ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tGood move. Now let’s get some answers.  ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tWith Sessions and Rosenstein compromised, this was a necessary step forward.  ’ ’     ”Knowing Deputy Attorney General Rosenstein from his tenure in     Baltimore, I think he made a solid choice in Mr. Mueller, and I     commend him for putting our country and justice system first.      I urge Mr. Mueller to follow the facts wherever they may     lead —  with integrity and independence.”   ’ ’     ”I commend the Deapartment of Justice for taking the     appropriate step of appointing a special counsel to investigate     the Russian government’’s efforts to interefere in the 2016     presidential election and any links to the Trump campaign. The     issue of potential coordination between the Trump campaign and     Russian officials is extremely serious and the American     people deserve answers.”   ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tSpecial counsel is the right move. But will Trump, Sessions give Mueller the resources, latitude he needs? If past is prologue, watch out. ’t’t’ ’     ” ’ ’   The move is a big win for  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’     ”Given the events of the past few months and the past few days     in particular, the appointment of Director Mueller as special     counsel is certainly appropriate.  The Deputy Attorney     General’s decision reflects the seriousness of the allegations     against President Trump and his associates —  and the degree to     which the public had lost confidence in the political     leadership of the Trump Administration on this matter. But let     me be clear: the appointment of special counsel does not     relieve Congress of its responsibility to conduct oversight of     the Trump Administration. I am disappointed that Congress     has taken precious few meaningful actions to investigate     President Trump’s decision to fire Director Comey, the     President’s admission that he did so because he did not like     the Russia investigation, and reports that Trump tried to waive     Director Comey off of the investigation altogether.  I     continue to stand with my colleagues on the House Judiciary and     Oversight committees in urging our chairmen to look into these     matters without delay”   ’ ’     ”The appointment of former FBI Director and respected lawyer     Robert Mueller as special counsel for the Russia investigation     is a positive development and will provide some certainty for     the American people that the investigation will proceed fairly     and free of political influence. The Senate Select Committee on     Intelligence will continue its own investigation and to the     extent any deconfliction is required, we will engage with     Director Mueller and our expectation is that he will engage     with the Committee as well.”   ’ ’Democratic lawmakers and a handful of. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’