’  ’ ”   Bridgewater Associates, the world’s largest hedge fund, told   clients that US stocks may drop more than 10% if President Trump   is impeached. ” ’   In a note sent out May 18, Bridgewater’’s Greg Jensen and Jason   Rotenberg set out their thoughts on ”navigating markets during   times of extreme political uncertainty.” Jensen is     investment officer.  ’ ’   A day earlier on May 17,  after a report  ’ ”   Jensen and Rotenberg made clear in the note that they’re not   political experts, and that they’re not predicting an   impeachment, or in fact making any political predictions. The duo   instead cited political prediction markets that put the odds of   Trump leaving office before finishing his term at nearly 50%   and focused on the potential impact of such a move on   markets.  ” ’   ”Wednesday’’s market action was a big   move, but not a   material repricing of likely outcomes,” the note said. ”While the   change in pricing was not big, it was consistent with higher odds   of the administration getting bogged down and higher risks of it   being unable to deal with any potential shocks effectively.” ’ ’’ ’   The note then showed the betas of global asset markets to the   increased odds of that Trump leaves offices in 2017 over the past   few weeks. ”This is necessarily a rough exercise, but it suggests   that most major global asset markets are at least moderately   sensitive to the possibility,” the note said.  ’ ’   ”If impeachment materializes,” Jensen and Rotenberg estimate: ’ ’   The notes Bridgewater sends out to clients are intended to give   them a sense of how senior figures at firm  —   which manages about   $150 billion  —   see the world and are thinking about the markets   on any given day. Prior to the election, for example, Bridgewater   predicted a . In the end, the   reaction was the reverse. ’ ’   Still, the note highlights the extent to which the biggest   investors in the world are trying to get a handle on the   potential impact of a Trump impeachment.  ’ ’   ”How big the market moves turn out to be will likely depend on   large part on how messy the process turns out to be,” the note   said. ’ ’   A spokesman for Bridgewater declined to comment.  ’ ”Bridgewater Associates, the world’s largest. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’