’  ’ ”   The Trump administration is exploring whether it can use an   obscure ethics rule to undermine the special counsel   investigation into ties between President Donald Trump’s campaign   team and Russia, two people familiar with White House thinking   said on Friday. ” ’   Trump has said that Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein’’s   hiring of former FBI Director Robert Mueller as special counsel   to lead the investigation ”hurts our country terribly.” ’ ”   Within hours of Mueller’s appointment on Wednesday, the White   House began reviewing the Code of Federal Regulations, which   restricts newly hired government lawyers from investigating their   prior law firm’s clients for one year after their hiring, the   sources said. ” ’   An executive order signed by Trump in January extended that   period to two years. ’ ”   Mueller’s former law firm, WilmerHale, represents Trump’s      Jared Kushner, who met with a Russian bank executive   in December, and the president’s former campaign manager Paul   Manafort, who is a subject of a federal investigation. ” ’   Legal experts said the ethics rule can be waived by the Justice   Department, which appointed Mueller. He did not represent Kushner   or Manafort directly at his former law firm. ’ ’   If the department did not grant a waiver, Mueller would be barred   from investigating Kushner or Manafort, and this could greatly   diminish the scope of the probe, experts said. ’ ”   The Justice Department is already reviewing Mueller’s background   as well as any potential conflicts of interest, said department   spokeswoman Sarah Isgur Flores. ” ”   Even if the Justice Department granted a waiver, the White House   would consider using the ethics rule to create doubt about   Mueller’s ability to do his job fairly, the sources said.   Administration legal advisers have been asked to determine if   there is a basis for this. ” ’   Under this strategy, the sources said the administration would   raise the issue in press conferences and public statements. ’ ’   Moreover, the White House has not ruled out the possibility of   using the rule to challenge Mueller’s findings in court, should   the investigation lead to prosecution. ’ ’  ’ ’   But the administration is now mainly focused on placing a cloud   over his reputation for independence, according to the sources,   who spoke on the condition of anonymity. ’ ’   Kathleen Clark, a professor of legal ethics at Washington   University School of Law, said the Justice Department can grant a   waiver if concerns about bias are minimal. ’ ’   She said subjects of the investigation could later argue that its   results cannot be trusted, but she believes the argument would   not stand up in court. ’ ”   The White House did not respond to a request for comment on   whether it is reviewing the ethics rule in order to undermine   Mueller’s credibility. ” ”   Mueller’s former colleagues at WilmerHale, James Quarles and   Aaron Zebley, are expected to join his investigation, according   to a spokeswoman for the law firm. Neither Quarles nor Zebley   represented Kushner or Manafort. ” ”   Mueller will now lead the ongoing Federal Bureau of Investigation   probe into Trump’s associates and senior Russian officials. ” ”   Unlike Kenneth Starr, the independent counsel appointed by a     panel to investigate Bill and Hillary Clinton’s real   estate holdings in the 1990s, Mueller depends on the Justice   Department for funding and he reports to Rosenstein, who was   appointed by Trump. ” ’   When he announced Mueller’’s appointment this week, Rosenstein   said Mueller will have ”all appropriate resources to conduct a   thorough and complete investigation.” ’ ’   (Reporting by Julia Edwards Ainsley, additional reporting by Gina   Chon in Washington and Jan Wolfe in New York; Editing by Kevin   Drawbaugh and Cynthia Osterman) ’ ’The Trump administration is exploring whether. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’