’  ’ ”   The day after Donald Trump became president of the United States,   thousands of people in pink hats . They were protesting Trump’s stance on   women’s rights, among other issues. ” ”   But some looked at the sea of pink and saw something else: the   invisible hand of a man they believe is not just funding liberal   protest movements but controlling the world’s wealth and pushing   a global order. ” ”   It’s not true, but the man these conspiracy theorists target is   George Soros, the prominent billionaire hedge fund manager. ” ”   The    has become a Rorschach test. To the left, he’s a   rich guy openly supporting causes many liberals believe in. But   to some on the far right, he’s more sinister and nefarious,   despite a lack of evidence. For two decades, some have seen Soros   as a kind of puppet master secretly controlling the global   economy and politics. ” ”   At times Soros has wielded great power. In the early 1990s, he   bet against the British pound, which  England’s monetary system overnight and earned him more   than a billion dollars. Later in the decade, he took similar   steps during Asian Financial Crisis. Many saw it as capitalizing   off of catastrophes and the Malaysian prime minister even    Soros of purposefully bringing down the value of his   country’s currency by more than 15%. ” ”   From there, he’s become a singular target of unfounded     conspiracy theories, in part because he has so few peers on the   left. ” ’   “What makes the Soros thing interesting is that most of the   conspiracy theories about rich people tend to be made by people   on the left about people on the right,” said Joe Uscinski, a     professor at the University of Miami. ’ ”   Soros, who is worth $25 billion, has been at the center of   conspiracy theories since he first rose to the top echelons of   hedge fund managers in . But he really attracted attention in 2004, when he    to groups that sought to block President George W.   Bush’s reelection bid. His entry into politics, coupled with   Soros’ choice to repeatedly  set off a   string of   conspiracy theories alleging that Soros tried to influence   politics with nefarious intent. ” ’   “George Soros first found himself in the crosshairs of the   conservative propaganda machine when he publicly expressed   opposition to the march to war in Iraq,” said Michael Vachon, a   spokesman for Soros Fund Management. Since then, Soros has   continued to  to organizations that support   democratic reform in the US and throughout the world. Some saw   that as a sign of scheming secretive plots. ’ ’     sites like Breitbart and The Washington Times have   often claimed that Soros paid protesters at the  and the . In reality, Soros has been giving money to   progressive groups since long before the Trump’s election. In   2017, some of them decided to participate in protests. ’ ’   Theories can be   like accusations that Soros is in   . Then there are simpler accusations that are rooted   in truth: that Soros uses his power and money to influence   politics. His open support for  and  is well known. ’ ’   Still, people such as Daniel Greenfield believe Soros goes   further. Greenfield is a regular writer for   outlets. He   believes Soros is trying to take over the world to make it more   liberal. ’ ’   ”Government should be decided by the people rather than by   powerful interests who subvert democracy,” Greenfield told   Business Insider. He wrote an article saying that Soros   ”destroyed the Democratic party.” ’ ’   ”I don’’t like his governments and their agendas,” Greenfield   said. ’ ”   Soros’ choice to put his wealth toward political causes that he   believes in is not particularly different from the billions of   dollars that   billionaires like Charles and David Koch   have been  to Republican   causes for years, said Miami University professor Timothy Melley.   The difference is that far more   Americans are   politically conservative. ” ’   ”It’s a projection of   billionaire behavior onto a   prominent   billionaire,” said Melley, who wrote ”Empire   of Conspiracy: The Culture of Paranoia in Postwar America.” ’ ”   It’s true Soros has not been quiet in his  of Republicans like Trump. ” ’   Many European countries with   governments have also   seen a strong   push in recent years. The president of   Soros’’ native Hungary has  that would try to close a progressive university   the billionaire opened in Budapest and called Soros ”an enemy of   the euro” after the EU criticized the decision. ’ ’   “George is the enemy of choice of despots,” said Vachon. ’ ”   While many   theories accuse him of schemes and secrecy,   Soros’ Open Society Foundation is fairly vocal in its commitment   to social justice. The foundation’s site    that it has spent more than $1. 6 billion on democratic   development in Eastern Europe. As a child, Soros fled persecution   from the Nazis and has been  in bringing capitalism to countries within the   former Soviet bloc. ” ’   The foundation has also spent more than $1. 5 billion on   democratic reform  —   including immigration, criminal justice, and   democratic governance  —   within the US. ’ ’   ”Like any other liberal, George Soros is hoping that Trump will   be out of power,” said Melley, adding that Soros’’ spending and   political power is what turns him into a threat. ”It doesn’t   exactly constitute a secret plot.” ’ ’   What Soros actually did is in line with the political activities   of prominent conservative donors. Conservative hedge fund   billionaire Robert Mercer, for instance, has  to a   Make America Number   One super PAC and sponsored   research suggesting an   outsider candidate was likely to win in November 2016. ’ ’  ’ ’   Mark Fenster, a law professor at the University of Florida and   author of ”Conspiracy Theories: Secrecy and Power in American   Culture,” said that many of the claims waged against Soros could   have an   slant similar to false claims that the   Rothschild family secretly controls all of the world’’s wealth.   Fenster said wealth is often used to justify ”fearing and hating   the Jews” and, as a result, is also used to disguise     in some conspiracy theorists. ’ ’   In the past, Breitbart  calling Soros ”an octopus.” The Nazis    octopus imagery to refer to Jews controlling the world   in the 1930s and 1940s. Indeed, Glenn Beck, the former Fox News   host and founder of The Blaze, once  Soros ”a ”puppet master” who holds the strings of the   world in his hands. ’ ’   “Some of what’s going on right now is not really a conspiracy   theory in the sense of an organic, populist view that kind of   rises up from the masses,” said Melley. ”It seems to be a   relatively deliberate attempt to . .. discredit.” ’ ’  ’ ’   The idea that Soros is secretly behind all the world’’s ills   remains persistently in the mouths of   commentators  —     in 2007, Fox News host Bill O’’Reilly spent nearly 10 minutes      Soros as ”   dangerous” and ”an extremist who wants   open borders, a   foreign policy, legalized drugs,   euthanasia, and on and on.” ’ ’   “If a conspiracy theory can explain big things and offer a   villain that people already despise then it’s going to be   popular,” said Uscinski, adding that someone who has money and   significant political influence will often be seen as a threat   for those with opposing views. ’ ’   Another frequent source of   coverage, the     site Infowars ran  titled ”George Soros Is About To Overthrow The   US” in 2016. ’ ’   But as pointed out by Melley, ”overthrowing the US” most often   boils down to little other than openly criticizing     government and supporting progressive, democratic causes. After   all, the hedge fund billionaire is not afraid to  so he’’s unlikely to make   any new friends on the right. ’ ’The day after Donald Trump became president of. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’