’  ’ ’   On May 4, President Donald Trump was celebrating with House   Republicans in the Rose Garden. ’ ’   House Speaker Paul Ryan just successfully pushed the American   Health Care Act the chamber. And though the bill still   needed to be handled by the Senate, Trump and House Republicans   took a victory lap of sorts after the much maligned legislation   finally made it through its brutally tough initial battle. ’ ’   ”How am I doing? Am I doing OK? I’m president. Hey, I’m   president. Can you believe it? Right?” he said. ’ ’   That was 16 days ago. ’ ”     to Saturday. Nearly the entire stretch since   has been consumed by two of the most tumultuous weeks in   presidential history. Bombshell story after bombshell story.   Trump’s series of controversial decisions. A   point   in the investigation into whether members of the Trump campaign   colluded with Russian officials during swing the 2016   election. ” ’   Democrats began speaking more freely about impeachment, while the   protective Republican wall surrounding Trump . ’ ’   As leaks became geysers, the onslaught showed no signs of slowing   down. ’ ’   ”I’’m sort of literally at a loss of words,” Alex Conant,   communications director for Sen. Marco Rubio’’s 2016 presidential   campaign, told Business Insider. ”I’’ve never seen so much bad   news hit a White House at once.” ’ ’   The highly anticipated event at the start of last week featured   former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper and former   acting Attorney General Sally Yates  that was investigating Russian   interference in the 2016 presidential election. ’ ’   In her testimony, Yates explained her warning to the White   House about Michael Flynn, saying she was concerned the former   national security adviser could have been subject to Russian   blackmail as a result of misleading Vice President Mike Pence   about the nature of his communications with Russian Ambassador   Sergey Kislyak. ’ ”   Afterward,  on Twitter. On Clapper, Trump zeroed in on   a comment he made that when he retired prior to Trump’s   inauguration in January, he knew of no evidence of any collusion   between the Trump campaign and Russian officials. ” ’   ”Director Clapper reiterated what everybody, including the fake   media already knows  —   there is ’’no evidence’’ of collusion     Russia and Trump.” ’ ’   He then wrote that Yates ”made the fake media extremely unhappy   today     she said nothing but old news.” ’ ’   Trump    aimed at Clapper and, for a brief time, made it a part of his   banner image on Twitter. ’ ’   After 5 p. m. Trump dropped a massive bombshell no one was   expecting: . ’ ”   Comey announced at a hearing in March that the FBI was   investigating whether there was any collusion between members of   the Trump campaign and Russian officials to swing the 2016   presidential election. But the initial rationale for firing the   FBI director was his handling of the investigation into   Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton’s use of a   private email server while she was secretary of state. ” ’ Trump said he accepted the recommendations of Attorney   General Jeff Sessions and Rosenstein. But he also wrote that ”I   greatly appreciate you informing me,  that I am not under investigation.” ’ ” it was   reported that Trump was planning Comey’s firing for days. ” ’   Inside the White House, there was a scramble to defend the   decision. White House counselor Kellyanne Conway told CNN’’s   Anderson Cooper that  ”not a  .” White House deputy press secretary   Sarah Huckabee Sanders  it was ”time to move on” from the Russia   investigations. ’ ’   ”It’’s been going on for nearly a year,” Sanders said. ”Frankly,   it’’s kind of getting absurd.” ’ ’  ’ ’   In his first remarks    Trump decided to blast Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer on   Twitter. Schumer earlier said that Trump’’s move to fire Comey was   ”a big mistake.” ’ ’   Trump started his day by defending his firing of . ’ ’   ”The Democrats have said some of the worst things about James   Comey, including the fact that he should be fired, but now they   play so sad!” . ’ ”   Then came a curious meeting:  in the Oval Office with Russian Foreign   Minister Sergey Lavrov and Kislyak, the ambassador. Kislyak’s   presence in the meeting wasn’t known until a Russian photographer   posted his shots from the event, sparking a controversy over the   secrecy of the diplomatic discussion. ” ’   Following that meeting, Trump met with Henry Kissinger, the   former secretary of state and national security adviser. While   seated next to Kissinger,  that Comey ”was not doing a good job.” ’ ”Still, top Trump   surrogates  —     —     insisted that Trump acted after his top Department of Justice   officials recommended he fire Comey, and that it had nothing to   do with the FBI’s Russia investigation. ” ’   A  at the time that firing Comey was a bad move   for Trump. ’ ’   ”It only causes Democrats to smell a conspiracy around everything   Russian  —   while giving GOPers pause,” the lobbyist told Business   Insider. In the daily press briefing, Sanders was grilled over   Comey’’s firing. At one point, she said the ousted FBI director   committed ”atrocities” while he led the bureau. ’ ’   Later,  made the unfounded claim that former President   Barack Obama had wiretapped Trump Tower prior to Trump’’s   inauguration, Comey told close associated that the president’’s   behavior was ”outside the realm of normal” and ”crazy.” ’ ’   The   leaks were only beginning. ’ ’   The . ’ ”   In the first clips of an interview between Trump and NBC News’   Lester Holt, Trump trampled on the White House narrative that he   fired Comey on the recommendations of Rosenstein and Sessions. ” ’   Instead, he said he would’’ve done it ”regardless” of whether the   DOJ recommended he do so. Trump proceeded to call Comey a   ”showboat” and a ”grandstander.” ’ ’   And Holt asked Trump, ”Did you ask, ’’Am I under investigation? ’’” ’ ’   ”I actually asked him, yes,” Trump responded. ”I said, ’’If it’’s   possible, will you let me know, am I under investigation? ’’ He   said, ’’You are not under investigation. ’’” ’ ” he decided to fire Comey, he referenced the Russia   investigation, something that flew completely in the face of the   White House’s narrative. ” ’   ”When I decided to just do it, I said to myself  —   I said, you   know, this Russia thing with Trump and Russia is a     story,” he said. ’ ”   In the daily briefing, Sanders took another barrage of heated   questions related to Comey’s firing after Trump contradicted what   she was saying hours earlier. ” ’  ’ ”   She said Comey’s firing would speed up the Russia investigation. ” ’   ”There are multiple people that are a part of this and it’’s not   just the FBI,” .   ”You’’ve got the House committee, the Senate committee and, look,   again, the point is we want this to come to its conclusion, we   want this to come to conclusion with integrity, and we think that   we’’ve actually, by removing Director Comey, taken steps to make   that happen.” ’ ’   Then came .   The Times reported that Comey, during a January dinner, was asked   by Trump whether he would pledge loyalty to the president. ’ ’   He declined to do so at least twice during the dinner, the report   said. ’ ’   Trump began his day with a blistering tweetstorm. ’ ”   First,  surrogates can’t speak for him completely accurately, and   tossed the idea of canceling future press briefings as a result. ” ’   Minutes later,    to stay silent and suggested he had recordings of his   conversation with the FBI director. ’ ’   ”James Comey better hope that there are no ’’tapes’’ of our   conversations before he starts leaking to the press!” . ’ ’ Spicer was bombarded with questions about whether   the president was recording Comey or others who he had   conversations with in the White House. ’ ’   It led to an interesting exchange with Reuters White House   correspondent Jeff Mason: ’ ’  ’ ’   The Washington Post reported that Trump shared highly classified   intelligence with Lavrov and Kislyak in the secretive Oval Office   meeting. That intelligence that was so under wraps that American   allies were not aware of the information, . ’ ”   Current and former anonymous US officials said Trump’s   sharing of the intelligence with the Russians jeopardized a key   source of information about the Islamic State terror group, as   the source had not given the US permission to share the   intelligence with Russia. ” ’   The blowback was sharp. ’ ’   Republican Sen. Bob Corker of Tennessee, chair of the Senate   Foreign Relations Committee  vice president,  that   the administration ”has got to do something soon to bring itself   under control and in order. It’’s got to happen.” ’ ’   ”Obviously they’’re in a downward spiral right now and they’’ve got   to figure out a way to come to grips with all that’’s happening,”   he added. ’ ’   Alan Dershowitz,  emeritus at Harvard Law School, said on CNN   that ”this is the most serious charge ever made against a sitting   president. Let’’s not minimize it.” ’ ’   Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, national security adviser H. R.   McMaster, and deputy national security adviser Dina Powell all   disputed the validity of the story. But they did not call out   specific points in the story as untrue. ’ ”   Trump  his White House officials and essentially   confirming The Post’s story. ” ’   ”As President I wanted to share with Russia (at an openly   scheduled W. H. meeting) which I have the absolute right to do,   facts pertaining to terrorism and airline flight safety,”   .  ’ ’ McMaster said Trump ”wasn’’t even aware”   of the source of the classified information. ’ ’   ”All of you are familiar with the threat from ISIS,” McMaster   said on Tuesday. ”All of you are very familiar with the territory   it controls. If you were to say, ’’Hey, from where do you think a   threat might come, from territory that ISIS controls,’’ you would   probably be able to name a few cities.” ’ ’ it   was reported that Israel was the source of the highly classified   information. ’ ’  ’ ’   Then came the evening bombshell. ’ ’ wrote a memo immediately after a meeting with Trump on   February 14  —   a day after Flynn resigned as national security   adviser  —   that stated Trump suggested Comey should ”let go” of   the FBI investigation into Flynn. The Times reported that Comey   kept a paper trail on Trump to document ”what he perceived as the   president’s improper efforts to influence an ongoing   investigation.” ’ ’   ”I hope you can see your way clear to letting this go, to letting   Flynn go,” Trump told Comey, according to the memo. ’ ” that the request, paired with the loyalty pledge and   his firing of Comey, amounted to a strong obstruction of justice   case. Obstruction of justice was the charge that led to former   President Richard Nixon’s resignation. ” ’   ”We’’ve seen this movie before,” .   John  at a dinner for the International Republican   Institute. ”It’’s reaching Watergate size and scale. This is not   good for the country.” ’ ’   By Wednesday, the  showed signs of cracking while  around the possibility of impeachment proceedings. ’ ’   In a  in Connecticut, Trump said he’’s been   treated more unfairly than any politician ”in history.” ’ ’   ”Look at the way I’’ve been treated lately,” he said. ”Especially   by the media. No politician in history  —   and I say this with   great surety  —   has been treated worse or more unfairly. You can’’t   let them get you down. You can’’t let the critics and the   naysayers get in the way of your dreams. I guess that’’s why,   thank you, I guess that’’s why we won.” ’ ’   By late afternoon came : Rosenstein appointed a special counsel  —   former   FBI Director Robert Mueller  —   to oversee the Russia   investigations. ’ ’ Wednesday that Flynn told the Trump transition   team that he was under federal investigation prior to Trump   taking office for his paid lobbying for Turkey. Flynn was still   brought on as national security adviser. ’ ”   Trump was initially measured in response to the news of Mueller’s   appointment. But he spent his early morning going off on . ” ’   ”With all of the illegal acts that took place in the Clinton   campaign & Obama Administration, there was never a special   counsel appointed!”    tweeted. ’ ’   ”This is the single greatest witch hunt of a politician in   American history!” . ’ ’  ’ ’   In a  to Europe and the Middle   East, Trump called the appointment of a special prosecutor ”a   very, very negative thing.” ’ ’   ”I believe it hurts our country terribly, because it shows we’’re   a divided,     country,” Trump . ”And we have very   important things to be doing right now, whether it’’s trade deals,   whether it’’s military, whether it’’s stopping nuclear  —   all of the   things that we discussed today. And I think this shows a very   divided country.” ’ ’   During a joint press conference with Colombian President Juan   Manuel Santos, Trump denied the validity of the claim made in the   Comey memo. ’ ’ to stop any investigation into Flynn, Trump said, ”No.   No. Next question.” ’ ’   A pair of huge stories were published Friday. ’ ’ Trump told Lavrov and Kislyak in that already     Oval Office meeting that his firing of Comey, whom   he called a ”nut job,” had taken ”great pressure” off him. ’ ’   An American official read the comments, from a White House   document summarizing the meeting with the Russian diplomats, to   the Times. Spicer did not dispute the comments. ’ ’  ’ ’   the Post reported that a senior White House official close to   Trump was now considered a ”significant person of interest” in   the FBI’’s investigation. ’ ’   that White House attorneys were researching impeachment   procedures, although officials consider that to be a ”distant”   and ”unlikely” possibility. ’ ”   Trump departed the US Friday to begin his lengthy first foreign   trip as president. Back home, it doesn’t appear the stampede of   news stories is going to stop soon. ” ’   The White House’’s ”inability to get ahead of events is   concerning,” Conant said. ”I mean, they need to get all the bad   information out yesterday. But the constant drip, drip, drip of   bad news is troubling. Because it makes it so much harder to move   on his agenda, which is what I care about as a Republican.” ’ ’   He added that ”in the short term,” it will ”probably not” be easy   for the administration to move past the     developments. ’ ’   ”Because we’’re in a   feeding frenzy,” he said.   ”However, I think that if they can put the special prosecutor to   the side and stop making news on the Russia story and then have a   successful trip overseas next week, I think he can come back in   10 days and hopefully be able to talk about something other than   Russia.” ’ ’   Matt Mackowiak, a GOP strategist and CEO of the Potomac Strategy   Group, told Business Insider that ”it’’s fair to say” the ”last 10   days have been pretty bad.” ’ ’   ”I think Republicans were in something of a panic for much of   that time because it kept getting worse, and no one could really   see how to stabilize the situation,” he said. ”Now, as it turns   out, Rosenstein’’s decision to appoint a universally respected   special counsel ended up being not only a smart decision but one   that ended up being welcomed by Republicans.” ’ ’   ”It now gives them opportunity to decline comment on the   investigation going forward,” he continued. ”It gives them   someone that they really trust and believe will do the right   thing in terms of the facts. And it probably, I would think,   would buy Trump and the Trump White House some time to deal with   not only the legal challenges they’’re facing, but also to start   restarting their legislative agenda.” ’ ’On May 4, President Donald Trump was. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’