SCOTTSDALE, Ariz.  —   During the next few days, the Mets and General Manager Sandy Alderson will have to weigh whether Yoenis Cespedes, one of the team’s best players over the past year and a half, gives them the best chance of winning. “From a fan standpoint, from a team standpoint, from a variety of different standpoints, possibly,” Alderson said on Monday, the first day of the annual general managers’ meetings. “But there are always alternatives. ” On Monday, the Mets made the first strategic move in keeping two of their best hitters from last season: They extended to Cespedes and second baseman Neil Walker   $17. 2 million qualifying offers ahead of an evening deadline. Cespedes, a top free agent this winter, and Walker were among 10 players who received qualifying offers for 2017. The list also included Justin Turner of the Los Angeles Dodgers, Ian Desmond of the Texas Rangers and Edwin Encarnacion and Jose Bautista of the Toronto Blue Jays. The players have a week to either accept the offers or reject them and test free agency. Although Major League Baseball and the players’ union have been negotiating a new   agreement because the current one expires next month, the system of qualifying offers was expected to be retained in some form. Under the current system, if a player rejects a qualifying offer and signs elsewhere, his former team receives a draft pick from his new one. Alderson said the Mets were keen on keeping Cespedes and Walker for next season. On Saturday, Cespedes exercised the   clause in the contract he signed with the Mets last   forfeiting $47. 5 million and two years on his deal in the hope that he could land a more lucrative payday. Cespedes, 31, hit . 280 in 2016, with 31 home runs, 86 R. B. I. and an . 884   plus slugging percentage, so he may be able to earn more he was expected to reject the qualifying offer. He was a key force for the Mets not only because he provided power and experience but also because he batted   in a lineup dominated by  . Alderson has been reluctant to hand out large   contracts to free agents, and the Mets have had financial problems during his tenure. But Alderson said the Mets had already had one “very preliminary” conversation with Cespedes’s agent about keeping him in New York. “I wouldn’t have indicated our interest in having him back if we didn’t have the resources to make that possible,” Alderson said. Alderson said Cespedes’s agent had indicated a desire to strike a deal with a team sooner rather than later, and the Mets hoped to resolve the situation one way or the other within the next month. “There are some additional moving pieces that we have to consider, and I’m sure there is the market he has to consider,” Alderson said. With Walker, on the other hand, the Mets know he could accept the qualifying offer. Walker, 31, hit . 282, with 23 home runs and an . 823 O. P. S. but he had   surgery to repair a herniated disk in his back in September. Walker, however, would require a smaller financial commitment than Cespedes. The Mets felt comfortable about Walker’s back when they made the qualifying offer, which players have traditionally rejected. “We may not have made the offer if we weren’t interested in having Neil on a   basis,” Alderson said. “We looked at the possibility of him accepting, and we looked at the possibility of him being with us longer than a year. Both of those possibilities are of interest to us. ” INSIDE PITCH General Manager Sandy Alderson said the Mets were “disappointed and frankly shocked” that the   closer Jeurys Familia was arrested on Oct. 31 on accusations of domestic violence. Alderson said the team did not know more about Familia’s involvement beyond the police report. Alderson said the Mets had been interested in adding relief help before Familia’s arrest.   …     Alderson said the Mets intended to tender first baseman Lucas Duda a contract, even though he played only 47 games because of a back injury. Duda, who is eligible for his final season of arbitration before free agency, made $6. 72 million in 2016. “Right now, he’s our first baseman,” Alderson said.