’  ’ ”   Former Baltimore Ravens offensive tackle Eugene Monroe didn’t   give up football last year because he got too old, or because he   couldn’t hack it in one of the most lucrative positions in   football anymore  —   he left because of repeated head injuries. ” ’   And now, a year into his retirement, the    has taken up   a new cause: Convincing the NFL that players should be able to   use medical marijuana. ’ ’   ”  ’ ’   In the piece, Monroe discussed how his   love affair with   the game left him   and ”terrified” of   brain   injuries like chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE). Team   doctors would prescribe him   painkillers and     pills, which left him reeling from side   effects. ’ ’   ”I just thought that for longevity purposes  ’ ”   A year later, he’s devoted himself to cannabis activism, working   with partners like  to educate others about how cannabis can be a much   healthier alternative to opioids.  ” ”   Offensive tackle is one of the most demanding positions in   football, fraught with big collisions and the injuries that   follow. When Monroe was a player, team doctors prescribed   him pills after games for each injury he sustained. That’s   where the trouble started.  ” ’   ”T ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’ A  found ”substantial   evidence” that the main compounds in cannabis  —   THC and CBD  —   are   .  ’ ’   Just like opioid painkillers bond to natural opioid receptors;   cannabinoids like THC and CBD bond to the body’s natural   cannabinoid receptors. Doctors think the cannabinoid system may   play a crucial role in pain management, though the study notes   that more research is needed to suss out the connection.  ’ ’  ’ ’   Further studies have shown promising results that  effect and may reduce   the risk of developing CTE. The disease is a major issue in   professional sports  —   a  found that 96% of the   deceased NFL athletes they examined showed signs of CTE.  ’ ’   Monroe  of   his personal money to researchers at Johns Hopkins and the   University of Pennsylvania to study medical marijuana for   brain injury treatment. ’ ”   Doctors are still hesitant to recommend cannabis outright   —     pain management is a complicated   —   and there’s still a ton   of uncertainty around cannabis products. Cannabis’s  makes it difficult for doctors to   obtain quality samples for research.  ” ’   Despite Monroe and a number of other NFL players, including Nate   Jackson and Ricky Williams,    NFL leadership has so far declined to do so. ’ ’   Marijuana use has been a hot topic in the NFL in recent years.   Perhaps the most   case is that of Cleveland   Browns wide receiver Josh Gordon, who was suspended for the   entire 2015 season for smoking marijuana. ’ ”   Though Gordon’s 2015 suspension wasn’t the first time he ran   afoul of the NFL’s substance abuse policies, he was  he recently   completed a stint in rehab for his marijuana use.   The ” ’  ’ ’   Roger Goodell, the NFL’’s commissioner, has not been positive   about cannabis use, calling it ”addictive” on an . ’ ’   ” ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ”   Cannabis, however, is a collective bargaining issue, meaning that   NFL players must make a concession in exchange for changes to the   NFL’s policy, according to . ” ’   Monroe called it ”atrocious” for the NFL to ”try to bargain   something like this.” ’ ’   ”The decision to simply no longer punish players for using   marijuana  —   I don’’t think that needs to be negotiated,” Monroe   said. ”That’’s something that can be added to the current language   of the [Collective Bargaining Agreement].”  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Roger Goodell needs to put his big boy pants on and look    ’ ’Former Baltimore Ravens offensive tackle Eugene. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’