’  ’ ’   A ”paradigm shift” is taking place in financial technology.  ’ ’   Venture capital firms, which poured $117 billion into fintech   startups from 2012 to 2016, have been pulling back on   their investments. Meanwhile, established financial firms   are positioned to step up their spending. ’ ’   In a big note out to clients on May 18 titled ”Fintech: A   Gauntlet to Riches,” a group of equity analysts at Morgan Stanley   said this shift will lead to an environment   where legacy firms, or incumbents, ”take the reigns”of   financial innovation. ’ ’   ”Financials and payments incumbents are likely to be emboldened   to step up R&D and take the investment lead, and this   combination of   behavior represents a paradigm shift   that should benefit incumbents’’ [return on investment],” Morgan   Stanley said. ’ ’   Financial technology companies experienced a surge in funding   from 2012 to 2015, during which time venture capital firms poured   $92 billion into the space. Now it looks like those VC firms are   experiencing a bit of a hangover. ’ ’   In 2016, global venture capital investment in fintech companies   dipped to $25 billion, from $47 billion in 2015. ’ ’  ’ ’   In a recent interview with Business Insider, Amy Nauiokas,   the head of Anthemis Group, a New   venture capital   firm, described the time leading up to the dip as a ”period of   exuberance.” ’ ’   ”Big firms just sort of piled on a bunch of, let’’s say, happy   money,” Firms were thinking, we have money, we have capital, we   have to spend it,” she said. ’ ’   This environment of ”happy money” sent valuations for   fintechs to levels that some investors view as unreasonably   high. For instance,  ’ ’  ’ ’   According to Morgan Stanley, there are a number of factors that   will push legacy financial firms to step up their   investments in fintech companies. The most obvious factor is the   fear of disruption. ’ ’   ”[T]he threat of disruption from fintechs is forcing incumbents   to up their investments in technology to gain operating   efficiencies and preserve market share,” the bank said.  ’ ”   Deregulation is another trigger. If the Trump administration   follows through    then  firms won’t have to   spend as much cash on regulatory compliance. That would free   up money for fintech investment initiatives. Legacy firms’ focus   on lowering cost also provides an incentive to invest in   fintech. ” ’   ”Managing expenses remains a key focus for incumbents as one of   the drivers for earnings growth,” the bank said. ”It follows that   there is an increasing trend towards implementing more technology   to drive efficiencies with moderated headcount growth going   forward.” ’ ’   What is the net outcome of this shift? A better business   landscape for   Wall Street firms. ’ ’   ”As incumbents pick up investment while VCs reduce investment, we   tilt towards a world where incumbents are less susceptible to   disintermediation and more likely to   new technologies,”   the bank said.  ’ ’A ”paradigm shift” is taking place in financial. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’