’  ’ ’   United Nations experts investigating violations of sanctions on   North Korea have suffered a ”sustained” cyber attack by unknown   hackers with ”very detailed insight” into their work, according   to an email warning seen by Reuters on Monday. ’ ”   The hackers eventually breached the computer of one of the   experts on May 8, the chair of the panel of experts wrote in an   email to UN officials and the UN Security Council’s North Korea   sanctions committee, known as the 1718 committee. ” ’   ”The zip file was sent with a highly personalized message which   shows the hackers have very detailed insight into the panel’’s   current investigations structure and working methods,” read the   email, which was sent on May 8. ’ ’   ”As a number of 1718 committee members were targeted in a similar   fashion in 2016, I am writing to you all to alert you to this   heightened risk,” the chair of the panel of experts wrote,   describing the attack as part of a ”sustained cyber campaign.” ’ ’   A spokesman for the Italian mission to the United Nations, which   chairs the 1718 sanctions committee, said on Friday that a member   of the panel of experts had been hacked. ’ ’’ ’   No further details who might be responsible were immediately   available. ’ ’   North Korea’’s deputy United Nations envoy said on Friday ”it is   ridiculous” to link Pyongyang with the hacking of the UN panel of   experts or the WannaCry ”ransomware” cyber attack that started to   sweep around the globe more than a week ago. ’ ’   Cyber security researchers have found technical evidence they   said could link North Korea with the WannaCry attack. ’ ”   Reuters reported on Sunday that North Korea’s main spy agency has   a special cell called Unit 180 that is likely to have launched   some of its most daring and successful cyber attacks, according   to defectors, officials and internet security experts. ” ”     The UN Security Council first imposed sanctions on North Korea     in 2006 and has strengthened the measures in response to the     country’s five nuclear bomb tests and two   rocket     launches. Pyongyang is threatening a sixth nuclear test.   ” ’     A second email by the UN sanctions committee secretary to the     15 Security Council members on May 10 said the UN Office of     Information and Communications Technology was ”conducting an     analysis of the affected hard drive.”   ’ ’     ”Increased vigilance relating to 1718       correspondence is therefore advised until data analysis and     related investigations are completed,” the email read.   ’ ’     (Reporting by Michelle Nichols; Editing by Alistair Bell)   ’ ’United Nations experts investigating violations. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’