’  ’ ’   Be careful when you go for a swim in the neighborhood pool this   summer. ’ ’   The parasitic infection Cryptosporidium  —   known as Crypto  —   is on   the rise in the US,    (CDC). The parasite is the most common cause of diarrhea linked   to swimming pools and water parks, and it spreads when   people swallow something that has come into contact with the   feces of a sick person (such as pool water). ’ ’   The  ”healthy people sick for   up to three weeks with watery diarrhea, stomach cramps, nausea,   or vomiting, and can lead to dehydration.” ’ ’   In 2016, there were at least 32 outbreaks in the country, double   the number from 2014. In 2016, Ohio identified 1, 940 people   with Crypto after observing only 571 cases   annually between 2012 and 2015. ’ ’   The Crypto parasite is hard to kill, since it can   survive the standard levels of chlorine and other pool   disinfectants that kill most other germs within a few minutes. To   get rid of Crypto, the  for an     period of ”hyperchlorination.” ’ ”   Keeping Crypto out of a pool also means relying on people to be   responsible about showering before getting in a pool   and staying away from the water if they’ve recently suffered   from diarrhea. But that doesn’t always happen  —   a recent    found that 25% of   adults said they’d swim within an hour of having diarrhea   and just over half never shower before getting in the pool. ” ’  ’ ’   After realizing that the parasite was on rise, the CDC launched a     tracking system for identifying Crypto   outbreaks in 2010.  ’ ”   To avoid getting sick, the CDC recommends not swallowing any   water while you swim, which is easier said than done, of   course. It just takes a mouthful of water that’s been   contaminated to make you sick. Experts also urge people to   rinse off before diving in, and to take kids on frequent bathroom   breaks. They also suggest changing diapers for young ones in a   separate area away from the pool. ” ”   And if you’ve been sick with Crypto? Stay out of the water,   please. ” ’Be careful when you go for a swim in the. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’