’  ’ ’   The Senate Intelligence Committee said it is issuing new   subpoenas for documents from two   business entities   controlled by Michael Flynn. ’ ”   The move suggests the committee is turning up the heat   on Flynn, who was forced to resign from his post as   President Donald Trump’s national security adviser in February. ” ’   Flynn invoked his Fifth Amendment rights on Monday, in response   to the committee’’s subpoena for documents related to his   communications with Russian operatives between 2015 and 2017.   Flynn’’s attorney, Robert Kelner, cited what he described as an   ”escalating public frenzy against” Flynn in a letter to the   committee. ’ ’   The committee’’s ranking member, Sen. Mark Warner, said of the new   subpoenas targeting businesses connected to Flynn, ”A business   does not have a right to take the Fifth if it’’s a corporation,”   The Wall Street Journal reported. ’ ”   Warner and Senate Intelligence Committee chair Sen. Richard Burr,   responded to Flynn’s Fifth Amendment plea on Monday: ” ’’ ”   Flynn has increasingly become the center of inquiries into   Russia’s meddling in the 2016 US presidential election and   Russia’s contacts with Trump associates. He agreed to   testify before the House and Senate intelligence committees in   late March in exchange for immunity from prosecution, but neither   committee has agreed to that so far. ” ”   Flynn’s time at the White House lasted just 24 days. He was asked   to resign February 13, with the White House saying he had misled   Vice President Mike Pence about conversations he had with   Russia’s ambassador to the US, Sergey Kislyak, during the   transition. But Trump continued to defend him, going as far as   suggesting to FBI Director James Comey the next day to drop the   investigation into Flynn’s foreign contacts, according to a memo   Comey wrote about the conversation cited by The New York Times.   Trump fired Comey on May 9. ” ’The Senate Intelligence Committee said it is. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’