’’ ’Apple is testing   wireless technologies, often called ”5G,” that could potentially radically increase the speed and bandwidth of an iPhone’’s cellular connection.’ ’An application for an experimental license to use new wireless technology, called millimeter wave, was signed on Tuesday by Apple and made public by the FCC. ’ ’”Apple Inc. seeks to assess cellular link performance in direct path and multipath environments between base station transmitters and receivers using this spectrum,” according to the application.’ ’”These assessments will provide engineering data relevant to the operation of devices on wireless carriers’ future 5G networks,” it continued. ’ ”Apple will test these technologies at two locations, according to the application: One in Milpitas, California, on Yosemite Drive, and one on Mariana Avenue that was originally Apple’s first headquarters, and is adjacent to its current headquarters at 1 Infinite Loop. ” ’From the application: ’ ’The Apple application specifically mentions the 28 and 39 GHz bands, which the FCC approved for commercial use for 5G applications last year. The experiments will use technology manufactured by Rohde & Schwarz, A. H. Systems, and Analog Devices.’ ’The application lists Mark Neumann, a regulatory engineer, as its primary contact. ’ ’One of the biggest promises of  is that when it is ubiquitous, latency will go down, allowing devices to access more bandwidth more reliably than is currently possible with cellular networks. ’ ”However, it’s unclear what Apple’s intention for these two testing sites is, and Apple has not been publicly connected to 5G research or experimentation before, although it did recently . ” ’One of the bands that Apple intends to test, 28GHz, is allocated for    transmissions, according to part of the application.  that Apple formed a new hardware team filled with people who have experience with spacecraft and satellite design.  ’ ’The filing comes as Apple is in a legal dispute with its current supplier for wireless chips, Qualcomm, .’ ’Apple did not immediately respond to a request for comment. ’ ’Apple is testing   wireless. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’