’  ’ ’   The chief ethics lawyer for former President George W. Bush was   troubled by The  that President Donald Trump asked two of the   top US intelligence officials in March to push back against an   FBI investigation into whether his campaign colluded with Russian   officials in the 2016 presidential election. ’ ’   ”I’’m concerned about it,” Richard Painter, who served as Bush’’s   top ethics lawyer from 2005 to 2007 and is currently a law   professor at the University of Minnesota, told Business Insider.   ”You just have more of the same. I mean, this is obstruction of   justice. This investigation needs to go forward and it involves   the president’’s campaign. He should stay out of it. ’ ’   ”This is the mistake that Nixon made,” he continued. ’ ’   Painter was referencing former President Richard Nixon, who   resigned from office after he attempted to interfere in an FBI   investigation into the Watergate   and subsequent scandal. ’ ’   ”Because Nixon never ordered anyone to break into the Watergate,”   Painter said. ”He just should’’ve let it be and not gotten   involved and had the White House stay out and let the prosecutors   find the people who ordered the break in and prosecute them.” ’ ’   ”And you’’d have   people and that’’d be the end of the   discussion,” he continued. ”But Nixon decided he’’s going to do a     and try and stop the investigation. And that blew up in   his face. And that’’s unfortunately where Trump is going right   now.” ’ ’   It remains a mystery as to whether Nixon did or did not order the      that showed he did. ’ ’   So far, the US government and intelligence agencies have not   produced any evidence that the Trump campaign did indeed collude   with Russian officials. Investigations are ongoing. ’ ”   The Post, sourcing current and former US officials, reported   Monday that Trump appealed to both Director of National   Intelligence Dan Coats and National Security Agency Director Mike   Rogers to publicly deny there was any collusion between his camp   and Russia during the election, but both refused to do so. Trump   made the request after FBI Director James Comey announced the   existence of the FBI’s investigation at a March hearing before   the House Intelligence Committee. ” ’   Comey, who was controversially fired by Trump earlier this month,   was overseeing that investigation. ’ ’   ”The White House does not confirm or deny unsubstantiated claims   based on illegal leaks from anonymous individuals,” an unnamed   White House spokesman told the Post. ”The president will continue   to focus on his agenda that he was elected to pursue by the   American people.” ’ ’   During a hearing before the Senate Armed Services Committee on   Tuesday, Coats said it was ”not appropriate” for him ”to comment   on any of that” when asked about the content of the Post’’s   report, neither confirming nor denying it. ’ ”   The Post reported that other senior White House officials also   discussed how to push Comey to drop a probe into Trump’s former   national security adviser, Michael Flynn, and his ties to foreign   governments. ” ’  ’ ”   That story came at the tail end of what’s been nearly two weeks   of fallout from Trump’s firing of Comey. ” ’   In the days after Comey’’s firing, reports surfaced that Trump had    to take   a loyalty pledge and later suggested that he ”” of the   investigation into Flynn. Trump has disputed these accounts, but   that legal experts have said that if they’’re true, Trump’’s   actions could amount to . ’ ’   Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein then appointed former FBI   Director Robert Mueller to oversee the Russia investigation. Days   later,    reported that Trump told Russian diplomats in an Oval Office   meeting that his firing of Comey, whom he called a ”nut job,” had   taken ”great pressure” off him with regard to Russia. ’ ’ He said he doubts that   Trump collaborated with Russia, though people working for him   might have. ’ ’   ”It’’s silly for the president to do this and try to defend   Flynn,” he continued. ”I mean Flynn was a liar. Flynn lied. Why   defend Flynn? Well he’’s worried that Flynn might turn evidence on   other people. Well, if his campaign managers were doing stuff   with the Russians then they get in trouble. But he could stay   away from that. He’’s not making smart decisions here.” ’ ’   He said that the Post’’s story, if true, is just the latest piece   in what’’s becoming the ”piling up” of ”evidence of obstruction of   justice.” ’ ’   ”That’’s what got Nixon,” he said. ”It was the cover up.” ’ ’The chief ethics lawyer for former President. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’