’  ’ ’   The Congressional Budget Office on Wednesday released   an updated score for the American Health Care Act (AHCA)   the House GOP health bill, that showed it would leave   millions more uninsured while potentially undermining protections   for people with preexisting conditions. ’ ’   The report projected that 23 million more Americans   would be uninsured by 2026 compared to the current   healthcare system, slightly lower than  ’ ’   ”Premiums would vary significantly according to health status and   the types of benefits provided, and less healthy people would   face extremely high premiums,” the report said. ’ ’   The report was conducted in the wake of two new amendments that   were added to the bill . It projected that the AHCA   would cut the federal deficit by $119 billion, $32 billion   less than the savings the CBO  ’ ’   That aspect was key, because Republicans plan   to consider the bill under the reconciliation process   in the Senate. By those rules, the bill must shave off at   least $2 billion from the federal deficit in order to be   considered. House Speaker Paul Ryan had delayed sending the bill   to the Senate in anticipation of the latest CBO score. ’ ’’ ’   The report also confirmed one of the biggest worries of health   experts and constituents  —   that the bill could undermine   protections for people with preexisting conditions. ’ ”   The CBO looked at the possible effects of an amendment   added to the bill after the previous CBO score. The provision   would allow states to apply for a waiver to repeal Obamacare’s   essential health benefits and   community rating   protections. ” ’   House Speaker Paul Ryan, who championed the legislation, said the   report confirms it ”achieves our mission: lowering premiums and   lowering the deficit.” But Democrats and even some Republicans   slammed the bill and suggested a new approach might be needed. ’ ’   ”With today’’s news, the ’’Collapse and Replace’’ of Obamacare may   prove to be the most effective path forward,” said Sen. Lindsey   Graham, a Republican from South Carolina. ’ ’   Around   of the population in the US lives in a state   that the CBO projects would receive a waiver for community   rating. That provision says insurers must charge people   of the same age living in the same area the same amount for   premiums. Health policy experts have worried that by repealing   community rating, insurers could charge more to those with   preexisting conditions and possibly price them out of the market. ’ ’   That concern was echoed in the CBO projections, which said   sick people could eventually be priced out of insurance. ’ ’   From the report: ’ ’   The report’’s conclusions ran contrary to what Republicans leaders   had said in the lead up to the passage of the law  —   that even   with the waivers, the AHCA had ”layers of protections” to make   sure those with preexisting conditions would be covered. ’ ’   The CBO said roughly   of the population lives in states   that would receive waivers for the essential health   benefits, which impose a mandatory set of procedures and care   that an insurer must cover  —   such as maternity care and     visits. That would drive down premiums by 20%   from the current baseline in those states, according to the CBO,   because ”insurance policies would provide fewer benefits.” ’ ’   In those states that waive EHBs, the CBO said, more people could   have coverage but end up paying higher costs. ’ ’   ”Although premiums would decline, on average, in states that   chose to narrow the scope of EHBs, some people enrolled in   nongroup insurance would experience substantial increases in what   they would spend on health care,” said the report. ”People living   in states modifying the EHBs who used services or benefits no   longer included in the EHBs would experience substantial   increases in    spending on health care or would   choose to forgo the services.” ’ ’   The report says that    costs for things like   maternity care, substance abuse, and mental health care would   increase substantially for some people. ’ ’   In each previous report, the CBO said Obamacare and previous   versions of the AHCA would not cause the individual health   insurance markets to become unstable. Under the new   waiver provision, however, that would no longer be the case. ’ ’   ”The agencies estimate that about   of the population   resides in areas in which the nongroup market would start to   become unstable beginning in 2020,” the report said. ”That   instability would result from market responses to decisions by   some states to waive two provisions of federal law, as would be   permitted under H. R. 1628.” ’ ’   The Senate is expected to craft its own version of a   healthcare bill instead of using the current form of the AHCA. ’ ’The Congressional Budget Office on Wednesday. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’