’  ’ ’   Attorney General Jeff Sessions reportedly did not disclose his   meeting with Russian officials last year when he applied for his   security clearance, according to a Justice Department official   Wednesday. ’ ’   Sessions did not note on his security clearance forms that he had   met with Russian ambassador Sergey Kislyak at least twice that   year, . The form required Sessions to include any contact he   or his family made with a foreign government or its   representatives during a span of seven years, the report said. ’ ’   Although Sessions had included meetings with foreign officials   that took place in one year, a Justice Department spokesperson   said that an FBI employee who was assisting in the process told   Sessions and his staff that he did not need to include the dozens   of meetings that were held during his time in the Senate. ’ ”   After CNN published its report, the Justice Department’s public   affairs office released the following statement: ” ’     ”As a United States Senator, the Attorney General met     hundreds —  if not thousands —  of foreign dignitaries and their     staff. In filling out the   form, the Attorney General’s     staff consulted with those familiar with the process, as well     as the FBI investigator handling the background check, and was     instructed not to list meetings with foreign dignitaries and     their staff connected with his Senate activities.”   ’ ”   However, Mark Zaid, an attorney who deals with national security   law, poured cold water on the Justice Department’s assertion and   indicated that Sessions still needed to annotate his meetings on   the form. He previously advised an official in Congress to   include all foreign contacts, including those that were made   while conducting official US business. ” ’’ ’   ”My interpretation is that a member of Congress would still have   to reveal the appropriate foreign government contacts   notwithstanding it was on official business,” Zaid said in CNN’’s   report. ’ ”   Federal officials are not required to include meetings on the   security form if it was for a foreign conference that they   attended in their official capacity; however, Sessions’ meetings   may not meet that standard for exclusion because the meetings in   question do not appear to be related to foreign conferences, CNN   reported. ” ’   During Sessions’’ Senate confirmation hearings in January,   Sessions failed to disclose meeting Kislyak, testifying that he   ”did not have communications” with Russian officials during   Donald Trump’’s presidential campaign. ’ ”   One day after a Washington Post report revealed that Sessions had   two meetings with Kislyak  —   meetings he did not disclose  —     Sessions recused himself from the FBI’s     investigation. He later amended his Senate confirmation testimony   to include the two meetings with Kislyak. ” ’   ”Let me be clear,” Sessions said before making his recusal   announcement in March, ”I never had meetings with Russian   operatives or Russian intermediaries about the Trump campaign.” ’ ’Attorney General Jeff Sessions reportedly did. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’