’  ’ ”   The FBI obtained a document supposedly hacked by the Russians   last summer that purported to show that     General Loretta Lynch had been privately reassuring Hillary   Clinton’s campaign that the Department of Justice would not be   pursuing the investigation into her private email server too   aggressively. ” ”   The document, first disclosed by The  in   late April and described in more detail by the  on   Wednesday, reportedly influenced former FBI Director James   Comey’s decision to be more public about the bureau’s probe into   Clinton’s use of a private server while secretary of state. ” ”   The FBI determined by August that the document was likely a   Russian plant consisting of bad intelligence. It described   an email that was allegedly sent by Debbie Wasserman Schultz  —     then the chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee  —     to an official at billionaire George Soros’ Open Society   Foundations. The document didn’t include the email, which   supposedly described how Lynch had privately assured a   Clinton campaign staffer during the election that the DOJ   wouldn’t take the email probe too far. ” ’   Matt Rojansky, a Russia expert and director of the  at the Wilson Center, told the Post that the fact   that the Russians would cook up a story linking the Clinton   campaign to a conspiracy involving her email server,   an Obama administration appointee, and George Soros  —     frequently villainized by the right as a meddlesome   ”globalist”  —   is ”not surprising.” ’ ’   ”That is part of the Kremlin worldview,” he said. ’ ’’ ”   The discovery of the document, which the FBI has now   determined to be largely if not entirely fraudulent,   reportedly factored into Comey’s decision to bypass the DOJ   last summer and announce the findings of the FBI’s email server   probe in a press conference on July 5. (Another factor was   Lynch’s private meeting the week prior with former President   Bill Clinton on an airport tarmac in Phoenix.) ” ”   Current and former officials familiar with Comey’s thinking told   the Times and the Post that Comey was worried that if Lynch   closed the case and Russia leaked the document, it would cast   doubt on probe’s credibility and independence. ” ’   Others have said that is a disingenuous attempt to defend Comey’’s   decision to bypass the DOJ. Some officials told the Times that   Comey wanted to ”put himself in the spotlight.” Another told the   Post that the letter ”didn’’t mean anything to the investigation   until after [senior FBI officials] had to defend themselves.” ’ ’   ”Then they decided it was important,” the unnamed official said.   ”But it’’s junk, and they already knew that.” ’ ”   The revelation that a doctored memo planted by the Russians may   have impacted Comey’s treatment of the investigation will likely   rile those who disagreed with his decision to revisit the email   probe 11 days before the election. Comey felt compelled to tell   Congress that the bureau had discovered new emails that were   possibly relevant to the investigation because he had   already gone public with the details of the case  —   and given   congressional testimony about it  —   three months earlier. ” ’   FBI officials briefed Lynch on the existence of the document one   month after Comey announced the end of the email   investigation. She said that she had ”never communicated” with   the Clinton campaign staffer in question, and offered to be   formally interviewed by the FBI about the matter, according to   the Post. The bureau did not take her up on it, but did warn her   that some of the intelligence contained in the document was   dubious.  ’ ”   Amanda Renteria, the Clinton staffer whom Lynch supposedly   communicated with, also told the Post that she had never spoken   to Lynch. And   said she had never heard of the   Open Society Foundations official, Leonard Benardo, whom she   allegedly emailed to discuss Lynch’s communications with   Renteria.  ” ’   Sen. Chuck Grassley asked Comey, whom President Donald Trump   fired earlier this month, about the document during a recent   Senate Judiciary Committee hearing. ’ ’   He replied that the subject was ”classified.” ’ ’The FBI obtained a document supposedly hacked. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’