’  ’ ”   Montanans could very well wake up Thursday having elected a   congressman who was  just a day before the   state’s special election.  ” ”   Greg Gianforte, the Republican running for Montana’s sole House   seat, which was vacated in March when President Donald Trump   tapped Ryan Zinke to be secretary of the interior,   remained the favorite to win leading up to Thursday’s   election.  ” ”   But the outcome of the race may be swung after Gianforte’s   physical altercation with Guardian reporter Ben Jacobs, who   pressed him on a question about the GOP healthcare bill during a   campaign event on Wednesday.  ” ’   Jacobs called the police after the incident, which he described   as getting ”body slammed.” Witness accounts aligned with Jacobs’’   version of events, and Gianforte was later charged   with misdemeanor assault. ’ ”   It’s unclear how Wednesday’s events might affect the outcome   of the race, but 250, 000 of Montana’s 699, 000   registered voters have already mailed in their votes, leaving   just   to be cast on Election day. ” ’   The Republican was leading his opponent, Rob Quist, by    in one late April poll, but a  conducted around the same   time found just a   gap between the candidates  —   and   also showed that among those most motivated to vote,   Gianforte and Quist were neck and neck.  ’ ”   News of the physical altercation made waves in Washington, where   Democrats   condemned Gianforte’s actions as an   attack on the free press that should disqualify him from taking a   seat in the House. Some Republicans, including Montana   Republican Sen. Steve Daines, also criticized Gianforte, but   didn’t agree that his actions should be disqualifying.  ” ’   ”There is no time where a physical altercation should occur,”   Republican House Speaker Paul Ryan told reporters on Thursday,   adding that he would ”let the people of Montana decide who they   want as their representative.”  ’ ’   Three of Montana’’s most prominent newspapers  of Gianforte, calling his   behavior ” ’ ’  ’ ’ ’ ’     ’ ’Montanans could very well wake up. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’