’  ’ ’   The 4th US Circuit Court of Appeals on Thursday largely upheld a   nationwide block on President Donald Trump’’s travel ban, arguing   that it ”drips with religious intolerance, animus, and   discrimination.” ’ ’   The Trump administration will most likely appeal the ruling to   the Supreme Court. ’ ”   The ban was Trump’s second stab at an executive order halting   travel from certain   countries. ” ’   In the  the 4th Circuit’’s chief judge, Roger   Gregory, wrote that although the president is granted broad power   by Congress to deny entry to foreign visitors, ”that power is not   absolute.” ’ ’   ”It cannot go unchecked when, as here, the president wields it   through an executive edict that stands to cause irreparable harm   to individuals across this nation,” Gregory wrote. ’ ’’ ’   The judges said they were ”unconvinced” that the underlying   purpose of the travel ban was to maintain national security and   that it was instead done to implement Trump’’s promise during his   presidential campaign to bar Muslims from entering the US. ’ ”   The ruling comes after a federal judge in Maryland issued an   injunction in March also arguing that Trump’s order was a   fulfillment of his pledge. ” ”   The Trump administration’s  before the   4th Circuit   that comments Trump made while he was campaigning should not be   considered when weighing his executive order. ” ’   ”This is not a Muslim ban. Its text doesn’’t have anything to do   with religion,” Jeffrey Wall, the acting solicitor general, told   the court earlier this month. ”Its operation doesn’’t have   anything to do with religion.” ’ ’   On January 27, Trump signed his original executive order, which   barred people from Iraq, Iran, Syria, Yemen, Libya, Sudan, and   Somalia and all Syrian refugees. The order triggered mass chaos   and protests at airports across the country, as even visa holders   and permanent residents were detained and denied entry by customs   officials. ’ ’   When courts blocked that order, Trump issued a revised one in   March that removed Iraq from the list of countries, allowed some   exceptions for the entry of visitors from the remaining     countries, and removed the shutdown on the   admission of Syrian refugees. ’ ’The 4th US Circuit Court of Appeals on Thursday. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’