’  ’ ’   SEOUL (Reuters)   After successful missile launches, North Korean   leader Kim Jong Un often exchanges smiles and hugs with the same   three men and shares a celebratory smoke with them. ’ ”   The three, shown with Kim in photographs and TV footage in North   Korean media, are of great interest to Western security and   intelligence agencies since they are the top people in the   secretive country’s rapidly accelerating missile program. ” ’   They include Ri Pyong Chol, a former top air force general; Kim   Jong Sik, a veteran rocket scientist; and Jang Chang Ha, the head   of a weapons development and procurement center. ’ ”   The photographs and TV footage show that the three are clearly   Kim’s favorites. Their behavior with him is sharply at variance   with the obsequiousness of other senior aides, most of whom bow   and hold their hands over their mouths when speaking to the young   leader. ” ”   Unlike most other officials, two of them have flown with Kim in   his private plane   named after North Korea’s national   bird, state TV has shown. ” ”   With their ruling Workers Party, military and scientific   credentials, the trio is indispensable to North Korea’s rapidly   developing weapons programs   the isolated nation has conducted   two nuclear tests and dozens of missile launches since the   beginning of last year, all in violation of U. N. resolutions. ” ’   ”Rather than going through bureaucrats, Kim Jong Un is keeping   these technocrats right by his side, so that he can contact them   directly and urge them to move fast. It reflects his urgency   about missile development,” said An   a former North   Korean military officer who has defected to the South and runs a   think tank in Seoul. ’ ”   Kim Jong Sik and Jang are not from elite families, unlike many   other senior figures in North Korea’s ruling class, North Korean   leadership experts say. They said Ri, the former air force   commander, has been to one of the   schools in   North Korea, but he and the other two were   by Kim   Jong Un. ” ’   ”Kim Jong Un is raising a new generation of people separate from   his father’’s key aides,” said a South Korean official with   knowledge of the matter, referring to Kim Jong Il, who died in   late 2011 leaving the younger Kim in charge. ’ ’   The official requested anonymity due to the sensitivity of the   matter. ’ ’  ’ ’   The most prominent of the three is Ri, according to leadership   experts. ’ ”   Always shown smiling in photographs, he is now deputy director of   the Workers’ Party Munitions Industry Department, which oversees   the development of North Korea’s ballistic missile program,   according to the South Korean government and U. S. Treasury. ” ”   The department was blacklisted by the U. S. Treasury in 2010 and   Ri was named by the South Korean government last year for   activities related to the country’s weapons programs. ” ’   ”The big potato in that trio of people is Ri Pyong Chol,” said   Michael Madden, an expert on the North Korean leadership. ”He’’s   been around since before Kim Jong Un was even talked about with   any seriousness”. ’ ’   Born in 1948, Ri was partly educated in Russia and promoted when   Kim Jong Un started to rise through the ranks in the late 2000s,   Madden and the South Korean government official said. ’ ”   Ri has visited China once and Russia twice. He met China’s   defense minister in 2008 as the air force commander and   accompanied Kim Jong Il on a visit to a Russian fighter jet   factory in 2011, according to state media. ” ’   ”Ri looks like the party’’s guy in the missile program,” said Kim     an expert on North Korea’’s elite and former government   think tank analyst in Seoul. ’ ’   The rocket scientist in the trio is Kim Jong Sik. ’ ’   He started his career as a civilian aeronautics technician, but   now wears the uniform of a military general at the Munitions   Industry Department, according to experts and the South Korean   government. ’ ’  ’ ”   But it was his role in the North Korea’s first successful launch   of a rocket in 2012 which really helped him earn recognition,   Madden said. ” ’   ”When that thing went off and entered into a lower earth orbit,   he got credit for that,” said Madden. ”The nuclear and missile   guys under Kim Jong Un are getting their jobs based on merit”. ’ ’   Last year, Kim Jong Sik was at the National Aerospace Development   Administration or ”NADA” North Korea’’s official space agency,   where he escorted Kim Jong Un through the mission control room   ahead of a successful   rocket launch in February. ’ ”   State TV footage showed him riding to a launch site in Kim Jong   Un’s private plane. Upon arrival, he accompanied the young leader   down the red carpet and received flowers from other senior   officials. ” ’   Most other details, including his age, are not known. ’ ’   Of the three men, the least is known about Jang Chang Ha,   president of the Academy of the National Defence Science,   previously called the Second Academy of Natural Sciences. ’ ’   The body is in charge of the secretive country’’s research and   development of its advanced weapons systems, ”including missiles   and probably nuclear weapons” the U. S. Treasury said in 2010 in   its decision to blacklist the group. ’ ’   The organization obtains technology, equipment, and information   from overseas for use in weapons programs, the Treasury said.   Jang was added to the Treasury blacklist in December 2016. ’ ’  ’ ”   Under Jang’s leadership, the academy has around 15, 000 staff,   including some 3, 000 missile engineers, according to South Korean   media reports, citing unnamed sources. ” ”   North Korea’s banned weapons program began in the early 2000s   with a similar trio of men close to the leadership who   specialized in procurement, science and military affairs. ” ’   Of them, logistician Jon Pyong Ho has died. The others     scientist So Sang Guk and military coordinator O Kuk Ryol   are   elderly and no longer in the public eye. ’ ”   Their place, Madden said, has been taken by Kim Jong Un’s     men. ” ’   ”These are the men bringing North Korea’’s missile program into   the 21st Century.” he said. ’ ’   (Additional reporting by Yeganeh Torbati in WASHINGTON; Editing   by Soyoung Kim and Raju Gopalakrishnan) ’ ’SEOUL (Reuters)   After successful missile. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’