Hillary Clinton publicly conceded the election to Donald J. Trump on Wednesday, acknowledging the pain of the defeat in remarks in New York while calling on her supporters to accept that he would be president and give him a chance to lead with an open mind. President Obama, speaking in Washington, also said that he would work to ensure a smooth transition to a Trump administration and that, despite their differences, we are “all rooting for his success. ” Speaker Paul D. Ryan proclaimed that Mr. Trump had achieved a political feat and earned a mandate by reaching new voters. Mr. Ryan said that he was certain that they would work well together on a conservative policy agenda. Global markets swooned overnight but stabilized as investors considered the possibility that Mr. Trump’s mix of policies might bolster the economy.. News of Mr. Trump’s election was met with a mix of shock, uncertainty and some congratulations around the world. • Mrs. Clinton thanked her supporters in her concession speech, and said that she felt pride in the campaign she ran. • Of Mr. Trump, Mrs. Clinton said she hoped that he would be “a successful president for all Americans,” and that she respected and cherished the peaceful transition of power. She told her supporters that they must accept that Mr. Trump would be president. “We owe him an open mind and a chance to lead,” she said. But she also acknowledged that the country was more divided than she had realized. • After a long campaign, Mrs. Clinton acknowledged that the loss cuts deep. “This is painful, and it will be for a long time,” she said. She also expressed regret that she did not shatter the glass ceiling, but said, “Someday, someone will, and hopefully sooner than we might think right now. ” • Senator Tim Kaine of Virginia, the Democratic   nominee, who spoke before Mrs. Clinton, said, “I’m proud of Hillary Clinton because she has been and is a great history maker,” pointing to her long career of public service. He saluted her for winning the popular vote in the election, drawing cheers. • Mr. Obama said that he and former President George W. Bush had major differences eight years ago, but they managed a successful transition. He said he expected to do the same with Mr. Trump, while acknowledging that they have their differences, and he invited the   to come to the White House on Thursday. • Mr. Obama reminded the country that we “are all on the same team” and characterized politics as an “intramural scrimmage. ” He said that he was heartened by the conversation that he had with Mr. Trump at 3:30 a. m. and that he hoped Mr. Trump maintains that spirit. • Mr. Obama said that he was proud of Mrs. Clinton, who gave her concession speech on Wednesday just before Mr. Obama spoke, and called her a historic figure. • Mr. Obama called on Americans to move forward with the presumption of good faith in fellow citizens. He said that those who were disappointed should not give up on their dreams. “Sometimes you lose an argument, sometimes you lose an election,” he said, with Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. by his side. “But the path this country has taken has never been a straight line. We zig and zag. ” The Vermont senator, who ran against Mrs. Clinton in the Democratic primary campaign, was silent on the election for most of Wednesday, but in the early evening he offered something of an olive branch to Mr. Trump and acknowledged the middle class anger that he tapped into. “To the degree that Mr. Trump is serious about pursuing policies that improve the lives of working families in this country, I and other progressives are prepared to work with him,” Mr. Sanders said in a statement. But Mr. Sanders maintained that he is opposed to much of what Mr. Trump has stood for and that he will fight any intolerance that he might try to promote as president. “To the degree that he pursues racist, sexist, xenophobic and   policies, we will vigorously oppose him,” Mr. Sanders said. Mr. Ryan congratulated Mr. Trump for accomplishing an “enormous political feat” on Wednesday and said that he was looking forward to working with him to carry forward a Republican policy agenda and prioritize the repeal of the Affordable Care Act. “This health care law is not a popular law,” Mr. Ryan said, adding that Congress had already shown it can get a repeal bill to the president’s desk. “This health care law is collapsing of its own weight. ” That clearly indicated that Republican leaders would use budget rules, called reconciliation, to gut the Affordable Care Act with only a majority of Congress, as they did in January. Senate Democrats would be powerless to filibuster the legislation under the parliamentary rules. Mr. Ryan, who has had differences with Mr. Trump, said that they had spoken twice in the last 18 hours and that he was “very excited” about their ability to work together. “He just earned a mandate,” Mr. Ryan said. The last two Republican presidents gave the next Republican president congratulatory telephone calls on Wednesday. “Laura and I wish the   Melania and the entire Trump family all our very best as they take on an awesome responsibility and begin an exciting new chapter in their lives,” former President George W. Bush said in a statement. Mr. Bush had been critical of Mr. Trump when he was campaigning on behalf of his brother Jeb this year but said that he was rooting for Mr. Trump now. “We pray for the success of our country and the success of our new president,” Mr. Bush said. Mr. Bush’s father, George Bush, the 41st president, also spoke to Mr. Trump on Wednesday. A spokesman said that they talked for about five minutes and that the call was friendly and gracious. “Good luck on your new challenge,” Mr. Bush said. Jeb Bush, the former Florida governor vanquished by Mr. Trump during the Republican primary process, sent Mr. Trump a congratulatory message on Twitter. Dozens of Republican elected officials resisted Mr. Trump’s rise to power, including some who revoked their endorsements in the heat of the general election. Senators like Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and John McCain of Arizona declared Mr. Trump unfit to lead, while ideological conservatives like Ben Sasse of Nebraska and Mike Lee of Utah warned of Mr. Trump’s indifference to the limits of government power. These Trump critics on the right now face a wrenching political choice: to defer to him as the country’s new leader, or to take up a   role against a Republican as he assembles his administration. Since Republicans kept control of the House and Senate, dissenters within Mr. Trump’s party may hold outsize influence over exactly how he can govern as president. Mr. Graham took a reserved approach in his statement on the election on Tuesday, saying that he would aim to help Mr. Trump govern  —   within the bounds of a fairly conventional Republican agenda.