’  ’ ”   The Seattle Seahawks have made the playoffs in each of Russell   Wilson’s five seasons and have even won a Super Bowl, but   apparently, not everyone on the team is a fan of the      quarterback. ” ’ in a bombshell profile of   Richard Sherman’’s growing divide with the team that Wilson has   long been a ”divisive” figure in the Seahawks locker room, namely   among the team’’s defense. ’ ”   According to Wickersham, several defensive players believe Wilson   gets special treatment from the coaching staff. Additionally,   many players have been turned off by Wilson and head coach Pete   Carroll’s reaction to their   loss to the Patriots in   the 2014 Super Bowl  —   . ” ’   Wickersham reports that the disdain for Wilson among some players   goes beyond the jealousy some teams typically have for star   quarterbacks (emphasis ours): ’ ’’ ’   According to Wickersham, the divide can be traced to   philosophical differences between Wilson and Carroll and players   like Sherman. Wilson and Carroll are relentlessly positive and   upbeat, choosing to move on from plays like the intercepted Super   Bowl pass from the   line. Others yearn for more criticism   and regret. ’ ’   Wickersham points to several examples of the divide between   Wilson and the defense. ’ ’   The Seahawks hold what Carroll calls ”Tell the Truth Mondays”   during film sessions, but some players joke that it should be   called ”Tell the Truth to Certain Players” because Wilson is   often ”exempt” from criticism. ’ ”   While some players think Wilson is a good quarterback, they also   are tired of Wilson’s positivity when the offense fails to   perform relative to the routinely excellent defense. ” ’   Wickersham writes: ”It galls the defense to hear Wilson, ever   positive, stand behind a podium and insist that the offense ’’made   some great plays’’ after games in which the Seahawks barely score    —   and then be propped up as if he were Aaron Rodgers.” ’ ”   In the end, however, Wilson is not going anywhere. He signed a     $87 million contract in 2015 and remains the franchise   quarterback. The Seahawks admitted to listening to trade offers   for Sherman this season but ultimately didn’t find a deal. ” ”   Wickersham reports that for now, tensions seem to have cooled   within the Seahawks, but it’s hard to imagine issues not bubbling   over should they hit a bump in the road this season. ” ’The Seattle Seahawks have made the playoffs in. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’