’  ’ ’   Despite reports of US and  North Korea’’s increased pace of   provocations, and the Trump administration’’s repeated claims that   ”all options are on the table,” the US would have to be insane to   attack North Korea. ’ ’   To the untrained eye, the preparations for war are all there. ’ ’   The US has deployed the  to South Korea to protect against   ballistic missiles. ’ ”   The world’s most advanced jet, the   . ” ”   The US has a carrier strike group, the  near North Korea’s shores. ” ”   And the US has permanently stationed 25, 000 members of the   world’s best organized fighting force near the North’s borders  —     and they . ” ”   But even the best systems in the world can’t stop a determined   foe with a handful of nukes. ” ”   Adm. Dennis Blair, who was the director of national intelligence   under President Barack Obama, recently told a crowd at the   Harvard Club that there was just no way to safely knock out all   of North Korea’s nuclear capabilities in one go. ” ’   ”If I were to run the national intelligence again and the   president comes to me and says, ’’Here is General Mattis’’ strike   plan, and can you ensure me that this will take out of all the   North Korea nuclear capabilities? ’’ it won’’t be easy to say yes,”   Blair said, according to . ’ ”   Blair said that before he’d advocate an attack on North Korea,   he’d accept it as a   state. ” ’   Blair’’s statement echoes Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis’’ recent   admission that a fight with the North would be ”.” ’ ’  ’ ”   The US has 2, 300 nuclear weapons, any one of which could hit   North Korea at a moment’s notice. North Korea may have about a   dozen nuclear weapons and the ability to hit a few close targets   within an hour or so of planning. ” ”   But it takes only a single nuclear detonation to make conflict   inevitable. Unlike the US’s surgical and virtually unpunished    North Korean missiles would likely return   fire thick and fast. ” ’ North Korea probably would respond with artillery   fire that would light up Seoul and its 10 million residents,   decoy missiles would streak across the sky to overwhelm missile   defenses, and ground forces would pour in through hidden tunnels. ’ ’   The US and South Korea undoubtedly would smash North Korean   forces in time, but not before a missile touched down or another   catastrophic act of war befell thousands, if not hundreds of   thousands, of innocent South Koreans. ’ ’   According to Bonnie Glaser, director of the China Power Project   at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, only one   military option even begins to make sense for North Korea. ’ ’   ”If North Korea has a ballistic missile on a launchpad that we   think is armed with a nuclear warhead,” then the US would seek to   eliminate that one single missile, Glaser said. ”But even a   strike on a missile on a launchpad could result in retaliation.” ’ ’  ’ ”   After all, how should the North Koreans know that incoming   missiles from the US had a limited objective? The risk remains   that they’d misinterpret a limited strike as a   attack. ” ’   And the idea of eliminating a single, consolidated threat from   North Korea simply is a dream. North Korea may very well be   beyond using launchpads, as its recent missile tests have taken   off from mobile launchers, many of which have   treads to   allow it to fire from hidden locations in the wilderness. ’ ’   All three options for dealing with North Korea  —    and   —     all terrible. But the most terrible and unlikely is direct   military action. ’ ’Despite reports of US and Chinese military. ..’ ’Your Editor (online now)’ ’’ ’’ ’’