’  ’ ”   Secretary of State Rex Tillerson has declined a request to host   an event to mark Islam’s holy month of Ramadan, two US officials   said, apparently breaking with a bipartisan tradition in place   with few exceptions for nearly 20 years. ” ”   Since 1999, Republican and Democratic secretaries of state have   nearly always hosted either an iftar dinner to break the day’s   fast during Ramadan or a reception marking the Eid     holiday at the end of the month, at the State Department. ” ”   Tillerson turned down a request from the State Department’s   Office of Religion and Global Affairs to host an Eid     reception as part of Ramadan celebrations, said two US officials   who declined to be identified because they were not authorized to   speak publicly. ” ’   According to an April 6 memo seen by Reuters, the office   which   typically initiates such events   recommended that Tillerson hold   an Eid   reception. ’ ’   His rejection of the request suggests there are no plans this   year for any   Ramadan function at the State   Department. The month of fasting and prayer for Muslims gets   under way in many countries on Saturday. ’ ’   When asked by Reuters to comment on Tillerson declining a request   to host an Eid   event in July for Ramadan, a State   Department spokesperson said: ’ ’   ”We are still exploring possible options for observance of Eid     which marks the end of the month of Ramadan. US   ambassadors are encouraged to celebrate Ramadan through a variety   of activities, which are held annually at missions around the   world.” ’ ”   Muslim activists have accused President Donald Trump’s   administration of having an unfriendly attitude toward Islam,   encapsulated by its attempts to ban citizens of several     countries from entering the United States. ” ”   The administration says that while it strongly opposes Islamist   militants, it has no quarrel with Islam. Aides point to Trump’s   visit this month to Saudi Arabia, the birthplace of Islam where   he addressed the leaders of more than 50 Muslim countries, as   evidence of that. ” ”   Members of Congress, Muslim civil society and community leaders,   diplomats from Muslim countries and senior US officials usually   attend the State Department Ramadan event, a symbol of the US   government’s diplomatic efforts with Muslim countries and people. ” ’   If Tillerson avoids hosting one this year, that could send a   message ”that it is not as important to this administration to   engage with Muslims,” said former US diplomat Farah Pandith, who   served in the Bush and Obama administrations and helped plan   Ramadan events at the White House and State Department. ’ ’   Tillerson issued a statement on Friday to mark the start of   Ramadan, which he called ”a month of reverence, generosity, and    .” ’ ’   ”Most importantly, it is a cherished time for family and friends   to gather and give charity to those who are less   fortunate,” he said. ’ ’  ’ ”   Former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright started the   tradition 18 years ago of America’s top diplomat hosting a public   event for Ramadan, a lunar month. ” ’   The secretary of state of the time usually gives remarks there on   the meaning of Ramadan. ’ ’   In April, the State Department’’s Office of Religion and Global   Affairs made a request to Tillerson’’s office that he deliver   remarks at an Eid   reception this year, and suggested a     range of dates in July. The event would serve to   ”highlight State Department initiatives and the importance of   Muslim engagement,” the memo said. ’ ’   It noted that by hosting a reception just after Ramadan, rather   than an iftar   an often sumptuous dinner at sunset   a State   Department event could be held any time of the day, thus   preventing ”a very late evening for the Secretary.” ’ ’   Several weeks later, that office and other offices at the State   Department were alerted that Tillerson declined the request, the   officials said. ’ ”   Reuters was told of the request being declined but did not see   Tillerson’s reply. An official with the Office of Religion and   Global Affairs did not respond to a request for comment. ” ’   Several prominent   groups in the Washington area   who are normally invited to the Ramadan event told Reuters this   week that they had yet to receive an invitation from the State   Department, which they said was unusual. ’ ’     ”If they’’re having one, we haven’’t been invited,” said Rabiah     Ahmed, spokeswoman for the Muslim Public Affairs Council in     Washington. A representative for her group has been invited to     the State Department event in the past, she said.   ’ ’  ’ ’     Trump’’s administration has had a fraught relationship with     Muslims. As a presidential candidate, the Republican urged a     temporary ban on Muslims entering the United States, called for     more surveillance of mosques and warned that radical Muslims     were ”trying to take over our children.”   ’ ’     Trump has since toned down his rhetoric and courts have halted     his temporary travel ban on people from six mostly Muslim     countries.   ’ ’     White House officials did not respond to a request for comment     on whether they would continue the tradition this year of     hosting a   event at the White House.   ’ ”     The State Department celebrates other religious traditions     though some of those commemorations are not as       as the State Department’s Ramadan event. In 2014,       of state John Kerry hosted the first ever     celebration at the State Department marking Diwali, the Hindu     festival.   ” ’     The White House also traditionally hosts annual Christmas and     Easter events as well as a Seder dinner to mark the Jewish     Passover.   ’ ”     The top US diplomat has personally hosted a Ramadan event every     year since 1999, often in the State Department’s grand Benjamin     Franklin room, apart from three years.   ” ’     In 2006 and 2015, deputies of the secretary of state at the     time hosted either an iftar dinner or an Eid   reception.     In 2014, Kerry hosted a reception for Eid   another     important Muslim holiday.   ’ ’     (Additional reporting by Arshad Mohammed and Matt Spetalnick;     Editing by Yara Bayoumy and Alistair Bell)   ’ ’Secretary of State Rex Tillerson has declined a. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’