’   ’ ”   Jared Kushner, President Donald Trump’s    and top White   House adviser, was willing to go extraordinary lengths to   establish a secret line of communication between the Trump   administration and Russian government officials, The Washington   Post  on Friday. ” ”   During the presidential transition period leading up to Trump’s   inauguration, Kushner held a series of meetings with the Russian   ambassador to the US, Sergey Kislyak, and the head of a Moscow   bank that was under US sanctions. ” ’   In talks with Kislyak in December, Kushner floated the   possibility of setting up a secure line of communication between   the Trump transition team and Russia  —   and having those talks   take place in Russian diplomatic facilities in the US, essentally   concealing their interactions from US government scrutiny,   The Post wrote, citing US intelligence officials briefed on the   matter. ’ ’   Kislyak reportedly passed along that request to Moscow. The   Post’’s Ellen Nakashima, Adam Entous, and Greg Miller   reported that the Russian ambassador was ”taken aback” by   Kushner’’s request, because it posed significant risks for both   the Trump team and the Kremlin.  ’ ”   Kushner, who did not disclose the meeting on his security   clearance form, is now a subject in the FBI’s investigation of   Russia’s election interference, and whether the Trump campaign   colluded with Moscow to undermine Hillary Clinton. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Kushner did not previously disclose the December meetings to US   officials during his background check, and the White House only   acknowleged them after news outlets reported on it. It follows a   pattern among key Trump advisers that unfolded during and after   the 2016 election. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Indeed, Kushner  the CEO of Russia’s   Vnesheconombank,   Sergey Gorkov, in December 2016, The New York Times reported in   late March.   ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Republican Rep. Tom Rooney asked Brennan if he ever found   ”any direct evidence of collusion between the Trump campaign   and Putin in Moscow” while he was the CIA director. ’ ’   Brennan replied that ”there was intelligence that the Russian   intelligence services were actively involved in this effort . ..   to try to get individuals to act on their behalf either wittingly   or unwittingly.” He added that he was ”was worried by the   contacts that the Russians were having with US persons” and ”had   unresolved questions” by the time he left office about whether”   the Russians had succeeded in getting Americans to do their   bidding. ’ ’  ’ ”Jared Kushner, President Donald Trump’s. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’