’  ’ ”   The FBI is examining whether Russian   officials suggested to President Donald Trump’s      Jared Kushner, that Russian banks could finance Trump associates’   business ventures if US sanctions were lifted or relaxed,    on   Friday, citing a current US law enforcement official. ” ”   The possibility first came under scrutiny after he meeting came on the heels of Kushner’s   meeting with Russia’s ambassador to the US, Sergey Kislyak, at   Trump Tower, in which he reportedly  ” ’  ’ ”   Kislyak reportedly orchestrated the meeting between Kushner and   Vnesheconombank CEO Sergey N. Gorkov,    reported earlier this year. Gorkov was appointed by Russian   President Vladimir Putin in January 2016 as part of a   restructuring of the bank’s management team,    last year. ” ’   Between 2012 and 2014, Vnesheconombank was used as cover for   Russian spy Evgeny Buryakov as he attempted to recruit New York   City residents as intelligence sources for Moscow, according to   the  Before that, Buryakov used   Vnesheconombank as a cover to spy and recruit assets in South   Africa. ’ ’’ ”would have had good reason to push for   the US to lift sanctions:    had huge success between   2007 and 2014, but came crashing down when oil prices tanked and   President Barack Obama levied sanctions on Kremlin officials and   entities over Russia’s annexation of Crimea. ” ’   By February 2016, the bank  —   whose stated official mission is to   ”take efforts to make the Russian economy more competitive,   diversify it, and foster investment”  —   was struggling to find   enough cash to stay afloat. Its bailout needs had increased to   $16 billion between 2016 and 2020, Reuters reported. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”As part of the preparation of the new strategy, executives of   Vnesheconombank met with representatives of leading financial   institutes in Europe, Asia, and America multiple times during   2016,” the bank  in March. ’ ’   ”During the talks, the existing practices of foreign development   banks and promising trends were discussed,” it added. It also   said the meetings took place ”with a number of representatives of   the largest banks and business establishments of the United   States, including Jared Kushner, the head of Kushner Companies.” ’ ”   That appears to conflict with the White House’s version of events    —   that Kushner met with Gorkov as a representative of Trump’s   transition team. ” ’   ”Jared attended the meeting in his capacity as a transition   official,” a senior White House official told Business Insider in   late March. ”Nothing of substance was discussed. There was no    .” ’ ’   The official added that Kushner took the meetings as part of his   role as ”the official primary point of contact with foreign   governments and officials.” ’ ’   ”Given this role, [Kushner] has volunteered to speak with   Chairman Burr’’s committee but has not yet received confirmation,”   the official added, referring to Sen. Richard Burr, chairman of   the Senate Intelligence Committee.   ’ ’  ’ ’The FBI is examining whether Russian. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’