The New York Times is inviting readers to take advantage of its reporting, analysis and commentary from the   through the aftermath of the 2016 election. Readers will have unlimited access to NYTimes. com for 72 hours from 12:01 a. m. ET on Monday, November 7 until 11:59 p. m. ET on Wednesday, November 9. “This is an important moment for our country,” said Arthur Sulzberger, Jr. publisher of The New York Times. “Independent journalism is crucial to democracy and I believe there is no better time to show readers the type of original journalism The New York Times creates every day. ” Below are highlights of what readers can expect from The Times’s coverage of this historic election: FOLLOW The Times’s live coverage on election night for reporting on hundreds of races across the country and   analysis by the political team. The Upshot plans to provide live forecasts of the Presidential and Senate elections, as it did during the 2016 primaries and the 2014 Senate midterms. These forecasts offer readers a constantly updated estimate of the final vote, based on the turnout patterns, exit polling, and demographics of places where votes have already been counted. The New York Times mobile news apps are free to download. Users can sign up for breaking news notifications, which allows users to stay on top of major news events. Readers can also sign up for free newsletters and get more of The New York Times delivered to their inbox. JOIN a livestream of election coverage on The Times’s Facebook page continuously throughout the night starting at 4:30 p. m. ET. Coverage will include live video reports from correspondents at polling stations across the country as well as college campuses, election viewing parties and more. International correspondents in a handful of countries will capture worldwide reaction to the results of the American election. LISTEN to a special   show hosted by The   podcast on Election Day in which Times politics reporters will answer questions from listeners. The day after the election, Times reporters will come together to discuss the results and recap this remarkable year in politics.