(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the  .) Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1. The surprise election of Donald Trump, a real estate    television star with no government experience, upended the political order in the United States and around the world. Mr. Trump marshaled   white and   voters disaffected by globalization and multiculturalism, waging a campaign that traded in derision and attacked the legitimacy of the political process. ____ 2. Mr. Trump turned to assembling his White House team. There are some familiar names among the potential candidates: Rudolph W. Giuliani, above, a former mayor of New York Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey and Newt Gingrich, a former speaker of the House. Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama, a crucial adviser on policy issues, and Steven Mnuchin, a businessman who was Mr. Trump’s national finance chairman, are also among those being considered as cabinet secretaries and advisers. ____ 3. Both Hillary Clinton and President Obama were stung by the voters’ repudiation, but reinforced the importance of a peaceful, orderly transition of power. Mrs. Clinton, who said the loss was “painful, and it will be for a long time,” also insisted that the nation owed Mr. Trump “an open mind and a chance to lead. ” ____ 4. In cities across the nation, like Oakland, Calif. above, people hit the streets to vent their anger at Mr. Trump’s election. A crowd of protesters in Oregon burned American flags and chanted, “That’s not my president. ” But many Americans are glad. In a former Pennsylvania steel town that was once a Democratic stronghold, people watched the returns Tuesday with mounting satisfaction. “He’s killing it  —   that’s our next president,” said one voter. Mr. Trump reshaped the election map with large gains across rural America, most significantly from industrial Midwest counties where whites without a college education made up the majority. ____ 5. “Call it pink and blue America. ” Our senior correspondent on gender issues writes that the election shows how much men and women still talk past one another. A crowd of women attended Mrs. Clinton’s concession speech, to bid her an anguished farewell. “I know now that we live in two different Americas,” said one woman. “And one clearly doesn’t know the other at all. ” ____ 6. Global markets stabilized after an initial plunge. But uncertainty over Mr. Trump’s agenda, along with his distrust of trade pacts and climate change, raised international concerns. Vladimir V. Putin expressed hope for a “constructive dialogue” with Mr. Trump, whose lack of foreign policy experience and friendly positions toward Russia could play into the Kremlin’s hands. The Chinese president, Xi Jinping, sent a short congratulatory note, but made no mention of Mr. Trump’s promises to confront Beijing on trade and currency issues. ____ 7. Mr. Trump’s sweep was unforeseen, undercutting the credibility of much of the American news media and the enormous efforts put into polling and analysis. As with the “Brexit” referendum that astonished Britain a few months ago, much of the prominent coverage failed to capture the level of popular fury. The   host Stephen Colbert was swept up in a surreal, disconcerting broadcast when he and the guests on his live   special began realizing that Mr. Trump was winning. ____ 8. The Republicans will now control the White House and both houses of Congress, as well as more statehouses than at any point in history. Mr. Trump’s unanticipated strength in several key battleground states helped G. O. P. candidates fend off numerous Democratic challengers in the Senate. The Supreme Court will tilt right again, with one vacant seat almost certain to be filled by a conservative. And there’s the prospect of several more openings during Mr. Trump’s tenure. ____ 9. With the help of the   House and Senate, Mr. Trump’s campaign promise to repeal the Affordable Care Act could become reality. But it’s not clear how many of the promises he made on the campaign trail  —   like building a wall on the Mexican border or making sweeping changes to immigration policy  —   will be pursued. Here’s a look at where he stands on some of the issues that could fundamentally change the direction of the U. S. ____ 10. Finally, the presidential election wasn’t the only marker of the country’s changing attitudes. The national movement to legalize marijuana took a huge leap with the addition of three states  —   California, Massachusetts and Nevada  —   approving recreational use of the drug. With Alaska, Colorado, Oregon and Washington having previously approved recreational marijuana measures, Tuesday’s votes created a bloc that stretches across the West Coast. But the federal government’s ban on the drug continues, and a Trump White House may not be friendly to overturning it. Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p. m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a. m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a. m. Sundays. Want to look back? Here’s last night’s briefing. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes. com.