’  ’ ’   Faraday Future, the startup vying to put its electric vehicles on   the road in the next two years, has a new plan. ’ ”   The company was founded in 2014 and has faced money troubles,   supplier lawsuits, and   executive departures ever   since. Earlier this year executives told Business Insider that   it’s  lacking funding and leadership.    A   plant in Nevada still hasn’t emerged from the   ground, and the unveiling of its new vehicle earlier this year   was seen as a public relations disaster. Now, as Faraday tries to   turn things around, it is hoping to raise more than $1 billion   from new investors. ” ’   ”We are talking to investors,   providing   information. We’ve had a lot of   done in Gardena,”   said Stefan Krause, the new chief financial officer Faraday    Gardena is Faraday’’s headquarters in the   South Bay region of Los Angeles. ”Within the process it’s going   quite well. I’m quite satisfied.” The funds, Krause says, would   let Faraday deploy a   plan with five major goals: ’ ’  ’ ”   Krause says he’s mostly pitching private individuals. The company   has been notoriously secretive about its funding sources. Up   until now, it’s only publicly known investor was Jia Yueting, the   CEO of Chinese tech giant, LeEco  —   which itself is struggling   financially. ” ’   Jia, who goes by YT, acknowledged LeEco’’s financial woes last   fall and in the first half of 2017, LeEco saw its US workforce   shrink dramatically. The company, known in some circles as the   ”Netflix of China,” recently  amid the cash   crunch. ’ ’  ’ ”   The connection is not lost on Krause, who told Business Insider   that despite LeEco’s financial turmoil, Faraday Future is still   expected to receive funding from YT while Faraday rounds up new   investors. ” ’   YT, who stepped down as CEO from the publicly traded,     Leshi Internet Information and Technology  is also divesting from a number of startups in   which he has a stake, to help round up more cash. ’ ’   ”The initial funds will come from YT, through his own divestments   of some of his companies,” Krause said. ”So, that is money we are   expecting in July and we will expect the funds from the first   tranche of $500 million as we go into the third quarter,” he   said. ’ ’   Asked how many investors Faraday would need to reach $1 billion,   he said, ”We need around 10 to 15, but I cannot exclude that   there might be a Chinese investor coming with a larger amount of   money.” ’ ’   Faraday’s spokespeople later emphasized it could receive a larger   cash infusion from any of its potential investors. ’ ’   Krause also suggested that the company has caught the attention   of a ”significant” automaker that could acquire a stake in the   company, but declined to elaborate on what that means. ’ ”   For his part, Krause said he is confident in Faraday Future’s   prospects and emphasized in an earlier conversation with Business   Insider the company’s efforts to get its financial affairs in the   order for the long haul. Audits of the company’s books have been   completed for 2014 and 2015, and an audit of 2016’s books is   underway. ” ’   There are still plenty of unknowns. Faraday needs to secure that     investor cash, keep paying its bills, and overcome   negative public perceptions that have tarnished its name since   the company first emerged from stealth mode in January   2016.    That says nothing of actually getting down to the work of   building a car that it can sell. ’ ’Faraday Future, the startup vying to put its. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’