HONG KONG  —   Thousands of people marched in Hong Kong on Sunday to protest an expected decision by the Chinese government that would effectively block two newly elected politicians from taking their seats in the semiautonomous territory’s legislature. The decision, issued the next day, came after the prospective lawmakers, Sixtus Leung, 30, and Yau   25, made controversial remarks last month during an   ceremony in Hong Kong’s Legislative Council. Rather than say “China” in their oaths, they said “” a term that many find offensive, associating it with its use by Japan during its occupation of China during World War II. Ms. Yau also added an expletive to her oath. Relations between the Chinese mainland and Hong Kong, a former British colony of 7. 3 million, were already frayed by   demonstrations that erupted in 2014 in response to the Chinese government’s rejection of calls for free elections in the territory. The remarks by the two politicians, who have argued that Hong Kong should be independent from China, were widely seen as acts of defiance  —   and catalysts for a renewed political crisis. Where does the term ‘ ’ come from? Aoki Masaru, a Japanese Sinologist, argued that it originated in early Sanskrit transcriptions of Qin, the name of the dynasty that unified China more than 2, 000 years ago, according to a 2012 essay by the historian Joshua A. Fogel. Qin, pronounced “chin,” may have contributed to the country’s name in many Western languages. With the spread of Buddhism from India, and the translation of scriptures into Chinese, the word entered China and then Japan. Professor Fogel, who teaches at York University in Toronto, wrote that the Japanese used the name   for centuries, but especially from the 19th century through World War II. Before the founding of the Republic of China in 1912, the country had no official symbols or constitution, noted Xu Guoqi, a professor of history at the University of Hong Kong who is writing a book titled “The Idea of China. ” Its last imperial dynasty, the Qing, was established by Manchu invaders in the 17th century. Many Chinese nationalists and reformers in the final years of Qing rule  —   such as Liang Qichao and Zhang Taiyan  —   used the term “with no hidden bad meaning,” he said.   was one of many names these intellectuals used to refer to their country, said John Delury, a professor of Chinese studies at Yonsei University in Seoul, South Korea. Some of the intellectuals were involved in the   resistance and had gone into exile in Japan, he added. “They felt their country had been stolen for hundreds of years by an invading,   Chinese, Manchu people, and now they were trying to get it back,” Professor Delury said. They were searching for a name for the new nation, he said, that would differentiate it from the Qing dynasty. When did Chinese people begin to view the term   as a slur? The term is the name for China that has “most exercised Chinese opinion” throughout history, Professor Fogel wrote in his 2012 essay. Jan Kiely, a professor of Chinese studies at the Chinese University of Hong Kong, said in an email that “strong feelings” were stirred in Chinese people when the Japanese Empire used the word to refer to China during its incursions into Chinese territory, from the     War through World War II. For many Chinese today, Professor Kiely said,   recalls the sufferings of the occupation and references a Japanese imperial sense that the Chinese were inherently inferior. On Monday, Li Fei, the chairman of China’s parliamentary committee on the Basic Law, the   that governs Hong Kong, criticized Mr. Leung and Ms. Yau for using the term. “I especially condemn insults to the country and the nation,” Mr. Li told reporters in Beijing. “I hope Hong Kong people do not forget how Chinese were slaughtered by the Japanese invaders, and especially that the Japanese invaders committed huge crimes when they occupied Hong Kong. ” Professor Kiely said that public memory of World War II had surged in China over the past two decades in tandem with rising nationalism, thanks in part to a proliferation of   memorials, museums, exhibitions and documentaries about the war. If the term   can be perceived as a slur against Chinese people, why did the two Hong Kong politicians include it in their   remarks? Professor Delury said the politicians appeared to be making a satirical comparison between the Chinese government’s current control over Hong Kong and Japan’s invasion in the 20th century. He said it was significant that the remarks were made in the context of what is normally an   ceremony that is designed to indicate submission to the Chinese government. “All this historical stuff is very interesting, but at a certain level,” he said, “what they’re trying to do here is to register their refusal to obey the way they’re being told to obey. ” But the  ’ critics include people in Hong Kong who have pushed for democratic reforms in its political system. What explains that? After taking the oath in the Legislative Council, Mr. Leung attributed his pronunciation of China as “ ” to his local Hong Kong accent. But Ming Sing, a professor of social science at the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, said in an interview that some people in Hong Kong dismissed that explanation as “moral hypocrisy,” because Mr. Leung had previously made a point of attacking   legislators for their purported unwillingness to challenge the Chinese government. “He was perceived to cover up his real intent,” Professor Sing said. Professor Sing said that many people in Hong Kong also believed that the two politicians’ remarks at the   ceremony handed the Chinese government a pretext to reinterpret the Basic Law, which was negotiated before Britain returned the territory to Chinese rule in 1997. He said they fear the Basic Law may be interpreted “in a way that could undermine the rule of law and political freedoms in Hong Kong. ”