’  ’ ”   More than three dozen House Democrats want to shut off Jared   Kushner’s access to classified information in light of increased   scrutiny by the FBI over Kushner’s contacts with Russian   authorities. ” ’   House Democrats said they want Kushner’’s security clearance   revoked ”to protect national security.” ’ ’   The lawmakers outlined their concerns in a letter to White House   general counsel Don McGahn on Wednesday. ’ ’   ”While the various congressional and law enforcement   investigations continue, the White House should take all possible   steps to protect national security including immediately revoking   Mr. Kushner’’s security clearance,” the letter read. ’ ”   That request, if granted, would be an extraordinary step in the   ongoing congressional investigation of the Trump campaign’s   communications with Russia  —   and the FBI’s inquiry of Kushner’s   talks with the Kremlin, which have gained greater significance in   recent weeks. ” ’’ ”   Kushner, President Donald Trump’s    and top White House   adviser, was willing to go extraordinary lengths to establish a   secret line of communication between the Trump administration and   Russian government officials, The Washington Post  on Friday. ” ”   During the presidential transition period leading up to Trump’s   inauguration, Kushner held a series of meetings with the Russian   ambassador to the US, Sergey Kislyak, and the head of a Moscow   bank that was under US sanctions. ” ’   In talks with Kislyak in December, Kushner floated the   possibility of setting up a secure line of communication between   the Trump transition team and Russia  —   and having those talks   take place in Russian diplomatic facilities in the US,   essentially concealing their interactions from US government   scrutiny. ’ ’   ”Jared Kushner cannot be trusted,” said Rep. Don Beyer of   Virginia, who also signed the letter. ’ ”   The Trump administration has downplayed concerns about Kushner’s   talks with the Russians. US intelligence officials have said   Kushner is not accused of any wrongdoing. ” ’More than three dozen House Democrats want to. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’