’  ’ ”   Former FBI Director James Comey is expected to testify in a   public appearance before the Senate Intelligence Committee next   week that President Donald Trump pressured him to end the   bureau’s investigation into Michael Flynn, the former national   security adviser, according to multiple reports. ” ”   Comey has been cleared to testify by the Justice Department’s   special counsel, Robert Mueller, according to NBC News. After   Trump fired Comey earlier this month, Deputy Attorney General Rod   Rosenstein appointed Mueller to lead the criminal investigation   into whether Trump’s campaign colluded with Moscow during the   2016 election. ” ’   CNN on Wednesday  in reporting that he would   ”confirm bombshell accusations” that Trump ”pressured him to end   his investigation into a top Trump aide’’s ties to Russia.” ’ ”   The FBI is investigating Flynn’s contact with Russian Ambassador   Sergey Kislyak as part of its probe into Russia’s interference in   the 2016 election. The bureau interviewed Flynn about his   conversations with Kislyak in January. ” ’   After asking Vice President Mike Pence and Attorney General Jeff   Sessions to leave the room, Trump asked Comey during an Oval   Office meeting in February to let the Flynn investigation go,   according to a memo that Comey wrote that was read to    which first disclosed the memo. ’ ’’ ’   Weeks earlier, during a dinner on January 27, Trump . ’ ’ also reported on Wednesday that a source close to   Comey said he would confirm the Times report in his testimony. ’ ’   Comey wrote the memo soon after meeting with Trump on February   14, one day after Flynn was asked to resign for misleading the   vice president about his contacts with Kislyak. The memo ”was   part of a paper trail Mr. Comey created documenting what he   perceived as the president’’s improper efforts to influence an   ongoing investigation,” according to The Times. ’ ’   If it’’s found to be true that Trump asked Comey to drop the FBI’’s   investigation into Flynn, ”that would be very damaging,” Keith   Whittington, an expert on presidential impeachment and a politics   professor at Princeton University, told Business Insider earlier   this month. ’ ”   Comey’s memo fills in several details about Trump’s ties to   Russia and what the president’s motives were in firing Comey,   Whittington said. ” ’   Trump said days after firing Comey that he had been thinking   about ”this Russia thing” when he fired him. He called Comey a   ”showboat” and a ”grandstander” in an interview with NBC’’s Lester   Holt, and :   ”James Comey better hope that there are no ’’tapes’’ of our   conversations before he starts leaking to the press!” ’ ’Former FBI Director James Comey is expected to. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’