’  ’ ”   Uber’s head of finance is leaving the company, giving the     startup the tricky task of trying to   fill two   holes in its leadership team as it   grapples with  and bleeds hundreds of millions of dollars in red   ink every quarter. ” ”   Uber lost $708 million, excluding stock compensation expenses, in   the first three months of the year, an Uber spokesperson told   Business Insider. That’s a narrower loss than the $991 million   that Uber lost in the prior three months, though the company   did not provide a   figure. ” ’   Uber said its Q1 revenue increased 18% from the fourth quarter to   $3. 4 billion. ’ ”   The world’s most valuable   tech company began   disclosing selective financial results earlier this year,   providing more insight into the business of a company many   investors believe could be moving closer to a public   listing.  ” ”   Speculation about an IPO is likely to heat up with the latest   change in personnel. An Uber spokesperson told Business   Insider that the company it is launching a search for a CFO   with public company experience  —   a move that could kick off   Uber’s march to go public.  ” ’’ ”   Uber’s current head of finance, Gautam Gupta, is leaving Uber in   July to join an unspecified startup. Gupta had been with   Uber for four years, . Gupta is moving   to a startup in an unrelated field, where he’ll serve as COO,   Uber said. ” ”   News of Gupta’s departure and Uber’s financial results were first   reported by  ” ’   Uber dominates the nascent industry for     services, a business it pioneered. The San Francisco   company has been valued at as much as $69 billion by private   investors who envision Uber replacing taxi services throughout   the world and extending its reach into   delivery and   other businesses. ’ ”   But Uber’s path to glory has hit some major bumps this year, amid   reports of gender discrimination and sexual harassment, a string   of executive departures and an acrimonious lawsuit by Waymo, the     car firm spun out of Google, which has accused Uber   of stealing its technology.  ” ”   Uber  after Travis Kalanick,   the company’s embattled Chief Executive, acknowledged that he   needed leadership help.  ” ”Uber’s head of finance is leaving the company. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’