’  ’ ’   Eating healthy is only half the battle. ’ ”   Perhaps you’ve swapped your    breakfast for   avocado toast, gone cold turkey on M&Ms, and added salad to   your meal repertoire. ” ”   But if you haven’t started paying attention to what you’re   drinking, you may not have really made a dent. ” ”   Sweetened beverages like  can make up a surprising portion of the    each day, yet they don’t fill you up the   same way solid food does. ” ”   Those are some of the reasons that  a   nutritionist and outpatient dietitian at New York’s Memorial     Cancer Center, advises her clients who are trying   to lose weight to stop drinking beverages with calories. ” ’   ”If you drink 500 calories of liquid versus eating 500 calories   of food you’re going to feel much less satiated, which is one of   the reasons soda and sweetened drinks are such horrible things.   You don’t get a sense of fullness,” Anselmo tells Business   Insider. ’ ”   Researchers from Harvard University and Children’s Hospital in   Boston  in an   study that included nearly 50, 000   women. ” ’  ’ ’   When compared to participants who slashed their intake of   sweetened drinks like soda or fruit punch, those who started   drinking more sugary beverages gained weight and increased their   risk of developing Type 2 diabetes. The more their sweet drink   intake increased, the more weight they gained and the more their   disease risk went up. ’ ”   This is partially because the calories we get from sugary   beverages  as several   studies exploring people’s appetite   and eating behavior  have suggested. In fact, they may do the   opposite. ” ’   ”When drinking fluid calories, people often end up eating more   calories overall,”  a professor of nutrition at Purdue University   . ’ ”   The key takeaway: If you’re trying to lose weight, you can start   by reducing your intake of sugary drinks like juice, soda, and   fruit punch. Instead, wash down your meals with water. ” ’Eating healthy is only half the battle. Perhaps. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’