’  ’ ’   President Trump has announced via    that he will decide whether to leave the Paris Climate Agreement   soon, but multiple news sources are already reporting that   he has decided to pull the US out  ’ ’   If he does so, there could be numerous consequences for the   United States.  ’ ’   According to  leaving the Paris Agreement would   create an uncertainty in the economy over the future of both   fossil fuels and renewable energy resources. That would be   ”bad for businesses” and others hoping to invest in   renewable energy, and could spread to other countries’’ economies   as well. It would also lead to slower renewable energy   deployments, Sterman says. ’ ’   The costs of these energy sources are going down, but if the   Paris Agreement is cut, uncertainty will cause solar and wind to   be deployed more slowly, keeping their costs higher longer and   ultimately slowing the ongoing American transition to renewable   energy. ’ ’   Another repercussion of leaving the Paris Agreement, Sterman   says, is potential retaliation from other countries, which could   either leave the Paris Agreement as well, or punish the US   in some way for leaving the agreement. ’ ’   For example, Sterman says, ”It’’s not that   to imagine   a scenario where China, in response to the US pulling   out. ..implement[s] a carbon tax on all goods exported from the US   to China, and others nations could follow suit.” ’ ’   The prospect of this situation has led a number of fossil   fuel companies, including Exxon Mobil and coal miner group    to  urge the President to stay in the agreement.   According to Sterman, coal, gas, and oil companies know that   while they may be restricted slightly by the   Paris Agreement, they will lose their seat at the   international negotiating table  —   next to China, India, the EU,   and other world powers  —   if the US pulls out.  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   EPA administrator Scott Pruitt and White House Chief Strategist   Steve Bannon have backed Trump’s plan to leave the Paris   Agreement in the past. However, multiple news sources have   reported that Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner are in support   of the agreement. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’President Trump has announced via Twitter that. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’