’  ’ ”   Former US President Barack Obama on Thursday slammed President   Donald Trump’s decision to  on climate change,   implying his decision would hurt rather than help the US economy. ” ”   Obama didn’t directly name Trump in  but he made clear that he didn’t agree with   Trump’s decision. ” ’   ”Simply put, the private sector already chose a     future,” Obama said. ”And for the nations that committed   themselves to that future, the Paris Agreement opened the   floodgates for businesses, scientists, and engineers to unleash       investment and innovation on an   unprecedented scale.” ’ ”   The Paris Agreement, negotiated in part by the Obama   administration and signed by 195 countries in December 2015, aims   to cap the increase in the planet’s overall temperature at less   than 1. 5 degrees Celsius (2. 7 degrees Fahrenheit) above   preindustrial levels. ” ’   Trump said on Thursday afternoon in the Rose Garden that he would   be open to ”renegotiating and rejoining” the agreement, though   France, Germany, and Italy  afterward saying the agreement couldn’’t be   renegotiated. ’ ’   ”The nations that remain in the Paris Agreement will be the   nations that reap the benefits in jobs and industries created,”   Obama said. ”I believe the United States of America should be at   the front of the pack.” ’ ”   The US joins Syria and Nicaragua as the only countries that   aren’t signatories to the international agreement. Even North   Korea, one of the most isolated countries, has signed on. ” ’   But Obama added a hopeful sentiment. ’ ’   ”Even in the absence of American leadership, even as this   administration joins a small handful of nations that reject the   future, I’’m confident that our states, cities, and businesses   will step up and do even more to lead the way, and help protect   for future generations the one planet we’’ve got,” Obama said. ’ ’  ’ ”   The Climate Mayors, a group of 61 mayors of US cities,  on Thursday afternoon saying they   would commit to upholding the Paris Agreement despite the federal   government’s withdrawal. ” ’   ”If the president wants to break the promises made to our allies   enshrined in the historic Paris Agreement, we’’ll build and   strengthen relationships around the world to protect the planet   from devastating climate risks,” the group said. ’ ”   The Climate Mayors’ statement echoes a call in November by   Michael Bloomberg, the former New York City mayor, for the 128 US   mayors who are part of the Global Covenant of Mayors for Climate   and Energy to  in the federal government’s place. ” ”   John Kerry, who was a secretary of state under Obama, also issued   a forceful condemnation of Trump’s decision in an  on Thursday. ” ’   ”The president was not truthful with the American people today,   and the president who talked about putting ’’America first’’ has   now put America last,” Kerry said. ”This is an extraordinary   moment of fake news, because the economy he described is not the   economy of America.” ’ ’   Kerry added: ”He’’s made us an environmental pariah in the world,   and I think it is one of the most   moves I have   ever seen by any president in my lifetime.” ’ ’Former US President Barack Obama on Thursday. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’