’  ’ ”   WASHINGTON (AP)  —   The special counsel investigating possible ties   between President Donald Trump’s campaign and Russia’s government   has taken over a separate criminal probe involving former Trump   campaign chairman Paul Manafort, and may expand his inquiry to   investigate the roles of the attorney general and deputy attorney   general in the firing of FBI Director James Comey, The Associated   Press has learned. ” ”   The Justice Department’s criminal investigation into Manafort,   who was forced to resign as Trump campaign chairman in August   amid questions over his business dealings years ago in Ukraine,   predated the 2016 election and the counterintelligence probe that   in July began investigating possible collusion between Moscow and   associates of Trump. ” ”   The move to consolidate the matters, involving allegations of   kleptocracy of Ukrainian government funds, indicates that Special   Counsel Robert Mueller is assuming a broad mandate in his new   role running the sensational investigation. The expansiveness of   Mueller’s investigation was described to the AP. No one familiar   with the matter has been willing to discuss the scope of his   investigation on the record because it is just getting underway   and because revealing details could complicate its progress. ” ”   In an interview separately Friday with the AP, Deputy Attorney   General Rod Rosenstein acknowledged that Mueller could expand his   inquiry to include Attorney General Jeff Sessions’ and   Rosenstein’s own roles in the decision to fire Comey, who was   investigating the Trump campaign. Rosenstein, who appointed   Mueller as special counsel to take over the investigation, wrote   the memorandum intended to justify Trump’s decision to fire   Comey. Sessions met with Trump and Rosenstein to discuss Trump’s   decision to fire him despite Sessions’ pledge not to become   involved in the Russia case. ” ”   Rosenstein told the AP that if he were to become a subject of   Mueller’s investigation, he would recuse himself from any   oversight of Mueller. Under Justice Department rules, Mueller is   required to seek permission from Rosenstein to investigate   additional matters other than ones already specified in the   paperwork formally appointing Mueller. ” ’   ”I’’ve talked with Director Mueller about this,” Rosenstein said.   ”He’’s going to make the appropriate decisions, and if anything   that I did winds up being relevant to his investigation then, as   Director Mueller and I discussed, if there’’s a need from me to   recuse I will.” ’ ’   Peter Carr, a spokesman for Mueller, declined to comment on the   scope of the investigation. ’ ’   Mueller, who spent 12 years as FBI director and served under   Republican and Democratic presidents, was appointed as special   counsel following the May 9 firing of Comey, who is expected to   testify for the first time next week before the Senate. ’ ’  ’ ’   Mueller’’s assignment, detailed in a   order signed by   Rosenstein, covers the federal investigation into possible links   or coordination between Russia and associates of the Trump   campaign but also ”any matters that arose or may arise directly”   from the probe. It would also extend to any allegations of   perjury, witness intimidation or obstruction of justice uncovered   during the course of the investigation. ’ ”   As Mueller’s investigation begins, members of Congress are   intensely interested in its direction and scope. ” ’  ’ ”   The Justice Department began looking at Manafort’s work in   Ukraine around the beginning of 2014, as Ukraine’s president,   Viktor Yanukovych, was toppled amid protests of alleged   corruption and Russian influence. Business records obtained by   the AP show Manafort’s political consulting firm began working as   early as 2004 for clients that variously included a political   boss in Yanukovych’s party, a Ukrainian oligarch and Oleg   Deripaska, a Russian businessman and longtime ally of Russian   president Vladimir Putin. ” ”   A special counsel, by design, is constrained by the terms of his   appointment to avoid boundless and perpetually     investigations. In this case, though, Mueller’s mandate appears   fairly broad, said Samuel Buell, a former federal prosecutor and   criminal law professor at Duke University. ” ’   ”That investigation that’’s named in the appointment is already   one that has, as far as we can tell, a number of tentacles and   offshoots that involves conduct over a fairly lengthy period of   time involving a lot of people,” Buell said. ’ ”   He said he did not expect Mueller to seek Rosenstein’s approval   each time he wants to subpoena another new witness or pursue a   new   investigative thread. The more difficult   question would involve any allegations separate and apart from   Russia, he said. ” ’   ”This gives him the authority to pull on all kinds of string and   see where they lead him,” Buell said. ”As long as you’’re   following a string that’’s connected to the string of Russian   influence on the election  —   however that may have occurred,   whoever that may have involved  —   would seem to fall within that   appointment.” ’ ”   Manafort’s work in Ukraine continued at least through the   beginning of 2014, when Yanukovych’s government was ousted amid   protests of widespread corruption and his rejection of a European   trade deal in favor of one with Moscow. As the AP reported last   year, that work included covertly directing a lobbying campaign   on behalf of Ukraine’s   Party of Regions in   Washington. Following the AP’s reporting on emails in which   Manafort deputy Rick Gates was overseeing the work, two lobbying   firms involved in the project registered as foreign agents.   Manafort has not done so, and a spokesman for him has declined to   say if he will. ” ’WASHINGTON (AP)  —   The special counsel. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’