’  ’ ’UPDATE: HBO released a statement to  calling Maher’’s remarks ”completely inexcusable and   tasteless” and removing his comment from future airings of the   episode.  Shortly after, Maher :   “Friday nights are always my worst night of sleep because I’m up   reflecting on the things I should or shouldn’t have said on my   live show. Last night was a particularly long night as I regret   the word I used in the banter of a live moment. The word was   offensive and I regret saying it and am very sorry. ” ’ ’   Comic Bill Maher has never been one to filter what comes out of   his mouth, having been in countless controversies for what he’’s   said on his HBO show ”Real Time with Bill Maher,” and his   previous show ”” ’ ’   The latest dust up came on his show Friday night when   interviewing Republican Senator Ben Sasse. ’ ’   Sasse was on the show promoting his new book, “The Vanishing   American Adult: Our    Crisis and How to Rebuild a   Culture of ” when he told Maher he should visit his   state of Nebraska and ”work in the fields.”   Maher responded by saying, “Senator, I’m a house     .” Sasse   gave a nervous laugh as the audience applauded. ’ ’   Maher said what he said was just a joke. ’ ”   But people watching weren’t laughing as many tweeted their   disgust.  ” ” Warning: There’s explicit language in the video   below. ” ’ ’ ’But really,  has got to go. There are no explanations that make this acceptable. ’ ’ ’t’t’tUnacceptable. And the audience applauds! ?! So hurtful.  ’ ’ ’t’t’tToday is the day Bill Maher became president. ’t’t’ ’   And Chance the Rapper feels HBO should fire Maher: ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tPlease  Do Not Air Another Episode Of Real Time With Bill Maher. ’t’t’ ’   After getting off a plane from being on the show, Senator Sasse   took to Twitter to give his thoughts: ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tAm walking off a redeye from LAX. 3 reflections on 1. I’m a 1st Amendment absolutist. Comedians get latitude to cross hard lines. ’t’t’ ’ ’t’t’t2. But free speech comes with a responsibility to speak up when folks use that word. Me just cringing last night wasn’t good enough. (2of4?)  ’ ’ ’t’t’t3. Here’s what I wish I’d been quick enough to say in the moment: “Hold up, why would you think it’s OK to use that word? ...(3of4?)  ’ ’ ’t’t’t( 4of4)”. ..The history of the   is an attack on universal human dignity. It’s therefore an attack on the American Creed. Don’’t use it. ”  ’ ’     ’ ’UPDATE: HBO released a statement to The. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’