’  ’ ”   You can’t argue with the numbers, can you?    shares are up almost 60% since the beginning of the year, hitting     highs in the  $350 range, and CEO Elon Musk’s   electric carmaker has returned 1, 670% since the 2010 IPO. ” ’   The market cap, at more than $50 billion, is bigger than that of   General Motors, Ford, and Fiat Chrysler Automobiles. The Big   Three are now the Big Three plus one tiny carmaker in California   that investors think will take over the world. ’ ”   Tesla is also on the verge of  Tesla’s most hotly anticipated car since   the Model X SUV, which arrived three years late, beset with   production issues. ” ’   But despite all that, you can, of course, argue with the numbers    —   because the numbers are ridiculous and getting more so every   day. ’ ”   A flashback: About two years ago, when Tesla was trading above   $250 per share, a sensible thesis that all the automaker’s   immediate future growth was already priced in emerged. If you’d   heeded that wisdom, you would have been both accurate as far as   Tesla’s business goes  —   Tesla sold more cars in 2016 than 2015,   but not that much more. But you also would have missed out on the   big rally of early 2017. ” ’  ’ ’   This raises the obvious question, ”How did $100 per share of   growth arrive while the actual business improved only modestly?   (The company has posted only two profitable quarters in its   history, largely by selling   credits.) ’ ’   The answer is sort of complicated and simple at the same time. ’ ’   It’’s complicated because Tesla has become a car company that also   sells energy storage systems and in 2016 took over struggling   solar provider SolarCity. Oh, and there’’s chatter in the   analysts’’ community about how Tesla can create a      business by linking up its     Autopilot technology and the data it’’s gathering from autonomous   miles driven under the umbrella of a      operation known as the ”Tesla Network” or ”Tesla Mobility.”  ’ ”   Pointedly, this business doesn’t exist yet. Tesla is also talking   about pickup trucks and semis, but let’s not go there.  ” ”   Trying to figure out what all this is worth is immensely tricky,   and you could say that some bulls are pulling their valuations   out of places that aren’t fit to discuss at a family dinner. But   there’s a far simpler explanation for Tesla’s massive increase in   value: Investors aren’t spending well over $300 per share to buy   a claim on future profits, of which there are unlikely to be any   for half a decades  —   they’re buying a claim on a   future story. ” ”   Perhaps more accurately, investors are betting on future chapters   in Tesla’s story. The early part of the Tesla book has already   passed. If you bought in at any point in the past three years,   you overpaid monumentally relative to the true believers who took   a chance on Musk & Co. back when shares were at $25 and the   company was lucky to sell a few thousand cars a year.  ” ”   However, there’s a problem with that. Since roughly 2010, Tesla   has executed in such a way that it defied expectations, even as   it was serially overpromising and underperforming. Effectively,   all it had to do was stay in business. ” ”   Instead, it won Motor Trend’s Car of the Year award in 2013 for   the Model S sedan and grew its sales to 2016’s   mark of   around 80, 000  —   a decent jump over 2015 and more than double   2014. ” ’   At no point during this period did the company execute   particularly well. The Model S endured early production issues,   the Model X was plagued with production problems () there were   big recalls over piddly problems, and in   .  ’ ”   It’s not like Tesla wasn’t trying. The company was in a     mode the entire time  —   jamming hard to meet yearly production   goals. But the company was digging as deep as it   could just to fall short of its own guidance and   build cars that, while impressive in terms of performance,   weren’t initially up to par with the rest of the industry on   quality or reliability (they vastly exceeded it, however, on   brand loyalty, proof that people were buying the Tesla story   both on Wall Street and at Tesla retail stores).  ” ”   If Tesla were Nigel Tufnel’s guitar amp, the company would have   been turned up to 11 a long time ago. ” ’  ’ ”   There’s no 12, so Musk has decided to reinvent the amp . .. er,   Tesla factory. Transformative automation of the manufacturing   process will enable Tesla to transfer the enviable,   unrealized margin it gets for the Models S and X  —   around 20%  —     to the Model 3, a car that will be hard pressed to net 20% more   than it costs to build. ” ”   You could argue that Tesla’s present value, given its cost of   operation against its revenue, is at best zero and at worst a   negative number. That would be unfair because Tesla has physical   assets, intellectual property, and a measurable cash flow, as   well as vast goodwill in the brand. ” ”   But the market cap isn’t zero. It’s about $55 billion. So what   you’re buying now if you buy Tesla’s stock and its story is the   company’s ability to successfully defy its execution limits and   dramatically ramp up production in the future. The execution   needs to defy the laws of physics  —   and Musk knows it. ” ”   That’s why he’s of late become preoccupied with manufacturing. He   literally wants to reinvent automaking so Tesla can build a   million cars annually by 2020 and not have to do it in a place   governed by physical laws that are different from those in the   known universe. ” ”   I’ll concede that if he pulls it off, Tesla could legitimately be   valued well beyond what it is today. But even if he does pull it   off, it’s going to take more than a decade. And at its core,   Tesla remains a car company, constrained by all the same things   that constrain other, more established car companies.  ” ’   Every time this realization catches up with Tesla, it morphs into   something else: an energy company, a solar roof supplier, a   mobility company. But stories are easy to change. The laws of   physics are much harder. ’ ”   Tesla tends to be at its worst when it encounters basic   obstacles. It doesn’t meet its delivery guidance because it just   can’t bolt together enough vehicles. It faces recalls due to   simple components because it is located in California, distant   from the automotive supply chains of the Midwest and South. It   doesn’t make a profit and runs lean on cash, so it has to use   Wall Street as an ATM and periodically sell off chunks of itself,   as it has to Daimler and Toyota and . ” ”   Tesla is at its best when it’s actively pursuing Musk’s vision  —     to free humanity from its dependence on fossil fuels.   Essentially, to save the world. To a large extent, that’s what   has really made Tesla worth more than GM, Ford, and FCA.     isn’t in Detroit’s wheelhouse.  ” ”   But think about this: While Tesla has proven that a new car   company can be founded in America  —   something the auto industry   thought was impossible  —   it hasn’t come anywhere near saving the   world. The global market for electric cars is still only about   1%. Tesla always overpromised and   because it can   and because Musk thinks there’s nothing to gain from selling   80, 000 in 2016 or 800, 000.  ” ”   As long as Tesla is selling lots and lots of   cars someday, then it’s worth $50 billion today.   Investors are ignoring this, and it the short term, the risk that   will get burned by Tesla’s tendency to execute poorly will catch   up to them. ” ”You can’t argue with the numbers, can you? ...” ’’ ’’ ’’