’  ’ ”   Police in Mexico City disrupted a   operation in   on May 28, capturing several suspects and uncovering a new,   possibly positive development in the area’s drug trade. ” ’   After a shooting that left several people wounded at the southern   edge of Tepito  —   a rough neighborhood known as   —   200 police officers were dispatched, shutting   down streets and  alleys   and buildings in pursuit of suspects who fled the scene. ’ ’   Raiding one nearby building, police apprehended   —   eight adults and two   minors  —   and seized several black bags and UberEats backpacks,   all full of marijuana, as well as several muffins that apparently   had marijuana in them. ’ ’   The alleged dealers  in Tepito and   used bicycles to distribute drugs in the upscale neighborhoods of   Zona Rosa and Cuauhtemoc, including the popular Condesa district. ’ ’   For its part, UberEats  —   which provides home delivery of food in   Mexico City and is run by the   company Uber  —   denied   any involvement in the incident,  Mexican   news site Excelsior that delivery people using the service ”are   proprietors and solely responsible for the use of their   backpacks.” ’ ’  ’ ’   The company said it ”condemns any act that risks people’’s health   or safety” and that it was ”ready to work with authorities in   their investigation.” ’ ’   Drug dealers and traffickers using legitimate business dealings   to obscure their illicit trade is nothing new. In the 1990s,   Sinaloa kingpin Joaquin ”El Chapo” Guzman opened a cannery where     —   in cans labeled ”Comadre Jalapeños”  —   and   shipped to the US. ’ ’   In this instance, however, drug dealers adopting delivery   services may be a positive development for Mexico City,   particularly the area of Tepito, where violence and crime are   longstanding problems. ’ ’   Delivering drugs right to the buyers would take the illicit   transactions out of public space, meaning both buyer and seller   would spend less time exposed, and thereby lessen the potential   for violent incidents. ’ ’  ’ ’Police in Mexico City disrupted a. ..’ ’Your Editor (online now)’ ’’ ’’ ’’