’  ’ ’   President Donald Trump is reportedly considering visiting London   later in the week,  on Sunday. ’ ’   The visit would be intended to show solidarity with Britain in   the wake of a string of terrorist attacks that rocked the London   Bridge area on Saturday evening. ’ ’   The attacks began when a white van mowed down pedestrians on   London Bridge. Shortly after, three attackers emerged and began   stabbing people in Borough Market. ’ ’   The attacks left seven dead and 48 injured.   people are   still in critical condition. ’ ’   The attackers were all fatally shot. The investigation is still   ongoing, and the names of the suspects have not been released   yet. ’ ’   The brutal London Bridge and Borough Market attacks are the third   terror incident in the UK in three months. ’ ’   In March, Khalid Masood mowed over pedestrians   on Westminster Bridge, killing four, including an unarmed   police officer, and injuring 50. In May,    Salman   Ramadan Abedi carried out a suicide bombing at Manchester Arena   following an Ariana Grande concert.   people,   including children and adults, were killed, and 119 were   injured.  ’ ”   Trump’s possible visit to London in the wake of Saturday’s   attacks was widely criticized on Twitter, and many said it would   put more pressure on security personnel who are already occupied   with managing fallout from the terror attacks. ” ’   The president was also reportedly asked to refrain from   visiting London this week, with a City Hall source  The Times’’   Sam Coates that ”it might not be the best time.” ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tExtra Trump visit presumably last thing security services need to handle  ’ ’ ’t’t’tJust what the police need  ’ ’ ’t’t’tLondon needs a Trump visit this week like it needs a shot to the head  ’ ’   If Trump visits later in the week, his appearance would come   while the UK was in the midst of an election. ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’t’Later in week. .’ Does Trump know we have an election on Thursday?  ” ’   UK Prime Minister Theresa May made a  after the   attacks and the internet services companies who give it ”the safe   space it needs to breed.” ’ ’   London Mayor Sadiq Khan said on Twitter that ”we are all shocked   and angry today  —   but this is our city. We will never let these   cowards win and we will never be cowed by terrorism.” ’ ’   Trump initially used news of the attacks to tout his travel ban,   which has so far been blocked by the courts. ”We need to be   smart, vigilant and tough. We need the courts to give us back our   rights. We need the Travel Ban as an extra level of safety!”   Trump  ’ ’   On Sunday, he revisited his frequent campaign against ”political   correctness” and  the US must   ”get down to the business of security for our people.” ’ ’   He also criticized Khan for his response to the attacks. ”At   least 7 dead and 48 wounded in terror attack and Mayor of London   says there is ”no reason to be alarmed!” Trump . Khan did   not say there was no reason to be alarmed at any point. ’ ’President Donald Trump is reportedly. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’