’     ’ ’SAN JOSE, California  —   Apple just kicked off its   annual conference for developers and app creators, WWDC. ’ ”   Apple will talk about the improvements it’s made to the software   on iPhones, iPads, and Macs  —   improvements most users will start   to see this fall.  ” ”   We’re also expecting that Apple  including updated MacBooks and a   new iPad Pro.  ” ”   Business Insider will be at the San Jose McEnery Convention   Center covering the event live, and we’ll be providing all of our   thoughts and notes below. ” ”   If you’d like to follow along,  on Apple’s web browser, Safari, and on   Microsoft’s Edge web browser for Windows 10. Apple TV users will   also be able to tune in. ” ’   This post is continually updating.  ’ ”[10:08] WWDC officially kicks off with a   funny video showing a new employee accidentally deleting   everybody’s apps. The joke is that the world is totally lost   without iPhone and iPad apps. ” ’[10:11] Tim Cook officially takes the stage   to welcome everybody to WWDC. Calls San Jose ”the heart of   Silicon Valley.” ”This is going to be the best and biggest WWDC   ever.” ’ ’   16 million registered Apple developers. 5300 WWDC attendees,   ”largest group ever.”  ’ ’  ’ ’    Cook highlights a    developer with 5 apps in the   App Store, attending WWDC from Australia. And an      developer from Japan with her first app published to the App   Store earlier this year. ’ ’[10:14] Tim Cook says he has six   announcements coming today. First up, Amazon is coming to the TV   app and all Apple TVs with Amazon Prime video. It’’s a thawing of   what was a testy relationship between the two tech giants. Cook   teases that ”we’’ll hear more about Apple TV this year.” ’ ”[10:16] On to Apple Watch. Apple pulled up   VP Kevin Lynch to look at the new watch features. There’s a new   Siri watch face. It looks sweet and uses AI to pull up what you   might want to use when you want to use it. There’s also a trippy   kaleidoscope face, and a new watch face with Toy Story   characters.  ” ’     ’ ’[10:20] Apple is putting a lot of work into   making Apple Watch easier for athletes and workout warriors to   use. ”The pool swim thing is very popular,” Lynch said. Other   workout updates: add new workouts with a    button,   for those people who bike and swim, for example, in the same   workout.  ’ ”[10:22] Apple Watch now integrates   with certain gym machines that have NFC capability. It’s   supported by LifeFitness, Cybex, Matrix, TechnoGym, Schwinn,   StarTrac, and StairMaster machines. Wonder which machines Apple   puts in its private gyms.  ” ”[10:24] Apple’s also redesigned the music   app on the Apple Watch. The product demo is making the Siri Watch   face look really useful.  ” ”   Personally, I’m still doubtful about reading or looking at photos   on the Apple Watch. There seems to be a lot of improvements that   make starting a workout less fiddly.  ” ’[10:27] Apple says the Watch will supports   native core Bluetooth  —   which means that Apple Watch can now   connect directly to a Dexcom Glucose monitor and other Bluetooth   accessories instead of going through the iPhone.  ’ ’     ’ ’[10:27] Tim Cook is back, and he says the   Mac is the ”heart and soul” of Apple. He’’s pulling up Craig   Federighi on stage to talk about the Mac.  ’ ’[10:29] The new version of MacOS is called macOS   High Sierra.  ’ ’  ’ ’[10:31] Big cheer for Safari blocking   autoplaying video and a new privacy feature called   Intelligent Tracking Prevention.  ’ ’[10:32] Now ’ ’[10:34] Big cheer for new file   system, AFS, on macOS. Previous coverage of Apple File System   . ’ ’   ”Graphics are all about the GPU,” Federighi says. ”GPU has been   the performance superstar over the last decade.” Apple talking   about its graphics framework, Metal, which is now called Metal 2. ’ ’[10:38] ”Metal is not just about graphics, we’’re   also using it for machine learning,” Federighi said. ’ ’   And now Metal works with external graphics, for graphics cards   that plug in through the MacBook Thunderbolt ports. The Apple dev   kit that Apple announces uses AMD Radion RX 580, plugs in   through   and it works with VR.  ’ ’  ’ ’[10:42] Now we’’re talking about new iMac   updates. iMacs getting new ports, faster processors, more   memory, improved screen, and new graphics cards. Now mid range   iMacs get Radeon Pro 550 and 560, which Apple says has 3x   faster graphics. Apple says the   Retina iMac is the ”most   popular desktop for pro customers.”  ’ ’   Apple seems really serious about people making VR content and   stuff on Mac. Last year, Oculus founder Palmer Luckey said it was   impossible to do serious VR work on a Mac.  ’ ”[10:45] Now Apple’s doing a demo with Industrial   Light and Magic, the studio behind a lot of Star Wars stuff. I   can’t believe Apple is doing an extended VR demo.  ” ’[10:49] One of the iMac models got a price   cut as well.  ’ ’[10:51] Apple also updated its MacBook with   newer processor, faster storage, faster graphics on the     MacBook Pro, and a new MacBook Pro model that costs $1299. The   MacBook Air also got a small chip update.  ’ ’  ’ ’[10:52] Apple’’s giving a sneak peek of a new   iMac Pro, with a new keyboard, and keyboard, and it has a space   grey finish, and a 5k screen. Apple says it will be the ”most   powerful Mac ever” and it will have workstation chips and other     chips. The Mac Pro will have an   Xeon Processor,   and will have Radeon Vega graphics, and up to 128GB of memory. It   will have 4 Thunderbolt 3 ports, and   ethernet.  ’ ”[10:57] Most important is the   price. A starting configuration starts at $4999. Here’s that   config:  ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ”    [11:00] Now we’re on to iOS 11, the   software that runs on iPhones. Apple is going to store iMessages   on the cloud, and they remain    encrypted. Also, Apple   wants to you to pay your friend with Apple Pay in iMessage. It’s   called Apple Pay cash.  ” ’[11:02] Siri has two new voices and it can   now do translation  —   and that could be really cool when   paired with the AirPods.  ’ ’[11:04] Now Federighi is talking about how   machine learning is behind Siri.  ’ ”[11:06] There’s also a good bit of camera   improvements in the latest version of iOS too. It’s smart because   the camera is one of Apple’s biggest advantages.  ” ’  ’ ”[11:08] Apple has redesigned Control Center, and   has backed all the shortcuts into a single page. But it still   doesn’t fix what I want from Control Center, like low power mode.   Notifications has also been tweaked.  ” ’[11:11] ’ ’[11:14] Apple Maps now can   direct you through a mall. And there’’s a new feature called ”Do   Not Disturb While Driving” and it will silence notifications   while you’’re driving.  ’ ’[11:17] Now we’’re talking about HomeKit,   products that work with Apple home automation software. We’’re   talking speakers  —   Apple seems to be able to do a lot of Sonos   features with compatible series. Apple calls this ”AirPlay 2.” ’ ”    [10:20] Phil Schiller, SVP, is now on   stage to talk App Store. The big announcement is a App Store   redesign. It looks like the Apple News app. There’s a new   emphasis on games and big images.  ” ’  ’ ’    ’ ”[11:27] Now we’re getting a demo of the new   App Store. It looks nice but I’m not sure how it fixes the   underlying problems with the App Store. The front page first app   is going to get a lot of downloads, but the long tail apps might   not have as much luck. ” ’[11:30] Back to talking about machine   learning again. ’ ’[11:32] Apple just revealed ARKit, a new   framework for making apps that use computer vision to identify   surfaces and add objects and manipulate the real   world. ’ ’  ’ ”[11:35] Third parties have already   experimented with it  —   Ikea, Lego Batman, Pokemon Go, and Wingnut   AR. Now they’re playing a tabletop game through an iPad. This   could be a very big deal.  ” ”[11:39] Now back to Tim Cook. The fifth   announcement is coming now  —   and we’re going to talk iPad.   There’s a new iPad Pro with a 20% larger screen at 10. .   There’s also a new   iPad. The new iPad can display a     onscreen keyboard, and the new Smart Keyboard   attachment will also be  .  ” ’[11:43] Apple is lot of time talking about how   the screen has been improved. The screen has a higher refresh   rate, for example. Apple calls this feature ProMotion, which kind   of sounds like ”promotion” to me.  ’ ”[11:46] These new iPads will be equipped   with a   CPU and a   GPU. Apple says these new   devices have Apple’s most advanced display  —   better than the   current iPads, iPhones, and Macs.   battery life, and it   uses the same camera as the iPhone 7.  ” ’  ’ ”[11:49] Now we’re getting a demo from a British   person who is going through a   app.  ” ”[11:50] They’re pricey  —   $649 for the   10.  iPad Pro. Now there’s a dock like the MacOS dock in the   new version of the iPad software.  ” ”[11:54] There’s also a new app switcher in the   iPad ssoftware, and you can drag and drop images and URLs.   There’s even an new   app. We’re getting a demo of all   the new features that make the iPad feel more like a   laptop.  ” ’[11:59] And your iPad can also be your document   scanner too with a new camera mode.  ’ ’  ’ ’[12:04] The pencil plus the new scanning   features makes the iPad seem way better for business use than   before.  ’ ’ SAN JOSE, California  —   Apple just. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’