’  ’ ’   In the weeks leading up to the Fyre Festival,  show a   management team frantically trying to figure out both housing and   bathroom situations before guests were set to arrive.   ’ ’  ’ ’   An email exchange with the subject line ”RED       SHOWER SHIPPING” shows organizers trying to stretch funds as far   as possible as they dealt with the unexpectedly high cost of   shipping toilets to the island. The email exchange began on   April 3, a mere three weeks before the festival was scheduled to   begin. ’ ’   ”We have to move quick on this or we are in a       place, lol.   Sorry,” one organizer, who clearly understood the gravity of the   situation, said. ’ ’   As prices ballooned, senior members of the team looking to cut   costs asked if it was possible to cut down on the number of   toilets shipped to the island to half the recommend number, based   on the formulas given by vendors. ’ ’   ”If we cut it in half, we would just have double the line wait?   I’’m seeing some sites that say we could get away with 75   toilets,” the senior member wrote, linking to resources meant for   putting on music festivals without overnight accommodations. ’ ”   Another organizer in the exchange, remarking on the fact   that the event’s caterer, Starr Catering Group, had pulled out,   joked,  ” ’   In another exchange on April 20 titled ”***DO NOT IGNORE***   HOUSING UPDATE & ACTION ITEMS FOR YOU” a consultant working   on accommodations relayed the bad news that there was not enough   space for the number of tickets sold. ’ ’   He recommended cutting ”the 50 lowest paying customers” as well   as 130 members of staff and security from the first weekend. ’ ’  ’ ’   As it looked clear that the ”luxury villas” influencers were   promised were unlikely to materialize, the consultant tried to   get Fyre’’s marketing team to dampen expectations and become more   transparent with VIP guests. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’ If you have information on the Fyre Festival you wish to   share with Business Insider confidentially, please contact this   reporter at dgreen@businessinsider. com. ’ ’In the weeks leading up to the Fyre Festival. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’