’  ’ ’   Legal experts were taken back by the level of potential     that President Donald Trump  about the controversial travel ban   currently blocked by the courts. ’ ’   Trump, following the London terror attacks over the weekend,   tweeted on Monday: ”I am calling it what we need and what it is,   a TRAVEL BAN!” He then took aim at his own Justice Department,   saying it ”should have stayed with the original Travel Ban, not   the watered down, politically correct version” it will likely   soon be arguing in favor of before the Supreme Court. ’ ’   He also tweeted that the DOJ ”should ask for an expedited   hearing of the watered down Travel Ban before the Supreme Court  —     & seek much tougher version!” And he called the judicial   system ”slow and political.” ’ ”   Both supporters and opponents of the president’s travel ban were   stunned by what they saw as comments that could hurt the   DOJ’s defense of the executive order. ” ’   Neal Katyal,  arguing against the ban in court,   tweeted a screenshot of Trump’’s Monday morning tweets, commenting   that it’’s ”kinda odd to have the defendant in Hawaii v. Trump   acting as our  . We don’’t need the help but will take   it!” Ryan Goodman, a former Department of Defense lawyer in   President Barack Obama’’s administration, said the tweet calling   the second order ”watered down”    ”unconstitutional intent.” ’ ’   And Jack Goldsmith, a lawyer in President George W. Bush’’s   administration, Harvard law professor, and cofounder of Lawfare,   highlighted a point he made in February after Trump took aim at   the judges presiding over travel ban litigation. Goldsmith wrote   then that Trump might be intentionally weakening his case to set   ”the scene to blame judges after an attack that has any   conceivable connection to immigration.” ’ ’   ”If Trump loses in court he credibly will say to the American   people that he tried and failed to create tighter immigration   controls,” .   ”This will deflect blame for the attack. And it will also help   Trump to enhance his power after the attack.” ’ ’   Perhaps  came from George Conway, a prominent lawyer who is   married to top Trump adviser Kellyanne Conway.  ’ ’   The lawyer, who withdrew himself from consideration for a top   Justice Department job,    that Trump’’s statements ”may make some [people] feel   better, but they certainly won’’t help” the solicitor general’’s   office get a majority decision in the Supreme Court, ”which is   what actually matters.” ’ ’   ”Sad,” he added. ’ ’   He    explaining his views and clarifying that he ”VERY, VERY STRONGLY”   supports Trump, his administration, policies, the executive order   itself, ”and of course, my wonderful wife.” But he seemed to   plead with Trump to stop tweeting about the ban. ’ ’   ”Every sensible lawyer in [the White House Counsel’’s office] and   every political appointee at DOJ [would] agree with me (as some   have already told me). The [point] cannot be stressed enough that   tweets on legal matters seriously undermine Admin agenda and   POTUS  —   and those who support him, as I do, need to reinforce   that [point] and not be shy about it.” ’ ”   Trump didn’t seem to follow that advice, tweeting again about the   executive order later Monday night.  ” ’   ”That’’s right, we need a TRAVEL BAN for certain DANGEROUS   countries, not some politically correct term that won’’t help us   protect our people!” . ’ ’   Renowned lawyer and Harvard professor Alan Dershowitz told   Business Insider on Tuesday that Trump’’s continued persistence in   going against the wishes of his own legal team is an   experience Dershowitz has had ”over and over again with   clients.” ’ ’   ”You tell them not to talk to the press, you tell them not to   call somebody and talk to them, they do,” he said. ”When you have   a powerful person  —   I represent many powerful people  —   they don’’t   listen to their lawyers. They think that they know a lot.” ’ ’   Dershowitz said it’’s clear Trump believes his tweeting was at a   major reason for his electoral victory in November, and he’’s   loathe to abandon the habit. Indeed, on Tuesday morning,   Trump tweeted that ”the FAKE MSM” was ”working so hard trying to   get me not to use Social Media.” ’ ’   ”I think there is a sense that he got where he got by tweeting,”   Dershowitz said. ”And how dare his lawyers tell him not to.   They’’re just too cautious and too watery and he’’s going to do his   own thing.” ’ ’   ”And then of course . ... the clients go ’’why didn’’t you stop me!   Why didn’’t you stop me from doing that. Why didn’’t you tell me   not to! ’’” Dershowitz said. ”So I think it’’s a situation where the   most powerful person in the world is not going to be told   what to do by his lawyers.” ’ ’   The revised travel ban  from   Sudan, Iran, Somalia, Yemen, Syria, and Libya  from entering the country for 90 days while the   administration reviews its visa policies. It also bars all   refugee entry for 120 days. It has been blocked by federal   courts, and the Trump administration has appealed to the Supreme   Court. ’ ’  ’ ’   In upholding a nationwide block on the order, the 4th US Circuit   Court of Appeals  ”drips with religious intolerance, animus, and   discrimination.” ’ ’   The Trump administration had withdrawn its initial travel ban  —     which did not make clear that existing visa holders could enter   the country and also included Iraq on the list of banned   countries  —   after it too was blocked by the courts. ’ ”   Trump’s tweets point in a different direction than what   his own DOJ lawyers argued in the case, as the Justice   Department has tried to distance itself from the original order   in defending the new one. Trump has already seen his past   statements, and those of his surrogates, used against him in   court, particularly his December 2015 call for a temporary   suspension of Muslims entering the US. ” ”   The Justice Department lawyers defending the order have   repeatedly called for Trump’s statements not to be considered   when ruling on its legality, instead asking the judges to focus   on the text of the document. But that strategy has not proven   effective yet, as the courts have taken Trump’s statements   into consideration. ” ’   Additionally, the lawyers have tried to create distance between   the first executive order and the one that replaced it, which   likely wasn’’t helped by Trump’’s tweets about its ” ”   nature. ’ ’   But Dershowitz said he believes the latest tweets won’’t be a   detriment to a Supreme Court case  —   namely because he didn’’t   write the following two words: ”Muslim ban.” He believes that   Trump’’s statements should not be considered in evaluating the   executive order. If Trump’’s statements are the reason for the   travel ban being ruled unconstitutional, Dershowitz said that   creates a scenario where a future president can present the   exact same document and have it deemed legal if that leader did   not use the same language in relation to the order. ’ ’   ”You can’’t judge a statute by what people say about it,” he said.   ”You have to judge it by its words. And I think the Supreme Court   will ultimately come to realize that.” ’ ’   ”But, Trump’’s not helping,” he added. ’ ”   And as it’s become apparent to Dershowitz, Trump’s team is   desperately trying to get him to stop shooting himself in the   foot. ” ’   ”I think there are people in the White House  —   wouldn’’t be   surprised if [Kellyanne] Conway is one of them  —   who are trying   everything to try and get him to stop tweeting,” he said,   pointing to George Conway’’s message as one ”that gets to him.” ’ ’   ”At least one would think so,” he added. ”Because they have to be   trying their best to stop this. And so far, they haven’’t   succeeded.” ’ ’Legal experts were taken back by the level. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’