’  ’ ’   The lawyers of two Twitter users whose accounts were blocked   by President Donald Trump are demanding Trump unblock their   clients, accusing the president of violating their First   Amendment rights. ’ ’   The @realDonaldTrump account blocked the two users this year   after they posted tweets mocking and criticizing the president,   the lawyers say. ’ ’   ”This Twitter account operates as a ’’designated public forum’’ for   First Amendment purposes, and accordingly the     blocking of our clients is unconstitutional,” the nonprofit   Knight First Amendment Institute wrote  to Trump on Tuesday.  ’ ’   ”We ask that you unblock them and any others who have been   blocked for similar reasons,” it said. ’ ”   One of the users cited in the letter, Holly O’Reilly, had her   account blocked after posting a  to one of Trump’s tweets last month, according to   the letter. ” ’   In one tweet, she promoted the March for Truth, an     protest she said she helped organize. In another, she   posted a GIF of Pope Francis appearing uncomfortable   standing next to Trump, with the caption, ”This is pretty much   how the whole world sees you.” ’ ’   The other user, Joe Papp, was blocked   for a tweet of his that contained the hashtag   ”#fakeleader,” the institute said. ’ ’   In a  Knight Institute executive director Jameel Jaffer   acknowledged the uncharted legal territory his letter   was entering. ’ ’   ”Though the architects of the Constitution surely didn’t   contemplate presidential Twitter accounts, they understood that   the President must not be allowed to banish views from public   discourse simply because he finds them objectionable,” Jaffer   said. ’ ’   ”Having opened this forum to all comers, the President can’t   exclude people from it merely because he dislikes what they’re   saying.” ’ ’  ’ ”   Whether the Knight Institute’s argument would stand a chance in   court is a matter for debate  —   and First Amendment attorneys are   split on the issue. ” ”   Part of the issue hinges on whether Trump’s personal social   media account amounts to a   public forum,   like an open   meeting. The Knight Institute said in   its letter that its arguments also apply to the president’s   official @POTUS account. ” ’   ”Frankly, I think that’’s somewhat of an open question that   needs to be resolved by the courts,” First Amendment lawyer Lisa   Zycherman of Davis Wright Tremaine LLP told Business Insider. ’ ’   ”Once you become an elected official, your social media account   is by an extension a forum for your constituents to engage with   you,” she said. ’ ”   But Marc Randazza, a First Amendment lawyer with the Randazza   Legal Group, said a president’s social media account isn’t a   public forum, making the Knight Institute’s argument meritless. ” ’   ”I’’m very expansionist when it comes to First Amendment rights,”   Randazza told Business Insider. ”But this is a little bit of an   overreach to say it’’s a First Amendment violation to block a   critic on Twitter.” ’ ”   Randazza also countered the comparison of Trump’s Twitter   account to a town hall, opting for a different metaphor for the   president’s actions. ” ’   ”If somebody was talking to him and he stuck his   fingers in his ears and said, ’’La la la, I’’m not   listening to you,’’ that’’s not a First Amendment violation   either,” he said. ’ ’   ”You don’’t have a right to be listened to. You have a right to   speak,” he said. ’ ’   In a message to the Wall Street Journal, Ken Paulson, dean   of media and entertainment at Middle Tennessee State University,   called the Knight Institute’’s argument ”novel and   ambitious,” but admitted it was ”a tough sell” legally. ’ ’   ”I do think municipalities that establish Facebook pages and   invite citizen input are in fact establishing public forums, but   I’m not sure that Donald Trump’s brief bursts of opinion are the   same thing,”  according to The Journal. ’ ’The lawyers of two Twitter users whose. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’