’  ’ ”   President Donald Trump’s  backing the diplomatic isolation of Qatar by   several Gulf nations seem to depart from his own State   Department’s stance on the issue. ” ’   On Monday, the governments of Saudi Arabia, the United Arab   Emirates, Egypt, and Bahrain announced they had severed   diplomatic relations with Qatar. ’ ’   Secretary of State Rex Tillerson was quick to urge   representatives of each country to ”sit down together and address   these differences” and said the US thinks it’’s important that the   Gulf Cooperation Council, which includes Qatar as well as Saudi   Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, and Bahrain to ”remain   unified.” ’ ’   Tillerson also said he doesn’’t think the diplomatic isolation of   Qatar would have ”any significant impact, if any impact at all”   on the ”fight against terrorism in the region or globally.” ’ ”   But Trump hit Twitter on Tuesday morning to deliver a message   that stood in stark contrast to the measured calm of Tillerson’s   statements. ” ’’ ’   In a series of tweets, Trump appeared to take credit for the     move. He visited Saudi Arabia last month and met   with some Gulf leaders. ’ ’   ”During my recent trip to the Middle East I stated that there can   no longer be funding of Radical Ideology,” Trump .   ”Leaders pointed to Qatar   look!” ’ ’   Trump    that it was ”so good” to see his Saudi Arabia visit ”already   paying off.” ’ ’   ”They said they would take a hard line on funding . .. extremism,   and all reference was pointing to Qatar. Perhaps this will be the   beginning of the end to the horror of terrorism!” Trump tweeted. ’ ”   Before he started tweeting about Qatar, Trump made clear that   it’s his message voters should rely on to convey how he really   feels. ” ’   ”The FAKE MSM is working so hard trying to get me not to use   Social Media,” he    in reference to the mainstream media. ”They hate that I can get   the honest and unfiltered message out.” ’ ’   But Trump’’s remarks stand in contrast even to his own previous   comments on Qatar. He told the emir last month that ”our   relationship is extremely good” with the country. ’ ’   State Department officials reinforced this message on Tuesday. ’ ’   ”Our relationship with Qatar is one that’’s strong,” State   Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert  at a press briefing Tuesday afternoon. ”We   continue to cooperate with Qatar and other countries in the   region in the fight against terrorism.” ’ ’   She continued: ”We recognize that Qatar has made great efforts to   try to stop financing of terror groups . .. However, let me make   this clear: they have made progress, but they still have work to   do.” ’ ’   When asked about the apparent contradiction between Trump’’s   statements and the State Department’’s stance, Nauert said   Secretary of State Tillerson has been clear in the past that   Trump’’s tweets are ”serving the president pretty well.” ’ ’   ”The secretary says, ’’I don’’t intend to advise him on how to   communicate. That’’s up to him,’’” Nauert said. ’ ’   Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, gave a similar    to   reporters during his press briefing Tuesday. ’ ’   ”The president is the most effective messenger on his agenda and   I think his use of social media . .. gives him an opportunity to   speak straight to the American people, which has proved to be a   very effective tool,” Spicer said. ’ ”   But Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Bob Corker   appeared visibly shocked by Trump’s words Tuesday morning when   reporters asked him to comment. Corker  before asking when the president   had posted the tweets. ” ’   ”The president?” the Tennessee Republican asked. ”I want to go   back and see specifically what he has said.” ’ ’   ”Our general stance as a nation has been that these things ebb   and flow and they come up from time to time but we’’ve worked with   all the countries,” . ’ ”President Donald Trump’s statements backing the. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’