’  ’ ’   Former FBI Director James Comey will testify Thursday before the   Senate Intelligence Committee  —   his first public statement since   President Donald Trump  him last month. ’ ”   Comey’s ouster has prompted more than a few comparisons between   the ongoing   investigations and the Watergate   scandal of the 1970s. ” ’   Both situations involve a   of the Democratic National   Committee, the firing of top government investigators, and   accusations that the president obstructed justice. ’ ’   Comey’’s testimony wouldn’’t be the first time a leader of the FBI   provided evidence of presidential impropriety  —   the deputy   director of the FBI during the Nixon administration, Mark Felt,   turned out to be ”Deep Throat,” the key anonymous source in the   reporting that cracked open Watergate. ’ ”   Last month, reports emerged that Trump had asked Comey, who was   leading the top   agency’s investigation into   whether Trump campaign officials colluded with the Russian   government to influence the 2016 election, to  into Trump’s former national security   adviser, Michael Flynn. ” ’   Since those reports  —   and  saying Trump asked top intelligence officials to   publicly deny that any collusion had occurred  —   comparisons   between Watergate and the scandal consuming the current White   House have become increasingly common. ’ ’  ’ ’   And while it could be months before FBI investigators determine   whether any wrongdoing occurred, Julian Zelizer, a professor of   history and public affairs at Princeton University, says   Watergate can teach us a lot about the current moment. ’ ’   Zelizer says that, as became true in Watergate, the most   important question right now may not concern the ongoing   investigations, but how the president has reacted to them  —   a   question Comey is likely to . ’ ’   ”The original investigation of the original crime is often less   important than how the president responds to that,” Zelizer told   Business Insider. ”Does he abuse his power? Does he try to   obstruct? How does he handle the scandal?” ’ ’   Congress never determined whether Nixon himself ordered the 1972      —   he was forced to resign after it was revealed that he   attempted to obstruct justice and cover up the crime. ’ ”   Comey’s testimony, Zelizer says, is likely to reveal little or   nothing about the FBI’s investigation, but focus on whether Trump   acted improperly in his response to the probe. ” ’   ”The big question is how much does he talk about not necessarily   his conclusion that the president obstructed justice, but,   certainly, fears that the president’’s being improper,” Zelizer   said. ”If he’’s willing to say that, I think that’’s enough for   Congress to really accelerate this investigation.” ’ ’   In his  which the Senate Intelligence   Committee  on Wednesday, Comey called Trump’’s behavior   ”inappropriate”  —   a term open to interpretation and something   lawmakers are likely to press him to clarify. ’ ’   But Morton Keller, a professor emeritus of history at Brandeis   University, said comparisons to Watergate were presumptuous. ’ ’   ”In my youth, there was an expression ’’If my grandmother had   wheels, she’’d be a trolley car,’’” Keller told Business Insider.   ”If this has wheels, it may be another Watergate. But so far, I   don’’t see the wheels.” ’ ’   He added that the lesson to take from Watergate was that ”if   there’’s smoke, there may be fire, but you got to find the fire   first.” ’ ’   But Zelizer says that regardless of whether a crime is ever   uncovered, the nation is in a similar position today as it was 44   years ago. ’ ’   ”It’’s more than fair to say that we’’re certainly at the place   that we were with Watergate in 1973, where there were a lot of   red flags and enough for Congress, for journalists, for citizens   to be seriously concerned,” Zelizer said. ’ ’   Congressional testimony can provide many pivotal moments in a   scandal. It certainly did during the Watergate investigation. ’ ’   In a week of testimony before the Senate’’s Watergate committee,   Nixon’’s White House counsel, John Dean, was first to describe a   complex and   secret   operation   that involved the president. He famously recalled a conversation   in which he said he told Nixon there was a ”cancer growing on the   presidency and that if the cancer was not removed, the president   himself would be killed by it.” ’ ’   A month later, Alexander Butterfield, Nixon’’s deputy chief of   staff, told the committee that Nixon did, in fact, have   ”listening devices” in the Oval Office. On those tapes, which the   Supreme Court ultimately ruled must be released, Nixon was   recorded discussing the   of a   into the DNC   headquarters in Washington, DC. ’ ’ ’ ’   But politics are decidedly different in 2017 than they were in   1973. Congress is deeply divided along partisan lines, and   Republicans hold majorities in the House and Senate. Democrats   controlled both congressional bodies while the Watergate   investigation was underway. ’ ’   Zelizer said the kinds of questions Comey faces tomorrow might   signal how willing Republicans are to hold their party   accountable. ’ ’   ”Can the Republican Congress conduct an investigation and ask   Comey the kinds of questions that the Congress of ’’73 was able to   ask of Nixon administration officials, including Republicans?” he   said. ’ ’Former FBI Director James Comey will testify. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’