’The first episode of Apple’’s new reality show, ”Planet of the Apps,” has arrived  —   and it’’s a total mess.’ ’The show is a ”Shark Tank”  competition among app developers vying to gain a mentor who will turn their app into the next Facebook, along with a bag stuffed with venture capital money; In other words, the Silicon Valley dream.’ ’This is the first original TV show made by Apple and it ’ ”Of course, making good television requires different muscles than building beautiful hardware. And Apple’s inexperience in this realm quickly shows up in a variety of clumsy, comical and at times   scenes throughout the   show.” ”Business Insider watched the first episode (new episodes will be released every Tuesday). Here’s the good, the bad and the ugly from Apple’s first foray into TV entertainment:” ”None of the hosts has ever developed an app. With the exception of Gwyneth Paltrow (whose company, Goop, built a travel app called  none of the hosts own companies, or are affiliated with, companies that build apps. None of the hosts even really work in tech at all, unless you count Will. i. am’s  or Gary Vaynerchuk’s early tech investments in Facebook and Twitter. ” ’So, why are these four judging a show about making a hit app? That’’s the biggest mystery of ”Planet of the Apps,” and one that the judges themselves seem stumped by. At several points throughout the first episode, the judges bow out of mentoring a company because they have zero expertise in the field. ’ ’ ’ ”It’s awkward to watch, and probably even more awkward (and disconcerting) for the contestants. No one seemed outwardly phased by their escalator ride, but as a viewer, it was hard to watch.” ”And it’s another unecessary affectation that gives the show a forced, convoluted feel. Why not use a simple timer and buzzer to ensure the pitches stay concise? Why not have a digital scoreboard showing the judges decision instead of digitizing the floorboards? ” ’Apple seemed hellbent on differentiating the show from ”Shark Tank,” and the results look   confusing, and, frankly, a little amateurish. ’ ”. ..but not because it was a great idea. The judges quickly pointed out a flaw that the founders seemingly hadn’t considered even once: the app encouraged men to pick out attractive women and confront them in person. The app put women in the awkward position of having to be both hunted down by strange men, then having to reject them to their face.” ’The founders’’ confused and progressively heartbroken expressions as things went from bad to worse served as one of the few unintentionally humorous portions of the episode, along with Will. i. am calling the app’’s consequences ”a sausage fest. ”’ ’Alba described Twist as ”dudes trying to holler” and immediately pointed out that it was clear none of the apps founders had consulted a single woman while building their service. She encouraged the founders to actually talk to a woman about their idea rather than creating an app for men to stalk women.’ ’And her reaction when asked if she’’d changed her mind about mentoring the team was priceless: ”Still red,” she said while laughing and miming a hard ”no. ”’ ”Vaynerchuk’s character seems intended to be the enforcer, but he lacks the charm or empathy to balance the occasional harshness of his opinions. He may win us over in coming episodes, but the first 50 minutes were unpleasant.” ”To be fair, however, Will. i. am and Paltrow barely spoke throughout the entire episode and either looked bored or perplexed, while Alba’s reactions and critiques were all over the map. ” ’The introduction of Liew and his partners Aaron Batalion, Alex Taussig, and Nicole Quinn lent some gravitas to the show. Their questions were pointed, their expertise in apps and platforms was more legitimate, and they clearly knew their way around a startup pitch session. The presence of Jeremy Liew  —   one of the first VCs to invest in Snapchat  —   made the show feel as if a grownup had finally arrived to right the ship. ’ ’”Planet of the Apps” seems unsure whether it wants to be a serious show that can expound on the finer points of one of the hottest  —   and most complex  —   technologies of today, or whether it wants to attract average consumers who buy baby wipes from Honest Company or used to listen to the Black Eyed Peas.’ ’As someone in the tech field, I felt both terribly confused about the mapping capabilities of augmented reality, while simultaneously feeling condescended to when the definition for ”burn rate” popped up at the bottom of the screen.’ ’”Planet of the Apps” tried to do everything at once, but somehow failed at doing anything well. ’ ’The pure, uninhibited joy Wayne and Ernst clearly felt at getting an investment was sweet to watch. After 50 minutes, viewers were finally treated to real emotion and excitement by people who actually seemed to like apps. You could tell that the Companion founders enjoyed their experience on the show, even though no one else present really seemed to. ’ ”and the real shame here is that they’ve already produced nine more episodes of it. ” ”The first episode of Apple’s new reality show. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’