’  ’ ”   LONDON  —   Britain is heading for a hung parliament as a result of   Theresa May’s Conservatives losing a signficant number of seats,   according to a stunning exit poll for the BBC, ITV and Sky. ” ’   The exit poll predicts the Tories will be 12 seats short of a   parliamentary majority.  ’ ’   Here are the full results of the exit poll: ’ ’   If accurate, it would mean one of the most remarkable election   results in British history. ’ ’   But what actually is a ”hung parliament”? And what would it   actually mean in practice? ’ ”   Here’s everything you need to know. ” ’   In most previous British general elections one party has won an   absolute majority in Parliament. ’ ’   This is when one party wins more seats than all the other parties   put together. Technically speaking, a party must win 326 of the   650 seats in the House of Commons in order to win an absolute   majority. ’ ”   However, in reality the winning threshold is 323, as MPs from   Northern Irish party Sinn Fein don’t attend parliament, . ” ’   The First Past the Post voting system is designed to make this   outcome more likely by translating smaller national leads in   percentage terms, into bigger leads in terms of seats. ’ ’   On rare occasions, the winning party does not gain enough seats   to form an absolute majority, i. e. it has won fewer seats than   all the other parties put together. This is ”a hung parliament.” ’ ”   Britain has experienced just six hung parliaments since the   beginning of the 20th century. The most recent occurred in 2010   when David Cameron’s Conservatives won the election but with not   enough seats to form an absolute majority. ” ’   Hung parliaments make passing legislation very difficult for the   party in government. This is because, in theory, all other   parties in the Commons can team up to defeat the government on   laws it wants to pass. ’ ’   This leaves the governing party with the following options: ’ ’   Cameron went with the second option in 2010. He persuaded the   Liberal Democrats, then led by Nick Clegg, to join the   Conservatives in a formal coalition, and give the Tories the   numbers they needed to form an absolute majority. ’ ’  ’ ’   If the election produces a hung parliament then May will likely   have to go down the route of her predecessor Cameron and try to   form a formal coalition government. ’ ’   In theory, this could involve trying to strike a deal with the   Liberal Democrats, assuming Tim Farron’’s party wins enough seats,   or perhaps even the SNP, although the Tories and the SNP disagree   on just about everything, not least Brexit and the question of   Scottish independence. It may even mean May having to stitch   together the support of several smaller parties in order to   govern, the possibility of which she has previously dubbed a   ”coalition of chaos”. ’ ’  ’ ”   It’s unlikely that May would try to go it alone as a minority   government, given that many of her policies  —   the reintroduction   of grammar schools, for example  —   face fierce opposition from MPs   both from other parties and her own. ” ”   If May were to fail to form a coalition and didn’t want to go it   alone, then the only remaining option would be to hold   another general election that would take place a few   months down the line. ” ”   This situation happened in 1974, when a minority Labour   government was elected in February of that year. Labour had   the most seats but had taken fewer actual votes than the   Conservatives. Prime Minister Harold Wilson called another   general election in October 1974, and Labour won a     majority. That government survived until 1979 but it was   incredibly unstable.   eliminated Labour’s majority,   and a pact with the former Liberal Party in 1977 eventually   collapsed, leading to the 1979 election. ” ”   Today, a second election in the space of a few months would   also be Britain’s third election in just three years. ” ”   It’s hard to imagine the public being enthused about yet another   campaign, and the history of such second elections suggests that   it would likely lead to a very similar result to the first. ” ’   The time required to both campaign for and hold a second general   election would also eat up months of time that was supposed to be   used for Brexit negotiations with the European Union. ’ ’   A hung parliament could spell total chaos.  ’ ’LONDON  —   Britain is heading for a hung. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’