’  ’ ’   The former CTO of Hulu wants to build a company that can change   how Generation Z shops on mobile, creating what he likes to call   a ”QVC for Millennials.”  ’ ”   Eric Feng’s plan is built around one thing that’s super   popular with  : Unboxing videos.  ” ’   ”It’s not just people opening up the packs, but user reviews and   comparisons, tutorials  —   the product review category is huge,”    said. ’ ’   On Thursday, Feng unveiled his new company, Packagd. The   startup plans to stream live video of the stars of unboxing   videos talking about new products. Consumers will be able to   watch the videos through Packagd’’s apps and will be able to buy   the products that are mentioned by just tapping on a ”add to   cart” button as the video plays.   ’ ’   Over the last year, Feng and his team have been working in   stealth to sign agreements with more than 20 YouTube stars   and strike partnerships with brands like Best Buy and Microsoft   to sponsor the videos. ’ ”   Packagd’s business plan consciously drew inspiration from QVC,   the cable channel where hosts showcased new products that viewers   could order by calling a number displayed on their screens. Many   placed their orders and many more watched just for the   entertainment. ” ’   The live product demos are a bid to bring back the joy of   shopping, something that Feng feels like has been stripped in the   internet era.  ’ ’   ”Ecommerce has gotten so efficient that it’s not fun anymore,”   said Feng, who is Packagd’’s CEO. ”People don’t window shop.   People don’t shop with their friends. Amazon is relentless about   minimizing the number of pages that you see before purchase.” ’ ’   He continued: ”For us, we want to bring discovery. We want you to   have fun while you’re shopping.” ’ ”   Feng, who is also a partner at venture capital firm Kleiner   Perkins, got the idea for Packagd   after learning  on YouTube. The top   5 unboxing channels on YouTube have over 33 million   subscribers combined, according to Feng’s Kleiner partner   Mary Meeker. ” ’   YouTube has to cater to all kinds of different video creators and   types of content. As popular as the unboxing videos have   become, they could do even better if a company focused solely on   them, Feng bet. ’ ”   So Feng and his team built Packagd to work just for     unboxers, . Feng thinks   Packagd can help them become as popular among young adults   on their mobile devices as QVC hosts have been among the   retirees glued to their TVs. And he’s banking that they can help   sell products much like the hosts have done on QVC and Home   Shopping Network. ” ’  ’ ’   ”We want you to discover not just videos for products you know   about, but videos for products you don’t know about. And have   those videos driving purchasing decisions,” Feng said. ’ ’   For its modern and mobile spin on QVC,  is starting with a six hour   block of live shows that it will stream through its app every   day.  ’ ’   These aren’’t intended to be the ”Buy! Buy! Buy! The clock is   ticking down!” style of infomercials you may see on TV. Instead,   Packagd is encouraging its new hosts to take a more informal   approach. They’’ll chat with viewers live while streaming the   unboxing videos they’’ve already uploaded to YouTube. Feng   hopes the effect will be more like interacting with a friendly   expert than hearing a   sales pitch. ’ ’   ”Unboxers we feel have cracked the code on this content type.   They created a content format that’s super interesting, super   engaging,” Feng said. ”We’re not asking them to create new   videos. We’re not asking them to adopt it for our platform. We’re   saying we want to showcase them in a different way.” ’ ’   The company is starting with a new app called Unboxed that   focuses on reviews of tech products, ranging from drones,   laptops to smart home devices. Packagd plans to follow   Unboxed with an app focused on beauty product reviews that it   hopes to launch in two months. After that will come a toy review   app.  ’ ”   During each live show, the host will field questions   from Unboxed users who will be able to submit them using a   chat feature in the app. Users will be able to buy whichever   products the hosts are touting via a purchase button at the   bottom of their screens. If they do, they’ll earn loyalty   points they can apply towards discounts on future purchases made   through Unboxed. ” ”   Such purchases will benefit the hosts as well; they’ll get   affiliate commissions. And they won’t have to share those with   Packagd. Instead, 100% of the affiliate revenue will go the   hosts, Feng said.  ” ”   Packagd plans to make money by convincing brands to pay   to sponsor certain time slots of its live streams. Those partners   could either work with a product reviewer to build a show or   create their own. Either way, Unboxed service will work the same   for users. They’ll  be able to ask hosts questions and buy   what they see.  ” ’   ”We want you to feel like you’re in the live QVC audience and   talking to the host,” Feng said. ”What drives a lot of   transactions on QVC is affinity with the host.” ’ ’   The company will offer users more to watch than just the six   hours of live, hosted videos. To accommodate users who may   not be interested in the product being touted at a particular   moment in the live stream, Unboxed will also   offer a library of   videos for a range of   products.  ’ ’  ’ ”   But Packagd’s apps will be missing something you normally find on   YouTube and on other video sites or apps: a search bar. That’s   intentional; Feng want to encourage users to browse products and   discover things serendipitously through the app rather than   accommodate shoppers who already know what they want to buy. ” ’   ”You don’t turn on QVC when you know you want the DJI Spark,”   Feng said.  ’ ”   Despite Feng’s conviction that mobile shopping can be   transformed, he acknowledges the challenge Packagd faces. ” ’  ’ ”   While the company’s been able to convince product reviewers to   host its video stream, it will have to lure in consumers too, and   they may be harder to attract. If they’re already watching   product videos on YouTube or finding products on Instagram,   they may not see the need to download a new app to get similar   information.  ” ’   (Packagd plans to use product giveaways and a physical booth   at the electronics show, E3, to convince them to give the app a   try.) ’ ’   Still, Feng is hopeful that if Packagd builds something   better for both unboxers and consumers, success will follow.   The company has already raised $7. 5 million from top Silicon   Valley venture capitalists, who are betting it will do for   unboxing videos what Twitch did for gaming. ’ ”   Even though YouTube is the dominant player today, it’s investing   too widely and not focusing enough on translating its popularity   into purchases, Feng said. That’s where there’s an opening for   Packagd, he added.  ” ’   ”I’m hoping the fact that these videos are so popular means there   is demand to consume them. I think the bigger existential   question is does that demand to consume those just stay on   YouTube?” Feng said. ”It may. We may not be able to pull it off.   That may be a real competitive risk that we just can’t solve. But   we won’t know until we launch and try.”  ’ ’The former CTO of Hulu wants to build a company. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’