’  ’ ’   Elon Musk has broken some tantalizing news about the biggest   rocket ever built by his company SpaceX. ’ ”   If the tech mogul’s plans hold, the new launch system, called   Falcon Heavy, could lift off for the first time in just a few   months. ” ’   The new    rocket would combine the power of three   smaller Falcon 9 rockets, using all 27 rocket engines to generate   more than 5 million pounds of thrust at liftoff. ’ ”   That’s enough oomph to put about 119, 000 pounds, or a fully   loaded 737 jet, into orbit. The new rocket could also send a   small spaceship, two passengers, and other gear to the moon,   totaling about   the mass that NASA’s  moon rocket . ” ’   In fact, a privately funded  is exactly what Musk hopes to pull   off before the end of 2018. ’ ”   Musk’s response on Thursday to a Twitter user’s question about   the   system included the most specific and      timing yet for the Falcon Heavy’s first launch: ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tAll Falcon Heavy cores should be at the Cape in two to three months, so launch should happen a month after that’t’t’ ”   There’s reason to be skeptical that Falcon Heavy will launch on   time, however, since Musk has been known to miss deadlines and   underestimate the difficulty of his endeavors. ” ”   For example, Falcon Heavy was originally supposed to launch for   the first time . But an    in September, followed by a  and a temporary   on   launches, pushed the giant rocket’s inaugural launch back to the   third quarter of 2017. ” ’   But if SpaceX can pull off the launch, calling it a big   advancement for spaceflight would be an understatement. ’ ’  ’ ’   To blast off its Falcon Heavy rocket, SpaceX will strap  to the side of a   new central rocket core. ’ ’   After launch, the two side rockets would peel off and attempt to   land themselves at Cape Canaveral, Florida, so they could be   refurbished and reused for yet another launch. ’ ’   The central core would continue flying for a little while and   then detach from an   rocket, which would blast a   payload into orbit. The core would then fall back toward Earth,   land on a drone ship in the Atlantic Ocean, and also be recovered   for reuse. ’ ’   Nearly all rocket parts in history have fallen back to Earth as   garbage. Musk hopes to break that expensive tradition by   repeatedly launching, landing, and reusing his rocket parts. His   hope is to reduce the  hundredfold and,   later on, . ’ ’   Musk is the first to admit his plans are highly ambitious. ’ ’   ”We will probably fly something really silly on Falcon Heavy   because it is quite a   mission,” Musk said in March   after the successful launch of the  which was the first to reuse a   Falcon 9 booster. ’ ”   The tech mogul hasn’t said what that silly payload might be, but   his company did once . ” ’Elon Musk has broken some tantalizing news. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’