’  ’ ’   The man tasked with overseeing Gizmodo Media Group after the   demise of Gawker. com says he never regularly read the site in the   first place. ’ ’   ”I’’m well past the demographic they were aiming for,” CEO Raju   Narisetti said in an interview. ”If you ask me if it was a place   I spent a lot of time on on a daily basis, the answer is no.” ’ ”   Narisetti is leading GMG through the media company’s merger with   Fusion Media Group, which is owned by the     juggernaut Univision. According to the CEO, the transition has   been a success. ” ’   But conversations with over a dozen current and former employees   painted a starkly different picture. ’ ’   Since the deal, the six former Gawker Media sites  —   Gizmodo,   Jezebel, Deadspin, Kotaku, Jalopnik, and Lifehacker  —   have   struggled with indecision, a dysfunctional bureaucracy, and an   exodus of top leadership and institutional knowledge that gave   Gawker Media its editorial bite. ’ ”   Mergers have a tendency to be messy, and Gawker Media’s entry   into Univision’s portfolio is far from the most troubled media   acquisition in recent history. ” ”   News Corp. bungled its   takeover of Myspace after   failing to cater to the   platform’s users and trying   to monetize the site too quickly, for example, while the 2000   merger of then newspaper giants Tribune Media and Times Mirror   Co. generated massive turnover at the company,  among shareholders, and . Then there’s the infamous     Warner deal, and AOL’s current complicated merger with Yahoo. ” ’   Still, many GMG staffers wonder what will remain of the clever,   fearless attitude that defined the sites for millions of readers   and set the tone for much of the independent web. ’ ’   ”A lot of people who made Gawker Media what it was have either   left or been so beaten down that the company it used to be   doesn’’t exist anymore,” one GMG employee said. ’ ’   ”Some of the Gawker ethos is sort of showing up in the   publications that people have dispersed to, but it’’s never going   to be the same. Univision claimed that they wanted to buy Gawker   because they believe in ’’fearless journalism,’’ but every decision   they’’ve made seems to be an effort to either water the Gawker   spirit down as much as possible or just bolster Fusion TV in some   way.” ’ ’   Univision bought Gawker Media last August in a fire sale. It   shuttered the iconic Gawker. com, which was viewed as toxic after   a court ordered Gawker Media to pay Terry Bollea  —   aka Hulk Hogan    —   $140 million for publishing a sex tape featuring the wrestler.   The lawsuit was secretly funded by Peter Thiel, the early   Facebook investor and board member who was publicly outed by the   publication as gay years earlier. ’ ’  ’ ’   The company bought Gawker Media, which it renamed Gizmodo Media   Group, with the hope of broadening the audience to become the   voice and reflection of an increasingly diverse young America,   with a slightly less intense editorial focus on the trademark   skepticism and disdain for powerful interests. ’ ’   Now, several months into the merger, Narisetti said that contrary   to the ”conventional wisdom,” data shows it’’s been a ”pretty   good” few months since the six sites were bought by Univision and   joined with Fusion. net and The Root. ’ ’   The CEO, who joined GMG in October from News Corp. rattled off     statistics that showed a company growing after a   tumultuous multiyear legal battle with Hogan that took the   company from a  to bankruptcy. ’ ’   Narisetti said last week that even after he had hired 53 new     staffers across the websites, the company remained   under budget and on target to experience a 30% increase in   revenue across the sites in one year. ’ ”   Traffic to the sites has remained steady at about 90 million   monthly unique visitors since he took over in October, certainly   an accomplishment considering Fusion’s  and the loss of the 15   million to 16 million monthly uniques that Gawker’s flagship   website generated. ” ”   Other Fusion Media Group sites that were integrated into the GMG   portfolio have thrived. Since transitioning over to GMG’s Kinja   publishing platform in January, the   digital   magazine The Root has 35% more uniques each month than it did in   the same months last year. ” ’   Narisetti’’s   goal is to turn the network of sites into   a publication catering to a diverse, young America of the future.   By 2028, Narisetti said, ”a majority of young Americans will be   nonwhite.” ’ ’   ”Our view is,” he added, ”while there are a lot of   brands   for Americans today, there aren’’t a lot of   brands for what   is going to be a much more diverse young America.” ’ ”   But he acknowledges it hasn’t always been easy to execute that   vision. ” ’   ”At an   I joked, ’’I’’ve never lost more sleep and gained   more weight in the same period,’’” Narisetti said. ”It’’s been a   great and a challenging year.” ’ ’   For many GMG employees, ”challenging” is an understated   description of the past several months. ’ ’   Conversations with more than a dozen current and former staffers   over the past several weeks detailed a difficult integration that   has chipped away the spirit and ethos of Gawker Media, founded 14   years ago by Nick Denton as two blogs covering media and tech   gossip, which eventually evolved into the fiercely independent,   proudly standoffish, endlessly   media company   targeted by Thiel and Hogan. ’ ’   Staffers say they felt initial relief after Univision beat out   the media company Ziff Davis to buy GMG out of bankruptcy for   $135 million. But now the environment is, as one employee put it,   ”toxic,” and as downcast as it was during some of the Hogan   trial. ’ ’   ”Every day, morale got worse because it felt like Univision was   determined to stamp out all the great things about working at   Gawker Media,” one former GMG staffer told Business Insider.   ”They had no interest in maintaining our editorial philosophy,   having a functioning HR department, or retaining key talent.” ’ ’   In the nine months since the acquisition, the company formerly   known as Gawker Media has seen an exodus of top talent and   leadership. ’ ”   Heather Dietrick, the president of Gawker Media and then of GMG,   . The editorial team’s    deputy   executive editor Lacey Donohue, left in late 2016 and was   followed by the executive managing editor, Katie Drummond, in   March. Matt Hardigree left the company in May after working as   the editor of Jalopnik and partnerships.   reporters   like Christina Warren and Ashley Feinberg have also left the   company in recent weeks. ” ’  ’ ’   The heads of the   and legal departments, both   figures with outsize power and importance at the formerly   independent, freewheeling company, also departed in the early   months of the acquisition. ’ ’   Business Insider has counted the resignations of at least 26   former Gawker Media employees since the merger, many of them in     positions. ’ ’   After  about its own relationship with female   leaders at the company, the final iteration of Gawker Media was   one with women in the most senior roles in the company, a source   of pride and loyalty for many staffers. ’ ’   But months later, with top leaders departing, some employees   wonder whether the company is doing enough to persuade respected   female leaders to remain, and if the company will suffer from the   talent and leadership losses its already experienced. ’ ’   ”People are really worried about this,” one GMG employee said.   ”Just since Katie left, we’’ve lost our president, our top video   journalist, and our best reporter, and that’’s after a big     meeting where people were really clear about how   alarming the pattern was. ’ ’   ”There are women being promoted or hired into positions of power,   and I’’m sure there will be more, but even if the   do   all the right things from now on, it’’s not like you can really   fix it, because you’’ve lost so many of the people who made the   place what it was at its best.” ’ ”   As WWD reported, after Drummond’s departure in March, the   editorial union  to management criticizing the   loss of top female leaders. ” ’   ”We were extremely alarmed to hear that Katie Drummond will not   become executive editor and instead leave Gizmodo Media,”   . ’ ’   ”It continues a disturbing pattern of top management’’s failure to   retain women in positions of authority, and raises serious   concerns about the company’’s commitment to honor its contractual   obligation to editorial independence. Further, it is yet another   sign that Univision still has not found a way to manage the   successful independent media company it acquired months ago.” ’ ”   Drummond’s departure remains a source of tension. ” ’   According to multiple sources familiar with the situation,   Drummond was paid significantly less than the company’s previous   top editor, John Cook, while essentially filling in for him for   several months without a title change. And when she was offered   the title of executive editor, the sources say, Drummond was told   it was ”rude” to ask for a raise. ’ ’   Narisetti told Business Insider that although he would not   discuss private discussions of compensation, the characterization   was inaccurate, as Drummond was assisted by the newly created   role of deputy executive managing editor specifically created to   support her while the company mulled who would fill the executive   editor position that would oversee now eight sites, including The   Root and Fusion. ’ ’  ’ ’   At the same time, two sources said, Dietrick ”was almost   completely sidelined” by management after the acquisition late   last year, as Narisetti and others assumed many of her previous   responsibilities. ’ ”   Narisetti dismissed charges that GMG’s struggle to retain women   in top roles was a cultural problem at the company. ” ’   Though he said he was ”not minimizing” the effect many top women   like Dietrick and Drummond had during the past several years, he   pointed out that GMG’’s editorial leadership remained slightly   more female than male, and he emphasized he was not ”going to   play defense on it.” ’ ’   ”Our ’u200btrack record ’u200band actual data ’u200bon compensation, raises,   promotions, diversity’u200b,’u200b as well as our ability to attract and   retain employees’u200b who ’u200bwant to’u200b ’u200bstay dedicated to the impactful   journalism being done ’u200bevery day a’u200bcross’u200b GMG’u200b, more than ’u200bspeaks   for itself,” Narisetti said in a statement. ’ ’   ”I’’m more concerned about my character than my reputation,   because my character is who I am and my reputation is what others   think I am,” he said previously. ”One is permanent, and one is   changeable based on people’’s views. I have no doubt that we’’ve   lost some people and no less and no more than a lot of companies   do in the first year of an acquisition and a merger and an   integration.” ’ ’   Beyond struggling with holding together the former Gawker   editorial team and mission, Univision also lost the confidence of   many employees with basic operational issues that surfaced while   it tried to integrate its new acquisition. ’ ”   Numerous bureaucratic problems became almost immediately   apparent, making the formerly nimble independent company feel   like a dysfunctional cog in a massive, sluggish machine. For   example, employees say Univision’s teams responded slowly or were   unresponsive to significant payroll and benefits problems that   roiled the company for months. ” ”   The company delayed annual raises, they continued, and multiple   staffers received accidental notes that stated other employees’   salaries. According to two sources with direct knowledge of the   incident, one GMG editorial staffer was accidentally sent a list   of individual salaries for the entire editorial union, amounting   to hundreds of people. In it, the person discovered that a peer   in the editorial staff was being paid more than $400, 000, a   significantly higher number than most of the newsroom. ” ’   Employees faced similar problems with benefits. ’ ’   Several employees say they had their insurance denied on visits   to the doctor and were unable to pick up prescriptions. Others   were charged for insurance they did not select, a source said.   Two people recalled a top site editor having their newborn child   go weeks without   benefits. ’ ’   Narisetti acknowledged that payroll and benefit issues had been a   source of anxiety for the staff, telling Business Insider that   the company ”didn’’t have a plan B in place” when Gawker’’s HR team   left en masse. ’ ’   In an   email sent in February that was provided to   Business Insider, the CEO apologized and said GMG was working on   the issues, though benefits and HR problems persisted to the   point that the editorial union in April gave the company a     deadline to resolve them. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”It has been an unexpectedly bumpy transition, to put it mildly,”   he wrote. ”And I want to personally acknowledge and apologize on   behalf of Univision, FMG and GMG, for all the stress and angst   this is causing. Like all of you, I am also inclined to focus on   our journalistic and business challenges than dissipate any of   our time and energy on fighting internal issues. But we clearly   need to get these internal issues in order and we will.” ’ ”   For its part, GMG has made explicit attempts to continue Gawker’s   history of provocative investigations. ” ’   Cook  —   who moved from executive editor to oversee the     desk  —   oversees a team primarily made up of   former Gawker writers. ’ ’   He told Nieman Lab last month that the creation of the   investigations unit ”sort of offset the loss of Gawker” by   continuing to pursue provocative investigations, such as showing   it to be quite easy to   top government officials. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tWhen Peter Thiel killed Gawker he forgot to kill its brains:  ’ ’   ”From a distance, it seems like the acquirer values the   investigative journalism from John Cook and his team,” Denton,   the Gawker founder, told Business Insider in an email when asked   about the merger. ”I’’m glad to see Univision’’s support for   investigative journalism at Gizmodo.” ’ ’   But GMG staffers are also having to adjust to a new environment   under heightened internal legal scrutiny. ’ ”   Stories have also had to clear higher legal barriers in a way   that some employees feel is overly cautious and almost   distrustful of the sites’ aggressive, provocative journalism but   that the company says is the standard operating procedure for   most major media organizations. ” ”   According to employees with knowledge of the process, staff   members on the   desk are required to get the   company’s legal team to sign off on any story they write, even   basic blog posts with no original reporting, and still have no   official website months after launching, negotiating with other   GMG sites about which site might best host an investigation. ” ”   Four current and former employees said the legal team was very   cautious of publishing exclusives about Thiel’s personal life and   intentionally slowed reporting related to the tech billionaire,   who financially supported the lawsuit that bankrupted Gawker. ” ’   In an email to members in June obtained by Business Insider, the   editorial union said it unsuccessfully tried to remove a     clause from separation agreements.     clauses are commonplace in separation   agreements, but some employees have taken them as a sign of   hostility from management to staff. ’ ”   Staffers say they were similarly infuriated by the company’s   decision to remove controversial posts tied up in litigation and,   without an official company policy, fear that it could happen   again. ” ’   ”It was extremely difficult to watch Univision’’s lawyer decline   the opportunity to defend their own colleagues’’ work against a   malicious legal attack,” one GMG employee told Business Insider.   ”People are absolutely concerned that Univision will try to   remove posts in the future.” ’ ”   FMG and GMG managers have also shied away at points from easy   opportunities to   Gawker’s legacy. ” ’   When in February staffers tried to host a public screening of   ”Nobody Speak: Trails of the Free Press,” a documentary about   Gawker’’s battle with Hogan, Narisetti,  vetoed the   proposal, eventually allowing only a private,     screening of the film. ’ ’   In an email praising the ”rich, collective  ” of   Gawker, Narisetti noted that the company implemented a policy of   not engaging in discussions or debates on Gawker Media estate   issues. ’ ’   ”We continue to face some ongoing business challenges around   effectively communicating the premise and promise of the new     and to keep moving ahead in 2017, as we continue to   still be hobbled by some (diminishing) past business   perceptions,” he wrote. ”That is somewhat relevant in this   particular context  —   though quite secondary to the company policy   of not discussing Gawker issues  —   as a public   around   the movie, hosted by   can easily and unnecessarily add to   that ongoing challenge.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Narisetti argued that the hardest part of the transition was   behind GMG. ’ ’   Several employees who lamented the mess of payroll and benefits   said that since the company brought on a new HR representative   last month, fewer problems had spilled out into the open. ’ ’   The company, too, has prepared to begin seriously building out   the GMG properties for the first time since the merger. ’ ’   Fusion, which confusingly ceded its Fusion. net domain last month   to the Fusion television channel, is set to relaunch with a new   domain name in June. ’ ’   In addition to a parenting site it launched last week, according   to one source, the company plans to launch at least three new   sites. (Narisetti hinted at food, music, and the environment,   though Business Insider could not confirm the details.) ’ ’   The   AV Club and Onion websites are expected to   migrate over to Kinja during the slower summer months, creating   one universal   system and allowing the company   to increase revenue by selling the entire package of sites to   advertisers as a whole. ’ ’   ”My view is that we look back next year and say, ’’That was a   rough six months,’’” Narisetti said. ”Our journalism has held out,   we’’re producing great stories. I use the famous Ronald Reagan   line, which is, ’’If you’’re committing acts of journalism at GMG,   are you better off today than you were seven months ago? ’’ I think   almost everybody will have to answer the question ’’yes. ’’” ’ ’The man tasked with overseeing Gizmodo Media. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’