’  ’ ’   The sun is out, flowers are blooming, and your refrigerator is so   cluttered with wedding invitations you can hardly find the   handle. ’ ”   There’s nothing quite like wedding season to get you   contemplating the next phase of your relationship. So you’re   probably wondering  —   let’s just say theoretically  —   how   might tying the knot affect my partner and I? Will it make us   happier? Strengthen our relationship? ” ”   Aside from the enthusiastic friend or extended family member, you   probably have loads of anecdotal evidence suggesting that the   answers to both of those questions is yes. After all, thousands   of Pinterest boards can’t lie  —   or can they? ” ”   Interestingly, the bulk of sociological research on this topic   actually suggests that it isn’t marriage that’s the key to   lasting happiness, but something far more basic. It all comes   down to finding a romantic partner who also happens to be the   person you’d call your best friend. ” ’   In a recent study of thousands of couples on marriage and   happiness,  a University of British Columbia economist   and the   of the  found evidence suggesting that the   most important factor for a lasting, happy relationship was   whether or not you see your romantic partner as your   closest friend. ’ ”   Helliwell and his research team looked at data from two large   British surveys and the Gallup World Poll. After accounting for   couples’ age, gender, income, and health conditions, they found   that couples who were best friends and lived together were just   as happy as couples who were best friends and married. ” ”   In other words, marriage didn’t appear to matter much at all. ” ’   Here’’s a chart from the study comparing the ”life satisfaction”   of couples who were married (blue bars) with couples who lived   together but were unmarried (red bars). Couples who said their   partner was their best friend are on the left. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”What immediately intrigued me about the results was to rethink   marriage as a whole,” Helliwell recently . ’ ”   Other research seems to support Helliwell’s findings. ” ’  ’ ’   For their  researchers found that   couples who lived together but were not married had higher     and were happier overall than their married   counterparts. ’ ’   In a recent  social psychologist Bella   DePaulo took a look at a large 2012 review of more than . Initially, the researchers   concluded that marriage made people happier. But taking a closer   look at the numbers, DePaulo came to the opposite conclusion. ’ ’   ”Except for that initial   honeymoon effect for life   satisfaction,” she writes, ”getting married did not   result in getting happier or more satisfied. In fact, for life   satisfaction and relationship satisfaction, the trajectories over   time headed in the less satisfied direction.” ’ ”   Other studies back up DePaulo’s assertion: A  found that couples   who got married generally felt less happy and less satisfied with   their lives over time. ” ’   Helliwell prefers to look on the bright side of these findings. ’ ’   ”Maybe what is really important [in a relationship] is   friendship, and to never forget that in the push and pull of   daily life,” he said. ’ ’The sun is out, flowers are blooming, and your. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’