In 2004, George W. Bush was in the White House, Beyoncé was in Destiny’s Child and more than 100, 000 American troops were in Iraq. Whether or not this could be called a more innocent time, innocence is the central idea  —   the premise, the moral, the scarlet letter and the white whale  —   of “Billy Lynn’s Long Halftime Walk,” which takes place in that    year. Directed by Ang Lee and adapted from Ben Fountain’s novel, a National Book Award finalist in 2012, the movie is dominated by the baby blues and shy smile of its title character, an Army specialist from a small town in Texas. Billy (Joe Alwyn) and the other surviving members of Bravo Company, having endured a hellish firefight in Iraq, find themselves in equally surreal if less perilous circumstances back in the U. S. A. where they have been conscripted into the halftime show of a Thanksgiving Day professional football game. They are warmly applauded for their service and also callously exploited, fodder for a spectacle that collapses the difference between patriotic sentiment and gross commercialism. The audience’s attention swivels back and forth between the theater of battle and the arena of American   pop culture, pausing for quieter moments backstage, in the barracks and at Billy’s childhood home. A genial kid  —   he’s all of 19, and still a virgin  —   with a friendly manner and an understated sense of humor, Billy is the kind of person everyone seems to like. The officers in charge of his unit, the sarcastic taskmaster Dime (Garrett Hedlund) and the mystical warrior Shroom (Vin Diesel) regard him with   fondness. He is popular with the other men, especially Montoya (whose nickname is Mango). Something about him inspires special devotion from his sister Kathryn (Kristen Stewart) and catches the eye of a cheerleader named Faison (Makenzie Leigh). That’s a lot of people, and I haven’t even mentioned Albert (Chris Tucker) the movie guy who is trying to sell the story of the Bravos to Hollywood, or Norm Oglesby (Steve Martin) the Texas real estate mogul and   owner who is the Bravos’ host. Billy’s dealings with everyone  —   earnest conversations punctuated by flurries of boyish banter and bursts of intense action  —   give the movie a pleasantly hectic rhythm, but also thin out its emotions. The book is propelled by the breakneck velocity and scattershot jokiness of Mr. Fountain’s prose, but neither frenzy nor insouciance is exactly Mr. Lee’s speed. He is an elegant, contemplative filmmaker, observing strong emotions with a careful balance of sympathy and detachment. And even the chaos of combat and the circus inside the stadium have a choreographed, almost serene quality. You are not immersed in Billy’s world or his consciousness, but floating through them, with your eyes and ears open for small, significant details. There are enough of these to make watching “Billy Lynn’s Long Halftime Walk” absorbing. The clarity of the digital cinematography (by John Toll) and the precision of the production design (by Mark Friedberg) incite a hundred small acts of noticing, and the script (by   Castelli) is attentive to the book’s cacophony of idioms. The movie is being released in two forms: a      version with an accelerated frame rate in a couple of theaters and a more conventional version everywhere else. The   edition, which was screened at the New York Film Festival, is a fascinating failed experiment, an attempt to bring Billy’s drama to life with unprecedented immediacy that falls into an uncanny valley between cinema and virtual reality. The images are, somewhat paradoxically, so   that their artificiality becomes more pronounced you feel as if you’re sitting uncomfortably close to the costumed holograms of famous actors. In more traditional moviegoing conditions the paradox runs in the other direction. The smoothness of the camerawork and the deliberateness of the dialogue make “Billy Lynn” feel more like a filmed play than an adapted novel, despite the verisimilitude of the settings. The acting, in   and medium shots, has a studied, stagy quality. Too often, you can hear the writing when the actors speak. But the median quality of both the writing and the acting is pretty high. Ms. Stewart, in just a few scenes, proves once again that she is one of the most interesting screen actresses of her generation, and you may wish that more of the movie was about Kathryn. It is a pleasure to encounter Mr. Diesel in his   mode, and to be in the peppery presence of the underrated Mr. Hedlund. And also to witness Mr. Lee’s ability to serve the ideas of a literary source. “Billy Lynn’s Long Halftime Walk” is about the gulf that separates modern soldiers from their noncombatant fellow citizens, a rift that is the subject of books like Phil Klay’s “Redeployment” and Sebastian Junger’s “Tribe. ” The film is also, like Mr. Lee’s “Brokeback Mountain,” about love among men. The bonds in this case are comradely rather than erotic, but they are no less deep for that reason, and are stronger than anything else, including patriotism, family loyalty and heterosexual romance. This is not exactly a rare   notion, but “Billy Lynn’s Long Halftime Walk” explores it with gentleness rather than sentimental bombast. The satire may be a little too gentle, but there is something disarmingly tender about the way Mr. Lee dramatizes young Billy’s predicament. You may be surprised at how sweet this movie is and also, in retrospect, startled by how bleak its vision turns out to be. “Billy Lynn’s Long Halftime Walk” is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian) for bloody combat, profanity and sexual longing. Running time: 1 hour 52 minutes.