’  ’ ’   JALALABAD,  (Reuters)   Three American   soldiers were killed and one wounded on Saturday when an Afghan   soldier opened fire on them in eastern    according to three US officials. ’ ’   The shooting occurred in the Achin district of Nangarhar   province, where US special forces have been fighting alongside   Afghan troops against Islamic State and Taliban militants, said   Attaullah Khogyani, a spokesman for the Nangarhar provincial   governor. ’ ’   The Afghan soldier was killed in the incident, Khogyani said. ’ ’   ”The cause of the shooting is not clear. An investigation has   already begun,” he said. ’ ’   One US official, speaking on the condition of anonymity,   confirmed that the incident was a ”  ” attack by a   member of the Afghan security forces in Nangarhar province. ’ ’’ ’     ”  ” insider attacks by Afghan soldiers on   international service members were a major problem several years   ago, but now occur less frequently after security measures were   improved and the number of foreign troops in the country fell   sharply. ’ ’   In March, three US soldiers were wounded when an Afghan soldier   opened fire on them. ’ ”   The attack comes as President Donald Trump’s administration   weighs an increase in troops in the   country. ” ”   Reuters reported in late April that Trump’s administration was   carrying out a review of and   conversations are revolving around sending between 3, 000 and   5, 000 US and coalition troops to . ” ’   Deliberations include giving more authorities to forces on the   ground and taking more aggressive action against Taliban   fighters. This could allow US advisers to work with Afghan troops   below the corps level, potentially putting them closer to   fighting, a US official said. ’ ’   Earlier this year, the top US intelligence said the security   situation in  will further deteriorate   even if there is a modest increase in US military support for   . ’ ’   In some cases Afghan troops have been forced to abandon more   scattered and rural bases, and the government can claim to   control or influence only 57 percent of the country, according to   US military estimates from earlier this year. ’ ’   A spokesman for the US military command in Kabul said they were   aware of the report, but could not yet confirm any details. ’ ’   A White House spokesman said Trump was ”following the emerging   situation in ” where the soldiers were   killed. ’ ’   Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said the shooter was a   member of the militant group and had killed four Americans and   wounded several more. ’ ’     ’ ’   (Additional reporting by Josh Smith in Kabul, and Phil Stewart,   Idrees Ali in Washington. Writing by Lesley Wroughton in   Washington.; Editing by Marguerita Choy and Chizu Nomiyama) ’ ’JALALABAD, Afghanistan (Reuters)   Three. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’