’  ’ ’   SEATTLE (AP)  —   Demonstrators at small but raucous gatherings   around the country Saturday raised the specter that extremist   interpretations of Islamic law might somehow spread across the   US, but many of the rallies drew even more boisterous     by people who called such fears unfounded. ’ ’   Hundreds of   marched through downtown Seattle,   banging drums, cymbals and cowbells behind a large sign saying   ”Seattle stands with our Muslim neighbors.” Participants chanted   ”No hate, no fear, Muslims are welcome here” on their way to City   Hall, where dozens of   protesters rallied. ’ ’   A phalanx of bicycle police officers kept the sides separated   during the sanctioned events, but authorities said a large fight   broke out after the gatherings concluded. Police used tear gas to   disperse rowdy demonstrators and arrested three people for   obstructing law enforcement. ’ ’   In front of the Trump building in downtown Chicago, about 30   people demonstrated against Islamic law and in favor of President   Donald Trump, shouting slogans and holding signs that read ”Ban   ” and ” abuses women.”   About twice as many   marshaled across the   street. ’ ’   A similar scene played out in a park near a New York courthouse,   where   sounded   and banged pots and   pans in an effort to silence an   rally. In St. Paul,   Minnesota, state troopers arrested about a   people when   scuffles broke out at the close of competing demonstrations at   the state Capitol. ’ ’   ”The theme of today is drowning out racism,” said New York     Tony Murphy, standing next to demonstrators   with colorful earplugs. ”The more racists get a platform, the   more people get attacked.” ’ ’  ’ ’   The rallies, held in more than two dozen US cities, were   organized by ACT for America, which claims Islamic law is   incompatible with Western democracy. ’ ’   The organization said it opposes discrimination and supports the   rights of those subject to Shariah. However, the Southern Poverty   Law Center, which tracks hate groups, calls it the largest   American   group. ’ ’   ”I don’’t believe Islam can peacefully   with the   Constitution,” said Seattle   demonstrator Aaron   Bassford, 29. ”We need unity in this country under no ideology   and no banner except the Constitution of the United States of   America.” ’ ’   But the overwhelming majority of Muslims don’’t want to replace US   law with Islamic law, known as Shariah, and only ”radical   extremist groups” would call for that, said Liyakat Takim, a   professor of Islamic studies at McMaster University in the   Canadian city of Hamilton, Ontario. ’ ’   Shariah, Takim said, refers to guidelines or principles  —   how   Muslims should live. ”Fiqh” refers to jurisprudence, or specific   laws. The values embedded in Shariah do not change and are shared   among Muslims, he said, while fiqh is open to interpretation and   change, and in fact differs among Islamic sects and communities. ’ ’   ”The Quran allows slavery. So does the Old Testament. That   doesn’’t mean we allow it today, too,” Takim said. ”Laws are   amenable to change.” ’ ’   In Seattle, activists set up an ”Ask an American Muslim” booth to   give rally participants on either side a chance to speak with a   Muslim. ’ ’   ”American Muslims support the American values and freedoms we all   cherish,” said Arsalan Bukhari, executive director of the state   chapter of the Council on   Relations. ’ ’   The marches come amid a rise in reports of   incidents   in the US, including arson attacks and vandalism at mosques,   harassment of women wearing Muslim head coverings and bullying of   Muslim schoolchildren. ’ ’  ’ ’   In California, small but raucous demonstrations were held in a   handful of cities, including San Bernardino, where a husband and   wife inspired by the Islamic State group killed 14 people and   wounded 22 in a 2015 shooting attack. ’ ’   Clusters of protesters and   gathered on four   corners of an intersection at a memorial to the slain, yelling   and waving American flags and posters proclaiming various causes.     law demonstrators marched past the building where   the shootings occurred. ’ ’   ”There’’s an   a     so there   are a variety of messages here,” San Bernardino police   spokeswoman Eileen Hards said. ”There are so many messages going   on that I’’m not sure who’’s who.” ’ ’     law protester Denise Zamora, 39, said she and others   in her group were not opposed to all Muslims. ’ ’   ”We’’re  . We’’re ” the Upland woman said.   She added, of Shariah: ”It’’s coming in very slowly, and a lot of   the refugees are bringing that ideology here. All of it is just   barbaric.” ’ ”   About 300 people attended San Bernardino’s rallies. Three were   arrested on suspicion of vandalism for smashing windows of two   cars, Hards said. ” ’   ___ ’ ’   Associated Press writers Andrew Selsky in Portland, Oregon; Deniz   Cam in New York; Jeff Karoub in Detroit; Kimberlee Kruesi in   Boise, Idaho; Robert Jablon in Los Angeles; Dave Kolpack in   Fargo, North Dakota; and Michael Tarm in Chicago contributed to   this report. ’ ’SEATTLE (AP)  —   Demonstrators at small but. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’