’  ’ ”   Delta Air Lines pulled its sponsorship from New York City’s   Public Theater on Sunday because one of its   plays depicts the assassination of a politician who looks   like President Donald Trump. ” ’   The theater company’’s production of Shakespeare’’s ”Julius Caesar”   features actors wearing modern dress and a blond, business     title character. The character is stabbed to death   in a bloody scene midway through the play. ’ ’   ”No matter what your political stance may be, the graphic staging   of Julius Caesar at this summer’s Free Shakespeare in the Park   does not reflect Delta Air Lines’ values,” Delta said in a   . ”Their   artistic and creative direction crossed the line on the standards   of good taste.” ’ ’   The play is running through June 18 as part of the Public   Theater’’s popular ”Shakespeare in the Park” series in Manhattan’’s   Central Park. ’ ’   Hosts of the Fox News morning program ”Fox and Friends”   criticized the play earlier Sunday. ’ ’’ ’   ”A disgusting New York City play depicting the president brutally   assassinated, all while being funded by your taxpayer dollars,” a   Fox host said as she introduced a segment about the play. ’ ’   Donald Trump Jr. chimed in as well, tweeting a Fox News   article about the segment and asking ”Serious question, when does   ’’art’’ become political speech & does that change things?” ’ ’   Before pulling its sponsorship, Delta responded to the Fox News   tweet with the statement, ”We do not support this interpretation   of Julius Caesar.” ’ ”   A note on the play’s website, from director Oskar Eustis,   addresses the provocative scene. ” ’   ”’’Julius Caesar is about how fragile democracy is. The   institutions that we have inherited from the struggle of many   generations of our ancestors, can be swept away in no time at   all,” it reads, in part. ’ ’   ”The difficulty in determining the protagonist of ’’Julius Caesar    —   there are at least four credible candidates  —   is not a formal   weakness of the play, but rather essential to its structure. When   history is happening, when the ground is slipping away from under   us and all that is solid melts into air, leadership is as   transitory and flawed as the times.” ’ ’Delta Air Lines pulled its sponsorship from New. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’