  Donald J. Trump overhauled his transition team from top to bottom on Friday, expanded his outreach to more establishment Republicans, and even offered an olive branch to President Obama  —   albeit a narrow one. On the other side, Democrats signaled they would move left in the wake of Hillary Clinton’s    defeat, and the  ’s legal antagonist, Gloria Allred, made it clear that neither she nor many of the women who have accused him of sexual assault are going anywhere. Join us again on Monday for continuing live updates on the transition to the 45th presidency of the United States. Mr. Trump said Friday that, after talking with President Obama this week, he might be willing to leave in place parts of the Affordable Care Act once he’s in office. Mr. Trump made the comments to The Wall Street Journal in his first interview since winning the election. The newspaper said Mr. Obama had urged the   to reconsider repealing his signature health care law, which Mr. Trump said had become “unworkable. ” But in the interview, Mr. Trump said he told the president that he would consider keeping two provisions of the law: the prohibition against insurers denying coverage because of a patient’s   condition and the one that allows parents to keep their children on their insurance plans until they turn 26. The problem: Without a mandate for everyone to buy health insurance, the popular   condition provision could send insurance companies into a tailspin, because their costs would rise with sicker customers, and that would not be offset by healthy consumers forced to buy insurance. Mr. Trump said in an interview to be shown on “60 Minutes” Sunday that Mrs. Clinton “couldn’t have been nicer” in a congratulatory call she made to concede the election, and that Bill Clinton had complimented him on “one of the most amazing” presidential runs he had ever seen. “It was a lovely call, and it was a tough call for her  —   I mean, I can imagine, tougher for her than it would have been for me,” Mr. Trump said. “She couldn’t have been nicer. She just said, ‘Congratulations, Donald, well done. ’” Mr. Trump, who on Thursday said he would seek Mr. Obama’s counsel about the presidency, said he would consider asking for Mr. Clinton’s as well. Mr. Trump also promised that there would be no lapse in health insurance for millions of Americans covered under the Affordable Care Act when he repeals and replaces the law. “We’re going to do it simultaneously  —   it’ll be just fine,” Mr. Trump said. “That’s what I do. I do a good job. You know, I mean, I know how to do this stuff. We’re going to repeal it and replace it. And we’re not going to have, like, a   period and we’re not going to have a   period where there’s nothing. ” Mr. Trump has quietly reached out to Mitt Romney, the 2012 Republican nominee who took an impassioned stand against Mr. Trump during the campaign. The call came after Mr. Trump’s surprise victory on Tuesday night, according to two people briefed on it, although it was unclear how it went and what was said. Aides to Mr. Trump and Mr. Romney did not respond to requests for comment. With her eye on the right’s Paula Jones legal crusade of the 1990s, Gloria Allred, the civil rights lawyer representing women who have accused Mr. Trump of sexual assault, is trying to lure the   into a legal battle before he takes office. Ms. Allred challenged Mr. Trump on Friday to retract his threat to sue his accusers for defaming him and suggested that she might bring a case against him if he refused. She also said that she was prepared to countersue if Mr. Trump made good on the threat. “  Trump now has the opportunity to act presidential,” Ms. Allred said at a news conference with Summer Zervos, the former contestant on “The Apprentice” who said last month that Mr. Trump tried to seduce her and grabbed her breasts in 2007. Ms. Allred cited a precedent for suing a sitting president: Ms. Jones. “Obviously the lawsuit against President Clinton by Paula Jones did proceed while he was in office for actions that were alleged to take place prior to his becoming president,” she said. The Jones case forced Mr. Clinton into a deposition that resulted in his impeachment on charges of lying under oath about an affair with an intern. A sobbing Ms. Zervos sat next to Ms. Allred and offered her own solution: “What happened to a good,   I’m sorry?” Vice   Mike Pence will take the lead on the  ’s transition. Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, who is under a cloud after two aides were convicted of conspiring to shut down traffic on the George Washington Bridge in the   Bridgegate scandal, moves aside. Mr. Trump told advisers that he wanted Mr. Pence’s Washington experience and contacts. An executive committee, which will include members of Congress, will advise Mr. Pence as the process moves forward. See the full story. Corey Lewandowski, who was fired as Mr. Trump’s campaign manager and then went to work for CNN, even as he continued to consult with the campaign, resigned Friday from his political commentator role, the network confirmed. Mr. Lewandowski is expected to take a position in the Trump administration. He was seen in Trump Tower on Wednesday immediately after Mr. Trump’s victory, chatting with senior aides and attending meetings. Mr. Lewandowski did not return calls for comment. Mr. Lewandowski was viewed as a controversial appointment by the network he had signed a nondisclosure agreement with Mr. Trump that prevented him from criticizing the candidate publicly, and he was still being paid by the campaign while working for CNN. Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the incoming Democratic leader, threw his weight behind Representative Keith Ellison of Minnesota on Friday to be the new chairman of the Democratic National Committee, the clearest sign yet that, in defeat, the party will move to the left. After losing the   Rust Belt to Mr. Trump, Democrats could have recruited an   populist like Representative Tim Ryan of Ohio, who represents the Youngstown area. But Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont quickly backed Mr. Ellison, who is black, Muslim and an ardent progressive. Two former governors, Howard Dean of Vermont and Martin O’Malley of Maryland, also expressed interest Friday in being the party’s new committee chairman. So much for a warm welcome to Washington. Groups on social media are trying to coordinate a Million Woman March the day after Mr. Trump’s inauguration in protest of the new president. The march will go from the Lincoln Memorial to the White House on Jan. 21 to show “strength, power and courage. ” Men are also encouraged to attend. “No woman is free unless all women are free,” the organizers of the march wrote on the Facebook page where it is being organized. State groups for the march have already been formed for people to coordinate travel to the capital. However, some fear that the idea could become a logistical nightmare coming so close to Inauguration Day because of the lack of hotel rooms and the potential for clashes with Trump supporters Among the  ’s most pressing questions as he prepares to take office is where he should live. Mr. Trump, a provincial homebody who divides his time among golf courses in Florida and New Jersey and his townhouse apartment in Manhattan, is weighing how much time to spend in Washington, according to two people familiar with his deliberations. One option is spending weekends in New York and most of the week in Washington. Mr. Trump’s wife, Melania, is ultimately planning to move to Washington, according to one person briefed on the discussions, but their    son, Barron, is still in school. Mr. Trump may be triumphant, but Gloria Allred isn’t done with him yet. More than 10 women accused Mr. Trump of sexual assault after a video bragging about his groping habits emerged last month. Ms. Allred, the lawyer who has been working with many of the women, does not appear to be letting the   off the hook. At 2:30 p. m. Eastern time on Friday, she said that she was going to issue a challenge to Mr. Trump at a news conference with one of his accusers who has already come out publicly to tell her story. Ms. Allred would not reveal the name of the woman before the event or share any details of the challenge. Before the election, Mr. Trump said that the accusers were all lying and that he might sue them. Ms. Allred told ABC News on Thursday that her clients had no plans to sue Mr. Trump at this point, but that they would countersue if he did so. Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the departing Democratic leader, added his voice to the postelection statements on the  . Unlike most Democrats, he gave no quarter: Some of the   protesters who have taken to the streets this week are supporters of Mr. Sanders, and on Friday the former Democratic presidential candidate reminded them that creating chaos and disorder should not be their goal. Trump Tower, the skyscraper on Fifth Avenue and the home base of the   has become a fortress in the wake of the election. The lobby, designated a public space by the City of New York, was closed off on Friday morning as Mr. Trump met with advisers. A large police presence surrounded the building. The tower was built with a special permit more than 30 years ago. The city granted Mr. Trump extra space in exchange for maintaining public access to the lobby. Peter Thiel, the Silicon Valley libertarian who secretly financed a lawsuit against the website Gawker, was named a member of the Presidential Transition Team Executive Committee on Friday afternoon.