’  ’ ”   Donald Trump Jr. appeared to confirm on Saturday that his father   indeed suggested that former FBI Director James Comey should   shut down the FBI’s investigation of former National   Security Adviser Michael Flynn. ” ’   In an interview on Fox News, Trump Jr. said President Donald   Trump was ”vindicated” by Comey’’s admission that when he   left the FBI, the bureau wasn’’t specifically investigating the   president in the probe into potential collusion between the Trump   campaign and Russia during the 2016 election. ’ ”   But the president’s son also appeared to corroborate Comey’s   depiction of an Oval Office meeting in which Trump asked the     to call off the investigation into Flynn’s   links to Russia and Turkey, an interaction Comey noted in a   personal memo. ” ’   ”You and I both know my father a long time,” Trump Jr. told Fox   News’’ Jeanine Pirro. ”When he tells you to do something, guess   what? There’’s no ambiguity in it.” ’ ’   ”There’’s no  —   ’’Hey, I’’m hoping  —   You and I are friends. Hey I   hope this happens, but you’’ve got to do your job. ’’ That’’s what he   told Comey. And for this guy, as a politician, to then go   back and write a memo: ’’Oh, I felt threatened. ’’ He felt so   threatened  —   but he didn’’t do anything.” ’ ”   Trump Jr. ’s comments appeared to contradict his father’s   assertions about the incident. The  denied that Trump   asked Comey to drop the Flynn investigation.  ” ”   In a  Trump   suggested that Comey lied under oath when he told the Senate   Intelligence Committee about Trump’s Flynn request. ” ’   ”I didn’’t say that,” Trump . ”And there’’d be nothing wrong with   it if I did say that, according to everybody that I read today,   but I did not say that.” ’ ” Comey explained his concern about   his meetings with the president, saying he did not feel   comfortable being in a room alone with Trump, as he felt the   president was attempting to seek personal loyalty from the FBI   director, despite the department’s duty to remain neutral. ” ”   The former FBI director said he publicly   disclosed memos about his meeting with Trump because he felt   the White House may deceive the public about the nature of the   meetings and Comey’s firing. ” ’   ”First, I was alone with the . .. ” Comey said of   why he took notes. ”The subject matter: I was talking about   matters that touch on the FBI’’s core responsibility and that   relate to the president,   personally. And then   the nature of the person: I was honestly concerned that he might   lie about the nature of our meeting, so I thought it important to   document.” ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tEarlier I sat down with . Take a look!  ’ ’Donald Trump Jr. appeared to confirm on. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’