’  ’ ’   Former   US attorney Preet Bharara on Sunday described   several unusual interactions he had with President Donald Trump   following the 2016 election. ’ ’   In an” Bharara said Trump called   him during the presidential transition ”just to shoot the   breeze,” and described the calls as ”a little bit uncomfortable”   considering the US attorney’’s mandate to remain impartial toward   subjects within his jurisdiction, which included Trump. ’ ’   Bharara, who earned a reputation as the ”Sheriff of Wall Street,”   said he suspected the president attempted to forge a relationship   between the two men. ’ ’   Bharara compared his interactions to those former FBI Director   James Comey said he had in his  in which Trump attempted to   forge a closer bond between himself and Comey, who was   investigating members of the Trump campaign at the time. ’ ’   ”They’’re unusual phone calls and it sort of  —   when I’’ve been   reading the stories of how the president has been contacting Jim   Comey over time, felt a little bit like deja vu,” Bharara said. ’ ’   The former US attorney for the Southern District of New York also   said  the day before  but Bharara said he felt   that it would be inappropriate to return the call, and reported   to the attorney general’’s office that Trump was ”trying to   cultivate some kind of relationship.” ’ ’   Bharara explained that he and the other US attorneys sought to   have ”some kind of arm’’s length relationship” with the president   in order to stay impartial in the event they investigated   interests related to Trump. Bharara also pointed out that during   his presidency, President Barack Obama never called him. ’ ’   ”I’’m not saying that he was going to ask me about a case,   although there was some evidence in the record now that after a   period of time, given the Jim Comey testimony, there’’s some   evidence that Donald Trump didn’’t think anything of asking a high   level law enforcement official to take a particular action that   he wanted for himself on a criminal case,” Bharara said. ’ ”   He pointed out that Trump frequently blasted former President   Bill Clinton for  at an   airport last year, which raised questions about Lynch’s ability   to remain impartial in investigating Hillary Clinton’s use of a   private email server: ” ”   Trump’s decision to fire Bharara earlier this year raised   eyebrows, as many critics pointed out that Trump . Bharara was also    at the time he   was fired,  Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price’s   stock trades. ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tWATCH: In 7. 5 years  never received a phone call from Pres Obama.  He received 3 from Trump in 1 month.  ’ ’Former   US attorney Preet Bharara. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’