’  ’ ”     James Comey’s written statement, released to the public on the     eve of his testimony to the Senate Intelligence Committee, is a     remarkable document.   ” ’     In it, the former FBI director details interactions with the     president of the United States that range from inappropriate to     transgressive —  actions that undermine the rule of law as we     understand it.   ’ ’     Comey recounts a private meeting with President Trump, a     dinner, where the president asked Comey for his personal     loyalty. ”I need loyalty, I expect loyalty,” said Trump,     according to Comey’’s sworn testimony. (Trump’’s personal     attorney issued a statement following Comey’’s testimony saying     that the president ”never told Mr. Comey, ‘I need loyalty, I     expect loyalty’’ in form or substance,” essentially accusing the     former FBI director of perjury before the Senate.)   ’ ’     Comey recounts a second meeting, alone in the Oval Office,     where Trump urged Comey to end an investigation of former     National Security Adviser Michael Flynn. ”I hope you can see     your way clear to letting this go, to letting Flynn go. He’’s a     good guy. I hope you can let this go,” said Trump in Comey’’s     recollection, which Comey says he documented in contemporaneous     notes. (Trump’’s personal lawyer said that the president never     suggested ”Comey let Flynn go,” again, essentially accusing him     of perjury.) In two separate conversations, both over the     phone, Trump reportedly urged Comey to ”lift the cloud” over     his administration and ”get out” that he wasn’’t personally     under investigation.   ’ ’     In his Thursday testimony to the committee, Comey wouldn’’t say     if he felt this rose to ”obstruction of justice,” the charge     that ultimately led to Richard Nixon’’s resignation from the     presidency, saying it was up to the special counsel Robert     Mueller to determine. ”I don’’t think it’’s for me to say whether     the conversation I had with the president was an effort to     obstruct,” he said about the conversation regarding Flynn. ”I     took it as a very disturbing thing, very concerning, but that’’s     a conclusion I’’m sure the special counsel will work towards to     find out the intention and whether that’’s an offense.” He later     said it was ”Mueller’’s job” to ”sort out” whether or not     obstruction has been committed.   ’ ’     Whether or not the president’’s actions ultimately rise to     ”obstruction” according to Mueller’’s investigation, however,     it’’s clear these are serious allegations that suggest a kind of     lawlessness in the White House, from a president with little     regard for the norms that govern conduct in the Oval Office.     Trump’’s alleged demand for Comey’’s personal loyalty —  in a     government where officials pledge allegiance to the     Constitution, not the president —  would itself be a profound     attack on the rule of law. In an ideal world, or at least a     more functional one, lawmakers on both sides would see and     treat this as a crisis that demands resolution, lest it corrode     American democracy.   ’ ”     But that’s not what we have. Just one of our two parties is     interested in checking this president’s abuse. The other, the     Republican Party, is indifferent, content to tolerate Trump’s     misconduct as long as it doesn’t interrupt or interfere with     its political agenda.   ” ’     What defined Thursday’’s hearing, in fact, was the degree to     which Republicans downplayed obvious examples of     bad —  potentially illegal —  behavior and sought to exonerate Trump     rather than grapple with Comey’’s damning allegations about the     president. Sen. James Risch of Idaho, for example, pressed     Comey on his claim that President Trump had asked the then —  FBI     director to drop the investigation into Flynn, suggesting     that —  because Trump didn’’t give a direct order —  we ought to     ignore the clear subtext of the president’’s statement. Sen.     James Lankford of Oklahoma described Trump’’s actions on behalf     of Flynn as a ”light touch.”   ’ ”     Other Republican committee members, like Sens. John Cornyn of     Texas and John McCain of Arizona, steered the conversation     toward the FBI’s investigation of Hillary Clinton’s private     email server. Still others, like Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida,     defended Trump’s actions, blasting leaks to the press as     efforts to undermine his administration.   ” ’  ’ ’     Republican committee members were aided in all of this by the     official organs of the GOP, which treated the hearings as a     distraction —  a partisan frivolity driven by Democrats and the     press. ”Director Comey’’s opening statement confirms he told     President Trump three times that he was not under     investigation,” said a statement from the Republican National     Committee that recommended a strategy of deflection. The RNC     additionally argued that ”Director Comey lost confidence of     both sides of the aisle, and the president was justified in     firing him.” House Speaker Paul Ryan, commenting on the     procedures, defended Trump’’s potentially illegal behavior as     the mistakes of a novice. ”He’’s just new to this, and probably     wasn’’t steeped in   protocols,” he said.   ’ ’     Congress is tasked with executive oversight. Congress is     supposed to intervene when presidents and their officials     violate laws, norms, and standards of conduct. Instead,     virtually the entire Republican Party is running interference     on behalf of a president who, by his own account,     fired the FBI director in order to block the investigation into     Russia and protect his friends and associates. Congressional     Republicans have taken, essentially, a ”see no evil” position     on actions that in any other circumstance they would view as     illegal. For Republicans, it seems, rule of law is less     important than partisan loyalty.   ’ ”     Indeed, there’s every indication that these Republicans see and     understand the problem. Rubio, himself, blasted Trump     throughout the presidential campaign. But he, like his     colleagues, has made a choice to cover for Trump and defend his     conduct, regardless of what that means for the country. It goes     beyond Comey and Russia. Few Republicans have any appetite to     deal with Trump’s financial entanglements, his vast conflicts     of interest, or his   siphoning of federal funds to     his private properties and resorts.   ” ’  ’ ”     James Comey’s sworn Senate testimony, both written and spoken,     is evidence of one political crisis: A president with little     regard for rule of law who sees no problem in bringing his     influence and authority to bear on federal investigations. The     Republican reaction —  the effort to protect Trump and discredit     Comey —  is evidence of another: a crisis of       where the nation’s governing party has opted against oversight     and accountability, abdicating its role in our system of checks     and balances and allowing that president free rein, as long as     he signs its legislation and nominates its judges.   ” ”     Americans face two major crises, each feeding into the other.     Republicans aren’t bound to partisan loyalty. They can choose     country over party, rule of law over ideology. But they won’t,     and the rest of us will pay for it.   ” ”James Comey’s written statement, released to. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’