’  ’ ’   Tech giveth, and tech taketh away. ’ ’   And the formerly   sector has been doing quite a bit of   taking over the past two days. ’ ’   The Nasdaq 100 Index, which is heavily weighted toward tech, has   slipped 3% since Friday, erasing roughly $200 million of market   value amid mounting concerns that the space got overheated on its   way to record highs. ’ ’   The jarring   has highlighted the fragility of a tech   rally driven largely by a handful of     stocks   that are more  than at any other   point in the   bull market. That includes the     FANG stocks  —   Facebook, Apple, Netflix, and Google  —   and others,   like . ’ ”   The sector’s swift fall from grace also shows just how perfect   the conditions were that led to its   dominance  —     conditions that, when unwound, can wreak havoc not just on the   elite few companies leading the rally but also on those clinging   to their coattails. ” ’   ”Just like in the fairy tale, this perfect scenario is unlikely   to last,” Goldman Sachs’’ chief US equity strategist, David   Kostin, wrote in a client note on Friday. ’ ”   He’s describing the ideal conditions that drove a 21%      gain for the Nasdaq 100 through last Thursday. While   profit growth has shown signs of strength, economic conditions   have stayed subdued enough to keep potentially runaway valuations   in check, Kostin said. ” ’   That harmony was disrupted Friday when Robert Boroujerdi, the   head of global securities research at Goldman, published a report    around Facebook, Apple, Amazon,   Microsoft, and Google. The realized volatility for the group of   stocks is lower than that of the broader market, which may be   giving investors the false impression that risks are subdued, he   said. ’ ”   As many traders found out the hard way on Friday, risks are very   much alive and well, even for seemingly unassailable stocks like   Apple. The tech giant has slipped 6. 2% since Friday amid a report   from Bloomberg that the coming iPhone 8 . The company’s woes   continued Monday after Mizuho analyst Abhey Lamba  on the stock to a hold, citing   limited upside. ” ”   The rash of weakness across the tech sector shows just how   precarious sharp shares gains can be and how quickly they can go   south. That dynamic is amplified when a trade is crowded, as     tech was heading into Friday’s reckoning. ” ’   Facebook, Amazon, Google, and Apple represent four of the six   stocks most frequently found in the top 10 holdings for hedge   funds, according to an analysis conducted by Goldman, which   looked at 821 hedge funds holding a combined $1. 9 trillion in   gross equity positions. ’ ”   Tech bears will also point to elevated valuations as a reason for   the sector’s  . After all, the ratio of enterprise value   to sales is the highest since the   bubble when compared   with the benchmark. ” ’   But . Bulls will point to the more traditional      ratio, which remains low relative to history   for both the tech sector and the broader S&P 500. ’ ’   Regardless of which metric gives a superior reading, investors on   Friday elected to immediately pull money out of tech stocks and   ask questions later. ’ ’   The SPDR Tech Select Sector ETF, which tracks tech companies in   the S&P 500, saw a $560 million outflow on Friday, the   biggest   removal since January 30, according to   Bloomberg data. The trailing   outflow amounted to $737   million, which was the biggest weekly figure since the early   2016. ’ ’  ’ ”   The recent market action has left Morgan Stanley unworried. In   fact, the firm wasn’t caught   at all by the sudden   weakness in tech, and it expects matters to worsen in the short   term. ” ’   ”We think this was way overdue given the extreme outperformance   and positioning in technology shares,” a group of analysts led by   Michael J. Wilson wrote in a client note on Monday. ”We don’’t   think it’’s over and expect some   this week.” ’ ”   Wilson, however, highlights the sector’s torrid earnings growth,   which is among the best in the S&P 500. Tech companies in the   benchmark saw 21% profit expansion in the first quarter, the best   of any group, according to Bloomberg data. It’s expected to see   14% earnings growth in the second quarter, almost double that of   the S&P 500. ” ”   Morgan Stanley is also encouraged by the resilience of the   S&P 500, which has slipped only slightly while the Nasdaq 100   has experienced much deeper losses. The firm has a   price   target of 2, 700 for the S&P 500, which would be an 11%   increase from Friday’s close. ” ’   ”The fact that the Nasdaq could sell off 2 percent but leave the   broader S&P 500 essentially flat is a good sign that money is   not leaving equities, but simply repositioning,” Wilson said. ”In   our view, that is supportive of our view that this is a   correction not the end of the bull market.” ’ ’  ’ ’Tech giveth, and tech taketh away. And the. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’