’  ’ ’   The Cold War may have ended in 1991, but the looming threat of   nuclear attack lives on with more than  wielded by nine nations. ’ ’   A   nuclear detonation is one of  that the federal government  with state and city governments  —   just in case. ’ ’   ”National planning scenario   is a   nuclear   detonation in a modern US city,”    a health physicist and radiation expert at Lawrence Livermore   National Laboratory (LLNL) told Business Insider. ”A     nuclear detonation is equivalent to 5, 000 Oklahoma City bombings.   Though we call it ’’’’ it’’s a pretty darn big explosion.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Buddemeier could not estimate the likelihood of such a terrorist   attack, stating ”it’’s one of these things that changes with   time.” ’ ”   However, it’s not an unfounded concern with the proliferation of   fissile nuclear material and  in stockpiles. ” ’   If a nuclear detonation were to occur, and you somehow avoided   the   flash, crushing blast wave, and incendiary   fireball, Buddemeier says there is one simple thing that could   increase your odds of survival. ’ ’   ”Shelter, shelter, shelter,” he says. ”The same place you would   go to protect yourself from a tornado is a great place to go.” ’ ”   What you’d be hiding from is sandy, deadly, and arrives just   minutes. ” ’   A fearsome   of nuclear blasts is called fallout,   which is a complex mixture of fission products (or radioisotopes)   created by splitting atoms. ’ ”   Many of these fission products decay rapidly and emit gamma   radiation  —   an invisible yet highly energetic form of light.   Exposure to too much of this radiation in a short time can damage   the body’s cells and its ability to fix itself, which is a   condition called . ” ’   ”It also affects the immune system and your ability to fight   infections,” Buddemeier says. ’ ’   Only very dense and thick materials, like many feet of dirt or   inches of lead, can reliably stop the gamma radiation emitted by   fallout. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”The fireball from a   explosion is so hot, it actually   shoots up into the atmosphere at over 100 miles per hour,”   Buddemeier says. ”These fission products mix in with the dirt and   debris that’’s drawn up into the atmosphere from the fireball. . ..   What we’’re talking about is 8, 000 tons of dirt and debris being   drawn up into this cloud.” ’ ’   The   fallout can loft more than five miles into the   air. Larger chunks and pieces quickly rain back down, but the   lighter particles can be sprinkled over distant areas. ’ ’   ”Close into the [blast] site, they may be a bit larger than      but really what we’’re talking about are things   like   or   particles,” Buddemeier says, adding that   fallout doesn’’t really resemble ”snow” or dust, as movies often   depict. ”It’’s the penetrating gamma radiation coming off of those   particles that’’s the hazard.” ’ ’   A  for a variety of   reasons, says Buddemeier. For one, ”your ability to know where   the fallout’’s gonna go, and outrun it, are  —   well, it’’s very   unlikely,” he says. Fallout is carried by   winds   that are ”often booking along at 100 miles per hour,” he adds, so   you’’d be very unlikely to   or   the fallout. ’ ’ ’ ’   Plus, streets would probably be full of erratic drivers,   accidents, and debris. Some vehicles may also not work due    or EMP. ’ ’   But most importantly, you shouldn’’t ”assume that the glass and   metal of a vehicle can protect you” from fallout, says   Buddemeier. ”Modern vehicles are made of glass and very light   metals, and they offer almost no protection. You’’re just going to   sit on a road someplace” and be exposed. ’ ’   A much better shelter is likely within a quick walk or run of   wherever you may be, Buddemeier says, and ”the .” ’ ’   Your best shot at survival after a nuclear disaster is to   immediately get into a ”robust structure” and stay there.   Buddemeier is a fan of the mantra ”go in, stay in, tune in.” ’ ’   ”Get inside . .. and get to the center of that building. If you   happen to have access to   areas, getting below ground   is great,” he says. ’ ”   Besides cars, the poorest shelters are made of wood, plaster, and   other materials that don’t shield much radiation (about 20% of   houses fall into this category). Better shelters, such as schools   and offices, are made of bricks or concrete and have few or no   windows. ” ’   Soil is a great shield from radiation, says Buddemeier, so   ducking into a home with a half basement is better than going   into a place with no basement at all. ’ ’  ’ ’   Next, ”stay in 12 to 24 hours,” he says. ’ ’   The reason to wait is that levels of gamma and other radiation   fall off exponentially after a nuclear blast as ”hot”   radioisotopes decay into more stable atoms. This slowly shrinks   the dangerous fallout zone  —   the area where   winds   have dropped the most radioactive fission products. ’ ’  ’ ”   A recent study by Michael B. Dillon, a colleague of Buddemeier’s   at LLNL, suggests that moving to a stronger shelter or basement    if you initially ducked into a flimsy   one. But whatever structure you’re moving to should be less than   five minutes away. (Though if you’re very close to the blast   site, stay put in whatever you can find.) ” ’   Finally, tune in. ’ ’   ”Try to use whatever communication tools you have,” Buddemeier   says, adding that a   radio is a good object to keep   at work and home, since emergency providers would be broadcasting   instructions, tracking the fallout cloud, and identifying where   any safe corridors for escape could be. ’ ’   Despite the fearsome power of a nuclear EMP, which has the   potential to damage electronics, Buddemeier says ”there is a good   chance that there will be plenty of functioning radios even   within a few miles of the event” that can provide ”information on   the safest strategy to keep you and your family safe.” ’ ’   Buddemeier says he hopes no one will ever have to act on his   advice. But if people can find good shelters, he says the blow of   an unthinkable catastrophe could be softened. ’ ’   ”We may not be able to do much about the blast casualties,   because where you were were is where you were, and you can’’t   really change that. But fallout casualties are entirely   preventable,” he says. ”In a large city . .. knowing what to do   after an event like this can literally save hundreds of thousands   of people from radiation illness or fatalities.” ’ ’A small nuclear bomb set off by a terrorist is. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’