’  ’ ” When Jeff Immelt became the CEO of General Electric in 2001,   he was following Jack Welch, one of the   century’s most   prominent corporate leaders. Just days after he took over the   corner office, the US was attacked on September 11. Then came the   financial crisis and the Great Recession. ” ” During his tenure, Immelt has fundamentally reshaped GE,   shedding businesses and reversing a century of   conglomeration.     Immelt is What follows is the transcript of a 2015   conversation between Immelt and Business Insider’s Henry Blodget   about the transformation of GE. ” ’Henry Blodget: I read an article recently that   said that after 14 years at the helm, you have finally remade GE   and made it your own. So what is that? ’ ”Jeff Immelt: In 2001, GE was just a classic   conglomerate: financial services, media,   industrial. I always had an idea to maybe make   the company more focused on those things that I thought we were   best at, and that’s a     global   product and service enterprise. And that’s what we are today. ” ”   We’re the world’s biggest infrastructure technology company. We   more or less had this vision 10 or 15 years ago, but certainly,   the financial crisis accelerated some of the activities along   those lines. ” ’Blodget: If you had the vision 15 years ago, why   did it take so long? ’ ”Immelt: With a company our size it’s always   steps and transitions you make over time. Early on, we started   exiting some of the pieces of financial services, some of the   more commodity businesses, like plastics, and things like that.   And the idea we had was to do this over a relatively long period   of time, keep the earnings power in place but transition the   pieces as time goes on, and again this wasn’t just for GE, but   for the world. ” ”   The biggest impediment  —   or let’s say the biggest challenge and   opportunity  —   was the financial crisis, which in many ways   affected anybody that was in financial services the day Lehman   Brothers went bankrupt. The whole world got   and so that   in some ways made it slower than we wanted it to be but in some   ways made us even more determined to get to the point we’re at   right now. ” ’  ’ ”Blodget: One of the businesses you sold was   NBCUniversal. Was that because it’s a crappy business? ” ”Immelt: No, it’s high margin. It’s an   interesting business. It’s filled with great people. But I could   see technology changing. I didn’t think, in the end, that we were   willing to do all the things that I viewed as being required to   be successful. ” ’   So the two things I viewed as being required to be successful was   either you had to own the distribution the way Comcast has, or   you need to be willing to take any amount of money you have and   invest in transitions to the internet, and I had too many other   opportunities inside the company. ’ ”   So I think in the world we live in today, unlike 10 or 15 years   ago, if you’re not all in seven days a week, 24 hours a day, you   better sell. And that’s the way I viewed NBC. And I thought   Comcast [would be the right fit] really not because I thought   they’d run the parks better, or they’d run the network better,   but really because they control distribution. I felt like they   had one of the models that would have the chance to last the   longest, although not without their own disruption that they   would go through. ” ”Blodget: Your biggest changes by far have come   this year. You obviously followed Jack Welch, probably the most   legendary CEO, who in part was driven by finance and building up   GE Capital. And now you’ve sold that. Given that GE Capital   effectively drove the company over so many years, was that a   tough decision? ” ”Immelt: Those decisions are always tough,   because it impacts people and it is change. But in many ways this   was not that hard because in most companies arithmetic rules, and   if you look at financial services and say, given the current   regulatory environment, the best return I can hope for is single   digits, high single digits maybe. And in our industrial   businesses, we can generate a 17% or 18% return. It’s just   arithmetic in the end. ” ”   So I think the one thing we did right is we picked the right   time. We’ve been able to sell the assets faster at a better price   than we thought. And really it just allows us to position the   company exactly where we want to be. We’re kind of the preeminent   industrial company in the world. That’s a good place for GE to   be. ” ’Blodget: When you say, ”We looked at its   arithmetic. It’’s a   return here. We can get much   better over here,” presumably the buyers are doing the same   analysis? ’ ”Immelt: They have a different cost of capital.   So if you think about who’s buying   assets, it’s   either somebody that’s huge, like Wells Fargo, or it’s a     fund that doesn’t have the same capital   requirements that a large institution has. So I think what we   could see is that people would value these assets higher outside   GE than they would inside GE, and we thought that made it a good   time to go. ” ”   We are almost 140 years old as a company. We started as a     company. If you want to last for a long time, you have   to be fast on your feet. You have to be willing to make these   pivots and transitions, and so for Google to be the same age as   GE, it would have to be the year 2150. They’re probably going to   be doing other things than search in 2150. So I think that’s kind   of the way we look at ourselves as well. ” ”Blodget: My understanding is that a lot of your   big investors were clamoring for you to dump GE Capital as soon   as the financial crisis happened. So as CEO, running a company   like this where you weren’t the founder, but you come in to   control, who’s really driving a decision like that? Is it the   investors? ” ”Immelt: Oh, I mean, look, this is something that   was obvious, really, that didn’t take either investors or anybody   else to tell me this, right? It’s just  —   it was arithmetic. Now,   what I’ve learned over time and, sometimes the hard way, is,   don’t ever start something you can’t finish. Think about what   we’ve done. We’ll execute on almost $300 billion on exits in one   year. That’s amazing, right? So you can’t do that unless the time   is right, and the time was finally right this year. ” ’  ’ ”   If you’re running a company and you think you’re going to read   your strategy in The Wall Street Journal or an analyst report,   you’re probably not going to last long. I think what you have to   do is you have to have a good idea of what you want to do and be   completely transparent with your investors. And accountable for   doing what you say you’re going to do. And I think that’s how   most really good companies operate. ” ”   I don’t own the company. We’re  . We’ve got 5   million shareholders, 8 or 9 billion shares outstanding, so   investors matter. But I think what we want them to do is invest   in our aviation business, or our business around the world, or   our healthcare business, because they know what it’s going to do   and we’re accountable to achieve results. ” ”Blodget: Many US businesses are underinvesting   in research and development. And you have a lot of CEOs who have   driven great stock performance by cutting R&D, and, lo and   behold, the earnings skyrocket for a few years, stock goes up,   everybody thinks they’re a hero, and then pretty soon the company   has nothing to sell because they haven’t been reinventing   themselves. Obviously given the size of GE, you have billions of   dollars that you could spend in future R&D or not spend and   put up huge numbers. How do you handle that  ? ” ”Immelt: We’re valuable because we make really   difficult things. If you could make something with 60 people in a   garage, GE shouldn’t be doing it. But if you make a jet engine,   there’s only like one and a half people in the world that can   make a jet engine. And we are really good at that. If you want to   compete with that, you’ve got to put yourself on a wayback   machine and go back 25 years and invest $1 billion here for 25   years and then maybe, just maybe, you’re going to be able to   compete with us. ” ’   Now, you need to be transparent about that. You need to be   resolute. We need to deliver on our commitments to our customers,   and our investors need to go through that, but that’’s why we say   to an investor, ”That’’s why you should own GE, is because we   invest in R&D but we return that R&D into really great   and profitable products that generate   cash flow,     returns.” We’’re smart about what to do with that cash   and things like that. ’ ’   I’’ve done this for 14 years. Not every day has been perfect. But   I think the CEOs I admire are ones that can walk and chew gum.   They know how to invest for the long term. They know how to be   accountable to their investors. They know how to be transparent   about what their strategies are, and that’’s what we’’ve tried to   do in GE. You talk to Jeff Bezos. Talk to some of the guys that I   admire, you know, they basically say, ”When you’’re willing to   invest in the hard things, that’’s how you create a valuable   company.” ’ ’    ’ ’Blodget: One of the   things you hear every day is, ”Well we’’ve got to maximize   earnings short term,” and then you look over at Amazon, where   they never show earnings, because they take every dollar and they   reinvest it in some project that may or may not pay off in seven   years and here’’s the stock just crashing through a new high every   day because they’’ve come up with these amazing businesses. ’ ”Immelt: There’s a lot of people who have gotten   fired thinking they’re Jeff Bezos. So I don’t want to be Amazon.   I want to be GE. ” ’Blodget: Now it’’s your GE. What is it? What’’s   driving the company now? What is the ”Industrial Internet” you   keep talking about? ’ ’Immelt: I’d say the most interesting thing we’re   working on right now is quite transformative and that is really   driven by technology. Today, everything we sell is surrounded by   sensors and produces data. The data fundamentally is going to be   modeled and turned into performance, outcomes. Basically   industrial productivity has stunk. If you look and say industrial   productivity is 4% from 1990 to 2010, it’’s 1% right now and it’’s   mainly because there’s not enough productivity out of the assets.   So when I talk about the ”Industrial Internet,” it’’s about   capturing data off of machines, turning it back into valuable   insight for our customers and that’’s going to be worth trillions   of dollars in the economy, and I think it’s going to transform   GE. ’ ’   So we’ve got a digital thread that’s running throughout the   company and we have our own   operating system called   Predix. It’s open to developers, and we’re gonna run an operating   system and applications on our assets and on competitors’ assets   and industrial assets. And that, to me, is probably the most   exciting thing I’ve worked on in 30 years. ’ ’Blodget: Give us some specific examples. ’ ”Immelt: A train has 300 sensors. Each route on a   train might pull a terabyte of data. That data can be modeled on   fuel performance, emissions performance. While the train is   running, you can be taking a picture of the track to see if it’s   cracked. You can map that train in a fleet of trains. So that’s   all valuable information all coming off the control center that   we have on the locomotive. ” ’  ’ ”   Now in the rail industry, they have a metric called velocity.   Velocity is the average miles per hour that a locomotive goes   every day. The average locomotive goes 22 mph during the day.   That’s horrible, right? The difference between 23 and 22 for one   Class I railroad is $250 million for earnings. ” ’   What makes Facebook awesome? Facebook is awesome because there’’s   a billion people on Facebook. That’’s the consumer in it. The   Industrial Internet is saying, ”If you can do 1 mph on one Class   I railroad, that’’s a 20% improvement in their profitability.”   That’’s going to be done with information and data. And so we’’ve   said in our company, why not us? We can hire the people. We know   the technology. We understand the assets better than anybody in   the world. ’ ”   And so I think we’re in the first inning of the Industrial   Internet, and it’s going to be different than the consumer   internet. And I think there’s going to be a couple industrial   companies that get transformed as part of that, and we want to be   one of them. ” ’Blodget: And so will you be using those sensors   and so forth to make locomotives with more productivity? ’ ’Immelt: Sure, we already do. ’ ’Blodget: Or will you have a software platform   that will help a train company get to 23? ’ ’Immelt: We do both. So we make the locomotive,   we make the sensors, but we also have an operating system. ’ ’Blodget: And where are we in the life cycle of   that? ’ ”Immelt: I think just beginning. In many ways   this is the beginning. It’s about $5 billion revenue for us. We   think we can maybe double it or triple it in the next five or 10   years. There’s horizontal companies. There’s IBM and Accenture   and the software SAP, and there’s vertical companies  —   people   like GE that know how to do healthcare, or oil and gas, or power.   We’re a vertical company that wants to go horizontal. And I like   our chances as this takes place. ” ’      ’ ”   Blodget: And you’re competing as you hire the folks who are going   to build all that with all these Silicon Valley companies like   Facebook and Google that seem so much sexier. You’ve got these      though, that everybody loves. ” ”Immelt: But the ads are meant to play into that.   So look, the fact of the matter is, people that come to work for   us, they’re going to work for five companies by the time they’re   40. We just want GE to be one of them that they get in their   universe. And the idea is, it’s a neat idea, but you know, having   a   humor I think opens the door for people, and   we liked the way the ads worked. ” ’Blodget: Let’’s talk about tax for a second. It’’s   a huge political issue, inversions, critics talking about ”these   horrible   corporations” who are moving their   headquarters to Europe. GE was pilloried after the financial   crisis for one year not paying income tax because there was a   huge loss the year before. I get it. There’’s been some skirmishes   where Connecticut has raised your taxes and you’’ve threatened to   move out. What’’s the right philosophy with regard to our taxes,   and is there anything to this argument that, ”Hey, sure, you   could hire lawyers to figure out how to avoid that tax, but   that’’s somehow immoral. You should just pay them.” ’ ”Immelt: There are two different things. We need   tax reform in the US. Our tax code is perverted. It was done in   the 1980s. I would say do  . Do whatever was done by   a bipartisan committee in 2010. Do that. We’re OK with that. We   need tax reform. We need to lower the rates, broaden the base, do   away with loopholes. I’m game for that. ” ”   Because of what we’ve done with GE Capital our tax charge will be   $6 billion or something like that. We’ll pay plenty of taxes in   that context. I think the situation in Connecticut is a little   bit divorced from that. Sometimes taxes become a symptom and not   the cause. To a certain extent, sometimes when states can’t solve   pension issues or other   problems, it becomes the   only thing they do. That I think is a slightly different issue   than a federal tax policy that needs to be reformed and should   happen now. ” ”Blodget: It’s considered totally reasonable for   an individual to move from state to state because the state has a   lower tax rate. And yet when a company tries to do it, they’re   pilloried, tax dodging. Is that reasonable? ” ”Immelt: I think it’s perfectly reasonable for   companies to want to compete on a global stage. Basically, after   100 years, I don’t really have American competitors anymore. My   competitors are Siemens or China South Rail or Hitachi. I’d take   any one of their tax policies. Any one of them. I’ll do Germany   today. They have a territorial system. You can repatriate cash.   So I just think, instead of blaming everybody, let’s fix the   system for everybody. ” ”Blodget: I’d love to talk about you for a few   minutes. So you’ve had this amazing career where you’ve done the   corporate American dream  —   go to a great business school, go to a   great company, work your way all the way up, get the corner   office. It’s just incredible. One of the things I’ve heard you   talk about is football. I’ll read you a quote. As I understand,   you played offensive tackle? ” ’    ’ ’   Immelt: Yes, glory position. ’ ’Blodget: You protect the quarterback. ’ ’Immelt: Yes, exactly. ’ ’Blodget: So here’’s the quote: ”I’’m a product of   football, and I owe a great deal of gratitude to the system. What   I learned from football enters my life every day.” So what is   that? ’ ’Immelt: Two things that were seminal for my   education. One was I was a math major. Now I have an   undergraduate degree in math and an MBA. ’ ”   I use my math major every day. I don’t use the MBA quite as much. ” ’   The other is team sports. Team sports are really about mutual   accountability, about building a purpose, about resilience, about   persistence, and I think those are the two things that are kind   of interwoven in me as I grew in my career and have been bedrocks   for me since I’ve been CEO. ’ ’Blodget: Why do you use math and not the MBA? ’ ”Immelt: Companies are about problem solving. In   essence, my intellectual curiosity goes more toward problem   solving versus spreadsheets. I know how to do a spreadsheet. I   know how to read a spreadsheet. I know how to do the mechanics of   what it takes to run a business. I’m just curious about   everything. I can view every situation as a problem to be solved,   and I’ve never lost a passion for that as I’ve grown in my   career. ” ’Blodget: Was there a day in your career at GE   where you said, ”Hey, you know, I could run this place”? ’ ’Immelt: I would say maybe when I was in my 30s,   late 30s or 40, or something like that. I was doing a sales call   with Jack [Welch] and we’’re out visiting customers and I was   able to see him and other CEOs and I said, ”I may not be as good   as him. But I’’m as good as these guys. I can be a CEO if I really   put my mind to it.” And then what happened is I really loved all   my GE jobs and it just was the chronology of my age and when it   was right for him to leave that just happened to sync up. ’ ”   But I never really dwelled on it that much. In other words, I   always knew I could get another job, and I always liked to work.   I always liked the work. Even today, I like the work more than   the job, and I think that’s the way I was in my career as well. ” ’Blodget: And you say, ”It just clicked,” but, in   fact, you had probably one of the most public auditions and   competitions for a job that there has ever been. It was all over   the papers that ”Jack has assembled the three of you and now   you’’re going to fight to the death and one shall be selected and   everybody else gets fired to go run off to another company.” It   was interesting watching from the outside. What is that process   like? It lasted for more than a year where you guys were   practically in a cage match. ’ ”Immelt: Really weird is what I would say. No   one’s ever done it since. ” ’   I always say, ”Look. If we’’re doing something smart, somebody   else’’s copying it, right? And if we’’re not doing something smart,   no one else is copying. This is something that no one ever   copied. Maybe that speaks for itself. ’ ”   I knew if it wasn’t GE, I could go do something. I was never hung   up on that. And even today this is where most of my friends are,   so I didn’t know how to replace the friends I had and all those   other things. But I just didn’t really get sucked up into it.   Everybody else around me was paying attention, including my wife,   who was curious as to whether or not we were going to move or I   was going to get fired or what was going to happen, but for me it   never really impacted me. I didn’t think about it. ” ”Blodget: So then you get the job, you get handed   the reins, again, from Jack. The stock had gone up for however   many thousands of years in a row. And the world ends. And they   hand you the reins. What’s that like, in his shadow, presumably,   for years? ” ’Immelt: It may sound naive or difficult to   believe, but I think like, ”I like the work. I like the people.”   I always knew I was going to have to face comparisons and all   that stuff. But look, if you’’re running GE in any era, it’’s an   interesting job. If you like business, and you like people, this   is pretty much the best job in the world. So I never was   concerned about   or things like that. It was more: Let’’s look   forward. What’’s the company we want to build? Our culture is such   that people don’’t look backward. I want everybody to respect Jack   Welch. Everybody in the company should know him. But we have more   than 300, 000 people. There’’s nobody that’’s going to work this   morning thinking, ”Gosh, I wonder what Jack Welch would do.” ’ ’    ’ ’   Blodget: And so you, as you just reminded us, you run a company   with 311, 000 people. What do you do every day when you run a   company with 311, 000 people? Like what is your job? ’ ”Immelt: You know, I do charts. The way I would   say it is: Pick people, drive growth, solve problems. OK, so   you’ve got three essential things, and I’d say the fourth one is   just governance: interface with investors, boards, the public,   things like that. And, if you have a big company, more times than   not, it works more on trust than formality. ” ”   So I could give you the formal processes, or how we do strategy   or stuff like that, but the place really revolves around having a   core of leaders who come from different backgrounds but have a   shared vision for GE and have common values. I don’t think we   ever think we’re the best at anything. You know, there’s a   healthy cynicism about any form of arrogance that would exist. ” ’Blodget: And we had Jim Cramer earlier who told   us about his day, which is pretty much insane for most human   beings how little sleep the man can run on. Are you in that mold?   What is the typical day? ’ ’Immelt: So Jimmy’’s a little bit crazier than I   am, but I would say first of all, I travel 70% of the time. I go   places. I see things for myself. I tend to travel by myself and   go see different teams. I’’m not a great  . I always   tell people, ”You never meet people at meetings.” ’ ”   When I’m in town, I get up at 4:30 a. m. I’ll do a quick scan of   the news, I’ll exercise, and then kind of an active day. But my   life really revolves around seeing the world, seeing our team,   seeing our customers, seeing our investors, not being in the   office. ” ’Blodget: At GE, do they throw you out at 65, or   could you stay on for longer? ’