’  ’ ”   President Donald Trump has no intention to fire Robert Mueller,   the former FBI director in charge of investigating Russia’s     meddling, the White House said Tuesday. ” ’   ”While the president has the right to, he has no intention to do   so,” said deputy press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders in a   press briefing aboard Air Force One on Tuesday evening. ’ ’   The president is nonetheless angered by the probe, which he has   described as a ”witch hunt,” The . The Times reported Trump has been bothered by   conservative news reports that Mueller was close to fired FBI   director James Comey. ’ ’   White House staffers made a concerted effort to talk Trump down   from ordering that Mueller be fired, the paper said. ’ ’   Mueller, who was appointed to oversee the investigation last   month, was roundly praised by Democrats and Republicans as the   right person for the job, but Trump was not pleased. After   Mueller’’s appointment was announced last month, Trump floated the   idea of firing him, but staffers sought to squash the idea, which   they believed would ”turn a bad situation into a catastrophe,”   The Times . ’ ’   Trump was apparently bothered by reports from conservative   outlets like Breitbart News that attempted to link Mueller to   Comey, the FBI director Trump fired the same month. ’ ’   Comey testified to the Senate Intelligence Committee last week   that he gave one of his associates, a Columbia professor,   permission to share information from memos Comey wrote about his   private conversations with Trump. Comey told senators he thought   publicizing the contents of those memos would prompt the   appointment of a special counsel in the Russia investigation. ’ ’  ’ ”   Trump has made it clear that he is frustrated by the US probe of   Russian interference in the presidential election, which US   intelligence officials said was done to tilt the outcome in   Trump’s favor. Investigators are also probing whether any Trump   campaign associates colluded with Russian officials. ” ’   Trump, according to The Times, has brought up the legal and   political implications of firing Mueller, whom he thinks is   ”incapable of an impartial investigation.” ’ ’   White House staffers have nonetheless sought to talk Trump down   from the idea. ’ ’   Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein  that there was no ”secret plan” to fire   Mueller, nor was there cause. ’ ”   Mueller was already granted a waiver by the Justice Department to   lead the probe despite a possible conflict of interest stemming   from his law firm’s representation of some of the people caught   up in the investigation, including former Trump campaign manager   Paul Manafort and Jared Kushner, the president’s    and   senior adviser. ” ’   Despite that, Trump is stewing over the   investigation   in the same way he did with Comey. ’ ”   The Times boiled down Trump’s thinking: ” ’   Neither Trump nor Attorney General Jeff Sessions have offered   public support for Mueller. Sessions recused himself from Trump     investigations in February. ’ ’   Rosenstein, who appointed Mueller, said on Tuesday: ”As long as   I’’m in this position, he’’s not going to be fired without good   cause.” ’ ’President Donald Trump has no intention to fire. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’