’  ’ ’   Kevin Durant got his title. ’ ’   After making the difficult decision to leave his NBA home in   Oklahoma City to join the team that eliminated the Thunder team   he lead in the   season, Durant received criticism on all   fronts. ’ ”   He couldn’t beat them so he joined them. He was turning heel. He   was giving up on his team to go join a supergroup. ” ’   But it was all in service of one goal  —   an NBA title. ’ ’   In the modern era of ”hot takes” and #NBATwitter, Kevin Durant   was keenly aware of how the modern history of basketball is   written. While the takes are ephemeral, coming and going everyday   to be replaced by another, titles are forever. Ask Magic. Ask   Jordan. And then ask Barkley. They all know. ’ ’   ”Our world revolves around championships,” . ”Who won the championship?   Who will win the championship? If you’’re not the champion, you’’re   a loser. If you’’re not first, you’’re last.” ’ ’   That story was published while the   Thunder were up     on the Warriors in the 2016 Western Conference Finals. That lead   would grow to   before the Thunder fell in seven games, leading   to another   lead that we all know the end of. Just weeks   later, Durant would sign with the Warriors. ’ ’   On Monday night and all throughout The Finals, Kevin Durant   proved not only that he was a champion, but that he was just the   piece the Warriors needed to solve the puzzle of LeBron James and   the Cleveland Cavaliers. ’ ’  ’ ’   In Game 5 he put up 39 points, 7 rebounds, and 5 assists behind      shooting, including going    from behind the arc,   and during the entirety of The Finals he never scored less than   30 for the Warriors. ’ ”   But it wasn’t just the numbers Durant was putting up  —   it was the   moments that he was able to step up that really set the Warriors   up for championship glory this year. ” ’   Take this game as a microcosm. At the start of the fourth with   the Cavs biting at their heels looking to mount a comeback,   Durant was there to shut the door every time. Every time   Cleveland came within reach, KD was there to hit another   contested three and beat the opposition back. ’ ’ ’ ’   Durant also provided the one piece that the Cavs simply could not   match up against. When the Warriors were led by the triumvirate   of Curry, Klay, and Dray, the Cavs had ways of keeping pace. That   group led the Warriors to 73 regular season wins, but when they   met Cleveland in The Finals they were still stoppable. Maybe   Draymond gets in foul trouble. Maybe the Cavs go big. Maybe Kyrie   takes over for a half and goes lights out. ’ ’   But adding one of the best players in the league and allowing   that holy trinity to act as role players in some cases left   Cleveland with no room for error. The Warriors and Kevin Durant   were both well familiar with what it meant to blow a   lead,   and on Monday night showed just how serious they were about never   letting it happen again. ’ ”   Kevin Durant got his championship and was named Finals MVP, both   firsts for his career. And if the Warriors can keep their core   together, it’s quite possible there’s more on the way. ” ’Kevin Durant got his title. After making the. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’