’  ’ ”   RICHMOND, Va. (AP)  —   Virginia’s   lieutenant   governor won the Democratic nomination in the closely watched   race for governor Tuesday, defeating a more liberal insurgent   challenger in a contest to be one of the party’s     against President Donald Trump. ” ’   Ralph Northam defeated former U. S. Rep. Tom Perriello, who ran as   an unapologetic liberal crusader supported by prominent national   Democrats like Sens. Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren as the   best candidate to take on Trump. ’ ’   The   Republican primary remains too close to call. The   general election is expected to be an early referendum on the   president and a preview of what the 2018 midterm elections will   look like. ’ ”   Northam, a   pediatric neurologist, won running as a   pragmatist with state’s Democratic establishment’s firm support.   He has also vowed to fight Trump, but with pledges to work with   state Republican lawmakers on issues like a tax overhaul. ” ”   Virginia is one of only two states electing new governors this   year, and the   contest is likely to draw intense   national scrutiny for signs of how voters are reacting to Trump’s   first year in office. ” ’   Frank Von Richter said he voted for Northam because he likes that   the lieutenant governor is more ”middle of the road” than   Perriello and thinks he will work better with a     General Assembly. The retired Richmond   resident said Northam is strong on issues like education and   health care and will continue Gov. Terry McAuliffe’’s efforts to   bring more jobs to Virginia. ’ ’   ”I think he has the ability to move Virginia forward like   McAuliffe has,” the    said. ’ ’   McAuliffe, who, like U. S. Sens. Mark Warner and Tim Kaine of   Virginia, backed Northam, is barred from seeking a consecutive   term. ’ ’   Perriello made a surprise entrance into the race in January and   faced an uphill climb from the beginning. He energized many      voters who oppose Trump and promised to support a     of progressive policies, like raising taxes on the   wealthy, using public funds for political campaigns or mandating   union membership. ’ ’  ’ ”   Although he received a large amount of attention and praise from   prominent national Democrats, Perriello was ultimately unable to   expand the universe of Democratic primary voters enough to   counter Northam’s advantages. ” ’   Northam had been essentially campaigning for years, making key   contacts with influential power brokers like prominent     politicians and religious leaders, and building   up a large cash advantage that let him outspend Perriello on TV   advertising in the closing weeks of the race. ’ ”   Northam’s campaign ran a more traditional campaign focused   heavily on his biography  —   rural upbringing, Army veteran,   pediatric neurologist  —   as well as his endorsements from key   progressive groups that make up the Democratic base like teachers   and   groups. ” ’   He will face the winner of the Republican primary between former   Republican National Committee Ed Gillespie, former Trump state   campaign chairman Corey Stewart and state Sen. Frank Wagner. ’ ’   ____ ’ ’   Associated Press reporters Ben Finley in Norfolk and Alanna   Durkin Richer in Richmond contributed to this report. ’ ”RICHMOND, Va. (AP)  —   Virginia’s. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’