Thousands of demonstrators filled the streets in several cities across the country for a second night on Thursday in protests against the election of Donald J. Trump as president. In Portland, Ore. the police arrested 29 people while contending with what they described as an “aggressive” crowd of about 4, 000 protesters and widespread reports of vandalism, fires and broken windows. “Due to extensive criminal and dangerous behavior, protest is now considered a riot,” the Portland Police Department said on Twitter. Sgt. Pete Simpson, a police spokesman, said Thursday that there were accounts of protesters with bats and drivers being attacked, but there were no reports of injuries. Photos and videos posted to social media showed vandals   buildings and cars, and the police later said on Twitter that they had deployed “less lethal munitions,” including pepper spray and “rubber ball distraction devices. ” Sergeant Simpson said that the overwhelming number of participants were   citizens but that “a smaller segment are  ” who were hiding in the crowd. “We’re constantly assessing what’s happening and trying to figure out where they’re going next,” he said. Protests took place in other cities, including Baltimore, Denver, Milwaukee, Oakland and Philadelphia. Some demonstrations started early Wednesday after election returns showed the Democratic nominee, Hillary Clinton, losing to Mr. Trump, a Republican. On Twitter on Thursday night, Mr. Trump expressed his dissatisfaction at the protests, which he said were “incited by the media. ” On Friday morning, however, Mr. Trump reversed course with a   post on Twitter that praised the demonstrators and echoed the themes of unity he expressed in his victory speech. “Love the fact that the small groups of protesters last night have passion for our great country,” he wrote. “We will all come together and be proud!” Remigio Mateo, 31, a social worker in Los Angeles, said he was stunned by the results and wondered how a candidate who had used such   language during the presidential campaign could win election to the White House. He wanted to be with people who would understand. When a friend mentioned a protest on Wednesday night at City Hall, Mr. Mateo said he knew he needed to be there. “This election was a real   call that things aren’t anywhere near as progressive as we thought they were,” he said. “I feel confused, disheartened, shocked and afraid of what comes next. I felt I needed to be around others who felt the same way, not only to protest, but to think of how to move forward. ”