’  ’ ’   James Hodgkinson, whom the FBI    as the man who  on Congress members and staffers at a GOP   baseball practice Wednesday morning, was a fierce opponent of   President Donald Trump, according to initial accounts and a   review of his social media profiles. ’ ’   The    from Belleville, Illinois, owned a     business and appeared to be a fervent supporter   of progressive politics and a critic of Trump. ’ ’   House Majority Whip Steve Scalise was among several people shot.   He was ”critically injured and remains in critical condition,”   MedStar Washington Hospital Center tweeted Wednesday afternoon.   He had undergone surgery earlier. ’ ’   Trump  from his injuries but did not name   him. ’ ’   Hodgkinson left a litany of   and   posts   on the timelines of his Facebook and    accounts, and he joined several Facebook groups with names such   as ”The Road to Hell is Paved with Republicans” and ”Terminate   the Republican Party.” ’ ’   ”Trump is a Traitor. Trump Has Destroyed Our Democracy. It’’s Time   to Destroy Trump & Co. ,” Hodgkinson wrote in a March 22 post. ’ ’   Court records show that Hodgkinson had been arrested on charges   of battery and aiding damage to a motor vehicle in 2006. The   charges were dismissed. ’ ’  ’ ’   Hodgkinson was also a  and volunteered for his 2016   presidential campaign. Sanders released a statement on Wednesday   saying he was ”sickened by this despicable act.” ’ ’   Hodgkinson ”wasn’’t happy with the way things were going, the   election results and stuff,” his brother, Michael, . ”Totally out of the blue.” ’ ”   Michael said he wasn’t close with his brother, but that James was   politically active and led a regular life. ” ’   Charles Orear, an acquaintance of Hodgkinson’’s who said he   campaigned with him for Sanders, told  that Hodgkinson was a ”quiet guy” who was   ”very mellow, very reserved.” ’ ’   ”He was this union tradesman, pretty stocky, and we stayed up   talking politics,” Orear told The Post. ”He was more on the   really progressive side of things.” ’ ’ ’ ’  suspect James Hodgkinson  in congressional  belonged to   groups.    ’ ”   One of Hodgkinson’s neighbors, Aaron Meurer, told the  that Hodgkinson had been absent for the past   two months and that he wasn’t sure if Hodgkinson was still with   his wife, Suzanne. ” ”   Hodgkinson’s wife  that he had been living in Alexandria for the past   two months. ” ’   ”She said that he went on a trip. She wasn’’t real specific,”   Meurer said. ’ ’   He added: ”I knew he was a Democrat, a pretty hardcore one. I   know he wasn’’t happy when Trump got elected but he seemed like a   nice enough guy.” ’ ’  ’ ’   The Belleville   on Wednesday released several    Hodgkinson wrote in 2012 that criticized   conservative policies and Republican politicians. ’ ’   In one letter, he railed against the conservative commentators   Rush Limbaugh and Bill O’’Reilly, saying, ”They speak their lies   and hatred and misdirection to anyone who will listen.” ’ ’   In another letter, he called for an overhaul of the federal tax   code to raise income tax rates on the rich and said, ”God bless   the 99 percent.” He also expressed hope that politicians would   soon ”legalize or at least decriminalize marijuana use.” ’ ’   In other etters between 2008 and 2012, reported by  and  Hodgkinson described President George   W. Bush, Vice President Dick Cheney, and their associates as   traitors and accused them of being ”war profiteers.” ’ ’   He also criticized President Ronald Reagan for giving tax breaks   to the rich, saying, ”I don’’t ever again want to hear how great a   president he was.” ’ ’  ’ ’James Hodgkinson, whom the FBI identified. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’