’  ’ ”   The business dealings of Jared Kushner have become a focus in   special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russian   interference in the 2016 election, according to a Washington Post    Thursday night. ” ’   Kushner, the adviser and    of President Donald Trump,   met separately with the Russian ambassador to the US and a   Russian businessman in December  —   interactions that were already   under scrutiny as part of the FBI probe. ’ ’   Sources informed The Post of the financial focus of the   investigation. ’ ’   During the meeting at Trump Tower with the Russian ambassador,   Sergey Kislyak, Kushner reportedly floated the possibility of   establishing a   line of communication between the   Trump transition team and Russia. ’ ”   The White House has said that Kushner’s subsequent meeting with   Sergey Gorkov, CEO of Russia’s   Vnesheconombank, was   unrelated to business matters. But the FBI is  whether Gorkov suggested to Kushner that Russian   banks could finance the business ventures of Trump’s associates   if US sanctions were lifted or relaxed. ” ’’ ’   Kushner attorney Jamie Gorelick pushed back on the report in a   statement Thursday evening. ’ ’   ”We do not know what this report refers to,” Gorelick said. ”It   would be standard practice for the Special Counsel to examine   financial records to look for anything related to Russia. Mr.   Kushner previously volunteered to share with Congress what he   knows about   matters. He will do the same if he is   contacted in connection with any other inquiry.” ’ ”   The development marks another expansion of the FBI probe, whose   scope had previously been limited to uncovering whether Trump’s   campaign colluded with the Kremlin during the 2016 election. The   Post reported on Wednesday that Mueller was  to prove whether the president attempted   to obstruct justice. ” ’   In an   tweetstorm, Trump blasted the investigation   as a ”witch hunt” and a ”phony story.” ’ ’   ”You are witnessing the single greatest WITCH HUNT in American   political history   led by some very bad and conflicted people!”    in a tweet. ’ ”   According to Thursday’s Post report, investigators have also been   looking into the financial dealings of other Trump associates,   including former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn, Trump’s   former campaign chairman Paul Manafort, and former     adviser Carter Page. ” ’The business dealings of Jared Kushner have. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’