’  ’ ’   Doctors caring for Otto Warmbier, the American student imprisoned   in North Korea for 17 months, said on June 15 that the      is in a state of “unresponsive wakefulness. ” ’ ’   Warmbier was detained as he was leaving Pyongyang in January   2016, and was subsequently sentenced to 15 years of hard labor on   the grounds that he attempted to steal a banner containing   political slogans. ’ ’   On June 13, Warmbier was  reportedly in a coma,   and flown to Cincinnati. The Warmbier family  that the North Koreans suggested   Otto’s condition was due to a case of botulism that he contracted   after his trial, combined with the effects of a sleeping pill.    Otto’s father, has refuted that account.   He  that   his son went into a coma the day after his sentencing,   and had remained that way for more than a year before his   evacuation (though his family only found out a week ago). ’ ’   Warmbier’s doctors say they did not find any current signs   of botulism in his system. Instead, they’re suggesting he   suffered extensive brain damage  —   Warmbier has neither spoken nor   demonstrated any purposeful movements since returning to the US. ’ ’   ”This pattern of brain injury is usually seen as result of   cardiopulmonary arrest where the blood supply to brain is   inadequate for a period of time resulting in the death of brain   tissue,” Dr. Daniel Kanter, director of the Neurocritical Care   Program at the University of Cincinnati Medical Center, said in a   press conference, . ’ ’’ ’   Warmbier’s state of “unresponsive wakefulness” most likely means   that he can open his eyes and has functioning reflexes, but is   unresponsive to commands and other tests of consciousness. This   is different than a coma, in which a patient is technically   asleep and keeps their eyes closed. ’ ’   Until 2010, Warmbier’s condition was generally referred to as a   vegetative state, but many  since it suggested that a patient   was somehow similar to a vegetable. The term actually dates back   to the 1800s, when anatomist and pathologist Marie Francois   Xavier divided the human nervous system into animalic and   vegetative functions. Vegetative, according to this early   definition, included many involuntary, automatic functions, like   the cardiovascular and respiratory systems. The animalic   processes were the ones that helped a person perceive and   understand their environment  —   intellect, locution, senses, etc. ’ ’   The modern conception of a vegetative state was first put forth   in a  as a way   to describe medical patients whose sleep cycles and automatic   functions continued somewhat normally, but who didn’t exhibit any   awareness of their own self or external environment. But in the   last five to 10 years, the term ”unresponsive wakefulness   syndrome” has increasingly been used instead of ”vegetative   state” to avoid negative associations. ’ ’   A  of   cases of unresponsive wakefulness syndrome suggests that patients   in this state have neuronal function levels that remain below the   threshold required for them to experience consciousness. Their   chances of recovery therefore depend on how far their neuronal   activity is from this necessary level. ’ ’   Doctors have thus far declined to speculate on Warmbier’s   prognosis. ’ ’Doctors caring for Otto Warmbier, the American. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’