’  ’ ”   Uber wants former customers to know it’s aware it let them   down  —   and that it’s trying to improve.   ” ’   In an email sent to riders in New York City on Friday, the     taxi company ”failed to prioritize” its various   stakeholders. And it laid out some of the ”radical” changes it’’s   making to revamp its workplace. ’ ’   ”In expanding so quickly, we failed to prioritize the people that   helped get us here,” Uber said in the email. ”Ultimately, the   measure of our success is the satisfaction of our riders,   drivers, and employees  —   and we realize that we have fallen   short.” ’ ”   The email was sent to Uber customers in several of its   markets who hadn’t taken rides recently, according a person   familiar with the situation. ” ’   The move is likely a bid to win back riders after a tumultuous   first half of 2017. ’ ’’ ’   The year kicked off with  deleting their account in   reaction to the #DeleteUber movement. After a former employee    detailing the sexual harassment and gender   bias she allegedly experienced at the company, Uber launched an   investigation into its workplace. Later, company CEO Travis   Kalanick was caught on video arguing with an Uber driver   over pay.  ’ ”   On Tuesday, the crises came to a head when former US Attorney   General Eric Holder and his firm released the results of their   investigation  —   a set of  meant to overhaul the   company’s culture. On the same day, Kalanick,  plans to take and indefinite leave of absence   from the company.  ” ”   In its note to riders, Uber acknowledged there’s . Here’s its full apology to customers: ” ’     As a company, we have faced some hard truths. In expanding so     quickly, we failed to prioritize the people that helped get us     here. Ultimately, the measure of our success is the     satisfaction of our riders, drivers, and employees  —   and we     realize that we have fallen short.   ’ ’     After a report of inexcusable workplace harassment surfaced     earlier this year, our board and senior leadership took     immediate action. They asked former U. S. Attorney General Eric     Holder and experts from the law firm Covington & Burling to     conduct a thorough investigation. After four months of review,     this week they released their report, which you can read     .   ’ ’     Today, we are ready to embrace radical change. Uber’s board has     unanimously accepted all 47 recommendations from the Covington     Report and has begun to put them and others into action. We are     committing ourselves to the following:   ’ ’     The past several months have compelled us to redefine who we     are and who we want to be as a company. We are proud of our     thousands of employees across the globe, who are committed to     serving our riders and drivers. As a group, our dedication to     our mission remains strong. You can hear from employees in this     .   ’ ’     There is still more work to be done, but we are confident that     we are taking the first steps to becoming the company you     deserve.   ’ ’     Your New York City Uber Team   ’ ”Uber wants former customers to know it’s. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’