’  ’ ’   A block of ice about the size of Delaware could break off of   Antarctica ”within days,” researchers suggest. And a new   animation shows just how close the humongous iceberg is to   calving. ’ ”   Antarctica’s Larsen C ice shelf  —   one of the largest such shelves   in the southern continent  —   began developing the crack in 2010.   That rift lengthened and widened over the years, but has grown   most rapidly since 2016. In early June,  showed the rift had split, turned north,   and begun moving toward the Southern Ocean. ” ”   Now  of Swansea University in the UK, who is closely   monitoring Larsen C with his colleagues, has released a new   animation of the rift’s rapid growth. ” ’   ”Waiting for the final [jump]!” Luckman said in a  on June 16. ’ ’   The images reveal how the rift ”jumps” as it  slows when it hits denser   ice, and speeds up again when it encounters more weak ice. In the   animation, the ocean is shown in emerald green (top right) the   Larsen C ice shelf is the light blue patch, and the glacier   behind it is white. ’ ’ ’ ”   It’s impossible to say precisely when the rift will snap the ice   off, but Dan McGrath, a scientist with the US Geological Survey,   thinks it won’t be long. ” ’   ”I would expect it to occur quite rapidly, within days or weeks,”   McGrath, who researches Larsen C,  on June 1. The ice block makes up about 10% of   Larsen C’’s total area. ’ ’   According to  the crack   lengthened 11 miles from May 25 to May 31. They also noted that   the rift only has to extend through 8 more miles of ice for it to   birth a colossal iceberg. ’ ’   ”The rift tip appears also to have turned significantly towards   the ice front, indicating that the time of calving is probably   very close,” wrote Luckman and O’’Leary, who collaborate on the   Impact of Melt on Ice Shelf Dynamics and Stability project, also   known as Project MIDAS. ”There appears to be very little to   prevent the iceberg from breaking away completely.” ’ ’  ’ ’   More recent satellite data, released on June 6 and June 12,   suggests the rift has shown ”no significant change . .. since May   31” according to Project MIDAS  (which is run by O’’Leary). He    that new satellite data wouldn’’t arrive in until Sunday, June 18. ’ ’   When the iceberg does shed, it will not significantly raise sea   levels, since it’’s already sitting in the ocean. But Luckman and   O’’Leary said that without the    iceberg, the rest of   Larsen C ”will be less stable than it was prior to the rift”. ’ ”   Put another way: There’s a slim chance that the entire Larsen C   ice shelf, and an ancient glacier behind it, could later   disintegrate and fall into the sea. ” ”   The chaos wouldn’t be unprecedented in recorded history. In 2002,   a neighboring ice shelf called Larsen B collapsed and broke up in   the Southern Ocean. If Larsen C and its accompanying glacier   collapse, sea levels might rise by up to four inches. ” ”   More details about the rift in Antarctica’s Larsen C ice shelf   are available in . ” ’A block of ice about the size of Delaware could. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’