’  ’ ’   Milwaukee County Sheriff David Clarke will not join the   Department of Homeland Security as an assistant secretary, his   adviser Craig Peterson told  on Saturday. ’ ’   ”Late Friday, Milwaukee County Sheriff David Clarke Jr. formally   notified Secretary of Homeland Security John F. Kelly that he had   rescinded his acceptance of the agency’’s offer to join DHS as an   assistant secretary,” Peterson said. ’ ’   ”Sheriff Clarke is 100 percent committed to the success of   President Trump and believes his skills could be better utilized   to promote the president’’s agenda in a more aggressive role.” ’ ’   Clarke previously said he would start the DHS job in June. ’ ”   The news comes just weeks after Clarke was embroiled in a    controversy, after CNN’s KFile reported that he   had failed to properly cite sources in at least 47 parts of his   master’s thesis. ” ’’ ’   Clarke has also faced longtime criticism over the conditions at   the Milwaukee County Jail, which he oversees. Since April 2016,   one newborn baby and three inmates have died at the jail, and   prosecutors have alleged that  was caused by dehydration after jail staff   cut off water access to his cell. ’ ’   Clarke’’s job offer at the DHS was never publicly announced by the   Trump administration, but Clarke had announced on a  in May that he accepted the post. He   told WISN host Vicki McKenna he would work as a ”liaison with the   state, local, and tribal law enforcement” in the Office of   Partnership and Engagement. ’ ’   Soon after Clarke’’s announcement, dozens of  Homeland Security Secretary John   Kelly to reject the appointment, citing concerns over the   Milwaukee County Jail deaths as well as Clark’’s previous   criticisms of the Black Lives Matter movement, which he has   called a ”hateful ideology.” ’ ’   Clarke, who has been a prominent Trump surrogate since the early   days of his presidential campaign, met with President Trump in   Wisconsin on Tuesday to discuss other potential roles he could   fill, the Post reported. ’ ’   ”The sheriff is reviewing options inside and outside the   government,” Peterson said. ’ ’   ”Sheriff Clarke told Secretary Kelly he is very appreciative   of the tremendous opportunity the secretary was offering, and   expressed his support for the secretary and the agency.” ’ ’Milwaukee County Sheriff David Clarke will not. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’