’  ’ ’   (Reuters)   A    American Muslim girl was beaten and   abducted after leaving a mosque in Virginia on Sunday by a man   who police later arrested on suspicion of murder after her body   was found dumped in a pond, authorities said. ’ ’   The attack spurred an outpouring of grief and horror in a Muslim   community that has been gathering to pray at the All    Area Muslim Society mosque about 30 miles   outside Washington in observance of the last 10 days of Ramadan. ’ ’   The attack happened early on Sunday after the victim and several   friends walking outside the mosque got into a dispute with a   motorist in the community of Sterling, the Fairfax County Police   Department said in a statement. ’ ’   At one point, the motorist got out of his car and assaulted the   girl, police said. ’ ’   The teen was reported missing by her friends who scattered during   the attack and could not find her afterwards, touching off an     search by authorities in Fairfax and Loudoun counties. ’ ’’ ’   At around 3 p. m. the remains of a female believed to be the teen   victim were found in a pond in Sterling, police said. ’ ’   During the search for the missing teen, authorities stopped a   motorist ”driving suspiciously in the area” and arrested the   driver, later identified as identified as Darwin Martinez Torres,   22. ’ ’   Police obtained a murder warrant that charges Torres for her   death, the Fairfax County Police Department said. ’ ’   A police spokeswoman told reporters the attack followed some sort   of dispute between the man and the girls, and authorities had not   ruled out hate as a motivation for the attack. ’ ’   The number of   bias incidents in the United States   jumped 57 percent in 2016 to 2, 213, up from 1, 409 in 2015, the   Council on   Relations advocacy group said in a   report last month. ’ ”   While the group had been seeing a rise in   incidents   prior to Donald Trump’s stunning rise in last year’s presidential   primaries and November election victory, it said the acceleration   in bias incidents was due in part to Trump’s focus on militant   Islamist groups and   rhetoric. ” ”   In an incident in London on Monday, a van ploughed into   worshippers leaving a mosque, killing at least one person and   injuring several in what Britain’s largest Muslim organization   said was a deliberate act of Islamophobia. ” ’   Isra Chaker, a person who said in a Facebook post that she was   close to a family friend of the victim in the Virginia incident,   said the driver came out with a baseball bat and began swinging   it at the girls, Chaker said. ’ ’   ”She then went missing (presumably   by the   suspect) and was found dead this afternoon,” Chaker said. ’ ”   An online fundraiser for the girl’s family had raised $61, 606 by   Sunday evening. ” ”   Police said a medical examiner will conduct an autopsy to confirm   the victim’s identity and cause of death, though detectives   believe the body found in the pond was the missing girl. ” ’   (Reporting by Eric M. Johnson in Seattle; Editing by Robert   Birsel) ’ ’(Reuters)   A    American Muslim girl. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’