’  ’ ”   A prominent member of President Donald Trump’s legal team on   Sunday denied that the president is under criminal investigation   for obstruction of justice over his firing of former FBI Director   James Comey, directly contradicting a blockbuster Washington Post   report that said the president is now a target of the   investigation. ” ’   In  on ”Meet The Press,” Jay Sekulow repeatedly   denied that Trump was the subject of special counsel Robert   Mueller’’s criminal probe into Russia’’s meddling in the 2016   election, even when host Chuck Todd pointed out that  seemed to confirm that he was a   target of the investigation. ’ ’   ”Then why did he say he was?” Todd asked. ”I mean, was this just    ? Are we not to take him at his word?” ’ ’   Sekulow insisted that Todd was ”reading more to the tweet than   what’’s there.” ’ ’   ”The president’’s tweet was in response to” Sekulow replied. ”The Washington   Post issued a story that had five anonymous sources, which they   never identified what agencies those sources originated out of.   The response from the president, using social media, was about   that story. But let me be very clear here, as it has been since   the beginning, the president is not and has not been under   investigation for obstruction.” ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tI am being investigated for firing the FBI Director by the man who told me to fire the FBI Director! Witch Hunt’t’t’ ”   When Sekulow insisted that Trump fired Comey at the   recommendation of the deputy attorney general, Todd noted ;that   Trump himself told NBC anchor Lester Holt he planned on firing   Comey regardless of the deputy attorney general and the attorney   general’s recommendation. ” ’   ”The question is going to be though, what was the reason behind   the firing?” Todd asked. ”Was the reason having to do with his   handling of the Russia investigation, or was it having to do with   his handling of the Clinton email investigation? The reason I ask   you this is the memo that was written, the rationale by the   deputy attorney general, did not discuss Russia. The president,   in his interview with my colleague Lester Holt, said it was about   Russia. Which is it?” ’ ”   Sekulow insisted that Trump fired Comey over his handling of the   investigation into Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email   server when she was secretary of state  —   for which she was not   charged  and pointed out that Trump told Holt that firing   Comey would likely lengthen the investigation. ” ’   ”He was fully aware that if, in fact, he took this action, he   would see a lengthening or could see a lengthening of the   process,” Sekulow said. ”So you cannot view this, in my mind,   Chuck, or in any reasonable person’’s mind, especially someone   that’’s representing the president of the United States, these   things in a vacuum. There’’s multiple factors that come into   exist. But let me tell you the factor that came into exist here.   The president made the determination to remove the director of   the FBI after consultation with others. And that determination is   protected by the constitution.” ’ ’   Todd continued to push Sekulow, asking before the interview   closed why Trump seemed obsessed with the investigation even   though he insisted he was innocent. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Why does the president seem, act as if he is so concerned about   this investigation if he did nothing wrong?” Todd said. ”If this   investigation is going to find  —   and he knows he did nothing   wrong, then he shouldn’’t be afraid of this investigation. It’’s   being led by professionals, a guy like Robert Mueller who is not   a political guy, you know he’’s not a partisan guy. I’’m just   curious, why doesn’’t the president embrace this investigation if   he’’s innocent?”   ”Because every day, The Washington Post and The New York Times   are utilizing supposed leaked information about supposed   investigations of the president of the United States,” Sekulow   replied. ”So his legal team and the president responds.” ’ ”   Todd was one of many cable news personalities who clashed   with Trump’s personal attorney over his insistence that the   Washington Post’s report was inaccurate. Sekulow made similar   claims on CNN, Fox News, and CBS News. ” ” noting   the president’s apparent confirmation of the investigation. ” ’   ”With all due respect, the president said ’’I am being   investigated’’ in a tweet, and people take his word on that,”   Tapper said. ”But you’’re his attorney. You’’re saying that the   president, when he said that, was not accurate.” ’ ’   ”It was 141 characters,” Sekulow replied. ”There’’s a limitation   on Twitter, as we all know. . .. The president issued that tweet,   that social media statement, based on a fake report, a report   with no documented sources, from the Washington Post.” ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’t. to  : ”so the President said he was under investigation, even though he isn’’t?”   ’ ’ ’t’t’tNew on : Trump lawyer says President is not under investigation, despite tweets. Read more here:   ’ ”A prominent member of President Donald Trump’s. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’