’   NBC anchor Megyn Kelly faced more than a week of withering   backlash over her decision to interview Alex Jones,    the   founder of Infowars. com, a site that has   perpetuated conspiracy theories about   and the 2012 school   shooting in Newtown, Connecticut. ’ ’   Kelly was uninvited as a guest at a gala hosted by relatives of   the victims of the Sandy Hook elementary shooting in Connecticut,   which left 20 children dead, and J. P. Morgan pulled its ads from   the broadcast. ’ ”   But when the piece aired Sunday evening, most of the   reviews from a skeptical audience were positive. Observers   heaped praise on the fact that Kelly’s highly edited piece   frequently reminded viewers of Jones’ conspiracies about   Newtown, the September 11 terror attacks, and a host of other   topics.  ” ’   ”If this had been a ’’60 Minutes’’ interview, Jones did enough   shuffling to look plenty squirrelly, without delivering what   might be called a classic Mike Wallace moment,” CNN critic Brian   Lowry . ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’t. scored high marks with Alex Jones interview. Nailed the scumbug. ’t’t’ ’ ’t’t’tSeeing a lot of positive reviews like this  ’ ’ ’t’t’tyup good work by . Would love to know how much editing was done following public outcry.   ’ ” ’t’t’tThis intvw was always supposed to be 4 ppl who didn’t   knew who Jones was. For those ppl, they saw a sweaty conspiracy theorist’t’t” ” ’t’t’tWatching  interview with Alex Jones, I’m even more convinced that her piece wasn’t just ok to do, but important journalism. ’t’t” ’  Kelly did more to expose the real Alex Jones and than anyone else on TV. Solid journalism. ’t’t’ ”   Others, like Washington Post media writer Margaret Sullivan and   Matthew Gertz of the   watchdog group Media Matters,   said that although Kelly landed blows, Jones would   ultimately benefit from some of the network’s exposure. ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tWashington Post media columnist and former public editor of the New York Times  ’ ” ’t’t’tMy take on Megyn Kelly’s Alex Jones segment, a competent piece that underscores the effectiveness of public pressure   ” ’   For all the hype that Jones built up to the broadcast, his   reaction seemed somewhat subdued considering his historic rants   against critics of his work.  ’ ’   On a livestream airing after the broadcast, Jones oscillated   between opinions about the segment. ’ ’   At points, he lamented the editing of the piece,   telling viewers that they were watching his unedited   livestream and urging Kelly to disavow what he said were threats   he received on social media during the broadcast. But at other   points, he declared victory, popping a bottle of champagne while   simultaneously arguing the broadcast was a letdown. ’ ’   ”It was kind of a ” Jones said. ”Everyone who has   texted me says it was nothing.” ’ ”   Although the segment delivered little in terms of new   information  —   Jones had previously been confronted about   many of the conspiratorial claims on which he was pressed  —     Kelly’s segment addressed some of the concerns critics expressed   leading up to the broadcast. ” ”   The New York Post  that the   piece was edited again this week to take a more critical   tone on Jones’ work, while    audio leaked by   Jones himself showed Kelly .  ” ”   Despite the public outcry, Kelly’s team largely avoided the   negative reviews that have plagued other major newscasters   who attempted to confront   personalities. ” ”   Earlier this year, CBS’ Scott Pelley attempted to confront     provocateur Mike Cernovich over spreading wildly   unproven claims about Hillary Clinton’s health. But critics    the interview, arguing Pelley was clearly unprepared.   Cernovich quickly flipped the anchor’s claims on their head when   Pelley admitted the only information he had about Clinton’s   health came from the campaign. ” ’NBC anchor Megyn Kelly faced more than a. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’