’  ’ ’   LONDON  —   The police said the van ploughing into pedestrians near   the Finsbury Park Mosque in North London is being treated as a   ”terrorist attack.” Prime Minister Theresa May will chair an   emergency meeting later on Monday. ’ ’   A man driving a white van mounted a pavement and hit a group of   worshippers exiting the mosque just after midnight.  The   attack has killed one man and injured 10 others, so far. A      man has been arrested. The police confirmed at 6:53   a. m. BST (1:53 a. m. ET) that they are not looking for anyone else   in connection to the attack. ’ ’ said a van intentionally ran over   worshippers as many of the victims are believed to have just   left evening prayers at the Muslim Welfare House after breaking   the Ramadan fast.  ’ ’   The Mayor of London, Sadiq Khan, said in a statement: ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’ ’ ’Man arrested after people are run over by a car near Finsbury Park mosque   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Jeremy Corbyn, leader of the Labour Party and the MP for the   constituency where the mosque is in, said in an emailed   statement: ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   After the van hit the crowd in Finsbury Park, there was a number   of claims being reported by the media, citing eyewitness reports: ’ ’   For example, this eyewitness was telling Sky News and others that   emergency services took nearly an hour to get to the incident and   victims and questioned why the emergency response was slow   compared to the London Bridge attacks: ’ ’  ’ ”   One visibly shocked Muslim man in mid 30s, who declined to give   name, told Business Insider’s senior reporter Rob Price that he   was angry with police, because they allegedly took over   30 minutes to arrive.  ” ’ All these were confirmed as false, by the   police. ’ ’   Deputy Assistance commissioner Neil Basu said: ’ ’   Basu also said that  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Alex Spurgeon, a Finsbury Park resident, and a friend told   Business Insider’s senior report Rob Price at the scene: ” ”   The central area of Finsbury Park is still filled with crowds,   reports BI’s Rob Price. He said that private funeral director’s   van arrived at 9 a. m. BST on Monday towards the scene: ” ’  ’ ’   Finsbury Park is also a key transportation hub for the tube,   buses and trains. Transport for London left the following sign   outside the tube station: ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tAt the entrance to Finsbury Park tube station   ’ ’   ’ ’   David Curtis, 57, a practicing Jew, lives in Finchley, North   London heard about the attack on the news this morning and   came after synogague. He told BI’’s Price: ”It just feels it’’s   exactly what the terrorists have been trying to achieve . .. They   seek to divide communities.” ’ ’   He quoted Jo Cox, the MP that was murdered last year, who said   ”there’’s more that unites us than divides us.” He said ”we should   hold onto that.” ’ ’  This is a developing story . ..  ’ ’A van ploughed into pedestrians near Finsbury. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’