A federal judge in Michigan on Thursday ordered that bottled water be delivered to residents of Flint, Mich. more than two years after the city’s switch to an untreated source resulted in contaminated and undrinkable water. Under the ruling by Judge David M. Lawson of Federal District Court, state and city officials must immediately begin providing each Flint resident with at least 96   bottles of water per week as the city works toward a permanent solution. “How the water crisis is resolved ultimately will be left to the City of Flint and the State of Michigan,” Judge Lawson said in his preliminary injunction. “Nonetheless, there is an immediate danger to Flint residents. ” The city is not required to deliver water to residents whose homes have properly installed and working filters, are unoccupied or decline the service. Judge Lawson also ordered that officials provide information in multiple languages, including English, Spanish, Chinese, Arabic and Hmong, to residents about lead levels of city water and how to install filters that properly reduce the contamination. Lawyers for the city and state could not immediately be reached for comment about whether they plan to appeal the ruling. The ruling came as a result of a lawsuit filed by Concerned Pastors for Social Change Melissa Mays, a Flint resident the American Civil Liberties Union of Michigan and the Natural Resources Defense Council. “This is immediate, emergency relief and it’s an emergency situation,” said Dimple Chaudhary, a senior attorney with the defense council. Flint’s water crisis can be traced back to April 25, 2014, the day the city switched its water supply from Detroit’s treated water to its own polluted river. City officials failed to treat the water from the new source in a way that would prevent lead from leaching into it, and the city and state played down the problem for months. Flint had fought the request for deliveries of water, arguing that residents had sufficient access to clean water from distribution centers throughout Flint and at home using filters that the city provided. Judge Lawson disagreed. Residents struggled to properly install the filters because of language barriers, old age, cognitive barriers or a lack of necessary tools, the judge said. Others struggled to retrieve water even from the distribution centers. “It is clear that some residents, who are actively seeking safe drinking water, are encountering great difficulty,” he said. The ruling is effective immediately. Judge Lawson also said officials must provide a status update on their efforts by Dec. 16.