’’ ”A terrifying   blaze broke out at a hotel in Dubai in the United Arab Emirates on Thursday. The hotel is close the Burj Khalifa, the world’s tallest skyscraper at 905 yards (828 meters) where a massive New Year’s fireworks show took place to ring in 2016 there.” ’Immediately, onlookers began posting that The Address Downtown Dubai hotel was engulfed in flames reaching up over a dozen stories.’ ’The fire, thought to have originated from outside the 20th story of the hotel, was said to be 90% contained with internal fire extinguishers are keeping the flames outside, according to the .’ ’However, just as the flames were dying down and the new year quickly approached, another explosion apparently rocked the building.’ ’’ ’  VIDEO: Large Explosion Moments Ago During Dubai Hotel Fire  WATCH >>   ’ ’Fourteen people are said to have sustained minor injuries so far. One person reportedly had a moderate injury and another suffered a heart attack due to overcrowding and smoke inhalation, according to the .’ ’Burning debris could be seen raining down from the building as firetrucks initially race to the scene. A crowd of onlookers gathered to watch the inferno, but were asked to leave, .’ ’’ ’Several people uploaded videos of the fire.’ ’’ ’ ’t’t’tJeebus.  ’ ’’ ’  right now  ’ ’’ ’ ’t’t’tDubai right now! !! Address Hotel on fire  ’ ’Dubai planned to wow spectators with three separate firework displays. The show began at the Burj Khalifa, which organizers said was fitted with 400, 000 LED lights. They said 1. 6 tons of fireworks would be used in the display.’ ’From there, the fireworks were to light up the sky around the   Burj Al Arab and later down near the Dubai Marina. Fireworks also will be on display in Abu Dhabi, the capital of the country of seven emirates.’ ’An official from the Dubai Civil Defence told  that, ”three teams are battling the flames, and they almost have it under control,” adding that the hotel had been evacuated.’ ’Despite the shock and injuries caused by the fire, the massive firework display is currently taking place right across from the smouldering Address hotel.’ ’’ ’ ’t’t’tPretty amazing split screen from   ’ ’’ ’ ’t’t’tA fire has been reported in the Address Downtown hotel. Authorities are currently   to address the incident swiftly and safely  ’ ’’ ’This story is developing. ..’