’  ’ ’   Jared Kushner, senior adviser to President Donald Trump, is   considering revamping his legal team as the investigation into   Russian interference in the 2016 election widens its scope,    on Monday, citing three people briefed on the   matter. ’ ”   Kushner, who is also Trump’s    came under scrutiny last   month when  that he proposed setting up a secret back channel of   communications, using Russian facilities, between Trump and   Moscow during the transition period. The Post reported that   Kushner had the alleged discussions with Russia’s ambassador to   the US, Sergey Kislyak, who is a known Russian spy. ” ’   Although administration officials  and said they ”would not be concerned” about a back   channel,  at the development, pointing out that   while back channels are indeed normal, it was not normal to ask   to use the facilities of a hostile foreign power to conduct such   communications. The Post’’s story came soon after it reported that   the FBI’’s Russia investigation, spearheaded by special counsel   Robert Mueller, had  to include   a senior White House official as a ”person of interest.” ’ ”   It was after these reports emerged, The Times said, that   Kushner’s allies began searching for more   and   experienced attorneys to represent him. Kushner is currently   represented by Jamie Gorelick, who is a partner at the firm   WilmerHale. Mueller was also a partner at the firm, and he   resigned from his position after he was chosen as special counsel   in the FBI’s Russia probe. ” ’   In addition to Kushner, the firm also represents the interests of   Ivanka Trump and former Trump campaign manager Paul Manafort.   Gorelick urged Kushner to consider choosing someone else to   represent him at first, The Times reported. ’ ’  ’ ”   As the Russia investigation continues, Kushner’s allies have   reportedly raised questions about the relationship between   Gorelick and Mueller. And in recent days, Kushner has met with at   least one   trial attorney, according to people   familiar with the situation. Kushner released a statement from   Gorelick saying that the meetings took place in an effort to seek   advice on the issue, not replace or supplement Gorelick’s team. ” ’   ”After the appointment of our former partner Robert Mueller as   special counsel, we advised Mr. Kushner to obtain the independent   advice of a lawyer with appropriate experience as to whether he   should continue with us as his counsel,” Gorelick’’s statement   read. ’ ”   People familiar with the matter said that Kushner’s confidants   were specifically scoping out courtroom litigators. Abbe D.   Lowell, a prominent trial attorney who represented Republican   lobbyist Jack Abramoff in a 2005 corruption scandal and is   currently representing NJ Sen. Robert Menendez against corruption   charges, was reportedly one of the people contacted. ” ”   As part of a   inquiry into the Trump campaign’s   possible ties to Russia, FBI and congressional investigators are   also reportedly looking into  a Russian banker who is a close confidant to   Russian president Vladimir Putin, in December. The meeting   between Kushner and Gorkov would have taken place shortly after   Kushner’s alleged meeting with Kislyak. ” ”   Gorkov was tapped by Putin to head up Russia’s Vnesheconombank in   January 2016, and Reuters reported that the FBI is examining   whether Gorkov suggested to Kushner that Russian banks could   finance Trump associates’ business ventures if US sanctions were   eased. ” ’Jared Kushner may be considering new legal. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’