’  ’ ”   Fox News anchor Chris Wallace grilled an attorney for President   Donald Trump over the Russia investigation and the   president’s  for potential obstruction of   justice by firing former FBI Director James Comey. ” ’   In a heated interview on ”Fox News Sunday,” Trump attorney Jay   Sekulow insisted  —     —   that the   president was not under criminal investigation, despite reporting   from The Washington Post and the president’’s own tweet that   suggested he was a target of the investigation. ’ ’   The interview became lively when Sekulow seemed to   contradict himself, suggesting that Trump was under   investigation after firing Comey on the recommendations   of the attorney general and deputy attorney general. ’ ’   ”He takes the action that they also, by the way, recommended. And   now he’’s being investigated by the Department of Justice,”   Sekulow said. ”So he’’s being investigated for taking the action   the attorney general and deputy attorney general recommended him   to take by the agency that recommended the determination.” ’ ’   ”You’’ve now said that he’’s being investigated,” Wallace said. ’ ’’ ’   ”No, Chris. Let me be crystal clear so you completely understand:   We have not received nor are we aware of any investigation of the   president of the United States,” Sekulow replied. ’ ’   ”Sir, you’’ve just said two times that he’’s being investigated,”   Wallace said. ’ ’   ”hat an agency told him to take. That is protected   under the constitution.” ’ ’   When Wallace said Sekulow did not appear to know whether Trump is   under investigation for obstruction of justice, Sekulow   sarcastically suggested that he had not been informed that   special prosecutor Robert Mueller was investigating the   president. ’ ’   ”You’’re right, Chris, I can’’t read the mind of the special   prosecutor, but I have not been notified, no one has been   notified that he is,” Sekulow said. ’ ’   After the Fox News anchor pressed Sekulow over whether Trump was   going to fire deputy attorney general Rod Rosenstein and Mueller,   Sekulow attempted to end the line of questioning. ’ ’   ”Here’’s what you’’re trying to do, Chris,” Sekulow said. ’ ’   ”Now you’’re reading minds again,” Wallace said. ’ ’   ”No, Chris, I deal with fact and law,” Sekulow said. ”You’’re   asking me to read people’’s minds.” ’ ’   ”Well then, don’’t tell me what I’’m trying to do, because you   don’’t know what I’’m trying to do,” Wallace replied. ”Actually,   what I’’m trying to get is a straight answer out of you.” ’ ”   Sekulow  on several political talk shows on Sunday to   argue that contrary to the president’s tweet, the Trump team did   not know if the president was under investigation by Mueller. ” ’Fox News anchor Chris Wallace grilled an. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’