’’ ”  mogul Donald Trump opened his   rally by blasting the Obama administration’s approach to Iran and the Islamic State terrorist group.” ’”I’’m pretty good at signals, and I see a lot of things happening,” Trump said at a campaign stop in Biloxi, Mississippi.’ ’The Republican presidential   pointed to Iranian protesters ransacking the Saudi Embassy in Tehran  after Saudi Arabia executed a prominent Shiite cleric.’ ’”One thing I see out there just happened today in Tehran,” Trump said. ”They’’re burning down the Saudi Embassy, you see that? Now, what that is is Iran wants to take over Saudi Arabia. They always have. They want the oil, OK? They’’ve always wanted that. ”’ ’In order to tout his predicting ability, Trump cited his past calls for the US to bomb the oil assets of the Islamic State group, also known as ISIS.’ ’”I’’ve predicted a lot of things, you have to say, including, ’’Get the oil, take the oil, keep the oil. ’’ Right? I’’ve been saying that for three years, and everybody said, ’’Oh, I can’’t do that. I mean, this is a sovereign country. ’’ There is no country!” Trump exclaimed.’ ”He then blamed US President Barack Obama and his former secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, for the Islamic State’s rise.” ’”They have a bunch of dishonest people,” he continued. ”They’’ve created ISIS. Hillary Clinton created ISIS with Obama  —   created with Obama. But I love predicting because you know, ultimately, you need somebody with vision. ”’ ’Watch below:’ ’’ ’The Republican billionaire demanded that Clinton apologize, but her campaign : ”Hell no. Hillary Clinton will not be apologizing to Donald Trump for correctly pointing out how his hateful rhetoric only helps ISIS recruit more terrorists. ”’ ’After Clinton said Trump had generally displayed a  Trump went after her husband, former US President Bill Clinton. Trump recently proclaimed that the former president has  referring to the Monica Lewinsky scandal, among other things.’ ’At his Saturday rally, Trump also blasted Hillary Clinton for  on her husband’’s paid speeches while she was secretary of state. As he has done frequently before, Trump further asserted that Clinton ”shouldn’’t be allowed to run” because of the private email system she used for her State Department work.’ ’”She should be in jail, by the way, for what she did,” Trump said. ”Everybody knows she should be in jail. What she did with the emails is a disgrace,” he added.’