’’ ”President Barack Obama is moving ahead on plans to require background checks for guns purchased from dealers even if they’re bought online or at gun shows.” ’The White House is rolling out a series of   executive steps aimed at curbing gun violence, despite staunch opposition in Congress to new gun laws.’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ”The White House says the FBI will hire 230 more examiners to process background checks, a 50% increase in examiners. It’s an attempt to speed up the process so buyers don’t fall through the cracks.” ’Obama is confident that the new regulations will pass legal muster, having consulted Attorney General Loretta Lynch on them. ’ ’’ ’Obama will propose hiring 200 new agents and investigators for the ATF. He will also ask Congress to allocate $500 million for more access to mental healthcare.’ ’In addition, Obama has directed the Defense, Justice, and Homeland Security Departments to conduct or sponsor research into   technology.’ ’House Speaker Paul Ryan condemned Obama’’s proposed measures as a ”dangerous level of executive overreach. ”’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’FACT SHEET: New Executive Actions to Reduce Gun Violence and Make Our Communities Safer’ ’Gun violence has taken a heartbreaking toll on too many communities across the country. Over the past decade in America, more than 100, 000 people have been killed as a result of gun violence —  and millions more have been the victim of assaults, robberies, and other crimes involving a gun. Many of these crimes were committed by people who never should have been able to purchase a gun in the first place. Over the same period, hundreds of thousands of other people in our communities committed suicide with a gun and nearly half a million people suffered other gun injuries. Hundreds of law enforcement officers have been shot to death protecting their communities. And too many children are killed or injured by firearms every year, often by accident. The vast majority of Americans —  including the vast majority of gun owners —  believe we must take sensible steps to address these horrible tragedies.’ ’The President and Vice President are committed to using every tool at the Administration’s disposal to reduce gun violence. Some of the gaps in our country’s gun laws can only be fixed through legislation, which is why the President continues to call on Congress to pass the kind of commonsense gun safety reforms supported by a majority of the American people. And while Congress has repeatedly failed to take action and pass laws that would expand background checks and reduce gun violence, today, building on the significant steps that have already been taken over the past several years, the Administration is announcing a series of commonsense executive actions designed to:’ ’Congress should support the President’s request for resources for 200 new ATF agents and investigators to help enforce our gun laws, as well as a new $500 million investment to address mental health issues.’ ’Because we all must do our part to keep our communities safe, the Administration is also calling on States and local governments to do all they can to keep guns out of the wrong hands and reduce gun violence. It is also calling on   leaders to follow the lead of other businesses that have taken voluntary steps to make it harder for dangerous individuals to get their hands on a gun. In the coming weeks, the Administration will engage with manufacturers, retailers, and other   leaders to explore what more they can do.’ ’The most important thing we can do to prevent gun violence is to make sure those who would commit violent acts cannot get a firearm in the first place. The National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS) which was created by Congress to prevent guns from being sold to prohibited individuals, is a critical tool in achieving that goal. According to the Bureau of Justice Statistics, the background check system has prevented more than 2 million guns from getting into the wrong hands. We know that making the system more efficient, and ensuring that it has all appropriate records about prohibited purchasers, will help enhance public safety. Today, the Administration is announcing the following executive actions to ensure that all gun dealers are licensed and run background checks, and to strengthen the background check system itself:’ ’In order to improve public safety, we need to do more to ensure smart and effective enforcement of our gun laws and make sure that criminals and other prohibited persons cannot get their hands on lost or stolen weapons. The Administration is therefore taking the following actions:’ ’The Administration is committed to improving care for Americans experiencing mental health issues. In the last seven years, our country has made extraordinary progress in expanding mental health coverage for millions of Americans. This includes the Affordable Care Act’s end to insurance company discrimination based on   conditions, required coverage of mental health and substance use disorder services in the individual and small group markets, and an expansion of mental health and substance use disorder parity policies, all of which are estimated to help more than 60 million Americans. About 13. 5 million more Americans have gained Medicaid coverage since October 2013, significantly improving access to mental health care. And thanks to more than $100 million in funding from the Affordable Care Act, community health centers have expanded behavioral health services for nearly 900, 000 people nationwide over the past two years. We must continue to remove the stigma around mental illness and its treatment —  and make sure that these individuals and their families know they are not alone. While individuals with mental illness are more likely to be victims of violence than perpetrators, incidents of violence continue to highlight a crisis in America’s mental health system. In addition to helping people get the treatment they need, we must make sure we keep guns out of the hands of those who are prohibited by law from having them. Today, the Administration is announcing the following steps to help achieve these goals:’ ’Tens of thousands of people are injured or killed by firearms every year —  in many cases by guns that were sold legally but then stolen, misused, or discharged accidentally. Developing and promoting technology that would help prevent these tragedies is an urgent priority. America has done this in many other areas —  from making cars safer to improving the tablets and phones we use every day. We know that researchers and engineers are already exploring ideas for improving gun safety and the tracing of lost or stolen guns. Millions of dollars have already been invested to support research into concepts that range from fingerprint scanners to   identification to microstamping technology.’ ’As the single largest purchaser of firearms in the country, the Federal Government has a unique opportunity to advance this research and ensure that smart gun technology becomes a reality —  and it is possible to do so in a way that makes the public safer and is consistent with the Second Amendment. Today, the President is taking action to further this work in the following way:’