The murder trial of a white former University of Cincinnati police officer in the fatal shooting of an unarmed black driver last year ended in a mistrial on Saturday after the jurors told the judge they were unable to reach a verdict. The jurors first informed the judge on Friday that they were deadlocked, but they were told to continue deliberations. On Saturday morning, the judge declared a mistrial. Officer Ray Tensing fatally shot Samuel DuBose, 43, during a traffic stop as Mr. DuBose started to drive off. Mr. Tensing, 26, claimed that he felt that Mr. Dubose’s car was dragging him and that he fired at him because he feared he would be run over. The encounter was captured on video and set off protests. Mr. Tensing was charged with murder and voluntary manslaughter. A murder conviction  —   which requires jurors to find that he had intentionally killed Mr. DuBose  —   carries a sentence of 15 years to life in prison. A conviction on voluntary manslaughter  —   which requires them to find that he acted in a fit of rage or sudden passion  —   carries a sentence of up to five years. The jury of 10 whites and two blacks began deliberating just after noon on Wednesday. On July 19, 2015, Mr. Tensing pulled over Mr. Dubose’s 1998 Honda Accord a few blocks south of campus for having no front license plate.   video released by prosecutors shows Mr. Tensing asking Mr. DuBose for his license and Mr. DuBose eventually acknowledging he does not have one with him. Mr. DuBose shows the officer the missing license plate in his glove box. After the officer starts to open the driver’s door, Mr. DuBose pulls it closed and restarts the car. In several chaotic seconds, the engine can be heard revving, the officer reaches into the car with one hand, yells “stop” twice, and draws and fires his gun once with the other hand. Mr. DuBose, a father of 12 with a previous conviction for selling marijuana, was shot in the head. The authorities said that several bags of marijuana and more than $2, 500 in cash were found in the car. His license had been suspended indefinitely months before. The shooting  —   then the latest in a string of police killings of unarmed blacks, including ones in Staten Island, Cleveland, Baltimore and Ferguson, Mo.  —   caused an immediate uproar. Ten days later, Mr. Tensing was indicted on murder charges as the Hamilton County prosecutor, Joseph T. Deters, called the episode a “senseless, asinine shooting. ” At demonstrations across the country, protesters chanted, “I am Sam DuBose. ” Mr. Tensing was fired after the indictment. A report by a   firm hired by the university said that the video showed that Mr. Tensing was not being dragged, that the car had barely moved before the gunshot was fired and that Mr. Tensing had made several critical errors  —   including drawing his gun and reaching into the car. In January, the university agreed to pay $4. 85 million to Mr. Dubose’s family and provide an undergraduate education to his 12 children. At trial, prosecutors and their expert witnesses told jurors that the video showed that Mr. Tensing was not being dragged. Mr. Tensing, who had four years of law enforcement service with various departments, testified on Tuesday that his arm was caught inside Mr. DuBose’s car as it began to move and that he feared for his life. Regardless of what the video showed, Mr. Tensing’s lawyer said, the officer had the “perception” that he was being dragged and fired in  .