’’ ’  presidential candidate and Sen. Ted Cruz ( ) has faced another round of questions over his White House eligibility over the past week, reviving a firestorm over the issue that first erupted two years ago.’ ”Republican   Donald Trump brought the subject to the forefront this week, after he insinuated in a Washington Post interview that Cruz’s birth in Canada  if they nominated him.” ’”Republicans are going to have to ask themselves the question: ’’Do we want a candidate who could be tied up in court for two years? ’’ That’’d be a big problem,” Trump said, . ”It’’d be a very precarious one for Republicans because he’’d be running and the courts may take a long time to make a decision. You don’’t want to be running and have that kind of thing over your head. ”’ ’Cruz first released his  in 2013. The day after, he said in a   statement that he would renounce his Canadian citizenship. Amid the latest firestorm, his campaign  to the conservative website Breitbart on Friday.’ ’Back in 2013,  that Cruz was ”perhaps not” eligible to run for president. Trump was once one of the most prominent people questioning the birthplace of President Barack Obama, who eventually released his   birth certificate in 2011.’ ’But the questions about Cruz have little, if any, comparison to the conspiracy theories about Obama’’s birthplace. The ”birtherism” that dogged Obama stemmed from the fact that his father was born in Kenya. But Obama’’s mother was born in Kansas and Obama himself was born in Honolulu,  though many conspiracy theorists are skeptical about the document.’ ”Cruz’s situation is quite different, in that he was actually born outside the US. He was born in Calgary, Alberta, to a father from Cuba and a mother from Wilmington, Delaware.” ’From the legal experts to who The Dallas Morning News  in investigations over Cruz’’s eligibility, the US citizenship of Cruz’’s mother at the time should satisfy the constitutional requirement of being a ” ” citizen. The Constitution does not define what ”natural born” means, but the expert consensus is that a person only has to be a US citizen at birth to meet that threshold.’ ’Cruz once had dual citizenship. He said in 2013 that he would renounce his Canadian citizenship.’ ’”Because my mother was a US citizen, born in Delaware, I was a US citizen by birth,” he said in a 2013 statement. ”When I was a kid, my Mom told me that I could choose to claim Canadian citizenship if I wanted. I got my US passport in high school. ”’ ’He continued:’ ’’ ’There are a couple of   precedents for presidential contenders who were born outside the US. Notably, George Romney was born in Mexico to Mormon missionary parents and ran for president in 1968.’ ”His son, 2012 Republican nominee Mitt Romney, defended both Cruz’s and Obama’s citizenship on Friday.” ’’ ’ ’t’t’t. is a ”natural born citizen.” Obama too. Even George Romney. This isn’’t the issue you’’re looking for. ’t’t’ ’Both   Sens. Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton, Democratic candidates at the time, sponsored a  firmly stating that McCain met the Constitution’’s requirement that presidents are ” ” citizens.’ ’The nonpartisan Congressional Research Service also attempted to tackle the question of who is a ”  citizen” in .’ ”The report suggests that someone in Cruz’s situation would be indeed be eligible to become president. Here are the key paragraphs (emphasis added):” ”Although legal experts widely believe Cruz is eligible for the Oval Office, the courts have yet to rule on the issue and could theoretically complicate the senator’s plans if a legal challenge were brought before them. If history is any indication, however, a serious challenge would be unlikely.” ’For his part, McCain  this past week that it’’s ”worth looking into” whether Cruz is eligible to run for president.’ ’”I think there is a question,” McCain said. ”I’’m not a constitutional scholar on that, but I think it’’s worth looking into. I don’’t think it’’s illegitimate to look into it. ”’ ”Cruz responded to McCain by alleging his remarks came from his desire to support Sen. Marco Rubio ( ) one of Cruz’s rivals, for president.”