’’ ’When Republican presidential candidates take the stage for a   debate on Thursday, two notable names will be missing.’ ’Fox Business, which will host the Republican debate, released on Monday the names of candidates who qualified for the   debate.’ ”Here’s who made the cut:” ’  Donald Trump, US Sens. Ted Cruz ( ) and Marco Rubio ( ) retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson, Gov. Chris Christie (  Jersey) former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, Gov. John Kasich ( ) and former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush.’ ’Notably, former   CEO Carly Fiorina and Sen. Rand Paul ( ) failed to qualify. They will presumably join former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee and former Sen. Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania on the   stage, where both have been relegated for the last several contests.’ ’Paul slammed the decision, telling CNN that Fox Business was making a ”mistake” by not including him in the   contest. He also seemed to suggest that he wouldn’’t participate in the early debate, though some .’ ’”We think it’’s a rotten thing to do to try to designate which candidates have a chance and don’’t, so we will not participate in anything that is not first tier,” .’ ”Following the interview, Paul’s chief strategist, Doug Stafford, blasted out an email to supporters and took to Twitter to denounce the network’s decision.” ’”The media continues to work to black Senator Rand Paul out. This is an outrage. You and I can’’t let them get away with this,” Stafford said.’ ’’ ’ ’t’t’tBring. It. We will not back down. We will not be told what table to sit at.  ’ ’’ ’ ’t’t’tWe will not give up or in we will fight twice as hard and take it to the voters of IA and NH.  ’ ’Last month, Fox Business tightened its debate criteria, requiring that candidates meet slightly higher criteria to qualify. The network required presidential candidates to place in fifth in averages of the five   Iowa or New Hampshire state polls, or in sixth in averages of recent national polls.’ ”Paul’s and Fiorina’s campaigns  that some surveys showed the ircandidates in fifth and sixth place.” ”Fiorina’s deputy campaign manager noted that Fiorina would qualify if Fox Business relied on Fox News’ own national polls.” ’’ ’ ’t’t’tBased on two latest  polls,  is in 5th and 6th place. Will  trust their own polls?  ’