’’ ’Minnesota Vikings kicker Blair Walsh made news for the wrong reasons on Sunday.’ ’With under 30 seconds left in the NFC   game against the Seattle Seahawks, and with the Vikings trailing by one point with a score of   Walsh set up for a   field goal from 27 yards away.’ ’And to the shock of everyone, .’ ”Not only was it a total letdown, as it was a short distance and he’d already nailed kicks from 22, 43, and 47 yards, but Walsh led the NFL in made field goals this season, hitting 87% of his kicks.” ’To find out why Walsh cracked in the biggest moment of the season, we spoke to Stefan Fatsis, a Slate writer and the author of ”,” which details training for three months as a placekicker for the Denver Broncos.’ ’”There’’s a hundred things that might have had a minute effect on the way his foot struck the ball,” Fatsis said. ”I think the most logical explanation is that he rotated too quickly and pushed to the left. ”’ ’Fatsis ran through numerous things that could go wrong, including:’ ’But he said that he didn’’t see anything ”glaring” in the video to explain the missed kick.’ ”Fatsis also dispelled one of the common theories about missing a kick: the laces being pointed toward the kicker. That can affect a kick, according to Fatsis, but it didn’t affect Walsh on this day.” ’”An NFL kicker can kick a grapefruit from 27 yards in any weather conditions,” he said. ”That kick was so short and if you watch the replay, it’’s hard to think the laces were solely to blame. Plus, he had kicked a   field goal with the laces pointed right at him earlier in the game. ”’ ’Instead, he believes Walsh just rushed it, due to a number of factors:’ ”Fatsis broke down what happens if a kick is hurried, saying that a kicker will rotate his hips too quickly, turning too far  —   in Walsh’s case  —   to the left, thus pulling his foot to the left. If the entire motion is too far ahead, the kicker’s whole body ends up pointing in the wrong direction.” ”This may have been the case with Walsh’s kick:” ’’