’’ ’Officials say at least 23 people were killed in attacks on a hotel frequented by Westerners in West Africa, according to a ”partial death toll,” given by the nation’’s president, Reuters reports. ’ ”Other counts, like one from France’s ambassador, puts the number of causalities at 27.” ’ were reportedly freed from   militants when security forces stormed the building.’ ’An Associated Press reporter near the scene said that several cars were also ablaze outside the   Splendid Hotel in downtown Ouagadougou and that sporadic gunfire could still be heard two hours after the attack began.’ ’France 24 and Reuters  claimed responsibility for the attack.’ ’The French news outlet also cites Agence   (AFP) which is reporting that three armed men may have been behind the siege.’ ’Jihadists have attacked hotels before in neighboring Mali, including a devastating attack on the Radisson Blu hotel in November that left 20 people dead.’ ’The U. S. Embassy in Ouagadougou tweeted: ”We are closely following the situation downtown. ”’ ’’ ’While Burkina Faso has largely been spared the violence wracked by Islamic extremist groups in Mali, a Romanian national was abducted last April.’ ’Burkina Faso, a largely Muslim country, has been in turmoil since its longtime president was ousted in a popular uprising in late 2014.’ ”Last September, members of a presidential guard launched a coup that lasted only about a week. The transitional government returned to power until Burkina Faso’s November election ushered in new leaders.” ’’ ’ ’t’t’tBREAKING: Witnesses: Burkina Faso hotel attacked by   militants catches fire after commandos use explosives to storm building. ’t’t’ ’’ ” : 2 car bombs rock ’s Splendid Hotel. Witnesses say armed militants took hostages in the name of .  ” ” ’t’t’tTotally.  is  target but we shouldn’t rule out  or other groups just yet.  ” ’’ ’The assault in Ouagadougou began   and by 11 p. m. (1800 ET) the sounds of gunfire and explosions had died down.’ ’”We have received around 15 wounded people. There are people with bullet wounds and people who are injured because of falls,” said Robert Sangare, director of Ouagadougou’’s university hospital center.’ ’Sangare said one European woman being treated at the hospital told him the attackers appeared to target white people.’ ”The hotel is sometimes used by French troops with Operation Barkhane, a force based in Chad and set up to combat Islamist militants across West Africa’s vast, arid Sahel region.” ’’ ’The landlocked West African state has endured political turmoil since October 2014, when longtime President Blaise Compaore was overthrown during mass protests and elite troops launched a   coup in September 2015.’ ’But it has been largely spared violence by Islamist militants, who have staged attacks in Mali, a country with which it shares a   ( ) border.’ ’Additional Reuters reporting by Makini Brice in Dakar, Joe Bavier in Abidjan, and John Irish in Paris. Writing by Matthew Mpoke Bigg. Reuters editing by Toni Reinhold.’