’A monster of a snowstorm could clobber the Northeast this weekend, if the  pan out.’ ’ nearly every model predicts that a storm could dump between 1 foot and 2 feet of snow everywhere between northern Virginia and Boston.’ ’The National Weather Service in the   area says that it  ”significant travel delays, closures, and threats to life and property,” and heavy snow is expected in other parts of the East Coast.’ ’On Twitter, one meteorologist called it a ”blizzard for the ages”:’ ’’ ’ ’t’t’tGFS 00z dumps  ” wind driven snow with blockbuster blizzard for the ages this weekend. Crippling impacts  ’ ’As Slate’’s Eric Holthaus writes: ”What’’s amazing  —   perhaps even more so than the impressive potential snow totals  —   is that all the major weather models are already locked in so far in advance. ”’ ”Now, we’re still three to four days away from when the blizzard is supposed to hit, so a lot could change in that time.” ”This could signal the end of the  the Northeast has been having, which is  to this year’s   El Niño  —   a global weather pattern linked to    water temperatures in the Pacific.” ”Here’s a pretty animation of one of the forecasts:” ’’ ’ ’t’t’tThe 500mb forecasts from like every model every run are just so mesmerizing. Perfection. GFS shown:  ’ ’Paul Kocin, a meteorologist with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration,  on Tuesday that the conditions for this week’’s snowstorm are ”textbook,” saying that there was potential for a ”significant” East Coast snowstorm Friday through Sunday.’ ’He noted that while there is good agreement in the weather models, there are small but crucial differences. All models suggest the storm will continue building as it moves toward the   Coast, become more vertical and move northeastward.’ ’The storm will likely slow down as it moves off the   Coast, but then it could either speed up again as it heads northeast, or several weather fronts could intersect farther north and east, Kocin wrote. In both scenarios, ”the overall speed of the system is important to affect the amount of snow in any one area,” he said.’ ’Kocin compared the blizzard to one in   —   aka ”Snowmageddon”  —   one in  and the .’ ”But as good as the forecasts are, they’re still just predictions, and they’ve been wrong in the past. Take the  that was forecast to hit New York City in January 2015, which was predicted to dump as much as 2 feet of snow on the city but only brought about 5. 5 inches.” ”So don’t panic yet, but it might be time to get the snow shovels ready!”