’’ ’You can always count on Goldman Sachs to head left when everyone else is going right.’ ”In 2015, it did so by hiring 2, 800 people in one of the largest staffing increases in the bank’s history.” ’On a call on Wednesday following the release of  CFO Harvey Schwartz called the 8% jump in headcount a ”significant increase. ”’ ’The hiring stands out on Wall Street for a couple of reasons.’ ’First, other banks are generally either scaling back or keeping headcount flat.’ ”The number of employees at Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs’ closest rival, increased 1% to 56, 218. At Bank of America, headcount dropped by around 10, 000, with Citigroup reporting a similar decline. JPMorgan also reported a decline in the thousands.” ’(To get the   guide to the key issues at every major Wall Street bank, . )’ ”The new hires are also more evidence of Goldman’s push to use more technology behind the scenes.” ’About half of the new hires were’ ’Goldman has amped up its investments in tech resources in recent months and years, hiring computer engineers and investing in   companies whose products the bank can use.’ ’Goldman Sachs has about 11, 000 people in the technology division. Last fall, the firm announced plans to use   —   and ultimately to enhance efficiency.’ ’Another will help bankers with the work surrounding    deals.’ ’”We’’re building a technological solution around a deal life cycle,” ’ ’’ ’’ ’”We actually think it’’s a competitive advantage to be best in class  —   so you’’ll see us continually invest in tech and businesses, and over longterm, we think it’’s a contributor to our performance. ”’ ’On the compliance front, Goldman just  because of a big legal settlement it had to pay related to  from 2005 to 2007.’ ’Excluding   legal costs like that, the firm would have beat expectations for the quarter, and quarterly and   earnings would have been up from the previous year.’ ’Schwartz said that the other half of those hired were in businesses where Goldman is looking to grow, especially in investment management.’ ’Growth areas within investment management include   management, the advisory and insurance businesses, and ETFs and Active Beta strategies, according to people familiar with the matter.’ ’But not every part of Goldman is expanding. ’ ’’