”Winter Storm Jonas dumped an immense amount of snow on the US’s East Coast over the weekend, and residents are still digging out.” ’Transportation services are slowly returning to normal, however, and in many areas roadways are clear enough to drive.’ ’Part of the New York metro area, including eastern New Jersey, saw the snow begin to fall Saturday evening, but the worst of the blizzard had passed by midnight, and Sunday saw sunny skies and warmer weather, enabling road crews to plow major highways and roadways.’ ’For an update on airlines and airports, check Business Insider post . It will be updated as we learn more.’ ’As far as mass transit goes:’ ’The New York City subway system is operating on a normal schedule for the most part but saw some delays. .’ ’New York City buses are also operating on normal schedules, but the MTA advises riders to check for service updates and expect some delays because of snow.’ ’The Long Island Railroad has restored service to areas near New York City. But according to the MTA:’ ’LIRR train service remains suspended on the Port Washington, Far Rockaway, Hempstead, Long Beach and West Hempstead branches, and east of Speonk on the Montauk Branch due to the   effects of this weekend’s blizzard. There will also be no service between Jamaica Station and Atlantic Terminal. Instead, LIRR tickets will be   by New York City Transit on the 2 and 3 trains between Brooklyn and Penn Station.’ ’Commuters are advised to monitor  for updates on service restorations.’ ’  ”will run its normal weekday schedule Monday morning,” the MTA said. But ”there may be canceled and combined trains throughout the system as   continues to clear tracks, switches and yards of snow and ice from this weekend’’s storm. ”’ ’With the exception of the Gladstone line, .’ ’The Metropolitan Area Transit Authority reported the .’ ’The Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority .’ ’The Maryland MTA .’ ’Amtrak is .’ ’Throughout the East Coast, roadways are being cleared at an intermittent rate. Motorists should exercise abundant caution.’