” took a swing at what he believes is America’s failing school system.” ’”We are rated 28 in the world. The United States, think of it, 28 in the world,” he said. ”  countries are ahead of us. ”’ ’But is that an accurate statement or simply hyperbole?’ ’To   that claim, we took a look at the international test most widely used as a tool for measuring education systems worldwide,  (PISA). The exam is a worldwide study by the Organization for Economic   and Development (OECD) and it measures    in 65 countries in math, science, and reading.’ ’The US scores notoriously low on the PISA. In 2012, the most recent time the PISA was conducted, . It ranked below the OECD average in every category:’ ’’ ”So Trump’s claim that 27 countries are better at education than the US seems to be a fairly accurate point to make.” ’The second part of Trump’’s statement, that some   countries beat the US, is a bit more nuanced to unpack. For starters, the term ”third world” is a vague descriptor that means different things to different people. The term was birthed during the Cold War to refer to countries that were aligned with neither NATO nor the Communist Bloc.’ ’With the fall of the Soviet Union, the term has morphed to be more of a catchall term for developing or poor countries and is considered offensive by some people. As such, there is no authoritative list of   countries.’ ’Still, we took a look at the countries with the  based on Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) per capita in international dollars, as a proxy for a list of   countries. For the most part, the countries that beat the US are also economically strong. They include China, Singapore, and Germany.’ ’But one country that beat the US  than those nations: Vietnam. The comparable average income of a citizen of Vietnam is $5, 070 yearly, compared with $53, 470 for the US. Vietnam beat the US in math and science.’ ”So even though it sounds outlandish to make that claim, Trump makes a fair point about the US’s educational system.” ’’ ’’