’The US government has its eye on Theranos, the   company once valued at $9 billion.’ ’In an inspection last November that has just come to light, the US Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) found that one of the company’’s laboratories was ”not in compliance” with the conditions required for certification.’ ’”It was determined that the deficient practices of the laboratory pose immediate jeopardy to patient health and safety,” the agency .’ ’Even without knowing the details  —   the complete CMS report has not yet been released  —   this kind of language ”’ ’’ ”The Theranos lab’s five areas of noncompliance, detailed in  to the report sent to the company and uploaded by The Verge, were:” ’The deficiency related to hematology, a broad category that  was the most serious. That was the one categorized as posing ”immediate jeopardy” to patients. Only 0. 5% of labs in the country are deficient in hematology, . That means that just 95 out of more than 17, 000 labs surveyed had deficiencies in this category.’ ’The other deficiencies found at the Theranos lab were also : 1. 3% of labs are deficient in meeting the requirements for their analytic systems, 1. 5% are deficient in meeting the requirements for a laboratory director, 0. 3% are deficient in meeting the requirements for a technical supervisor, and 0. 5% are deficient in meeting the requirements for testing personnel.’ ”Here’s what CMS requires for a lab to be in compliance with testing personnel, for example:” ”The requirements are further detailed in the government’s  passed in 1988 as part of the  (CLIA).” ’According to Yeo, who reviewed the CMS letter, these kinds of deficiencies  —   especially in so many different areas  —   are not standard problems.’ ’”’ ’Theranos has  from the day it received the letter, January 25, to submit evidence to CMS showing that they have corrected the deficiencies.’ ’’ ’ a professor of laboratory medicine and pathobiology at the University of Toronto who  reviewed the letter from CMS and told Tech Insider that this qualifies as ”a very serious incident . .. which may cause the lab to lose its license. ”’ ”Still, he was careful to note that it’s hard to evaluate accurately without the full report detailing exactly what the deficiencies are.” ’A ”lab usually goes into panic mode to correct the deficiency within 10 days,” he said, but it’’s difficult to know yet whether Theranos will be able to so quickly correct the problems CMS found.’