’’ ’When Republican presidential candidate Carly Fiorina was questioned on Thursday about a personal dig against Democratic   Hillary Clinton, she did not back down.’ ’Fiorina, the former CEO of   fired off a series of zingers aimed at Clinton and her relationship with her husband, former US President Bill Clinton.’ ’Fox moderator Martha MacCallum pointed out that, in a previous debate, Fiorina said that ”unlike the other woman candidate in this race, I actually love spending time with my husband”  —   to which Fiorina smiled and pointed at her husband, saying, ”He’’s right there. ”’ ’”But back in September, in an interview, you said that you would stick only to the record  —   your record vs. Hillary Clinton’’s record  —   and never resort to personal attacks,” MacCallum continued. ”What changed? ”’ ’Fiorina responded that her previous comments were not ”a personal attack. ”’ ’”I was pointing out the fact that Hillary Clinton will do anything to gain and hang on to power. Anything,” Fiorina said. ”Listen, if my husband did what Bill Clinton did, I would have left him long ago. ”’ ”The crowd cheered, but Fiorina didn’t stop there.” ’”Here’’s the deal: Hillary Clinton has been climbing the ladder to try to get power and here now she is trying for the White House,” Fiorina said. ”She’’s probably more qualified for the big house. ”’ ’Fiorina then compared Clinton to the recently reapprehended Mexican drug lord Joaquin ”El Chapo” Guzman.’ ’”She’’s escaped prosecution more times than El Chapo,” Fiorina said.’ ’”Perhaps Sean Penn should interview her,” she continued, referring to the actor’’s interview with the drug lord that appeared in Rolling Stone magazine. The FBI is currently investigating Clinton’’s use of a private email server while she was US secretary of state to determine whether any protocol was violated.’ ”Fiorina went on to attack Clinton’s   record.” ’Fiorina said to cheers:’ ’She then went back to blasting Hillary and Bill Clinton.’ ’”You see, it’’s called the ’’Clinton way,’’” Fiorina said. ”Both Bill and Hillary practice it  —   the Clinton way, say whatever you have to say, do whatever you have to say, lie as long as you can get away with it. Hillary Clinton cannot be the president of these United States. ”’ ”Watch the first part of Fiorina’s attack below:” ’.: ”Listen, if my husband did what Bill Clinton did, I would have left him long ago” ’