’’ ’Last week, Facebook announced that on January 28, 2017,  leaving many apps and the teams behind them scrambling to find a new home.’ ”The Orbitz travel app is a Parse customer, as are Facebook’s own Oculus Rift VR team and the Quip mobile word processor. So are lots of smaller developers, who relied on Parse rather than spend the cash to build the servers and software to do it themselves.” ’When  it was already hosting 100, 000 apps.’ ’And so, the news of the shutdown meant that the rug was pulled out from under them.’ ’”’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’Parse, a Y   startup that came to Facebook in 2013 by way of a reported $85 million acquisition, provides a set of vital tools to help developers build and .’ ’Mainly, that means  to keep track of your information across phones and operating systems, and the mechanisms for apps to send push notifications.’ ’When Facebook bought Parse in 2013, it was facing an uncertain future and the aftershocks of a rocky IPO, and was looking to diversify its business look for the next big thing.’ ”Now that Facebook has really nailed most of the challenges ahead and is  it doesn’t really need that kind of broad scope. Parse could be a casualty of the social network’s current success.” ”It’s not a great move for Facebook, which spends a lot of time and energy reaching out to developers and getting them to integrate stuff like Facebook Login with their apps. Every app that integrates some kind of Facebook functionality also increases the chances that they’ll see a Facebook ad, after all.” ’’ ”Parse isn’t leaving customers totally high and dry, though. It’s making available a whole set of free tools so you can host your own version of Parse on your own servers  —   a route that may be appealing to developers who are now skeptical of letting any tech company host any portion of their apps, since they could be shut down any day.” ’”’ ”But many, if not most, of Parse’s jilted customers turned to the service in the first place because they didn’t want to run those services   usually because they lack time, cash, or expertise.” ”Plus, using Parse on the backend and Facebook login on the front end had some additional benefits. It meant that the Parse database that contains user information automatically filled in if they logged in with Facebook. That doesn’t happen with competitors.” ”Fortunately for developers, there are plenty of other services out there more than willing to pick up Parse’s slack.” ’Earlier on Monday,  using its set of similar services.  a popular Parse competitor that it acquired late last year. ’ ”Judging from the email in my inbox and the buzz on Twitter, Google’s Firebase looks to gain  —   or regain, from lapsed customers  —   the most ground in the market as a solid alternative, especially since, like Parse, it’s free to use.” ’’ ’”T’ ’’ ’’ ’”’