Like a little crew of   bandits, the first few raccoon faces poked out of the underbrush on a recent evening in Central Park, their masked, button eyes glowing with each flash of a smartphone camera. Undaunted, several of the animals scuttled onto the walkway toward the picture takers. They were followed by more raccoons  —   and then still more. All told, 22 raccoons clustered on a path near the southeastern edge of the park, where it meets 59th Street in Manhattan. They strolled around while a gaggle of onlookers tried to pose for selfies with them. Some people fed the animals soft pretzels from a pushcart by hand, as the raccoons stood on their hind legs to wrest morsels from their admirers’ fingertips. “Is this normal?” Karen Newis, 56, a visitor from Greensboro, N. C. asked her sister Stefanie Price, who lives in Manhattan, as they passed the raccoons. One of the animals gingerly tiptoed toward a baby in a stroller, sniffing. “No, it’s not normal,” Ms. Price, 48, said. “They’re so cute, though. ” In fact, the throng of raccoons at the edge of the Pond in Central Park has become something of a tourist attraction, with unofficial visiting hours each evening.   with their winter fur (and, perhaps, all those pretzels) in pairs or in dozens, the nocturnal animals gambol on the pathway as soon as it gets dark. They look for   with snacks. The practice of feeding them, however   is frowned upon by New York City’s parks department and wildlife experts. While not illegal (though feeding bears, moose and deer is in New York State) it is risky for people and creatures alike: Raccoons can carry rabies, and emboldened raccoons that do not stay in the underbrush can get themselves into trouble. “Do not feed raccoons or any wildlife you might encounter in parks!” Sarah Aucoin, chief of education and wildlife for the parks department, wrote in an email. “Animals are best observed from a distance  —   it keeps both them and you safe. ” In 2010, there was a large outbreak of rabies among raccoons in Central Park. And on Staten Island in 2015, four cases were reported, according to the city’s health department. This year, three rabid raccoons have been reported  —   one each in the Bronx, Queens and Staten Island  —   and 311 has received 1, 153   inquiries, such as how to remove them from backyards. Raccoons are not just attracting attention in Manhattan trappers in Brooklyn may have exacerbated a problem by catching them in backyards and releasing them in parks. For animals like raccoons, and even coyotes, living in urban areas is normal, but feeding them should not be, according to the state Department of Environmental Conservation. It publishes a   booklet called “Feeding Wildlife   …     Just Say No!” It is also not necessary. “Raccoons are resilient and have an uncanny ability to find food in the wild,” Benning DeLaMater, a spokesman for the department, said in an email. “They are true omnivores, eating plants, animals and insects. ” Nonetheless, on a nightly basis the raccoons in Central Park stuff themselves with anything   have on hand. On a recent evening the animals snacked on organic gummy bears, tossed at them    by a toddler from her stroller potato chips and a piece of a hot dog. Occasionally, they get a bonanza. A local baker frequently comes to hurl   stale bagels in their direction. As night fell, Fernando Caligaris, 29, brought his mother, Dr. Maria Caligaris, who was visiting from São Paulo, Brazil, into the park to see the animals. When her son, who works nearby, told her about the little raccoon army near his office, she added a stop on her sightseeing itinerary. “The Metropolitan Museum, the Museum of Natural History, the Brooklyn Bridge,” Dr. Caligaris said. “And the raccoons. ” Emerging from the bushes, the raccoons often surprise the hordes of Pokémon Go players who have taken to strolling in Central Park at night, including Leonardo Altafini, 28, an actor who lives in Fort Greene, Brooklyn. He was wandering around with his friends, expecting that digital creatures, not actual ones, would pop up along the paths. “They’re like little Pokémon!” Mr. Altafini said, looking up from his screen to see a raccoon nearing his leg. He stopped to marvel at the balls of fur and striped tails at his feet  —   for a moment. “There’s a Squirtle down here!” a friend yelled, referring to one of the digital monsters. They headed off after the virtual creature, leaving behind the nearly   raccoons, each sniffing for more to eat.