’The plunge in oil prices is already having   effects on countries whose economies are dependent on oil exports.’ ’But in Iraq, the stakes of cheap oil are even higher than in Saudi Arabia, which is  or in Nigeria, which is .’ ”What little remains of Iraq’s government and social order might collapse if oil remains in its current price trough  —   with dire consequences.” ’According to a Monday AFP report, Iraq is . Right now, Iraq is selling its oil at around $22 a barrel, half of what it would need to fetch for the country to be able to fund the upcoming year of government budgetary obligations, the report said. ’ ”But Iraq’s situation is actually even worse. As recently as the 2014 fiscal year, Iraq was formulating its national budget on the assumption that oil would  and that the country’s oil exports would continue to climb (which they have).” ”Iraqi government revenue experienced dramatic annual increases between 2009 and 2013, almost entirely because of oil (see the chart on the left). That’s all over, now that .” ”Though Iraqi oil is comparatively cheap to extract, it also contains unusually high levels of sulfur, meaning that it typically sells for around 10% less than Brent crude, the global price benchmark. The Iraqi government is still making money pumping oil  —   just not nearly enough to fund the country’s anticipated national budget.” ”Such a daunting fiscal cliff would be challenging for a stable or politically coherent country. But it’s potentially disastrous in a place like Iraq, where the majority of territory is split between the terrorist group ISIS and the Kurdistan Regional Government. Even the areas still under some semblance of federal control are fought over by a constellation of militia groups with ties to recognized political parties.” ”Ali Khedery,  warned that cheap oil threatens the country’s last remaining semblance of order. ” ’’ ’’ ’’ ”As Khedery explained to Business Insider, the number of Iraqi government employees is believed to have shot up from around 850, 000 at the time of the   invasion in 2003 to more than 2. 5 million by early 2015. It’s a revealing statistic, considering Iraq’s transition from a strong, centralized state under Saddam Hussein to a loose and   federation under its current system.” ’’