’In this excerpt from ”,” author  chief geopolitical analyst for Stratfor and former member of the Pentagon’’s Defense Policy Board, explains how the region’’s unique geography fosters aggression.’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’The oil transported through the Malacca Strait from the Indian Ocean, en route to East Asia through the South China Sea, is triple the amount that passes through the Suez Canal and fifteen times the amount that transits the Panama Canal.’ ’’ ’In addition to centrality of location, the South China Sea has proven oil reserves of seven billion barrels, and an estimated 900 trillion cubic feet of natural gas.’ ’If Chinese calculations are correct that the South China Sea will ultimately yield 130 billion barrels of oil (and there is some serious doubt about these estimates) then the South China Sea contains more oil than any area of the globe except Saudi Arabia. Some Chinese observers have called the South China Sea “the second Persian Gulf. ”’ ’’ ’And the China National Offshore Oil Corporation has invested $20 billion in the belief that such amounts of oil really do exist in the South China Sea. China is desperate for new energy. Chinese oil reserves account for only 1. 1 percent of the world total, while it consumes over 10 percent of world oil production and over 20 percent of all the energy consumed on the planet. ’ ’’ ’’ ’Yet these specks of land, buffeted by typhoons, are valuable mainly because of the oil and natural gas that might lie nearby in the intricate, folded layers of rock beneath the sea. Brunei claims a southern reef of the Spratly Islands.’ ’Malaysia claims three islands in the Spratlys. The Philippines claims eight islands in the Spratlys and significant portions of the South China Sea. Vietnam, Taiwan, and China each claims much of the South China Sea, as well as all of the Spratly and Paracel island groups.’ ’’ ’Beijing claims to own what it calls its “historic line”: that is, the heart of the entire South China Sea in a grand loop —  the “cow’s tongue” as the loop is called —  surrounding these island groups from China’s Hainan Island south 1, 200 miles to near Singapore and Malaysia.’ ’The result is that all of these littoral states are more or less arrayed against China, and dependent upon the United States for diplomatic and military backing.’ ’For example, Vietnam and Malaysia are seeking to divide all of the seabed and subsoil resources of the southern part of the South China Sea between mainland Southeast Asia and the Malaysian part of the island of Borneo: this has elicited a furious diplomatic response from China. These conflicting claims are likely to become more acute as energy consumption in developing Asian countries is expected to double by 2030, with China accounting for half of that growth. ’ ’“Paradoxically, if the postmodern age is dominated by globalization,” writes the British naval expert Geoffrey Till, then “everything that supports” globalization, such as trade routes and energy deposits, becomes fraught with competition.’ ’And when it comes to trade routes, 90 percent of all commercial goods that travel from one continent to another do so by sea.’ ’’ ’One   official of a South China Sea littoral state was particularly blunt during an    conversation I had in 2011, saying, “The Chinese never give justifications for their claims. They have a real Middle Kingdom mentality, and are dead set against taking these disputes to court. China,” this official went on, “denies us our right on our own continental shelf. But we will not be treated like Tibet or Xinjiang. ”’ ’’ ’The complexity of the issues mitigates against an overall solution, so China simply waits until it becomes stronger. Economically, all these countries will come to be dominated by China,” the official continued, unless of course the Chinese economy itself unravels.’ ’Once China’s underground submarine base is completed on Hainan Island, “China will be more able to do what it wants. ” Meanwhile, more American naval vessels are visiting the area, “so the disputes are being internationalized. ” Because there is no practical political or judicial solution, “we support the status quo. ” ’ ’“If that fails, what is Plan B for dealing with China?” I asked.’ ’“Plan B is the U. S. Navy —  Pacific Command. But we will publicly remain neutral in any U. S.  dispute. ” To make certain that I got the message, this official said: “An American military presence is needed to countervail China, but we won’t vocalize that. ” The withdrawal of even one U. S. aircraft carrier strike group from the Western Pacific is a “game changer. ”’ ’’ ’’ ’Take the Spratlys, with significant oil and natural gas deposits, which are claimed in full by China, Taiwan, and Vietnam, and in part by Malaysia, the Philippines, and Brunei. China has built concrete helipads and military structures on seven reefs and shoals.’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’