’The New York Knicks announced on Monday that they  after less than two seasons.’ ’After a     season last year, the Knicks are   this year, but have lost five games in a row and nine of their last ten.’ ”The decision came as a shock to the NBA world because Fisher’s job seemed safe as he was   by Knicks president Phil Jackson, given a   $25 million contract, and viewed as a developing coach to guide the Knicks through their rebuild.” ”However, in the aftermath of the firing, it’s clear that there were three big factors that led to Fisher’s firing: Fisher’s   with Grizzlies forward Matt Barnes early in the season, the Knicks’ surprisingly competitive start, and his approach to Phil Jackson’s triangle offense.” ”The first was an odd incident that surfaced during the preseason.  at Barnes’  ’s house in California after Barnes received an alarming call from his children while Fisher, who dates Barnes’   was at the house. Barnes showed up and the two had an altercation, reportedly initiated by Barnes, which later led to Barnes being suspended for two games by the NBA. Fisher didn’t receive any punishment.” ’While the incident largely blew over, it seems that it had deeper effects on the team.’ ’’ ’ ’t’t’tThe beginning of the end for Derek Fisher was his situation with Matt Barnes. Needless to say, that did not go over big in the locker room. ’t’t’ ” ’t’t’tYou could throw last year out, but starting off this year with the embarrassing incident with Matt Barnes wasn’t a good look for Fish’t’t” ’Jackson addressed the media after Fisher was fired and admitted, ”No one’s happy about that. It was embarrassing for us and Derek,” though he also added, ”but that had nothing to do with what’s happened here today. ”’ ’”No. Disappointed in what?” Fisher said in an interview on ESPN radio. ”We’re a developing team with a ton of new players. . .. We have to be reasonable about who we are and where we are and accept what is and not get caught up in what we should be and allow other people to define what our success is. ”’ ”During the Knicks’ best stretches this season, they’ve looked like a flowing, clicking offense with a passable defense.  and players like Kristaps Porzingis, Arron Afflalo, Robin Lopez, Derrick Williams, and others were providing needed scoring, energy, and defensive boosts. Several stretches of strong play saw the Knicks get back into playoff contention, most recently in January with a   record.” ”After this current stretch, Knicks management thought Fisher wasn’t progressing as a coach, and they reportedly weren’t pleased with his admission that the Knicks might not be a playoff team. Kurt Rambis, who is now the interim coach, sang an entirely different tune on Monday when speaking to the media.” ’’ ’ ’t’t’tRambis: ”That’’s my goal. To get this team in the playoffs.” Wow. Big change from Fisher rhetoric. ’t’t’