’’ ’Every Thursday afternoon, Google holds a ”TGIF” meeting that invites employees to ask questions of cofounders Sergey Brin and Larry Page  —   or, .’ ’One Thursday in early 2015, a Googler asked why employees at Nest, the connected home startup that Google bought for $3. 2 billion in 2014, had been asked to .’ ’Matt Rogers, a cofounder of Nest, fielded the question.’ ’Rogers essentially said that this was just the way the process sometimes worked for hardware products.’ ’It may have seemed like a simple enough answer, but some employees found it insulting.’ ’”He wasn’’t acknowledging that this was a bad state to be in and he wasn’t taking responsibility,” one former employee told Business Insider. ”And ultimately if you’’re asking your people to work weekends, it’’s not their fault, it’’s upper management’’s fault. ”’ ’Three former Nest employees independently brought up this same anecdote when describing how Nest had an internal culture where it was ”always crunch time” because of unrealistic deadlines and a hierarchical management structure.’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’Nest sells three products: a smart thermostat, a smart fire alarm, and a smart camera, which it launched after its $555 million acquisition of startup Dropcam in summer 2014.’ ’Although each product has a solid rating on Amazon  —   3. 9, 4. 5, and 4. 6 for the camera, thermostat, and smoke alarm, respectively  —   each has also suffered some sort of   screwup.’ ’Most recently, some owners of its   . Not too long before that, in September,   owners experienced a service outage, a particularly stressful situation for . That was its  in the past year.’ ”Although we haven’t seen any issues from the smoke alarm recently, even a year’s time isn’t long enough to  uploaded, in which his device seemed to be going berserk, or the .” ’And Nest has been having ”relationship issues,” too, ’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’As one former   employee put it less positively, ”Nest’’s every step is administered to death” by Fadell.’ ’He has a 68% approval rating on anonymous   site Glassdoor, but the several   Business Insider spoke to highlighted an atmosphere of ”fear” and said that sitting near Fadell’’s office meant hearing a constant barrage of shouting. Designs would be sent back to the drawing board late in the process, which caused the unrealistic deadlines.’ ’’ ’’ ”Although anonymous reviews should always be taken with a grain of salt, it’s worth noting that less than 60% of Glassdoor respondents said that they would recommend the company to a friend.” ’’ ’In preparing for Alphabet’s first   earnings report, Pacific Crest and SunTrust pegged Nest as likely $450 million in net revenue. Goldman Sachs estimated between $400 million and $500 million. RBC upped the ante to $672 million in revenue.’ ’Most of the revenue in the ”Other Bets” category came from Nest, Google Fiber, and biotech division Verily, but combined those efforts only hit $448 million.’ ’To be fair, analysts built their Nest estimates off of other estimates, like Nest could already be  in 2014.’ ’’ ’’ ”The market suffers from limited consumer demand, high prices, and long   cycles  —   you’re definitely not getting a new smart thermostat every year.” ’But despite general slow uptick, John Feland, CEO of research company Argus Insights, which studies customer reviews, says that among consumers there’’s also the feeling that Nest’’s products haven’’t lived up to their ”poster child” expectations.’ ”He believes that many consumers are still waiting to see how Apple’s   framework develops.” ’”’ ’Every Thursday afternoon, Google holds a ”TGIF”. ..’