’’ ’Apple CEO Tim Cook took a  to decrypt an iPhone belonging to one of the San Bernardino shooters.’ ”Cook’s open letter won him a lot of support from  and  who appreciated his unequivocal support of user privacy. But when  hours later, his support for Cook and Apple’s stance was . .. muted, to say the least.” ”Where Cook called the FBI’s request a” ’The optimistic view here is that Pichai and Cook care deeply about this issue, and Google  —   and Microsoft, for that matter, which has yet to issue any kind of statement directly  —   are just trying to wrap their heads around the .’ ’But if you look at the business forces in play here, it shows just how different, at their core, the . ’ ’Cook has spent much of the last two years making ”privacy” a core part of the Apple brand.’ ’The best example of this was in June 2015, when . In his remarks, Cook said:’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ”Here’s a thought experiment: If a wizard came down from a mountain tomorrow and placed a spell on the world that nobody could never buy a smartphone again, who would go out of business first: Apple or Google?” ’’ ”So this focus on privacy is also   for Apple: It takes a weakness  —   the fact that it’s not as good as Google at collecting data to build great services  —   and turns it into a strength that helps it sell its most important product.” ’’ ’The flip side of that coin, though, is that if the FBI forces it to crack this phone, then not only could it create what Pichai calls a ”troubling precedent,” but it would also greatly diminish Apple’’s cachet in terms of privacy.’ ”Meanwhile, Google doesn’t really have a horse in this race. Most Android phones aren’t encrypted as well as iPhones, meaning that it’s easier for   agencies to crack them in the first place, .” ”And given that Google’s main lines of business hinge on a   of personal information in the first place, and not on hardware, it’s relatively insulated from this particular issue.” ”All told, it’s a great reminder that, despite the fact that Google and Apple are fierce competitors in some areas, they are really fighting different wars.” ’Apple CEO Tim Cook took a bold and public. ..’