”Last week, Victoria’s Secret’s longtime CEO Sharen Jester Turney abruptly  from her position.” ’A release from parent company L Brands said that Turney was abandoning her role in order to focus on spending time with her family.’ ”The company noted that L Brands CEO Les Wexner will assume responsibilities for Victoria’s Secret.” ’The new CEO will have his or her hands full.’ ’’ ’What clicked for women decades ago is not the same today.’ ”So Les Wexner  —   or whoever takes the helm of Victoria’s Secret, should Wexner’s tenure be temporary  —   might be wise to pay heed to some dramatic shifts in culture that could potentially harm Victoria’s Secret if it chooses not to adapt.” ’For instance, beauty no longer knows a size.’ ’’ ’’ ”American Eagle’s teen lingerie retailer, Aerie, has enjoyed a wave of positive press, and the reason is twofold: Its sales are exploding and its marketing resonates with young women.” ’The company has garnered praise for  thereby encouraging women to embrace their flaws. The company’’s signature hashtag, ”#AerieREAL,” indicates that what’’s real is what’’s beautiful. Its  is   activist Iskra Lawrence.’ ”Victoria’s Secret is infamously  when it comes to using Photoshop.” ’’ ”Victoria’s Secret’s famously fit models might not be viewed as aspirational anymore; women seek being happy with themselves  —   which doesn’t necessarily mean pigging out on the couch all the time  —   but it means that thinness might no longer be the goal. People are working out for reasons other than obtaining a certain, specified body.” ’That said, Victoria’’s Secret has been heavily pushing how ”fit” its models are,  Megan Garber pointed out, perhaps as a way to show customers that they aren’’t completely out of sync with evolving times.’ ’Victoria’’s Secret is also famous for being ”sexy”  —   but that might not be what customers want anymore.’ ’’ ’Sexiness shifts with each generation.  has failed to resonate with the current generation, and as a result, the retailer has shifted its schemes and toned itself down.’ ”Although Victoria’s Secret is about the notion of fantasy (and thereby, sexuality) some women have been put off by the overt sexiness, especially some of the .” ’ regarding the above image. ”Stop catering to men. ”’ ’’ ’’ ”After all, when Victoria’s Secret initially launched, it wasn’t designed with women’s interests in mind  —   founder Roy Raymond wanted to feel comfortable when he was buying lingerie for his wife, according to . The whole concept of Victoria’s Secret was not about making women feel sexy or even enticing the people actually wearing the underwear; it was centered on the male gaze.” ’For the most part, much of the marketing is still centered on what might titillate (the  for instance, speaks volumes for itself) but when Les Wexner took over, he zeroed in on making purchasing lingerie no longer taboo, according to .’ ’’ ”It’s clear his strategies worked. Victoria’s Secret holds the majority of the lingerie market, at a whopping 61. 8% according to IBIS World.” ”Last week, Victoria’s Secret’s longtime CEO. ..”