’Republican presidential frontrunner Donald Trump wasted no time attacking GOP rival Ted Cruz after the latter abruptly asked his top spokesman to resign on Monday.’ ”Trump unleashed a series of tweets about Rick Tyler, the spokesman for Cruz’s presidential campaign. Cruz, a Texas senator, asked Tyler to  after he  that purportedly showed rival Marco Rubio dismissing the Bible.” ’”Wow, Ted Cruz falsely suggested Marco Rubio mocked the Bible and was just forced to fire his Communications Director,” Trump tweeted. ”More dirty tricks! ”’ ’Trump has been attacking Cruz for weeks, calling him a ”liar” and accusing him of supposed ”dirty tricks.” The attacks have shown signs of sticking, as Cruz has attempted to distance himself from the label.’ ’”I had made clear in this campaign that we will conduct this campaign with the very highest standards of integrity,” Cruz said on Monday, after he told reporters that he’’d asked Tyler to resign.’ ’He continued:’ ’Trump continued his tweetstorm:’ ’Ted Cruz has been playing an ad about me that is so ridiculously false   no basis in fact. Take ad down Ted. Biggest liar in politics!’ ’Ted Cruz has now apologized to Marco Rubio and Ben Carson for fraud and dirty tricks. No wonder he has lost Evangelical support!’ ’Just saw the phony ad by Cruz   totally false, more dirty tricks. He got caught in so many lies   is this man crazy?’ ”Ted Cruz should be disqualified from his fraudulent win in Iowa. Weak RNC and Republican leadership probably won’t let this happen! Sad.” ’The   controversy centers around a video that Tyler posted and later apologized for, calling it ”inaccurate.” The video purported to show Rubio pointing to a Bible a Cruz staffer was holding in a hotel lobby and saying that ”not many answers” are in it. Rubio, in fact, said that ”all the answers are in there” as he gestured toward the Bible.’ ’ Cruz said that he asked for his exit from the campaign. He defended Tyler as a ”good man” who had made ”a grave error in judgment. ”’ ’Republican presidential frontrunner Donald. ..’