’’ ’Apple is losing the battle of public opinion over whether it should provide custom software to help the FBI   the passcode on an iPhone used by one of the San Bernardino shooters.’ ’  percent of Americans say Apple should ”unlock” the phone in question, according to findings from a  published Monday.’ ’Only 38% of Americans say Apple ”should not” unlock the phone. ’ ’In a motion filed Friday, the Department of Justice called Apple’’s stance on the issue a ”marketing strategy,” saying Apple is taking this stance based on ”its concern for its business model. ”’ ”If Apple really did decide to take its   stand because of marketing, then it’s fighting an uphill battle, according to the Pew findings.” ”In general, opinions on the   issue don’t fall along party lines, although Republican presidential candidates  have publicly denounced Apple.   percent of Republicans think Apple should unlock the phone;   percent of Democrats agree.” ”Even iPhone owners believe that Apple should unlock the device in question, with 47% of   Americans saying Apple should unlock the device, compared with 43% of iPhone owners who support Apple’s stance.” ”Many of the people surveyed by Pew were aware of the issues, with 75% saying they’d heard about the situation, and 39% of respondents saying they’d heard a lot.” ”While public opinion is not going to sway the legal battle over the San Bernardino shooter’s iPhone, it could be critical as the debate sets up a fight over whether Congress should legislate whether back doors should be built into smartphones.” ’Senate Judiciary Chairman Chuck Grassley from Iowa has requested additional information from the FBI on the encryption problem, and  that encryption issues will ultimately result in legislation, instead of going through the courts alone.’ ’In an open letter by CEO Tim Cook, Apple called for ”public discussion,” and in an  it signaled that if Congress were to form a commission to investigate the issues, that ”Apple would gladly participate in such an effort. ”’ ”However, Apple’s tone might change if it finds that public opinion stays on the government’s side.” ’Apple is losing the battle of public opinion. ..’