”CNN anchor Jake Tapper repeatedly asked Donald Trump on Sunday to denounce David Duke’s support for his candidacy, but Trump insisted he didn’t know anything about the former KKK grand wizard.” ’”Will you unequivocally condemn David Duke and say that you don’’t want his vote and that of other white supremacists in this election?” Tapper asked Trump ’ ”On Friday, Trump  at a press conference that he would disavow Duke’s support. But on Sunday, the Republican presidential frontrunner told Tapper that he didn’t have enough information to answer the question: ” ’BuzzFeed  that Duke, a prominent white nationalist, urged his supporters to back Trump. Duke was quoted saying on his radio show that ”voting against Donald Trump at this point is really treason to your heritage. ”’ ’On his Sunday show, Tapper continued to press Trump on the subject. ’ ’”Even if you don’’t know about their endorsement, there are these groups and individuals endorsing you. Would you just say unequivocally that you condemn them and you don’’t want their support?” he asked Trump.’ ”But Trump again insisted again he didn’t know about Duke:” ’”The Ku Klux Klan?” Tapper interjected. ’ ’Trump continued his answer without addressing the KKK.’ ’”You may have groups in there that are totally fine and it would be very unfair. So give me a list of the groups, and I’’ll let you know,” he told Tapper.’ ’Tapper seemed somewhat perplexed.’ ’”OK, I mean, I’’m just talking about David Duke and the Ku Klux Klan here, but . ..” he said, trailing off and inviting Trump to comment.’ ’”Honestly, I don’’t know David Duke. I don’’t believe I’’ve ever met him. I’’m pretty sure I’’ve didn’’t meet him. And I just don’’t know anything about him,” Trump said.’ ”Sens. Marco Rubio and Ted Cruz, Trump’s top rivals for the GOP nomination,  Trump on Sunday for not forcefully condemning Duke.” ’For his part, Trump reacted to the firestorm by  and reiterating that he disavowed Duke.’ ’’ ’.: ”I know nothing about David Duke”   ’ ’CNN anchor Jake Tapper repeatedly asked Donald. ..’