’’ ’Cartel Jalisco Nueva Generación, Mexico’s  appears to be moving into Sinaloa cartel territory in Tijuana, just across the border from San Diego.’ ’CJNG is reportedly teaming up with former members of the Arellano Félix Organization (AFO) and recruiting current members of the Sinaloa cartel in the city in order to take control of   routes to the US, according to  by Sandra Dibble of The San Diego  .’ ’“Nueva Generacion does not have a significant physical presence in [Baja California, where Tijuana is located] but has focused on forging alliances with members of the Tijuana underworld in a challenge to the Sinaloa cartel,” Daniel de la Rosa, the public safety secretary in Baja California,  Dibble.’ ’Bodies found in the city recently have borne narcomensajes, messages from the person’s killer, so named because they usually indicate a   killing.’ ’“The cleaning continues in Baja [California] on the part of El Mencho. Sincerely, CJNG CTNG,”  referring to both CJNG and its local affiliate, Cartel Tijuana Nueva Generacion.’ ’“El Mencho” is believed to be .’ ’’ ’Another group that has left messages on dead bodies, known as  is purportedly made up of state and local police officers working  of the Sinaloa cartel.’ ’This spike in homicides comes amid a  in killings in the border city.’ ’’ ’Tijuana’s homicide rate  from 28 per 100, 000 residents in 2012 to 39 per 100, 000 in 2015, which made it the  in the world that year, according to a Mexican think tank.’ ’  homicides were more than  last year. Moreover, Dibble  71 homicides in January were the most the city has seen in the first month of the year since 2010.’ ’State officials are  that the rise in killings (which has occurred alongside a drop in other common crimes) is the result of organized criminal activity  —   and of CJNG’s ambitions.’ ’Violence has gone ”up because a third group” that had not previously been in the city ”is in the process of becoming established,” the state’s deputy attorney general for organized crime, José María Gonzalez,  Dibble.’ ’Tijuana’s police have also attracted criticism over  that members of state and local forces are working for cartels. The city’s top police official even resigned this week,  he “wanted to avoid the continuation of the perverse media campaign” the he believed had been mounted against the police force.’ ’A strike against the Sinaloa cartel’s dominance in Tijuana by CJNG, allied with former Arellano Felix members, would be a confluence of many past and present players in Mexico’s drug trade.’ ’’ ”The Arellano Felix Organization controlled trafficking in the Tijuana area in the late 1980s and 1990s, but a  with “El Chapo” Guzmán’s cartel ignited a   war. (Guzmán allegedly  on the AFO to the DEA to help to bring down his rivals. )” ”By the   the US and Mexican governments had largely brought down the AFO. Since then, Guzmán’s Sinaloa cartel has managed to maintain its status as Mexico’s, and likely the world’s,  despite its leader’s .” ’Around 2010,  reportedly from the remnants of a trafficking organization headed by Ignacio Coronel, an ally of Guzmán’s Sinaloa cartel (and reportedly ) in Jalisco state in southwest Mexico.’ ’’ ’Since then, CJNG has established itself as one of the most fearsome cartels in Mexico.’ ’The group has seized control of much of Jalisco state, corrupting many police forces and .’ ’CJNG gunmen even shot down a Mexican army helicopter with a   grenade last year, killing six soldiers.’ ’CJNG also “is now one of the major players in the meth trade in North America,” Alejandro Hope, the security and justice editor for El Daily Post, said during  in Washington, DC, in late January.’ ’Rumors have swirled about the . After Guzmán’s escape from prison in July, it was reported that  but cooperation between the two groups, if it ever existed, has likely ended.’ ”“It was usually thought they were collaborators, that Jalisco was a junior partner with Sinaloa   …     but more increasingly there’s the sense that they’re rivals, and that   …     they’re fighting, at least in some areas,”  Hope.” ’Cartel Jalisco Nueva Generación. ..’