’Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump dominated on one of the most important nights of the 2016 presidential primaries.’ ’On Tuesday, Republican and Democratic primary voters in a combined 13 states and US territories headed to the polls and caucuses to weigh in on the 2016 race.’ ’Taken together, the Super Tuesday primaries and caucuses represented the largest number of delegates up for grabs on a single day  —   more than 500 on the Republican side and 800 for Democrats.’ ’On the GOP side, Trump extended his significant delegate lead, as he led the pack in most Super Tuesday state races. Almost immediately after polls closed, Trump was declared the winner in Alabama, Tennessee, Georgia, and Massachusetts, and he picked up wins in Vermont and Arkansas later in the evening.’ ’Sen. Ted Cruz pulled out a surprise victory in Oklahoma, and he secured a win in his home state of Texas  —   later, Cruz also claimed Alaska. Sen. Marco Rubio nabbed a win in the Minnesota caucuses.’ ’On the Democratic side, Clinton won contests in several Southern states immediately after the polls closed, including Georgia, Alabama, and Tennessee. But her insurgent rival Sen. Bernie Sanders appeared poised to take a decent percentage of delegates, winning his home state of Vermont early in the night and later taking contests in Oklahoma, Colorado, and Minnesota.’ ’4:06 a. m. EST  —   Sen. Ted Cruz wins Alaska with 36% support from caucus voters. Donald Trump came in second with 34% according to several news outlets including CNN and NBC News.’ ’1:12 a. m. EST  —   In the 10% of Alaska Republican caucus precincts reporting, Trump garnered about 34% support. Cruz picked up just under 30% support, while Rubio picked up 18% support.’ ”12:34 a. m. EST  —   CNN’s Dana Bash reported that some GOP operatives planned to encourage retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson to seek Rubio’s open US Senate seat.” ’’ ” ’t’t’tCNN’s Dana Bash reports Ben Carson will likely be encouraged to run for Florida’s open Senate seat tomorrow. ’t’t” ’ Earlier in the night, Carson again pledged to stay in the race despite dismal finishes in almost every nominating state.’ ’”I am not moved or discouraged when the political class count me out,” Carson told supporters in Baltimore.’ ’10:53 p. m. EST  —   On CBS, Sen. Lindsey Graham, a longtime critic of Trump and Cruz, conceded the Republican party may need to rally around the Texas senator to defeat Trump.’ ’’ ’ ’t’t’tLindsey Graham on CBS just now: ”we may be in a position where we have to rally around Ted Cruz. ”’t’t’ ’10:17 p. m. EST  —   In his victory speech in Texas, Cruz pointed out that he was the only Republican candidate to have beaten Trump in any nominating states, and he called on his Republican rivals to consider dropping out.’ ’”Our campaign is the only campaign that has beat Donald Trump once, twice, three times,” Trump said.’ ’”To the candidates who have not won a state, who have not racked up significant delegates, I ask you to prayerfully consider our coming together. ”’ ’10:02 p. m. EST  —   Trump criticized Rubio for his recent sarcastic jabs at Trump. ’ ’”I always liked Marco until like a week ago,” Trump said. ”He decided to go hostile. He decided to become Don Rickles. But Don Rickles has a lot more talent. ”’ ’9:58 p. m. EST  —   Many observers on Twitter suggested that Christie looked uncomfortable next to Trump during a press conference in which the frontrunner celebrated his wins.’ ’’ ’  ’ ’9:49 p. m. EST  —   Trump again defended his initial refusal during a Sunday interview to denounce support from former Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke.’ ’”I disavow. How many times do I have to disavow?” Trump said. ”I disavow. ”’ ’9:40 p. m. EST  —   Trump slammed Clinton briefly during a press conference, asking supporters why she was criticizing his slogan.’ ’”She wants to make America whole again, and I’m trying to figure out what that’s all about,” Trump said. ”It’’s ’’Make America Great Again. ’’”’ ”9:37 p. m. EST  —   New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie appeared in front of an audience of supporters and journalists at Trump’s headquarters in Palm Beach, Florida, attempting to brand Trump as a party unifier.” ’9:16 p. m. EST  —   Democratic   packed in tight at Rocky Mountain High School in Fort Collins, Colorado where Business Insider reporter Julie Bort snapped a few pictures. ’ ’’ ’8:52 p. m. EST  —   Speaking at her headquarters in Miami, Florida, Clinton criticized Trump and his Republican presidential rivals.’ ’”It’’s clear tonight that the stakes have never been higher. And the rhetoric on the other side has never been lower. Trying to divide America between us and them is wrong, and it will never work,” Clinton said.’ ’8:35 p. m. EST  —   Fox News projected Trump would win Virginia.’ ”8:11 p. m. EST  —   With just over half of the precincts reporting in Virginia, Trump had 36% support, compared to Rubio’s 30% support. ” ’7:45 p. m. EST  —   Reuters projected Clinton the winner of the American Samoa caucuses.’ ’’ ’ ’t’t’tThe results from American Samoa are in.   ’ ’7:38 p. m. EST  —   The Associated Press projected early delegate wins on the Democratic side.’ ’’ ’ ’t’t’tClinton assured of at least 108 delegates; Sanders, at least 57 from GA, VA, VT.   ’ ”7:38 p. m. EST  —   Shortly after networks projected Sanders’ victory in Vermont, the senator took the stage at his primary night party, delivering a standard version of his stump speech about income and wealth inequality, and taking slight jabs at Clinton. ” ’”I know that Secretary Clinton and many of the establishment people are saying that I am looking and thinking too big,” Sanders said.’ ’”This campaign is not just about electing a president. It is about making a political revolution. ”’ ’Despite early losses in Georgia and Virginia, Sanders also assured supporters that he would remain in the race.’ ’”By the end of tonight we are going to win many hundreds of delegates,” Sanders said.’ ’”By the end of tonight, 15 states will have voted.   states remain. Let me assure you that we are going to take our fight for economic justice, for social justice, for environmental justice, for peace, to every one of those states. ”’ ’’ ’7: 12 p. m. EST  —   Though recent surveys showed Trump with a massive lead over his Republican rivals in Virginia, some exit polls hinted that the race may be closer .’ ’’ ’ ’t’t’tReally tight race, it appears in Virginia and Vermont. Based on CNN exit polls:Virginia: Trump   31Vermont: Trump   32’t’t’ ’7:06 p. m. EST  —   Immediately after the polls closed in Vermont, Virginia, and Georgia, several networks projected winners in the three Democratic contests. Clinton clinched Georgia and Virginia, while Sanders secured a win in his home state of Vermont. On the Republican side, outlets like Reuters and Fox News called Georgia for Trump.’ ’Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump dominated on. ..’