’’ ’’ ’Lockheed Martin’ ’Last month, we relayed to you the shocking news that Ukraine had officially shut down its Antonov Aviation Concern (AAC) the holding company that owned the Antonov Company, which builds .’ ”We also pointed out, though, that just because AAC is going out of business, this doesn’t necessarily keep Antonov Company from continuing to build airplanes.” ”In fact, they’re doing just that.” ’In particular, Antonov is continuing development of its vaunted   a       transport aircraft that first flew just last summer    and is already winning admirers around the globe. Designed to replace aging   ”Curl” and   ”Cline” military transports,   may also pose a threat to rival jets such as Alenia’’s   Spartan, Embraer’’s   and even Lockheed Martin’’s own  .’ ’The   boasts the ability to carry up to 99 soldiers or up to 10 tons of cargo as far as 4, 000 km unrefueled    or to carry greater masses on shorter hops.’ ”In particular,  reports that the plane is capable of hauling an   armored personnel carrier such as a Stryker APC. Relative to Lockheed’s   that means   can carry more troops, and only slightly less cargo.” ”Like the   Antonov’s   can both launch from and land on unimproved surfaces such as unpaved and gravel runways. Also like the   the   can be modified for missions including electronic warfare, aerial command, and airborne early warning.” ”Like Lockheed’s   it offers designs tweaked for every mission from surveillance to airborne refueling to gunship to Airborne Battlefield Command and Control Center (ABCCC). The   is a plane that could challenge Lockheed in many markets. In short, the   is more than just a transport.” ’As reported on  . com, Antonov signed a deal with Abu Dhabi’’s Maximus Air Cargo to become the airplane’’s ”launch customer.” It’’s unclear how many Maximus will buy. But we know that Saudi Arabia has already signed on to buy 30   and that Azerbaijan’’s Silk Way Airlines wants 10 more.’ ”China’s Beijing   Airspace and Technology Corporation is also interested    in buying the plane, and getting a license to build it in China.” ’Thus, even with only one   built so far, and no deliveries, the plane appears to have instant popularity among civilian operators, even before addressing the military market. But this plane looks admirably suited for a military debut as well.’ ”At a reported cost of just $45 million per plane,   appears to be one of the cheapest planes in its class    roughly half the cost of Embraer’s   and just   the price of Lockheed Martin’s   variant.” ”  appears to have just missed an appearance at . But we do know that Ukraine signed at least one significant defense equipment deal at IDEX last year. There’s every possibility that, if Antonov brings the plane to IDEX next year, it could score its first military contract there.” ’With more than 400 units in service globally, the   and      two of the Antonov planes that   could replace in world air fleets    are already two of the top 10 most popular military transports. That fact alone suggests that Antonov’’s   has a big ”replacement” market ahead of it.’ ”The multiple missions that   is being touted for, meanwhile, suggest that Antonov may have even bigger markets in mind. Historically, Lockheed Martin’s   has always been the plane to beat in this class.” ’ there are nearly 1, 000   in use around the globe today, in various configurations. Antonov would almost certainly like to get its hands on some of that market share, too.’ ’Judging from the initial enthusiasm buyers are showing for its plane    it just might succeed.’ ’Ukraine has lost Crimea, and much of its. ..’