’On Monday, Maria Sharapova gave a surprise press conference in which she announced that she had failed a . While Sharapova basically called the test an oversight on her part, former US tennis phenom Jennifer Capriati feels that the entire situation is far less innocent.’ ’Sharapova tested positive for a substance called meldonium, something she admits that she has been taking since 2006. The substance was just added to the list of banned substances by the ’ ’’ ’’ ’Im extremely angry and disappointed. I had to lose my career and never opted to cheat no matter what. i had to throw in the towel and suffer’ ”i didn’t have the high priced team of drs that found a way for me to cheat and get around the system and wait for science to catch up” ’the responses are exactly what i am talking about. everything based on illusion and lie driven by the media for over 20 yrs. beyond unfair’ ’something is wrong with the whole system. The intentions of the system was never morally grounded to begin with’ ’I just think it takes away from the sport and the hard work if true. Yes its hard to be kicked when down, when injured and out’ ”Everyone reading what’s written and assuming it’s true is wrong. It’s just wrong. all of it not true. Nothing of what u read is true” ’All the lies have robbed me of my life at some point enough is enough and a line must be drawn or you must fight back for pride and dignity’ ”What’s the point of someone taking a heart medicine that helps your heart recover faster unless you have a heart condition? Is thataccurate?” ”It’s always about one thing that benefits everyone.” ’The advantages are so subtle they can be just a hair width difference. that gives you only what you need to know to reach that extra level’ ”Sometimes it’s all about what gives you the most confidence to win” ’Why is this medication banned now?’ ’Maybe I should start taking it? Lol I might feel better’ ’If this medication helped me to comeback again would everyone be alright with me taking it?’ ’How much did it take away from the other persons food plate’ ”In my opinion of its all true every title should be stripped. This is other people’s lives as well” ’’ ’On Monday, Maria Sharapova gave a surprise. ..’