’’ ’Imagine spending a few days to learn a new programming language that would later turn you into a billionaire.’ ’In 2005, when Facebook was a tiny startup with 50 people, CEO Mark Zuckerberg was invited to give a lecture at his old school, Harvard.’ ’He was such a relative nobody at that time that hardly anybody showed up to hear him.’ ”But the lecture was posted a couple of years ago on YouTube, and it’s kind of fun to listen to it now, with   hindsight.” ’In 2005, Facebook was making some waves in its world. It was a social network for college students that had spread to 2, 000 schools and was generating around 400 million page views a day, Zuckerberg told the audience.’ ”That was, he estimated, more than Google was doing back then. Remember that, in 2005, Yahoo was still a big deal for searching the ’net and was considered one of the huge successful internet companies along with eBay and bookseller Amazon.” ’The best story he told was about how his roommate and fellow   student, Dustin Moskovitz, got involved with Facebook.’ ’Zuck had built Facebook in his dorm room using a programming language called PHP, and the site was instantly popular.’ ’”I started writing the site, launched it at Harvard in February 2004, so I guess about two years ago now. Within a couple of weeks, a few thousand people had signed up and we started getting some emails from people at other colleges asking for us to launch it at their schools,” he said.’ ’He was taking a hard but fun   class, ”but it didn’’t leave me with much time to do anything else with Facebook, so my roommate Dustin was like, ’’Hey, I want to help out. I want to help you do the expansion. ’’”’ ’Zuckerberg told  ”That’’s pretty cool. But you don’’t know any PHP. ”’ ’Fortunately, PHP was easy to learn, particularly if you knew the classic programming language C, which ’ ’”That weekend he went home, bought the book ’’PERL for Dummies,’’ came back, and was like, ’’OK, I’’m ready to go,’’” Zuck said, and told him, ”The site’’s written in PHP, not PERL, dude. ”’ ’Undeterred, ’ ’’ ’Facebook stock would later make him a young billionaire, too. Years later, a somewhat fictionalized account of their relationship would become a central theme in the book ”The Accidental Billionaires” which would lead to the movie ”The Social Network. ”’ ”And Zuck said something else in that lecture that’s really interesting in hindsight: He never planned on Facebook becoming the huge global phenomenon it is today.” ’”One characteristic of companies that are really successful, not that we’’re really successful, but we still fall into this bucket, is that they started off trying to make something cool and not trying to make a company,” he says.’ ”Here’s the full lecture, which is about an hour long, but ” ’’ ’Imagine spending a few days to learn a new. ..’