’’ ’When a helicopter pilot spotted the first crater in summer 2014, everyone was baffled.’ ’The    hole appeared on the Yamal Peninsula seemingly out of nowhere, during a tense season of Russian military action in Ukraine and international sanctions.’ ’And then . Lacking a better explanation, aliens and underground missiles were floated as possible theories, according The .’ ’But the truth is that the holes might come from a threat not even Mulder and Scully are equipped to handle: climate change.’ ’Scientific American reports that Arctic zones are  and summer 2014 was warmer than average by an alarming 9 degrees Fahrenheit, according to another . As a result, scientists at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) think that permafrost, the permanently frozen ground that covers the tundra, is starting to .’ ’So how does frozen methane blow a    hole in the ground?’ ’Given   temperatures and   pressure, methane and water can freeze together into what’’s called a ”methane hydrate.” Permafrost keeps everything bottled up, but when it thaws, so does the hydrate. Methane is released as a gas, building up pressure  —   until the ground explodes.’ ’Scientists gained more evidence for this theory after an expedition to the bottom of the crater. It revealed that the air had .’ ’’ ”It’s not just explosions and melting permafrost that we should worry about, either. The US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) states that methane is a greenhouse gas that could have  over the next century.” ”A significant addition to methane emissions would likely have a disastrous impact on our   atmospheric warming, since it’s 21 times better at trapping heat, .” ’Several outlets have even gone so far as to call this problem a ” . ”’ ’And it gets worse: One of the craters is just 6 miles from a   field. The  that the combination of the two flammable materials in such close proximity is a huge safety concern for the area. At least two of the craters have .’ ’There may be an alternate explanation, though. Land can collapse without a burst of methane in something called a  which forms when ice is trapped between layers of earth and distorts the top layer into a sort of mound. Thawing can make those mounds suddenly collapse.’ ”Even if the craters are the result of collapsing pingos, they’re still  and still dangerous.” ”What’s more, Slate reports, the same thing .” ”Whether pingo or exploding crater, it’s clear that climate change is affecting the Arctic more rapidly than any other place on earth, but researchers are only beginning to grasp how  will effect northern ecosystems.” ’During his visit to Alaska in September 2015, US President Barack Obama echoed the common sentiment that the Arctic is .’ ’These mysterious Siberian craters seem to be yet another warning sign that   climate change is quickly spinning out of control, causing new and unpredictable changes along the way.’ ’When a helicopter pilot spotted the first. ..’