”After a   week in the markets, the final week of March will be the month’s busiest.” ’The week will be bookended by   readings on inflation (Monday) and the   March jobs report (Friday).’ ’Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen is also set to speak on Tuesday afternoon before the Economic Club of New York.’ ’”Data flow this week is likely to highlight lackluster consumer demand with unimpressive sentiment, both on the consumer and manufacturing fronts, while hiring slows a touch,” write economists at BNP Paribas.’ ”And so after a week filled mostly with  and   this week will give us a broader outline of what’s happening in the US economy.” ”Here’s some received wisdom about how to save for retirement: buy   index funds and forget about them. ” ’The argument comes in two parts:  and fees kill your investments.’ ’One look at this chart from Vanguard and the idea is easily digested:’ ’’ ’But what happens when we all become passive indexers? ’ ’Writing in the latest of edition of GREED & Fear, Chris Wood at CLSA takes on this issue, arguing that every time the press seemingly cheers the underperformance of mutual and hedge funds relative to their benchmarks, markets get one step closer to something like market socialism in which all investors merely get the market return. ’ ’The worry, of course, is that without active winners and losers on either side: how does the market even get set? ’ ”Here’s Wood (emphasis mine):” ”And so looking at things from a psychological    if investing in a   index fund is the equivalent of eating your investing vegetables  —   you know it’s good for you in the long run, but right now it’s worse than ice cream or something  —   what happens when the vegetables make you sick? ” ”Said another way: if the S&P 500 goes down and you still lose money in that   index fund, will you have the discipline (or, since we’re all   indexers now, will we have the collective discipline) to keep putting money into these instruments that track the market? Or will you look for an active manager who has beaten the market recently and, you hope, will do so going forward?” ’Maybe. But maybe not. ’ ’Since the financial crisis, stock markets that have had the support of monetary authorities went basically straight up for a time and have remained resilient in the face of economic and political turmoil. And the best way to get the   on these indexes  —   which the   investor can see quoted on the nightly news or on many general news websites across the web  —   is to put money in a   index fund.’ ”But when this   becomes negative, you’d expect that many investors will begin asking themselves if there isn’t something they can do to make money elsewhere.” ’Get updates in your inbox.’ ’Subscribe to Monday Scouting Report and never miss an update!’ ’After a   week in the markets. ..’