’’ ’US President Barack Obama chastised GOP frontrunner Donald Trump in a   press conference, criticizing recent   pronouncements the   magnate made to  regarding Japan and South Korea.’ ’”They tell us that the person who made the statements doesn’’t know much about foreign policy or nuclear policy or the Korean Peninsula or the world, generally,” Obama said during the press conference, which came at the conclusion of the Nuclear Security Summit, which was attended by various world leaders in Washington, DC.’ ”In The Times interview, which centered on Trump’s foreign policy, the business mogul said that he’d be open to a   Japan and South Korea in exchange for the US easing up on security commitments.” ”Many   experts cast doubt on the effectiveness of Trump’s statements. They have called his suggestion a  with the propensity to fuel a regional or global   race.” ’”It would be a  ” Jeffrey Lewis, director of the East Asia   Program at the Middlebury Institute of International Studies, told Business Insider earlier this week. ”It would be a giant science experiment that I would not want to see. ”’ ’Obama said that world leaders brought up Trump’’s remarks on the US’’s major Asian allies ”on the sidelines” during the summit.’ ’”As I said before, people pay attention to American elections,” Obama said. ”What we do is really important to the rest of the world. And even in those countries that are used to a carnival atmosphere in their own politics want sobriety and clarity when it comes to US elections. ”’ ’”They understand the president of the United States needs to know what’’s going on around the world and put in place the kinds of policies that lead not only to our security and prosperity, but will have an impact on everybody else’’s security and prosperity,” he continued.’ ”Obama hasn’t been the only Democratic leader critical of Trump.” ’ with Henry Blodget, Business Insider’’s CEO and editor in chief, former US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, the Democratic frontrunner, said that world leaders have sent her ”bewildered” messages after being asked about some of Trump’’s recent remarks regarding his   views.’ ’”They want to know what’’s going on,” she said. ”And the amount of publicity that he gets, the coverage that he gets  —   so he said some very   dangerous thing, and it’’s around the world in a nanosecond. ”’ ’’ ’President Obama: Trump’’s nuclear comments show he doesn’’t know about ”the world generally”  ’ ’US President Barack Obama chastised GOP. ..’