’’ ”Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s visit to Washington, DC, to attend President Barack Obama’s final nuclear summit has been anything but smooth.” ”The nadir was perhaps on Wednesday, when  that Erdogan had hosted a   dinner for Washington’s   establishment  —   including   and former government officials  —   the night before.” ’During that meeting, he reportedly blasted Obama for using Syrian Kurdish fighters as a proxy force to fight the Islamic State terror group.’ ’”He pretty much threw the administration under the bus,” one attendee  John Hudson. ’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’Bremmer noted, however, that the cold shoulder Erdogan and his ruling Justice and Development (AKP) Party have received from Washington is not without its drawbacks.’ ’”Erdogan has a fiery temper and has plenty of friends in the beltway  —   they’’re a serious military equipment purchaser and more generally an important market for plenty of US companies,” Bremmer said. ”On top of that, they’’re a NATO ally that’’s had their territory regularly breached by the Russians, but they get none of the support that Poland and the Baltic states have been receiving. ”’ ’Bremmer pointed to an incident in November, when Turkey shot down a Russian warplane that had purportedly violated its airspace and the White House told Erdogan to ”cool it, in no uncertain terms. ”’ ’”Now Russian sanctions are taking a big bite (some $10 [billion] a year) out of Turkey’’s economy,” he said.’ ’Dr. Aykan Erdemir, a senior fellow at the Washington,   think tank Foundation for Defense of Democracies, said, ”Erdogan is trying to ’ ’”If Erdogan secures a    with Obama, and good photo opportunities, he will present this as evidence of his approval by the US, and use it to promote his image as a ’’respected world leader’’ back in Turkey,” Erdemir, a former member of Turkish parliament, told Business Insider in an email.’ ’ Erdogan had expected that he would not be granted ”a royal welcome in Washington,” which may explain why he has not made much of an effort to soften his image here in the US.’ ’During a televised ’ ’’ ’’ ’”Erdogan is aware that the Turkish economy is on the verge of a downward spiral, and he is desperate about attracting foreign direct investment,” Erdemir said. ”He is trying to reassure potential investors worried about the lack of rule of law in Turkey that even under his authoritarian rule business could be profitable. ”’ ’Bremmer largely agreed.’ ’’ ”Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s visit. ..”