SEOUL, South Korea  —   President Park   acted as a criminal accomplice for her longtime friend in extorting tens of millions of dollars from businesses, prosecutors said on Sunday, dealing another blow to the South Korean leader, who faced a nationwide call to step down. Under the country’s Constitution, prosecutors cannot indict the president on criminal charges until after she leaves office. But their findings further weakened Ms. Park’s authority, and prompted opposition leaders, as well as some members of Ms. Park’s governing party, to demand on Sunday that Parliament start a legal process to impeach her. On Saturday, huge crowds protested in Seoul and other major cities for the fourth straight weekend, demanding that she resign or face impeachment. Prosecutors identified Ms. Park as an accomplice and a “criminal suspect” on Sunday while indicting her friend, Choi   on criminal charges including extortion and abuse of official power. A former presidential aide to Ms. Park was also indicted on Sunday, on the same charges, as prosecutors accused him of helping Ms. Choi with the extortion. Another former presidential aide was indicted on charges of leaking confidential government documents to Ms. Choi. Although she had no experience in government or policy making, Ms. Choi was accused of meddling in a wide range of state affairs, like editing Ms. Park’s speeches and helping her appoint key officials. “We have determined that President Park was an accomplice in many of the criminal acts” of Ms. Choi and the two former aides, Lee   a senior prosecutor, said during a nationally televised news briefing. Mr. Lee said prosecutors had based their determination partly on information they collected from the two former aides’ notebooks, diaries and cellphones, which contained instructions from Ms. Park. Ms. Park is the first sitting president of South Korea to be accused by prosecutors of a criminal conspiracy. Later Sunday, her office accused prosecutors of losing their political neutrality. “The investigators’ announcement today was completely untrue,” said Jung   Ms. Park’s spokesman. “It was nothing but a house of cards that ignored objective evidence. ” Ms. Choi, the president’s friend, was accused of forcing Samsung, Hyundai and 51 other major businesses to donate a total of $65 million to two foundations she controlled. The businesses feared tax inquiries and other governmental retaliation if they did not donate, Mr. Lee said. Ms. Choi was also accused of forcing businesses to give contracts amounting to $12 million to companies controlled by her or her associates. They also tried in vain to wrest control of a lucrative public relations agency through blackmailing, Mr. Lee said. And they forced Lotte, a South Korean conglomerate, to donate $5. 9 million for sports facilities under Ms. Choi’s control, he said. (The money was later returned.) Ms. Choi is a daughter of a religious figure who befriended Ms. Park in the 1970s, when Ms. Park’s father, the military dictator Park   was in power. Ms. Choi’s father, Choi   was accused of using his influence with Ms. Park to collect bribes from businesses. South Koreans have expressed outrage that Ms. Park has maintained questionable links to the Choi family for 40 years. A key question that was not addressed by prosecutors on Sunday was whether Ms. Park and her office had tried to cover up the scandal. Officials who tried to raise alarms have been demoted, fired and even imprisoned. According to recent opinion polls, Ms. Park has become the least popular leader since South Korea moved toward democracy in the late 1980s. All the major South Korean daily newspapers, as well as all opposition parties and even some members of Ms. Park’s party, have called on her to resign. But Ms. Park has refused to do so. Instead, she has reasserted her presidential role in the past week by appointing new ambassadors and senior government officials. She also instructed her Justice Ministry to investigate a separate corruption scandal involving a real estate developer. Ms. Park has refused to face questioning by prosecutors, although they repeatedly said they needed to interrogate her in person. Her lawyer, Yoo   has said Ms. Park needs more time to prepare. She also preferred to be questioned in writing, he said. On Sunday, Ms. Park’s lawyer said that she would not allow prosecutors to question her. Ms. Park’s office also indicated that she would rather wait to see if the National Assembly impeached her. The embattled loyalists of Ms. Park have begun fighting back in the past week, accusing the protesters of trying her in a “people’s court. ” A former prime minister for Ms. Park accused her enemies of a “witch hunt. ” On Saturday, conservatives held a rally in support of Ms. Park, although it was much smaller than the antigovernment protests. Ms. Park’s attitude sets the stage for a prolonged political drama. Her   term is scheduled to end in February 2018. But impeaching Ms. Park could be a political risk for the opposition parties. They need approval from   of the   National Assembly to pass an impeachment bill. Ms. Park’s party controls 129 seats, enough to block the bill, although some of its members said they would support her impeachment. By law, the parliamentary impeachment must also be approved by   of the   Constitutional Court. The process would take months and could prove divisive. Prosecutors said they would continue to investigate the scandal. The National Assembly has passed a bill to begin a separate investigation this month by an independent counsel. Ms. Park’s office said she would cooperate with the counsel.