’Pfizer is leaning toward walking away from its proposed megamerger with Allergan as new US regulations put more pressure on the deal, Reuters  citing an unnamed source.’ ’The $160 billion deal was pitched as a way to help Pfizer cut its tax bill by relocating its domicile to Ireland, where Allergan is based. The tax rate for corporations in Ireland is 12. 5% far less than the US rate.’ ’Because the move can be seen as fleeing the US, tax inversions are not particularly politically popular. When the deal was announced in November, presidential candidates Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont and  were among many who took a stance against it.’ ’The government can discourage inversions by eliminating some of their economic benefits. One practice the Treasury on Monday said it would target is called  a way of jacking up interest payments to lower tax bills.’ ”Pfizer’s lawyers have presented ways to salvage the deal in light of the Treasury Department’s new measures, but the company did not seem inclined to pursue the megamerger, according to Reuters’ source.” ’’ ’On Tuesday,  and shares of Allergan dropped .’ ’Also on Tuesday, Bloomberg reported that Pfizer was scrambling to save the deal, and could either challenge the .’ ’Pfizer has said that it would review the newest actions and declined ”to speculate on any potential impact” until it was done with that.’ ”This isn’t the first time the Treasury has tried to squash a   merger. In 2014, AbbVie called off its inversion deal with Shire after the Treasury announced .” ”The changing rules don’t necessarily mean that the deal will be off entirely, according to Sachin Shah, a Albert Fried” ’’ ’”But I suspect the price would be different,” he added.’ ’Shares of Allergan fell more than 16% on Tuesday morning, while shares of Pfizer rose by less than 1%.’ ’’ ’The companies have anticipated the potential for the government to make rule changes that could kill the deal.’ ’When they announced the deal in November, Pfizer and Allergan said  that if a deal between Pfizer and Allergan didn’’t go through because shareholders of one company objected or because a ”superior proposal” appeared, the companies would pay a breakup fee of up to $3. 5 billion.’ ’But if the deal were to break because of a change in the law  —   under which this Treasury move would fall  —   that termination fee falls to just $400 million.’ ”The Treasury Department didn’t specifically refer to Pfizer’s deal in its statement. :” ”Here’s the Treasury’s plan, according to the release:” ’Pfizer is leaning toward walking away from its. ..’