’’ ’I did nothing wrong. That’s the gist of how many individuals connected with the “” —  the millions of leaked documents exposing how a  Mossack Fonseca, helped the rich and powerful park their wealth in tax havens and offshore bank accounts or shell companies —    .’ ’And in many cases, they may be telling the truth. As The New York Times  “Holding money in an offshore company is generally not illegal, although such financial arrangements can be used in illegal ways —  for example, to facilitate tax evasion or money laundering. ”’ ’Wear a ski mask around town on a warm day, perhaps for a perfectly good reason (you’re a celebrity trying to avoid paparazzi, you ran out of sunscreen) and you’ll probably invite suspicion. Because it looks like you might rob a bank.’ ’The release of the Panama Papers is a bit like  the 1998 film about a man, Truman Burbank, who gradually realizes he’s spent 30 years on the set of a reality TV show in which he’s the star. In the last scene, Truman is sailing a boat when its bow pierces the artificial sky —  hinting at a world beyond the show’s set.’ ’The leaks, from just one law firm in one country, have similarly pierced the screen that normally conceals a vast network of financial secrecy. But on the other side, there’s a much bigger world that, for most people, remains unexplored.’ ’And this elite world has an impact on the world your Average Truman inhabits. In a  the British charity Oxfam argued that the use of tax havens by individuals and corporations is contributing to growing economic inequality around the world.’ ’It cited a finding by Gabriel Zucman, an economist and the author of  that $7. 6 trillion, or 8 percent of individual financial wealth in 2014, is held in offshore tax havens, resulting in $190 billion in lost annual tax revenue for governments from Africa to Latin America.’ ’(Zucman  that roughly  of offshore funds aren’t reported to tax authorities and that the amount of money in tax havens has been increasing in recent years; other experts  that the amount of private offshore wealth may be two to four times as high as Zucman’s figure of $7. 6 trillion. Needless to say, measuring the size of an industry whose purpose, in part, is to obscure its size isn’t easy or precise. )’ ’’ ’The Panama Papers offer a somewhat skewed, if unusually vivid, view of the global system of tax avoidance. Consider, for instance, the 10 most popular tax havens that appear in Mossack Fonseca’s files. One out of every two companies that the law firm established for its clients was incorporated in the British Virgin Islands.’ ’’ ’Critics —  including  listed in the ranking —   that the Tax Justice Network’s approach is subjective and insufficiently rigorous, and some have questioned specific aspects of the FSI’s methodology.’ ’Christian Humborg, formerly of Transparency International,  that the weighting the Tax Justice Network employs tends to shoot large financial centers like the U. S. and Germany to the top of the list, even when their “secrecy scores” aren’t particularly high. “If there are reliable estimates of the size of illicit financial flows into a country, this might be an alternative number to consider,” Humborg suggests.’ ’But if nothing else, the index is a valuable exercise in  about financial secrecy —  the notion that a state is either an otherworldly   or   haven, or it’s not. Instead, “a global industry has developed involving the world’s biggest banks, law practices, accounting firms and specialist providers who design and market secretive offshore structures for their   and   clients,” the Tax Justice Network . “‘Competition’ between jurisdictions to provide secrecy facilities has, particularly since the era of financial globalisation really took off in the 1980s, become a central feature of global financial markets. ”’ ’Think of the jurisdictions with higher values in the map below as the places that, in the Tax Justice Network’s view, have contributed most to the global financial flows we tend not to see. (The dark red indicates high values, the dark blue low values. Zoom in to explore particular regions; some jurisdictions are not visible. )’ ’But there are limits to what geography can teach about financial secrecy. In a  for the Tax Justice Network, James Henry, the former chief economist at the consulting firm McKinsey, noted that the reality of offshore tax havens is more convoluted than it appears on a map:’ ’[P]rivate banking has long since become virtual. So the term “offshore” refers not so much to the actual physical location of private assets or liabilities, but to nominal,     often quite temporary locations of networks of legal and   entities and arrangements that manage and control private wealth —  always in the interests of those who manage it, supposedly in the interests of its beneficial owners, and often in indifference or outright defiance of the interests and laws of multiple nation states.’ ’A painting or a bank account may be located inside Switzerland’s borders, but the   legal structure that owns it —  typically that asset would be owned by an anonymous offshore company in one jurisdiction, which is in turn owned by a trust in another jurisdiction, whose trustees are in yet another jurisdiction (and that is one of the simplest offshore structures) —  is likely to be fragmented in many pieces around the globe.’ ’The geography of financial secrecy —  which manages to be fragmented,   and interwoven all at once —  helps explain why reforming the practices on display in the Panama Papers is so difficult. Consider the United States, for example.’ ’The U. S. government has made real progress in combatting such behavior: Congress  legislation requiring foreign banks to report information about their American clients, and the Obama administration is now  a new rule under which financial institutions would have to determine the identities of people who have established shell companies.’ ’’ ’At the same time, the United States has not joined nearly 100 countries in agreeing to participate in an embryonic, multinational  organized by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.’ ’And U. S. states like Delaware and Nevada have  . Americans “discovered that they really don’t need to go to Panama,” Henry, of the Tax Justice Network,  Fusion earlier this week. “Basically, we have an onshore haven industry in the U. S. that is as secretive as anywhere. ”’ ’Similarly, British Prime Minister David Cameron  tax secrecy and is even planning to host an international   summit in May and  a public registry for the “beneficial owners” of British companies in June.’ ’But he himself  a $40, 000 stake in his father’s offshore trust, and “the British Empire has shrunk into a number of   jurisdictions   …     for companies to bury their wealth,” as Geoffrey Robertson, a   lawyer,  the BBC this week. Offshore financial activity  to the United Kingdom’s economic growth.’ ’The Panama Papers show “the weakness at this stage of the international community,” Robertson argued. “That community has finally a few years ago set up an international court to deal with atrocities. We have quite a good organization in Vienna that inspects potential nuclear developments.’ ’We have taken some action against trafficking in humans and drugs. But we haven’t really tackled international tax avoidance. We haven’t tackled the secret movement of the money of the wealthy for various often nefarious, sometimes legitimate purposes. And that’s the real problem. ”’ ’Political will is lacking in part because, as we’ve seen this past week, many politicians take advantage of financial secrecy to manage their own wealth. But another reason is the formidable challenge of “getting international agreement for some form of convention,” Robertson said. “The first thing is to ensure that offshore trusts, offshore companies are registered with their beneficial owners.’ ’It’s transparency.   …     And then you have to have an international enforcement body which can have the power, and that has to be granted by an international convention, to go into countries, to go into lawyers’ offices and banks and find evidence of  . ”’ ’Such obstacles stand in the way of a host of potentially transformational reforms, ranging from an  to a  to help tax authorities monitor assets. Until those obstacles are overcome, leaks like the Panama Papers may offer illuminating glimpses into the geography of financial secrecy. But they’re unlikely to scramble or shrink it.’ ’I did nothing wrong. That’s the gist of. ..’