’With a  and  El Niño on the wane, the implications of its are starting to settle in.’ ’But there’s new evidence that, on its heels, a potentially strong La Niña could emerge later this year —  bringing with it a renewed stretch of extreme weather.’ ’On Thursday, the National   Ensemble, a blend of the most reliable seasonal forecasts available, showed the clearest signal yet that  likely ushering in La Niña conditions.’ ’Here’s exactly what’s about to happen, as explained by the fine folks at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration:’ ’’ ’A consensus of   computer models now show La Niña conditions emerging by around July, and should peak this winter at a moderate intensity. Though this time of year is known for its  of this sort, virtually every strong El Niño on record  to at least a weak La Niña, and there’s no reason to believe that this year will be any different. An additional boost of confidence: A few weeks ago, NOAA researchers fixed a bug in one of their flagship   models, which had been showing a continuation of El Niño conditions until 2017.  it’s gotten on board with the La Niña forecast, too.’ ’So, you ask, what does La Niña mean for me?’ ’In general, La Niña helps slacken   wind shear over the tropical Atlantic, which means it assists in the formation of hurricanes. This year, there’s specific reason to believe those hurricanes may be more likely to head for the U. S. An objective pattern matching technique based on  showed similarities to seasons that favored hurricane strikes in Texas, Florida, the Southeast, and New England.’ ’’ ’ ’t’t’tTop 5 objective analogs for NMME summer forecast: 1988, 1970, 2013, 1973, 1954. The resulting TC frequency anomaly:  ’ ’Now, it’s impossible to predict specific hurricane landfalls this far in advance, but the United States is  for a major hit. It may not happen this year, but it’s slightly more likely to eventually happen in a La Niña year.’ ’If we make it through hurricane season relatively unscathed, this winter may provide additional extreme weather relief, at least when it comes to  the Northeast has grown accustomed to in recent years. Though La Niña winters are typically colder than average in the Northeast, much of the fuel for the big blizzards will be gone: The hyperactive tropical jet stream that’s a feature of El Niño will be a shell of its former self.’ ’The center of the country will likely be a meteorological battleground this winter, and we could see a return of the warm   East pattern that seemed to drag on indefinitely during the winters of   and  . The weakened tropical jet stream means rainfall will be less likely for the next several months in Texas, barring any tropical storm or hurricane landfall, of course.’ ’In the winter of   Mt. Baker in Washington state : The most snow ever in a single season, 95 feet. Ski bums in the Pacific Northwest got a  this past winter, as the El Niño didn’t conform to the traditional pattern there, but this coming winter should be even better.’ ’Thanks to  key reservoirs across northern California are nearly full for the first time in years. However, this year’s snowpack was  and things are only looking worse from here. La Niñas are typically bad news for California, and this coming winter shouldn’t be any different:  of the NMME are pointing toward a   start to this winter’s rainy season there, and  from global warming will ensure that storing snow will be especially challenging this year too.’ ’There are, of course,  of La Niña worldwide as well: A big uptick in flooding in Southeast Asia, a   normal monsoon season in India, drought in Peru and Argentina, and reduced risk of typhoon strikes in East Asia.’ ’In the meantime, during the transition, odds are that  particularly in the United States, where, for the last two months, has been warmer than average. (South central Alaska, under the influence of a very warm El   Pacific, has had warmer than average temperatures for .)  show that last month was the 11th consecutive monthly temperature record worldwide. This streak should end (finally!) sometime later this spring or this summer as the switch from El Niño to La Niña emerges. Global temperatures will still be much warmer than normal stretching into 2017 (thanks to climate change) but just not quite as   as we’ve grown accustomed to over the last year.’ ’With a monstrous and   El. ..’