’’ ’Facebook thinks that  but the developers who will be responsible for ushering it in still need a lot of convincing.’ ’The social network is trying to revolutionize the way people and businesses communicate with the  ”smart” chatbots for automating conversations with users.’ ’The thesis here is that people hate talking on the phone and downloading new apps, so chatbots within Messenger are a new avenue for customer service, sales, and content distribution.’ ”Facebook launched its beta platform with 33 partners  —   for example, Staples has a bot to answer product questions, a startup called Spring has one to sell people apparel, and CNN’s will blast out links to news stories.” ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’Although he can see the eventual benefits of an automated system to help new customers easily create their books by pulling photos from Facebook, the current tech isn’’t ”there yet. ”’ ’”Bots are unlikely to have much of an immediate impact other than creating a ton of buzz that companies will overreact to,” says Forrester analyst Julie Ask.’ ’It might be easy to order an Uber, but other experiences will still feel clunky for a while.’ ’”A lot of heavy lifting has to be done in AI and other supporting technologies for these experiences to be truly magical,” she said.’ ’’ ’’ ”Without real proof that users will embrace chatbots, smaller companies with a bunch of other tech problems to work on don’t see setting up a bot as a big priority.” ’’ ’His enthusiasm represents a line Facebook will have to straddle very carefully: Making an investment in chat worthwhile for businesses without alienating users.’ ”If people already  they won’t use them. And if developers don’t hear proof about how bots drive real sales or increase customer satisfaction, they won’t bother building them.” ”That’s because monetization is a big factor. An employee at a big media company said that the jury would be out until it was clear that bots really drove traffic. He also expressed annoyance that this new bot experience seems to have ” ’’ ’’ ”Something else we heard several times was a call for Facebook to release numbers around Messenger’s daily active users, .” ’’ ’’ ’’ ’Facebook is trying to eat the internet.’ ”At least, that’s the perception of some developers who feel uneasy at the thought of someday relinquishing their app experience to ” ’”It feels inevitable,” one startup developer sighed, believing that when Facebook wants something, it usually gets it.’ ”Others aren’t so sure.” ’”They’’re trying to create this paradigm shift,” an exec at a   company said, ”but I doubt they can make it work. ”’ ”   even Facebook’s gargantuan size isn’t a guarantee that they’ll take off.  but we don’t have real proof yet that users will be, too.” ’’ ’’ ’’ ”Stan Chudnovsky, head of product for messaging, says he hopes that at next year’s F8, Facebook will be able to regale the world with success stories from tens of thousands of bots:” ”Facebook thinks that we’re at the start of a. ..”