SAN FRANCISCO  —   For the last six years, Instagram has been a repository for users’ most picturesque moments. But 2016 has been a year of reinvention for the   social network, which has broadened what it lets people do with their images. Now Instagram, which is owned by Facebook, is rolling out two more new features. On Monday, the company is unveiling one feature focused on live video and one on ephemeral messaging. Both tap into a type of sharing popularized in recent years by companies like Snap Inc. which runs Snapchat, and Twitter, in its   video app Periscope. “We want Instagram to be a place where you can share all of your moments, to create a   space to do so,” Kevin Weil, head of product at Instagram, said in an interview. Mr. Weil said this philosophy, and the feature choices that stem from it, would encourage people to use Instagram for more than the selected, highly polished feeds for which it is known. The new features thrust Instagram more directly into competition with Twitter and into a heightened rivalry with Snap, which is particularly notable as Snap recently filed paperwork to go public. Instagram has steadily been introducing features to compete with Snap. This year, it unveiled a feature called Instagram Stories, which mimics a Snapchat feature called Snapchat Stories, in which people can organize their photos into a story line. Instagram’s   feature will be released to a small test group on Monday a wider rollout is planned for the weeks to come. The feature lets Instagram users broadcast live video to their followers through the Stories section of the app. Much as in Twitter’s Periscope, friends and followers watching Instagram live videos can comment and send cartoon hearts to the broadcaster during the stream. But live Instagram videos are meant to be fleeting and cannot be saved to watch later. That gives broadcasters room to express themselves more fully, Mr. Weil said, without the added pressure of the raw video sticking around indefinitely. Instagram’s other new feature, disappearing photos and videos within the company’s private messaging tool, will be available to all its users. While an ephemeral live broadcast may be seen by many, disappearing messages are for the few, usually friends or family in a tighter circle than the wider audience of followers. Disappearing messages were made famous by Snapchat, which was able to draw a generation of young regular users. Snapchat rose to prominence in a   era of social media, one in which people grew fond of the idea that their digital history did not have to follow them around the internet in perpetuity. Mr. Weil defended the company’s move into ephemeral sharing and pointed to improvements and product adjustments that he said highlighted Instagram’s innovation with the format. “The format is definitely something that Snapchat innovated on,” Mr. Weil said. “But it’s just like how hashtags started on Twitter and are used everywhere. I think this particular format is one that we will see adopted everywhere else. ”