’ we’ve seen throughout the markets is being reflected in fund manager sentiment as we’re getting mixed messages involving cash and low conviction levels. It seems the fears of a global recession are starting to fade, however, according to the latest edition of Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Fund Manager Survey.’ ’Chief Investment Strategist Michael Hartnett said in a report dated April 12 that cash levels climbed from 5. 1% to 5. 4% this month, according to their latest survey. He said this jump symbolizes the direction in sentiment among the world’s fund managers, although it runs counter to the conviction level, which he said tumbled to its lowest level in 18 months.’ ’Fund managers are concerned about Quantitative Failure as this is the first time they turned Underweight on Japanese equities since December 2012. They’re also worried about a lack of   to the massive short squeeze we saw last month in commodities, resources, and emerging markets.’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’The BAML strategist believes the current cash levels are “superficially bullish” right now, adding that cash almost never climbs so much during a risk rally. He said they’ve only recorded nine times this has happened since January 1998. They also saw the seventh highest bond and equity valuation reading in 13 years, which he explains is the best reason for this phenomenon.’ ’Hartnett said they now have a contrarian buy signal for equities according to their FMS Cash Rule. The rule states that an average cash balance higher than 4. 5% triggers a contrarian Buy signal, while a cash balance below 3. 5% triggers a contrarian Sell signal.’ ’’ ’BAML’s survey indicates a strong rotation into Consumer Staples and cash and away from Japan, Consumer Discretionary, Commodities and the Eurozone.’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’Hartnett said fund managers’ expectations for global growth remain low but are stable and that 82% say  is “unlikely” over the next 12 months. He said 10% of fund managers expect the economy to improve this month, which is down slightly from 11% last month.’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’The volatility we’ve seen throughout the. ..’