’’ ”IBM just reported its  and we’re looking through them now.” ’It reported Q1 earnings per share at $2. 35 a share vs. expectations of $2. 09 a share.’ ’Revenue of $18. 68 billion was reported, beat expectations of’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’IBM (NYSE: ) today announced   2016 earnings results.’ ’”We are pleased with the progress we have made helping our clients apply new cognitive solutions and hybrid cloud platforms,” said Ginni Rometty, IBM chairman, president and chief executive officer. ”IBM has established itself as the industry leader in total cloud, analytics and cognitive, all of which helped drive our strategic imperatives revenue growth at a strong   rate, substantially faster than the market. ”’ ’ ’ ’”In the first quarter, we invested $3. 6 billion in acquisitions and capital expenditures, and returned $2. 2 billion to shareholders through dividends and gross share repurchases,” said Martin Schroeter, IBM senior vice president and chief financial officer. ”We will continue to invest as we transform our operations, expanding our industry expertise and our cognitive and cloud capabilities. ”’ ’Strategic Imperatives’ ’  revenues from the company’s strategic imperatives  —   cloud, analytics and engagement  —   increased 14 percent year to year (up 17 percent adjusting for currency). Total cloud revenues (public, private and hybrid) for the quarter increased 34 percent (up 36 percent adjusting for currency). Cloud revenue over the trailing 12 months was $10. 8 billion. The annual exit run rate for cloud delivered as a service  —   a subset of the total cloud revenue  —   increased to $5. 4 billion from $3. 8 billion in the first quarter of 2015. Revenues from analytics increased 7 percent (up 9 percent adjusting for currency).  Revenues from mobile increased 88 percent (up 93 percent adjusting for currency) and from security increased 18 percent (up 20 percent adjusting for currency).’ ’  2016 Expectations’ ’IBM continues to expect   2016 operating ( ) diluted earnings per share of at least $13. 50. The company expects GAAP diluted earnings per share of at least $12. 35. The 2016 operating ( ) earnings expectation excludes $1. 15 per share of charges for amortization of purchased intangible assets, other   charges and   charges.’ ’IBM had previously expected a free cash flow realization of GAAP net income which implied a   free cash flow range of $11 billion to $12 billion. The company now expects free cash flow to be at the high end of that range at the same base level of operating ( ) EPS.’ ’  Income and Tax Rate’ ’The decrease in the company’s   income was primarily the result of increased expenses for workforce transformation, real estate actions, and actions in Latin America, which totaled nearly $1. 5 billion.’ ’IBM’s tax rate for the first quarter includes a $1. 0 billion refund of previously paid  . S. taxes, plus interest, for a total benefit of $1. 2 billion. This is the result of a   tax matter which was resolved in the company’s favor in February and was disclosed in the 2015 IBM Annual Report. The impact of the tax refund on the company’s   net income was largely equivalent on an   basis to the expenses for workforce transformation, real estate actions, and actions in Latin America.’ ’Cash Flow and Balance Sheet’ ’The company generated free cash flow of $2. 3 billion in the first quarter, excluding Global Financing receivables, up $1. 2 billion year to year. IBM returned $1. 2 billion in dividends and $0. 9 billion of gross share repurchases to shareholders. At the end of March 2016, IBM had $4. 7 billion remaining in the current share repurchase authorization.’ ’IBM ended the   2016 with $14. 9 billion of cash on hand, an increase of $6. 7 billion since   2015. Debt, including Global Financing debt of $26. 8 billion, totaled $45. 6 billion, compared with $39. 9 billion at   2015. Core (  financing) debt totaled $18. 8 billion, an increase of $6. 1 billion since   2015. The balance sheet remains strong and is well positioned to support the business over the long term.’ ’Segment Results’ ’As announced in February during the company’s Investor Briefing, IBM has revised its financial reporting structure to reflect the transformation of the business and provide investors with increased visibility into the company’s operating model by disclosing additional information on its strategic imperatives revenue by segment. Beginning with the   2016, IBM’s business segments and results are:’ ’IBM just reported its   earnings. ..’