’’ ’Baltimore police shot and wounded a    boy who was carrying a replica handgun on Wednesday, the anniversary of a riot sparked by the death of Freddie Gray while in police custody.’ ’Baltimore Police Commissioner Kevin Davis told reporters that two plainclothes detectives spotted the teenager carrying what appeared to be a firearm, identified themselves, and gave chase when he ran away. ’ ’”This is exactly what our community expects a police officer to do when they see someone with a firearm,” Davis said. ”Why this young man chose to flee on foot when he was approached by two Baltimore police officers, I don’’t know. ”’ ’Davis said there was ’ ’’ ”The boy’s mother was taken in for questioning and told police she knew her son left home with the replica firearm, Davis said. The weapon turned out to be a    BB gun by the brand Daisy.” ’Davis said even after his   law enforcement career, he could have mistaken it for an authentic gun.’ ’’ ’’ ’”No cop wants to shoot anybody,” Garrity said. ”Nobody. But if somebody’’s got a gun, how am I supposed to tell these officers, ’’Hey, make sure that he shoots you first, and then you can do it? ’’”’ ’”But if he not pointing it at police, why do they got the right to shoot?” the young man asked.’ ’”He did,” Garrity replied.’ ’Wednesday marked the   anniversary of rioting in Baltimore following the  while in police custody. Gray had suffered a spinal cord injury after a ride in the back of a police transport van.  have been charged in his death and await trial.’ ”Gray’s death was one of several incidents  —   including the fatal shooting of    Tamir Rice in Cleveland, Ohio and death of Michael Brown in Ferguson, Mo.  —   to prompt nationwide protests and debate regarding racial profiling and deadly use of force by police officers.” ”The news of the shooting was met with outrage online, as users took to Twitter to decry the officers’ conduct towards the boy, including DeRay Mckesson, the prominent Black Lives Matter activist and recently defeated Baltimore mayoral candidate.” ’’ ’ ’t’t’tWe have to fundamentally change the Baltimore City Police Department. Police violence cannot be acceptable. ’t’t’ ’ ’t’t’tWe have more questions than answers today. Why did the Baltimore officers approach the 13 year old child? Why did they shoot him? ’t’t’ ’’ ’ ’t’t’tOne year later, and seems every step we take to rebuild trust between officers and community, a new incident shatters that trust.  ’ ” ’t’t’tPlainclothes police in an unmarked car.. How can the commissioner be so surprised that a 13 year old would run away? That’s why he was shot? ’t’t” ” ’t’t’tnot about whether the gun is real, it’s about the rules of engagement. and the fact they shot someone in the back. ’t’t” ’ ’ ’Baltimore police shot and wounded a   . ..’