’’ ”That’s the summary of a big piece of research from the McKinsey Global Institute (MGI) which estimated returns over the next 20 years in US and Western European markets under two scenarios. ” ’It concluded that in neither case would returns match those of the past 30 years. For US and European stocks, the difference between past and future annual returns could range from 1. 5 percentage points to 4 percentage points. The gap for   could be even wider, between 3 and 5 percentage points for most countries, the report notes.’ ’”What’’s surprising is that even if there’’s higher GDP growth, we find that returns in equity and bonds over the next 20 years would still be lower,” Susan Lund, a partner at the institute and one of the coauthors of the report, told Business Insider.’ ’That means investors will have to save more, retire later, or live less comfortably during retirement, which could further drag down economic growth. A seemingly small difference in numbers can actually be pretty scary.’ ”Here’s an example by MGI (emphasis added):” ’’ ’It marks a stark difference to the ”golden age” of stock market performance from 1985 to 2014, which was marked by sharp declines in inflation, robust growth in China, and strong   growth.’ ’Real total returns in equities for US investors were 1. 4 percentage points above the   average, while those in Western Europe were 3 percentage points above. For bonds, real returns were 3. 3 percentage points above the   average in the US, and 4. 2 percentage points above in Europe.’ ”But those historical drivers just aren’t there anymore. Interest rates have little room to drop further. Some countries have already joined the negative   policy club.” ’’ ”And it doesn’t stop there. Lower returns could dampen household consumption and widen an already underfunded   gap, which currently stands at $1. 2 trillion. That could expand by between $1 trillion and $2 trillion if returns hit the low end of McKinsey’s projections.” ’’ ’The ”golden age” of stock market returns. ..’