’’ ’Contrary to what her husband thinks, Jane Sanders does want to hear about Hillary Clintons’ “damn emails. ”’ ’“Right after the debate where he said, ‘enough of your damn emails,’ he also said, ‘there’s a process  —   it’s going forward,’ ” Sanders, the wife of Democratic presidential hopeful Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont, said Thursday night during an interview on  Fox Business.’ ’“It’s an FBI investigation, and we want to let it go through without politicizing it and then we’ll find what the situation is. That’s how we still feel. I mean, it would be nice if the FBI moved it along,” she joked.’ ’Sanders has largely held off from attacking the former Secretary of State over her “homebrew” email server.’ ’In one of the most memorable lines from the first Democratic presidential debate last year he declared, “I think the American people are sick and tired of hearing about your damned emails. ”’ ’The Justice Department has been in possession of the server, which Clinton claims has been “wiped clean” of data since late last summer.’ ’Earlier this month FBI Director James Comey told the  that his agency was in no rush to wrap up its investigation before the Democratic National Convention in July.’ ’He added that he was following the case closely ”to make sure we have the resources to do it competently. ”’ ’”The urgency is to do it well and promptly,” Comey said. ”And ’’well’’ comes first. ”’ ’It would be easy for Sanders, trailing Clinton by several hundred pledged delegates and laying off hundreds of field staff after he lost four of the last five primaries, to reconsider his position and make political hay out the email server controversy.’ ’However, such a strategy could backfire badly on Sanders, who has vowed to continue campaigning through the last primary in California on June 7 and fight for a progressive platform at the convention in Philadelphia.’ ’If he goes after the former First Lady about her emails, he risks alienating Democratic leaders he will have to make deals with to ensure that his “political revolution” makes it into the party’s platform.’ ’Sanders had already spent $166 million by the end of March on his dark horse presidential bid, more than any other candidate in 2016, including Clinton, according to the.’ ’The terrific “burn rate” obscures the fact that Sanders has put together a vast fundraising network and an energized base of supporters. But that might not matter if he gets down in the dirt at such a late date in the primary calendar and starts throwing mud at Clinton about the emails.’ ’Contrary to what her husband thinks, Jane. ..’