’’ ’’ ’’ ’Nothing can quite prepare you for the arrival of your first child.’ ’You can read every ‘What to expect’ book available  —   I know I did. You can heed all the advice of friends who are parents, witness their chaos, and still never imagine how a baby will change it all, in the most beautiful, disorderly way possible.’ ’Before Caleb arrived, we managed our finances and household as a team. We were both working as travel journalists; Vaughan focusing on web development and photography while I did most of the writing plus a   job in Malaysia of training teachers in rural schools.’ ”I’m a business science marketing graduate, and Vaughan has a background in accounting, we’ve both experienced   office jobs and hope to never return to that life. Having your own business is exceptionally hard work and you can’t slow down for a second. We spend our evenings, weekends, and any free time working, but we wouldn’t change it for anything. We are own bosses, so we can decide what to spend our time on, do what we love, and design our own lifestyle.” ”In preparation for Caleb’s arrival, we saved, took on more paid writing assignments, and started a small digital agency which specializes in content management, web development, and social media management and consulting.” ’We chose to return home to Cape Town for his birth, even though Malaysia has   hospitals and gynecologists at a third of the price. ’ ’The first few months after Caleb was born were purely survival months, which our friend aptly dubbed ‘going underground.’ After moving back home, we initially lived with my parents. I’m pretty sure that if we didn’t live in their household during those initial weeks, we would have starved, never showered, and been snowed under in dirty laundry.’ ’Ask any parent of a newborn: Nothing else matters except feeding your baby, getting them to sleep, and keeping them alive. Besides, you don’t have time or energy for anything else.’ ’As freelancers, we didn’t have the luxury of taking time off or me taking maternity leave. I recall many a night breastfeeding and replying to emails with one hand or trying to get to article deadlines in the short times he would be napping.’ ’It really takes a strong partnership and village to raise a child, and I’m thrilled to have such a   husband in Vaughan. From day one he would be halving all duties with me, including an early morning expressed feed, nappies, putting him to sleep, and holding him during his colicky evenings. He is a such a great dad, and I’m not sure how moms do it without the kind of support I’ve found in him.’ ”Five months down the line, we still haven’t had to buy him any clothes ourselves. He still has drawers filled with clothing from my baby showers which will last him until 12 months of age. Because I’m breastfeeding, his costs are minimal barring nappies.” ’What we have needed money for is moving into an apartment. Even though we have been given so many appliances and bits of furniture, it has already turned out to cost so much.’ ’Living in Cape Town is much more expensive than Southeast Asia and while entrepreneurship is encouraged, it’s not nurtured or supported by financial institutions. The   and freelancers find it almost impossible to get a mortgage to buy their own homes and renting is costly.’ ’We left to travel the world two weeks after getting married, so now that we’re here to have Cape Town as a base we are finally able to dig into our wedding gifts for which we’re so grateful. We have savings, which we plan to keep and put down as a deposit when we purchase our own home one day.’ ’Having a baby means that our travel style and lifestyle will change. Slower travel, shorter journeys, and more comfort is what we’ll be looking for on the road. As for our finances, we now strive to get more retainer clients so we can rest assured that our rent and bills here in Cape Town are covered every month. Multiple income streams are fine before but you never know when they’re coming and in what amounts, so more stability is crucial now that we are a family of three.’ ’We feel excited and a little overwhelmed about the future, but overall we look forward to navigating this journey with a busy little boy in tow.’ ’Vaughan and Lauren Manuel McShane are the founders of  an   adventure travel blog. They’ve visited six continents, have lived in five different countries, and own  a digital agency which specializes in social media (management & training) content creation, blogging for business, content marketing and web development. Find them on  and .’ ’’