’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’According to CIDAC’’s report, the reforms have taken so long to implement because of a failure by the state and federal governments to coordinate across institutions. The report found that the government’’s implementation of the new system was ”uncoordinated,” ”carried out in isolation,” and plagued by a constant turnover of authority figures.’ ’The result, the report found, was that each of Mexico’’s states and its federal district conducted their own independent and disjointed ”processes of transformation,” often in a hurry and without implementing ”suitable rules” for the overhaul. These rushed, disparate efforts inevitably affected the success of the reforms, the report said.’ ’’ ”Viridiana Rios, a research fellow at the Washington,   think tank The Wilson Center, told Business Insider last fall that another reason the reforms are taking so long is the difficulty in helping Mexico’s lawyers adapt to oral arguments. Retraining an entire profession is no minor feat, and the lawyers are often reluctant to learn an entirely new method of arguing, she said.” ’”They want to read and write. They don’’t know how to argue,” she said. ”Find a lawyer that has never had an oral trial, that has never been trained since he was in law school to talk in public. Then tell him that he needs to talk in public and publicly make his arguments. They are not used to that. ”’ ’The US Agency for International Development (USAID) has put an effort into helping Mexico retrain its lawyers, Rios said, but the   or weeklong sessions offered are far from adequate  —   especially when law schools in the US typically take two or three years to properly train a lawyer.’ ’Further, these reforms have been lagging behind schedule for years, the report found. Mexico made its historic constitutional amendment to overhaul the legal system in 2008, in the hopes that oral arguments will help cases move more quickly. In the current system, the court backlogs are so daunting that cases are often prevented from going to trial, and police officers lack the capacity to investigate crimes thoroughly.’ ’Rios said that because of the court system being consistently bogged down with red tape, corrupt resolutions to unsolved cases are often far easier to implement than legitimate ones.’ ’”It’’s not that politics are inherently corrupt, or they’’d rather be corrupt than legitimate,” she said. ”It’’s just that being legal is such a hassle, or impossible. It’’s the only path sometimes. ”’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’For the last eight years, Mexico has been. ..’