If you are a close observer of The New York Times, as Alison Harvey is, you might have noticed a headline about Megyn Kelly, the Fox News anchor. It suggested that she had died, at age 45, leaving us without “America’s favorite news reporter. ” This wasn’t a news story written by a Times reporter. And it isn’t true: Kelly is alive and prosperous, exceptionally so. But it has appeared, with some regularity, on the Times website, as an advertisement pretending to be a news story. In other words, it’s fake news, or at least a version of it. Harvey, a Times reader from Reno, Nev. has been noticing the ad awhile now, and wrote me this week to complain. “This ad, or ‘clickbait,’ keeps popping up on various New York Times pages online,” she said. “This is unacceptable. Please stop these ads, which frankly make me feel like the NY Times is no better an outlet than the horrifying Facebook feeds with all of their fake news clickbait items. ” How could such fraudulent content wind up on the Times website? Through something called programmatic advertising, which essentially means that computers and algorithms conduct the transactions between advertisers and publishers rather than people. It’s machine to machine, like a stock market matching buyers with sellers. Both The Times’s newsroom and its advertising department have rules that forbid false, misleading or otherwise worrisome ads from appearing on the site. But it is difficult to apply those rules when computers are serving up the ads automatically, without a sales rep on the other end of the transaction screening out the misfits. Sebastian Tomich, a senior vice president in advertising, says The Times works aggressively to squash ads like the one that made the false Megyn Kelly claim. But the nature of the mechanized system means that most of the policing is done after the fact  —   once the ad has already appeared. Thus, the Kelly ad has now been reported and taken down. Tomich says another ad that fell into the same category was also removed recently. Tomich says The Times has one of the cleanest ad experiences in the publishing business. I agree. Relative to the size of the site and the volume of advertising, The Times doesn’t have many ads that tout the premature demise of newscasters or make false claims about   remedies. Still, when fraudulent ads do pop up they’re jarring, and that’s especially true now that the firing squads are out trying to punish those responsible for publishing “fake news” during the election. Facebook and Google are the prime targets, because critics say they recklessly let their platforms be used by the scammers who create fake news. Facebook’s Mark Zuckerberg, hoping to hose down the fire, says his company is taking steps to curtail the flow of fabricated content onto its users’ newsfeeds. In an editorial this week, The Times piled on, warning Facebook that its proposed changes don’t go far enough and warning of the danger that awaits if Zuckerberg “continues to let liars and con artists hijack his platform. ” As measured by sheer impact, there is no comparison between a handful of   ads on the Times website and an endless gush of fake news stories that get shared by millions on Facebook. One is a brook, the other is an ocean. But there are similarities too. Both organizations find themselves in the position of unwittingly publishing fake content that misleads and annoys readers, and that can diminish a brand.   ads like the Megyn Kelly one may not be rampant at The Times, but it’s still worth taking a good look at whether The Times is really doing everything it can to eliminate them. That’s particularly true at a moment when fake news is such a flash point, and when The Times is dispensing advice to another publisher on how to solve its problems.