’’ ”It’s all too common for veterans in the US to wind up in jail.” ”And behind bars, many of them don’t have access to the services they need to get their lives back on track.” ’That’’s what the participants on the A&E documentary series ”60 Days In” learned during their stay at Clark County Jail in southern Indiana.’ ’The show follows seven people who go  to expose problems within the system.’ ’One of the participants, Zac, estimated that 10% of the inmates he lived with were veterans, all of whom suffered from depression or   stress disorder. Like many   inmates, they often resorted to  to  .’ ”He said that most inmates weren’t aware the jail offered veterans advocacy services and an Alcoholics Anonymous support group  —   and that jail employees rarely advertised the fact that such programs existed.” ’”Regardless of whether or not they’’re in jail, they still took the same oath that they would protect the country with their life,” Zac told Business Insider. ”They still deserve to be treated for issues they developed because of that oath they took. ”’ ’Veterans in jail are more likely to suffer from   issues than other inmates, according to the  from the Bureau of Justice Statistics. Veterans are  than civilians to commit suicide.’ ’Zac himself is a veteran, having served as a combat engineer with the Marines in Afghanistan.’ ’When he returned home from deployment in 2010, he said, he refused to talk about his experience with friends and family. For a few months he found comfort in alcohol, consuming more than $1, 500 worth a month.’ ’Zac now advocates  a group that raises awareness of veteran suicide.’ ’Though Zac assumed a false identity for the show, he did incorporate details from his military background into his cover story.’ ’”It definitely gave me a degree of respect,” he told Business Insider. ”Their first thought was probably, ’’This guy probably knows how to fight. ’’ It helped keep me out of some situations. ”’ ’For part of his stay at Clark County Jail, Zac shared a cell with two other Marines. In one scene from the show, his cellmate offers Zac half of his meal, an almost   act of kindness in jail.’ ’”There was a level of camaraderie  —   we watched out for each other,” Zac said. ”The saying goes, ’’Once a Marine, always a Marine. ’’ We were in different theaters, different wars, but they’’re still Marines, and you watch out for them the same way you would anywhere else. ”’ ’The 11th episode of ”60 Days In” airs Thursday at 10 p. m. ET.’ ’’ ”It’s all too common for veterans in the US to. ..”