’’ ’Each year, The New York Times puts out a call for   essays to the newest class of applicants.’ ’This year,  which cut across issues of money, work, and social class. The Times published them on its site to showcase their raw and honest power.’ ’One of the essays comes from Erica Meister, a senior at Northville High School in Northville, Michigan. In it, she unsparingly critiques her hometown, recently awarded the title of ”. ”’ ’”We’’re from Northville,” she wrote of herself and fellow classmates. ”Most of us know nothing of consequences or responsibility for our actions, because our fathers can cover for us with cash and connections. ”’ ’These actions often include selling weed and Adderall, Meister mentions.’ ’’ ’’ ”Even The Times, which receives hundreds of   submissions every year, said that Meister’s piece was the most candid it has ever received.” ’”Every year, we receive at least one essay that picks apart an affluent suburb, but we’’ve never seen one quite as blunt as her take on Northville, Mich. ,” ’ ”But the essay also exposes Meister’s own instances of falling victim to thoughtlessness.” ”She describes asking a friend whose family she knew was struggling financially what AP exams she was planning to take. The exams, which students can voluntarily take and strengthen college applications,  Meister’s friend responded that she couldn’t afford any.” ’”I found myself victim to the disease that infiltrates Northville, the same carelessness I despise,” she wrote.’ ’Northville, Michigan, is a suburb of Detroit. The website RoadSnacks. net, which rated it the snobbiest city in Michigan, gave Northville the top rank because it ”combines unparalleled wealth (the highest median household income in Michigan) with expensive homes (second highest in Michigan) to create an enclave of snobbery. ”’ ’Indeed, the gulf between the income levels in Northville versus Detroit is stark. The median household income in Northville is $91, 270, . For Detroit, the figure is $26, 095.’ ”Meister, who will attend Stanford University in the fall, concluded her essay by noting that she’s eager to leave behind Northville and become more conscious and curious about life beyond her suburban bubble.” ”To be sure, the essay wasn’t the only arrow in her quiver.  when she scaled a   rock wall in 9. 56 seconds. She is also a member of the National Honor Society and maintained a 3. 9 GPA at Northville.” ”You can read Meister’s essay, .” ’Each year, The New York Times puts out a call. ..’