’’ ”Norwegian Air International’s expansion into the US has ruffled feathers. It’s a potentially   move that US airlines and unions have vigorously opposed. The US airlines are objecting on the grounds that NAI could exploit foreign labor laws, but in truth they should be worried about the kind of international network the carrier is attempting to create.” ”Last month, the  the Irish  —   yes, Irish  —   airline’s application to fly into the US.” ’You may be wondering why an airline called ”Norwegian” would be based in Ireland. That’’s the root of the issue.’ ’NAI is one of several subsidiaries operating under the Norwegian banner. Unlike the rest of the company, including Norwegian Air Shuttle, NAI is based in Dublin instead of in Norway.’ ’’ ’  Transportation president  referred to the DOT’’s decision as one to ”’ ’’ ’And all this complaining about NAI is happening even though it is tiny, with a fleet of just ’ ”Here’s the real problem for US airlines: Norwegian is going to expand rapidly and in a way that eats at the foundation of the   system major US airlines depend on for survival. How? By offering direct flights to smaller cities in the US from underserved cities in Northern Europe.” ’In practice, this means passengers in Hartford, Connecticut, or Providence, Rhode Island, no longer have to fly to Boston or New York for an international trip. Instead, for a far lower cost than a US carrier, they might fly NAI to Oslo, Norway; Stockholm; or Hamburg, Germany. Later this year, Norwegian is launching service to Paris from New York, Los Angeles, and Fort Lauderdale.’ ”This kind of setup not only undercuts US airlines’ international business; it could also threaten their domestic operation.” ’With its base in European   Ireland, NAI will also be able to use its hubs in Europe as transit points for passengers traveling into and out of Asia and Europe to the US. As a result, NAI will be able to tap into the lucrative    Asia market over which US, European, and Middle Eastern airlines have fought for the past decade.’ ’The presence of Norwegian and its   model could provide competitive pressure on legacy carriers for   travelers the same way Emirates, Etihad, and Qatar have for   clients.’ ”In fact, NAI could be the airline to disrupt the     business the same way other   carriers have transformed the European airline industry. In Norwegian’s home market, it has forced its local rival SAS to revamp the way the    airline does business.” ’”We have made significant transformative changes to stay competitive and to survive,”  in March. ”We have cut overhead costs, adjusted pensions and union contracts. ”’ ”NAI’s weapon in all this will be   jets like the Boeing 737 Max 8 and the Airbus A320neo. The company has orders for as many as 350 of these aircraft in place.” ’While   service has traditionally been operated using large   jumbo jets, the   jets are cheaper to buy and cheaper to operate. The first of the 737 Max aircraft are expected to enter service in 2017, while Norwegian is expected to see its first A320neos later this year.’ ”Norwegian won’t be able to reach the US legacy carriers’    customer: the   business traveler. Major US airlines depend these   clients, who fly often and pay   or   prices, to generate the revenue they need to stay afloat.” ”Norwegian’s   premium cabin on its Dreamliners may attract some of these customers, but it is unlikely to sway   corporate clients.” ’But based on how Norwegian has shaken up the airline industry in its homeland, US carriers should be wary of the disruptive power of this airline.’ ”One final detail: According to Norwegian’s CEO, the target price for admission to one of his airline’s flight across the Atlantic is $69.” ”Norwegian Air International’s expansion into. ..”