’’ ’Subscription models are incredibly popular.’ ’Look no further than Netflix, Amazon Prime, Dollar Shave Club, and Carnivore Club. It seems easy; sign up, and you have a product each month for a fixed price.’ ’But at the same time, many   retailers are being accused of not having clear disclosures about their billing practices.’ ’And some companies, despite seemingly being transparent about the fact that they are   make canceling their memberships difficult for customers.’ ’’ ’Adore Me lets customers skip billing cycles, but they have to make sure they select to ”shop” or ”skip” by the fifth of each month. Members who don’’t make a selection will see their credit cards get charged; in turn they get store credit to use at any time.’ ”Adore Me has added a policy in which members can get an automatic refund for the most recent month’s charges  —   without having to go through customer service  —   if they fail to select shop or skip. Adore Me CEO Morgan   highlighted this policy to Business Insider in January.” ’The policy, however, could be hurting the company. ’ ’Upon cancellation, which, according to reviews on the Better Business Bureau, is an arduous process, members lose their credits. (’ ’’ ”Truth in Advertising’s complaint comes on the heels of many consumers’ frustrations; Adore Me has an F rating with the  and more than 680 consumer complaints.” ”Some members don’t even know they’re becoming VIP Members from the start. ” ’’ ’  maintains that the retailer is transparent and discloses everything through consistent emails, SMS messages, push notifications, and a pamphlet that members receive with their first package. He stressed this to Business Insider in January.’ ’’ ’’ ’In late October,  reported that the company would be audited. Bloomberg also reported that ; it was going to consider offering members the ability to unsubscribe online. Not being able to cancel memberships online was a huge issue with the company that  outlined in an initial report regarding the scandal.’ ”Still, some experts think that JustFab uses this model to optimize success, even if it’s misleading.” ’”I’ ’’ ”That’s not to say subscriptions are entirely faulty.” ’At the end of 2013,  suggested that the   model was a hot   trend for the following year.’ ’And there has been  of  for consumers to choose from  —   whether grooming and beauty boxes or boxes with artisanal beer or boxes for dogs.’