’Donald Trump on Tuesday said he filed a new   form with the Federal Election Commission that detailed a net worth of more than $10 billion.’ ’Trump called the filing ”the largest in the history of the FEC. ”’ ’”I filed my PFD, which I am proud to say is the largest in the history of the FEC,” Trump said in the statement. ”Despite the fact that I am allowed extensions, I have again filed my report, which is 104 pages, on time. ”’ ’He then criticized Democratic presidential hopeful Bernie Sanders for being late to file his disclosure.’ ’”Bernie Sanders has requested, on the other hand, an extension for his small report,” Trump said in the statement. ”This is the difference between a businessman and the all talk, no action politicians that have failed the American people for far too long. ”’ ’He continued: ”I have built an incredible company and have accumulated one of the greatest portfolios of real estate assets, many of which are considered to be among the finest and most iconic properties in the world. This is the kind of thinking the country needs. ”’ ’Trump, now the presumptive Republican nominee for president, is also facing  from both sides of the political aisle about declining, so far, to release his tax returns. Critics have said Trump has inflated his net worth on the   forms and that the tax returns would provide a more accurate depiction of his finances.’ ’The campaign statement went on to boast about Trump’’s ”tremendous” cash flow and ”a revenue increase of approximately $190 million dollars. ”’ ’Trump has not been shy about discussing his wealth.’ ’When he  after declaring his candidacy for the Republican presidential nomination, his campaign said Trump’’s personal fortune was so ”massive” that it couldn’’t be properly detailed on the FEC forms.’ ’”This report was not designed for a man of Mr. Trump’’s massive wealth,” the campaign statement said of the FEC forms. ”For instance, they have boxes once a certain number is reached that simply state $50 million or more. Many of these boxes have been checked. As an example, if a building owned by Mr. Trump is worth $1. 5 billion, the box checked is ’’$50, 000, 000 or more. ’’”’ ’Donald Trump on Tuesday said he filed a new. ..’