’The Federal Reserve has come back to life.’ ’On Wednesday, it signaled to markets that the second   hike of this economic cycle could come as early as June.’ ’And for the first time in a while, markets took the Fed very seriously. ’ ”It’s not so much that markets believe the Fed’s specific timing, but that they are suddenly taking its intentions much more seriously.” ’ of the the Federal Open Markets Committee (FOMC) meeting said Wednesday, ’ ’The explicit reference to June caused a swift reaction across markets: Stocks fell, treasury yields spiked, the dollar gained, and expectations in the Fed Fund Futures market shot up.’ ”The Fed finally regained some control by reminding markets that it’s focused on progress on its dual mandate of full employment and price stability.” ’”It was just the overall discussion about how the economy seems to be on the right path,” Omar Aguilar, chief investment officer for equities at Charles Schwab Investment Management, told Business Insider.’ ’”The only reason why the Fed lowered the expectations earlier in the year was really as a result of market volatility and less about the strength of the economy. ”’ ”In other words, the Fed managed to shift markets’ attention to the reality of a tightening labor market and slowly rising inflation  —   in part due to recovering commodity prices.” ”In March, the FOMC said global markets continued to  to the US economy, and implicitly, to the Fed’s ability to continue raising interest rates. ” ”In April, the . But of course, that’s not to say the Fed’s   third mandate  —   of market stability  —   doesn’t count.” ’”If we see a significant deterioration of global equity markets or commodities, that would potentially give them a pause,” Aguilar said. ’ ’’ ’Bank of America Merrill Lynch summed up how markets and the Fed have apparently led each other:’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’But the question remains: Who is listening to whom?’ ’”We have long argued that what matters for the USD is what the Fed is saying rather than what the Fed fund futures market is saying,” wrote Daragh Maher, a currency strategist at HSBC, in a note Thursday. The Fed could continue to nudge rate expectations higher in the coming weeks, he said. ’ ’Maher expects the dollar to continue to rally, even as the Fed keeps its options open for a June or July rate hike.’ ’For some analysts, the dollar is the biggest market consideration, as it became the major channel of monetary policy, and rallied sharply between 2013 and 2015 on hawkish expectations. ’ ”But returning to BAML’s analysis, when there was no clear impact of US economic data, China, oil, and the Fed, there was no clear effect on stocks either.  ” ’”Maybe, just maybe, the   about the Fed is overdone?” Harris asked. ’ ’”Maybe continued calm in China and in the oil market mean a continued   trade in capital markets? And maybe the world does not fold over every time the Fed sneezes? ”’ ’The Federal Reserve has come back to life. ..’