’’ ”Two Syrian Kurds were shot dead by a former member of the Free Syrian Army (FSA) earlier this month, in what the executioner said was a response to  in which the Kurdish People’s Protection Units (YPG) killed around 50 FSA fighters  back to Kurdish territory in an   trailer.” ’ as images of both incidents  —   which could not be independently verified  —   circulated on social media until the   rebel group ’ ’’ ’The incident is symbolic, however, of the mutual distrust that continues to cast a shadow over the   relationship in northern Syria, even as t’ ’That fragile partnership was tested again on Saturday, when  The visit reportedly prompted fury from Syrian Arab rebels, who feel   in the SDF.’ ’’ ’’ ’ last week.’ ’’ ”Kurdish and Arab fighters have a long history of mutual distrust that peaked between 2012 and 2013, when the Kurdish People’s Protection Units (YPG) battled   rebel groups for control over the Syrian city of Ras  .” ”Those tensions have reemerged over the past eight months. The   neighborhood of Sheikh Maqsood has come under siege by both Syrian government forces and the rebels, with reports emerging that the rebels have committed war crimes against the neighborhood’s Kurds.” ’’ ’The rivalry has put the US in a difficult position. The YPG has proven to be the most effective force fighting ISIS on the ground in northern Syria, but the territorial expansion their victories have afforded them is vehemently opposed by Turkey, an important US ally and member of NATO.’ ”Ankara views Kurdish demands for autonomy as a threat to Turkey’s sovereignty. It backs many of the rebel groups that have clashed with the YPG.” ”Complicating the situation further is the High Negotiations Committee’s (HNC)  that it should be the only opposition group represented at peace talks in Geneva, where multiple attempts to forge a political solution to the more than   war have failed. The HNC is a ” ’Turkey has also objected, citing the Kurdish insurgency it is battling in its southeast.’ ”The   Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) were supposed to alleviate Turkey’s anxiety by incorporating some Arab and Turkmen groups to offset Kurdish influence. But the SDF was established by members of Euphrates Volcano  —   a coalition that included certain FSA factions but was dominated by the Kurdish YPG  —   and has since clashed with the FSA’s 13th division near the .” ’’ ’Not everyone would agree that the US’’s support for the YPG is ”unconditional.” And the case could be made that the US decision to gamble its relationship with Turkey  —   which has been  illicit activities  —   in favor of a closer relationship with the fiercely   YPG was a strategic move.’ ’’ ’As’ ’’ ’’ ’Two Syrian Kurds were shot dead by a former. ..’