I’ll never forget the impact of my first dance shoes. We didn’t have a lot of money, especially when I was in elementary school. So I got “imitation” shoes they weren’t Converse  —   they were “ . ” Kids would pick on you because you didn’t have trendy   shoes and that was a source of anxiety to me. But when I was 12 my mother took me to the Star Styled store in Miami to buy me genuine   tap shoes, ballet slippers and jazz oxfords. She made it a priority, as I had to have all of these types of shoes before my first classes started. It was such a big deal when I got those shoes that I would even sleep with them. Just by putting them on, I had the keys to what I was hoping to become. In the back room of our house, I would imitate photographs of dancers from the magazines my teacher had given me. All of a sudden, I was connected to a magical world. The power of those shoes as something tangible, and as a metaphor, was enormous for me. Anything I learned, I would try to teach to the neighborhood kids. Soon I would cast them in dance videos with my front porch as the stage. I choreographed to the song “Word Up!” by Cameo, and persuaded a group of my fellow students to participate, including football players. We performed the routine for no one, because we were all in it. But it sparked my desire to create dance, not just to perform it. Growing up in the Liberty City neighborhood of Miami had its rough edges. Two blocks away, there were drug deals and shootings, which I saw walking to and from school. Pretty much everyone I knew had security bars on their windows. I would use the ones on the inside of my front porch as a ballet barre. It was a challenge being a kid who played classical piano, danced and sang soprano in the choir. Sometimes I was threatened, so I started carrying a hammer in my dance bag for protection. I carried myself differently, and people left me alone. The first time I saw Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, classes from our school were bused to a special performance for students at Jackie Gleason Theater in Miami Beach. The dancers were in some ways a reflection of me they looked like me, but more than that they looked like what I wanted to become. The highlight of the performance was “Revelations,” Ailey’s masterpiece, created in 1960 at the cusp of the civil rights movement. It’s not just a dance, but a suite of spirituals relating to the black experience in this country and expressing the trials, tribulations, faith and hope to which everyone can relate. As a boy who grew up in the church, I felt connected to it in a very personal way. One section that really resonated with me was “Wade in the Water,” a depiction of a baptism. Across the stage, fabric billowed, representing the water, and dancers stepped forward and back with equal parts fear and joy. That’s what I felt being baptized in my own church. “Revelations” was my story as much as it was Ailey’s blood memories. It felt very much like the life I already knew. So I could walk into a positive image that was much more powerful than all of the negatives I had ever seen, combined. Images were important to me. I would cut out pictures from dance magazines  —   Anna Pavlova, Judith Jamison  —   and paste them on big square pieces of wood. In my dark room at night I would slowly shine a flashlight over them, intrigued by the contrast, which is in some ways a metaphor for life. Even in a dark space, a dark time, with your imagination and your ability to see beyond your circumstance, there is always light. That vision board was a powerful exercise for me. But termites eventually got to the wood, and I had to throw it away. My imagination was my passport to the world. We had a lot of trees in the yard in Florida, but the mango tree was the biggest, with a place that I could perch. There was something about being high above the ground that elevated me beyond place, time and circumstance. I would envision what it would be like to perform in front of thousands in New York City and walk through Times Square. I would envision the audience’s faces, what they were wearing, even how they got to the theater. I felt the same adrenaline rush as if I were actually performing. I’m convinced that exercise moved me closer to my destiny. Eventually I auditioned for Juilliard and was fortunate to be accepted on full scholarship. There I was, in New York, just a few blocks away from the Ailey company, which at the time was on West 61st Street. Visiting the studios, I could peer through the windows, catch the occasional sighting of the legendary Judith Jamison, who was then artistic director. Years later, when she grabbed my hands, looked into my eyes and asked me to lead the company  —   “It’s yours,” she said  —   everything that I visualized while studying those images of her came flooding back. Even to this day, when someone says, “Please welcome the artistic director of Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, Robert Battle,” there’s something in me that is reduced to that young person in the mango tree. I always tell young people, ‘It costs you nothing to use your imagination, but it will cost you everything if you don’t use it.’ When I think back to that moment of putting on my first dance shoes, I know now that it was about unlocking the mystery of my imagination. Putting on those shoes allowed me to walk into this magnificent world of dance, and, step after step, it continues to be  .