’’ ’Apple CEO Tim Cook just gave his most detailed commentary yet on the effect the high price of the iPhone has on . In  Cook was asked a tough question about whether the iPhone  —   which costs about $600 in the US but is   —   was really worth its price.’ ’ in the most recent quarter, and the . Analysts believe iPhone sales will continue to decline all through this year.’ ’Cook replied that he did think the iPhone might be priced too high in India, and he said the company would consider lowering the price: ”I recognise that prices are high. We want to do things that lower that over time to the degree that we can. ”’ ’That is a significant acknowledgement.’ ”Apple’s mantra has been that the company makes the best products and doesn’t want to compete on price. That is how Apple maintains its enormous profit margins. So any notion that Cook may try other strategies that include lowered prices, especially in a market the size of India, would be important.” ”Previously,  back in January, that the high price of the iPhone was hurting the device’s sales.” ”While the US price of the iPhone is about $600, currency fluctuations and local taxes increase the price to the equivalent of $931 in Brazil, $784 in India, and $671 in the UK. That makes the iPhone leagues more expensive than Android models whose functionality is similar to that of the iPhone. Here’s a comparison chart from Deutsche Bank:” ’’ ”Chandra’s question really summed up Apple’s problem in a nutshell. Not only is the price high, but a lot of Apple services  —   like iBooks  —   don’t actually work in India. That makes the iPhone look like a bad deal. Here’s the crucial part of the NDTV interview:” ’Cook later went on to repeat Apple’’s historical position, which is: ”We’’re only going to make a product that we think is a great product. And that means we are not going to compete in some of the other price bands.” But then he went back and repeated his statement that iPhone prices could come down:’ ’That statement would suggest that Cook wants to see a 24% cut to the average price of the iPhone in India.’ ”Clearly, none of this is a   guarantee that Apple will start competing on price. Cook was playing to an Indian audience, which doesn’t want to hear why it’s OK that Indians pay a 31% premium for their phones compared with Americans.”