’’ ’Mark Zuckerberg says that he believes in freedom of expression.’ ”To prove it, he should ask Peter Thiel, who funded a legal campaign designed to drive Gawker Media out of business, to step down from Facebook’s board of directors.” ’Earlier this month, an anonymous former Facebook employee accused Facebook of showing liberal bias in the story selection for its Trending news box.’ ’The employee, a former journalist, told  that stories about Mitt Romney, Rand Paul, and other conservative interests were kept out of that box, even though they were organically trending with readers.’ ”Conservatives began to rumble about discrimination. It seemed a little disproportionate, as that Trending news box is in a tiny corner of the site  —   this wasn’t about the News Feed that most Facebook users spend most of their time with.” ’But Facebook reacted quickly and aggressively.’ ’It showed the world  that its human news curators were supposed to follow as they chose the stories to appear in that tiny box. It held a  during which they were encouraged to air their grievances. Glenn Beck, who attended, later  some at the meeting for acting as if they wanted ”affirmative action for conservatives. ”’ ”Zuckerberg, Facebook’s CEO, defended the company in a Facebook post:” ”It’s not the first time Zuckerberg has defended freedom of expression. After terrorists attacked the offices of France’s Charlie Hebdo magazine for publishing parody cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad, Zuckerberg :” ”Thiel, the billionaire PayPal cofounder,  he had spent about $10 million funding various legal campaigns against the media organization Gawker, including one brought by former pro wrestler Hulk Hogan. Hogan was upset because Gawker published footage from a video tape of his having sex with a friend’s  .” ”Thiel acknowledged this only after Forbes  even though Gawker founder Nick Denton  —   and others  —   had been speculating about Thiel’s involvement for some time.” ’Thiel was partly upset about a 2007 article in Valleywag, a Gawker publication, about his being gay  —   the first article about his sexuality. He told  that similar articles about his friends and others that ”ruined lives for no reason” inspired the suit.’ ”Gawker, in its  on Thursday, also suggested that Thiel was upset about Valleywag’s general attitude toward Silicon Valley and innovation, which skewed toward criticism  —   or at least skepticism  —   rather than cheerleading.” ”Whatever the reason, Thiel did what he did, and now Gawker is facing a  for violating Hogan’s privacy.” ”Thiel wasn’t doing anything illegal. The law in the US is very favorable toward free speech, no matter who’s funding that speech or how much money they’re spending.” ’Gawker has written a lot of nasty, personal stories about people over the years. Denton  in an open letter to Thiel that the publication had sometimes ”overstepped the line” and swung into ”snark.” The courts are hearing numerous cases against Gawker, and it might lose one or more of them on appeal.’ ’But spending years looking for people who have potential grievances against a publication, then secretly funding their lawsuits, is not consistent with the principles of free expression.’ ”Either you’re for free expression, or you’re kind of for it. And if you’re kind of for it, then you’re not really for it at all.” ”Zuckerberg says he’s for it. Now’s the time to prove it.” ’Mark Zuckerberg says that he believes in. ..’