’’ ’Disgruntled Icelanders recently  and are threatening to hand power to  at an early election.’ ’But whereas other European voters are culling traditional parties out of weakness, Reykjavik’s are rebelling out of strength.’ ’In contrast to eurozone countries (core as well as periphery) that remain deeply constrained by excessive external debt, Iceland has just  by a cool US$61 billion, returning them to the safe 2006 level.’ ’The country that suffered proportionally the world’s biggest  is now set to boom again as it diversifies from fish, tourism and aluminium into .’ ’Its GDP, already among the highest in the world per capita, is back above the   level and set to rise (on central bank forecasts) by   —   twice the eurozone and UK rates.’ ’Although its overgrown banks were one of the causes of the global financial crisis, Iceland responded to their meltdown in the opposite way from the rest of Europe  —   and against the received wisdom of most economists. It allowed its currency to fall in value  —   an option unavailable to eurozone members, which had to ratchet down wages and prices through “internal devaluation”.’ ’It nationalised the big banks that had run up unsustainable debt, rescuing only . It  so that the banks’ creditors and other foreign investors couldn’t withdraw their money. Locals, including pension funds, couldn’t invest abroad.’ ’The central bank also tightened monetary policy. Its policy rate peaked at 18% in 2009, and was still at 5. 75% this month. In the UK, eurozone and the US, central banks pushed their rates to   and applied quantitative easing. Defying the austerity that prevailed across Europe, Iceland then allowed fiscal policy to take the economic and social strain. In particular, public money was used to  that would otherwise stop any spending recovery.’ ’Economist Paul Krugman, perhaps shielded from the orthodoxy by a Nobel prize, has repeatedly drawn attention to the way these policies allowed   Iceland to recover   —   even Ireland, the poster child for conventional “adjustment policies”.’ ’Until now, critics had one powerful riposte to this improbable ray of Nordic sunshine. They said it was a false dawn. They argued that the whole recovery was only achieved on the back of draconian capital controls, in place since November 2008. Removing them would be painful, but failing to lift them promptly would have equally dire consequences.’ ’Foreign investors would despair of getting their trapped cash back  —   making it impossible for Icelanders to borrow again even for . The critics said that domestic investors’ savings would, with nowhere else to go, turn the already strong tourism and stock market investment booms into overheated bubbles whose ’ ’Emerging from capital controls is notoriously tricky, especially when they’ve been in place for eight years and when it’s a small, open economy with a narrow productive base of mainly   and  . And so the pessimists have tended to hint that when the controls lift, the whole .’ ’In this nightmare exit scenario, Iceland’s currency (the kronur) will plunge as foreign funds flee, never to return. Interest rates will rise even higher to rescue the exchange rate,   investment, without stopping the runaway inflation sparked by imports getting more expensive. The weaker kronur will leave the country struggling to service its remaining foreign debt, despite its recent reduction.’ ’In practice, Iceland has regained economic strength inside its gilded cage  —   to the extent that it can now step outside, melt it down and resell the gold. The current account surpluses permitted by the devaluation, and the nationalised bank assets that regained value after the economy’s return to growth, have enabled the repayment of so much foreign debt that the rest will be manageable, even if the currency sinks when controls go.’ ’It’s a stark contrast to the eurozone and especially Greece, which had to ask its creditors for debt relief that will .’ ’The chances of a kronur crash have diminished because the  (foreign transactions bring in more money than they take out) and because foreign investors are again being attracted to Iceland. They like its high interest rates, growth prospects and investment opportunities. Icelandic households and businesses can live with higher borrowing costs because they’ve paid down their debts, while incomes .’ ’Although a remote island with a population of 300, 000 and  could be dismissed as a special case, Iceland’s remarkable renaissance make its remedies a serious challenge to the orthodoxy. Krugman is not the only one to find . The IMF, which used to insist on free capital movement as precondition for assistance and recovery, has published research which assigns capital controls a valuable role in maintaining stability in a world of .’ ’The sting in this unlikely tale turns out to be political, not financial. The recovery was laid out by the Social Democrats and Green Party in Iceland in a   coalition, and taken towards completion by a coalition of the Independence Party and Progressives.’ ’However, Icelandic voters appear to have rounded on all the political groups that used to serve as government and opposition. The Pirates  —    as a campaign for more democracy and freedom of information  —   have led recent opinion polls with a commanding 40% and are well placed to lead any government formed after early elections this autumn.’ ’  orthodoxy could still return  —   in the form of David Oddsson, who (as finance minister, prime minister and central bank governor) was an architect of the financial liberalisation that preceded the 2008 crash, and who has .’ ’But if normal politics is restored, it’s only because highly abnormal economics made good the elites’ past mistakes.’ ’’ ’This article was originally published on . Read the .’ ’Disgruntled Icelanders recently forced their. ..’