’’ ”DALLAS (AP)  —   New Orleans Pelicans guard Bryce   was fatally shot on his daughter’s first birthday after kicking down the door of what he mistakenly thought was his girlfriend’s apartment in Dallas, a death that rattled the NBA over Memorial Day weekend.” ’”We are devastated at the loss of this young man’’s life,” the Pelicans said Saturday in a statement.’ ”Dallas police said Sunday they would not have more information about the shooting until after the holiday and did not answer The Associated Press’ question regarding whether the man who shot the      would face charges. It is legal in Texas for people to use deadly force to protect themselves from intruders.” ”  was visiting his girlfriend for his daughter’s first birthday and had gone for a walk early Saturday, according to his agent, Scott W. Nichols. His girlfriend lives on the fourth floor, and   who was visiting the complex for the first time, went to the third.” ’A man living at the apartment was sleeping when he heard his front door kicked open, police Senior Cpl. DeMarquis Black said Saturday in a statement. When   began kicking at the bedroom door, the man retrieved a handgun and fired.   collapsed in an outdoor passageway, and he died at a hospital.’ ’ ’’s father told   that his son was ”tenacious. ”’ ’”He has had so many things that have happened to him along his path,” K. C. Jones told the station. ”He made up his mind that he wanted to do what he was doing  —   play pro ball. And whatever it took, he was going to get there. He was going to do it. ”’ ”In  ’ only NBA season, which ended in February because of a broken right wrist, the    guard started 11 of 14 games and averaged 5. 6 points and 3. 4 rebounds.” ’Nichols said   had nearly completed his rehab and was set to begin shooting with his right hand again next week.’ ’”It’’s shocking this happened,” Nichols said. ”Wrong place, wrong time, I think. ”’ ’NBA Commissioner Adam Silver called it a ”tragic loss” and said   ”had a bright future in our league. ”’ ’  was signed by the Pelicans last summer after not being selected in the 2015 draft.’ ’”I just lost my best   last night enjoy life because you never know if tomorrow is guaranteed,” Shabazz Muhammad of the Minnesota Timberwolves wrote on Twitter.’ ’  was part of the   Iowa State team that went   captured a Big 12 title and made a fourth consecutive trip to the NCAA Tournament. He also played at Southern California and UNLV; he was suspended late in the   season from UNLV for conduct detrimental to the team, and announced that he was leaving USC midway through the   season.’