’’ ’An agreement between Verizon and unions potentially ending a nearly   strike includes 1, 400 new jobs and pay raises topping 10% the company and unions representing about 40, 000 workers said on Monday.’ ’The deal, which one analyst called ”very rich” for Verizon workers, could be a prelude to the company exiting the wireline telecommunications business, transforming into a   business.’ ’Verizon, the No. 1 US wireless provider, and the Communications Workers of America had reached a tentative deal on Friday. Details for the new   contract were disclosed Monday.’ ’The CWA said Verizon agreed to provide a 10. 9% raise over four years, while Verizon put the increase at 10. 5%. According to the CWA, both numbers are correct, with the calculation done by the union including compounded interest that workers would receive as subsequent raises are determined from a new base salary. ’ ’”They needed to end the strike, and they bit the bullet,” Roger Entner of Recon Analytics said. ”In my opinion, it reinforced their commitment to basically exiting the least profitable, most problematic part of the business. ”’ ’The new contract ”gives Verizon four years basically to get rid of the unit,” Entner said. ”Let it be somebody else’’s problem,” he continued.’ ”Nearly 40, 000 network technicians and   representatives of the company’s Fios internet, telephone, and television services units walked off the job on April 13. ” ’Striking workers will be back on the job Wednesday, the CWA said. ’ ’’ ’The workers have been without a contract since the agreement expired in August, and healthcare coverage ran out at the end of April. Verizon workers went on strike for two weeks in 2011 after negotiations were deadlocked.’ ’The latest work stoppage stretched across states including New York, Massachusetts, and Virginia. Verizon brought in thousands of temporary workers. ’ ’The New   Verizon will add 1, 300   jobs on the East Coast and 100 new   jobs, Verizon spokesman Richard Young said. ’ ’It will withdraw proposed cuts to pensions as well as reductions in accident and disability benefits. The company, however, won cost savings through changes in healthcare plans and limits on postretirement health benefits.’ ’If union members ratify the agreement, the new contract will run until August 2019. ’ ’Members of local unions will vote on the agreement by mail, at mass membership meetings, and at   balloting meetings, and all results are due back to the CWA by June 17, according to Bob Master, assistant to the vice president at the CWA. ’ ’Master said, ”We’’re pretty confident the members will be supportive of the agreement,” citing the closeness between the leadership and its members. ’ ’Verizon worker Fitzgerald Boyce, 45, said he was likely to vote in favor. ’ ’”Of course I am extremely relieved that we have a good contract from what I am reading,” said Boyce, a field technician who lives in Brooklyn, New York. ”To be able to keep our benefits and actually increase the number of union jobs is a great thing.” ’ ’Verizon and the two striking unions were in contract discussions with the help of the US Department of Labor. In   US Labor Secretary Thomas Perez brought the parties back to the negotiating table.’ ’The strike, one of the largest in recent years in the US, drew support from Democratic US presidential candidates Bernie Sanders and Hillary Clinton.’ ’’ ’Verizon has shifted its focus in recent years to mobile video and advertising while scaling back its Fios television and internet services. To tap new revenue, it is boosting its   internet business and acquired AOL for $4. 4 billion.’ ’Verizon, which claims a   cell network, is locked in a battle for subscribers with its competitors AT&T, Sprint, and   in a saturated US wireless market. ’ ”Verizon’s legacy wireline business generated about 29% of company revenue in 2015, down about 60% since 2000 and less than 7% of operating income. ” ’Verizon CEO Lowell McAdam said last week that the strike could hurt   results.’ ’Verizon shares closed up 1% at $50. 62 on Friday and are up 9. 5% for the year, near its   high of $54. 49. US markets were closed Monday for the US Memorial Day holiday.’ ’(Reporting by Amrutha Gayathri in Bengaluru, Daniel Trotta and Chuck Mikolajczak in New York; Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe and Nick Zieminski)’ ’An agreement between Verizon and unions. ..’