’Two male adults are dead after an apparent   on the University of California at Los Angeles campus, the chief of the Los Angeles Police Department confirmed on Wednesday.’ ”The victims were found in an office inside UCLA’s Engineering IV building, where the shooting took place.” ’LAPD chief Charlie Beck said that ”at about 10 this morning a homicide and a suicide occurred at the engineering building on the south side. It appears it is entirely contained. We believe there are no suspects outstanding and no continuing threat to UCLA’’s campus. ”’ ’Los Angeles City Councilman Paul Koretz  KFI radio reporter Eric Leonard that one of the victims was a professor. Local TV station KABC confirmed that the professor is  who taught mechanical and aerospace engineering at the school.’ ’CBS News affiliate KNX  who said the shooting may have stemmed from an issue concerning grades.’ ’Authorities arrived at about 9:55 a. m. local time amid reports of a shooter on campus. The campus was on lockdown as police searched buildings, Beck said.’ ’’ ’The FBI and the US Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (ATF) were at the scene, along with ”literally hundreds” of other police and fire personnel, according to UCLA’’s police chief.’ ”During an afternoon press conference, Scott Waugh, UCLA’s executive vice chancellor and provost, said that classes are expected to resume campuswide on Thursday, except for inside the school’s Engineering IV building, where the shooting happened.” ’’ ’Waugh said that authorities will be ”reviewing the locks on the doors among other measures . .. to ensure our campus is as safe as possible,” referencing the  in order to secure the doors while the campus was on lockdown.’ ’’ ’Photos on social media showed people  to secure classroom doors that reportedly were not equipped with locks.’ ’”On any given day, there are between 60 and 70, 000 people on campus,” Waugh said, citing the need to assess the school’’s overall safety measures.’ ’Two male adults are dead after an. ..’