’’ ”The tide of the housing market may be starting to turn for the better, but only if you don’t own the dwelling you’re living in.” ”We’ve noted for some time that   housing is  leading to higher and higher prices. The tide may be turning in the opposite direction, however, for multifamily housing like apartment buildings.” ’On Wednesday, news came out that Equity Residential, a large builder of apartments in major metros, was  for revenue because of sliding rents in both New York City and San Francisco.’ ’Equity cited too much supply as the primary reason for the weakness.’ ’”While occupancies and renewal rates in these markets continue to perform in line with the company’’s expectations, new lease rates are not meeting original projections due to new rental apartment supply,” the firm said in a statement.’ ”This comes after the luxury homebuilder Toll Brothers cited weakness in the New York housing market and the National Association of Homebuilders’ Housing Market Index fell . Out West, San Francisco rents fell for .” ’While New York City and San Francisco have been leading the way in terms of the buildup, this drop may be a harbinger for the rest of the country. Construction of new apartments  at the same time that demand may finally be tempering.’ ’While   homebuilding has been neglected during the economic recovery, buildings with five or more units have exploded over that time. In fact, multifamily housing starts are growing at a pace not seen since 1989.’ ’’ ’The oversupply appears to finally be catching up to builders and renters alike. In May we highlighted commentary from Brett Ryan and Aditya Bhave at Deutsche Bank  was beginning to slow.’ ’”As more supply has come on line, effective rent growth, shown in the second chart, has recently begun to decline,” the analysts wrote in May. ”Hence, the additional supply of housing stock is beginning to alleviate some of the upward pressure on rents. ”’ ’Additionally, Michelle Meyer at Bank of America Merrill Lynch recently revised down projected multifamily housing starts for the year, citing the oversupply.’ ”Meyer’s colleague at BAML, Ethan Harris, pointed out in a recent note to clients that the share of overall starts that are multifamily was the highest in decades.” ’”Multifamily starts have averaged more than 30% of total starts over this recovery, which is particularly high relative to the last decade, but is modestly below the average from the ” Harris wrote.’ ’’ ’There is also reason to believe that millennials, long thought to eschew traditional housing, are beginning to shift away from apartments. Numerous surveys of young people have showed that  they want to eventually .’ ’These intentions may finally be showing up, as   sales hit their highest level since the recession in May and the  a home in the next six months is well above its   average.’ ’Thus as the labor market tightens and wages improve, young people are  from apartments. In fact, as Ryan and Bhave noted, apartment vacancy rates have ticked up in the past few quarters after falling for three years in a row.’ ’So while there has been nothing but tough news for new homebuyers, those who are sticking to renting may be finally getting some relief.’ ’The tide of the housing market may be starting. ..’