’  ’ ”   Amazon and Apple are feuding over online video: Amazon doesn’t   sell the Apple TV on its site, and owners of the Apple TV device   can’t get the Amazon Prime Video streaming app. ” ’   Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos  earlier this month: ’ ’   Well, Apple    so now it’’s up to Amazon to   decide if they’’re ”acceptable.” ’ ’   On Wednesday, Apple announced that it will take a smaller share   of money from app developers who sell subscriptions through Apple   apps. ’ ’’ ”   Previously, Apple took a 30% cut of any transaction initiated   through an Apple app, including monthly fees. That’s a big issue   for TV services like HBO Now, which would see a substantial   proportion of its revenue go to Apple while it provides an     often expensive   service. ” ”   That’s why if you sign up for Spotify from an iPhone, it will   charge you more than if you sign up from a browser. ” ”   Now, Apple is letting developers keep 85% of revenue if their   customers continue to subscribe to a service for longer than a   year. After 12 months, Apple’s cut is effectively halved. ” ’   This change has less to do with iPhone apps than it does with new     services on Apple TV. ’ ’   In fact, Apple has already quietly been offering TV partners a   deal with a 15% cut for most of the past year. : ’ ’   As of now, most of the apps on Apple TV stream video only to   people who have pay TV subscriptions, such as DirecTV or cable. ’ ”   But this tweak means that a channel that wants to provide a paid   experience that you can sign up for on Apple TV will be able to   keep more money from those subscriptions than they used to     possibly encouraging them to take a second look at signing up new   customers through Apple’s   box. ” ’   Whether Bezos finds these new terms to be more ”acceptable”   remains to be seen. Bezos may not want to send any revenue from   Amazon’’s Prime subscription to Apple, but the change might be   enough to bring him back to the table. ’ ’Amazon and Apple are feuding over online. ..’