’  ’ ’   Donald Trump has allegedly been accused of  according to media reports published on Thursday. ’ ”   USA Today analyzed 60 lawsuits documenting workers who were   employed by Trump and his businesses during the past several   decades who say that they weren’t compensated for the services   they provided, according to the report. ” ’   The accusers allegedly include hundreds of waiters, dishwashers,   carpenters, plumbers, bartenders,   brokers, and even   lawyers who represented the businessman in various suits. ’ ”   The son of one cabinet builder, Paul Friel, told the newspaper   that his family’s business submitted an $83, 600 bill in the 1980s   to the Trump Organization   part of a $400, 000 contract to build   cabinets and other furniture at Harrah’s at Trump Plaza. ” ’   Friel said that the firm never received the payment, the report   noted. ’ ’   ”That began the demise of the Edward J. Friel Company . .. which   has been around since my grandfather,” Friel said. ’ ’   The company was founded in the 1940s. ’ ”   USA Today also found more than 200 mechanics’ liens dating back   to the 1980s, which were filed by contractors and employees   claiming that Trump or his various companies and properties owed   them payment for their work. ” ”   The publication said that records released in 1990 by the New   Jersey Casino Control Commission revealed that on just one   Atlantic City project, Trump’s Taj Mahal casino, 253   subcontractors weren’t paid in full or on time. ” ”   One drapery factory owner, Larry Walters, told The Wall Street   Journal that his company was hired to supply Trump’s Las Vegas   hotel eight years ago. But Walters said that the developer, Trump   Ruffin,  when it demanded additional work that went   beyond the original contract. ” ’  ’ ’   Walters said that when he withheld some fabric, Trump Ruffin sued   him and authorities burst into the factory and hauled the fabric   away in trucks. ’ ’   Trump told The Wall Street Journal in May that he sometimes   doesn’’t pay vendors and business owners if their work was merely   satisfactory   ”an    job.” ’ ’   ”I love to hold back and negotiate when people don’’t do good   work,” he said. ’ ”   Similarly, he and his daughter, Ivanka, told USA Today that if   people they employ aren’t fully paid, then it’s because the Trump   Organization was unhappy with their work. ” ’   ”Let’’s say that they do a job that’’s not good, or a job that they   didn’’t finish, or a job that was way late. I’’ll deduct from their   contract, absolutely,” Trump said. ”That’’s what the country   should be doing.” ’ ’Donald Trump has allegedly been accused of not. ..’