’  ’ ’   Christina Grimmie, a star on ”The Voice” and a popular YouTube   singer, was shot and killed Friday night after a concert in   Florida in what police say was a planned killing.  ’ ’   Grimmie was signing autographs and interacting with fans after   her concert at the Plaza Live in Orlando when a man approached   and fired around 10:30 p. m.  ’ ’   Grimmie, 22, was rushed to the hospital in critical condition and   died shortly after.   ’ ’   The shooter, an unknown    man, had traveled to the   concert, and had ”plans to travel home” afterward, indicating he   had deliberately targeted Grimmie, according to Orlando police   Chief John Mina. ’ ”   Grimmie’s brother, Marcus, tackled the shooter to the ground, and   the shooter subsequently turned the gun on himself, Mina said. ” ’   ”Marcus’’ heroic actions may have prevented further loss of life,”   said Mina.  ’ ’   The shooter was carrying two loaded   handguns, two   loaded magazines, and a large hunting knife, police said. ’ ’  ’ ”   There were around 120 people in the venue when the shots were   fired, but there’s no video footage that police are aware of,   according to Mina.  ” ’   The Plaza Live had unarmed security guards on site, though no     were conducted at the door. ’ ”   The investigation is ongoing, and Mina said he expects more   details regarding the shooter’s name and possible motives to be   released later on Saturday. ” ”   Orlando detectives will be searching the shooter’s apartment, as   well as his computer and phone for possible   contact   with Grimmie.  ” ”   There has been an outpouring of grief on Twitter for Grimmie’s   passing: ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tRIP Christine Grimmie    : May God blessed your soul :(  world has just lost such a beautiful,. ..  ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tI Cant believe there are people in the world who could do such an evil, senseless act. Love & prayers to the Grimmie family.  ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tJust woke up to this horrible news about Christina Grimmie, my heart dropped, this one hits home hard. What the hell is wrong with people. ’t’t’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tMy heart is broken for the Grimmie family right now but I know heaven had a huge celebration when Christina met Jesus.  ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tRest in peace Christina Grimmie. Thank you for the music and sharing the word of God. I didn’t expect this. ’U000fe323’t’t” ’Christina Grimmie, a star on ”The Voice” and a. ..’