’  ’ ’   ISIS has claimed responsibility for another massacre: an  that killed at   least 50 people early Sunday morning. ’ ’   The shooting was . The suspected gunman,      Omar Mateen, reportedly  the terrorist group also known as   the Islamic State, ISIL, or Daesh, in a 911 call. ’ ’   After news outlets reported this, the   Amaq news   agency released a statement on its online propaganda channels   claiming responsibility for the attack. ’ ’   But the statement differed from those released after recent     attacks in Paris and Brussels. In the Amaq statement   released Sunday, the ISIS link to the Orlando attack was   attributed to a ”source.” The brief statement also did not   describe or provide any details about the attack. ’ ”   While the Paris and Brussels attackers had direct ties to ISIS   leaders, it’s unclear how closely Mateen is connected to the   group. ” ’   Michael Horowitz, a geopolitical and security analyst at the   Levantine Group, a Middle   risk consultancy, told   Business Insider that there had yet to be anything ”that even   remotely proves the attacker was in contact with ISIS.” ’ ’   Horowitz said in an email: ’ ’   Rita Katz, an expert on ISIS propaganda and cofounder of the SITE   Intelligence Group, made a similar assessment. ’ ’   ”There is no doubt that this message from Amaq is different than   the claim after the Brussels attack,” she told Business Insider   in an email. ”ISIS’’ Amaq message claim that shooter, Omar Mateen,   is an ISIS fighter, seems to be based on the media reports that   he pledged to ISIS.” ’ ’  ’ ”   The method in which the statement was released is also unusual.   For past attacks, ISIS has released official statements that are   directly from the group rather than from the   Amaq,   which  but is not officially part of   the terrorist group’s media wing. ” ’   ”A direct statement from ISIS would have had more weight,”   Horowitz said. ’ ’   ”It is not uncommon for ISIS to release its first   and sometimes   only   claim via   yet major ’’operations’’ such as the   Paris attack or the downing of the Russian plane [in Egypt] have   been claimed through official ISIS statements first, and later an     communique.” ’ ’   The   response from ISIS supporters has also been   muted compared with past attacks. ’ ”   After the Paris and Brussels attacks, ISIS’ online channels   . Channels on the encrypted messaging   app Telegram, which ISIS uses to send out information to   supporters, asked followers to post canned messages celebrating   the attacks and threatening more violence. ” ’   With the Orlando attack, there was no similar campaign. ’ ’   ”ISIS supporters praised the attack on social media, however,   there is no overwhelming output from   media groups” as   there was after the Paris and Brussels massacres, Katz said. ’ ’   This further indicates that the Orlando shooting is likely to be   a ”lone wolf attack and was not coordinated with ISIS leadership   as an ISIS operation,” she noted. ’ ’  ’ ”   ISIS’ leadership has showed it does not need to have had a direct   role in planning an attack to claim the attack as its own. Such   was the case in the shooting in San Bernardino, California, last   year, which was . ” ’   ”With the ISIS accepting all who pledge to it, the Amaq report on   the shooter being an IS fighter doesn’’t necessarily mean he   coordinated with the IS prior to the attack, but acted in their   name and they accept it as their own,” Katz said. ’ ’   ISIS has been encouraging     attacks as it loses   ground in the Middle East. Much of the group’’s recruitment   efforts are based on the message that ISIS is ”remaining and   expanding”   thousands of foreign fighters flocked to ISIS’’ de   facto capital of Raqqa, Syria, when the group looked like an   unstoppable force. ’ ’   But that message has been damaged recently as ground forces   backed by a   coalition have succeeded in taking back   territory from the group. Thus, to maintain its powerful image,   ISIS has started relying more on external attacks. ’ ’   The group has gone from calling all Muslims to come to its     caliphate in the Middle East to encouraging its   supporters to remain in their home countries and commit attacks   there. ’ ’   Last month, ISIS spokesman Abu Muhammad    calling on ISIS supporters to mount   attacks in Western countries. ’ ’   ”The smallest action you do in their heartland is better and more   enduring to us than what you would if you were with us,” Adnani   said in the statement. ”If one of you hoped to reach the Islamic   State, we wish we were in your place to punish the Crusaders day   and night.” ’ ’   Adnani also noted that some supporters were reluctant to kill   civilians. He then provided justification. ’ ’   ”Know that inside the lands of the belligerent crusaders, there   is no sanctity of blood and no existence of those called   ’’innocents,’’” Adnani said. ”Know that your targeting those who   are called ’’civilians’’ is more beloved to us and more effective,   as it is more harmful, painful, and a greater deterrent to them.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Horowitz noted that these messages could be effective as calls to   action for radicalized people. ’ ’   ”These messages by ISIS’’s leadership are meant to maximize the   psychological impact of these attacks among the Western public,”   he said. ’ ’   ”They create the perception that ISIS does control these attacks   from within the ’’safety’’ of its Caliphate in Iraq and Syria. In   general, however, ISIS has little control over these radicalized   individuals, other than pushing them to act within a specific   timeframe.” ’ ’   And ISIS might have seen this latest attack as an opportunity to   claim a success story on US soil. ’ ’   ”For the first time, the group seems to be ’’taking a risk’’ by   claiming an attack without being fully aware of the surroundings   of the alleged ’’pledge of allegiance,’’” Horowitz said. ”This may   stem from the group’’s situation, as it faces multiple offensives   in Iraq and Syria, and would also explain the phrasing ’’source to    ’’ before the statement.” ’ ’   Horowitz  that ISIS haste in claiming the attack showed   ”just how much the group was waiting for it to boost its morale   as it faces multiple offensives” in the Middle East. ’ ’   Mateen was known to US law enforcement. He was on an FBI list of   suspected ISIS sympathizers, and federal authorities had looked   into him in 2013 and 2014, officials said Sunday. ’ ’ISIS has claimed responsibility for another. ..’