’  ’ ’   If you’’ve ever been told that cooking ”burns off” any alcohol in   the food you’’re eating, be forewarned: That’’s entirely untrue. ’ ”   Sure, you’re not likely to get wasted nibbling on a small slice   of tiramisu, but it’s time to toss out that old story that you   can eat foods with alcohol and ignore any of their effects on   your blood alcohol levels. ” ’   As it turns out, many popular foods cooked with wine or liquor   still contain alcohol. ’ ’   But how much, you ask? ’ ’   New Scientist deputy editor Graham Lawton decided to experiment   on himself . In a video, he eats several dishes, all of which   have been sautéed, flambéed, or baked with booze. After each   plate, he uses a   breathalyzer to measure his blood   alcohol content. ’ ’   Check out his results: ’ ”   Before he starts eating, Lawton breathalyzes himself. He’s   already at a 0. 2 (0. 02 in US measurements)   thanks to having sampled some of the dessert he’d made earlier     a trifle with a touch of sherry. ” ’   Then, he dips into the appetizer he made, a   chorizo.   It looks pretty tasty: ’ ’  ’ ”   When he finishes the sausage, he tests his blood alcohol levels   again by blowing into the breathalyzer. Here’s his result: ” ’  ’ ’   Clearly, his blood alcohol level has gone up. Since it’’s too high   for his BAC meter to calculate accurately, the device simply   reads ”HI.” (We’’re not sure what kind of meter he was using or   how accurate it was, but his readings jibe with a  on alcohol retention   levels using various cooking methods.) ’ ’   ”Believe it or not,” says Lawton, ”I’’m already over the     limit, simply by eating that flambéed chorizo.” ’ ”   While that might seem extreme, we’re assuming that Lawton also   has an empty stomach when he starts the experiment, meaning that    from   whatever he consumed. That would explain why his BAC went up so   fast. Plus, adding alcohol to a boiling liquid and removing it   from heat, a process frequently used in making reductions for   meat dishes, leaves close to 85% of the alcohol added to the dish   intact, according to the USDA report. ” ’   Lawton explains that his next course, a Portuguese fish stew,   used 180 milliliters of white wine. The dish was then covered and   cooked for 30 minutes. ’ ’   ”You might say surely then that there’’s none of the alcohol   left,” says Lawton. We’’ll see. ’ ’  ’ ’   Again, he finishes the meal and takes a pause to test his blood   alcohol levels. ’ ”   To his surprise, his BAC has actually decreased, measuring in at   a 1. 3 (0. 13 in US measurements). That’s because   now that he has food in his stomach, he’s has begun absorbing the   alcohol at a slower rate. Still, this level is still . ” ’   Of all the cooking methods you could use, baking or simmering (as   was likely done with this fish stew) removes the most alcohol   overall, according to the USDA report. But 30 minutes of baking   still leaves you with a little over a third of any alcohol you   added to the mixture. ’ ’  ’ ’   Lawton says the last course is a traditional dessert made with   sherry, but with an added twist: A whipped topping made with   cream and silybum (milk thistle) liquor. ’ ’  ’ ’   After a serving of the creamy dessert, he measures his blood   alcohol levels again. Not surprisingly, they’’ve shot back up to   ”HI.” ’ ’  ’ ”   At this point, Lawton has food in his stomach, but not nearly   enough to keep up with all the alcohol he’s eating. Despite the   obvious effects that his    has on Lawton, it’s   important to remember that everyone processes alcohol   differently. Everything from how much you weigh to how much   you’ve eaten that day can affect how your body breaks down booze. ” ’   Looking for a cooking method that removes the most alcohol   possible? Cooking or simmering a dish for 2 and   hours or   more, the USDA report found, removes the majority (but still   leaves a small amount). Keep in mind, too, that you can always    for alcohol if needed. Ginger ale works great   instead of white wine, for example; tomato juice can be swapped   for red wine. ’ ”   Watch Lawton’s full video below. ” ’If you’’ve ever been told that cooking ”burns. ..’