’  ’ ’   Last month, Apple CEO Tim Cook said in a televised interview that   Apple was going to be around for the next ”thousand years.” ’ ’   ”We are not here for a quarter or two quarters or the next   quarter or the next year to next year, we are here for [a]   thousand years, and so we’’re not about making the most, we’’re   about making the best,” Cook said. ’ ”   Nowhere was that more evident than at Apple’s annual developers   conference, which kicked off in San Francisco on Monday. ” ”   The assortment of product updates and new features unveiled at   the event will be available to consumers in a few months. But a   close look at some of the things Apple introduced reveal a   strategy that’s much more   than the next iPhone   release. ” ’   So while Wall Street worries about  in 2016, Apple leadership is laying   the groundwork that it hopes will let it continue to dominate the   tech industry for decades to come. ’ ”   Cook didn’t spend much time onstage on Monday, instead turning   over many of the demos and announcements to his growing stable of   lieutenants. ” ’   But one of the announcements he personally gave was a curious   one. Swift Playgrounds, an extremely fun looking iPad app to   teach children basic programming. In Swift Playgrounds, kids will   learn programming concepts to help a tiny alien collect some   gems. ’ ”   Children aren’t really Apple’s core market   few      have $650 for a new iPhone, after all. But if there’s one   certainty about children, it’s that they’ll eventually grow up     and when they do, Apple wants them to be fluent in its   programming language. ” ”   Now that’s   planning: spending to educate young people   so that you’ll be able to replenish your workforce for years to   come. ” ’   Apple made a big deal at the event about how it now has four main   computing platforms: one each for wearables, smartphones, desktop   computers, and big screens like televisions. ’ ”   But Apple actually sneakily introduced even more new platforms on   Monday. In addition to the big ones for maps, Siri voice   assistant, and messaging, Monday’s keynote heralded the official   arrival of HomeKit for   notifications,     checkout for Apple devices on the web, and the phone app as an   interface for other apps. ” ’  ’ ’   All of these new platforms have one thing in common: They are   designed to attract outside software developers who will create   the next generation of apps and services in which Apple is the   center of gravity. ’ ”:   APIs for the Apple Watch, so   that one day you might be able to control computers by waving   your arms. You probably won’t be doing that in the next year, but   maybe by 2018 it will seem like second nature. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Every big tech company, from Google to Facebook, is building up   an arsenal of   technology right now,   bulking up for what many believe will be the next big paradigm in   computing. ’ ’   To some observers, Apple . ’ ’   The message on Monday was that Apple was simply taking the time   to define its own philosophy to AI and get it right. ’ ’   Apple sneaked in, unmentioned during the main event,  to make apps that use       techniques. ’ ’   And the company mentioned once again that it has an approach to   data that goes far beyond the anonymized approach of rivals like   Google and Facebook. Apple calls it ”differential privacy,” and   although what it entails isn’’t clear yet, Apple is doing     research so it can take advantage of AI without the   pitfalls of massive data collection. ’ ’   Analyst Jan Dawson  shortly after the keynote: ’ ”   Apple’s not worried about falling a few months behind Google or   Facebook in the AI race. It’s playing a long game. And in the     scenario, with its massive cash pile, Apple can spend   money buying AI technology and talent to catch up. ” ”   Nothing revealed during Apple’s keynote is immediately available   for consumers. But that’s not the point to a     programmer’s conference like WWDC. ” ”   By 3016, or even 2026, people might look back and see that Apple   planted the seeds for an important   technology   but   whether that’s voice, messaging, maps, or one of the myriad     additions Apple made on Monday remains to be seen. ” ’Last month, Apple CEO Tim Cook said in a. ..’