’  ’ ”   When something is obvious, then there’s probably more there. ” ’   On Monday, . ’ ’   Following the news,  some seemingly suspicious   options activity in shares of LinkedIn that had taken place on   Friday. ’ ’   Primack noted that someone bought over 600 call options   or a   contract to buy 60, 000 shares of LinkedIn for $160 by August.   Meanwhile, Microsoft had just said that it would pay $196 for   each of those shares. ’ ’   Given that LinkedIn shares were trading near $130 per share on   Friday, these options were cheap. Looking at this as a binary,   directional bet on LinkedIn shares going higher, our anonymous   options trader appears to have paid about $135, 000 for options   that are now worth about $2 million. ’ ’   Nice trade! ’ ’   But as  it is probably more complicated than that. ’ ’   These options,  appear to be bought   as part of a larger strategy called an ”iron condor” trade. ’ ’   I am not an options trader and will try not to botch the   explanation here, but this trade most simply involves using calls   at two price points   in this case, $160 and $185   and puts at   two price points, in this case, $125 and $115. ’ ”   All of these options were out of the money. The important thing   to note here is that an iron condor is effectively a bet that a   stock won’t do much of anything between now and August. ” ”   Bloomberg’s Matt Levine estimates that the losses look something   like this: ” ’ ’ ’   I think this:  ’ ’   Primack noted that in the past people have gotten in trouble for   this sort of thing, highlighting that weird options action ahead   of the   deal eventually led to charges. ’ ’   And look, people are dumb, but if you knew that this   merger was going to be announced on Monday, then buying a bunch   of options on Friday ahead of the announcement would be very,   very dumb. This would be, and I say this with no exaggeration,   the most obvious thing you could ever do to get in trouble with   the SEC. ’ ”   Recall that Phil Mickelson, for example, got in trouble for   . Mickelson didn’t   use options, but he  ahead of an event that he shouldn’t have   known about   despite not really trading much   and then sold it. ” ’   So the real takeaway here is,  when something on Wall Street looks   too bad to be true, then it probably is. ’ ”When something is obvious, then there’s. ..”