’  ’ ’   A former coworker of the suspected Orlando nightclub shooter,      Omar Mateen,  that Mateen ”became obsessed” with   getting his attention while they worked together, texting him 20   to 30 times a day and accusing him of betraying his friendship. ’ ’   The coworker, Daniel Gilroy, said that he distanced himself from   Mateen while they were working as security guards in Fort Pierce,   Florida, because Mateen made bigoted comments that made Gilroy   uncomfortable. ’ ’   ”He was very racist, very sexist,” Gilroy said from his home on   Tuesday. ”    and he made it known by   derogatory statements as much as he could.” ’ ’   Gilroy told The Times that he found Mateen ”unstable,” and when   he stopped communicating with Mateen, ”he started texting me a   lot     times a day.” ’ ’   He left messages, too, that Gilroy said ”were not threatening,   but scary.” ’ ’   ”He said ’’I thought you were my friend, you betrayed me   nobody   betrays me,’’” Gilroy recalled. ”But then it didn’’t escalate. He   was up and down.” ’ ’   After Mateen would berate Gilroy for not replying, he would pivot   and say, ”You’’re a good guy, you didn’’t do anything wrong,”   according to Gilroy. ’ ’   Then Mateen would become aggressive all over again. ’ ’   ”The next message was, ’’you’’ll live to regret this,’’” Gilroy   said, noting that he never replied to the messages. ’ ’  ’ ’   Gilroy’’s description of Mateen’’s    behavior align with   Mateen’’s  ’’s recollection of their time together before   getting divorced in 2011. She told reporters on Sunday that she   thought he was ”bipolar,” and that he would get angry and beat   her out of nowhere for something as small as not having done the   laundry or falling asleep on the   floor. ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’   When news broke of the shooting and Mateen’’s name was first   mentioned, Gilroy said, ”I absolutely knew he was the shooter.” ’ ’e  on Sunday that he complained multiple times   that Mateen was ”dangerous,” and ultimately quit his job because   the man would not leave him alone. In an interview  Gilroy described Mateen as ”unhinged.” ’ ’   But Gilroy told The New York Times that he felt like ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’A former coworker of the suspected Orlando. ..’