’  ’ ’   Multiple news outlets reported on Monday that the gunman who   carried out the Orlando terrorist attack  where he killed at least 49   people. ’ ’   He also used multiple   apps, according to several   people who had communicated with him on the apps. ’ ’   And one of his former classmates  that he believed Mateen was gay     something federal investigators are now    and that Mateen once asked him out   romantically. ’ ’   The new developments about    Mateen complicate his   likely motives and his pledge of allegiance to ISIS   aka the   Islamic State, ISIL, or Daesh   the terrorist group that has been   known to . ’ ’   But ISIS might have a   justification for claiming   Mateen as a ”soldier of the caliphate” despite the fact that   homosexuality goes against the strict interpretation of Islamic   Sharia law the group brutally imposes. ’ ’   ”IS’’ murderous hatred for homosexuals is   so it might   be expected that if it turns out that Mateen was a homosexual   this would put them in something of a bind, but in fact IS has a   rather easy theological   clause,” Kyle Orton, a Middle   East analyst and fellow with the Henry Jackson Society, a       think tank, told Business Insider in an   email. ’ ’   He said: ’ ’   Orton noted that ISIS’’s ”repentance factor” goes back to Abu   Musab   the founder of Al Qaeda in Iraq, ISIS’’s   predecessor. The Jordan native had ”a fondness for alcohol,   drugs, and tattoos” and a criminal background before he started   the terrorist group that was so bloodthirsty that it was disowned   by Al Qaeda, according to Orton. ’ ’   Zarqawi ”felt that by correcting his own practice of his   religion, and forcibly correcting others, he was doing God’’s   work,” Orton said. ’ ’   And Sunni tribes that fought against Al Qaeda in Iraq during the   US war there were allowed to ”repent” to avoid slaughter when   ISIS seized territory in Iraq. ’ ’   Orton said: ’ ’   Thomas Joscelyn, a senior fellow at the Foundation for Defense of   Democracies and an expert on terrorist groups, made a similar   assessment. He noted that ISIS could possibly hide the news of   Mateen patronizing the LGBTQ club and using   apps from   those in its core territory in the Middle East. It still   maintains control of the internet in towns it rules. ’ ’   ”I don’’t think it will be a problem in the countries where ISIS   mainly operates because the news probably won’’t get through and   ISIS can easily deflect,” Joscelyn told Business Insider in an   email. ”In its propaganda aim at the West, it can also deflect in   a number of ways, including saying he redeemed himself from his   ’’sinful’’ past.” ’ ’  ’ ”   Still, the new information about Mateen   who was married with a   child   could complicate ISIS’s image as a group of pious   ideologues. And Mateen terrorizing a nightclub that he used to   frequent suggests underlying motives that have nothing to do with   radical Islam. ” ’   One man told MSNBC that he blocked Mateen on a   app and   described his messages as ”creepy.” ’ ’   The classmate who told The Palm Beach Post that he thought Mateen   was gay also described him as ”awkward.” ’ ’   ”He just wanted to fit in and no one liked him,” he told the   Post. ”He was always socially awkward.” ’ ’   Some of the people closest to Mateen have hinted at psychological   issues. A woman who was married to him claimed that he abused   her, and acquaintances of his remembered him as angry and   aggressive. His father has also been criticized for his comments   after the shooting, suggesting that it was up to God, not his   son, to punish gay people. ’ ’   Experts also have doubts that Mateen was ever in contact with   ISIS leadership. ’ ’   Several of the terrorists who carried out the Paris attacks last   year and the Brussels attacks earlier this year had trained in   Syria and worked with   ISIS operatives to formulate   their European terrorist cells. Mateen, however, was likely   radicalized online, according to US officials. ’ ”   That type of radicalization plays into  of encouraging supporters in the West to   carry out attacks inspired by the group’s messaging. But it also   carries the risk of claiming attacks before the group knows many   details about the people who carried them out. ” ’   ”I don’’t find it surprising that Mateen may have been gay,”   Joscelyn said. ”If true, I think it does complicate the Islamic   State’’s claim. The organization openly flaunts its hatred for   homosexuals.” ’ ’   Even so, Joscelyn said that he ”wouldn’’t be shocked if Mateen was   both sexually repressed and attracted to jihadi ideas.” ’ ’   ”Humans, even those attracted to jihadism, are filled with   logical contradictions,” he said. ”There are multiple   possibilities here.” ’ ’Multiple news outlets reported on Monday. ..’