’  ’ ”   In  released on Wednesday, the Republican   Party’s favorability rating hit a new low. ” ”   Just 32% of Americans viewed the GOP favorably   the lowest that   rating has been since the poll’s inception in 2009. ” ”   The Democratic Party’s favorability rating was notably higher, at   49%. ” ”   Pollster J. Ann Selzer linked the low GOP rating to Donald Trump,   the party’s presumptive nominee for president. ” ’   ”This is obviously related to perceptions of Trump,” Selzer told   Bloomberg. ”This bleeds out into perceptions of the party and to   other GOP politicians.” ’ ’’ ’   While nearly 33% of Republicans said that they viewed Trump   unfavorably, only 17% of Democrats had an unfavorable view of   Hillary Clinton, the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee. ’ ”   Negative feelings about the GOP are also increasingly coming from   within the party’s own membership. In December 2014, 9% of   Republicans viewed the party unfavorably. That number has now   climbed to 28%. ” ’   But Trump still has significant support from party members. The   Bloomberg poll found that 69% of likely Republican voters think   that Trump will be good for the party. ’ ”   Bloomberg’s poll was conducted Friday through Monday. It had a   margin of error of plus or minus 3. 1%. ” ’   Another Bloomberg poll released on Tuesday showed Trump  in a     matchup. ’ ’   And an overwhelming 55% of total respondents . In comparison, 43%   of those polled said that they could never support Clinton. ’ ’   The Bloomberg poll was the third such survey this week to show   Clinton with a commanding lead. ’ ”   An   weekly tracking poll released on Tuesday   morning  Clinton with a   lead over Trump, a     bump over NBC’s tracking poll two weeks ago. ” ”   And a  released on Tuesday found Trump’s   negative rating at its highest level of any time since he entered   the presidential campaign almost exactly one year ago. That poll   found that 70% of Americans hold a negative view of Trump,   compared to 55% who hold a negative view of Clinton. ” ’ Allan Smith and Maxwell Tani contributed to this report. ’ ’In a Bloomberg poll released on Wednesday. ..’