’  ’ ”   Sen. Bernie Sanders hinted that he may soon officially drop out   of the Democratic presidential primary, but he’s not ready quite   yet. ” ’   In a video address to supporters on Thursday, Sanders emphasized   that he is prepared to help defeat presumptive Republican   presidential nominee Donald Trump. ’ ’   ”The major political task that we face in the next five months is   to make certain that Donald Trump is defeated and defeated   badly,” Sanders said. ”And I personally intend to begin my role   in that process in a very short period of time.” ’ ’   But the Vermont senator also indicated that he may not exit the   race before the Democratic National Convention next month,   despite lacking the delegates needed to secure the nomination. ’ ’   ”Defeating Donald Trump cannot be our only goal. We must continue   our grassroots efforts to create the America that we know we can   become,” Sanders said, according to prepared remarks. ’ ’   ”And we must take that energy into the Democratic National   Convention on July 25 in Philadelphia, where we will have more   than 1, 900 delegates,” he continued. ’ ’  ’ ”   On Tuesday, Sanders met with Clinton for what some observers   described as a productive but  meeting, where the two discussed the terms   of Sanders’ exit and how best to beat presumptive Republican   presidential nominee Donald Trump. ” ’   The New York Times reported that the Vermont senator declined an   opportunity to endorse Clinton in order to seek further   concessions on many of the policies he championed in the   campaign. ’ ”   Sanders said in his address that he anticipated future   discussions with the former secretary of state’s campaign and   Democratic party officials to influence the Democratic Party’s   official campaign platform. ” ’   ”I look forward, in the coming weeks, to continued discussions   between the two campaigns to make certain that your voices are   heard and that the Democratic Party passes the most progressive   platform in its history and that Democrats actually fight for   that agenda,” Sanders said. ’ ’ ’ ’Sen. Bernie Sanders hinted that he may soon. ..’