’   Labour Party MP Jo Cox has died after being shot and stabbed on   Thursday afternoon near the northern city of Leeds in West   Yorkshire, the chief constable of West Yorkshire Police, Dee   Collins,  in a press conference. ’ ’   The Labour member of parliament for Batley and Spen was meeting   with constituents at Birstall Library on Market Street before she   was shot at least twice and stabbed. A    man is also   sustained    injuries in the attack, which took   place about 1 p. m. local time. ’ ’   Cox was taken by air ambulance to Leeds General Infirmary, but   she was pronounced dead at 1. 48 p. m. West Yorkshire Police   confirmed. ’ ’  ’ ’   A    man, named locally as Tommy Mair, has been arrested   in connection to the attack, according to Sky News. ’ ’   The assailant shouted ”Britain first!” while attacking the MP,   eyewitnesses say. It was unclear whether he was referring to   Britain First, the   political party. ’ ’   Clarke Rothwell, a local cafe owner, said the perpetrator shouted   ”Britain first, Britain first, Britain first” as he stabbed Cox,   . ’ ’   Rothwell added: ”He shot this lady once, then shot her again and   she fell to the floor. He went over, shot her once more in the   face area . .. then he was wielding a knife, a hunting knife.” ’ ’   The attacker also kicked Cox before walking away from the scene,   local restaurant owner Hithem Ben Abdallah . ’ ’ ’ ’ The picture below appears to show the suspect being   arrested by the police: ’ ’  ’ ’   Rothwell told The BBC: ”Somebody tried to grab him, wrestling   with him and then he wielded a knife, like a hunting knife, just   started lunging at her with a knife half a dozen times. People   were screaming and running from the area.” ’ ’   The gun the attacker used was described as ”handmade” by   eyewitness Ben Abdallah, . ’ ’   Cox, a    married mother of two who won her seat in   Parliament in the 2015 general election, has received threats in   the past for her criticism of Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn,   according to Sky. The motive for the attack, however, has not yet   been established. ’ ’   A former aid worker, Cox set up and chaired the     Parliamentary Friends of Syria group, and she was also part of   the Stronger In campaign advocating that Britain vote to stay in   the European Union in the June 23 referendum. ’ ” Shortly after the attack, Cox’s husband, Brendan, tweeted   the following picture: ” ’       —   Brendan Cox  (@MrBrendanCox)     ’ ’  ’ ’ He also issued this statement, : ’ ’ Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn has released the   following statement: ’ ’     ’t’t’tThe whole of the Labour family, and indeed the whole country, is in shock and grief at the horrific murder of Jo Cox   —   Jeremy Corbyn MP  (@jeremycorbyn)     ’ ’ ’t’t’tThe whole of the Labour family, and indeed the whole country, is in shock and grief at the horrific murder of Jo Cox  ’ ’   Both Remain and Leave have suspended their European referendum   campaigns for the rest of the day. Prime Minister David Cameron   has cancelled his trip to Gibraltar, where he was also due to   campaign. ’ ’ A   vigil was held for Cox in Parliament Square   on Thursday evening. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tStanding in vigil for  on Parliament Sq. PM  &  spoke for us. Please join us in grief for a brave friend’t’t’ ’     ’t’t’tVigil in Parliament Sq for    —   Chris Ship  (@chrisshipitv)     ’ ’ ’t’t’tVigil in Parliament Sq for   ’ ’ Gabrielle Giffords, the former US congresswoman for   Arizona, who was the victim of an assassination attempt in 2011,   sent this tweet in tribute to Cox: ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tAbsolutely sickened to hear of the assassination of Jo Cox. She was young, courageous, and hardworking. A rising star, mother, and wife. ’t’t’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Cox is the first sitting member of parliament to be killed since   1990, when Conservative MP Ian Gow was killed by a car bomb at   his Sussex home. The IRA claimed responsibility for Gow’s murder. ” ’ This a developing story:  or refresh this page for updates. ’ ’Labour Party MP Jo Cox has died after being. ..’