’  ’ ’   A Chicago man was shot and killed while live streaming a video on   Facebook, police said on Friday, just days after a     in France in which the killer later took to   Facebook Live to encourage more violence. ’ ”   Antonio Perkins, 28, was found face down on Wednesday night in a   vacant lot with gunshot wounds to the neck and head on the city’s   west side, Chicago police officer Laura Amezaga said. ” ’   Perkins was taken to a hospital where he was pronounced dead.   Police on Friday identified the man in the video as Perkins, who   they said was a documented gang member. No arrests have been   made. ’ ”   In France, a    man killed a French police commander and   the commander’s partner on Tuesday, then he took to Facebook Live   with a   video encouraging followers to kill prison   staff, police officials, journalists and lawmakers. ” ”   The incidents underscore the immense challenges companies such as   Facebook Inc, Twitter Inc and Google’s YouTube face as they push   live video streaming to hundreds of millions of people. ” ’’ ’   Facebook in recent months has made its Live feature   which   allows anyone to broadcast a video in real time   a central   component of its strategy. It allows people to stream from their   smartphone. ’ ’   Chicago, the   U. S. city, has drawn attention due to   its gun violence, which police have blamed largely on gang   violence and a proliferation of stolen guns. There were nearly   500 homicides last year, and gun violence is up in 2016, police   say. ’ ’   The Facebook Live video appears to show Perkins recording himself   and a group of people in front of a row of homes before someone   opened fire. The phone appears to tumble through bloody grass   before going black. The audio continues with bystanders screaming   and crying. ’ ’   The video remains on Facebook with a user warning message about   its graphic nature. ’ ’   A spokeswoman from Facebook acknowledged the video posting,   saying it does not violate company policy. The social media site   will remove a video if it celebrates or glorifies violence, she   said. ’ ’ Reporting by Justin Madden. Editing by Daniel Trotta and Alan   Crosby. ’ ’A Chicago man was shot and killed while live. ..’