’  ’ ’   Impact investing   that is, investing with a cause in mind   is   becoming increasingly popular. ’ ’   Millennials are twice as likely to invest in companies that have   a positive impact on society, and that generation is set to   invest around $40 trillion over the next three decades. ’ ”     investors are talking excitedly about . The   world’s biggest insurer, Axa, recently . And the market for green bonds, where   the . ” ’   The problem for these kinds of investors and investments is the   lack of data to measure environmental impact. ’ ’   Most data on environmental, social, or governance factors comes   from a single source: reports from the companies themselves.   Finding new data to make sustainable outcomes measurable   and   increasing the transparency around how that data is reported and   measured   is key. ’ ”   BlackRock, the world’s largest investor with $4. 6 trillion in   assets, is working to address that very problem. The company’s   Impact team has partnered with its scientific active equity, or   SAE, to pull together new insights on the impact of their   investments. ” ’   ”There was this massive problem in the marketplace: Can we   reasonably measure the environmental and social consequences of   our investments?” Joshua Kazdin, a San   vice   president in SAE who works with BlackRock Impact, told Business   Insider. ’ ’   ”At BlackRock, we argue that we are at a unique time to tackle   this obstacle because there is so much data being created across   the globe. If you have the machinery and the knowledge to plug   into it, you can start to address both financial and sustainable   objectives of clients and investors.” ’ ’   That could mean, for example, pulling patent data across the   globe to find out which companies are focusing on environmental   and sustainable technologies like waste treatment or alternative   energy. Or it might mean examining how companies treat their   employees, based on data from   websites like   Glassdoor. ’ ’  ’ ”   Within healthcare, for example, Kazdin’s team scrapes data on   clinical trials from a government website and maps estimates for   disease burden using data from a University of Washington website   in order to identify the   companies. ” ’   They weigh total clinical trials and research and development at   various companies, and compare that with others within their size   cohort, to make an investment decision. ’ ’   The alternative data Kazdin collects is used like any other   signal to build a portfolio. ’ ’   One product Kazdin’’s team helped create is the  BIRAX, which invests in a portfolio of   equity securities with ”postive aggregate societal impact   outcomes,” according to the firm. ’ ”   BIRAX’s holdings include the tech companies Apple, Microsoft, and   Alphabet, the banks JPMorgan and Wells Fargo, and the   pharmaceutical companies Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson. ” ’   ”To be able to break the wall between who you are and what your   money does in the world is a great service that we can provide to   our clients,” Kazdin said. ’ ’   Measuring alternative data points like the ones Kazdin evaluates   also adds value to the investment process in the form of   additional data points that are useful in making better     decisions. ’ ”   How well a company treats its employees, for example, might have   an effect on that company’s productivity. Maintaining a poor     track record can also come back to haunt   companies, and their shares, down the road. ” ’   That was the case  which was caught cheating     tests and has since seen a significant decline   in car sales and has become embroiled in a costly legal battle.   Its stock is down 44% in the past year. ’ ’   This kind of data collection is just the beginning. ’ ’   ”Over time, the data and analytics will improve exponentially,”   BlackRock’’s global head of impact investing, Deborah Winshel,   said. ’ ’Impact investing  —   that is, investing. ..’