’  ’ ”   Snapchat has been secretly hard at work on what has been   described as a competitor to Google Glass. A source has tipped   Business Insider off, however, that Snapchat’s supposedly     project may have been hiding in plain sight. ” ’   In August, Snapchat CEO Evan Spiegel was pictured wearing a very   different pair of sunglasses from his usual ones while on   vacation in Corsica with his girlfriend, the model Miranda Kerr. ’ ’   The paparazzi photos taken of Spiegel show him looking straight   at a camera with a very circular pair of frames and what appears   to be cameras on either side of them. ’ ”   Compared with Spiegel’s normal aviator style, the sunglasses   photographed in August appear to have thicker frames and the   attached cameras. They’re similar to but aren’t exactly clones of   the glasses made by Vergence Labs, a company Snapchat acquired in   2014. ” ’   The source told Business Insider of being ”shocked” that Spiegel   had apparently worn the early prototype on vacations and that   nobody noticed, though the CEO might have not been expecting to   be photographed at the secluded beach. The photo was also taken   months before news of Snapchat’’s hardware efforts surfaced, which   may explain why it went unnoticed at the time. ’ ’  ’ ’   Snapchat is ”very serious” about a hardware play, a different   source with knowledge of the situation told Business Insider, and   the company has been on a hiring spree to build up its team for   it. The company is regularly sending teams to China to work with   contract manufacturers for the project, according to another   source. ’ ”   Snapchat’s hardware ambitions first came to light in March,    to an earlier string of notable hardware   hires, including eyewear designer Lauryn Morries and a former   employee who listed his experience as working on highly   miniaturized and very   electronics. ” ’  ’ ’   CNET speculated that Snapchat could be working on a Google     device, which would mark a major expansion for the     startup, which is valued . ’ ’   The photos of Spiegel wearing the alleged early prototype   appeared six months before the report, meaning the company could   be further along in development than previously thought. ’ ”   Yet it’s still ramping up production. In the past six months, the   company has brought on two more hardware specialists from GoPro   and a handful of specialists in   electronics. Snapchat   also hired the technical recruiter for Google’s Project Aura, the   group responsible for Glass, and the technical recruiter for   Microsoft’s HoloLens project. ” ”   Snapchat didn’t immediately respond to request for comment. ” ” Do you know more about Snapchat’s plans? Email the reporter   at bcarson@businessinsider. com. ” ’Snapchat has been secretly hard at work on what. ..’