Good morning. (Want to get California Today by email? Sign up.) Dozens of California cities looking to shore up revenues are flirting with a new idea  —   tax your “Gilmore Girls” binge. Pasadena was among the first to say publicly this fall that it wanted to tax video streaming services like Netflix, a step that could make up for lost tax revenue from growing numbers of  . At 9. 4 percent, the   Netflix tax would treat streaming services as a traditional utility, the city said. If you use multiple services  —   for example, Hulu, Amazon Video and HBO  —   it would be added to each bill. The move in Pasadena, with a population of about 140, 000, has drawn consternation from technology companies and consumers who worry that it could be copied across the state. “Websites and apps are not utilities and it defies logic to tax them like electricity, water or gas,” said Noah Theran, spokesman for the Internet Association, a trade group. No California city has yet to begin collecting the tax. But roughly 40 cities, among them Glendale, Santa Barbara, Stockton and Sacramento, have gotten guidance from municipal consultants on how they might. Public officials have argued that taxation rules need to be revised to account for changing technologies. It is unfair, some say, that people who get video through cable television are taxed while those who have shifted over to internet streaming services are not. One question officials would need to resolve is where to stop, analysts say. If streaming video is taxable, then what about music, podcasts or video games? “It opens a big Pandora’s box,” said Paul Verna, an analyst at eMarketer, a technology research company. Mr. Verna said many of the streaming video tax proposals in California have bubbled up under the radar. If there is to be a larger debate, it will erupt when people start seeing their bills, he said. For now, the proposed tax is “under internal review,” William Boyer, a Pasadena city spokesman, said in an email. Tyron Hampton, a council member who has opposed the tax, said that with the city’s underfunded pensions, officials were right to be looking for novel ways to raise money. But the web should be off limits, he said: “The basic tenet of the internet is that the internet is supposed to be free. ” • Officials in   sanctuary cities say they will act as a bulwark against mass deportations, even at the risk of losing federal money. [The New York Times] • Letters were sent to multiple California mosques warning that Donald J. Trump would “cleanse” the U. S. of Muslims. [Los Angeles Times] • California’s bar association is considering a ban on lawyers having sex with clients, and some are unhappy about it. [The Associated Press] • A California jury awarded a     $20 million. “My soul feels taller,” she said. [The New York Times] • In the new workplace,   balance may give way to   mix. [The New York Times] • Ron Glass, who portrayed Ron Harris, the dapper detective on “Barney Miller,” died at his home in Los Angeles. He was 71. [The New York Times] • Shawn Levy made a name for himself directing tacky family comedies. Now his company is the unlikely force behind the hit film “Arrival. ” [The New York Times] • Has a California   found the secret to farming the elusive truffle? [The New York Times] • Video: New drone footage shows the progress on Apple’s “spaceship” campus in Cupertino. [SFGate. com] • A sampling of the dozens of cities holding Christmas tree lightings this week. Monday: San Luis Obispo. Tuesday: San Francisco. Wednesday: Artesia. Thursday: Roseville. Friday: Redding. Saturday: Chowchilla and San Juan Capistrano. Sunday: Hayfork and Hermosa Beach. • The California Hall of Fame ceremony will be held Wednesday in Sacramento. This year’s inductees include Harrison Ford, Maria Shriver and one of baseball’s great hitters, the Padres’ Tony Gwynn. • On Thursday, Stanford University will host the State of the West Symposium, an annual gathering that takes stock of economic health in the American West. • The Indio International Tamale Festival celebrates its 25th anniversary this year. The   festival starts Saturday with music, dancing, a parade and thousands of tamales. Interest in secession got a boost in California this month after the victory of Donald J. Trump. But another sort of rebellion occurred in Northern California long before Election Day. It was this week in 1941 that a group of miners halted traffic along Route 99 in Siskiyou County and handed out proclamations to motorists declaring the formation of Jefferson, a new state named after the author of the Declaration of Independence. With Yreka as its capital, Jefferson would include parts of both Oregon and California where resentments had simmered over the supposed neglect of politicians in the capitals of Salem and Sacramento. The journalist Lawrence E. Davies described the scene in the Nov. 28 edition of The New York Times: The agitators complained that the region was deprived of proper roads needed to transport their copper ore and timber. They vowed to barricade the highway every Thursday until their demands were met. But the uprising was to be  . Gilbert Gable, the mayor of Port Orford, Ore. who had initiated the Jefferson movement and led its public relations effort, died on Dec. 2. Five days after that, Pearl Harbor was attacked. And the mood for rebellion was eclipsed by the war effort. Now, more than seven decades later, the movement for a state of Jefferson remains a hot issue in Northern California. In 2013, the Siskiyou County board of supervisors approved a declaration that called for breaking away from the state. The complaints echo those of the miners in the 1940s: chiefly, a perceived lack of representation in Sacramento. California Today goes live at 6 a. m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes. com. The California Today columnist, Mike McPhate, is a   Californian  —   born outside Sacramento and raised in San Juan Capistrano. He lives in Davis. Follow him on Twitter. California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and attended U. C. Berkeley.