’  ’ ’   Is it possible to invest for a cause and deliver competitive   financial returns? ’ ’   A couple of years ago, a group of young financiers at the     giant BlackRock set out to find out. ’ ’   Zaneta Koplewicz and Rob Morris, who were 28 and 26 at the time,   were inspired by a 2011 article in The Economist about impact   investing. ’ ’   That means investing in companies or organizations for a cause,   like environmental or social good, while still generating a   financial return. ’ ’   BlackRock is a huge organization with $4. 6 trillion in assets   under management, so Koplewicz and Morris first needed to find   potential home for such a division. They eventually got Ken   Wilson, a vice chairman of the firm, on board to help. ’ ’   They created a voluntary working group, which brought a proposal   to CEO Larry Fink. Fink liked the idea, and that led to the   creation of BlackRock Impact, which today manages some $200   billion with products ranging from sustainable     funds, or ETFs, to   funds. ’ ’   Fink hired Deborah Winshel   who was previously president and   chief operating officer of the Robin Hood Foundation, and before   that, chief financial officer of the Metropolitan Museum of Art     to lead the charge as global head of impact investing. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”From the very beginning, this was never considered a standalone   set of products for niche investors, but rather an approach to   investing that can be integrated across a portfolio, driven by   our clients who increasingly seek these strategies,” John   McKinley, a vice president and member of the BlackRock Impact   team, told Business Insider. ’ ’  ’ ”   Impact’s approach is   including screened   investments that exclude specific sectors like tobacco or fossil   fuels; investments that focus on companies with strong   environmental, social, and governance performance, like a     fund; and investments that target specific, measurable   outcomes. ” ”   A big part of what they do is about reframing the investments   BlackRock already makes. The firm had an existing     fund, for example, before Deborah came on board. Her team then   worked to ensure it fit Impact’s requirements and then   incorporated it into the platform. ” ’  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   The market for green bonds, where the . ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’Is it possible to invest for a cause and. ..’