’  ’ ’   NEW YORK CITY   Four NYPD officials were arrested Monday morning   for accepting trips, lavish gifts and prostitutes from two   Brooklyn businessmen in exchange for police escorts, access and   gun licenses, federal prosecutors said. ’ ” the former   commanding officer of the 19th and 66th precincts,  the former      in the housing bureau, and  who worked in the   department’s licensing division, were arrested at their homes on   public corruption conspiracy and bribery charges, sources and   prosecutors said. ” ” who hosted a 2014 fundraiser for   the mayor’s Campaign for One New York nonprofit, was also   arrested at his Brooklyn home on fraud and conspiracy charges,     officials said.  who goes by Shaya, was also   arrested and charged with bribing officers to   gun   permits, feds said. ” ’   ”They got, in effect, a police force for themselves and their   friends,”  said. ”Effectively,   they got cops on call.” ’ ’ was also arrested on   charges he accepted bribes from Lichtenstein in exchange for gun   licenses. He has already pleaded guilty and is cooperating with   investigators, prosecutors said. ’ ’   ”Gun licenses were issued to people who had no business having   them,” Bharara said. ’ ’   In a federal criminal complaint, FBI Special Agent Blaire Toleman   detailed a   relationship between Grant and Reichberg in   which the deputy inspector accepted gifts including trips to Rome   and Las Vegas, where he received ”services” from a prostitute. ’ ’   Investigators believe Grant, who filed for retirement last month,   provided Reichberg police escorts through traffic from the   airport when the businessman returned from overseas trips. ’ ’   According to prosecutors, Grant, who is married with children,   flew to Las Vegas in February 2013 on a private jet with a group   that included a prostitute, who then stayed in his hotel room. ’ ’   ”I have spoken to law enforcement agents who have debriefed [the   prostitute] who confirmed, among other things, that [she] was   engaged to accompany the persons on the trip and that Grant and   others took advantage of her services during the trip,” Toleman   said in the federal complaint. ’ ’   Months later, Grant took a vacation to Rome with his family and   others, prosecutors said. ’ ”   On Christmas Day 2013, Reichberg showed up at Grant’s Staten   Island home wearing an elf hat and gave him a video game system   for his children and a $1, 000 piece of jewelry for his wife,   prosecutors said. ” ’   ”These are never good days, never easy days,” NYPD Commissioner   Bill Bratton said. ”Police officers, especially     members of the department, have to know better.” ’ ’ ’ ’NEW YORK CITY  —   Four NYPD. ..’