’  ’ ’   All four pieces of   legislation  failed   to garner enough support to pass the Senate on Monday. ’ ’The two headline proposals, amendments to a spending bill,   were offered up by Democratic Sen. Dianne Feinstein of California   and Republican Sen. John Cornyn of Texas and focused on suspected   terrorists being able to buy weapons. ’ ’   The other proposals, from Republican Sen. Chuck Grassley of Iowa   and Democratic Sen. Chris Murphy of Connecticut, focused on   background checks. ’ ’   Each amendment needed 60 votes to pass. ’ ’   The   bill, favored by Senate Democratic     activists, would have effectively barred individuals   on the terror watch list from buying firearms by allowing the   attorney general to stop sales. It failed on a   vote. ’ ’   The bill first failed on a   virtual   vote after   the San Bernardino shooting. Sen. Mark Kirk of Illinois was the   only Republican to vote in favor of the legislation, which he   still backs, while Sen. Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota was the   lone Democrat to vote against it. Democratic Sen. Mark Warner of   Virginia did not vote. ’ ’   This time around, Warner and Republican Sen. Kelly Ayotte of New   Hampshire voted for the bill. Heitkamp still voted against the   legislation. ’ ’   ”Senate Republicans should be embarrassed, but of course they’’re   not because the [National Rifle Association] is happy,” Senate   Minority Leader Harry Reid of Nevada said in a press conference   following the vote. ’ ’   ”The junior senator from New Hampshire said that she’’s going to   vote yes on everything,” he added of Ayotte. ”She should make up   her mind and not be a hypocrite. That’’s not logical, but that’’s   what she’’s doing.” ’ ’   He pointed toward reports that Susan Collins, a Republican   senator from Maine, is going to attempt to lead a bipartisan   resolution on the issue of suspected terrorists being able to buy   weapons, and said that he hopes that she ”can drum up 20 votes”   but added that ”the NRA doesn’’t support even that.” ’ ’   During the same press conference, Murphy said that he’’s   ”mortified by today’’s vote, but I’’m not surprised by it.” ’ ’   Florida Sen. Bill Nelson, a Democrat, used powerful language as   well. ’ ’   ”What am I going to tell the 49 grieving families?” he asked. ’ ’  ’ ’   Opponents to the Feinstein bill argued that because people could   be placed on a terror watch list without being found guilty of a   crime, the bill could result in US citizens on the list being   stripped of their Second Amendment right without due process.   There have been multiple cases in which people have been wrongly   put on the list. ’ ’   ”Is going after the Second Amendment how you stop terrorism? No,”   House Speaker Paul Ryan said on Thursday during his weekly press   briefing. ”That’’s not how you stop terrorism.” ’ ’   Democratic  of Connecticut  among others, have insisted   that due process elements would be ”baked into it.” ’ ’   The Cornyn bill, backed by Senate Republicans and the NRA, was a   slightly altered version of the Shield Act proposed by the   senator last year that failed. This time around, the Cornyn bill   failed on a   vote. ’ ’   The Cornyn proposal aimed to stop those suspected of terrorism   from buying a firearm while also accounting for due process. The   legislation would have authorized the attorney general to put a     hold on a firearm sale for a person on the terror watch   list. Authorities would then have had the three days to show   probable cause before a judge to permanently stop the sale. ’ ’   ”What law enforcement wants to do 90% of the time, 99% of the   time, is let it go through,” NRA executive vice president Wayne   LaPierre told CBS’’s ”Face the Nation” on Sunday. ”They want to   watch it. They want to build a case. They want to build   patterns.” ’ ’   ”The accommodation is the Cornyn bill, which does exactly what   law enforcement set up,” he continued. ”It codifies the whole   thing . .. And it provides due process for the good people. And it   gives law enforcement the ability where they can conduct these   investigations and it won’’t blow what they’’re doing.” ’ ’   Senate Democrats and   advocates had come out strongly   against the Cornyn bill   the one bill that would have taken   fewer votes from across the aisle to pass. ’ ’   Booker said during a Thursday CNN interview: ’ ’   Sen. Chuck Schumer of New York called the bill a wolf ”in sheep’’s   clothing” during a Thursday news conference, adding that, under   Cornyn’’s proposal, ”every terrorist will get a gun.” ’ ’   ”If the FBI had that evidence, they would’’ve arrested them in the   first place,” he said. ”It’’s a fake. It’’s a way to say they’’re   doing something when they’’re doing nothing.” ’ ’   A ”whole court case in three days?” he continued. ”Who would   think that would make any sense?” ’ ’All four pieces of   legislation. ..’