’  ’ ”   Elon Musk, the CEO of Tesla Motors, just hung an albatross around   his shareholders’ necks. ” ’   Through Tesla,  for embattled     firm SolarCity, which Musk cofounded. ’ ’   He said that this deal would help to make Tesla the first   ”vertically integrated  SolarCity’’s stock   is up 20% on the news. ’ ’   Of course, this is just an offer and not yet a done deal, and   there are plenty of reasons why it could still fall through. But   if it does happen, then Tesla shareholders should be worried. ’ ”   Now, in case you haven’t been following the SolarCity story, it’s   the company that, a few minutes before this deal was announced,   Goldman Sachs said was the  ” ”   It’s a company that, aside from this M&A bump, has seen its   stock collapse almost 60% since the start of the year and lowered   guidance for the year down 16% during its last earnings call. ” ”   It’s also a company that is helmed by Elon Musk’s cousin,   . Go figure. ” ”   Tesla’s stock, you should know, is down 10% in     trading. ” ’   Aside from the Musk family and an obvious commitment to   environmental sustainability, the most important thing that these   two companies have in common is cash burn. They do it a lot. In   fact, SolarCity will add another $700 million bill on top of what   Tesla already spends per quarter. ’ ’   Statements like the following probably sound familiar to Tesla   shareholders at this point. ’ ’   ”We think reaching cost targets and positive cash flow by     will be key. We view SCTY’’s business as high risk given   its need to continually raise capital,” wrote an analyst at   S&P Global after SolarCity’’s last earnings call. ’ ’  ’ ’   Because they sound like this   from a Morgan Stanley note: ’ ’   Both companies also have a habit of overpromising and    . Tesla constantly misses on production     remember the Model X SUV?   and deliveries, and in a similar way,   SolarCity misses on bookings and installations. Bookings, for   one, were down 33% in Q2 from the same time last year. ’ ’   Come to think of it, both companies face major regulatory   challenges as well. Just as Tesla has auto dealers to contend   with, SolarCity has to face state regulators. It moved its   business out of Nevada after officials passed rules that raised   prices on solar panels. ’ ”   And then there’s . But who cares about  ” ”   Now, if you’re a Tesla shareholder and you’re new to this, then   you should probably also know that SolarCity is big on financing.   The company just revamped its loan program to give more potential   customers access to its products. The problem is, those new loans   are at rates so attractively low that they hurt the company’s   margins. ” ’   From analysts over at Credit Suisse (emphasis added): ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’Elon Musk, the CEO of Tesla Motors, just hung. ..’