’  ’ ’   The lead Donald Trump gained over Hillary Clinton after the   terror attack in Orlando was erased in a new poll that puts the   presumptive Democratic presidential nominee ahead by 13. 3 points. ’ ’   The   poll released Friday showed that 46. 6% of   likely American voters supported Clinton while 33. 3% supported   Trump, the likely Republican nominee. ’ ’   Another 20. 1% said they would support neither candidate. The poll   was conducted this week. ’ ”   Trump closed some of the gap between him and Clinton after the   Orlando attack earlier this month, cutting Clinton’s lead to 9   points. ” ”   Trump’s image as a strong leader who will fight terrorism (he   renewed his calls for a ban on Muslims entering the US, which he   says will help prevent future attacks) apparently resonated with   voters after a gunman entered a gay nightclub in Orlando and   killed 49 people on June 12. The gunman pledged allegiance to the   terror group ISIS during the attack. ” ’’ ’   But Trump seems to have lost his   boost as his   campaign has suffered a turbulent week. ’ ”   He  Corey Lewandowski, who had earned a   reputation as a hothead with little experience on the national   political stage. He was then beset by reports of  that paled in comparison to   Clinton’s. ” ”   In    Trump’s campaign ramped up its   operation, sent out   its first fundraising email, and professionalized some of the   brash billionaire’s tweets. ” ’   Meanwhile, Republican leaders, including House of Representatives   Speaker Paul Ryan and Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker, continued   to express reservations about their new   who has   angered some in the party with his fiery rhetoric. ’ ’   Ryan and Walker both said over the past week that they felt   Republicans should follow their ”conscience” when deciding to   support the party’’s likely nominee, instead of urging party   members to support him. ’ ”   The   poll only captured some of the voter reaction   to Britain’s decision in Thursday’s referendum to exit the   European Union, a move that some pundits say suggests Trump’s   insurgent candidacy has tapped into a broad and powerful   antiglobalization wave sweeping Western countries. ” ’   The poll was conducted online and included interviews with 1, 201   likely voters in all 50 states. It has a credibility interval, a   measure of accuracy, of 3. 3 percentage points. ’ ’The lead Donald Trump gained over Hillary. ..’