’  ’ ”   For about a month now, something magical has happened in my life:   I’ve started running. ” ”   Lots of people pick up new healthy habits all the time, so it’s   not altogether shocking. ” ”   But even as I’ve drifted in and out of other exercise regimes     and told myself over and over that this is the run that   will start a repeating pattern   I’ve never managed to run   consistently for even a couple of weeks. ” ”   So what changed? I don’t have more time these days. (If anything   I have less.) All I’ve done differently is played with my phone. ” ’   Specifically, I download a fairly popular app, . ’ ”   I’d been wondering what exactly it is about Runkeeper that helps   me overcome my overwhelming running inertia when I began reading   up on the science of forming habits. ” ”   Here’s the thing about habits: They’re very simple in structure.   You have a craving. You get a cue. Your brain kicks into a   programmed routine. . (. ” ’   Some habits are small, like spotting a candy jar, cuing you to   reach in and eat a candy. Some are big and important, like the   daily tasks of caring for a child. ’ ”   But what strings the successful ones together is that      series; you stick with them because when you   don’t your cravings intensify. ” ”   In the past when I’ve tried to start running, I’ve only worked on   developing a routine. Run x miles a day. Run y miles   a week. There was neither a consistent cue, nor a consistent   reward. ” ”   I’ve used Runkeeper to solve that problem for me. ” ”   When I signed up, I selected a particular training regime,   designed to get you from beginner level to running a     minute 10k in about four months. There’s a set schedule, and the   night before a run day, my phone pings me with a gentle   notification: Remember your run tomorrow! That’s a cue,   making me aware of a small unfilled slot on my Runkeeper   schedule. ” ”   I’m the kind of person who will read a book because my     tells me I’ve read fewer this month than last, so that unfilled   slot forms a kind of craving. So I run, and keep running day   after day, following this little habit routine even when I run   into obstacles. (My first day out, I tried to run 2 miles and   collapsed in a heap after 1. 66 miles.) ” ’  ’ ’   After a successful run, Runkeeper gives you a little reward     notifications like ”Congrats” and letting you know any new   personal records you set. If you do particularly, they send you a   little email as well. ’ ”   It’s all meaningless to you, but for me it created the      cycle I needed to get over the initial   challenges of starting running. And now the new, realer rewards   accrue: The way my body feels after running; the extra weight   I’ve put on since college dropping off, and those little run   slots filling up. ” ”   And when I miss runs, the app creates a craving. This weekend,   for example, I was too busy to get a run in. And while my knees   don’t mind the break, my mind can’t wait to file this article so   I can head back and fill that little slot. ” ’   Habits are crazy. ’ ’For about a month now, something magical has. ..’