’  ’ ”   Much has been written about the growing income inequality in the   United States. But another kind of gap is also widening between   us, and it’s at the dinner table. ” ’   Overall, Americans are . In the decade   leading up to 2012, the number of people eating a poor diet fell   from around 56 percent to under 46 percent. ’ ”   But if you separate people out by income, it’s a different story.     Americans are eating better than ever   swapping   fruit juice for whole fruits, replacing refined grains with whole   grains, and eating tons of nuts   while the   group has   improved much more modestly. ” ’   In other words, much like our politics and our incomes, the way   Americans eat is becoming more and more divided. ’ ”   Over the years, researchers have surveyed people to find out what   they’re eating, asking them to report every little detail of the   previous 24 to 48 hours’ worth of meals. From that, they’ve   plotted various trends    amount of   potatoes eaten, etc. ” ”   To get a glimpse of the overall healthiness of people’s diets,   scientists used a rating system from the American Heart   Association. The AHA’s ideal diet includes lots of fruits,   vegetables, nuts, whole grains, and fish, while minimizing sugar,   salt, processed meat, and saturated fat. ” ’   People who meet less than   of these goals were   classified as having a poor diet; those in the range up to 80   percent were classed as having an intermediate diet. ’ ’   At the highest echelon, the elusive ”ideal” diet is achieved by   less than 2 percent of the population   few enough that the   researchers weren’’t able to study it in detail. ’ ’  ’ ’   What they did find was that changes in diet are very much a class   affair.   people   those making less than around $30, 000   for a family of four   still eat poorly. Just over 38 percent of     people eat an intermediate diet, versus 62 percent of     people (making more than around $69, 000 for a family   of four). ’ ’   Put differently, ”almost twice as many people at low incomes have   poor diets compared to people at the highest income level,” said   Dr. Dariush Mozaffarian, professor of nutrition at Tufts   University and the lead author of the  published in JAMA on   Tuesday. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Here’s how some of the trends break down: ” ’   What could be driving this trend? Food cost is undoubtedly part   of the reason, but it doesn’’t fully explain it, Mozaffarian said.   ”There’’s a perception that healthier foods cost more, and part of   that is people think of Whole Foods and other places, but there   are plenty of healthy foods in a grocery store that are   relatively inexpensive. And certainly almost any food in a   grocery store is less expensive than going and getting it    .” ’ ’   Other, less tangible factors therefore also play a role. ”There’’s   a time cost to buying foods and preparing them yourself. There’’s   a knowledge barrier,” Mozaffarian said. ’ ’   In addition, junk food and  are especially   heavily marketed to   people. ”Marketing has gotten   better and more subtle and more insidious,” Mozaffarian said. ’ ’  ’ ’   Mozaffarian thinks that many policies could help close the diet   gap, but would especially like to see reform of the Supplemental   Nutrition Assistance Program, or SNAP (formerly the Food Stamps   program) to include incentives for eating healthy. Right now,   people can buy any kinds of food with SNAP except hot foods or   prepared foods. ’ ’   The   people monitored in the survey are all     so reform of that program would likely have a big   effect. ’ ’   Other ways to improve the diet among the poor, Mozaffarian   suggests, include taxes on junk food, healthy school lunch   programs, making healthy food available at work sites, and   regulatory limits on trans fats, added sugar, and sodium. ’ ’   ”As the economy in general has worsened, people who are worse off   have suffered the most and we see that with food too,” he said. ’ ’Much has been written about the growing. ..’