’  ’ ”   Hassan Whiteside has become one of the NBA’s best centers,   seemingly out of nowhere. ” ’   Two years ago, the    big man looked finished in the   NBA. After two quiet, disappointing seasons with the Sacramento   Kings, Whiteside was demoted to the   and then moved   overseas to play in China and Lebanon. ’ ’   Then, in 2014, the Miami Heat signed him to a small   deal   as a reclamation project of sorts. Whiteside made the most of the   opportunity. ’ ”   When given the playing time, the   Whiteside suddenly became   a   machine, swallowing up rebounds, scoring on easy   baskets, and swatting opponents’ shots away from the rim. In     Whiteside averaged 14 points, 11 rebounds, and an     3. 7 blocks per game while shooting over 60% from the   field. ” ’   The gaudy numbers, combined with his upside and athleticism, have   made Whiteside one of the premier free agents this offseason.   Days before free agency begins (players and teams can begin   talking on July 1) Whiteside spoke to reporters and provided an   awesome perspective on negotiating what will likely be a giant   contract. ’ ’’ ’   ”I find it flattering because in my past, I was trying to call   those teams, and now it’’s the other way around,” Whiteside said   (). ”It’’s a flattering experience, and   I’’m thankful for this opportunity.” ’ ’   According to Wallace, the Heat have a slight advantage in     Whiteside, with the ability to offer him a contract   worth $98 million over four years. That would give Whiteside a   yearly salary of about $22 million   a significant raise over the   $990, 000 he made last season. ’ ”   It’s not the first time Whiteside has hinted at his wild journey   to NBA prominence. Following his sudden breakout with the Heat in     Whiteside noted in a postgame interview that not long   ago, he had been  trying to get private workouts with   NBA teams. ” ”   As Whiteside noted on Sunday, he’ll explore all of his options.   Though the Heat can pay him slightly more than any team, he’s   only one part of what figures to be a busy offseason in Miami.   The Heat also plan to chase Kevin Durant, and they must settle on   a new deal with Dwyane Wade. These two pieces of business could   push Whiteside to the back burner, meaning he could bolt Miami.   Whiteside hinted at this on Sunday. ” ’   ”I really don’’t think it’’s about loyalty,” Whiteside said of   signing a new contract. ”I think it’’s just about [finding] the   best situation for myself. I didn’’t say [Miami] wasn’’t the best   situation, but we’’re going to see what happens. It’’s not like I’’m   really counting the Heat out or counting on another team. It’’s   just open.” ’ ”   Regardless of where he ends up, Whiteside is one of the     stories in the NBA   a player who worked himself back into the   folds   and he’ll reap the rewards this July. ”