’  ’ ’   That ”Leave” won Thursday’’s referendum has been seen as . ’ ’   Fully 51. 9% of  to begin the process of removing Britain from the EU,   marking the first time any member of the EU has voted to leave. ’ ’   This result    and, in turn, financial   markets   which had long discounted that the Leave camp would   ultimately prevail. ’ ’   Leaving the EU was supposed to be a vote into the abyss. ’ ”   And in many ways, the  and  has confirmed the predictions of a   vacuous future for the   economy in the EU. No one   knows what happens next, and if there’s one thing markets hate,   it is uncertainty. ” ’   In general! In general! Volatility traders actually love   uncertainty. ’ ’   The big lie, of course, is that we had anything like certainty   about the future to begin with, and that only an idiot could   prefer the unknown over defending the status quo. ’ ”   In hindsight, it is now obvious that David Cameron committed   political suicide by allowing this referendum to take place. The   vote was simply the result of a  and actually   honoring the pledge shows the brashness of Cameron’s belief that   elite consensus would rule the day. ” ’   It was a failed attempt at reinforcing the view that people are   either in agreement with your argument or ignorant enough that   they need to be told only what is good for them in order to fall   in line with the ”house view.” ’ ’   So an  now is to argue that Leave voters were   simply too ignorant to understand what they were voting for. ’ ’   It came quickly. Demonizing the Leave camp were  showing that Google search   results for ”What is the EU?” spiked in the hours surrounding the   results of the vote being revealed. ’ ’  ’ ’   Leave voters, it seems, were not as stupid as we would like them   to be. ’ ’   Voting for a future of obvious unknowns is what you do when the   other option is presented with more bad faith than the decision   to choose chaos. ’ ’   As my colleague  UK voters   were made well aware of what they were voting on in warnings from   authorities ranging from the IMF and the UK Treasury to the OECD   and numerous major banks. ’ ’   This was not an ignorant vote. ’ ’   Of course, underpinning the Brexit vote and the rise of Donald   Trump is  that threatens to more   fundamentally fracture the UK and US more than any negative   economic consequences. ’ ’   The politics of change have also emboldened the politics of   racism: There are no clean hands. ’ ’   The US election, not coincidentally, has been framed as a battle   between something like good and evil, smart and dumb, right and   wrong. ’ ’   Former Wall Street trader turned photojournalist Chris Arnade   wrote in May that we ought to stop treating Trump’’s supporters as   ”.” Arnade uses a simple options model to explain how   those voting for Trump   much like those who voted to Leave     could be motivated by their circumstances. ’ ”   If you’re screwed in the US or UK   a union worker who has either   lost their job or seen wages go nowhere in the wake of mass     or a state employee facing certain pension   reductions   Leave and Trump alike are call options on the   future. ” ’   Your downside risk is that nothing changes. But the upside, if a   new direction for government actually does change   something, provides a chance for something better. ’ ’   It is this chance that   to many   is worth voting for. ’ ’   Here’’s Arnade’’s graph: the further left on the ”Elitism” scale   you are, the lower your perceived ”Value” is in society. Voting   for Trump, like voting for Leave, provides the chance of   moving your distribution further to the right of this scale. ’ ”   And if it doesn’t work, oh, well   you were going to be stuck on   the low end anyway. ” ’  ’ ’   But this ”call option” on the future is, in many cases, really   just a hope that the US or UK will return to some imagined     read: whiter   past where   jobs and GDP growth were   abundant. ’ ’   In a post on Friday,  a   think tank,   wrote that while many people attributed the support for Leave to   a recent drop in incomes, it was more accurately the   manifestation of   trends. ’ ’   Simply put, poorer voters voted for Leave. This is not to say   that one can argue that voting Leave is a decision made on sound   economic grounds   i. e. an argument that the UK is better off,   economically, separated from Europe than more integrated with it.   ! ’ ’   But it seems that poorer voters chose something   different over more of the same. ’ ’   Bell writes (emphasis added): ’ ’   This is the key chart from Bell, which shows that areas with   lower incomes were more likely to vote to leave while a chart of   income changes from   revealed no correlation between an   increase in votes for or against a Brexit. ’ ’  ’ ’   In the US, this picture is a bit fuzzier. ’ ”   As  the median Trump voter is wealthier   than the median US household and the median Clinton voter. That   Trump’s support is   then, is a myth  is becoming a myth. ” ”   In this light, an   argument that Trump voters are   motivated by better economic prospects looks more tenuous. But   voter motivations, as we’ve all found out in this current cycle,   are fluid. ” ’   Most of the discourse around why voting to leave the EU is crazy   seems to center on the idea that things will indeed change, but   that all of those changes will be bad. And it may be so. ’ ”   But in Arnade’s construction, this doesn’t matter to the average   Leave or Trump voter. They are already screwed. ” ”   And, so much like Leave voters in the UK, Trump voters have been   fingered as merely ignorant and racist, as voters who don’t want   a better future for the US but just want to see the world burn. ” ’   For many of these voters, however, the world is already burning.   Voting is the only power they have left. ’ ’   ”Make America Great Again” plays on all of the worst parts of   Trump’’s base. ”Make American Anything Else” is less catchy, and   it’’s quite obvious why this doesn’’t appear on hats. ’ ”   But this latter construction, in my view, more accurately   captures what’s driving Trump in the US, and what just drove the   UK out of the EU. ”