’  ’ ”   Last week,  the troubled   leasing company that is   run by Tesla CEO Elon Musk’s cousin Lyndon Rive. ” ’   And on Monday, SolarCity said it had formed a committee of   independent directors to evaluate the deal. ’ ’   That is because Musk is the largest single shareholder of both   companies and the chairman of SolarCity. ’ ’   Holy conflict of interest! ’ ’   Actually, Musk and Rive have said they will recuse themselves   from voting on the deal. ’ ”   Anyway, SolarCity is a $3 billion bite for Tesla in an     transaction that would add   brace yourself   over $3 billion in   debt to Tesla’s balance sheet. ” ”   If this looks like a SolarCity bailout   the company has seen its   market cap, now $2. 25 billion, sawed in half since last year     then that’s because it is. ” ”   The deal might look outwardly vexing, and much of the analysis   has suggested that Tesla is doing something wrong here,   but it’s not. It’s actually following through on promises that   Musk has made over and over for the past half decade. ” ’  ’ ’   So why is Tesla doing this? ’ ”   It certainly doesn’t seem to be to enhance shareholder value.   Tesla stock dived when the news broke. ” ’   But it has never been clear that Tesla cares much about   shareholder value. ’ ”   Rather than please investors or vindicate the ratings and target   prices of Wall Street analysts, the   maker is playing   a longer game. The stock just helps it get there by providing a   way to raise capital, as it did recently and also last year, and   to be used as a form of super currency to sustain Musk’s vision   of a world freed from   dependency. ” ’  ’ ”   SolarCity is integral to that vision, even if it’s Musk’s most      interest   it’s hard to compete with the car of   the future and a SpaceX mission to Mars. ” ”   And that’s what everybody is missing here. ” ’   With this bid, Tesla is trying to become what Musk probably   wanted it to be all along: an integrated holding company   providing   solutions. ’ ’   If the SolarCity deal goes through, then Tesla will be a   carmaker; a battery maker, thanks to the Gigafactory being built   in Nevada; an energy storage company, thanks to Tesla Energy,   unveiled last year and selling residential battery packs; and a   solar finance firm. ’ ’   Put all that together under one roof and you get a company that   can sell or lease you a      lifestyle. ’ ”   Plus, Musk rescues his SolarCity investment in the process. But   there’s nothing surprising here in the master plan. Musk has   always thought of the companies he’s involved with as a single   mega investment. It makes sense to use the stock of one to keep   another one going. ” ’   Yes, all that debt could eventually be a major problem for Tesla.   It is already burning cash like crazy as it tries to go from   building 50, 000 cars a year in 2015 to building 500, 000 annually   by 2018. And SolarCity is incinerating cash. ’ ”   So that debt load that Tesla would be taking on isn’t going   anywhere. Shareholders could rightly accuse Musk of hanging a $3   billion anchor around Tesla’s neck. ” ”   Of course, shareholders could also vote against the deal, or if   they don’t think loading Tesla up with another company’s debt is   a good idea, then they can sell their shares. ” ”   If Tesla can really save the world, then from Musk’s perspective,   taking on all that debt has been worth it. ”