’  ’ ’   It all started with a Saab cupholder. ’ ”   I happen to own a 2004 model, a family car with a turbo (don’t   ask). Way back in December, before everyone started wondering   whether 3D printing was on the deadpool, I tested out a  for a few weeks. It was a   heady time printing out Darth Vader replicas from  and experimenting with my own   concoctions. ” ’   Then, I tried to print something I actually needed, something   that would save me a few hundred dollars or a trip to the   junkyard. ’ ”   As my dad used to say, that’s when I noticed there was trouble   with a capital T. ” ’   As recently as May 2015, . Last Friday, Newsweek . Maybe   that should be: It shattered the ice, squished it into the   ground, and sprayed it off the showroom floor with a hose. ’ ’’ ’   MakerBot recently whittled down its workforce, and the stock   price of its parent company,  has plummeted. It   is as if someone sucked all of the momentum out of the maker   industry and pulled the plug and then bought a new plastic plug   at Walmart. ’ ’   What happened? I often think of that Saab part as a good model of   what went wrong. (By the way, I promise not to use any metaphors   for 3D printing from now on.) For starters, I really wanted to   print the cupholder. I even asked a   Thingiverse   designer for help and was going to pay him, but he said the part   was too complex. Wait, what? Too complex for a     designer? He even used the word ”hassle” in his email back to me.   The part is not something you’’d use on a NASA spaceship. It does   have a spring attached to two pieces of plastic that fold   together. ’ ”   What about a water bottle cage for my bike? Shouldn’t be a big   problem. There are plenty of designs. But when I actually printed   one of them, it broke on my first ride. Also, a much more   important piece of data: A water bottle cage costs about $4 at   Amazon. com, but even a relatively short spool of filament costs   $65. The math doesn’t compute. And, it doesn’t make sense to   spend the time. ” ”   From that experience, I knew something was wrong. As the Newsweek   article notes, you can print only so many Yoda heads before you   wonder why you bought the device. A 3D printer won’t magically   terraform anything right before your eyes, and it even has   problems with slightly complex car parts. I even remember my   nephew, who is working as an intern for me this year, saying the   industry needs to figure out this problem. It’s fun for a while,   but eventually you realize you need to do something practical   after paying almost $1, 000 for the product. ” ’   I believe there are a few lessons for anyone following trends.   Here they are. ’ ”   One of the main reason 3D printing was mostly about the hype was   due to the fact that many of the people writing about the field   had never actually printed anything. Ironically, it’s because   it’s so complex. I’ll admit that it took me a few days to print   out my first Darth Vader toy, especially since there’s some   trickery with how you connect your laptop over   to even make   your first Yoda head. ” ”   And, when I printed out a Ford Mustang, it took me a few tries   before the final model looked anything like the car I remember   from my youth. Even then, it had one tire that looked flat. This   did not turn me into a superfan. I’m still optimistic and love   the idea of local manufacturing, and the market is still ripe. I   stand by  in Inc. magazine. But   I’m not exactly on the fast train anymore. It’s more as if I’m on   the bandwagon, bouncing along over rough terrain and mindful of   how slow a bandwagon usually goes. ” ”   3D printing isn’t totally dead, but it was always a little   suspect. Even in the early days, I remember asking questions   about the cost of materials, the practical applications for small   business, and why anyone would want to print  or in . ” ”   Some of the answers were acceptable, some were more like the   wizard behind the curtain pulling a lever and hoping you don’t   notice. If you were paying attention to what people said about 3D   printing back in 2014, you know it was always speculative. The   official Gartner prediction was that the 34, 010 printers sold in   2012 would somehow turn into 2. 1 million units sold by 2018. That   won’t happen. It’s really hard to sell a product that . ” ’   This is the toughest one for me, because when you want to find   out about a trend, the default approach is to look for people who   are insiders. Analysts, designers, 3D printing   companies, and makers all had wonderful things to say about 3D   printing in 2014. ’ ’   I remember talking to a Ford representative way back in 2012 or   2013 during a plant tour when he showed me the     prototyping machines the company used to make   actual car parts. He was an outsider. ’ ’   I still remember the look he gave me when I asked about 3D   printing. It wasn’’t derision. It was more that he was challenging   me to look around. They were using     prototyping machines that make actual car parts. They had dozens   of people working in that department. That person most likely had   the best viewpoint on   3D printing. His view was   ”wait and see,” and that’’s still true. At the time, I doubt Ford   was ready to install a bunch of MakerBot machines that would help   it make the parts for the next Fusion. It was and still is a   burgeoning industry. That’’s the only way to view it. ’ ’   I mentioned the   cage. One huge lesson about any new   trend is you need to get out a calculator and do the math. 3D   printing used the ”razor and razor blade” approach to building an   industry. Ask anyone who has decided to put a 3D printer in a   back closet about the one thing that ruined the experience and   you will hear about the expenses. ’ ’   You have to add up the costs of a new product and the materials   and compare that to your current process. Is making a plug   cheaper than buying one at Walmart? That can be difficult, but   maybe the math will reveal something. I see this same problem   with virtual reality headsets. You can make one out of  or you can pay $799   for the . Someone needs to do some of the math   here. What do the games cost? What do the parts cost? How   rewarding is the experience compared to what you can do if you   ? How many companies are making the games? ’ ”   Before you jump on any bandwagon, it’s best to take a close look   at the seating, the wheels, and the bumps in the road. ”