”   You never know what you’ll see when you’re driving around San   Francisco. ” ”   And during a drive over the Golden Gate Bridge on Saturday, we   spied this   vehicle. The   setup on the   roof makes it obvious that this van has a special mission. Anyone   who has seen one of Google’s   car prototypes will   recognize some of the hardware. ” ’  ’ ”   Let’s get a little closer. Among the collection of gadgets on the   roof are the spinning  laser sensors   often used for   cars. There are also cameras on the   roof. And there’s a large antenna above the rear wheel. Yet this   car has no obvious markings or insignia to identify it   not even   a license plate. ” ’  ’ ’   The obvious questions are: ’ ’   One knowledgeable source in the    industry reckons   that this is an Apple mapping car. ’ ’   Indeed, the van, a Ford Transit, looks very similar to  suspected of being   affiliated with Apple. ’ ’   The company has special mapping cars that are loaded with sensors   and cameras, but these have often been clearly identified as   Apple Maps cars   and are usually Chrysler vans. ’ ’   Apple has a  that lists where its Apple Maps vehicles are rolling   throughout the world at any given time. The site lists San   Francisco as one of many locations for the period of June 20   through July 3. But . .. the list of locations has been virtually   unchanged for the past year. ’ ’   It is also reportedly working on   cars, though the   company has never officially acknowledged doing so. ’ ’   These appear to be cameras pointed at different angles: ’ ’  ’ ’   According to our source, the gear on top of the car appears   complex enough for a mapping vehicle, but not necessarily for a     car. ’ ”   The driver also has her hands on the wheel. That doesn’t in   itself disqualify it as a   car, of course, but it’s   telling. A straight drive on the freeway like this would   typically be prime territory for a car to show off its autonomous   driving skills. ” ’  ’ ”   There was also a copilot in the passenger’s seat who was holding   his smartphone up and appeared to be taking pictures or   measurements of some kind: ” ’  ’ ”   Here’s a view of the front of the car. Notice the     camera on the roof: ” ’  ’ ’   Apple declined to comment about the van. ’ ”   If you have any insight or theories about this car, we’d love to   hear from you. ”