’  ’ ”   Witness accounts are pouring in following the  at Istanbul’s international airport that   left at least 36 dead on Tuesday. ” ’   The witnesses described a scene of terror and chaos as the   attackers fired automatic weapons and detonated their explosives. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tWitnesses to the Istanbul airport explosions tell  what they saw and heard  ’ ’   ”We heard gunshots when we were checking in. I grabbed my family   and ran,” Jim Hyong Lee of South Korea . ”Someone waved us into the prayer room   and hid us there until the police came.” ’ ’   One traveler at the airport, Laurence Cameron,  he had just gotten off an airplane to find a scene   similar to ”a disaster movie.” ’ ’   ”It was just a massive crowd of screaming people. Some were   falling over themselves. A poor chap in a wheelchair was just   left, and everyone just rushed to the back of the building, and   then people ran the other way and no one really seemed to know   what was going on,” he told CNN. ’ ’ ’ ’”It looked. ..like a disaster movie” Laurence Cameron, who witnessed the terror attack aftermath,    ’ ”   Another witness told CNN that authorities herded her and about 30   other people into a women’s prayer room. She said when they were   released into the main terminal hall, she saw bloody boot marks   on the floor. ” ’   ”There was a lot of blood,” she . ”There was so much glass on the floor they were   scuffing it aside so we didn’’t slip.” ’ ’   ”Chaos and blood and people running around and anxious and   worried. It was just horrible,” witness Judy Favish . ’ ’   She said authorities huddled her and other travelers in a   basement cafeteria for more than two hours after the explosions.   Some of the people she was with had been shot and were bleeding,   she said. ’ ’   ”There were a couple of people who had really bad panic attacks,   and were literally convulsing they were so anxious,” she told CBS   News. ”And then another woman, I think she must have had a heart   attack, again from anxiety.” ’