’  ’ ’   The Brexit jobs exodus may be about to begin. ’ ”   Vodafone is considering moving UK roles across the channel   following Britain’s vote to leave the European Union, and Goldman   Sachs has warned that banks could do the same, according to   reports. ” ” that Richard Gnodde, cohead of the   Investment Banking Division of Goldman Sachs, wouldn’t rule out   moving some or all of the bank’s 6, 500 UK staff members to Europe   when asked about Goldman’s   plans at the paper’s CEO   Summit on Tuesday. ” ’   Gnodde said ”every outcome is possible,” according to the report,   and added: ”If passporting was totally removed, we would have to   adjust our footprint and where people were located.” ’ ’   Under the current arrangement, banks with a UK presence have the   right to operate in any of the other countries in the     EU bloc under   rules that allow them to ”passport”   their licence across the continent. Once the UK leaves the EU,   these rights are likely to disappear, meaning banks will have to   relocate if they want to continue operating across the continent. ’ ’’ ’   A Goldman Sachs representative contacted Business Insider to say   that Gnodde was speaking more generally about the banking   industry rather than Goldman specifically. The person said in an   emailed statement: ”As we have already communicated to our   employees, there is no immediate change to the way we conduct our   business or where we conduct our business.” ’ ’   Goldman Sachs CEO and chairman Lloyd Blankfein also said in an   emailed statement: ’ ’   While Gnodde’’s comments on Goldman’’s plans are far from concrete,   the  that it   expected banks to ”start strategically implementing parts of   their contingency plans rather than wait for trade and service   arrangements to be agreed.” ’ ’   JPMorgan has said it may  and both HSBC and Morgan Stanley are believed to be   planning to move 1, 000 staff each to the EU, though Morgan   Stanley denied recent reports. . ’ ’   Away from banking, Vodafone is also threatening to move jobs out   of the UK. The telecoms giant late on Tuesday said it could   consider moving its headquarters out of the UK because a ”very   large majority of our 462 million customers, 108, 000 employees,   and 15, 000 suppliers are based outside the UK.” ’ ’ the company said in a statement: ”The UK’’s   membership of the European Union has been an important factor in   the growth of a company such as Vodafone. Freedom of movement of   people, capital, and goods are integral to the operation of any     business as are single legal frameworks spanning all   member states.” ’ ’   Vodafone says no firm decision has been made, as the framework of   any potential   trade deal is unclear. But if the   company does end up relocating its headquarters, it could mean a   huge number of job losses. Vodafone employs 13, 000 across Newbury   and London, . ’ ’   [UPDATE: An earlier version of this article   quoted a Times report that Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley had     office space in Frankfurt as an insurance policy.   Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley have both denied this.] ’