’  ’ ’   US companies have seen their  for the past . In fact, the corporate sector has been in an   . ’ ’   Predictably, this has weighed on the outlook for these firms.   Downgrades in earnings expectations became a constant, and things   got ugly when Wall Street  to start the year. ’ ’   It may be encouraging then to know that the same US firms that   seemed so downbeat just a few months ago appear to have changed   their tune. ’ ’ pointed out that in the second   quarter  —   for the first time since FactSet started keeping track   of the data  —   more S&P 500 companies issued expectations for   earnings over the next fiscal year that were above the average   analyst estimates than below. ’ ’   ”The second quarter of 2016 marks the first time that the   percentage of companies issuing negative EPS guidance for the   current fiscal year is below 50% at the end of a quarter since   FactSet began tracking this metric in Q2 2012,” Butters wrote in   a note to clients on Wednesday. ’ ’  ’ ’   The strength of these improving outlooks is across a variety of   sectors in the market. ’ ’   ”Five sectors have recorded a decrease in the number of companies   issuing negative EPS guidance for the current fiscal year since   the end of last quarter, led by the Health Care ( ) and   Industrials ( ) sectors,” Butters said. ’ ’   ”On the other hand, seven sectors have recorded an increase in   the number of companies issuing positive EPS guidance for the   current fiscal year since the end of last quarter, led by the   Health Care (+13) and Industrials (+9) sectors.” ’ ’   Additionally, the raw number of companies in the S&P 500   making negative announcements is on track to be its lowest since   2012. ’ ’   ”After hitting a record high number in Q1 2016 (96) the number   of companies issuing negative EPS   for Q2 2016   has declined by 15 compared to the first quarter,” the note said. ’ ’   ”If 81 is the final number for the second quarter, it will mark   the lowest number of companies issuing negative EPS guidance for   a quarter since Q4 2012 (79).” ’ ’   Typically, companies announce negative guidance before earnings   to prepare investors and attempt to mitigate the impact of the   disappointing news on the stock. ’ ”   To be fair, the guidance is lifting itself off the mat from an   incredibly low level. It’s not hard to improve EPS when it’s   garbage to begin with. The trend, however, is encouraging that   more companies are expecting growth. ”