’’ ”We knew that before  the social network  which ultimately couldn’t afford to compete.” ”Thanks to a  we now know that there were actually five corporations at least interested in buying LinkedIn  —   though we don’t know which, beyond Salesforce and the eventual winner, Microsoft.” ’The filing goes into some detail into how the   deal came together.’ ’Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella and LinkedIn CEO Jeff Weiner met in February 2016 to discuss how they could work better together, at which point the notion of a merger was first floated.’ ’Starting in March 2016, Weiner met with executives from three more companies, referred to only as ”Party B,” which  ”Party C,”  and ”Party D,” which Recode says was Facebook.’ ’It sounds like Microsoft and Party A, which was almost certainly Salesforce, were locked in an early bidding war: Party A bid $160 to $165 per share of LinkedIn in a deal that was around half stock and half cash. Microsoft came back with a bid of $160 per share in cash. Party A eventually responded with $171 per share in a   split; Microsoft bid $172 per share in cash.’ ”The two upped their bids repeatedly. Party A’s final offer was $85 in cash plus an amount of company stock for a total value of $200 per share. Microsoft ultimately won with a bid of $196 in cash per share. If Microsoft somehow welches on the deal, then it’s on the hook for a $725 million termination fee.” ’On May 3, 2016, Party B (Google) told LinkedIn that it decided no longer to bid and instead pursue a commercial partnership with the company. Parties C and D (Facebook) dropped out as well, apparently sensing that the bidding was going to be too rich for them.’ ”It’s hard to say who the other wannabe purchasers were, especially given that the .” ”But Party A was almost certainly Salesforce, given its dogged determination to stay in the game even after Microsoft kept ratcheting up the price. Also telling is the fact that it insisted on paying with stock  —   Salesforce doesn’t have Microsoft’s deep pockets.”