’  ’ ”   It’s going to get  soon, and there are a few companies   that have more reason to worry than others. ” ’   Matthew Mish, a credit strategist at UBS, has been . ’ ’   The combination of lower profits, higher borrowing costs, and   tighter lending standards has him  to hit the      market soon. ’ ’   This wave, however, will not treat each sector equally, according   to Mish. ’ ’   The  by     defaults, and it  to feel the pain. ’ ’   ”Bottom line, while no mosaic is ever clear and complete, these   trends infer a series of shallower, more   default   waves which will likely be concentrated in ( ) financials,   industrials, tech, retail and healthcare,” wrote Mish in a note   to clients on Thursday. ’ ’   ”Investors should be more cautious and selective when allocating   to these industries given defaults tend to be clustered and fat   tailed.” ’ ’   Mish argued that the  is not just important to look at going   back to the financial crisis, but all the way back to 2003 after   the tech bubble burst. ’ ’   ”Historically, debt growth has been one potential harbinger of   future stresses (e. g. telecommunications in the late 90s)  —   a   topic we have discussed in prior research,” said Mish. ’ ’   ”However, one of the facets of the last credit cycle is that   while peak default rates hit   highs, cumulative default   rates were remarkably shallow in the context of the economic   environment. Why? In our view, central banks cut the cycle short,   eased policy aggressively and liquefied the credit system.” ’ ’   Thus, credit growth back to 2003 is an important metric and the   five sectors that Mish mentioned experienced a boom in debt   issuance. For example, the finance industry has increased its   outstanding   debt by 720% since 2003 and tech has seen   a 420% jump in that timeframe. ’ ’  ’ ’   This debt is just the ”kindling for the fire” according to Mish.   As we’’ve noted before, the concern isn’’t total debt issued, it is   the ability of those indebted companies to pay back what they   owe. With profits on the slide for these sectors, it will be   harder for them to keep up with their obligations. ’ ’   Mish points to the current trends in speculative grade debt,   the most risky bonds, and argues that they are signaling a   large problem for borrowers is on the way. ’ ’   Almost every sector Mish identified as a problem area has   seen a serious uptick in speculative grade defaults in the past   few months, which signals that the default wave is going to   come crashing down on the five sectors in the near future. ’ ’   For example, in financials the speculative grade default rate was   7. 2% at the end of April, according to data from Mish. Just   six months ago the rate was sitting at 1%. In industrials, it   climbed to 2. 6% from 0. 9% six months ago. ’ ’   The combination of high levels of issuance and deteriorating   profitability will end up in pain   for retail, ’