’  ’ ’   The airbag did not deploy in the  while   Autopilot was activated, according to the Florida Highway Patrol   accident report obtained by Tech Insider. ’ ’   Joshua Brown, a    Canton, Ohio, resident, was driving   his 2015 Tesla Model S in Williston, Florida, when the accident   occurred. A truck driven by Frank Baressi, 62, of Tampa, made a   left turn in front of the Tesla driving east on US Route 27. ’ ’   Tesla wrote in a  that   the Autopilot system did not notice ”the white side of the   tractor trailer against a brightly lit sky, so the brake was not   applied.” ’ ”   The Tesla’s roof then passed under the trailer, with the bottom   of the trailer striking the windshield. The Tesla then drove   off the road and smashed through two fences before hitting a   power pole. ” ”   According to the report, the Tesla’s airbag did not deploy at any   point during the accident. ” ’   Florida Highway Patrol spokeswoman Kim Montes confirmed to Tech   Insider that the airbags did not deploy, but said that there   could be any number of reasons why they were not enacted. ’ ”   The top of the car was sheered off, but the car continued to   drive underneath the semitruck, so it’s possible that the missing   components affected the airbag system, Montes said. But the   agency is still investigating the accident and has not shared an   official reason on why the airbags were not deployed, she said. ” ’  ’ ”   Airbag malfunctions happen in all vehicles, and we can’t be sure   that this is a broader Tesla or Tesla Autopilot problem or if   it’s just a   incident. But airbags do typically   deploy on impact. ” ”   It should be noted that the truck’s airbag did not deploy at the   time of the accident, either. ” ”   A Tesla representative told Tech Insider that the company   won’t be sharing any information outside of its blog post on the   accident. ” ’   ”We can’’t confirm any details about the customer or specifics of   the accident out of the respect for privacy,” the   representative said. ’ ’   Montes also said that they found a DVD player in Brown’’s car. The   driver of the truck, Baressi, told The  that Brown was ”playing Harry Potter on the   TV screen” at the time of the crash, but Montes could not confirm   Baressi’’s claims. ’ ’   ”This crash remains under investigation at this time. The   department will provide conclusions and more information at the   completion of the traffic homicide investigation,” the Florida   Highway Patrol representative told Tech Insider. ’ ”   The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration has opened a   preliminary evaluation into the performance of Autopilot in   response to the fatal accident. The NHTSA did not respond to Tech   Insider’s request for comment on the Tesla airbag not deploying. ”