’  ’ ’   I will confess to having cruised past recent headlines that   warned against consuming raw cookie dough. Don’t eat raw eggs? I   mean obviously. That’s like food safety 101, right up   there with using a meat thermometer as you cook. ’ ’   The thing is: The latest warnings from the Food and Drug   Administration are about contaminated flour —  not just raw   eggs —  meaning that you shouldn’t taste the batter before you bake   it, even when it’s  . ’ ’   “Flour, regardless of the brand, can contain bacteria that cause   disease,” the FDA said in  this week. That’s because the grain   that flour is derived from comes directly from the field; and   usually isn’t treated to kill bacteria. “So if an animal heeds   the call of nature in the field, bacteria from the animal waste   could contaminate the grain, which is then harvested and milled   into flour. ” ’ ’   This isn’t just theoretical. A federal investigation recently   found bacteria in flour that has been linked to dozens of cases   of E. coli. From the FDA: ’ ’     General Mills conducted a voluntary recall of 10 million pounds     of flour sold under three brand names: Gold Medal, Signature     Kitchen’s, and Gold Medal Wondra. The varieties include     unbleached,   and   flours. Flour has a     long shelf life, and many people store bags of flour for a long     time. If you have any of these recalled items in your home, you     should throw them away.   ’ ’   The agency emphasizes that parents and other caregivers should   also be cautious when letting children make crafts with   flour —  homemade play dough, for instance.   should do   their best to avoid letting kids sneak a bite of the dough, and   everybody should wash their hands after handling it. Relatedly,   the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is advising   restaurants not to give raw dough to customers, as some of the   recalled flour was sold to establishments that offers kids hunks   of dough to play with while they’re waiting for their meals. ’