’  ’ ’   Mohammed bin Zayed   the crown prince of Abu Dhabi,   ordered the merger of   investment firms Mubadala   Development Company PJSC and International Petroleum Investment   Co. (IPIC). ’ ’   As reported on 29 June 2016, the merger would be overseen by a   joint committee led by deputy prime minister Sheikh Mansour bin   Zayed, and will include energy minister Suhail Mohamed Faraj    . ’ ’   ”The merger of the two companies augments the investment   advantages and economic revenue for Abu Dhabi, and creates a body   capable of achieving the highest level of integration and growth   in multiple sectors, including energy, technology and space   industry,” according to the state news agency. ’ ’   Both Mubadala and IPIC have significant and diversified foreign   investments. Mubadala functions in a variety of industries   including healthcare, technology, utilities, and aerospace.   Mubadala Petroleum, meanwhile, has operations in the Mideast Gulf   region, southeastern Asia, Kazakhstan, Tanzania and Libya, and is   the largest foreign United Arab Emirates oil producer with   400, 000 barrels per day. ’ ”   IPIC is more concentrated in the energy sector and has several   shares in upstream, midstream and downstream companies including   Austria’s OMV, Cepsa of Spain, the Sumed pipeline company in   Egypt, and Canada’s Nova Chemicals. ” ’’ ”   Argus Media detailed that Abu Dhabi’s energy sector is in the   middle of  as the country’s   leadership works to streamline its diverse group of companies.     oil company Adnoc recently overhauled its management,   selecting Sultan   as the new chief executive in February,   and making appointments to several other executive posts   throughout its subsidiary and operating companies in recent   months. ” ’   The merger between Mubadala and IPIC could be the precursor to   another consolidation involving a   energy firm with   foreign operations: Taqa. Abu Dhabi last October established a   new international investment arm, Adnoc International, which   could become the preferred entity for its overseas ambitions. ’ ’     ’