’  ’ ’   Cruise control has been around for decades. Even the cheapest   cars and trucks are equipped with it. ’ ’   At any given time, most of the traffic on a freeway could be   running on cruise control. ’ ’   At Business Insider, the transportation team checks out many cars   that go beyond the typical   features and hint at a   brave new world of vehicles that can largely drive themselves. ’ ’   This is the current state for cruise control  —   the     technology of which is usually called ”adaptive” cruise control,   meaning that the car will slow down and speed up and maintain   defined following distances based on what the driver sets. ’ ”   Tesla’s Autopilot feature, which the federal government is   investigating because of its  in May, goes well   beyond adaptive cruise control and allows for a degree of     driving and collision avoidance. ” ”   It’s the most advanced    technology on the market   that’s being used by customers, although carmakers such as   General Motors have their own versions under testing. ” ”   We’ve also tried Autopilot, and it is impressive  —   but of course,   as the Florida accident shows, not perfect. ” ”   As far the advanced   technologies now widely   available in the market go, I have to admit that, while they have    I can’t get completely   comfortable with them. ” ’   These systems usually combine adaptive technology  —   powered by   sensors, sonars, and cameras  —   with   warnings and     aspects, such as emergency braking if the car   detects an imminent collision. ’ ’  ’ ”   In practice, unless there’s very little traffic on an open   highway, I tend to be on and off with advanced cruise control. I   set it and let it do its thing, but then when traffic congestion   appears, the roadway gets bumpy or uneven, or there’s   construction or repairs to the road going on, I tap the brakes,   turning it off, and I go right back to driving the car. ” ’   This is especially the case for cars with manual transmissions. ’ ”   The bottom line is that although I’ve seen the technology perform   as it should, I can’t accept that it can handle anything beyond   worry free,   driving. ” ”   We’re not talking about     stuff here, either.   These are the absolute best and most sophisticated     technologies available, and with pretty much all of my test cars,   I treat them exactly as I’ve treated cruise control for almost 35   years of driving. ” ’  ’ ’   What I think this means is twofold. ’ ”   First, I’m old school. There’s a level at which I like   to drive the car and stay continuously engaged. ” ’   But second, the current tech is incremental. I would describe it   as   plus. It points more dramatically than I think   most folks understand at a   future. But we have a   long way to go before the human driver can be taken out of the   picture. ’ ’   Tesla has a good safety record so far with Autopilot, which   was introduced last year: only one known fatality. ’ ”   And if the technologies  —   Autopilot and otherwise  —   progress, as   they certainly will, then I’m convinced that full autonomy will   arrive in the next few decades, on highways first and later in   cities and towns. ” ”   But for now, even with the best advanced cruise control the auto   industry has to offer, I’m not prepared to relax the human skills   I’ve developed from a lifetime of driving. ”