(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the  .) Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1. The Trump administration took shape as more cabinet choices emerged. The Transportation Department, the focus of the  ’s pledge to spend billions on rebuilding infrastructure, will be headed by Elaine Chao, above, a former labor secretary who is married to the Senate’s top Republican, Mitch McConnell. Steven Terner Mnuchin, a financier with deep roots on Wall Street and in Hollywood but no government experience, is expected to be named Treasury secretary as soon as Wednesday, people close to the transition say. Tom Price, a   Republican congressman from Georgia, is the choice to head the Department of Health and Human Services, meaning that a chief critic of President Obama’s health care initiative will oversee its future. Here’s the full list of Cabinet choices. The push for a vote recount is quietly advancing, even though reversing Donald Trump’s win seems unlikely. ____ 2. On Twitter, Mr. Trump’s subject of the day was flag burning, possibly in response to a Fox News segment about a protest at a Massachusetts college. He proposed that flag burners could be stripped of their citizenship. The Supreme Court has already ruled that such a penalty is unconstitutional. ____ 3. Only a handful of people survived the crash of a chartered plane in Colombia, which killed most of the members of a wildly successful Brazilian soccer team and journalists traveling with them. “The shock is so intense that it’s nearly impossible to remain calm,” one of Brazil’s most eminent soccer journalists said. ____ 4. Firefighters are still battling the remnants of wildfires in Tennessee that forced thousands of people to evacuate their homes in Gatlinburg, in the foothills of the Great Smoky Mountains. Hundreds of buildings were damaged, and three deaths were reported. Video shot by residents shows flames lining the edge of the highways used for evacuations. ____ 5. Scientists reported that the recent coral   at the Great Barrier Reef, a World Heritage site off the coast of Australia, was the worst ever recorded. Warm waters this year bleached and weakened the coral, and environmentalists say the government is not doing enough to protect the reef. ____ 6. President Park   of South Korea offered to step down in a televised address. But opposition lawmakers said they would still insist on a vote to impeach Ms. Park, who was named a criminal suspect in an   scandal. ____ 7. As many as 2, 000 veterans from diverse backgrounds plan to serve as human shields for Dakota Access Pipeline protesters near the Standing Rock Sioux Reservation in North Dakota. The veterans’ plan may run up against the Army Corps of Engineers’ plan to close off access to the protesters’ campsite by Dec. 5, as well as an evacuation order for the protest site issued by the governor, who cited “anticipated harsh weather conditions. ” ___ 8. With Fidel Castro gone and Mr. Trump threatening to undo President Obama’s détente with Cuba, what’s next for the island? Much of the warming relationship was accomplished through executive action, which could be reversed. But analysts say it would be legally difficult, as American companies have already invested millions to enter the market. ____ 9. News organizations are examining their use of the term   to refer to the   white nationalist movement that came into focus as part of Mr. Trump’s base. Above, an   gathering in Washington this month. Critics say the term is a euphemism and legitimizes hateful ideologies. The New York Times is encouraging its reporters to explain what the term means, rather than use it as a label. ___ 10. Finally, we’d like to help you reclaim one of the joys of winter. America’s inexorable march to processed food turned chicken soup into something to buy, not make. But our food writer offers some expert advice  —   don’t toss the skin!  —   on how to make a fragrant, golden, savory version sure to keep you warm. (Click here to go straight to the recipe.) Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of the briefing should help. Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p. m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a. m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a. m. Sundays. Want to look back? Here’s last night’s briefing. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes. com.