’  ’ ’   The marijuana industry faces a huge problem:  will touch cannabis cash.  ’ ’   Even though big bucks are on the line  —   Colorado is predicted to   pull in more than  from taxes on marijuana sales in 2016 alone  —     marijuana is still classified as a  at a the federal level. ’ ”   Most banks don’t want to deal with that kind of risk,   forcing dispensaries to operate on an   ” ’   ”There’’s still a great stigma in the banking community around   marijuana. It’’s palpable,” says  a   cofounder of  a   startup that provides hardware and software for     solutions for marijuana companies. ’ ’   That makes everything from paying taxes to tracking sales   exceedingly difficult. ’ ”   Beyond the difficulties of paying taxes in pure cash, serious   security issues arise. It’s not uncommon for dispensaries to    to ferry around their employees. ” ’   Enter Jane. The company was founded by Foster and Yves   Yon and is led by David Ellerstein, the current CEO. The   idea came to Foster after watching some Netflix documentaries   about marijuana prohibition.  ’ ’  ’ ’   Jane kiosks are placed in dispensaries, and customers can   simply come in, place their orders on the touch screen (or from   an app on their phone) insert their cash, and take a receipt to   pick up their product. The company has  ’ ”   The cash is held securely within the machine, and the   receipts allow dispensaries to precisely track payments and   inventory. It’s basically like a marijuana ATM machine  —   in   reverse.  ” ’  ’ ”   In addition cash solution, another part of Jane’s mission seeks   to rectify the cannabis industry’s problems of retail shrinkage  —     the loss of inventory between what’s been recorded and what’s   actually there.  ” ”   Any retail store that deals with cash, whether it’s a shoe store   or a liquor store, will lose a certain percentage of their   inventory to shrinkage, according to Foster. Shrinkage amounted   to a  for retailers across the country in 2015,   according to the National Retail Federation.  ” ”   The loss of inventory and money due to shrinkage creates a huge   problem for the marijuana industry, particularly because it’s   an   industry, according to Foster. ” ’   Though Foster couldn’’t provide specific numbers, he estimated   that dispensaries lose ”well over 6%” of their inventory annually   due to shrinkage. ’ ’   This is often through employees giving their friends discounts,   or outright stealing product, according to . ’ ’   ”W” ’ ’   Kiosks run a bit steep    —   nd though the company has faced some challenges   convincing dispensaries to lease them, ’ ’   The government has made some moves to fix the banking   issues. For example, Senate Appropriations Committee  to allow banks to handle cannabis cash. But it   will likely be a long time until   businesses are   banked.  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   With Jane, banks can simply go online, look at a dispensary, and   see all the cash coming in. Furthermore, banks can actually   see these transactions tracked back to the original seed number   that’s been brought into inventory, according to Foster.  ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Dispensary owners in Colorado especially have already reaped the   benefits of Jane. ’ ’   ” ’ ”   It’s a big step toward bringing financial maturity to the   marijuana industry.  ”