’  ’ ”   The White House on Sunday condemned the Baghdad bombings in which   a refrigerator truck packed with explosives killed more than 140   people and wounded 200, saying the attack only strengthened the   US’s resolve to confront the Islamic State terrorist group. ” ’   ”We remain united with the Iraqi people and government in our   combined efforts to destroy ISIL,” the White House statement   said, using an alternate name for the Islamic State, which is   also known as ISIS or Daesh. ’ ’   At least 140 people  —      ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   A wave of suicide bombings targeting marketplaces and   recreational areas in Baghdad’s Shiite districts killed and   maimed hundreds of civilians throughout May, as Iraqi forces were   approaching the   city of Mosul further north. ” ”   The attacks prompted the government, against Washington’s advice,   to refocus its   campaign to Fallujah, from which Abadi   believed many of the bombers were coming. ” ’     Iraqi forces  —   aided by the       Popular Mobilization Units  —   dislodged ISIS from   its stronghold in Fallujah last month in what was seen as a major   victory against the jihadist group. ’ ”   Sunday’s attack, however, was the deadliest ISIS attack in Iraq   since the group split from Al Qaeda in 2013. It was the third   major attack claimed by the extremist group in less than a week. ” ’  ’ ”     people died after three   suicide bombers   detonated themselves in Istanbul’s Ataturk Airport last Thursday,   and 20 foreigners were killed early Sunday morning when armed men   affiliated with ISIS attacked a restaurant in Dhaka, Bangladesh. ” ”   The attacks on tourist and civilian targets may signal a shift in   ISIS’ tactics as the group continues to lose territory. ” ’   Patrick Martin, an Iraq expert at the Institute for the Study of   War, said last month that as ISIS suffered battlefield losses, it   would begin to shift its emphasis away  —   at least in the short   term  —   from territorial gains. And it would move toward more   terrorist and   tactics. ’ ’   ”They will first and foremost begin to emphasize resurging in   recaptured areas, as they did in Karbala in early June,” Martin   . ’ ’   The group took responsibility for a car bombing on the first day   of Ramadan that killed 10 people in Karbala, in Hayy     just under 2 miles from a Shiite shrine. It was the   first successful ISIS attack in Karbala since October 2014,   according to the . ’ ’   ”Within Iraq, we will see them shift more toward attacking   civilian targets” as they lose territory, Martin said. ”And   outside the country, there will likely be a renewed emphasis on   sending foreign recruits to Libya,” where the group has been   trying to establish a foothold. ’ ’ Alex Lockie contributed to this report. ’