’  ’ ’   Recent history has been a long and volatile ride for gold   investors. ’ ’   The recent Fed decision  …     ’ ’   The “Brexit” leave vote  …     ’ ’   Today I want to take a look at gold  —   and in particular  …    the case   AGAINST the Midas metal  …     ’ ’   Starting from a low of about $250 per ounce in   gold   staged a spectacular rally of over 600% to about $1, 900 per   ounce, by August 2011. Unfortunately, that rally looked   increasingly unstable toward the end. ’ ’   Gold was about $1, 400 per ounce as late as January 2011. Almost   $500 per ounce of the overall rally occurred in just the last   seven months before the peak. That kind of hyperbolic growth is   almost always unsustainable. ’ ’   Sure enough, gold fell sharply from that peak to below $1, 100 per   ounce by July 2015. It still shows a gain of about 350% over 15   years. But gold’s lost nearly 40% over the past four years. Those   who invested during the 2011 rally are underwater, and many have   given up on gold in disgust. For longtime observers of gold   markets, sentiment has been the worst they’ve ever seen. ’ ’   Yet it’s in times of extreme bearish sentiment that outstanding   investments can be found  —   if you know how and where to look.   There’s already been a change in the winds for gold so far this   year. ’ ’   And using complex dynamic systems analysis, a trusted colleague   of mine and I have developed a new thesis and strategy for   profiting in the gold market. ’ ’   The takeaway? Do not buy another ounce of gold until you read   what I have to say. ’ ’   Today, I show you three main arguments mainstream economists make   against gold  …     and why they’re dead wrong. ’ ’   The first one you may have heard many times. “Experts” say   there’s not enough gold to support a global financial system.   Gold can’t support all the world’s paper money, its assets and   liabilities, its expanded balance sheets of all the banks and the   financial institutions in the world. ’ ’   They say there’s not enough gold to support that money supply,   that the money supply is too large. That argument is complete   nonsense. It’s true that there’s a limited quantity of gold. But   more importantly, there’s always enough gold to support the   financial system. But it’s also important to set its price   correctly. ’ ’  ’ ’   It is true that at today’s price of about $1, 300 an ounce, if you   had to scale down the money supply to equal the physical gold   times 1, 300 that would be a great reduction of the money supply.   That would indeed lead to deflation. But to avoid that, all we   have to do is increase the gold price. In other words, take the   amount of existing gold, place it at, say, $10, 000 dollars an   ounce, and there’s plenty of gold to support the money supply. ’ ’   In other words, a certain amount of gold can always support any   amount of money supply if its price is set properly. There can be   a debate about the proper gold price, but there’s no real debate   that we have enough gold to support the monetary system. I’ve   done that calculation and it’s fairly simple. It’s not   complicated mathematics. ’ ’   Just take the amount of money supply in the world, the amount of   physical gold in the world, divide one by the other, and there’s   the gold price. ’ ’   You do have to make some assumptions, however. For example, do   you want the money supply backed 100% by gold, or is 40%   sufficient? Or maybe 20%? Those are legitimate policy issues that   can be debated. I’ve done the calculations for all of them. I   assumed 40% gold backing. Some economists say it should be   higher, but I think 40% is reasonable. ’ ’   That number is $10, 000 an ounce. In other words, the amount of   money supplied given the amount of gold if you value the gold at   10, 000 dollars an ounce is enough to back up 40% of the money   supply. That is a substantial gold backing. ’ ’   But if you want to back up 100% of the money supply, that number   is $50, 000 an ounce. I’m not predicting $50, 000 gold. But I am   forecasting $10, 000 gold, a significant increase from where we   are today. But again, it’s important to realize that there’s   always enough gold to meet the needs of the financial system. You   just need to get the price right. ’ ’  ’ ’   Regardless, my research has led me to one conclusion  —   the coming   financial crisis will lead to the collapse of the international   monetary system. When I say that, I specifically mean a collapse   in confidence in paper currencies around the world. It’s not just   the death of the dollar  …     or the demise of the euro  …     it’s a   collapse in confidence of all paper currencies. ’ ’   In that case, central banks around the world could turn to gold   to restore confidence in the international monetary system. No   central banker would ever willingly choose to go back on a gold   standard. ’ ’   But in a scenario where there’s a total loss in confidence,   they’ll likely have to go back to a gold standard. ’ ’   The second argument raised against gold is that it cannot support   the growth of world trade and commerce because it doesn’t grow   fast enough. The world’s mining output is about 1. 6% of total   gold stocks. World growth is roughly 3 —  4% a year. It varies, but   let’s assume 3 —  4%. ’ ’   Critics say if world growth is about 3 —  4% a year and gold is only   growing at 1. 6% then gold is not growing fast enough to support   world trade. A gold standard therefore gives the system a   deflationary bias. But that’s nonsense, because mining output has   nothing to do with the ability of central banks to expand the   gold supply. ’ ’   The reason is that official gold, the gold owned by central banks   and finance ministries is about 35, 000 tons. Total gold,   including privately held gold, is about 180, 000 tons. That’s   145, 000 tons of private gold outside the official gold supply. ’ ’   If any central bank wants to expand the money supply, all it has   to do is print money and buy some of the private gold. Central   banks are not constrained by mining output. They don’t have to   wait for the miners to dig up gold if they want to expand the   money supply. They simply have to buy some private gold through   dealers in the marketplace. ’ ’   To argue that gold supplies don’t grow enough to support trade is   an argument that sounds true on a superficial level. But when you   analyze it further you realize that’s nonsense. That’s because   the gold supply added by mining is irrelevant since central banks   can just buy private gold. ’ ’   The third argument you hear is that gold has no yield. It’s true,   but gold isn’t supposed to have a yield. Gold is money. I was on   Fox Business with Maria Bartiromo recently. We had a discussion   in the live interview when the issue came up. I said, “Maria,   pull out a dollar bill, hold it up in front of you and look at   it. Does it have a yield? No, of course it has no yield, money   has no yield. ” ’ ’   If you want yield, you have to take risk. You can put your money   in the bank and get a little bit of yield  —   maybe half a percent.   Probably not even that. But it’s not money anymore. When you put   it in the bank, it’s not money. It’s a bank deposit. That’s an   unsecured liability in an occasionally insolvent commercial bank. ’ ’   You can also buy stocks, bonds, real estate, and many other   things with your money. But when you do, it’s not money anymore.   It’s some other asset, and they involve varying degrees of risk.   The point simply is that if you want yield, you have to take   risk. Physical gold doesn’t offer an official yield, but it   doesn’t carry risk. It’s simply a way of preserving wealth. ’ ’   I believe the primary way every investor should play the rise in   gold is to own the physical metal directly. In fact, I always say   that at least 10% of your investment portfolio should be devoted   to physical gold  —   bars, coins and the like. ’