’  ’ ’   Stocks are looking expensive  —   even . A number of measures, from      to ”,” all   point to a frothy market. ’ ”   According to Michael Lebowitz at  this idea holds   especially true when you examine the valuation of companies’   stocks to how much they’re actually selling, also called the      ratio, or   ratio. ” ’   ”At its current record level, the   ratio leads us to one of   two conclusions: 1) Investors are extremely optimistic about   future economic and earnings growth or 2) Investors are once   again caught up in the frenzy of an equity bubble and willing to   invest at valuations well above the norm,” Lebowitz . ’ ’   ”Either way, the sustainability or extension of the current     ratio to even higher levels would be remarkable.” ’ ’   Currently, according to the note, the S&P 500’’s   ratio is   ”now 2. 50 standard deviations from the median” and roughly equal   to the level just before the bear markets of 2000 to 2002 and   2007 to 2008. ’ ’  ’ ’   There are two important things to understand in order to get why   this elevated   ratio will cause troubles, Lebowitz said. ’ ’   As revenue expectations rise, so too should stock prices. And   investors will pay more for a company that is expected to grow   revenues by 10% than one that will grow revenue by 2%. ’ ’   ”Purchasing a mutual fund, ETF, or an equity security is   essentially buying a claim on a potential future stream of   earnings cash flows,” . ’ ’   ”The odds, therefore, of a rewarding investment are substantially   increased when a company, or index for that matter, offering   substantial market growth potential is purchased at a lower than   average   ratio. Value investors actively seek such situations.   Logically one would correctly deduce that   ratios should tend   to follow a similar directional path as expected revenues.” ’ ’   Additionally, sales and earnings follow incredibly closely with   GDP growth. So expected sales increases should track along the   same path as expected economic growth, . With   economic growth projected at around 2% as far as the eye can see,   revenue growth should also follow those muted expectations. ’ ’   Given those two factors, the current lofty   ratio for the   S&P 500 is either a reflection that investors are seriously   encouraged by the possibility of strong revenue growth above the   current trend, or they are stuck in a bubble fervor fueled by a   lack of other places to invest. ’ ’   ”Perhaps the lack of viable options for investors to generate   acceptable returns, has them reluctantly ignoring the risks they   must assume in those efforts,” Lebowitz wrote. ’ ’   ”If that is indeed the case, then one should also consider the   possibility that the next correction will extract more than a   pound of flesh in damage.” ’