’  ’ ’   By Nate Raymond ’ ’   NEW YORK (Reuters)   The FBI in New York City has undisclosed   probes into about 30 suspected insider trading schemes, the   agency said, in a sign investigators remains focused on building   cases despite a court ruling that could curtail such   prosecutions. ’ ’   The number of probes, which has not been previously reported,   comes amid a resurgence of insider trading cases, with   prosecutors in Manhattan charging 11 people so far in 2016, up   from just four in 2015. ’ ”   The Federal Bureau of Investigation’s New York office has about   50 ongoing insider trading investigations, about 30 of which have   yet to result in   charges, a spokeswoman for the   agency said last week. ” ’   The probes follow a 2014 ruling by the 2nd U. S. Circuit Court of   Appeals that authorities have said could allow some individuals   to avoid prosecution and that has already led to charges being   dropped or reversed for 14 defendants. ’ ’’ ”   John Casale, assistant special agent in charge of the FBI’s   complex financial crimes unit in New York, acknowledged the   ruling could prevent some people from being charged in certain   circumstances. ” ’   But he said his agents have not had to close any     investigations as a result of the ruling, which reversed the   convictions of hedge fund managers Todd Newman and Anthony   Chiasson. ’ ’   That decision said that to prove insider trading, prosecutors   must establish that a trader knew the tipper received something   in exchange for the tip, like a quid pro quo involving money, and   that the benefit was of ”some consequence.” ’ ’   The court rejected the proposition that merely a friendship could   constitute a benefit to the tipper. As a result, Casale said   agents are increasingly focused on showing the tipper received a   monetary or other tangible benefit. ’ ’   ”There’’s never been a slowdown in our process of thinking about   cases,” Casale said in an interview last week. ”This was a hurdle   we had to overcome.” ’ ’   It is unclear whether the FBI and prosecutors will be able to   ultimately bring charges in those 30 undisclosed investigations.   Such probes can often be closed without charges being brought. ’ ’   The FBI would not comment on the details of the undisclosed   probes and did not provide information on how advanced they were.   Casale said some involved multiple individuals. ’ ’   The law of insider trading meanwhile remains in flux. The U. S.   Supreme Court in January agreed to review an appellate ruling out   of California, and could use that case to clarify the definition   of insider trading. ’ ’   The FBI has been pursuing insider trading cases with, among   others, Manhattan U. S. Attorney Preet Bharara, whose office has   since 2009 announced charges against 107 people, and secured   convictions of 81 individuals. ’ ’   Those charged this year include famed Las Vegas sports gambler   William ”Billy” Walters, who has pleaded not guilty, and hedge   fund manager Sanjay Valvani, who worked at Visium Asset   Management LP and committed suicide earlier this month following   his indictment. [L1N19D0PT] ’ ”   Casale said he was optimistic that the FBI’s undisclosed probes   would result in more individuals being charged, despite the 2nd   U. S. Circuit Court’s ruling. Still, he acknowledged that the   decision posed additional hurdles. ” ’   ”It may take more stones to overturn than it would have in the   past,” he said. ’ ’   (Reporting by Nate Raymond in New York; Editing by Noeleen Walder   and Andrew Hay) ’