’  ’ ’   Donald Trump said in a Tuesday statement that ”our adversaries   almost certainly have a blackmail file” on Hillary Clinton after   FBI Director James Comey announced it was certainly ”possible”   hostile actors gained access to her private email account. ’ ’   The presumptive Republican nominee said Comey laid out a   ”detailed case” of how Clinton ”compromised the safety of the   American people by storing highly classified information on a   private email server with no security.” ’ ’   ”He confirmed that her email could easily have been hacked by   hostile actors, and confirmed that those she emailed with were   hacked,” he said. ”Our adversaries almost certainly have a   blackmail file on Hillary Clinton, and this fact alone   disqualifies her from service.” ’ ’   Comey announced Tuesday that the FBI would  be filed against Clinton, despite   characterizing her conduct handling classified information as   ”extremely careless.” ’ ’   ”The final jury will be the American people, and they will issue   the verdict on her corruption, incompetence, and bad judgment on   November 8,” Trump said. ’ ’’ ’   Trump also said Comey ”revealed” that Clinton ”lied when she said   that she did not send classified information.” ’ ’   ”The FBI Director confirmed that over 100 emails were deemed   classified at the time they were sent, including emails   classified as top secret,” he said. ’ ’   Trump alleged ”it was no accident” charges were not filed against   Clinton ”the exact same day as President Barack Obama campaigns   with her for the first time.” ’ ’   ”Folks  —   the system is rigged,” he said. ”The normal punishment,   in this case, would include losing authority to handle classified   information, and that too disqualifies Hillary Clinton from being   president.” ’ ’   Trump added: ”But because of our rigged system that holds the   American people to one standard and people like Hillary Clinton   to another, it does not look like she will be facing the criminal   charges that she deserves. Bill Clinton didn’’t accidentally run   into the attorney general on the airport tarmac last week in   Phoenix.” ’ ”   Attorney General Loretta Lynch maintained last week that she   chatted with the former president about grandchildren and golf,   not the FBI’s probe into his wife’s handling of classified   information. ” ”   Lynch is expected to accept the FBI’s recommendation not to file   charges against Clinton in the email probe. ”