’  ’ ’   Agreeing to be a contestant on ABC’’s   ”The Bachelorette” or ”The Bachelor” might seem   like an easy commitment. All you have to do is throw some of your   belongings in a suitcase, fly to Los Angeles and go on a number   of dates  —   maybe even find love. Easy peasy, right? Wrong. ’ ’   Besides having to compete for the someone’’s attention   with 25 other people, as well as having every one of your   interactions broadcasted on television  —   including but not   limited to eating a   —   both the ladies   and the competing on ”The Bachelor” have to dish out a hefty   sum of cash prior to arriving to the California mansion,   as  previously reported in January. ’ ’   Take  for example: the      news anchor who competed for Ben Higgins’’ heart on the    season of ”The   Bachelor.” She supposedly  ”like, $40, 000 on clothes” and also   became known as the girl . ’ ’   But, what about the dudes who are trying to find love on ”The   Bachelorette?” Are they spending just as much as the women even   though they don’’t need a sparkly,   dress for every single   rose ceremony? Can’’t they just simply throw on the same suit each   week?  ’ ’   As it turns out, they too often have to drop some cash  —     although, not nearly as much. ’ ’  ’ ’The men require less clothing than women:   Contestants need outfits for ten weeks of rose   ceremonies in addition to dates that can range from a casual day   usually involving a to a romantic dinner followed by   a private . ’ ’   ”[Packing] is one of the hardest things to   do!”  said in an interview. ”I had a   bunch of people over to my house to help me pack and pick out   clothes.” ’ ’   While the ladies, need around ten dresses (unless they plan on   swapping) men are told to only bring   suits with ”a few   different shirts, and ties so that they could be mixed and   matched” Joshua Albers, who vied for Kaitlyn Bristowe’’s heart   along with Higgins on s, said in   an interview.  ’ ”Men aren’t completely off the financial   hook. Glamour,” ’   As seen in the  as long as it fits into their allotted   two suitcases, the men can bring as many as they want. ”I think I   have like six suits,”  a telecom  who was eliminated at week three said   in the video. ”I was only told to bring two.” ’ ’   Albers did, in fact, bring two suits, along with three shirts and   three ties. He estimates that he spent about $1, 000 for the   suits, including having them tailored.  ’ ’   Others, like Higgins, simply recycled the pieces that they   brought. ”I always   suits to the rose ceremonies,” he   said. ”If I didn’’t   a whole suit I would switch up the   jacket with pants or maybe go  . The guys often share   suits as well if they are the same size.”  ’ ’   ” ’ ’But the ladies are still dropping more cash.   ”Women’’s gowns are far more than a guys suit,” Albers said. ”A   lot of the guys have to wear suits for their career already, so   they didn’’t have to buy much of anything unless they wanted. I’’m   a welder, so I had nothing remotely close to what’’s required for   a rose ceremony.” ’ ”   But it’s not just clothing that women are spending more on. Prior   to the show, many  get extensions, acrylics and spray tans,   while the guys often focus on their hair.  ” ’   Although the women have to buy more, many are in fact  clothing prior to the show for   publicity. Additionally, ”The Bachelor” has become   a launching point for the ladies’’ careers, specifically in the   fashion world. Back in May, Bristowe  a clothing line, while   Dorfman  a   with Southward Apparel   back in September. Besides clothing collections,   and  are just some of the previous   bachelorettes to have since launched style related blogs.   ’ ’  ’ ’ How much do the clothes even   matter?  ’ ’  ’ ’   It might be a factor, but that doesn’’t mean it affects the   outcomes of the shows. ”The funny thing is, Ben [Higgins] and all   of the other guys don’’t give a sh*t! !! I bet you they don’’t even   notice a difference,” Jillian Harris, the lead of season 5 of   ”The Bachelorette,” previously wrote on her . (You’’re saying Lauren B. ’’s     dress didn’’t leave a lasting impression? !)  ’ ’   ”I mean its the look good, feel good, date good kinda thing   right?” Higgins said. ”I do think clothes help a person look   better and feel better so in that since they may be more   confident going on dates or being themselves.” ’ ’   So, will ”The Bachelor” or the ”The Bachelorette” cost an   arm and a leg? Yes, likely so. But chances are you’’ll find love   or, at least, people will be talking about you on Twitter on   Monday nights until the next season comes around and you’’re   forgotten about.  ’ ”   Plus, you get a gift bag. And who doesn’t love a gift bag? ” ’ Read more: •  •  •  ’