”A newly leaked picture of the Apple’s supposed next iPhone released by  and spotted by  seems to confirm the majority of rumors we’ve heard so far.” ’9to5Mac assures that TechTastic. nl has a good track record when it comes to iPhone leaks, citing the fact that it has accurately leaked images in the past of packaging and components from previous iPhones.’ ’’ ”The leaked picture shows Apple’s next iPhone with redesigned antenna stripes that wrap around the top and bottom of the phone rather than across its back, which is consistent with almost every .” ”The only other detail that suggests we’re looking at Apple’s next iPhone is the extra large camera, which seems bigger than the camera you’d find on the iPhone 6 or 6s. ” ”Indeed, rumors and leaked schematics of Apple’s next iPhone suggest that the regular model with a 4.  screen will have a . The larger Plus model, which will probably have a 5.  screen, is said to have a dual camera with two different lenses, like the LG G5 and Huawei P9 have.” ’’ ”The general look of the supposed iPhone in the leaked picture is also consistent with rumors that Apple’s next iPhone will look very similar to the current iPhone 6 generation. Those claims align with rumors that Apple’s next iPhone is a minor update of the iPhone 6s rather than an entirely new iPhone generation. ” ”Rumors from Japanese news site Nikkei also suggest that because it’ll supposedly be such a minor update.” ’Nikkei’’s report lines up nicely with  who’’s well plugged into the Apple community, and claims that the iPhone Apple will release in 2017 will have major updates, like with a fresh redesign and significantly updated features. Gruber suggests that Apple is breaking its usual ”tick tock” release cycle because the company is planning something special for the iPhone’’s 10th anniversary in 2017.’ ”As likely as it seems that the image above shows Apple’s next iPhone, nothing is certain until we see the new model in Tim Cook’s hands at Apple’s fall iPhone event in September.”