’  ’ ’   Not long after news of a  took over   social media, another deadly   shooting played out   in Minnesota. ’ ’   Video began circulating Wednesday night showing what appeared to   be the aftermath of a shooting in the Minnesota suburb of Falcon   Heights. ’ ’   Local CBS affiliate WCCO reported that the St. Anthony Police   Department . ’ ’   The incident reportedly involved a St. Anthony police officer,   and a man named Philando Castile, who was inside a car with a   woman and child, according to WCCO. ’ ’   The footage, which was  but later removed,   shows Castile bloodied and slumped over inside the car. An   unidentified police officer can be seen pointing a gun at the man   from outside the vehicle. ’ ’   Relatives told  and  that Castile, 32, later died at Hennepin County   Medical Center. ’ ’  ’ ’   A copy of the video showing the police encounter was . ’ ’   ”He was trying to get out his ID out of his pocket and he let the   officer know he had a firearm,” a woman in the car says on the   cell phone video. ”He was reaching for his wallet, and the   officer just shot him in his arm.” ’ ’   The officer can be heard screaming ”I told him not to reach for   it!” ’ ’   The woman recording the video said they were initially stopped   for ”a busted tail light.” The Minnesota Bureau of Criminal   Apprehension was on scene investigating, Haller reported. ’ ’   The woman and child inside the car were apparently unharmed. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tThe man shot by St. Anthony police was inside this car.  ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tMinnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension arrives at scene of St. Anthony PD   shooting.  ’ ’   The incident happened less than two days after police in   Louisiana came under fire for the shooting of    Alton   Sterling. The Justice Department  that it is now investigating that case. ’ ’   These latest shootings follow a long list of fatal encounters   involving police. More than 500 people have been killed in     shootings in 2016, according to an investigation   . ’ ’   Civil rights leaders, politicians and community activists have   called for greater oversight of police agencies nationwide,   citing the need for body cameras for officrs, and pushing for   independent reviews of police killings. ’ ’   Within the past year,  related to deadly   shootings than at any time in the last decade, but convictions   have been few and far between. ’