’  ’ ”   The fatal shootings of  and  in recent days have rekindled the national   debate about police officers’ use of deadly force, and how to   interpret the video footage captured of the incidents. ” ’   The deaths  —   Sterling in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, on Tuesday and   Castile in Falcon Heights, Minnesota, on Wednesday  —   were both   partially filmed then widely shared on social media. ’ ’   But while such videos frequently galvanize activists and sustain     movements such as Black Lives Matter, many experts are   skeptical that they will have a meaningful effect when it comes   to prosecuting the officers involved. ’ ’   ”I see a social movement fueled by social media in a way that I   never have in my life before,” said Jody Armour, a law professor   at the University of Southern California who specializes in   racial justice. ”But I’’m not necessarily sanguine about the   prospect of these videos resulting in more convictions.” ’ ’   Prosecutors haven’’t had a strong track record in bringing about   convictions  —   or even indictments  —   in   deaths.   Video of incidents has not seemed to improve prosecutors’’ ability   to convict officers. Eric Garner, for instance, was filmed in   2014, gasping ”I can’’t breathe,” while a New York police officer   placed him in the chokehold that led to his death. A Staten   Island grand jury declined to indict the officer, Daniel   Pantaleo. ’ ”   Similarly, Tamir Rice’s fatal shooting death was caught by video   surveillance in 2014. The    boy was shot by police   officers in a Cleveland park while he was holding a toy gun with   its orange safety tip cut off. The footage shows the officers   arriving in a cruiser and firing shots at Rice within seconds of   approaching. Neither officers involved were indicted. ” ’   It’’s nearly impossible to predict how juries will respond to the   videos, according to Armour, who says that juries made up of   white Americans or   black Americans have a difficult   time looking past the ”halo effect” surrounding police officers. ’ ’   ”These videos may not be enough to overcome that presumption in   favor of many law enforcement officers,” Armour said. ’ ’  ’ ’   That bias in favor of the police could be changing, however, at   least among the greater public. ’ ’   An April Gallup poll showed that  about   race relations in the US. That number was at 17% just two years   ago. The percentage of Americans satisfied with how     are treated has dropped sharply in recent   years, falling to . And an increasing percentage of   Americans think   are treated ”less fairly” in   interactions with police  —   . ’ ’   Armour believes that the data indicates a shift in public   perception, with average Americans less likely to view police   shootings as a result of ”black people behaving badly” and more   willing to give shooting victims the benefit of the doubt. ’ ”   But in both Sterling’s and Castile’s cases, the weight given to   video footage  —   no matter how persuasive it seems  —   ultimately   comes down to the prosecutors, according to Delores     a professor at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice. ” ’     faults district attorney Dan Donovan for not bringing   a motivated enough case against Pantaleo in the death of Garner.   The outcome of that case stands in sharp contrast to that of   Peter Liang, the police officer who was convicted in the shooting   death of Akai Gurley, although it was called an accident. ’ ”   In Liang’s case,   noted, the shooting wasn’t on   purpose  —   Liang had accidentally fired a shot in an unlit   stairwell, which ricocheted off the wall and fatally struck   Gurley  —   nor was there a video.   said it was district   attorney Ken Thompson whose persistence was the most important   factor in obtaining a conviction. ” ’   ”The interesting thing about video footage is that it’’s still   subject to interpretation,”   told Business Insider.   ”And I think it takes a motivated prosecutor and a good   prosecutor to convince whoever they have to convince that what   you’’re seeing on the video is illegal behavior.” ’