’  ’ ’   Multiple police officers were shot and at least five were killed   by ”snipers” amid a protest and rally in Dallas, Texas, on   Thursday night, the Dallas Police Department said. ’ ’   Dallas Police officials said at least 11 officers and one   civilian were shot. Four of the deceased officers were from the   Dallas Police Department. One deceased officer was from the   Dallas Area Rapid Transit agency. ’ ’   At least seven other officers were injured. Two officers   underwent surgery and three are in critical condition, according   to police. ’ ’   Dallas Police Chief David O. Brown said the officers were shot by   two snipers in ”elevated positions” near the protest. He said   they were shot ”ambush style.” ’ ’   The police are still working to figure out of they have arrested   or subdued everyone involved with the attack, what their motive   was, and how they were organised. ’ ’  ’ ’   In a   press conference, Brown said officers had   exchanged gunfire with a suspected gunman. The suspect reportedly   declared, ”The end is coming,” Brown said, adding that the   suspect said he would ”hurt and kill” more police officers and   that he had placed bombs inside the garage. ’ ’   The man engaged in a shootout with police  killed himself, according to Sky News and   The Dallas Morning News, shortly before 3 a. m. local time. ’ ’ ’ ’  Remaining gunman in the El Centro College garage reported dead   ’ ’   The shootout between police and the gunman is now over. ’ ’   President Barack Obama addressed the shooting in a press   conference from Warsaw. He called it a ”vicious, calculated   attack,” adding that there was no possible justification for   those actions and that justice would be done. He also reiterated   how the police have an ”extraordinary difficult job” and that   ”police across America feel this loss to their core and we feel   with them,” before asking all Americans to say a prayer for the   policemen who lost their lives. ’ ’   Obama also said t he   believed he spoke for all Americans in saying ”we are horrified   and stand united with Dallas police force.” ’ ’  ’ ’   The city is still on lockdown as the police operation to find all   the shooters goes on. According to posts on social media, some   people have been trapped in the downtown area for hours as the   lockdown continues. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’twait continues downtown as the lockdown persists following  during  protest.  ’ ’   Before the suspect killed himself he was pinned down in a gun   battle with police. Negotiations with the suspect went on for at   least 45 minites, although Brown said that gunman was ”not very   cooperative.” ’ ’   A woman was taken into custody near a parking garage where a   gunman was believed to be firing shots, as well as two men who   were carrying camouflage bag, Chief Brown said. ’ ’   “We still don’t have a complete comfort level that we have all   the suspects,” Brown said, adding they would work until they were   satisfied that all possible suspects were caught. ’ ’  ’ ’   Earlier Thursday night, the Dallas Police Department  of a man wearing a   shirt and   carrying what appeared to be a rifle, indicating that the man was   a person of interest. A  from the police department said the man ”turned   himself in.” ’ ’   Several reports on social media later indicated that the man was   not involved in the shooting. ABC News    that a lawyer for the man confirmed he is not a suspect and has   been released by police. ’ ’  ’ ”   Here’s more from the Dallas Police Department: ” ’   An eyewitness told CNN he recorded video that appeared to show a   person shooting from a parking structure near the scene. Ismael   Dejesus told anchor Don Lemon he captured the video from his   hotel room. ’ ’ ’ ’Witness Ismael Dejesus joins  to share the video he captured of the  shooting ’ ’   Bystanders  of that sniper using a set of pillars   at the base of a large building as cover, as he shot at the   police. In that video the gunman can be seen hunting down an   officer who was attempting to subdue him. The officer was   hiding behind another pillar when the gunman shoots him from   behind (warning: the video is graphic): ’ ’ ’ ’   A notification from the DART agency earlier Thursday evening      that the service had been ”suspended due to criminal activity.” ’ ’   A  from the transit agency said that four of its officers   were injured, with one deceased. He was identified as  who joined the   department in 2009. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tDART identifies Brent Thompson, 43, as DART officer killed in  shooting   ’ ’   The three other DART officers are expected to survive, they were   identified as  ’ ’  ’ ’   In a video that emerged on social media soon after first reports   of the incident, Dallas police officers could be seen shielding   themselves behind vehicles at a street corner after shots were   apparently fired during the protest. ’ ’   ”I heard about 20 shots in rapid succession,” one witness told   KTVT. A man  said ”there’’s an officer down . .. I   think another officer’’s down around the corner.” ’ ’   Rallies have continued nationwide this week in the wake of police   shootings in  and . Both of those shootings  —   in which   black men were killed during encounters with law enforcement  —     have prompted rebukes from   leaders and elected   officials across the country. ’ ’   The violence that erupted in Dallas occurred as the peaceful   rally was taking place. It is not clear whether the shooting and   the rally were related. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’: Our cameras captured several shots ring out during a protest in Downtown Dallas ’ ’   Here, a witness tells . ’ ’ ’ ’   Earlier in the day, President Barack Obama spoke about     shootings, citing sobering statistics on police   encounters with people of color. Obama . ’ ’   ”We know you have a tough job, we mourn those in uniform that are   protecting us, who lose their lives,” he said. ’ ’   The Dallas Morning News released a picture of its front page for   Friday, July 8: ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tThe front page of Friday’s Dallas Morning News following Thursday’s shootings downtown.  ” ’   Dallas Mayor Mike Rawlings spoke around 12:30 a. m. local time   about the shootings: ’ ’   ”It is a   morning to lose these four officers that   proudly served their citizens.  is  ladies  ’ ’   ”We as a city, we as a country must come together, lock arms and   heal the wounds that we all feel from time to time. Words matter,   leadership matters at this time. I’’m proud of our chief.” ’ ’ This is a developing story and will be updated with new   information as it comes in. ’