’  ’ ’   Author, Nobel laureate, and Holocaust survivor Elie Wiesel, died   Saturday, at 87. ’ ’   Wiesel’’s most famous work, ”Night,” is a an autobiographical   account of his time spent in the Nazi concentration camps of   Auschwitz and Buchenwald from 1944 to 1945.  ’ ”   Over the past 30 years, it’s become a mainstay of   required reading lists in high school English classes across   the nation. ” ’   ”At this point in time, I would say ”Night” is practically   ubiquitous,” Carol Jago, distinguished English teacher and former   president of the National Council of Teachers of English, told   Business Insider. ’ ’   ”I’’ve seen a lot of high school reading lists and mostly in   ninth and tenth grade everyone is teaching it,” Jago,   who has taught English to middle and high school students for 32   years, added. ’ ’   ”Night” relays the horrors of the Holocaust in sparse,   tormented prose. During Wiesel’’s    ’ ’   “Because if we forget, we are guilty, we are accomplices,” he   said.  ’ ’   In ”Night,” Wiesel doesn’’t retreat from sharing the horrors he   experienced: ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Night” also focuses on Wiesel’’s guilt watching his father die   while feeling resentful for having to be his caretaker, as well   as his disillusionment with humanity and his own religion. ’ ’   Those themes resonate with young people, according to Jago. ’ ’   ”In my experience, teenagers love thinking about and talking   about a loss of belief or a loss of faith,” Jago said. ”The   extent to which Elie Weisel almost goes feral to survive; young   readers think, ”What would I do?” she explained. ’ ’   Originally an   text, ”Night” was pared down to about 120   and translated into French, then English. It has since been   translated into 30 languages and has sold more than 10 million   copies worldwide. ’ ’   For English classrooms around the US, it seems that ”Night” will   continue to remain a staple for years to come. ’ ’   ”This is a text that has entered the American curriculum 30 years   ago, and it is sticking,” Jago said. ”There has not been a   replacement, and I think that speaks to its power. ’