’  ’ ’   In a rather confusing and seemingly contradictory statement, FBI   Director James Comey announced Tuesday that the agency  against Hillary Clinton   for her use of a private email server while she served as   secretary of state. ’ ’   Comey described Clinton’’s email practices as ”extremely careless”   and noted that there is ”evidence of potential violations of the   statutes regarding the handling of classified information.”   Still, Comey said that ”no reasonable prosecutor would bring such   a case” against Clinton and the Justice Department formally   closed the probe Wednesday. ’ ”   The FBI’s decision not to recommend charges seemed to have come   down to a question of intent, according to Comey. ” ’   ”Prosecutors necessarily weigh a number of factors before   bringing charges,” Comey said at a Tuesday press conference.   ”There are obvious considerations, like the strength of the   evidence, especially regarding intent.” ’ ”   Some legal experts say carelessness doesn’t constitute sufficient   intent for a prosecutor to bring a case against Clinton. ” ’   ”There are lots of statutes that deal with the mishandling of   classified information, but what they all have in common is that   it’’s intentionally or knowingly reckless, not careless,” Nancy   Gertner, a Harvard Law School lecturer who specializes in   criminal law, told Business Insider. ”If carelessness were   sufficient, we would have indicted half the government.” ’ ’   Benjamin Wittes, a senior fellow in governance studies at the   Brookings Institution,  that ”it’’s not uncommon for     officials to treat classification rules with a lack   of deference.” ’ ’   Gertner made a similar point. ’ ’   ”It would really expose huge numbers of officials to criminal   prosecution if we said that carelessness was enough,” she said. ’ ’  ’ ’   Still, the case against Clinton, who is now the presumptive   Democratic nominee for president, is ”pretty damaging” and she   ”should have known better,” Wittes wrote. ’ ’   ”For the last several months, people have been asking me what I   thought the chances of an indictment were,” Wittes wrote. ”I have   said each time that there is no chance without evidence of bad   faith action of some kind. People simply don’’t get indicted for   accidental,   mishandling of classified material.” ’ ’   For Clinton to be prosecuted, Wittes argued, there would have to   be more than just an allegation of her mishandling classified   information through her use of a private server for her emails. ’ ’   Wittes agreed with Comey that Clinton should not be charged. ’ ’  ’ ’   Other legal experts shared a different opinion. ’ ’   John Malcolm, the director of the Edwin Meese III   Center for Legal and Judicial Studies at the conservative   Heritage Foundation, said that while ”proving specific intent is   a hard thing to do,” the Justice Department could prosecute   Clinton based on her negligence in handling classified   information. ’ ’   ”He certainly laid out a fairly compelling case for gross   negligence,” Malcolm told Business Insider. ”He says no   reasonable prosecutor would bring this case, but I’m not sure   about that.” ’ ’   Malcolm noted that ”there are lots of statutes out there on the   books that do not require specific intent.” ’ ’   ”They may well have been able to establish gross negligence, and   that’’s what the statute calls for,” Malcolm said, referring to a   provision of the Espionage Act that stipulates  ’ ’   Ben Shapiro, a conservative commentator and Harvard Law school   graduate, agreed that Clinton could have been prosecuted for   gross negligence. ’ ’   ”They say the crime that she committed requires intent. The   statute does not require intent. It requires gross negligence.   [Comey] called her ‘extremely careless’ and then proceeded   to describe how she was grossly negligent. So clearly it fulfills   the requirements of the statute,” he told Business Insider. ’ ’   Shapiro, moreover, argued that intent was in fact present.  ’ ’   ”When he says that there was no intent, the question is intent to   do what? The intent he’s talking about is basically treason. No   one has said that she’s a traitor,” he said. ’ ’   ”People have said that she intended to put classified material on   her server without regard for whether it was going to pose a   national security risk. . .. I don’’t know how in the world anyone   could possibly claim that it would not cause risk to national   security.” ’ ”   Robert Weisberg, the   of Stanford’s Criminal Justice   Center, also said the issue came down to whether   exposing the emails could have harmed national security. But   he said whether that happened was not so clear.  ” ’   ”The case comes down to that issue of whether she was grossly   negligent with regard to the possibility of the injury of   national security,” Weisberg told Business Insider.  ’ ’   He added: ”Presumably they didn’’t find that there was any   particular email . .. which had content where anybody looking at   that content would say, ’’Oh my gosh, that could threaten national   security.” ’