’   In the future, they keep telling us, investors will pay lower   fees to run their money around the world. This is a future that   upends a business model Wall Street and hedge funds have known   for decades, with relatively inexpensive passive index funds   largely replacing   active management. ’ ’   This future terrifies the industry. ’ ”   The thing is, because of the weird and scary market we’re in,   this bizarro future is headed for Wall Street like a Mack truck.   A report published by Bank of America Merrill Lynch on Wednesday   has some great data to back up the move from active to passive   funds. ” ’   The future, my friends, looks like this: ’ ’  ’ ’   Yes, this is a future in which money is sucked from an industry   that since the 1990s has become a behemoth: the $3 trillion hedge   fund industry. ’ ’   Active managers, the   Masters of the Universe who have   been charging high fees for generating this thing called ”alpha”   (uncorrelated returns that beat the market)  —   will have a smaller   share of everyone’’s money. ’ ”   It’s no secret that they haven’t been generating impressive,   uncorrelated returns in this market. In the first half of 2016   the average active manager returned 0. 8%. ” ”   You can . You can say the industry is too big.   Whatever. That doesn’t change the fact that the strategies that   were working immediately after the financial crisis are no longer   working and that those strategies mostly involved everyone   chasing a few ideas around the market, some ridiculous financial   engineering through tax restructuring and mergers and   acquisitions, and everyone generally doing the same kind of thing   as one another. ” ’   From BAML: ’ ’   The perfect example of this change is a simple, stupid strategy   that no longer works: A manager used to be able to buy the top 10   stocks held by active managers in the market, hold them, and beat   the market. ’ ’   Now the opposite is true. The 10 least crowded stocks have been   beating the market. In fact, in the first half of this year the   least crowded stocks beat the most crowded stocks by 18%. ’ ”   So hedge fund land, that’s why we’re out. ” ’   We the people  —   who have had our money sitting in pension funds   and the like  —   are all heading to passive   equity index   funds in droves. We are favoring baskets of stocks administrated   by robots and allowed to run their course in the market with   little management, like   funds. ’ ’   This is a future that terrifies a lot of Wall Street, especially   hedge fund land. As for everyone else in the industry, lower fees   are lower fees. They mean there is less to go around. ’ ’   And people are passionate about this stuff. ’ ”   It’s why Larry Fink, the CEO of BlackRock, the biggest investor   in the world and a big advocate of passive investing, almost got   into fisticuffs with Carl Icahn, a champion of the active side   for decades, in what can only be considered one of the most   awkward . ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’ To hear the rest of Josh Brown’’s guest spot on ”Hard Pass,”   listen below: ’