Good morning. Here’s what you need to know: • In a series of Twitter posts, the ethics watchdog for the United States government revealed legal advice that would normally be confidential: that   Donald J. Trump must divest his financial stake in his businesses. It was unclear whether Mr. Trump’s pledge to take steps to separate from his businesses would clear that bar. Mr. Trump plans to hold rallies in states that were crucial to his victory. _____ • Mr. Trump’s choice for national security adviser, retired Lt. Gen. Michael T. Flynn, an outspoken critic of political Islam, has described China, North Korea, Russia, Cuba and Venezuela as     conspirators. Here’s a list of those picked for cabinet positions and other possible selections  —   including Sarah Palin, under consideration for secretary of veterans affairs. And here’s the latest on the transition. The  ’s reliance on social media has raised a question for news organizations: Is everything Mr. Trump posts on Twitter news? _____ • Iraqi security forces retaking territory from the Islamic State are uncovering mass graves on a despairingly regular basis. Most of the dead were killed recently, after the campaign for Mosul began. We met a Syrian reporter, Hadi Abdullah, 29, above, as he was traveling to Aleppo. “I don’t expect anything to stop me but death,” he said. _____ • The European Union plans to spend 5. 5 billion euros a year to help governments acquire military hardware, including helicopters and drones, and to develop military technology. The pledge comes as the U. S. appears to be taking a step back in its role in the world. _____ • It took nearly three weeks, 12 closely fought games and a day of   tiebreakers to decide the World Chess Championship, but at the end of play, victory went to the defending champion, Magnus Carlsen. The victory for Mr. Carlsen, who is from Norway, also fell on his 26th birthday. _____ • The pilot of the chartered plane that crashed in Colombia, killing almost all aboard, including members of a Brazilian soccer team, had radioed controllers that he was running out of fuel. “Fuel emergency,” he said in one of his last transmissions. _____ • Lufthansa flights resume today. Its pilots’ strike has become the latest example of how the fabled competence of German conglomerates has fallen into crisis. • Maxim Oreshkin, 34, is Russia’s new economy minister. President Vladimir V. Putin will deliver his annual state of the nation speech today. • OPEC’s deal to cut production by 1. 2 million barrels a day sent oil prices soaring. • Snapchat’s parent company, Snap, is headed for a blockbuster I. P. O. next year. Spectacles, Snap’s   sunglasses, are among the most compelling tech devices of recent years. • Eurozone unemployment figures, released today, are expected to fall below 10 percent for the first time since 2011. • Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • Ukrainian missile tests due to start today near Crimea could become another flash point in tensions with Russia. [Kyiv Post] • Mahmoud Abbas, the president of the Palestinian Authority, proposed the creation of a unity government with Hamas, the militant rival faction that controls the Gaza Strip. [The New York Times] • Colombia’s Congress approved a peace accord with the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, in a vote that was most likely the final hurdle in ratifying the agreement whose earlier version had been rejected in a referendum this fall. [The New York Times] • Melania Trump, the future American first lady, warned Slovenians not to use her name and likeness without her consent. [Politico] • In Gambia, voters will decide whether to reinstall President Yahya Jammeh, who is 22 years into his pledge to stay in power for a billion years. [The New York Times] • China’s 30 million “missing girls” may simply have not been registered, not aborted or killed after birth, new research suggests. [The Washington Post] • Eduardo Mendoza won this year’s Cervantes Prize, the   world’s highest literary honor, for bringing a “new narrative style to Spanish fiction. ” [Associated Press] • The inventor of the Big Mac, Jim Delligatti, died at 98. [The New York Times] • Unesco declared Belgian beer culture as part of humanity’s intangible cultural heritage. Monks in the Italian town of Norcia, above, hope their beer brewing operation can help the town recover from the country’s worst earthquake since 1980. • “The world is   crumbling,   the machine rusting. ” This is a poem by Birgitta Jonsdottir, the politician trying to form a government in Iceland, where poetry is a national pastime. • Scotland said its bank notes were free of animal products after the Bank of England dismayed vegans by saying a new note contained a substance usually made from animal fat. • Using complex optics, a      camera in Berlin creates   portraits directly onto photo paper. • Pirelli, in its 2017 calendar, demonstrated that there is beauty and audacity at any age. • And here’s a Times investigative reporter reminiscing about how the Austrian Alps rekindled his passion for skiing. More than 30 years ago, a cow set a record for the most milk produced in 24 hours. Ubre Blanca (White Udder) was said to yield 110. 9 liters, or 29 gallons, that day. Her master was Fidel Castro. The supercow is one of many tales Cubans will remember as they say goodbye to their longtime leader this weekend. Ubre Blanca was part of Mr. Castro’s effort to solve a milk shortage. Long before Dolly the sheep or goats engineered to produce silk, Mr. Castro used artificial insemination to combine the Asian zebu’s hardiness with a Holstein’s high yield. Ubre Blanca was born in 1972 to instant stardom. Daily reports of her progress became news, though in the end, she was more or less the only success from the breeding experiment. Mr. Castro had a love for all things dairy, which included “Cuban Camembert” and a quest to build an ice cream parlor, Coppelia, to rival the American restaurant chain Howard Johnson’s. His ice cream obsession was also the closest the United States got to a successful assassination attempt  —   poison was to be slipped into Mr. Castro’s milkshake, but it froze to the side of the freezer instead. As for Ubre Blanca, she died in 1985. A government official saluted her, saying, “She gave her all for the people. ” _____ Remy Tumin contributed reporting. Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of the briefing should help. Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings. What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes. com.