’  ’ ’   Tesla is in the middle of a firestorm over its Autopilot      technology after a fatal accident in Florida   involving a Model S sedan that was using the technology. ’ ’   Morgan Stanley analyst Adam Jonas, a major Tesla bull on Wall   Street, thinks that Autopilot could pose a  for drivers who think that it basically drives   the car itself. ’ ”   Consumer Reports has insisted that Tesla  to   something that won’t tempt owners to think that they have a   private jet rather than an earthbound vehicle. ” ’   As it turns out, I just had my most extensive experience with   Autopilot. Tesla loaned me a Model S P90D with the latest   everything. We used it to take a trip to the Catskills, in   upstate New York. More on the trip later  —   it was quite an   adventure, and the car performed well  —   but for now: ’ ”   It was very advanced cruise control. And when it’s fully   activated,   allows the driver to take his hands   off the wheel for short periods of time, although Tesla has   repeatedly stressed that drivers shouldn’t do this. And when you   activate the technology, a warning presents itself on the   instrument cluster. ” ”   But here’s the real deal: You absolutely, positively shouldn’t   take you hands off of the wheel. Ever. ” ’   The technology is very good, but after using it for only about 15   minutes on the highway, it was abundantly clear to me that   Autopilot is a long, long way from the magical   experience of a car driving itself. ’ ’   Or even steering itself. ’ ’   At Business Insider, we had an early look at Autopilot, right   after it was released in a software update last year. I went for   it and avidly took my hands off the wheel. But we were in the   vehicle for only a short period of time. ’ ’  ’ ’   As we used Autopilot for a longer drive, however, it rapidly   became obvious that the system does exactly what Tesla says   it will do: guide the car through its lane, change lanes, and   monitor surrounding traffic to avoid collisions and activate   braking. ’ ”   It doesn’t do anything else. ” ”   My opinion of Autopilot is entirely my own and not based on   exhaustive or remotely scientific testing. But I now think that   the accidents that have occurred when the technology was   activated were the result of drivers not making a rational   evaluation of Autopilot’s capabilities. ” ’   I couldn’’t get comfortable keeping my hands near the wheel, or   ”hovering” them close by. I wanted my hands on the wheel at all   times, and I think that any reasonably experienced driver should   feel the same way. ’ ’   Beyond that, Autopilot requires monitoring.   You must pay attention to what the system is doing   to determine if its sensible to leave it on. It actually   demands more, not less, driver attention. ’ ”   I’ve now  made by the man who was killed   in the Florida crash. It looks to me like he was trying to push   the envelope on what the system could do, consistently placing   himself in a position to have to get his hands back on the wheel    —   and probably also on the brakes, deactivating Autopilot  —   to   retain control of the vehicle. ” ’  ’ ”   I’ve been driving for over 30 years, and because of what I do for   a living, I get to sample all of the latest and greatest   automotive technologies. I don’t consider myself an expert   driver, but I do consider myself able to make an assessment of   what one should and shouldn’t do with all of the advanced     systems in the market. ” ”   But the thing is that cruise control has been with us for   decades. Most drivers understand what it can and can’t do. And   although Autopilot is the most significant advancement in cruise   control that I’ve ever seen, it merely points at a distant moment   when drivers will be able to switch off their attention and trust   that their car’s brain, sensors, and radars will make better   decisions. ” ”   Frankly, I’m baffled that anyone   would misunderstand this about Autopilot, even if   Tesla has gone too far in the direction of talking up Autopilot   as a preview of the future. ” ”   You’re in control of your own evaluations of new technologies.   When you’re talking about a vehicle of several thousand pounds   hurtling along a roadway at over 60 mph, then a simple, nearly   intuitive grasp of the physics would tell you that your attention   should be focused on Autopilot, with hands on the   wheel, more so than with a vehicle that uses   less advanced tech. ” ’  ’ ’   If this sounds like I’’m blaming owners for how they handle   Autopilot, rather the holding Tesla accountable for releasing the   tech in a ”beta” version and using the owners as a test group,   well, so be it. ’ ”   You’re not a sheep, and you don’t have to be a guinea pig. You’re   not a weak mind under the wicked and immoral influence of a     Svengali. ” ”   You’re a driver in charge of your vehicle, and if   you have a license and any time behind the wheel, then you ought   to be able to figure out what’s safe and what isn’t  —     particularly if you’ve been informed by Tesla that you are   assisting in perfecting a new technology. ” ”   When I reached out to Tesla for some additional insight into how   it educates owners on Autopilot, the company noted that   its owner’s manual contains a list of adverse circumstances   that, in my reading, would compel any reasonable driver to   deactivate an     system, much less far   more advanced yet still unproven tech. ” ”   It’s a car. You’re not going to be be relieved of the   responsibility for driving it anytime soon. ” ”   Tesla also stressed that Autopilot isn’t actually about   the car driving itself. It’s about making driving   safer. ” ’   ”We are continuously and proactively enhancing our vehicles with   the latest advanced safety technology,” a Tesla   representative said in a statement. ’ ’  ’ ’   The rep added: ’ ”   In fairness, Tesla has been saying this all along. It is drivers   who’ve taken their experience with the technology too far. I   certainly didn’t help matters by playing air guitar when I first   tried Autopilot. That’s why I’ve argued that Tesla needs to    that it administers to owners   before Autopilot can be fully activated. ” ”   That might be impractical, and it seems unlikely to me that Tesla   will follow Consumer Reports’ recommendations without specific   urging from the government. The Autopilot crash is being   investigated by the National Highway Traffic Safety   Administration and the National Transportation Safety Board. ” ”   So what Tesla owners now need to do is remember that, although   its vehicles are impressive, they aren’t sentient rolling   androids. We are still a driving species. And we will be for a   while. ”