’  ’ ”   When   app  made its Austin debut before South   by Southwest this past March, the company’s founders weren’t sure   what to expect.  ” ’   Overnight had already launched in Los Angeles, so Austin was its   second    .  ’ ”   The launch was a success for the company, which offers users     booking of   rentals. Think Airbnb meets Hotel   Tonight. Overnight’s rentals were cheap  —   private rooms were   going for $70 or $80 and entire homes were available for $150  —     and users could find accommodations in 10 minutes or   less.  ” ”   But something even more important happened that week, something   that founder and CEO Asher Hunt is incredibly proud of. Hunt   said he received an email during the festival from someone   who had booked their stay on Overnight and had a great   experience. Here’s how Hunt tells it: ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Overnight also aims to be a   community of       users, Hunt said. ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’   After its success in Austin, Overnight launched in San Francisco   and, now, New York City. The app made its NYC debut on Thursday,   and the company says it already has 400 hosts on the app in New   York (and has 3, 500 nationwide). The company also launched a new   version of the app, which allows for faster, more simplified   booking than the previous version, and also allows users to book   multiple nights with the same host, which was not a feature   before now. ’ ”   Here’s how it works: ” ”   Even before Overnight’s official launch in New York, hosts were   already using the platform  —   Hunt himself stayed with an   Overnight host on his most recent trip to New York.  ” ’   ”We’ve seen organic growth in Williamsburg and Brooklyn and we   see demand in the core of the city,” Hunt said. ”This is the   most practical step to prepare us to go international, which is   going to happen, conservatively, in the next six months to a   year.” ’ ”   The obvious question about Overnight is how it’s different from   Airbnb or from Hotel Tonight, and Hunt doesn’t shy away from the   comparison to Overnight’s   predecessor. For   Hunt, the structure of Airbnb was too rigid for him as a host and   the   booking didn’t quite work for him as a guest. He   thinks Overnight can step in to solve those issues.  ” ’  ’ ’     ’