RALEIGH, N. C.  —   There is no doubt that officers surrounded him. That they shouted at him. That they shot him. But a crucial question about the fatal confrontation between Keith L. Scott and police officers in Charlotte, N. C. has always been whether Mr. Scott was wielding a gun. On Wednesday, in a   news conference that at times took on the feel of a courtroom argument, R. Andrew Murray, the district attorney for Mecklenburg County, laid out a case that Mr. Scott, who was black, had a gun in his hands and had not heeded warnings to drop it when he was shot and killed. “It’s a justified shooting based on the totality of the circumstances,” Mr. Murray said. No charges, he said, will be filed against the officer, Brentley Vinson, who is also black. Mr. Murray made his case with an elaborate presentation of videos, enhanced digital images and other evidence, a reflection of the increasing sophistication of prosecutors who must also sway a public skeptical of police accounts of fatal shootings. The Sept. 20 shooting of Mr. Scott was one of several deadly police interactions with   that have sparked waves of street demonstrations and an impassioned national conversation about race and the use of deadly force by police officers. Mr. Murray’s announcement came as a jury in Charleston, S. C. about a   drive southeast of Charlotte, was preparing to hear closing arguments in the case of Michael T. Slager, a former North Charleston police officer who was on duty when he shot and killed Walter L. Scott, a black man who was not related to Keith Scott, during a traffic stop and foot pursuit. In Charlotte, North Carolina’s largest city, the shooting of Keith Scott set off days of protest, some of it violent, and led to immense public pressure on the police to release dashboard and body camera recordings of the episode. Members of Mr. Scott’s family had claimed he had no gun at the time of the shooting, or they were unaware that he owned one. And when the recordings were released, they did not conclusively show whether Mr. Scott had a gun, as the police had asserted. But on Wednesday, Mr. Murray laid out the most detailed case yet that Mr. Scott, 43, was armed when officers confronted him while he was in his parked S. U. V. at his apartment complex in Charlotte’s University City neighborhood. Mr. Scott’s gun, a Colt . 380 semiautomatic, fell to the ground after he was shot, Mr. Murray said. It was later determined that the gun was cocked, with the safety off. Subsequent analysis found Mr. Scott’s DNA on the weapon. Mr. Murray said the authorities traced the gun and discovered that it had been stolen from a home and then illegally sold to Mr. Scott 18 days before the shooting. At the news conference, Mr. Murray exhibited a Facebook conversation he described as involving the gun’s seller and a third person, and said that the seller appeared to admit the transaction had occurred. The authorities, Mr. Murray said, also found records at a sporting goods store that suggested Mr. Scott had purchased a magazine and ammunition for a . 380 caliber handgun. Mr. Murray said some ammunition was found stuffed in a cigarette box in Mr. Scott’s vehicle. Mr. Murray also played a surveillance video that showed Mr. Scott outside a convenience store just before the shooting, with a bulge in his pants near the ankle. Mr. Murray said it was consistent with the officers’ assertion that Mr. Scott was wearing an ankle holster. In an investigative report released Wednesday, prosecutors noted that “every officer present reported seeing Scott holding a gun” after several of them surrounded his car. They had intended to investigate Mr. Scott after one officer saw him with a marijuana cigarette and a handgun. The videos of the episode show them yelling at Mr. Scott to drop the weapon. Mr. Murray said that Mr. Scott never raised the gun at officers. But in a letter to the State Bureau of Investigation and the Charlotte police, Mr. Murray said that an officer, like any other person, is “justified in using deadly force if he reasonably believed, and in fact believed, that he or another person was in imminent danger of great bodily injury or death. ” “Someone with a gun in his hand who does not comply with police commands to drop the gun can be reasonably considered to be an imminent deadly threat to officers,” Mr. Murray wrote, “and   studies show that a person can raise his gun and harm or kill officers before an officer could react to the threat. ” Mr. Scott’s family released a statement on Wednesday that thanked Mr. Murray and other officials for meeting with them, and explaining how they decided not to charge Officer Vinson, who was placed on administrative leave after the shooting. The family also said they were “profoundly disappointed” that Officer Vinson was not criminally charged. “All our family wanted was justice and for these members of law enforcement to understand that what they did was wrong,” the family statement said. Geoffrey Alpert, a criminology professor at the University of South Carolina, said on Wednesday that prosecutors most likely felt the available evidence would not earn a criminal conviction. “It’s a very high standard to indict a police officer for a criminal action in the line of duty,” he said. “But that has nothing to do with the righteousness or appropriateness of the shooting. ” A successful prosecution would be even more difficult, Dr. Alpert said, because the evidence indicated that Mr. Scott was armed, and that he did not comply with orders from the police to drop his weapon. But Dr. Alpert said he expected there would be a lawsuit, in which the legal standard is lower  —   a preponderance of evidence in civil actions versus evidence beyond a reasonable doubt in criminal cases. While the issue of criminality has been resolved, Dr. Alpert said questions remained. “Should they have called him out of the car? Should they have taken cover? What did they know about him at the time?” he said. “The question becomes: At what point does the officer feel threatened?” Susanna Birdsong, the policy counsel for the American Civil Liberties Union of North Carolina, said the decision not to bring charges pointed to the need for policies to ensure that officers “employ   tactics, avoid implicit bias and take into account how mental disabilities can affect a person’s behavior. ” Lawyers for Mr. Scott’s family held a separate news conference in Charlotte on Wednesday. They called for peace in the streets and said they hoped to eventually obtain justice for Mr. Scott. “We’re still in the process of investigating this case,” said Eduardo Curry, one of the lawyers. On Wednesday night, dozens of protesters gathered outside the   Police Department’s headquarters and marched to the center of the city. Three protesters were arrested on charges that they obstructed traffic, the police said on Twitter. Just after the shooting, several people in the apartment complex gave accounts that differed from the police officers’ version. In some cases, they shared their versions of events with the news media. Some of the witnesses said Mr. Scott was shot by a white officer. Some of them said Mr. Scott was reading a book at the time he was confronted. Mr. Murray said subsequent interviews showed that a number of these witnesses had not, in fact, seen the shooting. He also said there was no evidence of a book. Mr. Murray also noted that Mr. Scott’s wife, Rakeyia, had said that she was “certain” her husband did not have any guns after January 2016. “However, text messages between Mr. and Mrs. Scott the month before the shooting included an argument about a gun in Mr. Scott’s possession,” Mr. Murray said.