’  ’ ’   (Reuters)   In 1990, during a close and bitter congressional   race, Mike Pence came under attack for using campaign funds to   pay for personal expenses, including his mortgage and credit card   bills. ’ ’   The expenditures were not illegal at the time, but proved   difficult to explain for a candidate who had railed about the   outsized role of money in politics. ’ ’   Pence in turn blasted his opponent with attack ads, including one   featuring a man in traditional Arab clothing who thanked Pence’s   opponent in thickly accented English for policies that benefited   Middle Eastern oil producers. The commercial was attacked by     groups, and the Indianapolis Star called it one of   the two worst campaign commercials that year. ’ ’   Pence, who is now Indiana’s governor and was selected this week   to be Donald Trump’s presidential running mate, lost his 1990   race, but what he regretted more than losing, he later said, was   his decision to sling mud. ’ ’   In the 25 years since that loss, Pence’s political allies and   enemies alike say he has steered clear of personal attacks. This   could prove challenging when campaigning with Trump, who   enthusiastically tears into his rivals.  ’ ’   Pence’s style is likely to cast him in a very different role from   that of traditional vice presidential candidates, who often throw   and take punches to allow presidential contenders to remain above   the fray. ’ ’   In the case of Trump and Pence, said Indianapolis University   Professor Laura Merrifield Albright, the roles are likely to be   reversed. ’ ”   “It’s a different dynamic. It’s tough to imagine anyone     Trump,” she said, noting that he is “willing to do   his own dirty work. ” ” ’   Michael Totten, a retired architect who worked on Pence’s 1990   campaign, thinks the two candidates will complement one another.   He dubbed Pence “the perfect No. 2,” a running mate who can   “temper some of Trump’’s enthusiasm” and “be the calming   voice.”  ’ ’   Neither Pence nor the Trump campaign immediately responded to a   request for comment. ’ ’  ’ ’   After losing his 1990 race, Pence apologized to his opponent for   the oil advertisement.  ’ ’   He later told his colleague at a conservative think tank, William   Styring, that he regretted the tone of the campaign. “I really   screwed up on this. It’’s not me,” Styring recalled Pence as   saying.  ’ ”   In 1991, Pence wrote an apologetic article for the think tank’s   policy journal, titled “Confessions of a Negative Campaigner. ” ” ’   After the defeat, Pence did not seek public office again for a   decade. He worked at the Indiana Policy Review and hosted his own   statewide conservative radio talk show, describing himself as   “Rush Limbaugh on decaf. ” He also hosted a morning TV show   in Indianapolis from 1995 to 1999. ’ ’   In 2000, Pence again ran for a U. S. House of Representatives   seat, this time successfully. And he demonstrated that his 1990   mea culpa was more than just political theater, observers of   Indiana politics say. His opponents in campaigns after he     politics describe him as extremely disciplined and   cordial. ’ ”   Melina Fox, Pence’s Democratic challenger in 2002, said that his   statements in the race were “calculated and  . ”   Democrat Barry Welsh, who ran against him in 2006, 2008 and 2010,   said Pence was invariably “polite, professional and   gentlemanly. ”  ” ’   But some question how he will cope with being constantly   challenged in a   presidential race. ”He seems   uncomfortable with difficult questions and does not take   counterpunches very well,” said Rebecca Pearcey, who ran the   losing campaign of Pence’s opponent in the 2012 race for Indiana   governor, Democrat John Gregg. ”He doesn’’t engage. He   operates as though the opponent is not there.”   ’ ’     ’ ’   Before being picked as Trump’s running mate, Pence was poised for   a tight rematch race against Gregg. In recent months, Pence’s   approval rating had fallen below 50 percent, in part because of   controversy surrounding the state’s Religious Freedom Restoration   Act, which held that ”a governmental entity may not substantially   burden a person’’s exercise of religion.” ’ ’   Pence first alienated liberals and moderates by signing the bill   into law. He then outraged the measure’s evangelical supporters   by endorsing changes to the law aimed at preventing   discrimination against lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender   people. ’ ’   The 2016 gubernatorial campaign had started to become more   negative, with yard signs calling for Pence to be fired. The   Republican Governors Association ran an independently produced ad   that attacked his opponent’s record. But Pence himself had not   gone negative. ’ ’   At a Saturday morning event to formally introduce his running   mate, Trump called Pence “a man of honor,” contrasting him with   Hillary Clinton, whom he described as “the embodiment of   corruption. ” ’ ’   It remains to be seen how aggressive Pence will be in campaigning   for Trump in coming months   and whether he will stick to the   principles outlined in his 1991 article on negative campaigning. ’ ’   “It is wrong, quite simply,” he wrote at the time, “to squander a   candidate’s priceless moment in history . .. on partisan   bickering. ”  ’ ’   In an interview with CBS correspondent Lesley Stahl that will air   on ”60 Minutes” on Sunday evening, Trump suggested he may not   expect his running mate to go on the attack.  ’ ’   While discussing his Democratic opponent Hillary Clinton, Trump   told Stahl, ”I call her ’’Crooked Hillary’’ . .. but I don’’t think   he should do it, because it’’s different for him.”  ’ ’   (Editing by Sue Horton and Matthew Lewis) ’