’    ’ ’   Winning downscale white voters might mean losing their     counterparts. ’ ’   If, on the night of Nov. 8, we’re all watching Donald Trump give   his victory speech, it will be because he will have pulled   together a broad coalition of white people to propel him to the   presidency. ’ ’   With abysmal numbers among blacks, Hispanics, and other minority   groups, white voters are the only path Trump has to the White   House. ’ ’   He’ll have to win all of them —  white men, white women, white   youth, the white working class —  and he’ll have to win them by   substantial margins. ’ ’   In theory, this should be fertile ground for the real estate   mogul. Trump has unprecedented pull with   whites,   especially men. If he can match past Republican performance with     whites and hold his increased share among their   counterparts with high school diplomas, he’ll have a smooth path   to victory. ’ ’   In reality, this would be almost impossible —  an electoral . The reason is that Trump’s   problems go beyond nonwhites. The ostensible candidate for white   America has a   problem too. ’ ’   At this point in the 2012 election, according to the Pew Research   Center, Mitt Romney held a 13 point lead among all white voters. ’ ’   He led Barack Obama by 21 points among white men, and by 6 points   among white women. Among whites age 18 to 49, he led by 7 points;   among whites older than 50, he led by 17 points. ’ ’   At election’s end,  of   white voters, on par with the highest modern total since Ronald   Reagan’s 1984 landslide against Walter Mondale. Romney’s success   with whites —  while higher than usual —  was on trend. Since 1968,   Republicans had won the lion’s share of white voters. ’ ’   The ostensible candidate for white America has a     problem too. ’ ’   Even when they lost the presidency in previous elections —    —  the GOP has always won   a majority (or plurality) of whites. ’ ’   If the distribution of voters had been static in more recent   elections, Republicans would still control the field in   presidential elections, even as Democrats won the large majority   of nonwhites. But whites are a declining share of the electorate,   which has offset this Republican advantage. It’s still valuable,   but not as much. ’ ’   If George W. Bush’s Hispanic outreach efforts had worked —  or   rather, if the GOP hadn’t squandered those efforts —  the party   would be in a strong national position today. ’ ’  ’ ’   So we know that Trump has ruined the Republican Party’s tenuous   ties to nonwhite communities, and Hispanic Americans in   particular. Less remarked on is the extent to which he’s moving   white voters —  or at least a meaningful segment of them —  into the   Democratic column. ’ ’   For the  a majority of   whites are backing   the Democratic candidate for president. ’ ’ —  a comprehensive look at the electorate —  Clinton holds a   12 point advantage among whites with a college degree, 52 percent   to 40 percent. If you break that into men and women, she trails   among the former —  losing   white men by 7   points —  but holds a 31 point advantage with the latter, swamping   Trump, 62 percent to 31 percent. ’ ’   “Realignments” in American politics are overstated —  or at least,   not as sudden as they might seem —  but if this result holds to   November, it may herald a new stage in presidential politics, or   at least the composition of the Democratic Party. There has   always been a gender gap, with Democrats winning women far more   than men. But this was a function of age and race as much as   anything else; disaggregate the numbers, and white women were a   solid vote for the GOP. ’ ’   Trump, with his erratic behavior and misogynist rhetoric, has   changed that. Now, a relative disadvantage with women has become   an absolute one. According to Pew, Republicans are losing married   women by 12 points (another unprecedented change) unmarried   women by 37 points, and white women —  a former redoubt —  by 10   points. ’ ’   Trump wins white women without college degrees, but it’s a slight   3 point margin. Depending on the shape of the election from now   to November, he could lose them too. ’ ’   It’s this shift among white women that’s driving the inversion of   white support within the Democratic Party. Twenty years ago —  when   a different Clinton was running for   —  the Democratic   Party was struggling to regain its advantage with     whites, who had formed the popular base of the party’s white   support overall. But 2008, 2012 —  and now 2016 —  has changed that. ’ ’   Increasingly, Democrats are drawing their white support from     Americans in the prosperous suburbs of states   like Colorado, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, and Virginia, just   as Republicans are deepening their hold on   whites   nationwide. ’ ’  ’ ’   For the immediate future, this means that Trump is in a bad   place. If winning downscale white voters means losing their     counterparts, then he’s simply substituting one   demographic for another, in a way that leaves him further behind.   But more interesting than this   electoral calculation   are the   implications for American politics. ’ ’   A Republican Party that loses its absolute hold on white women is   one where   politics —  his blend of aggressive resentment   and economic nationalism —  continues to hold sway among the base. ’ ’   And a   Democratic Party of   whites and     nonwhites is one that might continue its streak of   national wins and regional defeats. That is, if it can survive   the inevitable class tensions that come with trying to keep a big   tent from falling into itself. ’