”   Imagine that the first map you ever saw of the United States was   simply a rough outline of the country’s borders with only about   half the state boundaries penciled in. ” ”   That’s essentially the type of diagram that scientists have been   using as a map of the human brain for more than 100 years. ” ”   Fortunately, that’s about to change. ” ’   By combining data from a handful of imaging techniques, an   international coalition of researchers has created one of the   most precise maps of the human brain ever seen. The new map,    divides the brain up into   180 unique brain regions, of which 97 have never been identified   before. Take a look: ’ ’  ’ ’   ”This is something of a landmark in terms of mapping the brain   that we are very excited to share with the world,” David Van   Essen, one of the paper’’s authors and the alumni endowed   professor of neuroscience at the Washington University Medical   School in St. Louis, Missouri, told Business Insider. ’ ”   To make it, the scientists combined over a century’s worth of   brain research, from   anatomical models based on   dyed,   slices of cadaver brains, to modern MRI scans   designed to show brain activity in live people. ” ”   It’s incredibly  ; futuristic, even. But it’s also   grounded in a method of exploration that’s been around for   hundreds of years: Mapping. ” ”   Take a stroll outside your home, and you’ll notice the terrain   will change. Outside your door, your feet might touch wood or   cement  —   your patio, perhaps. But take a few more steps and   you’re on grass. A few steps more and you reach the asphalt of a   parking lot or the cement of a curb. Perhaps you reach a wall, a   fence, or another physical border. ” ’   This approach is similar to the one that the researchers used to   navigate the brain. Like curious hikers, they roamed the   labyrinthian depths of the cortex and took detailed notes of what   they saw. Every time they reached a spot where the terrain   shifted, they marked it as a different part of the brain. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”We were looking for where parts of the map change  —   so for   example, you’’ll see the architecture will change as you step over   a border,” Matthew Glasser, a   of the paper and a   graduate student in Van Essens’’s lab at the University of   Washington in St. Louis, told Business Insider. ’ ’   Still, architectural differences can only tell us so much.   Outdoors, a patch of grass might be a sign of a soccer field, for   example, but it could also be a dog park. A brick wall might   indicate a library, but it could also be the sign of a   school. So, instead of relying on one feature or ”modality”   alone, the scientists combined numerous studies that looked at   different features. MRI scans, for example, are used to measure   brain activity while participants engage in a specific task, like   reading or watching a movie, or while they are simply letting   their minds wander. ’ ’   Combining the data from all of these studies revealed 97   previously unidentified regions of the brain, which in the future   scientists might study   in order to look at the causes of   specific illnesses or disease  —   and to try and come up with   cures. ’ ’   Of all of the 97 new regions, or ”fingerprints,” that the   scientists spotted for the first time, one area in particular   stood out: A region called 55B, which is thought to play a key   role in how we process language. ’ ’   Located towards the top and middle of the brain, 55B has been   largely ignored for about a century. A   —   one of the only   studies that the researchers came across that mentioned it  —     the area had simply been labeled ”55B.” ’ ’   Hopf’’s paper suggested that 55B was a unique cortical region   because its nerve fibers appeared to be packaged in far less of a   type of insulation, called myelin, than the areas surrounding it.   This level of insulation, or ”myelination,” has since become one   of the key features that researchers use as a sign of a unique   brain region. Van Essen and Glasser noticed the same thing Hopf   had mentioned. But they noticed several other things as well. ’ ’   When Van Essen, Glasser, and their team had participants in their   study undergo a ”language task” of listening to a story while   having their brains scanned by an MRI, 55B glowed with activity.   At the same time, its neighbors  —   the surrounding brain regions  —     stayed dark. ’ ’   ”This [area] is an island unto itself,” said Van Essen. ’ ’  ’ ’   But that doesn’’t mean 55B is working solo when it comes to   language  —   quite the opposite, in fact. The Broca’’s area, for   example, a region that’’s been   for its role in   language, was also active during these language tasks, despite   being located relatively far from 55B. What this tells us is that   55B is ”part of a network whose dominant components are located   in different parts of the frontal lobe.” And while the current   study doesn’’t get at the mechanics of how language processing   works or what 55B’’s particular role might be in that larger   process, what it does tell us is no less important: ”We have a   new kid on the language block,” said Van Essen. ’ ’   Future researchers who specialize in language might want to look   at 55B to hone in on the causes of specific ailments, injuries,   or diseases, or even to look into how our communication abilities   could have evolved over time. ’ ’   Despite centuries of research, much of our brain remains   mysterious. ’ ”   In fact, a lot of what we know draws from a .   Brodmann’s areas, as they’re known today, are based on the   brain’s cytoarchitecture  —   how its billions of cells are stacked   and arranged. ” ”   Here’s an image of Brodmann’s areas, which include regions   thought to be involved in motor control, vision, hearing, and our   sense of touch: ” ’  ’ ’   Since then, scientists have come up with a handful of slightly   more modern techniques with which to look at the brain, such as   MRIs,   fMRIs, and myelin mapping (shown below) but   even these are greatly limited in scope and detail. ”It’’s   although up until now, well over half the landscape was blurred   or fuzzy to everyone,” said Van Essen. By combining them,   researchers think they may have come up with one of the sharpest   and most accurate maps yet. ’ ’   Earlier this year, another group of researchers at Washington   University in St. Louis made some progress toward accomplishing   this. In their paper,  they used data   from a type of MRI called   MRI (fMRI) to begin to   pinpoint the rough boundaries of some of the fingerprints that   Van Essen and his team later identified in detail. ’ ”   Here’s an image created to show researchers’ progress towards   creating more detailed brain maps: ” ’  ’ ’   The new map is part of a  which began in 2012 with   funding from the National Institutes of Health. In 2010, MIT   neuroscientist  that the traits that make us human   come from what he called our ”connectome”  —   the intricate web of   robust information highways that   different parts of   the brain. Our connectome is responsible for all of our thoughts,   dreams, and actions. ’ ’   Stated another way, ”I am my connectome,” said Seung. ’ ’  ’ ’   In the 1970s, a group of researchers using rudimentary techniques     —   a model of the   neurons and connections that comprise the brain of a worm called   C. elegans. It took them more than a decade. ’ ”   Today’s researchers have slightly more modern tools at their   behest: brain scans. In the last five years, several groups of   researchers have  to get closer to assembling a more   complete map of the human brain. ” ”   Of course, work towards assembling a human connectome isn’t   without its critics, some of whom  the effort still won’t answer fundamental questions   about how the brainThe $  Human Connectome Project,   originally slated to run for five years, is now in its sixth.   Scientists who support it say there’s much work left to be done  —     but the future looks bright. ” ’   ”We have this treasure trove of information,” said Van Essen. ”If   you just take a glance at it it doesn’’t give answers to some of   the most pressing questions, but it lets us look in considerable   detail at what makes each of us uniquely human.” ’