’  ’ ’   In the wake of the   shootings of police officers in    and in  and of  gun violence   is a major part of the political conversation in the US. ’ ”awmakers weren’t   doing anything to solve the problem. ” ’   ”There’’s no backbone in Congress,” Thompson said, speaking at a    event. ’ ’   ”At the end of the day,” he continued, ”the NRA has such a   stranglehold on our representatives in the House and the US   Senate.” ’ ’   Thompson called gun violence a ”national crisis.” He highlighted   that almost  had been shot in Chicago so far this year. ’ ’   Part of the problem, Thompson said, is that even in states with   strict gun laws, like New York, most of the guns recovered at   crime scenes were  in states with weaker gun laws. ’ ’   Thompson noted that in the past 20 years, the past seven police   officers ”shot and killed in the line of duty” in New York City   were shot with guns that came from other states. ’ ’ a New York Police Department officer killed   in 2015, was shot by a gun purchased in . ’ ”   Thompson also said shootings of police officers or of bystanders   should be described as acts of domestic terrorism. He pointed to   a shooting in Brooklyn’s Red Hook neighborhood, where  were wounded and an unborn baby was killed. ” ’  ’ ’   ”The pregnant woman was shot five times,” Thompson said. ”And she   lost her baby. I think that was a domestic act of terrorism.” ’ ’   Thompson was joined onstage by Gov. Dannel Malloy of Connecticut,   former NYPD commissioner Ray Kelly, and Gov. John Hickenlooper of   Colorado. ’ ’   Malloy said racist policies had a strong effect in how gun   violence was treated by lawmakers. ’ ’   ”If the white community had been subjected to the level of crime,   in Brooklyn, that the black community was subjected to,” Malloy   said, ”we would have changed laws and our approach to criminal   justice a lot faster.” ’ ’   Kelly said the increased militarization of police forces across   the country was ”bad optics” and was not the way departments   ”should do civil policing in this country.” ’ ’   ”You saw it in Ferguson,” Kelly continued. ”So I think   militarized police forces should be eliminated. It doesn’’t look   right.” ’ ’   Thompson became the first   district attorney in   Kings County in 2013 when he ran a campaign critical of many New   York police policies. ’