’   Republicans from all corners of the party scorned Ted Cruz on   Wednesday night after the Texas senator  that not only failed to endorse nominee Donald   Trump but implicitly encouraged audience members not to do so if   it would violate their ”conscience.” ’ ’   ”Cruz condemned to Republican hell,”   mogul Matt   Drudge tweeted before placing a ”HELL’’S  ’’” banner on his   popular website. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”I think it was awful,” Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, a     echoed after Cruz’’s speech. ”And quite frankly,   I think it was selfish.” ’ ’   ”For the life of me, I don’’t know why he is doing this,” Fox News   Channel and conservative   host Sean Hannity said. ”I   think there is going to be   damage for the party and for   him.” ’ ’   ”Trump trusted Ted and was rewarded with a betrayal,” former Gov.   Mike Huckabee of Arkansas . ’ ’   Before the speech, some Republicans held out hope that Cruz would   succumb to the pressure and endorse Trump. But when it became   clear that he would decline to express support for the GOP   nominee, audience members rebelled,  until he exited the   stage. ’ ’   ”The best unity I saw was everyone booing him off the stage,”   Donald Trump Jr. said of the moment during an appearance on Fox   News. ’ ’  ’ ”   And Republicans were apparently not shy about expressing their   frustration to Cruz’s face. ” ’   CNN reported that some donors were so furious at Cruz they called   him a ”disgrace” as he tried to enter a suite following his   speech. An unnamed state party chair was so angry with the Texas   senator that he had to be restrained, the news outlet reported. ’ ’   Sheldon Adelson, a major Republican Party donor, even denied Cruz   entry to his personal suite after his speech, according to CNN   and BuzzFeed. ’ ”   Cruz’s wife, Heidi, also  on the convention floor, with   delegates heckling her. She had to be escorted outside by   security, according to reports. ” ”   Trump, for his part, said Cruz’s speech did not bother him. ” ’   ”Wow, Ted Cruz got booed off the stage, didn’’t honor the pledge!”   he tweeted. ”I saw his speech two hours early but let him speak   anyway. No big deal!” ’