’  ’ ’   Donald Trump formally accepted the Republican nomination for   president on Thursday night in a lengthy, dark speech casting   himself as the only savior of an America in decline. ’ ’   ”I’’m with you, the American people,” Trump said. ”I am your   voice.” ’ ’   Addressing the Republican National Convention audience in   Cleveland, Trump cast his candidacy as a contrast between   establishment ”political correctness” and his unique brand of   isolationist populism. ’ ’   ”No longer can we rely on those same people in the media, and   politics,   who will say anything to keep a rigged system in place,” Trump   said. ’ ’   ”History is watching us now. It’’s waiting to see if we will rise   to the occasion and if we will show the whole world that America   is still free and independent and strong.” ’ ’   Trump’’s acceptance speech focused heavily on supporting law   enforcement, with references to the recent shooting of police   officers and to the attacks in San Bernardino, California, and   Orlando, Florida. The Republican nominee promised to appoint ”the   best prosecutors and   officers.” ’ ’   ”In this race for the White House, I am the      candidate,” Trump said. ’ ’   When a protester interrupted the Republican nominee midway   through his speech, he briefly veered  . ’ ’   ”How great are our police?” Trump said, prompting some of the   loudest applause of the night. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tFORMAL ACCEPTANCE OF THE NOMINATION!   ’ ’   Trump also returned to some of his   themes,   reiterating his ban on immigration from countries that have ”been   compromised by terrorism,” a policy the Republican nominee   proposed after first advocating a ban on all Muslims entering the   US. ’ ’   But the   mogul spent considerable time criticizing   President Barack Obama and presumptive Democratic presidential   nominee Hillary Clinton. ’ ’   The Republican presidential nominee said Obama regretted   appointing Clinton as secretary of state, criticizing her     legacy in countries like Libya and Syria that have   been plagued by civil war. ’ ’   ”I am certain it is a decision he truly regrets,” Trump said.   ”Her bad instinct and her bad judgment.” ’ ’   He added: ”This is the legacy of Hillary Clinton: death,   destruction, terrorism, and weakness.” ’ ’   Trump also attempted to cast Clinton as a representative of   corporate interests, asserting that wealthy donors were   attempting to influence the former secretary of state by donating   money to her campaign. ’ ’   ”They are throwing money at her because they have total control   over everything she does,” Trump said. ”She is their puppet, and   they pull the strings.” ’ ’  ’ ”   The crowd’s enthusiasm in the hall occasionally boiled over,   interrupting the   magnate. ” ’   After Trump criticized Clinton’’s character and honesty, the crowd   began chanting ”Lock her up!” ’ ”   Trump paused, acknowledging the crowd’s chanting. ” ’   ”Let’’s defeat her in November,” Trump replied. ’ ’   Clinton’’s campaign criticized the speech as relentlessly negative   and promised a ”positive vision for the future” at next week’’s   Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia. ’ ’   ”Tonight, Donald Trump painted a dark picture of an America in   decline,” Clinton campaign chair John Podesta said in a   statement. ’ ’   The statement continued: ’