’  ’ ”   It’s a strange time in the  and that’s a problem for investors. The   solution may be to start focusing on big ideas. ” ”   Here’s the issue: Stocks are at record highs, but not because   forecasts for earnings and economic growth are optimistic. ” ’   Traditional safe havens like cash and bonds offer little comfort   with interest rates already at . ’ ’   So the choice investors have right now seems to be buy stocks at   record highs with no good reason to see gains continue, or buy   bonds at record highs with no real opportunity to generate yield. ’ ’   Or park your funds in the bank and earn nothing. ’ ’   The solution to this is to ”sit back and see   secular   trends,” said Joseph Quinlan, a market strategist at Bank of   America Global Wealth & Investment Management. ’ ’   He means that investors have to focus on specific industries that   are growing at a faster rate than the overall economy, and find   companies and markets that are going to keep growing irrespective   of what is going on around them. ’ ’   Quinlan is a thematic strategist, and he and his counterparts at   other banks are tasked with identifying these big trends that   will defy the rest of the world economy, like the growing need   for healthcare worldwide and the increasing adoption of   technology used to make machines  —   like cars  —   smarter. ’ ’   ”If you can build it on a foundation of powerful themes that are   going to work for longer periods of time, that’’s a great   foundation,” said Dan Roarty, chief investment officer of global   growth and thematic at AllianceBernstein. ’ ’   ”In my mind, it’’s much better than starting with a benchmark and   trying to build a portfolio plus or minus around the benchmark,”   he told Business Insider. ’ ’   One area that Quinlan is excited about right now is what he calls   ”emerging healthcare costs.” ’ ’   The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD)   estimates that more than half of the adult population in its   member states, mostly developed countries, is overweight or   obese. ’ ”   Although food insecurity is still a concern in many developing   countries, the opposite is becoming a problem for some of them,   too. That’s happening as per capita incomes rise, combined with   more sedentary lifestyles and the availability of more processed   foods. ” ’   Emerging countries are estimated to account for   of   global healthcare spending in 2025, up from 28% or $2 trillion,   in 2015, according to BMI Research. ’ ’   ” ’ ’  ’ ”   It’s global in nature  —   an important characteristic in   identifying growth themes. That’s because very few US companies   compete against only US companies. So with this approach, it’s   important to not have a bias toward one’s home country. ” ’   ”This is less about   becoming a ” Quinlan told   Business Insider, referring to the growth of a small company.   ”It’’s more about the global brand leaders that have been around   for 50 to 100 years that are just going to tap into this   underlying demand and growth as it takes place.” ’ ’   The theme that AllianceBernstein’’s Roarty finds most interesting   right now is one he calls ”intelligent machines.” Basically,   devices are becoming smarter, thanks to internet connectivity and   advanced sensing capabilities. ’ ’  ’ ’   He anticipates that carmakers would incrementally continue taking   some functionality away from humans and giving it to cars, like   quickly braking to avoid a crash or autopilot altogether. ’ ”   It’s a great opportunity for businesses, even as insurance   companies become more comfortable with covering the associated   liabilities, Roarty said. ” ’   ”As the penetration of those active safety features continues to   grow, you can still get very strong growth, regardless of maybe   some   weakness in the macro economy,” Roarty told   Business Insider. ’ ”   But it’s important to be able to tell when a theme is just a     fad. For that, Roarty and his team pass every   potential theme through a few filters. ” ”   They ask whether there’s a real opportunity that can translate   into sales and cash flow, and whether its prospects are near   enough into the future  —   usually five years  —   to mature.   Additionally, they are interested in only exploiting investable,   public companies that are liquid in areas that are misunderstood   or underappreciated. ” ’   ”I ’ ’  ’ ’   And while thematic investing focuses on   growth, there   are companies that have attractive growth rates right now. For   example, companies in growth industries that are also trading at   a discount to the broader S&P 500 on a      ratio basis could be a good get for the nearer term, she said. ’