’  ’ ’   RIO DE JANEIRO  —   The US Federal Bureau of Investigation gave   Brazil the tip that led to arrests this week of 11 suspected   militants who had discussed a possible attack on the upcoming   Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, a Brazilian prosecutor said,   according to Reuters. ’ ’   In comments to several Brazilian newspapers published Saturday,   Rafael Brum Miron, the federal prosecutor handling the case in   the southern state of Parana, said the FBI had provided a brief   report in which it identified at least six people it suspected as   potential militants. ’ ’   ”The information came from the FBI,” he told the Estado de S.   Paulo newspaper. ”They sent a succinct report: These people merit   investigating.” ’ ”   A spokeswoman for the prosecutor’s office confirmed the comments   and said the FBI provided the tip in May, after which Brazilian   investigators tracked the suspects’ communications and identified   the other people arrested this week. A spokeswoman for the   FBI in Washington declined to comment to Reuters. ” ’   An  from Brazilian federal police   on Thursday said that Brazil had been   investigating suspected ISIS sympathizers  as part of Operation   Hashtag, tapping their phones and tracking their postings on   social media and on messaging apps WhatsApp and Telegram. ’ ’  ’ ”   As Vincent Bevins, the Los Angeles Times correspondent in Brazil,    it’s likely that Brazilian   authorities infiltrated WhatsApp channels used by the suspects,   as WhatsApp communications are encrypted. (Brazil and WhatsApp   have    sent via the app.) ” ’So at a very strategic level, those   . .. conversations,” related to intelligence and best   practices, ”have been going on for four years,” Hutton said. ’ ’   The  just two weeks before   the first Olympics ever in South America begin August 5, come   after a recent wave of violent attacks in Europe and the US and   amid heightened fears that the games could be a target. ’ ’   Initially, police  and said that another   two were being monitored. On Friday, one of the other two turned   himself into police. ’ ’   The suspects,  as   poorly organized and ”absolutely amateur,” were alleged   sympathizers of the Islamic State (ISIS) militant group. ’ ’   Although some of the suspects had pledged allegiance to ISIS   online, investigators said they have  or backing from the group   itself. ’ ’   Only two of the suspects actually knew one another, police said,   but the group communicated extensively online and through   messaging services. ’ ’  ’ ’   In their messages, police said, the suspects applauded recent   attacks outside Brazil and expressed desire  —   but  and no specific plans  —   to   stage an attack during the Olympics. Investigators said one of   the suspects sought  online from a vendor in   neighboring Paraguay. ’ ’   Despite inexperience or lack of organization, investigators say   it is important to identify such groups and derail even incipient   plans, especially at a time when ISIS and other militant groups   are actively seeking to recruit sympathizers and     attackers. ’ ’   As Bevins  guns are generally hard to obtain in Brazil,   though extensive criminal networks in the country, particularly   in Rio, might make acquiring weaponry easier. ’ ’   ”Are they amateurs?” the prosecutor asked in the Estado   interview, referring to the suspects arrested this week. He   rhetorically answered his own question: ”Yes, but I don’’t know of   any experienced suicide bombers.” ’ ’ (Reporting for Reuters by Paulo Prada in Rio de Janeiro and   Roberta Rampton in Washington; Editing by Nick Zieminski) ’