’  ’ ”   Democratic National Committee Chair Debbie Wasserman Schultz will   step down after the party’s convention this week, following   leaked internal emails ” ”   In a statement Sunday afternoon, the chair touted her   accomplishments running the DNC during President Barack Obama’s   reelection campaign but acknowledged that her resignation may   help ease concerns about institutional bias against Sanders. ” ’   ”As the mother of my three amazing children and the   Representative of Florida’s 23rd congressional district, I know   that electing Hillary Clinton as our next president is critical   for America’s future. I look forward to serving as a surrogate   for her campaign in Florida and across the country to ensure her   victory,” Schultz said. ’ ’   She added: ’ ’’ ’   Vice Chair Donna Brazile, who said Sunday that she  to the Sanders campaign for the emails, will serve   as the interim chair. ’ ’   The chair has faced increasing pressure to step down after   internal emails showed top staffers considering leaking negative   information about Sanders, as he  for alleged bias against his   campaign.  ’ ”   DNC Vice Chair R. T. Rybak, who was an unusually vocal critic of   the chair’s leadership, told Business Insider that he heard about   Schultz’s resignation from a reporter Sunday afternoon. The   former Minneapolis mayor said he was disturbed by the content of   the emails and applauded Brazile’s selection as interim chair. ” ’   ”The emails were very disturbing with some serious issues and it   required immediate action,” Rybak said. ’ ’   ”This requires constant scrutiny to make sure that the DNC stays   the neutral player it must be in party contests. That’’s going to   be a long conversation that will start right after this election,   but by resigning today, it allows us to spend the next couple   months talking about how to win. Then after that it allows us to   talk a lot about party reform.” ’ ”   Rybak acknowledged the institutional challenges that can keep the   DNC from connecting with grassroots voters. The mayor suggested   that he’d be open to electing, rather than appointing, a DNC   chair in the future, noting former Vermont Gov. Howard Dean’s bid   for DNC chair in 2005. ” ’   ”I was appointed by President Obama, and that makes it harder to   hold someone like me accountable,” Rybak said. ’ ’   He added: ”One of the best exercises in party democracy was when   Howard Dean chose to run a campaign for DNC chair. We should be   talking about that when the election is over, about whether the   contemporary party should bring more democracy into choosing   people who run the party.” ’ ”   While Schultz’s resignation may help quell discontent on the   left, it’s unclear what the impact will be on the DNC in the long   run. If elected, the incoming president typically appoints an   ally to head the party organization. Indeed, the Clinton campaign   effectively took control of the DNC by appointing former SEIU   political director Brandon Davis as the chief of staff of the   DNC. ” ”   Following Sunday’s announcement, Clinton praised Schultz in a   statement, and promised to campaign for her reelection in   Florida. ” ’   ”There’’s simply no one better at taking the fight to the   Republicans than Debbie  —   which is why I am glad that she has   agreed to serve as honorary chair of my campaign’’s     program to gain ground and elect Democrats in every part of the   country, and will continue to serve as a surrogate for my   campaign nationally, in Florida, and in other key states,”   Clinton said. ’