’  ’ ”   Two men armed  were shot dead by the   police on Tuesday after they took several people hostage in a   church in     a town in France’s Normandy   region. ” ” ISIS, the terrorist group also known as the Islamic State, ISIL, or Daesh, took responsibility for the attack in a statement released through Amaq, the group’s news agency, on Tuesday afternoon. ” ’ hostage .   Three other  ’ ’  ’ ’ hostage   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’    ’ ’   ISIS said in a statement on its Amaq website that two of its   ”soldiers” carried out the attack. ”They carried out the   operation in response to the call to target the countries of the   crusader coalition,” the Amaq statement said, according to   Reuters. ’ ’   One of the assailants was ”fiché S,”  which means he was   under surveillance by the authorities and was wearing an   electronic bracelet. ’ ’  ’ ’   The   began just before 10 a. m. local time in a   church on the Rue Gambetta and ended at about 11 a. m. ’ ’. Houses surrounding the church were evacuated, and   a large perimeter is still blocked off. ’ ’  ’ ”   French Interior Ministry spokesman   Brandet said the   perpetrators were killed by France’s BRI, its elite police force,   when they came out of the church, Reuters reports. ” ”   France’s antiterrorism prosecutor is investigating the case, the   spokesman of the interior ministry said . ” ’   The Vatican condemned the ”barbarous killing” and said Pope   Francis was horrified by the news. ”We are particularly shocked   because this horrible violence took place in a church, in which   God’’s love is announced,” Vatican spokesman Father Federico   Lombardi said, . ’ ’   French Prime Minister Manuel Valls : ”Horror at   the barbaric attack in a   church. All of France and   all Catholics are hurt.” ’ ’he leader of a local mosque,    that he   was ”distraught by the death of his friend.”   ”I don’’t understand, all our prayers go to his family and the   Catholic community,” Karabila said. ”It’’s someone who gave his   life to others. At the mosque, we are dumbfounded.” ’ ’  ’ ’   This is the latest in a slew of attacks that have been plaguing   Europe over the past month. Four attacks shook Germany over just   one week, and France is still mourning the 84 people who died   after being run over by a truck while celebrating Bastille Day in   Nice on July 14. ’ ’  ’ ’ This is a developing story,  or refresh the page for the latest   news. ’