’ The  is a weekly Visual   Capitalist feature on Fridays. ’ ’   Economic authorities and pundits have been vocal about the   potential economic consequences of a British exit from the   European Union, or Brexit. ’ ’   The Bank of England said a Leave vote would increase   unemployment, stoke inflation, slow economic growth, and prompt   consumers and businesses to delay spending. The results would be   . ’ ’   The International Monetary Fund warned that leaving the EU would   cause ”severe regional and global damage” for . ’ ’   The main argument here is that a lack of access to the single   market will hurt the UK economy, and this could prove to be very   true in time. ’ ’ ’ ’   While keeping economic ties to the single market is an important   point to consider, the UK also gains a distinct advantage from   maintaining a further distance from parts of the EU ecosystem. ’ ”   Why? Because parts of Europe are still an economic mess, and   things aren’t getting better. Just look to the recent banking   mess in Italy and nonperforming loans, or NPLs, as an example. ” ’ Historical NPLs (Data from IMF) ’ ’    ’ ’   Italian banks are being crushed by 360 billion euros in   nonperforming loans. According to the European Banking Authority,   they make up 16. 9% of all lending as of March and are unlikely to   be paid in full. As a result, bank stock prices in Italy have   plummeted. ’ ”   Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena, Italy’s   bank by   assets, is now trading for €0. 31, a mere 15% of its   highs   at €2. 04. UniCredit, the country’s largest bank with just under   €1 trillion in assets, is trading at   of what it was   worth a year ago. ” ”   To help solve the disaster, the European Central Bank’s Mario   Draghi is  a public bailout of Italy’s banking   sector. ” ’   Portugal has a similar banking crisis brewing. Nonperforming   loans have mounted to 18. 5% and Prime Minister Antonio Costa is   also publicly  to help Portuguese   banks. ’ ”   Even Germany, which is typically   has its own banking   issues. As we covered a couple of weeks ago, the country’s   largest bank, Deutsche Bank, has seen its  as it has been engulfed by   scandals, record losses, missed stress tests, and poor planning. ” ’   While access to markets is important for the UK, keeping a   distance from flailing European banks also seems as if it could   be a wise choice in the long run as well. ’