’  ’ ’   At the 2012 Democratic National Convention, Bill Clinton gave a   speech that went about 20 minutes over time. It was  and it was shockingly   detailed, as   convention speeches go. ’ ”   For example, Clinton’s 2012 speech had a compelling section   arguing that GOP nominee Mitt Romney had bad ideas about how to   divide state and federal responsibilities for funding Medicaid,   ideas that would hurt millions of voters who probably don’t   usually spend much time thinking about how Medicaid is paid for.   This isn’t exactly scintillating stuff, but Clinton sold it   as not just interesting but important. ” ’   Clinton is one of the most talented political speakers of our   time, but what especially sets him apart is his ability to talk   about complex, arcane policy topics without boring the audience.   His speeches can be soaring and technical at the same time. ’ ’   In his address to the Democratic convention on Tuesday night,   Clinton set out two tasks for himself: humanize his wife, a   candidate with poor personal favorability ratings who is often   discussed as though she were not a person with feelings; and   ground her ideology, making the case that she is a committed   progressive who has devoted her life to making the sorts of   policy changes people on the left care about, all while working   successfully with Republicans. ’ ’   He managed this combination through a tour of the career he and   Hillary built together, one that was heavy on arcane policy   content. It was a clever combination: The message of the speech   was essentially that Hillary channels her humanity into her   policy work  —   that we can understand her soul by examining the   laws she helped shape. ’ ’’ ”   Bill talked about Hillary’s early work as a lawyer, suing to   strip   private schools of their tax exemptions in the   interest of promoting integration. ” ”   He described the variety of boards and commissions she served on   during his administrations, crafting policy changes on topics   from   school funding in Arkansas to children’s health   insurance, which he argued improved the quality of education in   Arkansas and extended health insurance to millions of children   nationwide. ” ’   And he talked about her own record in the Senate and as secretary   of state, crafting international agreements including the New   Start nuclear treaty with Russia. ’ ’   This content sounds boring, a fact Bill acknowledged in his   speech, and in the hands of most speakers it would be. But I   think Bill pulled it off, making the case that Hillary’’s often   unglamorous work in the trenches of government made her a ”change   maker,” as signs in the hands of delegates declared. And he   managed to include numerous examples of bipartisan cooperation to   boot. ’ ”   In 2012,  that Bill Clinton was able to mount a   far more convincing defense of Barack Obama’s governing record   than Obama himself seemed to be able to muster. In this campaign,   Hillary Clinton has struggled to make the case that voters should   be excited about her presidency rather than simply preferring it   over the other unappealing options. ” ’   We will see on Thursday whether she can make as strong a case for   herself as Bill did. ’