’  ’ ’   Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton made the case   against her Republican rival, Donald Trump, in her convention   speech Thursday night. ’ ”   Touching on a common theme among Democrats, Clinton questioned   Trump’s readiness to be commander in chief. ” ’   ”He loses his cool at the slightest provocation,” she said. ”When   he’’s gotten a tough question from a reporter. When he’’s   challenged in a debate. When he sees a protester at a rally.” ’ ’   She then mocked his notorious rants on Twitter. ’ ’   ”Imagine him in the Oval Office facing a real crisis,” she said.   ”A man you can bait with a tweet is not a man we can trust with   nuclear weapons.” ’ ’’ ’   Clinton also went after Trump for pushing what she described as a   message of division and fear. ’ ’   ”He wants to divide us  —   from the rest of the world and from each   other,” Clinton said. ”He’’s betting that the perils of today’’s   world will blind us to its unlimited promise. He’’s taken the   Republican Party a long way, from ’’Morning in America’’ to   ’’Midnight in America. ’’ He wants us to fear the future and fear   each other.” ’ ’   Clinton quoted President Franklin Delano Roosevelt in saying ”the   only thing to fear is fear itself.” ’ ’   Speakers at the Republican National Convention largely sought to   emphasize the dangers facing America, while the Democrats at   their convention this week have pushed a positive and optimistic   message about the future of the US. ’ ’   Clinton’’s speech embodied much of the themes at the Democratic   National Convention. She spoke of ”togetherness” and rejected   Trump’’s view that the country was in trouble. ’ ’   ”Now, we are   about what our country is up against,”   she said. ”But we are not afraid. We will rise to the challenge,   just as we always have.” ’ ”   She rejected Trump’s plans to build a wall on the southern border   of the US and bar Muslims from entering the country. ” ’   ”Don’’t let anyone tell you that our country is weak,” she said.   ”We’’re not.” ’ ’   Clinton also negated  that he alone could fix the country. ’ ’   ”Don’’t believe anyone who says, ’’I alone can fix it,’’” Clinton   said. ”Those were actually Donald Trump’’s words in Cleveland. And   they should set off alarm bells for all of us.” ’ ’   She mentioned military troops, police officers, teachers,   entrepreneurs, and mothers. ’ ’   ”Americans don’’t say, ’’I alone can fix it,’’” Clinton said. ”We   say, ’’We’’ll fix it together. ’’” ’ ”   Trump  to Clinton’s provocations. ” ’   ”Hillary’’s refusal to mention Radical Islam, as she pushes a 550%   increase in refugees, is more proof that she is unfit to lead the   country,” he tweeted Thursday night after Clinton’’s speech. ’