’  ’ ”  FRANCISCO (Reuters)  —   The   computer network used by Democratic presidential candidate   Hillary Clinton’s campaign was hacked as part of a broad cyber   attack on Democratic political organizations, people familiar   with the matter told Reuters. ” ”   The latest attack, which was disclosed to Reuters on Friday,   follows reports of two other hacks on the Democratic National   Committee and the party’s fundraising committee for candidates   for the U. S. House of Representatives. ” ’   The U. S. Department of Justice National Security Division is   investigating whether cyber hacking attacks on Democratic   political organizations threatened U. S. security, sources   familiar with the matter said on Friday. ’ ”   The involvement of the Justice Department’s National Security   Division is a sign that the Obama administration has concluded   that the hacking was state sponsored, individuals with   knowledge of the investigation said. ” ’   The Clinton campaign, based in Brooklyn, released a statement on   the matter late Friday, acknowledging that the breach was part of   the broader DNC hack. Spokesperson Nick Merrill said the Clinton   campaign’’s computer system ”” ’ ’’ ’   Merrill said an ”analytics data program” maintained by the DNC   and used by the campaign and other entities had been breached. ’ ’   The Department of Justice had no comment. ’ ”   It was not immediately clear what information on the Clinton   campaign’s computer system hackers would have been able to   access. ” ’   Hackers, whom U. S. intelligence officials have concluded were   Russian, gained access to the entire network of the fundraising   Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, or DCCC, said people   familiar with the matter, detailing the extent of the breach to   Reuters for the first time. ’ ’   Access to the full DCCC network would have given the hackers   access to everything from emails to strategy memos and opposition   research prepared to support Democratic candidates in campaigns   for the House. ’ ”   The hack of the DCCC, which is based in Washington, was reported   first by Reuters on Thursday, ahead of Clinton’s speech in   Philadelphia accepting the Democratic Party’s nomination. ” ’   Russian officials could not be immediately reached for   comment. ’ ’   The DCCC said in a statement early on Friday that it has hired   cyber security firm CrowdStrike to investigate. ’ ’   ”We have taken and are continuing to take steps to enhance the   security of our network,” the DCCC said. ”We are cooperating with   federal law enforcement with respect to their ongoing   investigation.” ’