’  ’ ’   The  was a big   disappointment. ’ ’   The economy grew at just a 1. 2% annualized rate for the three   months ended June 30, less than the 2. 5% expected by economists. ’ ”   But underneath the bad headline is the real story of what’s going   on in the economy right now, and the story is pretty simple:   Consumers are winning. ” ”   Personal consumption rose 4. 2% in the second quarter of the year,   the best reading since the fourth quarter of 2014 and near the   best level we’ve seen since before the financial crisis. ” ”   The big drag on Friday’s number was the business side of the   economy, where nonresidential fixed investment fell 2. 3%. This,   however, was countered by R&D spending, which rose 4. 8%. ” ’’ ”   Neil Dutta, an economist at Renaissance Macro, noted that R&D   spending totaled 1. 8% of GDP in Q2, which was a record. This   bodes well for future productivity, in Dutta’s view. ” ’   Another theme that  would eventually play out  —     inventory liquidation  —   also appears to be proceeding apace. ’ ’   Analysts at   that inventories plunged in the second quarter,   providing a drag on the headline GDP figures, while real final   sales were up 4. 8%. ’ ’   The simple read here is that people bought lots of stuff that   businesses had already purchased. This means that (1) consumers   are still clearly willing to spend money, and (2) lots of this   stuff was likely bought at a discount. ’ ”   What’s good for consumers is often not great for business. ” ’   Elsewhere in economic data on Friday, the  that wages continue   to rise for US consumers. ’ ’   The employment cost index  —   a more comprehensive measure of   compensation, including wages and other benefits paid to   employees  —   rose 2. 3% over the 12 months ended June 30. Wages,   which constitute 70% of this index, were up 2. 5%. ’ ”   The overriding economic theme right now is a  from employers to employees,   and data out Friday showed this shift as clearly as anything   we’ve seen. ”