’  ’ ”   On July 3, 292 Iraqis were killed during ISIS’ deadliest attack   thus far. ” ”   In a crowded street in Baghdad’s Karrada neighborhood, a     improvised explosive device, or VBIED, detonated   after midnight, causing nearby dwellings to be engulfed in   flames. ” ’   Many residents were trapped inside the inferno  —   it was estimated   that 20 to 30 people died from the initial explosion. ’ ’   But investigators at the scene are now concerned with another   potential threat: The terrorist group may have developed and used   a new type of bomb. ’ ’   ”We’’ve never seen it before, and it’’s very worrying,” a Western   security source in Baghdad told the . ’ ’   So far, investigators have determined that the type of explosives   and the way the chemicals were assembled in the van differed from   the traditional methods inside the   country. ’ ’   This may explain how the explosion from the VBIED had left no   distinctive crater, and that the impact from the initial   explosion left buildings in the neighborhood still intact. ’ ’   Explosive experts told the BBC that the chemical composition was   unique and that it was difficult to make. ’ ’   ”We are used to big fires, but the chemicals in this bomb were   used for the first time in Iraq,” said Brig. Gen. Kadhim Bashir   Saleh of the Civil Defense Force. ”It was unique, strange, and   terrible.” ’ ’   Other unnamed experts told the BBC that the blast itself was ”as   hot as the surface of the sun.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Investigators believe that the   who most likely   assembled the explosives in nearby Fallujah, took a formula on   the internet and adjusted it to increase its volatility. The   adjustments also made the bomb more difficult for Iraqi security   forces to detect before the detonation. ’ ’   ISIS has found considerable success in using VBIEDs for both   terror attacks and as a military tactic. A Baghdad police   captain  to ISIS bombs as ”works of art” because of their   precision and ability to cause mass casualties. ’ ”   Iraqi security forces believe that the majority of ISIS’ VBIEDs   are constructed in the areas around Fallujah, which was recently   retaken by Baghdad from the terror group. In order to help limit   the flow of these weapons out of the area and into Baghdad, 40   miles away, Iraq has started to  around Fallujah with the goal to force all   traffic onto a single road, in and out of the city, to allow for   better screening of vehicles. ”