’  ’ ’   Uber is planning to drop a cool $500 million to end its reliance   on Google. ’ ’   The   company is working on a major mapping project,    sending a fleet of   mapping vehicles across the US and Mexico  —   with similar efforts   planned for other countries. ’ ’   Uber declined to comment on how much it was spending on this   project, : half a billion dollars. ’ ”   Worth more than $60 billion, Uber is Silicon Valley’s largest   private startup. It has aggressively expanded across the world,   but it remains reliant on Google to provide the mapping data that   powers its   service. ” ”   Uber and Google have historically been close, with  in what was Google Ventures’ largest deal at the   time. ” ’’ ’   But the two companies are now increasingly starting to look like   rivals, with both investing heavily in technology for     cars  —   and . ’ ”   It’s no surprise, then, that Uber wants to have its own mapping   data to work with.   —   which will only make Uber   more keen to become truly independent. ” ’   ”Existing maps are a good starting point, but some information   isn’’t that relevant to Uber, like ocean topography,” . ”There are other things we   need to know a lot more about, like traffic patterns and precise   pickup and dropoff locations. Moreover, we need to be able to   provide a seamless experience in parts of the world where there   aren’’t detailed maps  —   or street signs.” ’ ’   (Side note: McClendon,  used to head up Google Maps at   Google.) ’ ’   McClendon also says this mapping project will aid Uber’’s     plans like autonomous vehicles: ”Over the past   decade mapping innovation has disrupted industries and changed   daily life in ways I couldn’’t have imagined when I started. That   progress will only accelerate in the coming years especially with   technologies like   cars. I remain excited by the   prospect of how maps can put the world at our fingertips, improve   everyday life, impact billions of people and enable innovations   we can’’t even imagine today.” ’