’  ’ ’   Republican Sens. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and Kelly   Ayotte of New Hampshire delivered blistering rebukes of Donald   Trump on Sunday for his attacks against the family of Humayun   Khan, a Muslim American solider who was killed serving the US in   the Iraq War. ’ ’   ”This is going to a place where we’’ve never gone before, to push   back against the families of the fallen,” Graham . ”There used to be some things   that were sacred in American politics  —   that you don’’t do  —   like   criticizing the parents of a fallen soldier even if they   criticize you.” ’ ’   Graham, a onetime 2016 presidential hopeful, has not endorsed   Trump, the Republican nominee. ’ ’   ”If you’’re going to be the leader of the free world, you have to   be able to accept criticism,” the South Carolina Republican said.   ”Mr. Trump can’’t. The problem is, ’’unacceptable’’ doesn’’t even   begin to describe it.” ’ ’   Ayotte, who has said she will vote for Trump, said she was   ”appalled” by the Republican nominee’’s attacks. The New Hampshire   senator’’s husband is an Iraq War veteran. ’ ’   ”There is no greater sacrifice than to lay down one’’s life for   their country, and that’’s the sacrifice that Capt. Humayun Khan   made fighting to defend our freedom and our constitutional   rights,” . ”He was a true American hero. The   Khan family deserves nothing less than our deepest support,   respect, and gratitude, and they have every right to express   themselves in any way they choose. ’ ’   ”I am appalled that Donald Trump would disparage them and that he   had the gall to compare his own sacrifices to those of a Gold   Star family,” she continued, using the term for relatives of   those killed in military service. ’ ’  ’ ’   Trump  morning that he could not understand why he   was earning scorn for questioning the two Gold Star parents who   slammed him during a speech at the Democratic National Convention   in Philadelphia on Thursday night. ’ ’   ”I was viciously attacked by Mr. Khan at the Democratic   Convention,” the Republican nominee for president said . ”Am I not allowed to respond?” ’ ’   Khizr Khan, speaking alongside his wife, Ghazala, offered a   powerful rebuke of Trump on the final night of the DNC. ’ ’   In an   speech, Khan questioned whether Trump had ever   read the US Constitution or sacrificed anything for his country. ’ ’   Trump  on Saturday, suggesting that Ghazala Khan might not   have been permitted to speak at the convention because of her   Muslim religion. The   mogul further argued that he had   indeed sacrificed for his country, saying he created jobs. ’ ’   Trump’’s remarks were widely condemned, and the billionaire   eventually began walking them back. In a     statement, he called the Khans’’ son a ”hero to our country” and   tried to shift the issue to what he described as ”the real   problem,” or ”the radical Islamic terrorists who killed him.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Khizr Khan  that Trump’’s questions about his wife represented   the ”height of ignorance.” ’ ”   Ghazala Khan also wrote an   article in The Washington Post   saying she didn’t speak at the DNC because she found it too   painful to think about her son. ” ’   ”Without saying a thing, all the world, all America, felt my   pain,” she wrote. ’ ”   Trump’s running mate, Gov. Mike Pence of Indiana,  in an attempt to clear up   the attacks. ” ’   Pence said he and Trump thought Khan was ”an American hero and   his family, like all Gold Star families, should be cherished by   every American.” ’ ’   ”Captain Khan gave his life to defend our country in the global   war on terror,” Pence wrote. ”Due to the disastrous decisions of   Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton, a once stable Middle East has   now been overrun by ISIS. This must not stand. ’ ’   ”By suspending immigration from countries that have been   compromised by terrorism, rebuilding our military, defeating ISIS   at its source, and projecting strength on the global stage, we   will reduce the likelihood that other American families will face   the enduring heartbreak of the Khan family. Donald Trump will   support our military and their families, and we will defeat the   enemies of our freedom.” ’ ’ Oliver Darcy contributed to this report. ’