’  ’ ”   When you’re managing a team, you may find your discussions   consistently being dominated by your most outspoken employee, or   even yourself, with your employees eagerly agreeing with all of   your conclusions. ” ’   This, of course, is not the most productive scenario. ’ ’   Performance coach  and he addressed this particular   problem. A viewer asked, ”How can I turn my team from followers   into collaborators?” ’ ’   ”You have to make the environment safe,” Robbins replied. ”I know   that sounds corny as     but people have to feel like they can   share ideas and the ideas aren’’t going to be attacked and   destroyed.” ’ ”   Robbins is   for his   books and seminars,   but in addition to running his own companies, he’s   personally coached executives like Salesforce founder and CEO   Marc Benioff. ” ’   ”Most great creativity comes out of brainstorming all kinds of   ideas and in all our environments and all of our companies, we   have a simple rule: In the brainstorming stage, you can’’t   make any negative comments,” Robbins said. ’ ’   ”There are no bad ideas,” he said. ”Because a bad idea can often   trigger you to think of something that is actually a good idea.   The secret is not to stop the flow and just get everything out as   fast as you can.” ’ ”   Teams comprising followers rather than collaborators are ones   where employees are afraid of rejection, of hurting their   standing within their company. It’s the manager’s responsibility,   Robbins explained, to explicitly state that   in   creative discussions will only limit their impact. It’s also up   to the manager to keep the more headstrong members of the group   from interrupting their colleagues or crushing their ideas as   soon as they’re presented. ” ’   ”If you show people that they’’re heard, that their ideas get   implemented, if it’’s safe, you usually can get a much higher   level of participation than most companies do,” Robbins said. ’ ’   You can watch the full Q&A below. ’ ’ ’