’  ’ ’   Megyn Kelly had one word for Eric Trump after he explained what   he thought his sister Ivanka would do if she were being sexually   harassed in the workplace. ’ ’   ”Sigh,” she  with a link to Trump’’s comments. ’ ’   Appearing on ”CBS This Morning,” Trump was asked about the     suit that led to the ouster of Fox News   chairman and CEO Roger Ailes. The suit was filed by former host   Gretchen Carlson, and numerous women have since come forward to   detail instances of workplace sexual harassment they said Ailes   committed against them. ’ ’   Kelly was one of those women, . She has yet to comment on the Ailes matter   publicly. ’ ’   The question posed to Eric Trump was framed after his father,   Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump, said he hoped   Ivanka would find a new job if she were being sexually harassed   at work. The ”CBS This Morning” host Charlie Rose asked Eric   Trump whether his father stood by those statements. ’ ’’ ’   ”There is no question that that should obviously be addressed,   and it should be addressed strongly,” Eric Trump said. ”Hey,   listen, we all run a company, my father runs a company, we take   this  —   that is an absolute   anywhere, and that’’s very much   the case. ’ ’   ”I think what he’’s saying is, Ivanka is a strong, powerful woman,   she wouldn’’t allow herself to be objected to it, and by the way,   you should take it up with human resources, and I think she would   as a strong person, at the same time, I don’’t think she would   allow herself to be subjected to that,” he continued. ”I think   that’’s a point he was making, and I think he did so well.” ’ ’   The GOP nominee made his original comment while addressing the   Ailes suit with  on Monday. ’ ’   ”There was quite a bit of fabulous things said” about Ailes by   Carlson, he said. ”It would be easier for me and more politically   correct for me to say you are right. But you would think she   wouldn’’t say those things.” ’ ’   He acknowledged that he ”didn’’t know it was more than just her”   when Powers told him more women had come forward. ’ ’   Asked about a case in which Ivanka were in such a situation,   Trump said he would ”like to think she would find another career   or find another company if that was the case.” ’