’  ’ ’   Khizr Khan, the father of a slain Muslim American soldier who has   engaged in a    with Donald Trump over the past   several days, on Tuesday excoriated the Republican nominee for    at a   campaign rally. ’ ’   Khan, whose son died protecting his unit in Iraq, said Trump   should have given the medal back. He also accused Trump of   dodging the Vietnam War draft. ’ ’   ”You should have pinned that back to that veteran’’s chest and   should have hugged him and thanked him,” Khan said in an   interview with CNN’’s Anderson Cooper. ”If he would have been   sensible, he would have known what it takes to earn that Purple   Heart.” ’ ’ in Ashburn, Virginia, Trump said a   veteran in the audience had offered him his medal, given to   military members who are wounded or killed while serving. He   thanked the lieutenant colonel onstage and joked: ”I always   wanted to get the Purple Heart. This was much easier.” ’ ”   But Khan clearly did not find Trump’s comments amusing. ” ’   ”You had your chance. You escaped. You dodged the draft,” Khan   said, referring to a recent  in The New York Times that said Trump received five   deferments during the Vietnam War. ”And now you want an easy   Purple Heart in your pocket?” ’ ’  ’ ’   Khan became visibly emotional at times during the interview with   Cooper, and at one point he apologized for raising his voice. ’ ”   Trump  on Monday for appearing on television   multiple times after speaking at the Democratic National   Convention last week. In the convention speech, which catapulted   Khan and his wife to national prominence, he slammed the   Republican nominee for his comments about veterans and Muslim   immigration, and he questioned Trump’s knowledge of the US   Constitution. ” ’   Trump subsequently mused on whether Khan’’s wife, Ghazala, was   permitted to speak during the speech, prompting her to write in   an editorial in The Washington Post that ”without saying a thing,   all the world, all America, felt my pain.” ’ ’ ’ ’Khizr Khan on the veteran who gave Trump his Purple Heart:”You should have pinned that back to that veteran’’s chest” ’