’  ’ ’   Ever since the 1936 Berlin Olympics became the first ever sports   event to be televised live, the Games have been associated with   innovation in broadcasting. ’ ’   There was the Tokyo Olympics in 1964, which were filmed in colour    —   two years before the BBC switched on colour broadcasting  —     while the 1984 Los Angeles Games were the testing ground for HD   television. ’ ’   Rio will continue the trend. Major broadcasters, including   NBC, the BBC and Japan’s NHK will experiment with virtual   reality, super high definition, and drone technology in Brazil as   they attempt to engage audiences in new ways. ’ ’   As Olympic broadcasting veteran and the BBC’s former head of   major events, Dave Gordon, points out: “If at the Olympics you   aren’t pushing the technological boundaries to the absolute   limit, then you’re failing. ” ’ ’   Ahead of the opening ceremony in Rio on Friday, here’s what to   expect from the next fortnight of sporting action. ’ ’  ’ ’   Olympic Broadcasting Services (OBS) the International Olympic   Committee body responsible for coordinating TV coverage of   the Games, will be filming virtual reality footage from different   venues everyday in Rio. ’ ’   VR footage of sport, including athletics and beach volleyball, as   well as the opening and closing ceremonies, will be made   available to international broadcasters, and NBC and the BBC will   be among those to take advantage. ’ ’ while the BBC   will make the coverage available through a special app. Users   will be able to view this using Samsung Gear VR or Google   Cardboard, Google’s affordable VR headset. ’ ’   “It’s amazing technology and it is developing more and more,” Ron   Chakraborty, the BBC’s major events boss, told Business Insider. ’ ”   UK broadcasters have already experimented filming VR footage of   sport. Sky captured   footage of a Manchester City and   Arsenal’s Premier League game in May, while BT Sport used the   technology to film an NBA Global Games match between Orlando   Magic and Toronto Raptors at the O2 earlier this year. ” ’  ’ ’   There has been an explosion in drone technology in TV since the   London 2012 Olympics and broadcasters will experiment with   hovering cameras in Rio. ’ ’   The BBC is working with OBS to provide international broadcasters   with coverage of the rowing and Chakraborty said drone   cameras could help make it the “star” of the Olympics. ’ ’   The broadcaster is deploying two drones at the Rodrigo de Freitas   Lagoon and the hope is that they will provide a unique   perspective on the action. ’ ’   Dave Gordon, who is working as a consultant at OBS in Rio, said   the drones will help avoid the “distorted view” supplied by more   traditional   cameras during the rowing. ’ ’   But safety is key. “We’re having to be very careful with these   things to make sure they don’t fly over the public and they have   to have a    space when they land. Trying to find that   space is quite tricky,” explained Chakraborty. ’ ’   Broadcasters are keen to avoid a repeat of the incident with   alpine skier Marcel Hirscher last year, when he was inches away   from being hit by a   drone at a competition in Italy. ’ ’ ’ ’  ’ ’   NBC is leading the way here. The US network plans to broadcast   hundreds of hours of ultra HD coverage, also known as 4K, during   the Rio Games. ’ ’   It will cover athletics, swimming, men’s football, and judo using   the technology, which is four times high definition. There is a   catch, however: it will be on a   time delay, given the   processing time required to produce the footage. ’ ’   Viewers will need a 4K ready television to watch the action.   Prices start at around $300 (£224) for a 4K Westinghouse in the   US. ’ ’   The BBC will be testing 4K behind closed doors during the   Olympics, meaning it will not be available to the British public.   The only UK broadcaster to make meaningful progress on 4K to date   is BT Sport, which has an Ultra HD channel. ’ ’  ’ ’   “4K is a small stepping stone to Super ” Gordon told   Business Insider. Super   or 8K, is 16 times better   than HD and some see it as the future of television. ’ ”   OBS is recording 130 hours of 8K footage, most of which will be   downgraded into 4K for international broadcasters. Japan’s NHK   will be the only broadcaster in the world to broadcast 8K   coverage of certain events. ” ’   Consumer televisions are not yet 8K ready, so NHK will air the   footage to the public at its broadcasting centres around Japan.   The ambition is to build the technology’s profile ahead of the   2020 Games in Tokyo. ’ ’   Gordon explained: “8K is absolutely sensational. You see the   gymnastics in 8k and you can see the hair out of place on the   gymnast’s head. ” ’ ’   The BBC experimented with 8K alongside NHK in 2012 and even   showcased some footage of events, such as the opening ceremony,   to members of the public after the Olympics. The British   broadcaster is keeping its powder dry this year, however. ’ ’   Chakraborty explained: “All the broadcasters are across it and   know it’s where TV is going, but it costs a lot of money and   there are not many people with 8K televisions. We’re all waiting   to see when the take up justifies the investment. ’ ’   “We said to OBS we would rather see one sport done really well,   rather than tapping into lots of sports with one or two cameras.   That will gradually happen and it will be big for Tokyo 2020. ” ’ ’  ’ ’   In 2012, the BBC launched 24 HD television channels to cover   every moment of the London Games. The TV channels are gone this   year, but the BBC will provide the same experience again  —   only   it will all be available online instead. ’ ’   “We invented the technology to do that and achieved it,” said   Gordon, who helped oversee the BBC’s output in 2012. ’ ’   Such is the progress the BBC has made in this area, providing   comprehensive online coverage of Glastonbury and Wimbledon,   viewers now expect to be able to watch major events live at any   time on their internet connected devices. ’ ’   The BBC is far from alone in live streaming in Rio. . ’