’   Good morning! Here are the plays everybody will be talking about   on Wednesday. ’ ’Joey Votto snaps at a fan and then   apologizes. In the 7th inning of a   game, Reds   first baseman Joey Votto reached into the first row of the stands   to catch a foul ball and dropped it when he collided with a fan   also reaching for the ball. Votto reacted angrily by grabbing the   Reds logo on the fans shirt as if to say, ”Et tu, Brute?” Later,   Votto autographed a ball for the fan and posed for a photo with   him. The ball read, ”Thanks for being so understanding when I   acted out of character  —   Joey Votto.” Classy move by Votto. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’     ’ ”MLB umpire ejected a Phillies fan for   heckling. Well, this is one you don’t see too   often. Home plate umpire Bob Davidson ejected a Phillies fan for   heckling. What is even more bizarre is that the fan wasn’t really   that close to the field. It looks like he is sitting about 20   rows or so behind the third base dugout. No idea what the fan was   saying but it must have been bad. ” ’ ’ ’     ’ ”Jordan Clarkson made a lot of long   in   practice. If there is ever a time when it is OK to   overreact to a   clip from a practice, this might be it.   It is one thing to make a lot of   in practice when   nobody is guarding you. It is another thing to make 15     in a row. But it is something else entirely when   you make 15   in a row from the   circle.   That’s what Clarkson, the Lakers’   guard does here.   This probably won’t make Clarkson the next Stephen Curry, but it   does suggest that the NBA court is getting bigger and defenders   are going to have to start guarding out to the   stripe   soon, because teams are taking this shot seriously. ” ’ ’ ’The brodie  has been working on extending his range.  fans, get excited!   ’ ’     ’ ”A    bonus. The Orioles had      Zion Harvey throw out the first pitch prior to Tuesday’s game.   Harvey was the first person to ever undergo a bilateral hand   transplant.  ” ’ ’ ’Tonight, Zion Harvey, the first child in the world to undergo a bilateral hand transplant, threw the first pitch.’ ’     ’