A Tennessee woman who is accused of trying to abort her fetus at 24 weeks with a coat hanger last year is facing new felony charges, in a case that has raised concerns among some   advocates over strict abortion laws. The case concerning the woman, Anna Yocca, 32, has wound its way through the courts in Rutherford County for nearly a year, seesawing between multiple charges in three indictments as she has continued to sit in a central Tennessee jail. On Monday, Ms. Yocca was arraigned on new charges: aggravated assault, an attempt to procure a miscarriage and an attempted criminal abortion. She entered a plea of not guilty, The Daily News Journal reported. Ms. Yocca’s public defender, Gerald Melton, did not respond to multiple requests for comment by email or telephone. Hugh Ammerman, the Rutherford County assistant district attorney who is prosecuting the case, could not be reached early on Tuesday. Ms. Yocca was first charged on Dec. 8, 2015, with the attempted murder of her    fetus in September 2015. She was booked into the Rutherford County jail, where she has remained, with bond set at $200, 000. She is expected to return to court on Dec. 9, The Journal reported. The case has pitted   advocates against defenders of the state’s   laws, which are among the strictest in the country. The authorities have said that Ms. Yocca climbed into a bathtub in September 2015 and tried to “ ” her pregnancy, which caused her to bleed so profusely that she was taken to a hospital, The Murfreesboro Post reported, quoting a police report. The baby, a boy, was delivered alive by cesarean section at the hospital, weighing 1. 5 pounds, but he had injuries, The Murfreesboro Post reported. The police report, quoting unidentified physicians, blamed Ms. Yocca’s probing with the hanger, but it offered no medical evidence for what the indictment called bodily injury, and similar health problems are often associated with extreme prematurity. When contacted for a copy of the report, Sergeant Kyle Evans, a spokesman for the Murfreesboro Police Department, referred calls to the district attorney’s office. The case has drawn attention to strict abortion laws, and in some cases the criminalization of the procedure, as   Donald J. Trump prepares to take office. During his presidential campaign, Mr. Trump pledged to roll back the abortion rights guaranteed by the 1973 Roe v. Wade Supreme Court decision, and he suggested  “punishment” for abortion providers and their patients. In his first   television interview after he won the presidency, he repeated his desire to see Roe v. Wade overturned and said, of women seeking abortions, “Well, they’ll perhaps have to go  —   they’ll have to go to another state. ” “I think that this is a very shocking case and one that is incredibly tragic,” said Allison Glass, the director of Healthy and Free Tennessee, which promotes sexual health. “This is not a common case for Tennessee, but with the threat of Roe being overturned,” she added, “that is absolutely where we are headed. ” Tennessee Right to Life representatives did not respond to multiple requests for comment. The baby was initially placed in foster care. Last week Rob Johnson, a spokesman for the Tennessee Department of Children’s Services, said by telephone that the child was “safe” but no longer in state custody. Citing confidentiality, he declined to answer further questions. The law in Tennessee permits abortions after 24 weeks  —   about the limit for fetal viability outside the womb, doctors say  —   if the woman’s life or health is at risk. It also requires women to receive   counseling and wait 48 hours before the procedure, which necessitates multiple trips to a clinic. Ms. Glass said that only four out of 95 counties in Tennessee had abortion clinics, and that Rutherford County was not one of them. Lynn M. Paltrow, the executive director of National Advocates for Pregnant Women, which is helping with Ms. Yocca’s defense, said the case was one of several   instances showing what can happen when prosecutors apply criminal law to women’s pregnancies. Last year, an Indiana woman, Purvi Patel, was sentenced to 20 years in prison after she was convicted of feticide for taking pills to terminate her pregnancy, and then delivering a baby who, the jury found, died from neglect. The conviction was vacated on appeal. In some states pregnant women have been charged with attempted feticide for falling down stairs for not wearing a seatbelt and for trying to commit suicide while pregnant, Ms. Paltrow said. In Ms. Yocca’s case, Ms. Paltrow said, “It is absolutely not clear to us that her intention was to have an abortion, as opposed to having an early birth at home, or some other reason. ” “This is the problem around the criminal justice system being involved in pregnancy outcomes,” she added. “In a country where more and more things have been criminalized, there is a virtually limitless number of crimes that prosecutors can chose from if we allow pregnancy to become the subject of criminal justice and court systems. ”