’  ’ ’   Many schools with massive endowments are not doing enough to   invest in   students, according to a controversial new   report by the Education Trust, a nonprofit organization. ’ ’   The report, called  reviewed the spending   figures of schools with endowments of at least $500 million. ’ ’   Dubbing those schools the ”$500 million club,” the report found   that while these institutions represented about 3. 6% of all   colleges and universities nationwide, they held 75% of the   endowment wealth. ’ ’   Still, nearly half of institutions in the   $500 million   club are in the bottom 5% in terms of enrollment of       Pell Grant recipients, according to the report. ’ ’   The Education Trust also carves out the institutions that spend   less than 5% annually from their endowment, choosing that   benchmark because other nonprofit entities are required to spend   5% annually. College and university endowments are exempt from   this requirement from the federal government. ’ ’  ’ ’   Harvard University is one of the schools on the list with more   than $500 million in endowment funds, but it spent less that 5%   of its endowment in 2013, according to the   data the   report utilized. ’ ”   Harvard’s 2013 endowment was $29. 7 billion, . The fiscal year 2015 IRS form   is not yet available, but recent reports from Harvard have placed   its endowment at  making it the largest university endowment in   the world. ” ’   Endowment income has come under increased scrutiny as elite   schools have funds that balloon year after year. ’ ”   In January,  of America’s massively endowed colleges and   universities, as it proposed that schools with endowments of more   than $1 billion use 25% of their annual endowment income on   student financial aid. ” ”   The draft bill, sponsored by Rep. Tom Reed, a Republican from New   York, also stipulates that schools would lose their nonprofit   status if they didn’t comply with the requirement for three   consecutive years. ” ’   But universities have balked at such proposals, arguing that   endowment spending is a much more complex issue. ’ ’   The endowment is not like  Robert Reischauer, an economist and former   senior fellow of the Harvard Corporation, argued in The New York   Times. ’ ’   Still, the Education Trust believes that colleges should be doing   more with their endowment funds to help   students. ’ ’   ”Leaders of wealthy institutions have real opportunity and power   to use their wealth to extend the American dream of higher   education to more   students,” José Luis Santos, one of   the report’’s authors, . ’