’  ’ ’   Over the past decade, the US has undergone an opioid epidemic. ’ ’   Prescriptions for opioid painkillers like oxycodone,   hydrocodone, fentanyl, and   —   and, with them, the . ’ ’   The trend has been decades in the making. ’ ’   Increases in painkiller prescriptions are linked to a ”big push”   in the early 1990s from medical groups encouraging doctors to   treat pain more aggressively, according to Dr. Ted Cicero, a   professor of psychiatry at Washington University in St. Louis and   an   researcher. ’ ’   Though the increased focus on pain treatment resulted in   increases in opioid prescriptions in most doctors initially, for   years now, pain specialists have advocated using alternative   treatments to alleviate their patients’ chronic pain. ’ ’   There’s one problem: Health insurance companies are   increasingly cutting reimbursements for these alternative   treatments or not covering them at all. ’ ’   Steroid injections, joint injections, fluid injections, physical   therapy, nerve blocks, and     ablation are just a few of the treatments advocated by pain   specialists in place of opioids. Such treatments are frequently   called interventional pain treatments. ’ ’ Secretary of the Massachusetts Society of   Interventional Pain Physicians, told Business Insider. ’ ’  ’ ’   The policies of insurance companies have forced doctors to   increasingly offer pain patients a difficult choice, according   to  ’ ’   Pay for expensive alternative treatments    use   opioids, and possibly suffer a myriad of side effects and risk   opioid addiction, or choose to do nothing and live with   debilitating pain. ’ ’   “Even if we want to climb a population out of the well of the   opioid epidemic and give alternatives, we can’t,”  ”Patients can’t afford the   alternatives and insurance companies won’t cover them.” ’ ’   In some cases, insurance companies have classified widely   accepted procedures in recent years as “experimental” or   “investigational,” therefore making them ineligible for   reimbursement, despite decades of common use. ’ ’   Pain physicians brought up one such procedure again and   again in conversations with Business Insider:     ablation. First used in 1931, the procedure entails a physician   using electric currents to decrease pain signals from the   specific nerve causing a patient pain. ’ ’   While policies vary among insurance companies  —  and even among   different insurance plans at the same company  —   doctors say they   have increasingly found   ablation on the chopping   block, despite continued enthusiasm for the procedure. ’ ’     ablation has been “   ’ ’   A 2016 United Healthcare policy called studies of     ablation for conditions other than facet joint   nerves “. ” ’ ’   ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’he usage of   ablation specifically for the   sacroiliac joint  —   which “experimental” or   ”investigational.” T ’ ’   This situation is not unusual, according to Pearl, who says that   insurance companies have cut back on or cut completely     procedures under the rationale that doctors   or researchers haven’t proven their “efficacy. ” ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’   Shah said doctors appealing coverage decisions must fill out   extensive paperwork, submit to ”  ” reviews with the   medical director of the health plan and, in some cases, submit to   a second ” ” review that starts the process all   over again. Shah said the appeals process is ”time   consuming,” ”eats up countless days of work” and administrative   costs for physicians, and rarely succeeds. It   leaves patients back at ”square one”  —   managing their pain   on   opioids. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’    ’ ’   The system seems sensible enough, but the field of chronic pain   is   to such an approach for a number of reasons,   according to pain specialists. ’ ’   ’ ’   ’ ’   Another issue is that there are a limited number of     clinical studies for pain treatments. While this is partially   because pain treatment is a relatively young medical discipline,   the bigger issue is that pain studies are fundamentally difficult   to recruit for, according to Mehta  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   In theory, competition among insurers should fix the coverage   problem, according to Schweitzer. If consumers want the   alternative pain treatments, they will move toward plans that   cover them, thus pushing other insurers to cover them as well. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’