’  ’ ”   Barack Obama strode to the stage at last month’s Democratic   National Convention in an unusual speaking slot. ” ’   He spoke in the primetime hour Wednesday night, a spot typically   reserved for a   nominee. ’ ”   In 2000, for instance, former President Bill Clinton spoke on   Monday night of   nominee Al Gore’s convention.   Former President George W. Bush, deeply unpopular in his second   term, didn’t show up for   nominee John McCain’s   party in 2008. ” ”   Obama’s speaking slot was by design. It previewed an outsize   role in his final campaign: Electing Hillary Clinton to be his   successor in the White House. ” ’   ”President Obama gives Hillary Clinton a hat trick: He can help   unite the party by bringing out Bernie Sanders supporters into   her camp, deliver an aggressive contrast about the threat posed   by Donald Trump, and ensure that all the supporters of the Obama   coalition show up in November,” Ben LaBolt, a former spokesman   for Obama’’s presidential campaigns, told Business Insider earlier   this year. ’ ”   Obama is prepared to campaign for his party’s presidential   nominee more than any sitting president in recent   history. That could be a big problem for the GOP and its   nominee, Donald Trump. And a huge boon for Clinton. ” ”   The president’s approval rating got its own convention bump: In a    conducted after the   convention, 54% of Americans said they approved of Obama’s job   performance. It was his highest mark since right before his   second inauguration in 2013. Just 45% disapproved. ” ”   That number is significant. Earlier this year, an     Street Journal poll found that President Barack Obama’s approval   rating had jumped to 51%  —   its highest point since his second   inauguration.  ” ’   NBC’’s team of political analysts called it the ”most important   number” out of the poll. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Early this year, Obama’s approval rating hit 50% in the   weekly average from Gallup’s daily survey. As of Friday, it   stands at 51%. For Obama, whose approval ratings have been   stuck in the   to  % range for much of his second term,   it was a notable bump. ” ’   ”While it’’s hard to pinpoint precisely why Obama’’s approval   rating has risen among Democrats recently, there are a number of   plausible explanations,” wrote Andrew Dugan, a Gallup analyst,   and Frank Newport, the organization’’s    in a post   earlier this year. ’ ’   One of the explanations, the pair concurred, was that ”the   unusual status of the Republican primary race  —   exemplified in   particular by frontrunner Donald Trump’’s campaign style and   rhetoric  —   may serve to make Obama look statesmanlike in   comparison.” ’ ’  ’ ”   Trump has come into Obama’s crosshairs repeatedly as he has hit   the trail for Clinton. And with good reason: More so than at any   other presidential   in recent history, so many elements   of the current administration’s legacy are at stake. ” ’   The Republican nominee has pledged to undo signature achievements   on healthcare (the Affordable Care Act) the environment   (historic new regulations aimed at curbing climate change) and   foreign policy (the Iran nuclear deal). ’ ’   Those themes will become evident as the president launches   into what will be his final campaign: Preventing a Trump   presidency. ’ ’  ’ ”   Obama’s approval ratings at this point are far better than those   of Bush, his predecessor, off whose unpopularity Obama thrived   during his 2008 run. His level is most directly comparable   to former President Ronald Reagan, who in March 1988 held a 51%   approval rating, according to Gallup.  ” ”   That same year, voters selected George H. W. Bush  —   Reagan’s vice   president  —   to succeed him.  ” ’   ”Yes,” said Ari Fleischer, President George W. Bush’’s former   press secretary, when asked earlier this year if Obama’’s apparent   rising popularity poses a problem for the Republican Party. ’ ’   ”Certainly, going into an election spring and summer, it’s better   to have an incumbent president increasingly popular rather than   less popular if you’re the incumbent party,” he told Business   Insider. ’ ’   The numbers present a striking contrast to some data points   associated with the current Republican presidential frontrunner. ’ ’  ’ ’   A recent  that 42% of voters   view Trump in a ”highly unfavorable” light, compared with 16% who   see him highly favorably. That’’s the highest negative percentage   for any major presidential candidate since at least 1956,   according to Gallup. ’ ’   ”I’’ve been doing this [since] 1964, which is the Goldwater   years,”     Peter Hart  of the relative unpopularity of   many of the candidates earlier in the year. ”To me, this is the   low point. I’’ve seen the disgust and the polarization. Never,   never seen anything like this. They’’re not going up; they’’re   going down.” ’ ’   Closest to Trump? Clinton, whom 33% of the electorate views   highly unfavorably. ’ ”   It helps explain why Clinton is attaching herself to   much of Obama’s legacy. And Obama remains favorable to wide   swaths of constituencies that Clinton needs to turn out to   vote in November. The president holds high approval ratings   among   (90%) Democrats (82%) Latinos (73%)   and voters aged 18 to 34 (64%) according to Gallup. ” ”   And despite the strong primary challenge from Sen. Bernie   Sanders, in many ways, Clinton has run an     campaign, and she has had much of the party’s establishment   rallying behind her candidacy. ” ”   As Gallup’s Dugan and Newport wrote earlier this year: ” ’   They concluded: ”Prior to that, George H. W. Bush in 1988   presented himself as a natural heir to the Reagan legacy and was   able to win his own term.” ’