’  ’ ’   Tesla reported  last   week, but in typical fashion, the market shrugged them off. ’ ’   Shares continue to hover around $230, after having climbed back   from a huge dip in early 2016 that saw them plummet to near $150. ’ ”   On Wall Street, everyone is reassessing their investor   relationship with Elon Musk’s   maker  —   especially now   that Tesla has decided, through the $2. 6 billion acquisition of   SolarCity, to transform itself into a   purveyor of   green energy and sustainable lifestyles. ” ”   But something interesting is now happening with Tesla’s stock  —     after a lengthy period of notable volatility. ” ”   Since the beginning of the year, Tesla shares have been moving   more or less in parallel with other automakers. At Business   Insider, we follow General Motors, Ford, Fiat Chrysler   Automobiles, Ferrari, and Tesla closely  —   so I’ve overlaid all   five on this chart: ” ’  ’ ”   As you can see, Tesla has higher highs and lower lows. But   otherwise in 2016 its stock has mirrored the moves of the rest of   its sector. (A note on FCA trading well below its peers:   Ferrari’s initial public offering took a lot of value out of the   company, and that’s why you see a huge dip at the start of the   year.) ” ”   To be honest, I was a little surprised when I saw this. But if   you control for Tesla’s    episodes, which are driven   more by news than by anything financially fundamental, the story   becomes clear: Tesla is turning into a real car company. ” ”   I’m not sure Musk is happy about this. Tesla has never wanted to   be a real car company. In fact, its willful resistance to doing   things the way everyone else does has been both an advantage and   a liability. ” ”   It’s a plus that Tesla has set itself in opposition to a   traditional and often hidebound industry. But it’s a negative for   the company to be turning itself into a   carmaker with   the sensibility of a startup. ” ’   The former has made Tesla the most impressive car brand to come   along in decades. The latter has caused it to miss production and   delivery targets and to build vehicles, like the Model X SUV,   that are needlessly complicated. ’ ’  ’ ”   Even now, Tesla isn’t conceding its fate. Over the next two   years, it’s critically important that the company successfully   launch the Model 3, its $35, 000 car for the rest of us (versus   its $100, 000 luxury machines, like the models S and X). But Musk   doesn’t sound like he wants to scale in the conventional way. ” ’   Instead, he wants to reinvent something called ”vertical   integration,” which is the way car companies operated in the   periods before and just after World War II. Effectively, they did   everything themselves, as exemplified by Henry Ford’’s legendary   River Rouge factory, where train cars laden with iron ore rolled   up to one side and finished cars rolled out the other. ’ ”   Vertical integration was decisively displaced in the 1980s by     lean or    manufacturing, and the industry   hasn’t looked back. ” ’   Until now. ’ ”   Musk’s idea is that if he controls every aspect of production  —     he often points out that Tesla’s biggest constraint is that it’s   only as fast as its slowest supplier  —   he can radically improve   the manufacturing process. ” ’   This is the ”” concept, which he outlined on an earnings call   last week: His criteria for an innovative factory design is that   he’’ll know it’’s working when it no longer looks like a car plant,   but rather like an alien spaceship. ’ ’  ’ ”   On one hand, Musk isn’t arguing for some crazy new idea here;   futurists have speculated for decades about what a fully   automated manufacturing facility would be like. ” ’   On the other, this is kind of a convoluted way to build a   relatively inexpensive vehicle in the Model 3. If Tesla wanted   to, it could easily outsource production to a big industry player   like Magna and hit its production and delivery marks. ’ ’   But that would be the predictable thing to do. And Musk hates   predictable. ’ ”   However, Tesla’s story is shifting back to a Wall Street one. For   a long time, the tale was one of growth, disruption, and share   prices that rocketed from $20 to almost $300, delivering a gain   of more than 1, 000% to early investors. ” ’   But then the narrative was about Tesla becoming a much bigger   carmaker, with all the dreary plug and chug, nuts and bolts, and   blocking and tackling that such a shift demanded. ’ ”   Look where we are now  —   Tesla is once again a stock story. But   like all the other automakers, it’s a boring stock   story. Sure, the valuation is quite high. But even losses double   what analysts expected in the past quarter can’t take a toll. ” ’   This raises a huge question: If Tesla somehow notched a profit on   quarter, would the stock explode? ’ ”   I’d like to know. Unfortunately, there isn’t much chance of that   happening anytime soon. ”