’  ’ ’   Now might be the time to disable any biometric sensors on your   smartphone, unless you want the police to 3D print a replica of   your fingers and unlock it with ease. ’ ’   Police recently approached Michigan State University professor   Anil Jain and asked him to  so they could unlock his smartphone using its   biometric sensors. The man was a murder victim, and police   investigators though his phone might contain information   pertinent to the case. ’ ’   Such an attempt wouldn’t normally work, as the sensors used to   detect someone’s fingerprints rely on electrical currents that   most   objects can’t conduct. Police would only have 10   plastic fingers that couldn’t really do anything, which wouldn’t   help them get into the victim’s phone investigation. ’ ’   That’s where Jain comes in. He told Fusion that he “coated the 3D   printed fingers in a thin layer of metallic particles” so they   would be able to conduct electricity and, at least theoretically,   allow the police to use the ghastly phalanges to help find   whoever killed the man. ’ ’   In this case, the nightmarish technique could help police catch a   killer. But the implications this experiment has for everyone who   uses biometric security  —   or merely communicates with someone who   does  —   are chilling. ’ ’’ ’   First, there’s the problem of recreating fingerprints. Police had   their victim’s prints because he was arrested in the past. This   could mean that anyone with a criminal record will run the risk   of having their smartphone broken into by police. ’ ’   Plus there’s the risk of having someone  and recreating it that way. What, are people going   to have to wear gloves everywhere just to ensure that their   fingerprints are safe? ’ ’   That’s to say nothing of data breaches like the one   that  from the government’s Office of Personnel   Management’s servers in September 2015. ’ ’   Sure, there are efforts to develop fingerprint sensors that won’t   be tricked by fake fingers, but  and this case shows that police already want to   thwart the scanners used today. ’ ’   And even if someone does manage to keep their fingerprints to   themselves, using a biometric sensor could allow police   to without having to request a warrant. ’ ’   The best solution to all of these problems is to in the   first place. It’s not as convenient to enter a strong passcode,   but if someone wants to ensure that no one is able to access   their device without their permission, they absolutely should not   use their fingerprint to unlock that device. ’ ’   In this case, the man is dead and police are trying to find his   killer. But that won’t always be the case  —   and even if it was,   it’s not like the phone only has evidence of the man’s killer. It   probably has messages from friends, photographs, and other data   police could use to create issues for the living as they try to   help the dead. ’ ’   If any of this worries you, it’s probably time to rethink your   device’s security. ’