’’ ’Tim Cook has lost his temper in public exactly once during his tenure as Apple CEO.’ ”During the company’s annual shareholders meeting in 2014, a representative for a conservative think tank wanted Cook to commit to making moves that were profitable only for the company.” ”Cook’s rebuke was swift.” ’”When we work on making our devices accessible by the blind, I don’’t consider the bloody” return on investment, Cook said.’ ’”If you want me to do things only for ROI reasons, you should get out of this stock,” he continued.’ ”That moment of anger has been the best summation of Cook’s   viewpoint so far. But on Monday he doubled down in an interview .” ’”My belief is that companies should have values, like people do,” Cook .’ ’The Tim Cook era at Apple officially turns five this month, and one of the biggest changes is that the company has made several moves that might not make sense from an investor standpoint but do make for smart public policy.’ ”Some of Apple’s moves might not change the company’s top or bottom lines, but they make sense through a   view.” ’Some examples:’ ’Part of these moral stands come from the fact that Apple can plan for the long term, not just the next quarter.’ ’Earlier this year, Cook said he wanted Apple to be around for 1, 000 years, and he repeated that.’ ’”I want Apple to be here, you know, forever,” Cook told Fast Company.’ ’That   view allows Apple to  in   cars, healthcare products, and other new technologies that might never see the light of day.’ ’Apple is not the only public company, nor Cook the only CEO, starting to realize that   growth and policies that enrich all stakeholders might be a better strategy than maximizing   profits.’ ’Business Insider has published  looking at how a focus on   profits can hamstring big companies.’ ”But Apple’s stock price is still important. Many of Apple’s engineers get a substantial portion of their compensation in stock options, and the stock is still down 11% from its peak in the past year, even after a strong rally during the past month. Activist shareholders, like Carl Icahn, have  Apple. Others want Apple to focus on the products and not necessarily the company’s impact on culture.” ’For those investors obsessed with   returns, and who want Apple to stop taking political positions, Cook has a message: Get out of the stock.’