’     ’ ’  ’ ’   Love it or hate it, Bleacher Report has undeniably shaken up the     landscape. ’ ’   The site has continued to build its audience after a  sale to Turner in 2012, and   recently snagged a promised  from its parent company. It has   also tried to push beyond its early image as a ”” ’ ”   But despite those changes, there are still a lot of lessons to   learn from Bleacher Report’s early success. ” ’   CEO and cofounder Dave Finocchio has been there since the start.   He realized early on that there were ”pretty significant supply   and demand inefficiencies around sports content,” Finocchio says. ’ ”   Here’s the most basic example: the Major League Baseball     Game. ” ’   ”Every single outlet would cover that event like it was still   1975,” he says. ”And there’’s just not a lot of people who care   anymore, despite what baseball would lead you to believe. The   ratings are bad, the internet interest is bad. It’’s just not that   compelling anymore.” ’ ’   These games were oversaturated with coverage. ’ ’   On the other side were events that were begging to be covered.   Finocchio points particularly to ”transactional events”  —   the NFL   draft, the NBA   window, the NBA trade deadline  —   which   were really underserved. ’ ’   ”It was pretty obvious to see if you look closely that people   were obsessed with these events because they represented hope for   the future and human drama,” he says. ”It falls right into the   Venn diagram of everything that the people care about.” ’ ”   And it didn’t take any insane technology for Finocchio and his   fellow cofounders to test out their theories. ” ’   ”When I started working on this, Google Insights used to be a   very useful public product that not a lot of people knew about,   at first. And you could type in any single search term and you   could see over [a]   period how many people were actually   searching for the term. And so we started to be able to test all   of these different theories,” he said. ’ ”   While there wasn’t a    problem for the Boston Red   Sox and the New York Yankees, Finocchio found that there was for   teams like the Golden State Warriors. ” ’   ”It was very, very rare that there would be an original column   about the Warriors in those days,” he continues. ’ ’   Thinking about the   market as a      problem probably also pushed Bleacher Report toward its original   business model, which relied heavily on amateur bloggers   producing prodigious amounts of work. ’ ”   That had good and bad effects on the brand, but it’s clear   that  ”