’   Donald Trump suggested that proud gun owners could take matters   into their own hands if anyone decided to abolish the Second   Amendment. ’ ’   At a rally on Tuesday in North Carolina, Trump asserted that   Democratic presidential rival Hillary Clinton wants to   ”essentially abolish” the Second Amendment, a claim the Clinton   campaign has repeatedly denied. ’ ’   ”If she gets to pick her judges, nothing you can do, folks,”   Trump said, referring to appointments to the US Supreme Court.   ”All the Second Amendment people  —   maybe there is.” ’ ”   The Republican presidential candidate’s comments were somewhat   unclear as he flipped between praising the National Rifle   Association and warning of the threats of curbing access to   firearms. ” ’   ”Speaking to the NRA folks  —   who are great,” Trump said. ”If you   don’’t do the right thing, you’’re not going to have a Second   Amendment, or you’’re not going to have much of it left.” ’ ”   The Trump campaign quickly attempted to clarify the nominee’s   statement shortly after the speech. ” ’   ”It’’s called the power of unification  —   Second Amendment people   have amazing spirit and are tremendously unified, which gives   them great political power,” Jason Miller, the senior   communications adviser for the Trump campaign, said in a   statement. ”And this year, they will be voting in record numbers,   and it won’’t be for Hillary Clinton  —   it will be for Donald   Trump.” ’ ”   The Clinton campaign quickly condemned Trump’s comments. ” ’   ”This is simple  —   what Trump is saying is dangerous,” campaign   manager Robby Mook said in a statement. ”A person seeking to be   the president of the United States should not suggest violence in   any way.” ’ ’   The Clinton campaign has repeatedly pushed back on Trump for   claiming that Clinton wants to eliminate the Second Amendment.   The Democratic presidential candidate does support numerous     measures, including expanding background checks and   increasing regulations on gun sellers. ’ ’UPDATE: The US Secret Service issued the   following tweet Tuesday evening: ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tThe Secret Service is aware of the comments made earlier this afternoon. ’t’t’ ’ ’