’  ’ ’   Paul Ryan’’s primary opponent said that he was like ”David” going   up against ”the Leviathan”  —   a biblical sea monster  —   one day   after the House speaker defeated him in a landslide vote on   Tuesday. ’ ’   But Paul Nehlen, a Wisconsin businessman, does think that he came   up big against Ryan on a major issue. And he said that his next   mission will be working to get Republican nominee Donald Trump   elected president. ’ ’   In an interview with Business Insider, Nehlen, who called himself   a ”nobody,” said that he knew he was facing long odds.   . ’ ’   ”You’’re not just running against Paul Ryan, and I knew that going   in,” he said. ”You’’re up against the Chamber of Commerce, and the   Kochs, and Paul Singer, and all of those who want open borders.   All of those groups. I knew that going in. So some would say   David and Goliath  —   I was speaking to the Leviathan. This was   David and the Leviathan.” ’ ’   Nehlen said that the issue that ”got me into this race” was the     Partnership, a landmark   agreement among   the Pacific Rim nations that Ryan recently said had to be   renegotiated while meeting with Wisconsin manufacturing workers   on Monday. ’ ’   ”I don’’t think there’’s a high likelihood (of the TPP’’s passage)   right now because . .. we don’’t have the votes to pass it because   people like me have problems with some significant provisions of   it that we believe need to get fixed,” . ”But here’’s the point: we do need trade   agreements. I know a lot of people say just get rid of trade   agreements, don’’t do trade agreements, and that’’s terrible.   That’’s a problem for us.” ’ ’   The insurgent challenger considers that answer to be his major   win. ’ ’   ”I got Paul Ryan to reassure everybody that he had a soul,” he   said. ”I called him a soulless globalist. He had to go on the   radio and reassure everybody in Wisconsin’’s First District that   he had a soul.” ’ ’   ”Stop and think about that,” he continued. ”Think about that for   a minute. What I said was that he sold his soul. So the   definition of selling your soul means you don’’t have a soul. Can   you imagine if Nancy Pelosi’’s Democratic challenger had said   anything about her if we would’’ve heard any remark about it? Paul   Ryan had to answer about that. Because his votes clearly proved   it.” ’ ’   He took credit for Ryan, whom he called the ”leader of the   world’’s globalist movement,” having ”to answer for his crimes   against” the American people. ’ ’   ”I made him do that,” Nehlen said. ”A nobody. A nobody.” ’ ’   Nehlen also said that his campaign brought attention to Ryan’’s   ”disdain” for his voters and said that it was able ”to pull that   mask down,” adding that he believes ”in four and a half months,   we unwound a   career.” ’ ’   Although polling showed that the House speaker never faced   much of a threat from Nehlen, the race was brought to the   forefront after Trump praised Nehlen on Twitter for defending   him on a   controversy. ’ ’   Trump later  in an interview   with The Washington Post. The   magnate later relented,   endorsing Ryan last Friday. ’ ’   But Nehlen also received the backing of big names in the   conservative sphere of influence, such as author and commentator   Ann Coulter and former   nominee Sarah Palin.   Breitbart, the news site often linked to the ” ”   movement, provided glowing coverage of Nehlen throughout the   primary, often ignoring the polling data that showed his     defeat. ’ ’  ’ ’   During his Wednesday interview, Nehlen said that he hasn’’t   coordinated with the Trump campaign about future   involvement, but said he’’s built an ”awesome     machine” that will work ”diligently” to help Trump get elected. ’ ’   ”Because if he doesn’’t, we will have a   of Barack   Obama,” he said. ”And unfortunately, we will have Paul Ryan there   to rubber stamp it, just as he did for Barack Obama.” ’ ’   ”I’’m not going to stop fighting,” he continued. ”I’’m in a   position where people look up to me and see that I stood up and I   will not sit down and I will not shut up for as long as I’’m alive   and physically able to take this fight to the establishment. That   is my new vocation. This populist ’’America first’’ movement that   is occurring right now  —   anytime something starts, there is   creative destruction. I didn’’t start it, and I can’’t stop it, but   I can continue to give it attention.” ’ ’   As the election was winding down, Ryan portrayed his primary   opponent as out of line with the broader conservative movement.   Speaking to  last Friday, Ryan was asked to   respond to comments that Nehlen made to a Chicago radio station   questioning why the US has ”Muslims in the country.” ’ ’   While calling them ”dark, grim,” and ”indefensible,” Ryan ripped   the   platform that propped up Nehlen’’s candidacy, saying   that it ”isn’’t even conservatism.” ’ ’   ”Look, I hate to even give such comments currency by even talking   about them,” Ryan said of Nehlen’’s remark. ”This is not the US   Constitution. This is not the US Bill of Rights. Let’’s just be   really clear about this.” ’ ’   ”This is not Wisconsin conservatism,” he continued. ”That kind of   dark, grim, indefensible comments are going to be clearly   rejected and repudiated on Tuesday. I have a hard time seeing the   thinking behind this. Unfortunately, we see some of it these   days.” ’