’  ’ ”   You’re driving down the turnpike. That painful pressure below   your navel has grown too intense to ignore, but you’ve got   another hour and a half left to go before you get home. A blue   sign flashes through your headlights, a rest stop. You pull in,   walk to the public bathroom, and wrinkle your nose. A row of   stalls stretches from wall to wall. Which should you choose? ” ’   Most of us enter this situation armed with nothing but our eyes,   noses, and intuitions. But science can help. Research   suggests you should avoid the middle stalls at all   costs. ’ ”   Here’s why. ” ’   A wealth of research shows that, given several equally good (or   gross) options, people . Psychologists call this ”centrality   preference.” That means that most people who entered the bathroom   before you probably went for the center stalls and avoided the   sides. With any luck, that could leave the side stalls a bit less   nasty. ’ ’   Skeptical? Psychologists have shown that centrality   preference applies to public bathrooms. ’ ’’ ’   In  published in 1995 in the journal Psychological   Science, the psychologist Nicholas Christenfeld presented a   series of short experiments in centrality preference. For one of   them, he examined the habits of beachgoers in a coastal   Californian public washroom. ’ ”   It would have been at the very least impolite to stand around in   there all day with a notebook recording which stalls people used.   So Christenfeld came up with a useful proxy: toilet paper use. He   enlisted the help of the bathroom’s custodian, who kept track of   how often toilet paper needed changing in each of the four stalls   for 10 weeks. ” ’   The results: Far more people used the middle stalls than random   chance would predict  —   60% of finished rolls came from the   central stalls, with only 40% from the end stalls. ’ ”   An important caveat here is that just because fewer people use an   end stall, that doesn’t necessarily mean it’s cleaner. Maybe   the sort of people who use end stalls also make more of a   mess. Maybe custodians know that outer stalls see less traffic   and clean them less often. In any given bathroom, an unseen cue   or quirk of design may shift people toward outer stalls. ” ”   But still, at my next rest stop I’ll be locking the door as close   to the wall as possible. ”