When   Donald J. Trump spoke on the phone with Taiwan’s president on Friday, he was wading into one of Asia’s   and sensitive issues: the dispute between Taiwan and mainland China. Though the call alarmed experts, who say it risks upending decades of American efforts to manage the dispute, nonexperts could be forgiven for scratching their heads about the uproar. What follows, then, is a guide to the   issue: why it is so delicate, what role the United States has in the matter and why the phone call is significant. Both players claimed, at least formally, to represent all of China  —   which they considered to include each other’s territory. That created problems, including periodic risks of war, for decades. The disagreement dates to 1927, when civil war broke out in the Republic of China. The war culminated in Communist revolutionaries, led by Mao Zedong, mostly defeating China’s Nationalist government in 1949. But the Nationalist leaders fled to Taiwan, which their forces still controlled. Though fighting eventually stopped, both sides continued to claim all of China. The   government considered mainland China to be controlled by illegitimate Communist rebels. The   government considered Taiwan a breakaway province. In this sense, the civil war was never fully resolved. Thus, Taiwan’s formal name is still the Republic of China. Mainland China  —   controlled by the Communist government in Beijing  —   is called the People’s Republic of China. Their dispute became a global Cold War issue. The Soviet Union and its allies recognized Beijing as China’s rightful government, while the United States and its allies recognized the Nationalists in Taiwan. The Taiwan government even held the United Nations seat for all of China. In the 1970s, the world began accepting the reality of a divided China. Beijing took over the United Nations seat in 1971. President Richard M. Nixon traveled to mainland China the next year. In 1979, America switched its recognition from the Taiwan government to Beijing’s. Many other countries followed suit. Since then, no American president or   is believed to have spoken with a Taiwanese president  —   until the phone call on Friday. This would be extremely difficult for either government. The Beijing government has never given up hope of reintegrating Taiwan. Territorial integrity is an existential issue for all countries, but it is especially sensitive for Beijing, which fears emboldening separatism in Tibet and other regions. The Taiwan government is constrained on both sides. It cannot offer to reintegrate with the mainland, as the island is a democracy and Taiwanese people would be unwilling to surrender their freedoms. At the same time, Beijing has credibly threatened war should Taiwan declare independence. Taiwan cannot formally drop its claim to mainland China, because it would be seen as tantamount to declaring independence. This led, in 1992, to a semiofficial arrangement: Both countries agreed that there is only one China, encompassing the mainland and Taiwan. But they also agreed to disagree about what that means. Beijing is adamant about upholding this policy because it carries the promise of reunification. But in Taiwan, it has been controversial. Some prefer warm ties with their fellow Chinese and have sought to bolster trade. Others, particularly younger voters, distrust Beijing. Over time, Taiwan’s citizens have become more likely to call themselves Taiwanese  —   a distinct national identity  —   than Chinese. Some Taiwanese leaders have questioned the current arrangement, including President Tsai   who was elected this year. She has promised to uphold the status quo but stopped short of endorsing the 1992 understanding  —   exacerbating Beijing’s fears that Taiwan could declare independence. Mr. Trump, by speaking with Ms. Tsai on the phone and referring to her as “the President of Taiwan” in a Twitter post, indulged those fears  —   and upended the traditional American stance, known as the “One China” policy. Because both Taiwan and Beijing claim the same territory, foreign states cannot recognize both. Beijing forces countries to choose, as the policy’s name indicates, “one China. ” Nearly all countries have chosen Beijing, which controls the world’s   economy. The United States has a particular kind of One China policy, meant to accomplish three main goals: keep positive relations with Beijing, with which the United States has a host of agreements and interests protect and assist Taiwan, a fellow democracy and prevent the outbreak of war. Though the United States officially broke off relations with Taiwan in 1979, it maintains a nonprofit center known as the American Institute in Taiwan, which acts as a barely unofficial embassy. The United States has also worked to promote Taiwan’s democracy and has sold it advanced military equipment, though these sales have declined in recent years. In this way, the United States is able to deny Taiwan recognition, yet also ensure it is strong enough to remain functionally independent. The policy should not be mistaken as a favor or handout to Beijing. Rather, it is intended to maintain American interests in both mainland China and Taiwan and prevent instability or war. As the United States has come to play a crucial balancing role, both sides have scrutinized any hint of change in the American position. In 1995, Washington broke with practice by granting a visa to Taiwan’s president. Beijing considered this a possible step toward recognition of Taiwanese independence and, in response, fired missiles into the Taiwan Strait. The United States, in turn, placed two aircraft carrier groups nearby. Though the crisis ended peacefully, it underscored the United States’ role in maintaining stability and the risk or war. The call does not in itself change policy, but it implies the possibility of a shift, forcing both China and Taiwan to guess at Mr. Trump’s intentions. Mr. Trump’s transition team, by categorizing his call with Ms. Tsai of Taiwan alongside calls with other heads of state, implied that Mr. Trump recognized her as the leader of a sovereign state. Mr. Trump also wrote on Twitter that he had spoken to the “President of Taiwan. ” Recognizing Ms. Tsai as a sovereign leader would communicate that the United States considered Taiwan an independent nation. Such a position would force both Taiwan and Beijing into a difficult choice. Either ignore American policy on the issue  —   perhaps ending the   American role in balancing   relations  —   or confront Taiwanese independence, which Beijing has said would provoke war. Both Beijing and Taiwan have played down the phone call, suggesting that they would prefer to see Mr. Trump’s words as a mistake rather than a deliberate policy shift. Still, Mr. Trump has retained some advisers who advocate more fully siding with the democratic Taiwan over the authoritarian China, perhaps even granting the former partial or full recognition. China and Taiwan, preparing for potential changes in America’s policy, must ask whether the call hints at a coming change, or at least at the possibility that   on Mr. Trump’s team could steer policy in radically new directions. If they are unsure, prudence would seem to require at least preparing for the possibility of a shift. Many Americans might reasonably wonder about this question, which Mr. Trump raised in a Twitter post in defense of the phone call. United States arms sales to Taiwan have indeed been controversial, particularly with Beijing. But they are an approach intended to maintain the status quo. By selling Taiwan arms, the United States ensures that the island can deter an invasion from the mainland’s far larger military. This maintains a balance of power that, while fragile, is intended to prevent war. Granting Taiwan’s leader informal recognition, or even an unofficial upgrade in ties, is different because it disturbs the status quo. To be fair to Mr. Trump, past presidents have adjusted the level of support for Taiwan, for example by increasing or reducing arms sales. But those policy shifts typically came with an explanation, so that China and Taiwan understood American intentions and knew what was and was not changing. What is different is that Mr. Trump has not made clear whether or not he intends to end America’s    policy on Taiwan and China. The fact of the phone call implies that he does intend to do so, but the possibility that he erred implies that maybe he does not. In this way, the issue is not that he caused offense or broke with tradition, but rather that he introduced real uncertainty about how the United States will approach this issue under his leadership. In international relations, especially on tense issues, a lack of clarity or predictability can be destabilizing because it forces all states to plan for the worst. The American policy on Taiwan and China is already ambiguous by design. In 2004, when asked about the One China policy, a senior State Department official told a congressional hearing, “I didn’t really define it, and I’m not sure I very easily could define it. ” While the policy may be tough to articulate, it has at least been predictable. Mr. Trump, intentionally or not, has added a layer of ambiguity that is wholly new.