’  ’ ’   The US Drug Enforcement Agency has seized at least $209 million   from 5, 200 Americans at airports and Amtrak train stations over   the past decade,  on Wednesday. ’ ’   The DEA has used an extensive network of     informants to monitor US travelers  —   then it pulls passengers   aside, seizes cash, and rarely makes arrests, according to the   report, citing interviews with current and former DEA agents and   court records. ’ ’   Drug agents have singled out passengers of nearly every major US   airline at the 15 busiest airports in the US and of Amtrak   trains, based on the reports from employees of airlines and   Amtrak who get paid by the DEA, according to the USA Today   investigation. ’ ”   The DEA’s seizures fall under the common legal practice of civil   forfeiture, which gives the government the ability to seize cash   or property that it suspects is tied to a crime even if the owner   isn’t charged with one. The practice  because of investigations   questioning police motives for seizures and purchases made with   those seizures. ” ”   The DEA surveillance is separate from the established   antiterrorism protocols in effect at US airports, and the   operation has been carried out largely without the airlines’   knowledge, the report said. In 2014, Amtrak’s inspector general      that drug agents paid a secretary $854, 460 over nearly two   decades in exchange for passenger information. ” ’  ’ ’   In most cases, the report said, agents and informants stopped   travelers for questioning based on whether they were traveling     to California, buying tickets with cash, or   carrying checked luggage. ’ ’   Thousands of profiled people were rarely formally detained,   arrested, or charged, the report said. Instead, the agents   gave the suspected drug couriers a receipt for the cash and let   them go without ever charging them with a crime. Of the 87 cases   USA Today identified, only two people were suspects charged with   a    crime. ’ ’   Most of the seized cash was reportedly passed on to local police   departments that lend officers in the operations. ’ ’   ”They count on this as part of the budget,” Louis Weiss, a former   supervisor of the DEA group assigned to Atlanta’’s airport,   . ”Basically, you’’ve got to feed the monster.” ’ ’   DEA teams used to focus on seizing drugs from traffickers at   airports, but when the overhauling of airport security after the   September 11, 2001, attacks made drug smuggling via airlines more   difficult, agents started targeting cash. ’