’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Becca Brown always had the entrepreneurial itch. ’ ’   As a kid, she had a   business, ran a concession stand   at Little League games, sold flowers (that she picked from her   neighbor’’s lawn) and did private tutoring. ”My parents fostered   a very entrepreneurial spirit in our house,” she tells Business   Insider. ’ ”   But after earning her Bachelor’s from Harvard, Brown decided   she’d try on the corporate world for size. ” ’   Turned out it fit   …     at least for a while. ’ ’   In 2000, Brown landed a job at Goldman Sachs, where she started   out as a financial analyst, then moved to the Private Wealth   Management team as an associate, and ultimately moved to London   to work as a chief of staff. ’ ’   But in 2006, the itch came back. ’ ’   ”I decided to go to Columbia to get my MBA before starting a   career building a business as an investment professional in   Private Wealth Management at Goldman Sachs,” she says. ”Columbia   offered an accelerated program designed for people who were   planning to return to their previous employer, and willing to   bypass the summer internship, so it was perfect for me.” ’ ’   There, she majored in finance and entrepreneurship. She was   involved in a few businesses and would compete in business   competitions. When she took a course called ”Entrepreneurial   Finance,” the final assignment was to write a business plan. ’ ’   Luckily, she already had an idea. ’ ’   Brown told Monica Ferguson, her friend and classmate  —   and   Goldman Sachs colleague at the time  —   about the idea. ”She   immediately had this flash of memories of all the heels she had   ruined attending outdoor weddings and parties,” Brown recalls.   ”We decided that we would invent a solution, and Monica proceeded   to write our first business plan for this class.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Both women had committed to going back to Goldman Sachs after   school, so they did  —   but they continued to work on   Solemates (the name of the heel stopper business they came   up with) on the side ”until ultimately we found ourselves at a   crossroads,” Brown explains. ’ ”   That’s when Brown and Ferguson decided to take the leap and   quit their jobs to pursue their business full time. ” ’   ”We both loved working at Goldman Sachs and appreciated it for   everything it taught us, but we knew that if we didn’’t bring this   idea to market and someone else did, we would regret it forever,”   she says. ’ ’   ”It was a great place to work and hat’’s   why it was so difficult to leave in 2008. ”But our manager   and colleagues were supportive and gave us their blessings to   pursue our new venture, which made it a little bit easier.” ’ ’   When they told their families and friends that they had quit   their jobs and why, everyone had a unique reaction. ’ ’   ”We saw a little bit of everything,” says Brown. ”I think most   people were excited for us, but some definitely thought we were   crazy. It was an interesting time because I quickly realized who   was supportive and who was not, and gravitated towards the   former.” ’ ”   Luckily, they’ve managed to prove the haters wrong. ” ”   Today  are   carried in about 3, 000 Nordstrom, DSW, and David’s Bridal stores   around the world, and on major   sites like Amazon and   Zappos. The company has sold several hundred thousand pairs   of the  to customers around the world,   including Oprah, Robin   Viola Davis, Natalie Morales,   and Carrie Underwood. ” ’  ’ ’   When reflecting on the transition from Wall Street to the startup   world now, Brown says: ’ ’   What she misses most about her corporate job, she says, is the   people and the stability, support, and infrastructure of being at   a large organization.  ’ ’   But what she loves most about working for her own company is the   fun of being part of a growing brand. ’ ”   For anyone thinking about branching off on their own, Brown says   she’d give them the same advice she received: ” ’   Her other best piece of advice for making a major career change   is to focus on the present moment. ”You can’’t dwell in the past   or worry too much about the future  —   you just have to focus on   what’’s right here and now, and make the best decision you can   right now. One decision leads to the next, and the next, and   before you know it, you’’re in a totally different place in your   career . .. and life.” ’