’   Today’s graphic is special type of flow chart, called a Sankey   diagram. ’ ’   This particular one shows the total estimated energy consumption   in the United States in 2015, and how energy flowed from source   to the final destination. The graphic comes to us from the    and the . ’ ’   The beauty of a Sankey is in its simplicity and and   effectiveness. No information is left out, and we can really see   the full energy picture from a 10, 000 foot view. ’ ’ ’ ’     ’ ’   The U. S. is estimated to have consumed 97. 5 quads of energy in   2015. ’ ’’ ’   What’s a quad? It’s equal to a quadrillion BTUs, which is roughly   comparable to any of these: ’ ’   It’s a lot of energy  —   and if you look at the diagram, you’ll see   most of it is actually wasted. ’ ’   It’s estimated that 59. 1 quads (60. 6% of all energy) is “rejected   energy” a fancy term for energy that is produced but not used in   an effective way. For example, when gasoline is burned in a car,   most of the energy comes off as heat instead of doing productive   work (ie. turning the crank shaft). The average internal   combustion engine is only 20% efficient, and people get excited   even when they . ’ ’   While gas engines are horribly inefficient, so are other energy   sources. If you look at electricity production on the diagram,   you’ll see that 67% of all energy going to generate electricity   is wasted. ’ ’   It’s the laws of physics, but there are still many areas for   improvement to increase this efficiency. ’ ’   As we explained in Part 2 of our  there are still some big   obstacles to overcome for green energy, batteries, and energy   storage. ’ ’   By looking at all energy use (including   energy   used in automobiles, industrial, etc.) this diagram helps put   things in even more perspective. ’ ’   To make a big impact, green energy not only has to make inroads   in electrical generation, but it also has to supplant the 25. 4   quads of energy being used in the automotive sector. ’ ’   This is why projects like the  are such a big   deal. If Elon Musk is successful in his mission, the whole   diagram and our energy mix would change dramatically. ’ ’   For now, however, green is still a blip on the radar. Looking at   total energy consumption in 2015, solar only accounted for 0. 53   quads of energy. Meanwhile, wind accounted for 1. 82 quads. ’