’  ’ ”   An   poll showed Paul Ryan’s primary challenger with the   support of 14% of voters in Wisconsin’s 1st District. ” ’   Earlier this week, Paul Nehlen, the Wisconsin businessman looking   to unseat the House speaker, wound up with a near identical level   of support  —   just 15. 9%  —   in the Tuesday primary. ’ ’   Those numbers could prove telling in not only how Donald Trump   will perform in November, but how Trumpism could translate   without Trump at its helm. ’ ’   In the run up to his primary, Nehlen received the backing of many   of Trump’’s most prominent supporters  —   such as conservative   author Ann Coulter and former Republican vice presidential   nominee Sarah Palin  —   while some of the more ” ” media   outlets providing Trump with outlandishly favorable coverage   (Breitbart, Drudge Report) used similar language to describe   Nehlen as they did the Manhattan billionaire. Fox News host Sean   Hannity toyed with providing an endorsement to Nehlen. In each   case, polls showing unfavorable results for the candidate of   their backing  —   polls that in Nehlen’’s case proved almost   entirely accurate  —   were ignored. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”This man is a   guy, so in touch with the people,”   Palin later said of Nehlen. ”Paul Ryan and his ilk . .. They feel   so threatened at this point that their power, their prestige,   their purse will be adversely affected by the change that is   coming with Trump and with someone like Paul Nehlen, that they’’re   not thinking straight right now.” ’ ’   Warning that there’’s a ”natural risk” of associating the results   of a House district and try to use it to tell a story about the   broader electorate, Matt Mackowiak, a GOP strategist and founder   of the Potomac Strategy Group, told Business Insider that many on   the farther side of the right wing ”damaged their credibility” on   Trump with their assertions in the   race. ’ ’   ”I think the commonality is that there is that there’’s a small   circle of, I even hate to hesitate to use the word conservative   because I don’’t think it’’s appropriate, but there’’s a small   circle of   in the conservative media that are just   true believers,” Mackowiak said. ”They won’’t even consider any   evidence or any arguments to the contrary. And so they had an   immense amount of   in the Ryan congressional   race.” ’ ”   Ryan is an unusual member of the House in that he’s both in an   extremely   position and that he still makes trips   back to his district every weekend, Mackowiak added, saying that   he’s a good congressman in addition to being House speaker. ” ’   ”In a way, their overconfidence really met its demise in probably   the single worst congressional district for them to run an   outside challenger in,” he said. ”I think you can make an   argument that they have damaged their own credibility with the      statements they used in trying ot make that race   appear competitive. It does make you wonder if they’’re   overstating the race in that case, if they’’re also not   overstating the case in the presidential race.” ’ ”   The draw of Nehlen to the   Trump backers was that the   Wisconsin businessman’s platform was nearly identical to Trump’s,   with immigration and trade being the top two priorities. Trump   himself would tip his hat to Nehlen earlier this month while   withholding an endorsement of Ryan that would come days later. ” ’   ”If you look at the closed circle of       Trump boosters  —   Sean Hannity, Laura Ingraham, Ann Coulter,   Drudge, Breitbart obviously  —   you could take the same language   they used about Trump and they applied it to Nehlen, and that   applies to both ideological and policy and their own sort of   political analysis of the race,” Mackowiak said. ”To me, their   overstatements in the Nehlen race should be a flashing yellow to   anyone who wants to listen to their analysis or their predictions   about Trump’’s political strength right now.” ’ ’   Tim Miller, who formerly worked as communications director for   Jeb Bush’’s 2016 presidential campaign, told Business Insider that   the election as a whole has served as a ”  call” to many in   the media that ”their influence isn’’t as great as they think.” ’ ’   ”You know on the one hand, Nehlen had all this support from the     conservative media to no effect,” he said. ”On the flip   side, the big name mainstream Republican conservative media types   were all against Trump in the primary to no effect.” ’ ’   ”I hope that the Nehlen blowout and the impending Trump blowout   will be a   call to the Trump cheerleaders in the media,   but I’’m not too optimistic,” he continued. ’ ’  ’ ”   The other question the   race bring about is whether   Trump’s platform  —   which was Nehlen’s platform  —   can be   successful without Trump at the helm. ” ”   As the polling showed, even the support of Trump’s most fervent   backers could barely move the needle with Nehlen while the   bombastic Trump was able to capture a nationwide nomination with   support from similar corners. ” ’   ”Oh there’’s no question,” Mackowiak said of whether Trumpism   needs Trump to be successful as a platform. ”Trump’’s campaign has   been all about himself, all about his larger than life   personality, his own brand, his own celebrity.” ’ ’   Trump had advantages that ”no other outside candidate could   have,” he continued. ’ ’   ”I do think there’’s some resonance on immigration and trade and   perhaps on   with a portion of the electorate,”   he continued. ”I just think there’’s a   and a    . [Trump] always falls between 35% and 42% of the   electorate. Nehlen doesn’’t have Trump’’s name identification, his   celebrity, his ability to dominate the media. That was much more   of a traditional outsider challenger that the uphill battle that   taking on the incumbent would always require.” ’ ’   Miller noted that Wisconsin as a whole voted for Sen. Ted Cruz of   Texas  —   and not Trump  —   in the primary, a sign that the state   could be uniquely inhospitable to the   populist   movement. ’ ’  ’ ’   What he dubbed as ” ’’s” are sure to run for offices   across the country, but Miller thinks they will only be able to   find success in certain areas. ’ ’   ”I think the Trump message is not one that works in states where   there’’s high degrees of family cohesion and church attendance,”   he said. ”It doesn’’t really work in the suburbs. So in some   places around the country, I think that’’s going to be a failure.   In other places, I think you’’re going to see some     that have success.” ’ ’   He called the assertion that Trumpism can only be successful with   Trump ”a lot of wishful thinking” that ”hasn’’t really been   tested,” but added that to win on the Trump platform in a Hose or   Senate race is particularly hard if you don’’t have the ”oversized   personality of Trump.” ’ ’   Where it might be easier to repeat, and what he fears, is on the   presidential level. ’ ’   ”We’’ve been fooled once by Trump,” he said. ”And I don’’t want to   be fooled again looking at 2020 thinking this was sort of this     black swan.” ’