’  ’ ’   In a Monday   speech, Donald Trump called for an   ”extreme”   test to prevent terrorism in the   US. ’ ’   Trump has alluded to such ideas before, but he went further on   Monday by writing the proposal into a major policy speech. ’ ’   ”A Trump administration will establish a clear principle that   will govern all decisions pertaining to immigration,” he said.   ”And we will be tough. And we will be, even, extreme. We should   only admit into this country those who share our values and   respect our people.” ’ ’   He then equated his proposed ”screening test” to the Cold   War. ’ ’   ”In the Cold War, we had an ideological screening test. The time   is overdue to develop a new screening test for the threats we   face today,” Trump said. ”I call it ’’extreme vetting. ’’ I call it   extreme, extreme, vetting. Our country has enough   problems. We don’’t need more. And these are problems like we’’ve   never had before.” ’ ’’ ’   Trump implied that the test would question whether immigrants   want to implement Islamic law in the US, a fear commonly voiced   by some conservatives. ’ ’   ”In addition to screening out all members or sympathizers of   terrorist groups, we must also screen out any who have hostile   attitudes towards our country or its principles  —   or who believe   that Sharia law should supplant American law,” he said. ”Those   who do not believe in our Constitution, or who support bigotry   and hatred, will not be admitted for immigration into our   country.” ’ ’   He then echoed his controversial proposal to bar foreign   Muslims from entering the US, but his proposal is now aimed at   those from specific regions rather than a specific religion. ’ ’   ”To put these new procedures in place, we will have to   temporarily suspend immigration from some of the most dangerous   and volatile regions of the world that have a history of   exporting terrorism,” he said. ”As soon as I take office, I will   ask the State Department and the Department of Homeland Security   to identify a list of regions where adequate screening cannot   take place.” ’ ’   Trump said that there are ”many such regions,” but did not name   them specifically. ’ ’   ”We will stop processing visas from those areas until such time   as it is deemed safe to resume based on new circumstances or new   procedures,” Trump said. ’ ’   Earlier in the speech, Trump cited terrorist attacks on US soil   carried out by immigrants or children of immigrants as the   reasoning behind the stricter immigration policies. ’ ’   ”The common thread linking the major Islamic terrorist attacks   that have recently occurred on our soil  —     the Fort Hood   shooting, the Boston bombing, the San Bernardino attack, the   Orlando attack  —   is that they have involved immigrants or the   children of immigrants. Clearly, new screening procedures are   needed,” he said. ’