’  ’ ’   Black   users are nearly as twice as likely as whites   to see   content on social media, according to a Pew   Research Center study published on Monday. ’ ’   The study, ”,” showed that there is   a stark divide in how black and white Americans talk about race   on   sites like Facebook and Twitter. ’ ’     percent of black   users surveyed by   Pew report seeing at least some   posts on their   feeds, while only 35% of white users do. ’ ”   The gap isn’t limited to what users see, but also to what users   post.   percent of black   users told   Pew that most or some of what they post is about race or   relations, compared to 8% of whites. Nearly   of white   users said that nothing they post or share pertains to race,   according to the study. ” ”   It is perhaps unexpected that Pew found that people who regularly   talk about race tend to see and share   posts on   social media, given that Facebook’s . ” ’’ ’   What is perhaps more striking is that the study found   that black   users who rarely or never discuss   race are more likely to see   content on social media   than whites who frequently talk about race by a margin of 55% to   41% respectively. ’ ’   A Pew analysis found that 995 million   tweets   were posted from January 1, 2015, through March 31, 2016, meaning   that, on average, there were 2. 1 million tweets per day about   race. By contrast, about  in total were posted on Twitter each   day in 2015, meaning that tweets mentioning race made up about   0. 04% of all tweets posted. ’ ’   Some researchers and activists credit social media for increasing   national conversations about race and racial inequality.   According to Twitter, #Ferguson was the top social hashtag in the     history of the platform, while #BlackLivesMatter was No.   3. ’ ’   ”Social media also can serve as an important venue where groups   with common interests come together to share ideas and   information,” study authors Monica Anderson and Paul Hitlin   wrote. ”And at times, Twitter, Facebook and other social media   sites can help users bring greater attention to issues through   their collective voice.” ’ ’   Tweets with the #BlackLivesMatter hashtag were initially largely   supportive of the movement between July 2013, when it first came   out, and the end of March 2016, Pew reported. ’ ’   But there was a dramatic rise in critical tweets using the   #BlackLivesMatter hashtag, according to the Pew analysis, from   July 5 to 17, 2016, that looked at tweets in the aftermath of the   shootings of police officers in Dallas and Baton Rouge,   Louisiana. ’ ’   The survey was based on interviews from February 29, to May 8,   2016, among a national sample of 3, 769 adults. ’