’  ’ ’   A group calling itself the ”Shadow Brokers” claims that it hacked   into the National Security Agency and stole an apparent treasure   trove of exploits and hacking tools  which some   insiders   say is extremely bizarre and very serious. ’ ’   ”It’’s a big deal,” Dave Aitel, an   research scientist and   CEO of penetration testing firm  Inc. told Business   Insider. ”We’’d be panicking.” ’ ’   Yet he added: ”But then it is rather old stuff. So the question   is, is it so old that it’’s essentially irrelevant but looks very   relevant? Or is some of this stuff still in use every day? I   don’’t know.” ’ ’   Earlier this week, Shadow Brokers announced that it was   selling a number of cyber weapons claiming to be stolen from   The Equation Group. That is a hacking unit that was  by Kaspersky Labs that many believe are   within the NSA. In its data dump of proof, the brokers offered   files dating back to 2013 to  FortiGate and Cisco firewalls, among   others. ’ ”   Aitel doesn’t think that the NSA was actually hacked, though he   does think that the files look legitimate. Instead, he told us,   the much more likely scenario is that an insider walked out   of a secure area with this  which could have been sold or stolen. ” ’   ”No one puts their exploits on a   [  ] server,” Aitel said. ”That’’s not a   thing.” ’ ”   That assessment was echoed by another former NSA employee who   worked in Tailored Access Operations, the government’s top   hacking unit. ” ’   ”Knowing how the NSA setup is, it’’s so unlikely that someone   would hack it,” the source told Business Insider on condition of   anonymity. ”It’’s just ridiculous. That’’s not to say they are so   perfect, or so impenetrable. . .. The fact that this is   consolidated around one specific toolkit, I would totally agree   with Dave that someone just left with an infrastructure ops   disk.” ’ ’  ’ ’   On one hand, people inside the NSA are likely carrying on   with ”business as usual,” the source said. Networks, operating   systems, and platforms constantly evolve, and     firms are often finding tools and exploits that they use, so they   have to find other ways to continue hacking into foreign targets. ’ ’   ”I’’ve worked operations where tools were discovered, and there   was a lot of scrutiny on it, and I think you have to have a   practical nature to it, which is, that’’s kind of the name of the   game,” the source said. ”If you implant a computer, you’’re   leaving something behind.” ’ ’   But on the other hand, the more pressing concern is in trying to   understand how that data was taken and what else could be   sitting in the cache. Until the NSA knows that, then ongoing   operations are likely threatened. ’ ’   ”If you don’’t know how it was lost, there’’s then a lot of panic   in terms of what else is out there, particularly from a   counterintelligence perspective,” the source said. ”Now you have   to really worry, are all of my operations exposed? I think that’’s   very concerning to people because they want to be covert and   stealth.” ’ ’   The source added: ”That’’s probably the most chilling effect that   you can have is to kind of have everyone     themselves.” ’ ”   So what’s next? Security researchers  poking through the files to get an   understanding of what is inside, and the companies named will   start developing patches that fix their vulnerabilities. ” ’   But a larger narrative seems to be emerging that a     cyber cold war is turning hot, especially when this exploit   auction  —   which Aitel believes is ””  —   comes just two months after  were found inside the   network of the Democratic National Committee. ’ ’   ”The Russians are professionals,” Aitel said. ”They’’ve been   trying to operate against the United States for a long time. They   have a lot of irons in that fire. And vice versa. We catch them   and attribute to them as well.” ’ ’ ’t’t’tSo much for that cyber COLD war we were warned about. ’t’t’ ’   ”When you have someone messing with your presidential election,   when you have somebody releasing this kind of capability, when   you have the attention of policymakers,” he added, ”it gets less   cold day by day.” ’