’  ’ ’   Hedge funds have been getting throttled since the beginning of   2016, and because of that people are starting to ask questions   about their worth. ’ ’   As you know, people tend not to ask questions when they are   making money. ’ ’   All of a sudden, investors want to know how their money   was lost, and what strategies and thought processes contributed   to it vanishing into the market ether. ’ ’   They do, after all, pay very high fees for the services of hedge   fund managers. ’ ”   And so, in the spirit of pursuing that knowledge, Business   Insider’s Rachael Levy published  from ValueAct   Capital, the almost $16 billion activist hedge fund. ” ’   It shows you exactly why investors are getting sick and tired of   hedge funds. ’ ”   Here’s what we learned from the documents. First, ValueAct   doesn’t think that it has to benchmark itself against any metric   in the market. It stands alone on whether it makes you money or   not. ” ”   This is a recurring theme in the hedge fund industry. When they   beat the benchmark, they’ll point it out as a sign of success.   When they fail to beat the benchmark, they’ll argue that they   offer uncorrelated returns, and they should never have been   compared to a benchmark in the first place. ” ’   In other words, the metric that matters on Wall Street is the one   that makes you look good. That’’s why, according to ValueAct,   you should throw your money at them and then just say, ”Awesome,   thanks.” ’ ’   For the record,  ’ ”   The documents also disclosed that ValueAct invests only in large   companies  —   above $3 billion. That leaves a lot of companies, and   yet ValueAct’s biggest holdings aren’t that imaginative.  ” ”   For example, ValueAct’s biggest position at the end of the second   quarter, according to the fund’s  was Microsoft, a stock that is hugely   popular with hedge funds. According to Goldman Sachs’ hedge fund   VIP list, no fewer than .  ” ’   ValueAct also has big positions in Baker Hughes and   Willis Towers Watson, two other stocks with a high percentage of   hedge fund ownership, at around 16% and 17% respectively. It is   also a shareholder in hedge fund horrow show Valeant.  ’ ’   The last key thing we learned from these documents is that if   ValueAct investors want to know where their money is going, then   they have to sign a nondisclosure agreement. ’ ”   This makes sense. Hedge funds started out as small, secretive   institutions available to only the most elite investors. The last   thing any hedge fund manager needed was some loudmouth drunk   investor talking about the fund’s position at the Maidstone Club   some afternoon. ” ’   But in a world where hedge fund managers are constantly talking   to each other at conferences and idea dinners, where long   positions are disclosed on a quarterly basis, we see how this   could be a bit onerous, too.  ’ ’  ’ ’   The questions also tend to come when your hedge fund has to pay   an $11 million settlement with the US Department of Justice for   failing to properly notify authorities  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Part of what is ruining hedge funds,  is that they’re all   chasing the same ideas these days. It was fine when everyone was   also making  but now they’re not. ” ”   That is why a bunch of money is getting thrown into passively   managed funds. If you’re going to make only a few percentage   points on your money, then  ” ”   ValueAct just announced a $1. 1 billion stake in Morgan Stanley.   It also said that it doesn’t plan to shake up the company in any   meaningful way,  that the bank has much to do if   it wants to reach its goal of 10% return on equity  —   it’s at   about 8% now. That lack of action defies ValueAct’s name and   purpose. ” ’   Any investor might as well just turn around and buy the stock   themselves, really. ’ ”   The conditions for our   world aren’t necessarily going   away, either, so this is a trend that probably isn’t going away. ” ”   Hedge funds that can’t make the cut are going to get stomped out,   and documents like ValueAct’s show you a little bit of why   investors are likely all too ready to tell hedge funds to take a   hike. ”