’  ’ ’   American Olympians Gunnar Bentz, Jack Conger, and James   Feigen  —   the three swimmers with Ryan Lochte on the night he   said he was robbed at gunpoint  —   were all reportedly   stopped as they attempted to leave Rio on Wednesday, just hours   after a Brazilian judge told authorities to seize their   passports.  ’ ”   NBC’s Peter Alexander first reported that Bentz and Conger were   pulled off their plane on Wednesday night. NBC also reported that   Feigen was supposed to be on the same flight as Bentz and Conger,   but that he never showed up at the airport even after checking in   online. ” ”   According to NBC, Feigen’s whereabouts are currently unknown. ” ’   Over the weekend, Lochte said he and three other swimmers were   robbed at gunpoint in Rio. However, his story has since been   refuted by Brazilian authorities, who have claimed no robbery   took place. According to a report in the Daily Mail, security   footage from the Olympic Village shows Lochte, Bentz, Conger, and   Jimmy Feigen all   the village with items they reported   stolen, including their wallets. ’ ’   On Wednesday,  as a result of the   controversy. Lochte was already back in the United   States at the time of the request, though the other three   swimmers remained in Rio. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tBREAKING: The other 2 USA swimmers who say they were w Lochte during robbery have just been pulled off their plane at Rio airport. ’t’t’ ’    ’ ” ’t’t’tMore: Gunnar Bentz & Jack Conger were not named by Brazilian judge who wanted Lochte & Feigen’s passports seized but now they are in limbo. ’t’t” ’    ’ ” ’t’t’tMore: Gunnar Bentz & Jack Conger were not named by Brazilian judge who wanted Lochte & Feigen’s passports seized but now they are in limbo. ’t’t” ’    ’ ’ ’t’t’tTo be clear, Ryan Lochte is back in US, Jimmy Feigen is still in Brazil. All this reporting confirmed by NBC Sports. ’t’t’ ’     ’ ”   According to Alexander, neither Bentz nor Conger were   named by the judge who wanted to seize Lochte’s passport,   though Feign was. The  statuses of the three swimmers are   now all up in the air.  ”