’  ’ ’   China is promising big paychecks in an effort to lure experienced   foreign pilots to the country to meet skyrocketing     demand. ’ ”   As the world’s   aviation market, the number of   commercial planes in China will triple to 7, 210  —   up from 2, 570   last year  —   by the year 2034, according to a press release   . ” ’   The country will need to hire 100 pilots per week over that   period, . ’ ’   ”When we ask an airline, ‘How many pilots do you need? ,’ they   say, ‘Oh, we can take as many as you bring. ’’ It’s almost   unlimited,” said David Ross, the president of Las     recruiting company, . ’ ”   Ross’s company serves more than a dozen of China’s mainland   carriers, including Chengdu Airlines and Qingdao Airlines. ” ”   Those startup carriers are barely known outside of China, but   they have emerged amid the nation’s booming aviation market. ” ’   Chinese airlines are paying as much as five times more than some   Asia rivals for new hires, and startup airlines are paying about   50 percent more than what some senior captains earn at Delta Air   Lines, Bloomberg noted. ’ ’  ’ ”   Ross said a month’s pay for one pilot he placed at Beijing   Capital Airlines was $80, 000. By comparison, some US regional   airlines still offer   salaries at or below $25, 000,    ” ’   “They can’t attract people through any other means,” Liz   Loveridge, a recruiter at  in Auckland, told Bloomberg. “They think money’s the   only answer. ’’ ’ ’   Besides money, geographical and cultural proximity make China   especially attractive for Korean pilots  —   making Korea, now the   biggest source of foreign captains who are recruited to China. ’ ’   “It’s much better than flying in Korea,” Captain Park the   first Korean pilot to join a Chinese airline, told South China   Morning Post. He has been flying A320s for   Spring   Airlines for 10 years. ’ ’   “If I want to go back I could. But I am very happy here now,”   said Park, who speaks basic Mandarin now. “I feel I have turned   half Chinese. ” ’