’  ’ ”   Venezuelan police crushed and cut up  shotguns and pistols in a Caracas   city square on Wednesday, as the new interior minister relaunched   a     campaign in one of the world’s most     countries. ” ’   Interior Minister Nestor Reverol said the event marked the   renewal of efforts to disarm Venezuelans, through a combination   of seizures and a voluntary program to swap guns for electrical   goods. ’ ’   According to Reverol, so far this year Venezuelan authorities   have taken  out of circulation. Weapons   destroyed  pistols, revolvers, homemade arms,   rifles, and shotguns. ’ ”   Venezuela has the world’s   murder rate and . The street gangs that roam the city’s poor   neighborhoods have become increasingly heavily armed in recent   years, while a deep recession has reduced resources available to   police. ” ’   Estimates vary of the number of weapons on the streets of   Venezuela, a country of just over 30 million people. A    put the number of illegal   weapons at between 9 million and 15 million, while the   number of weapons in circulation in  was thought to be between a million   and 6 million.  ’ ’  ’ ’   Gangs often get weapons from the police, either by stealing them   or buying them from corrupt officers, experts say. Recent years   have also seen an increase in criminals targeting police and   security forces in order to take their weapons, especially after   private gun ownership was . ’ ”   Through the first five months of 2016, 163 police, military   officers, and bodyguards were killed  —    over the same period last   year. In  the assailants also took   the victim’s weapon. A government source  El Nacional that the victim’s weapons   were recovered only . ” ”   With inflation of 185% in 2015 and a currency weakened by   spiraling inflation, police salaries have fallen far behind   rising prices, creating more incentives for corruption,   particularly on the country’s  where   police and soldiers  to smugglers and other   criminals engaged in illicit activities. ” ’  ’ ’   President Nicolas Maduro  days after the   US government accused the former   tsar and another     official of taking . ’ ’   ”We are going to bring disarmament and peace,” Reverol told   reporters, while police officers drilled and sawed at rusty   shotguns, homemade pistols, and some newer weapons, Reuters   reported. ’ ’   The interior minister also  the government would undertake a   nationwide disarmament effort starting September 1, with a     event slated for September 21. ’ ’   Reverol said that since the government started its program to   decommission weapons around the country,  had been destroyed. ’ ’   Other guns were crushed in   presses. Some members of   the public watched, although more danced to a nearby sound system   playing salsa music, according to Reuters. ’ ’  ’ ”   Venezuela has also bought laser technology to mark ammunition,   Reverol said, in an attempt to keep a registry of the bullets   given out to the South American nation’s many state and municipal   police forces. ” ’   ”This will permit us to do investigations of those empty casings   that are left at the place of the event, in order to   determine the responsibility of the people who commit crimes,”   Reverol . ’ ”   Experts say that much of the ammunition used in crimes in   Venezuela is made at the country’s government munitions factory,   pilfered from state weapons stocks, and  by corrupt   officials. ” ’   (Reporting for Reuters by Frank Jack Daniel; editing by David   Gregorio) ’