’  ’ ’   The US Department of Justice  that it will phase out the use of   private prisons for federal inmates, a decision that has been   lauded by many   advocates. ’ ”   Questions remain, however, over how significant the   development is to the   industry and the country’s   growing prison population. ” ”   Some activists and lawmakers hailed the move as a step toward   resolving mass incarceration. The US correctional system   incarcerates  according to a 2014 US Bureau of Justice   Statistics report, and costs taxpayers . The US’s incarceration rate far   . ” ’   ”This announcement is a tremendous victory,” Carl Takei of the   ACLU’’s National Prison Project said in a  on Thursday. ”The reform, long overdue, is the   result of years of patient, persistent advocacy by criminal   justice advocates.” ’ ”   But others were quick to point out that the announcement affects   a relatively small amount of the country’s prisoners. Just 22, 000   federal inmates are held in private prisons  —   a population that   will be relocated, not reduced by the DOJ’s directive. ” ’’ ”     facilities house just 15% of   federal inmates and 6% of state inmates, but roughly half of   the country’s immigrant detainees. ” ”   Further, the DOJ decision will likely fail to have an outsized   effect on companies that own and operate private prisons. The   Corrections Corporation of America (CCA) the country’s largest   owner of private prisons, noted in a statement to Business   Insider that its Bureau of Prison facilities make up just 7% of   its business. ” ”   The DOJ’s decision also doesn’t touch the private facilities used   by US Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) which detains    annually, since the agency falls under   the purview of the US Department of Homeland Security, not the   DOJ. ” ”   It’s likely that the DOJ’s decision wasn’t based on progressive   intentions to curb mass incarceration, but rather common sense   and logistics, according to Peter Wagner, executive director of   the   Prison Policy Initiative. ” ’   In its  the DOJ noted that the federal prison   population has dropped to 195, 000 inmates from 220, 000 within   three years. ’ ’   With such a swift population decline and recent data that   suggests that private prisons perform more poorly than their     counterparts, it makes sense for the DOJ to scale   back its contracts with private companies, Wagner said. ’ ’   ”This is very similar to a memo that says: When you leave the   room, turn off the lights. It’’s kind of obvious,” he   said. ”It would be really sad if this announcement confuses   people about how our incarceration system works.” ’ ’   While the debate over the legitimacy and necessity of private   prisons is needed, there is one thing escaping scrutiny as a   result, according to Christopher Petrella, a lecturer at   Bates College and member of Grassroots Leadership, an advocacy   group that . ’ ’   The government plays a far greater role than private companies in   the American prison industry  —   a fact which often gets eclipsed   by debates around corporate profiteering, Petrella said. But he   noted that while the DOJ has been lauded by the public for its   directive, its memo neglected any mention of improving conditions   in   prisons and failed to address any root causes   of mass incarceration. ’ ’”What [the DOJ’’s announcement]   does is leave unconsidered why we punish in this country, who we   punish in this country.” ’ ’   Further, even if the   industry were   completely eliminated, private companies would still be   integral to the prison industry.   prisons are   often funded by and use phone, transportation, commissary, and   medical services from private companies. ’ ”   Though such private companies don’t profit directly by owning a   private prison, as the CCA or the GEO Group do, they receive   considerable annual revenues by propping up prisons, thus making   them similarly rewarded by America’s system of   incarceration, according to Petrella. ” ’   ”There’’s really a lot more   than I think most   people realize,” he said. ’ ”   Petrella added that the DOJ’s directive is neither significant to   reducing mass incarceration, nor does it sound a death knell for   American’s   industry, which has already branched   out into services like housing, home confinement, and   rehabilitation. ”