’  ’ ’   His spacious house and lawn in the northern Mexican city of   Ciudad Victoria are surrounded by tall walls, and stand in a   gated community with more high fences and security guards. ’ ”   But even here, sitting on his couch surrounded by family photos   and Catholic imagery, this owner of a big business still doesn’t   feel safe. ” ’   ”Nobody trusts anyone,” he said. ”This house, 10 years ago, it   didn’’t have a fence. All the neighbors’’ kids used to come play   here.” ’ ’   But just in the past year, the businessman said, he has attended   the funerals of four murdered close friends. He said he has also   sent all his children to live in safer places. Like almost   everybody you talk to in the northeastern state of Tamaulipas,   the businessman will only discuss security issues if his name is   kept out of print, for fear of reprisals by criminals. ’ ”   Tamaulipas, just over the border from Texas, has been central to   the government’s efforts to contain   cartels,   ever since   Felipe Calderón launched a major     strategy against organized crime nearly a decade   ago. His successor Enrique Peña Nieto is continuing that   approach. ” ”   A particularly intense offensive against the notoriously bloody   Zetas cartel, based in the state, successfully took down most of   the group’s leaders between 2012 and 2015. But putting these   infamous criminal bosses in prison, or in the ground, has done   little to make the state safer. In fact, residents of Ciudad   Victoria, the state capital, say things have never been this bad   in Tamaulipas, as factions of the Zetas fight to fill the vacuums   the government’s strategy has left. ” ’   How bad things are was driven home in March when a   narcomanta  —   a banner left in a public place with a   message from the cartels  —   claimed that one faction of the Zetas   would begin killing civilians if the government did not halt   extradition proceedings against two incarcerated leaders. Since   then, other narcomantas have reiterated the threat, and   murders have increased. ’ ’   ”The way of life has changed completely here in Victoria,” said a     owner, in a hushed voice. Nervous about talking in   a public place, he asked to move to a secure location. ”It’’s   worse than it’’s ever been.” ’ ’  ’ ’   The man admitted he pays protection fees to local cartels so they   leave his business alone, but he still lives in fear. The family   keeps in constant contact via a WhatsApp group at all times, with   all its members noting where they are going, with whom, and when   they will arrive. They are are all too aware of what can happen.   The man said one of his uncles was killed by the Zetas in 2015   for no apparent reason. ’ ’   ”They arrived at his house, armed, pulled him out, took him away,   and later killed him,” he said. ”Why? Who knows.” ’ ”   The number of murders in Mexico surged in the first few years of   Calderón’s offensive against the cartels, and then dropped off   somewhat at the end of his   term and during the first   couple of years of President Peña Nieto’s government. But now the   killing is getting worse again. According to official figures   there were 10, 301 murders between January and June this year.   This was 15 percent more than the number killed during the same   period in 2015, though the average of 57 murders a day is still   10 percent lower than it was when they reached a peak in 2011. ” ’   Many of the worst atrocities over the decade have come at the   hands of the Zetas in Tamaulipas, such as the 2010 massacre of 72   unarmed,   and helpless Central American migrants   in the town of San Fernando. ’ ’   The Zetas formed in the state in the late 1990s, when deserters   from Mexican military and police units were recruited by the then   leader of the Gulf Cartel, Osiel Cárdenas Guillén, to be his   personal bodyguards. They were led by Arturo Guzmán Decena, alias     whom the military killed in 2002. ’ ’  ’ ’   There are many origin stories attached to the cartel’’s name. One   of the more common cites the idea that nothing comes after the Z.   The name instills so much fear that there are parts of the   country with heavy Zeta influence where the population avoids   saying it out loud, preferring phrases such as ”those of the last   letter.” ’ ’   Heriberto Lazcano Lazcano, known as   oversaw the rise of that   reputation after he took over from   and led the group towards   increasing independence from the Gulf cartel. ’ ”   In 2010, a   split triggered one of the worst turf wars   in all of Mexico, with many of the biggest battles fought in   Tamaulipas. That, in turn, prompted an especially focused     effort to take down the Zetas’ leaders. ” ’   The Mexican Navy killed   in 2012. This left the cartel in the   charge of Miguel Treviño Morales, aka  . When he was arrested   in 2013, power passed to his brother, Omar Treviño Morales, or    . His capture in 2015 is widely blamed for the current   internal split that triggered the current wave of violence in   Ciudad Victoria, where the Zetas have traditionally maintained   particularly tight control over both criminal activity and the   local authorities. ’ ’   ”One group wants to control Victoria, and the other doesn’’t want   to let it go,” said a Tamaulipas state police officer, born and   raised in Ciudad Victoria, who previously served in the Mexican   military. ”Before they answered to one jefe, one   patrón.” ’ ”   The state police officer, who also asked for anonymity for fear   of reprisals, identified one of the warring Zetas factions as the   Cartel del Noroeste, or the Northeastern cartel, which   is allegedly led by Kiki, also known as Kiko, Treviño, a nephew   of   and  . The other is named Grupo   Bravo, also known as Vieja Escuela Z  —   old school   Zetas. The names may give the impression that the fight is   between old and new leaders, but the rivalry has more to do with   the groups’ different territorial bastions and the lack of major   figures to keep them together. ” ’  ’ ’   ”What’’s happening, it’’s like ants,” the cop said of the     kingpin strategy at the heart of the offensive launched by   Calderón in 2006 and continued by Peña Nieto. He said that when   you exterminate the ”queen ant” and don’’t follow up, the insects   regroup and return to their anthill  —   either that, or others take   the queen’’s place. ’ ”   The result in Ciudad Victoria, he added, was that he has never   before felt as afraid for his friends and family as he does now,   with the cartel’s broadcast threats to kill civilians. ” ’   ”It’’s terrorism, in all senses of the word,” he said. ’ ’   The March manta threatening to kill random civilians   unless extradition proceedings against the Treviño brothers were   stopped summed up the way the kingpin strategy has failed the   people of Ciudad Victoria. ’ ’   While the United States and Mexican government celebrate captures   and extraditions of   capos, there’’s no shortage of     gangsters ready to take their place and hang poorly   written letters to presidents. The March manta named, in   badly ungrammatical Spanish, the young nephew Kiko as the   ”lider maximo,” who has made it clear he’’s ready to   murder for his demands. ’ ’   That ominous threat did not appear in local newspapers. It spread   through social media, or by word of mouth, in Ciudad Victoria.   Journalists are too afraid to print it. ’ ’   ”It’’s very frustrating,” said a reporter for a local Tamaulipas   newspaper. ’ ’  ’ ’   The paper, she said, has stayed away from printing     stories ever since the violence escalated after   the   cartel split in 2010. At the moment, she said, her   paper barely reports on the state government briefings detailing   the numbers and locations of people killed. She added that in the   gruesome photographs of the same incidents that are often posted   online, there are often more bodies than the officials say in   those briefings. ’ ’   ”People wanted to know why we weren’’t publishing and telling the   truth about what’’s happening,” she said. ”It wasn’’t because we   didn’’t want to publish what we knew. It just wasn’’t worth our   lives.” ’ ’   The reporter said it would have been tantamount to suicide to try   and find out why gunmen killed 11 members of a single family  —     four children, five women, two men, and the family dog  —   in July.   One of the women and her two children were US citizens visiting   family in Ciudad Victoria. Eight other people were killed and 24   others injured by gunfire on that same weekend. ’ ”The Northeastern cartel claimed responsibility   for the massacre in a manta signed by  . The text   claimed the massacre was retaliation for governor Egidio Torre   Cantu’s failure to provide the protection that came with   accepting cartel bribes. ” ’   ”Please come pick up the dead civilians that I left for you,” the   manta mocked. ”I will continue ordering attacks on the   civilian population in Ciudad Victoria.” ’ ’   Days later gunmen killed five members of another family in Ciudad   Victoria. Authorities encountered the   bodies of the   grandmother, mother, her two sons, and her    baby   girl. ’ ’  ’ ’   A teacher in Ciudad Victoria claimed one of the murdered children   was a student in the middle school where he works, although not   in his class. He said his students, aged 13 to 15, struggle under   the constant pressure of the violence, as well as recruitment   drives by the criminal groups. ’ ’   The teacher said that sometimes he has trouble getting to work   because of the danger on the streets. Once at the school, he   said, he worries that some of the students are working for the   cartels. ’ ’   ”The problem is that you can’’t be strict, you’’re afraid of the   student,” he said. ”Because you don’’t know who they are, or their   parents, or their neighbors.” ’ ’   The deep distrust that permeates the city means many avoid going   out after dark, and everybody watches what they say in all but   the tightest social circles. ’ ’   ”We’’re up against the wall in a really complicated situation,”   said the businessman with the gated house, blaming the current   wave of violence on the ”power vacuum” created by recent   governorship elections that had weakened existing corruption   deals and created an opportunity for outside groups to attempt an   invasion. ’ ’   Not that he sees any way out of such deals. He said he was just   holding on to the hope that such political collusion could be   negotiated without damaging the civilian population, and chuckled   at the idea that any government could make Tamaulipas    . ’ ’   ”All of us are hopeful that the new government will have a good   arrangement with one of the groups of bad guys,” he said, ”so   that the cartels let us work and let us live.” ’