’  ’ ’   After the   ’ ’  ’ ’   ”The component of the government that is supposed to be   absolutely best at keeping secrets didn’’t manage to keep this   secret effectively,” Nate Cardozo, a senior staff attorney with   the Electronic Frontier Foundation, told Business Insider. ’ ’   In February,  Apple to help  ’ ”   While the company’s legal team fought the order, Apple CEO Tim   Cook published  arguing against being forced to build a     backdoor that would subvert the encryption that not only kept the   shooter’s phone secure, but also the smartphones of millions of   other Apple users. ” ’   Most in the technology community rallied around Apple at the   time, arguing that  might help government investigators, but   it would also make customers vulnerable to hackers. ’ ’   Now, with  having been leaked online, it appears they were   right. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”The NSA’’s stance on vulnerabilities seems to be based on the   premise that secrets will never get out. That no one will ever   discover the same bug. That no one will ever use the same bug.   That there will never be a leak,” Cardozo said. ”We know for a   fact, that at least in this case, that’’s not true.” ’ ’   The government eventually backed down from its fight with Apple   in late March, after investigators said they were able to unlock   the shooter’’s phone with the ”.” It never disclosed who that was   or how it broke into the phone. ’ ’   Exactly how the FBI got into the phone is yet another case where   the government is holding on to ”zero days,” or software exploits   that are completely unknown to companies and users. These   exploits, when found, are typically disclosed to vendors so they   can fix the problem, used by hackers to break into systems more   easily, or sold on the black market. ’ ”   But Cardozo believes the FBI’s exploit of the San Bernardino   shooter’s iPhone 5C, its still unknown exploit of the  and NSA’s apparent hoarding   of exploits that have now been made public, raises a larger issue   around the legalities of government hacking. ” ’   ”When the government finds, creates, or discovers a vulnerability   in a system, there are essentially two things they can do: They   can disclose it, or they can use it,” he said. ”But the rules   around that are completely broken.” ’ ’   There are some guidelines around how the government is supposed   to deal with vulnerabilities in what is called the  a framework that is   supposed to outline how and when it would make sense to disclose   a vulnerability to an affected company if the larger security   risk is greater than the reward it could yield. ’ ’   But the VEP is just nonbinding guidance created by the Obama   administration  —   not an executive order or law  —   that has no   legal standing. ’ ’   ”We need rules, and right now there aren’’t any,” Cardozo said.   ”Or at least none that work.” ’