’  ’ ’   Bill Clinton   ’ ’   ’ ”     That’s a good start, but it doesn’t go far enough.   ” ”     The decision would limit  —   though not eliminate  —   the conflicts     of interest, both perceived and real, that would be created by     a global foundation headed by the man who was the 42nd     president of the US and the woman who would be the nation’s     45th.   ” ’     US election law bars a candidate from accepting donations from     foreign entities and corporations, but it makes no such     restrictions on who can and cannot cut a check to the family     foundation of that same candidate. While the Clintons are now     promising to build that firewall for themselves if they win the     White House, this announcement does nothing to prevent foreign     entities from splashing the foundation pot during the final     months of the general election.   ’ ”     The Clintons’ cozy relationship with their foundation’s global     patrons was a problem when Hillary was secretary of state, and     it is a problem now that she’s running for president. And it     would remain one if she ends up in the White House, since the     foundation is still actively accepting donations today, when     she is the overwhelming favorite to get there. You can still     believe Donald Trump would be a far worse president  —   one with     even bigger and  conflicts of interest  —   and     acknowledge that this is a legitimate issue of concern about     Clinton.   ” ’     Take, for example, the recently released State Department     emails that  between     the Clinton Foundation and the   agency, or the story     of the wealthy foundation donor who      on a sensitive government intelligence advisory panel after     Hillary became secretary of state.   ’ ”     Did the donors write a check to the foundation because their     interests overlap? Or do their interests align because the     donor cut that check? Chicken, meet egg. But you don’t need to     believe the Clintons are guilty of intentionally engaging in     quid pro quo (though it’s not crazy to think they may     have) to know that there is something wrong with a dynamic     where it is  or     even that they didn’t.   ” ’  ’ ”     Even if Hillary were somehow able to completely separate the     donations  —   to say nothing of her and her husband’s speaking     fees, which have often come from many of the same corporations     who fund their family foundation  —   from her official       she simply has no way of preventing the     appearance of pay for play. And the mere perception of access     matters, both in the financial marketplace and in the political     one. The Clintons are too smart not to realize that. They     didn’t create our flawed system, but they have proved masters     at working within it.   ” ”     The Clinton Foundation has done admirable work promoting global     health and human rights around the globe, and it and its donors     should be lauded for that. But as long as Hillary Clinton is     either running for the White House or running the country from     inside it, she and her husband should temporarily shutter their     foundation. If their donors are truly being driven only by     altruism  —   and not by access  —   there is no reason they wouldn’t     find another nonprofit for their charitable contributions     during the next four or eight years. Hillary and Bill,     meanwhile, would be free to focus on making the world a better     place from inside the highest office in the land.   ”