’  ’ ’   Nigeria finally did the painful thing everyone said that it had   to do. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Nigeria has plenty of examples of how this can spiral out of   control. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   If you had been planning a trip to England on, say, June 23, you   might have looked at some hotels, shows in the city’s West End,   and train fares to Stonehenge and found that all that fun   will cost you about  ” ’  ’ ’   Then, Brexit happens. British voters unexpectedly choose to leave   the EU. Overnight, the value of the British pound plummets and   all of a sudden that $1, 480 trip will cost you $1, 390. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   This makes things more predictable. Consider, instead of London,   a vacation to Dubai  —   to see an  and some unbelievably tall buildings. ’ ’   ’ ”   Here’s what a currency peg would look like on a chart, featuring   the Nigerian naira. Notice that, unlike with the pound against   the dollar, the line on this chart is straight  —   until the nation   finally broke the peg in June: ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Obviously, you don’t literally tie one currency to another.   Rather, a country has to, in effect, offset the effects of the   market by artificially controlling supply and demand for its own   currency. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Thailand was a star performer from the   to 1996. The   economy grew within a range of 8. 1% and 13. 3% from 1987 to 1995,   . ’ ’  ’ ’    ’ ’  ’ ”   The baht ended up falling by as much as 60% against the dollar by   October 24 of that year, . Operations in 58 of the country’s 91 finance   companies were suspended. ” ’   The depreciation of the baht was followed by a chain reaction of   people speculating against other Southeast Asian currencies,   including the Malaysian ringgit, the Philippine peso, and the   Indonesian rupiah. By fall 1997, the turbulence then spread to   South Korea, Hong Kong, and China. And then, in 1998, it spilled   into Russia and Brazil. ’ ’   ”It is apparent in hindsight that this dilemma could have been   avoided by allowing the currency to appreciate during the earlier   period of capital inflows, when there was no threat of a sudden   loss in value in the currency,” argued  at the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. ’ ’  ’ ”   In 1989, prices in Argentina were rising so quickly that   supermarkets didn’t even bother to update price tags. Instead,   they just read out the prices over intercoms, . ” ’    ’ ’  ’ ’   In Buenos Aires, ”bands of angry youths, armed with sticks, steel   bars and in some cases firearms, roamed poor neighborhoods   burning tires, battling the police and looting food stores,”   . ’ ’  ’ ’   Domingo Cavallo was the guy who had to try to solve this. As   minister of the economy in 1991, he came up with a plan known as   ”Covertibilidad”  —   or ”convertibility.” It pegged the Argentine   austral  —   now called the peso  —   at 10, 000 to the dollar. ’ ’   Over the   the strategy worked and helped bring   inflation from . But, eventually,   Argentina ended up running into the negative effects of having a     rate. ’ ’  ’ ”   This was evident when the Asian financial crisis bled into   Brazil, and the  plunged. The peso, still linked to the dollar,   did not. This left Argentine exports significantly more expensive   relative to those of Brazil, taking a toll on Argentina’s economy   and making it harder for the government to repay its debts. ” ’   ”Lower export takings have limited the country’’s ability to earn   the foreign currency needed to repay   debts,”   . And ”a decline in world prices for farm product, and the   global economic slowdown of recent months, only worsened   Argentina’’s problems.” ’ ’  ’ ”   Although one might think that devaluing the currency would solve   the export problem, Argentina’s other issues made this a   difficult choice. : ” ’   And so, things got worse. Eventually, the government enacted the   ””   in November 2001, which froze bank accounts and allowed   withdrawals of only . ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   By February 2003, the peso had fallen by about 70% against the   dollar, . Inflation rose   again after the currency was   although, on the positive   side, it didn’t skyrocket to the levels of the late 1980s. ” ’   ”The currency board [which managed the peg] although it   initially played an essential role in achieving disinflation, was   an inherently risky enterprise; it changed over time from being a     to becoming a   factor, as   the policy orientation shifted from a ’’ ’’ to a   ’’ ’’ regime,” the  noted. ’ ’  ’ ’   Nigeria’’s currency, the naira, has had an ”erratic,   (un) predictable, violent and full of heartbreak and tears”   relationship with the dollar and other foreign currencies since   the   . ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   The country pegged the naira to the dollar a few years ago to   help stabilize the currency. But amid lower oil prices, the   Central Bank of Nigeria had to spend about 20% of its foreign   reserves defending the peg from late 2014 to June 2016, according   to figures from the bank, . ’ ’  ’ ’    ’ ’  ’ ’    ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   That being said, the currency’s devaluation alone is not enough   to solve all of Nigeria’s problems, which continue to suffer   lower oil prices, ongoing  by the    and a shrinking . ” ’  ’ ’  ’