’  ’ ” This story originally  on CityLab’s sister   site, . ” ’   Los Angeles is a bifurcated city. North of the 10 and west of the   405 sits a cluster of neighborhoods that, for the most part, have   adequate access to public resources  —   the schools are pretty   good,   income is reasonably high, and there are grocery   stores that residents can afford. ’ ’   ”But south of the 10, there’’s neighborhood after neighborhood   that is excluded from the general economy, from the education   system, and definitely from the healthy food world,” says Sam   Polk, the   and CEO of Everytable. ”That’’s why we   started in South LA.” ’ ”   Everytable is a new kind of    joint that, on   Saturday, marked its official opening with a party outside its   first South Los Angeles location. Its modern, spare, trendy decor   looks straight out of Silverlake, but it sits right in the middle   of a food desert in one of the city’s poorest areas. There are   some grocery stores here, but they sit too far apart from one   another, especially considering many residents lack access to a   car. Lots of shopping gets done at convenience stores, and lots   of food gets picked up at very inexpensive,     restaurants. ” ”   That’s the atmosphere that Everytable is trying to fit itself   into, while at the same time increasing local access to healthy,   cheap food. To get it done, they’re using an innovative pricing   model, charging different prices for a meal in different store   locations, so that   restaurants can help subsidize   those found in   areas. ” ”   At its first South LA location, Everytable is selling each plate   of food for around $4. For that amount, you can get a bowl of   pozole rojo, spaghetti squash, Jamaican jerk chicken, or yucatan   chili, all cooked in a central kitchen in Redondo Beach by Chef    of New York’s  fame. In the   downtown location that’s expected to open in November, that same   food will cost around $8. ” ’   ”We take into consideration the economic realities of the local   community,” says David Foster, Everytable’’s other  . ”We   wanted to make the food as accessible as possible so that we   could hopefully make some strides toward getting people what we   think is a human right, which is access to healthy, fresh,   delicious food.” ’ ’   To keep costs low, everything is packed in   containers at   that central kitchen and then delivered to the shops, where   customers can choose to grab and go or heat the food up in one of   the available microwaves and eat in the store. That way, the   company avoids the costly overhead associated with a full kitchen   and staff for every restaurant. Only two people staff each store,   mainly to work the    machines. ’ ’  ’ ’   As a result, Foster and Polk say even the restaurants in     neighborhoods should turn a profit, though the margins   will be thin. ’ ”   This isn’t the founders’ first foray into the world of healthy   food access in South LA. Everytable grew out of Polk’s South LA     organization  which provides fresh produce,   nutrition education, cooking classes, and a support group to   participants in the neighborhood. In 2014, Foster started working   with Groceryships as a volunteer, and eventually he and Polk   thought up a new idea. ” ’   ”We were hearing from a lot of participants that [the program]   was helpful, but that it’’s also difficult to eat healthy every   day when you’’re busy with multiple jobs and multiple kids,” says   Foster. ”So we started to talk about what else we could do. And   that’’s really where the idea for Everytable came about.” ’ ’   Everytable is arriving with a wave of other restaurants and   organizations trying to improve healthy food access in LA. In   January, Roy Choi and Daniel Patterson opened up  another restaurant trying to provide   affordable healthy options in the middle of a food desert  —   this   one in the Watts neighborhood. ’ ’   Once their downtown location is open, Everytable plans to open   restaurants in Inglewood, Comtpon, Boyle Heights, West Hollywood,   Venice, and Culver City, to name just a few. They plan to have   four stores open by the end of 2016, and another 10 open by the   end of 2017, says Foster. ’ ”   And they intend to spread the message with broad canvassing   efforts and    publicity. In South LA, that wasn’t too   difficult thanks to all the Groceryships participants and the     and community organizations that already knew Polk. ” ’   Polk also has a relationship with Father Greg Boyle of Homeboy   Industries, an organization that dedicates itself to   rehabilitating   members and formerly incarcerated people   in Boyle Heights. Boyle launched a pilot program of Groceryships   out of Homeboy Industries in 2013, the  reported. ’ ’   That connection with the community has guided their work so far,   says Polk. ”This is about showing respect and humility to this   community. This is about engaging with the people here so   [Everytable] wasn’’t something we were bringing in, it was   something that was growing from the community.” ’