’  ’ ”   About a year ago, Martin Shkreli’s Turing   Pharmaceuticals  raising   awareness about how the cost of a drug can skyrocket   virtually overnight, especially when it doesn’t face much   generic competition. ” ’   Today, drug prices are still going up across the board. Case   in point: the EpiPen. ’ ’   In 2007, when drugmaker Mylan bought the   autoinjecting device, which contains epinephrine (otherwise   known as adrenaline) the list price was $57. Now, a     EpiPen will set you  according to     price comparison website GoodRx. Since 2009,   when it was $100 for a pack of two, the price has gone   up about 500% (though the price varies among pharmacies). ’ ’   The price increases have helped transform the EpiPen into a    despite it being a     product. ’ ”   Meanwhile,  some desperate patients who   can’t afford EpiPens anymore have turned to filling syringes with   epinephrine themselves  —   an extremely tricky and potentially   dangerous alternative. ” ’   The EpiPen has competitors, though one, called  has   . The other, called   Adrenaclick, is a little different to use (it uses two caps   instead of one, for example) and costs more than $400 without   insurance,  (though  may be available with   coupons). ’ ’   A generic version of the EpiPen ; the agency cited ”certain major deficiencies.” ’ ”   These devices are used in emergencies to treat anaphylaxis, a   severe allergic reaction that  struggle to breathe, or get a   skin rash. It’s a common symptom of severe allergies, with one   report saying about  in the US could be at risk. And these medications,   which are kept on hand in case of an allergic reaction, expire   about once a year, which means you have to stay up to date with   new prescriptions even if you haven’t used a past one. ” ’   In  reported August 9, Mylan   attributed its increased sales for specialty drugs (up 33% over   2015) to ”higher unit volumes and the realization of the benefits   of customer contract negotiations over the last several quarters   related to the EpiPen ” combined with higher sales   for some of its other specialty products. ’ ’   In response to questions about its high list price, Mylan noted   in a statement emailed to Business Insider that about 80% of   people with commercial insurance who also used a ”My EpiPen   Savings Card” received the device for $0. ’ ’   ”With changes in the healthcare insurance landscape, an   increasing number of people and families are enrolled in high   deductible health plans, and deductible amounts continue to   rise,” Mylan said in the statement. ”This shift has presented new   challenges for consumers, and they are bearing more of the cost.   This change to the industry is not an easy challenge to address,   but we recognize the need and are committed to working with   customers and payors to find solutions to meet the needs of the   patients and families we serve.” ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tAs a mom of a kid with food allergies, this is seriously infuriating.      ’ ’ ’ ’   Politicians, including Sen. Bernie Sanders (  Vermont) and Sen.   Amy Klobuchar (  Minnesota) are weighing in on the issue as   well. ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tThere’s no reason an EpiPen, which costs Mylan just a few dollars to make, should cost families more than $600.  ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tCalling on Mylan Pharmaceutical to reduce price of EpiPen. Price rose from $100 in 2009 to $600 this year.   ’ ’   On Saturday, Klobuchar  hearing to   investigate the price increase. Sen. Chuck Grassley ( ) on   Monday also  regarding the cost. ’