’  ’ ’   Pablo Escobar is remembered as the face of the Medellin cartel,   the Colombian criminal organization that flooded the world with   cocaine in the 1980s. ’ ’   But for all his deeds and bluster, Escobar was just one member of   a clan of traffickers who helped create the Medellin cartel. ’ ’   And in terms of narco eccentricities, one Medellin capo stands   out: Carlos Lehder Rivas. ’ ’   Born to a German father and Colombian mother in Armenia, a   district in   Colombia,  Lehder spent most of his childhood   in Colombia, but after his parents separated, he  to New York City when he was 15,   Colombian newspaper El Espectador reported in 2012. ’ ’   In the US, he got involved in  working on the US East Coast and   in Canada  a   ring and moving   marijuana He got picked up for car theft in    and was sent to federal prison in   Danbury, Connecticut. His brief stint in jail would forever   . ’ ’   George Jung, the now famous drug smuggler and subject of the   movie ”Blow,” was Lehder’’s cell mate and  the   as well   mannered and well dressed. As Jung  even while locked up for minor   crimes, Lehder had his mind on a more ambitious criminal   enterprise: ’ ’   ”It was like destiny” that Jung and Lehder ended up together at   Danbury, Mike Vigil, a former chief of international operations   for the Drug Enforcement Administration, told Business Insider. ’ ’   Jung and Lehder were released in the late 1970s, but they soon   hooked up again, setting up an  that moved   cocaine from Colombia to the southeastern US. ’ ”   As their operation expanded in the late ’70s and early ’80s,   Lehder grew closer to the capos back in Medellin, and in the   Caribbean, they looked for a way station for their bustling   trafficking business. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Vigil, a DEA official at the time, traveled to Marion to meet   Lehder upon his return to the US: ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   The nearly 30 years he has spent in prison have weighed on him.   He has accused the US of violating his rights and  to let him out in return for his Noriega   testimony. He has  to Colombian President Juan Manuel   Santos, asking for help to repatriate himself so that he can     —   a wish he might well   get upon returning. ’ ’  ’