’  ’ ”   Fitbit did not steal Jawbone’s trade secrets, according to a   ruling issued on Tuesday by the US International Trade Commission   (ITC). ” ”   The case began when Jawbone accused Fitbit of poaching its   employees and using their knowledge of Jawbone’s trade secrets.   Jawbone also claimed that Fitbit violated some of Jawbone’s   patents. Jawbone’s hope was that the ITC would ban Fitbit from   importing its products to the US from its overseas manufacturing   partners. ” ’   Jawbone and Fitbit make devices overseas and import them to the   US. ’ ’   The ruling means that Fitbit will be able to continue to import   its products to the US and sell them. ’ ’   ”[N] ’ ’   ”We are pleased with the ITC’’s initial determination rejecting   Jawbone’’s trade secret claims,” said Fitbit CEO James Park   said in a statement to Business Insider. ”We greatly appreciate   the ALJ’’s [administrative law judge’’s] time and diligent work   on this case. From the outset of this litigation, we have   maintained that Jawbone’’s allegations were utterly without merit   and nothing more than a desperate attempt by Jawbone to disrupt   Fitbit’’s momentum to compensate for their own lack of   success in the market.” ’ ’   A Jawbone representative provided a statement, saying   that the company intends to ask for a review of the ITC ruling. ’ ’   ”We intend to seek review of today’’s ruling before the full   Commission,” the rep said. ”The case in the ITC involved a very   small subset of Jawbone’’s trade secrets asserted against   Flextronics and Fitbit because of the limited jurisdiction of the   ITC. Jawbone is continuing to pursue its much broader trade   secret case against Fitbit, which is headed to a jury trial in   California state court. The California court already has granted   a preliminary injunction and rejected Fitbit’’s efforts to dismiss   the case. Jawbone is confident it will prevail when the full   scope of its claims is heard by the jury.” ’ ”   The ITC invalidated the last of Jawbone’s patent claims in April,   and the case came down only to Jawbone’s accusation that Fitbit   stole Jawbone’s trade secrets. ” ’  ’ ”   Fitbit is the most popular   maker with almost 25%   global market share at the end of the first quarter of 2016,   . Jawbone’s market share is too small to   crack IDC’s list of top wearable device makers. ” ”   The ITC decision was something Jawbone had hoped would be in its   favor. This spring, Jawbone’s CEO, Hosain Rahman, told   Business Insider that he felt confident the ITC would ban   Fitbit from importing its products, giving Jawbone the advantage   by default. ” ’   But as the case dragged on, Jawbone has had its share of   troubles. It raised a new round of funding  —   $165 million  —   in   January at about half its previous valuation: $1. 65 billion   versus its previous valuation of $3. 3 billion, . Jawbone declined to comment on its   valuation. ’ ”   Sameer Samat, a Google executive hired as Jawbone’s   president, left the company and returned to Google in January   after less than a year on the job. ” ”   Jawbone has also tried to sell its Jambox Bluetooth   speaker business, a source familiar with Jawbone’s plans   told Business Insider earlier this year. But Jawbone’s hope was   that a buyer would pay a premium for the Jambox brand. The   company hasn’t had any luck finding a buyer, according to the   source. A Jawbone representative says that there are   several parties interested in the Jambox business. ” ”   Jawbone also hasn’t released a new fitness tracker since   spring 2015 and has sold inventory to a   reseller, a   source told Business Insider this spring. The company says that   it remains committed to making wearables. A Jawbone rep says   the company still has   inventory. ” ’   Most of Jawbone’’s effort has gone into developing a new   ”clinical grade” wearable that can track health data like   blood pressure, according to a source. Rahman, Jawbone’’s CEO,   also told Business Insider this spring that Jawbone was   interested in exploring clinical wearables. ’ ’   But, Jawbone had problems getting the clinical device to work   properly as recently as this spring, the source said. A Jawbone   representative denies the company has had problems with the   new wearable. ’ ’   Most recently, Jawbone lost its head of product, Travis   Bogard, in July, . ’