’  ’ ”   TORONTO  —   About 1, 500 Americans floating down a river that   separates the US from Canada had to be rescued from the water   when strong rains and winds sent them illegally into Canadian   territory, the country’s coast guard said on Monday. ” ’   The Americans were taking part in the annual Port Huron Float   Down on Sunday in the St. Clair River, which runs between the US   state of Michigan and the Canadian province of Ontario. ’ ’   The winds blew the flotilla of inflatable rafts and inner tubes   off course and toward the Canadian shore. Some rafts deflated,   spurring a rescue effort by the Canadian Coast Guard as well as   federal and provincial police, coast guard spokeswoman Carol   Launderville said in an email. ’ ’   Most ”floaters” had to be rescued from the water, with many towed   to shore, according to the coast guard. ’ ’   ”They were terrified of entering another country without   documentation. No one carries their passport or any ID, and a lot   were drinking alcohol,” Peter Garapick, the superintendent of   search and rescue for the coast guard, told CBC television. ’ ’’ ’   Some tried to swim back to the US. ’ ’   ”We had to pull a lot of people out of the water and say, ’’No,’’”   Garapick said. ’ ”   The Americans were gathered at Sarnia, Ontario, and bussed back   to the US by the city’s public transit. ” ’   The Sarnia police did not say whether anyone was charged in the   incident, and only minor injuries were reported. ’ ’   Launderville said the event had no official organizer and posed   ”significant and unusual hazards” because of the river’’s     current and participants’’ lack of life jackets. ’ ’   A Facebook page for the event, which dates back more than 30   years in the city of Port Huron, west of the border from Sarnia,   made a post Sunday night thanking Canadian authorities. ’ ’   ”You’’ve shown us true kindness and what it means to be amazing   neighbors!” the post said. ’ ”   The Facebook page appears to be operated by a group named Port   Huron Float Down, which says on its website it is not an   organizer. The page’s operators did not immediately respond to a   request for comment. ” ’   (Reporting by Ethan Lou in Toronto; Editing by Andrew Hay) ’