’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”It will absolutely thrive in that environment,” retired Air   Force Col. John ”JV” Venable told Business Insider.  ’ ’   At a cool $100 million per jet, Lockheed   Martin’’s ”   ” aircraft is America’’s    and its development has become one of the   most challenged programs in the history of the Department of   Defense.  ’ ’   Since its inception, in 2001, the   has experienced setbacks   that include  and . ’ ’  ’ ’   In July 2015, after cost overruns, design modifications, and   serious testing, the Marine Corps became the first   of the   branches to declare the     fighter . ’ ’   A year and change later, the Air Force  their version of the fifth   generation jet initial operational capability   (IOC). Currently the US Navy variant, the   is   slated to reach IOC by February 2019. ’ ’   ”Having three different types of fighters working for you in that   environment [South China Sea] is also an extraordinary   advantage,” Venable, a fighter pilot and former commander of   the celebrated Air Force Thunderbirds, told Business Insider. ’ ’   With rival territorial claims by Vietnam, Malaysia, Indonesia,   Brunei, the Philippines, Taiwan, and China, the South China Sea  —     rich in natural resources and crisscrossed by shipping routes  —     is  on the   planet. ’ ’  ’ ”   Currently the US, with the world’s largest   navy, dominates the region; however, that is poised to   change as Beijing dramatically expands its naval capabilities. ” ’   ”At some point, China is likely to, in effect, be able to deny   the US Navy unimpeded access to parts of the South China Sea,”   Robert Kaplan, senior fellow at the Center for a New American   Security and author of  ”,” wrote. ’ ’   ”The withdrawal of even one US aircraft carrier strike group from   the Western Pacific is a game changer.” ’ ’   According to Venable, the   designed to marry stealth and   avionics, would thrive in the armed camp that has become the   South China Sea. ’ ’   ”The Chinese would be right to fear the United States Air Force,   United States Navy, and the United States Marine Corps armed with   those jets.” ’