’  ’ ’   Hillary Clinton on Wednesday called the  ”the latest troubling   example of a company taking advantage of its consumers,” sending   drugmakers’’ stocks tumbling in the afternoon. ’ ’   EpiPen   are   devices for people who have   severe allergies that could lead to anaphylactic shock.   While the drug contained in EpiPens is cheap, the device itself,   which is designed to be   and immediately dispense   the correct dosage of the drug, is exorbitantly expensive. ’ ’   The list price for a   of the pens is more than $600,   according to Truven Health Analytics, up from $93. 88 in 2007. ’ ’   ”Over the last several years, Mylan Pharmaceuticals has increased   the price of EpiPens by more than 400%,” Clinton noted in the   statement. ”They’’re now charging up to $600 for a   set   that must be replaced every   months. This both increases      costs for families and first responders, and   contributes to higher premiums for all Americans and their   employers.” ’ ’   The statement called the price hikes ”outrageous.” ’ ”   Senators  —   including, along with members from the Senate   Special Committee on Aging  —   have all chimed in over the  about how the   drug’s price has been set. ” ’   Since Clinton issued the statement on Wednesday afternoon, the   Biotechnology Index has fallen more than 3% while Mylan was down   more than 5%. ’ ’  ’ ’   This is similar to what happened last year,  out an article regarding the   . Biotech   companies and investors have been waiting to see how this   election plays out to see what kind of pressure the   next president places on drugmakers to control prices. ’ ’   ”I believe that our pharmaceutical and biotech industries can be   an incredible source of American innovation, giving us   revolutionary treatments for debilitating diseases,” Clinton   said. ”But it’’s wrong when drug companies put profits ahead of   patients, raising prices without justifying the value behind   them.” ’ ’   Clinton called on Mylan to ”immediately reduce the price of   EpiPens,” and noted her plan to require pharmaceutical   manufacturers to ”prove that any additional costs are linked to   additional patient benefits and better value.” Clinton said that   there was ”no apparent justification” for the high price of   EpiPens. ’ ”   Price increases have helped transform the EpiPen into a  despite it being a     product. A lack of competition has allowed the rapid   increase in price because patients simply don’t have many other   options. ”