’  ’ ’   Donald Trump has been a bit light on policy proposals, especially   when it comes to the economy. ’ ’   He has said, however, that as president he would raise tariffs on   Chinese goods () because the country is   ””   with its low prices in the global marketplace. ’ ’   So what would this look like? What would be the consequences of   aggressive tariffs on global goods? ’ ”   There’s at least one place where we can see how a trade war with   China would play out for the US: the steel industry. For over a   year it has been ravaged by anemic demand and   prices.   China’s incredible output of steel hasn’t helped matters, and the   world has been asking the country to slow its production. In   fact, the US has been taking measures to shore up the price of   domestic steel since President George W. Bush was in office. ” ’   Results have been muted. Last month the US Senate  called ”Evaluating the   Financial Risks of China,” and it focused largely on what China’’s   low steel prices coupled with that country’’s own economic   slowdown had done to American steel. ’ ”   I’ll spare you some reading: It hasn’t been good. ” ’   ”The damage that has been done to the industry has been extreme,”   Thomas Gibson, the president of the American Iron and Steel   Institute, said at the hearing. ’ ’   This after US Steel, in April, announced  laying off 25% of its nonunion workforce. ’ ”   None of this is to say that the US hasn’t taken any recent   action.  by 500%. The   European Union is also taking measures to slow the flow of   Chinese steel into its market. ” ”   But of course that isn’t the end of it by any means. China is in   a precarious position. The country grew its economy by selling   steel (among other commodities) to the world and also by using   steel to build its massive cities (both empty and filled). ” ’   But now the Chinese economy is slowing down. The government also   wants to depend less on industry and manufacturing and grow its   services sector, things like banking and retail. ’ ’   But it still has a huge steel industry that employs millions of   people. The government has said it will fire millions in the   coming years as the industry winds down. That will be painful,   though, and the Chinese government has not shown that it has a   tolerance for pain. Its steel mills are still operational, and   its steel workers are still employed. ’ ”   The country has said it will reduce steel capacity, but those   promised reductions don’t always materialize. ” ’  ’ ”   At the congressional hearing, Gibson said the Chinese government   claimed that 90 million tons of overcapacity in its steel market   had been taken care of from 2011 to 2015. In reality, 300 million   tons had been added to China’s steel output. ” ’   ”They don’’t use the word ’’net,’’” he said. ’ ’   After the US slapped on that 500% tariff,  a controversial tax rebate for   its steel exporters. ’ ”   So this is it people. We’ve got ourselves a nice little trade war   on our hands. ” ”   And how’s the war going? The Australian bank Macquarie published   a note on that on Wednesday. ” ’   ”July’’s global steel crude output data, as released by worldsteel   yesterday, shows world   output to have recovered to   positive YoY territory for the first time in over 18 months,”   analysts wrote. ”This, coupled with China’’s relative resilience   reinforces the view that the global industrial recovery is   gathering some momentum.” ’ ”   Sounds good, right? It sounds as if global steel demand is   starting to come back. The bank says Asia is leading the recovery   with increased Korean and Japanese steel consumption. Smaller   countries are doing better too, though they might be getting     steel by China (and that can’t last). ” ’   The problem is that steel demand isn’’t coming back in the US, and   Macquarie blamed ”  higher prices” for this, even   though the US economy is stable. ’ ’   ”While output has been carefully managed by US producers to help   maintain the   price premium over other regions,   apparent demand is clearly not good at  % YoY over 2016 to   date,” analysts wrote. ”While destocking can explain part of   this, we would reiterate our concern that higher steel prices are   hurting US manufacturing competitiveness (and thus steel demand).   As our recent note showed, the US is the biggest negative drag on   global industrial production at the present time.” ’ ’  ’ ’   So while higher prices are helping the US steel industry to some   degree, they are hurting manufacturers who have to buy that   steel. ’ ’   ”There’’s grumbling that the US mills are taking advantage of a   tight market, and the price hikes are too much, too fast,” Lisa   Goldenberg, the president of Delaware Steel Co. of Pennsylvania,   a steel trading and processing company, told . ’ ’   Trade battles, it turns out, are less like war and more like     . You bring the hammer down on one problem, and   another arises soon after. ’ ’   Meanwhile, some in the steel industry would prefer Trump change   his part of the conversation on tariffs and steel. ’ ’   ”I don’’t think he does our issue any favors by making it so   incredibly jingoistic and bombastic,” said Scott Paul, the   president of the Alliance for American Manufacturing, a group   that allies domestic steelmakers and other manufacturers with the   United Steelworkers union, . ’ ’   Perhaps someone should let Trump know that. ’