’  ’ ’   We are nearing the beginning of what I’’m calling the ”second   great   extinction.” The first extinction happened   after the financial crisis, when numerous     startups went bankrupt and vanished. ’ ’   Since then, the EV market has been dominated by the single   significant survivor, Tesla, and by the experiments of the major   automakers. The   example of the latter is probably the   Nissan Leaf. ’ ”   But various other   cars and   hybrids dot the   automotive landscape. And they aren’t long for this world. ” ”   That’s because the narrative in the future of mobility is   shifting. Since the   it’s been all about alternatives   to   propulsion, chiefly EVs. The remaining, ambitious   players for this story are of course Tesla, which is bringing out   a   vehicle, the Model 3, in 2017; and General Motors,   which wants to rival the Model 3’s   of range with its   own   Bolt, slated to hit the road in late 2016. ” ”   Tesla sales have been growing year after year, but overall EV   sales are declining. It’s possible that GM’s Bolt will validate   the   concept, something that Tesla has kind of already   done, albeit at a much higher price point. ” ’  ’ ”   But the real issue is that the sexier idea right now in the     realm is  . Uber is rolling out a small fleet   of autonomous Volvo SUVs in Pittsburgh, Ford has committed to a   fully autonomous test fleet by 2021, GM is talking about using   its $  investment in Lyft and its acquisition of     startup Cruise Automation to set up a     fleet in big cities, and Google’s work on its driverless Google   Car continues apace. For its part, Tesla has stressed that the   Model 3 launch and the continued development of its Autopilot   technology are the company’s highest priorities. ” ’  ’ ”   To get to full autonomy, you don’t really need to go electric.   Plain old   platforms are fine. They’re available in   massive numbers, are large enough in the case of SUVs to lug   around all the processing power, sensors, and radars you need to   advanced autonomy, and can be refueled in a snap. No waiting   around for an hour or two, which you’re up against even with fast   electric recharging. ” ”   The     car is an elegant solution to   several problems, from global warming to highway fatalities to   time lost in traffic. But it’s also two new technologies being   engineered at the same time. Focus on one or the other and   you probably stand a better chance of winning. ” ’  ’ ”   The pace of driverless advancements also seems to be accelerating   faster than what’s happening with battery chemistry, meaning that   widespread electric mobility for the masses might not happen   before cars can drive themselves.  ” ”   It’s obviously unclear whether consumers will   actually want cars that drive themselves, outside   of   fleets and taxi services. The tech is currently   expensive, and even if the cost comes down, it will still be an     that has to be absorbed by someone, eventually. It remains   to be seen whether car buyers will want to cough up a few   thousand more on the purchase just to get a hyperactive version   of cruise control. ” ”   But it is clear that the   storyline has changed,   probably sooner than anyone expected. And it isn’t about what   makes the cars go  —   it’s about who controls them once they get   going. ”