’  ’ ”   The nation’s opioid overdose epidemic appears to be getting out   of control. ” ’   In Cincinnati, police  in the city over the   course of Tuesday and Wednesday. ’ ’   In southern Indiana, Jennings and Jackson counties reported 14   overdose cases between Tuesday night and Wednesday morning. ’ ’   And Mount Sterling, a small city of about 7, 000 people in   northern Kentucky,  and surrounding Montgomery county on   Wednesday alone. ’ ”   This week’s overdoses follow a similar cluster in Huntington,   West Virginia, last week, when Cabell County officials reported   26 overdose cases in a   period. ” ’   The flood of overdoses has left police and emergency workers   exhausted and, at times, overwhelmed. ’ ’   ”We have never seen anything like this before to this magnitude,”   Gordon Merry, Emergency Management Service director for Cabell   County,  of the Huntington overdoses on Tuesday. ’ ”   In Cincinnati, calls  according to WCPO, an ABC   affiliate. One person overdosed in the bathroom of an ice cream   parlor, another in a McDonald’s, and another while driving,   causing a car crash. While most were revived, one person died   inside a local restaurant. ” ’   Cincinnati police officer Ryan Lay described the   period   as ”” in an interview with WLWT, an NBC affiliate based in   the city. ’ ’   ”It was one call to the next for heroin overdoses,” Lay said. ’ ’   Another Cincinnati officer called the overdoses unprecedented. ’ ’   ”Within a shift, you might consider a shift busy if you have five   or six, and that’’s something to talk about. But to have 10 to 16   in a   gap, that’’s highly unusual and that’’s what alarmed   us to act so quickly,” District 3 Capt. Aaron Jones told WLWT. ’ ’  ’ ’   The close timing among the overdose cases has led some experts to   suspect that the heroin causing the overdose could all be of the   same batch, likely mixed with either fentanyl or carfentanil. ’ ’   ”I’’ve got to say to whoever pushed this out on the street, this   was the wrong thing to do,” Tom Synan, chief of the Hamilton   County Heroin Coalition, told . Synan said the coalition would be working with   Cincinnati police to try to track down the source of the heroin   causing the overdoses. ’ ’   Fentanyl  sometimes prescribed to   treat severe pain in cancer patients. The drug, which is   available in a patch or liquid, is 80 to 100 times as powerful as   morphine and about 40 to 50 times as potent as pure heroin. ’ ’   Carfentanil, meanwhile, . The drug is frequently used   as an elephant tranquilizer. It is  which makes it roughly    as morphine. ’ ’   Synthetic opioids have become more popular in recent years as   producers in China and Mexico have ramped up production.   Incidents of law enforcement officers finding drugs containing   fentanyl jumped 426% from 2013 to 2014, according to a  released   Thursday. The report found that deaths from synthetic opioids   like fentanyl rose by 79% over the same period. ’ ’   ”In contrast to the   fentanyl overdose outbreak, when   deaths were confined to several states, the current epidemic is   unprecedented in scope,” . ’ ’   So far, victims have been telling police that they received the   heroin that caused their overdose from several different dealers   in different areas, including some dealers who gave the drug as a   free sample, Jones told . ’ ’  ’ ”   Van Ingram, executive director of Kentucky’s Office of Drug   Control Policy, told The Lexington Herald Leader that  if the overdoses in Indiana, Ohio, and   Kentucky are from the same heroin source. ” ’   He did, however, say that the time frame of the overdoses, as   well as the close geographical locations of the overdoses, ”begs   the question.” Lab testing, which will likely take several   months, will hold the answer, according to Ingram, but until then   it is impossible to know. ’ ’   ”It’’s a very scary thing,” Ingram said. ”What we see across the   country is the drug cartels moving away from heroin and moving   toward these opioids they’’re going to produce themselves. People   think they’’re buying one thing and they’’re actually buying   another. The stuff they’’re selling is so powerful. Some of the   stuff we’’re seeing produced is 50 times more potent than heroin,   as if heroin wasn’’t bad enough.” ’ ’   Police in Huntington suspect that last week’’s overdoses were   caused by a batch of heroin mixed with fentanyl, or perhaps   ”,” police chief Joe Ciccarelli told Stat   News. Huntington has seen a wave of overdoses caused by fentanyl   since early 2015, he added. ’ ’   Health and law enforcement officials in Hamilton County in Ohio   have made similar intimations  in the heroin   causing the overdoses over the last several days. Police have   routinely found heroin mixed with fentanyl and carfentanil in   recent weeks, Lt. Tom Fallon of the Hamilton County Heroin   Coalition told The Courier Journal. ’ ’   ”Both of these can have deadly consequences, especially if the   user is unaware of their presence in the drug supply,” he said. ’ ’   The difficulty for users is that such mixed or laced drugs are   rarely if ever described as such by dealers, Jessica Sageser,    told WCPO. ’ ’   ”It’’s not like they hand you your dope and say, ’’Here’’s the   carfentanil dope. ’’ You don’’t know,” Sageser said. ’ ’   Further complicating matters is the fact that the more potent   laced or mixed drugs do not respond as well to naloxone, a drug   that can instantly reverse an opioid overdose. Because   carfentanil and fentanyl are so much more potent than heroin,   they frequently require multiple doses of naloxone to prevent   victims from falling back into the overdose when the naloxone   wears off. ’ ’   Police in Seymour, Indiana, said they  to revive one overdose victim   on Wednesday. Similar stories have popped up in Cincinnati. ’ ’   ”We have been receiving reports from some of our colleagues in   the healthcare systems that people have had to be put on IVs of   naloxone just to keep them and bring them back,” Hamilton County   assistant health commissioner Craig Davidson told . ”The carfentanil is that strong that, again, one, two   or (even) three doses sometimes is not enough.” ’