’An Israeli company named NSO Group  the hacking tool for iPhones that forced ’ ’The tool was apparently discovered in a hacking attempt on a human rights activist in the United Arab Emirates, but details on the   company are hard to come by.’ ”That’s because NSO Group sells sophisticated hacking tools to governments, militaries, and intelligence agencies  —   and it tries to keep such a low profile it even  on a regular basis.” ”Its profile is likely to be raised in the  by Lookout Security and Citizen Lab’s Bill Marczak and John   who exposed a major iOS security flaw that allows an attacker to take full control of an iPhone using nothing more than a text message.” ’NSO Group cofounders Omri Lavie and Shalev Hulio did not respond to a request for comment.’ ”Here’s what we know so far.” ”Headquartered in Herzelia, Israel, NSO Group was founded in Dec. 2009 by Omri Lavie and Shalev Hulio, according to both cofounders’ LinkedIn profiles, which show they are both serial entrepreneurs who had previously started a number of other companies in Israel. A third founder,  left the company shortly after its inception and left Lavie and Hulio as majority shareholders.” ’The San   private equity firm Francisco Partners  in NSO for $120 million in 2014, though its operations remain in Israel. ’ ’Hulio says  he was a company commander with the Israel Defense Forces, while Lavie says he was an employee of the Israeli government.’ ”At least three of its current employees claim to have worked in Unit 8200, Israel’s version of the US National Security Agency.” ’The company  in vague terms on its LinkedIn, saying it is ”’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’Its clients have reportedly included Panama and Mexico, though a person familiar with the company  the Wall Street Journal it does business all over the world.’ ”NSO received $8 million from Panama’s government for its Pegasus spy software,  to a local press account. And with this latest research from Citizen Lab  on Ahmed Mansoor, a human rights activist living in the United Arab Emirates, it’s likely that government has purchased the software as well.” ”The company’s annual earnings were approximately $75 million in 2015,  to Reuters.” ’’ ’”Your smartphone today is the new ” NSO cofounder Omri Lavie  the Financial Times that year. ”Most of your typical solutions for interception are inadequate, so a new tool had to be built. ”’ ’’ ’ ’ ’”We’re a complete ghost,” Lavie  Defense News in 2013. ”We’re totally transparent to the target, and we leave no traces. ”’ ’In order to attack the latest iOS software, the company’’s spyware utilized three ” ” exploits  —   software bugs that have not yet been fixed  —    ”the most sophisticated attack” it had ever seen.’ ”Lookout believes Pegasus has possibly been in use to hack iPhones going all the way back to iOS 7. Apple’s latest software update,  prevents this attack from working.” ’NSO Group does have a LinkedIn profile which lists nsogroup. com as its domain name, but that, unfortunately, leads to nowhere. A look back at their website through history via The Wayback Machine showed four different snapshots taken, all of which ’ ”Though the domain name was registered in April 2008, it doesn’t seem to have ever had any content for potential customers to view.”