’  ’ ’   In the late 1990s to   there was perhaps no better   indicator of affluence than the McMansion, a     suburban home that typically measures between 3, 000 and 5, 000   square feet. ’ ’   In this era of speculative homebuilding before the 2008 financial   crisis, bigger was considered better, and buyers sought homes   with the same general list of features: five or more bedrooms, a     garage, and cathedral ceilings in the master bedroom or   living room, for example. ’ ’   It used to be the case that although McMansions would cost more   to construct, they would also sell for more than a typical   starter home. ’ ”   But according to a new report from  that just isn’t the case anymore. Bloomberg cites   data from Trulia that shows that the premiums paid for McMansions   have declined significantly in 85 of the country’s 100 biggest   cities. ” ’   To cite one example, in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, the extra money   that buyers were expected to be willing to pay to own a McMansion   fell by 84% from 2012 to 2016. ’ ”   In that same city in 2012, a typical McMansion would be valued at   $477, 000, about 274% more than the area’s other homes. Today, a   McMansion would be valued at $611, 000, or 190% above the rest of   the market. ” ’   McMansions are often despised for their mishmash of architectural   styles and general ostentatiousness. ’ ’   ”People used to buy a home under the assumption that they would   be living there until the end of a long, nebulous concept of   time. A house was for life, a marriage of sorts,” the anonymous   writer of  a      blog that criticizes the design flaws inherent in   the American McMansion, told Business Insider. ’ ’   ”The McMansion was never designed to last forever . .. [it] was   built cheaply in order to get maximum items checked off the     list for the lowest cost. The designing of houses from   the inside out caused the rooflines to be massive and complex.” ’ ’  ’ ’   The author of McMansionHell  —   whose ire for the home style began   when they saw their rural North Carolina neighborhood be   transformed into what they called ”Anywhere USA”  —   said that they   hope their criticisms of the McMansion will help bring an end to   this architectural era. ’ ’   ”Among the general population, a positive trend is emerging:   People are starting to see that bigger isn’’t always better  —   this   is evidenced by the   phenomenon that’’s been sweeping   the nation the last couple of years,” they said, adding that   McMansions could be declining in value in part because  longer to buy homes. ’ ’   ”However, I started McMansionHell with the goal of educating   people about architecture and making them aware of the flaws of   these houses (both architectural and sociological) through a   combination of humor and easily digestible information in a way   people who wouldn’’t otherwise care about architecture can get   engaged with. If my work can stop just one person from bulldozing   a forest to build an oversized house that’’s a blight on the   environment, then I would call McMansionHell a very successful   project.” ’