’  ’ ’   The Colombian government and  ’ ”   Colombia emerged as a global hub for cocaine production in the   1980s (recently ) and   since that time, the FARC has been heavily involved in the drug’s   production and trafficking, currently controlling as much as 70%   of the country’s crop and therefore about 40% of world supply,    to Insight Crime. ” ’   As a part of the peace accord, FARC leadership  to work with the Colombian government   to eliminate coca and marijuana production in the areas of the   country controlled by the rebel group. The FARC also  to help farmers who produce illicit   crops change over to legal ones and to aid development in poor   rural areas, long neglected because of the   conflict. ’ ’   Criminal groups and economic concerns stand in the way of these   goals, however. ’ ”   Even if the FARC totally fulfills its commitment to disarming and   leaving behind its illegal activities, there are a plethora of   criminal groups that could pick up the slack. Criminal bands,   commonly referred to in the county as BACRIM, are active   throughout Colombia, and reports indicate that they are   salivating at the prospect of assuming the FARC’s role in the   drug trade. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’ over,” McDermott said. ’ ”   The FARC is not Colombia’s only rebel group either. The National   Liberation Army, or ELN, also has a presence in the country,   though it is much smaller than the FARC’s. ” ’   The Colombian government has stepped up its efforts to bring the   ELN to heel and prevent it from moving further into the drug   trade. For its part, the ELN has continued to  lethal  on Colombian police. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”As the FARC move out of some of the areas of the country where   they’’ve been dominant . .. there is a risk that these existing . ..   criminal groups do move in,” Anna Szterenfeld,  .   ”So it means that for the government, there’’s still going to be a   tremendous need to have a strong security presence in these areas   of the country.” ’ ’   There is also a likelihood that many FARC elements, either   dissatisfied with the peace deal or enticed by criminal profits,   will remain in the drug trade, consolidating the market share   vacated by those FARC groups that do demobilize. A FARC group in   remote eastern Colombia has  its refusal to disarm. ’ ”   Other FARC members may make the jump to one of Colombia’s many   criminal organizations, continuing the same activities under new   management. Many do already, according to Alcibiades Escue, the   mayor of a town in southwest Colombia. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   The appeal of lucrative criminal economies may keep some FARC   elements in the underworld, but for many Colombian farmers who   cultivate those illegal crops and sell them to criminal groups,   the drug trade is less an opportunity and more of an imperative. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   The government has proposed some schemes to convince Colombians   to give up drug cultivation. In addition to subsidies for   growers, the  aimed at transitioning farmers to legal crops like   bananas and other fruits. ’ ’   A   pilot program has  but   there are doubts that such programs will be applicable in other   parts of the country, where those crops are not viable or where a   lack of infrastructure makes getting those crops to the market   unfeasible. Moreover, farmers who have already gone through the     process have found their new crops bring in    of what coca did. ’ ’   In contrast, when farmers grow marijuana or coca leaves, criminal   groups . ’ ’   While some Colombians are skeptical of government efforts to ween   the population off illicit crops, others are openly hostile. ’ ’   ”We will confront anyone who touches our plants,” Fernando   Zapata, the communal president of a village in     Colombia,  earlier this   summer. ”They want to do away with the livelihood of our families   and the entire region.” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Even if peace is signed there won’’t be peace,” Jeymi Orozco, 19,   who works in the drug trade in southwest Colombia, . ”They will all come, all the   gangs. And if the government tries to eradicate coca and   marijuana there will be more struggle.” ’