’  ’ ”   Most college professors are Democrats because Republicans don’t   accept scientific reality. ” ”   That’s according to William Snider, founding director and   professor in the Department of Neurology at the University of   North Carolina at Chapel Hill. ” ’   He wrote an    for The News & Observer after Phil Berger, the Republican   leader of the North Carolina Senate, accused UNC of   discriminating against Republican academics who fail to ”.” ’ ”   Twelve out of 13 professors at the University of North Carolina   are Democrats, according to Berger, who suggests that’s evidence   for his claim of discrimination. ” ’   It’’s a bit unclear if college professors are as overwhelmingly   liberal as Berger says.  cites the sociologist Neil Gross, who estimates   about half of professors describe themselves as ”left or   liberal,” and another 19% identify as moderates. That makes the   professoriat more left than not  —   but not by the overwhelming   margin the 12:1 ratio at UNC would suggest. ’ ’’ ’   Gross, however, also finds that academics are much less likely to   be strong conservatives than most Americans. Only 4% fall into   that category  —   as well as another 23% on social and military   issues. ’ ’   To explain the discrepancy, Snider wrote that college professors,   particularly scientists, tend to   affiliation with the   Democratic Party because their profession necessitates beliefs   that align with it. ’ ’   A  found that 43% of Republicans   believe in evolution, which Snider notes is the ”central   organizing principle of modern biology.” Of the 17 Republican   politicians who sought the party’’s presidential nomination this   year, . And, as   Snider notes, ”several of the candidates were on record stating   that they did not accept evolutionary theory.” ’ ’   ”How should scientists react to this?” Snider wrote. ”If   Republican leaders don’’t believe [evolution] is true, how can   scientists support them? Further, public funds in NC are directed   at ’’voucher’’ schools that teach that the theory of evolution is   false. How can we join the party that apportions funds in this   way?” ’ ’   He identifies the general Republican position that climate   science is a ””   as even ”more relevant.” ’ ’   (The 2016 Republican Party Platform    that ”climate change is far from this nation’’s most pressing   national security issue” and calls for rejecting the Paris   Agreement and Kyoto Protocol, which call for international   cooperation to combat climate change.) ’ ”   Given the overwhelming scientific consensus on the human causes   and global threat of a warming planet, Snider writes that it’s   hard for researchers to take a party that accuses major research   bodies of conspiracy seriously. ” ’   ”It is also apparent to anyone who follows the issue that many of   the statements claiming that climate science is a hoax are   compromised by economic   related to companies and   individuals who profit from fossil fuels,” he wrote. ’ ”   Snider writes that he worries North Carolina’s Republican   Legislature might punish UNC for not going out of its way to hire   Republicans: ” ”   It’s hard to imagine there’s a massive conspiracy to exclude   Republicans from academia, as Snider notes. It could be illegal   to ask about a job candidate’s political affiliation during a   hiring process, and there are only a few fields  —   sociology is   perhaps one  —   where a candidate’s party politics are likely to   become apparent in their work. ” ”   Other professors, like the   linguist Noam Chomsky, make   their politics known outside their academic work. But that’s more   the exception than the rule. ”