’  ’ ”   One of Bill Ackman’s key researchers on Valeant is leaving   Pershing Square and plans to launch a startup focused   on reducing healthcare costs. ” ”   Jordan Rubin, a member of Ackman’s   investment team, is   leaving Pershing Square Capital Management in the coming weeks   after seven years at the firm. ” ’   As an investment analyst, Rubin, 32, contributed to positions   including Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, Zoetis, Allergan   and Family Dollar. ’ ’   ”I think extremely highly of Jordan,” ”He’’s a very talented, hard   working, smart person, and I think he’’s going to be   enormously successful with his new venture.” ’ ’   Rubin and Bill Doyle, who also recently left Pershing   Square, led the research that resulted in Pershing Square’’s   ”partnership with Valeant in its efforts to merge with Allergan,”   according to a . ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Rubin’s departure comes as Pershing Square hits a rough   patch in performance, largely from positions like Valeant,   which has  partly over concerns about the   company’s . ” ”   The Pershing Square L. P. fund fell  . 2% last year after posting   36. 9% gains the year before, according to a . Pershing Square Holdings, a   publicly traded vehicle that is a proxy for Ackman’s hedge fund,   is  through August 16. ” ’  ’ ’   Rubin joined Pershing Square in 2009 after a stint   at Goldman Sachs, where he worked as an analyst in the   special situations group.  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Other prominent staffers have also departed the firm in   recent months. In May, the firm announced that  who was also behind the Valeant bet, was leaving. ’ ”   Paul Hilal, Ackman’s former second in command, left last   year and is in the .  ” ’   Earlier this year, Pershing Square also cut . ’ ”   But there have also been additions. Jenna Dabbs, a former federal   prosecutor in New York who was hired last year as senior   counsel, joined Ackman’s investment staff earlier this summer,   making her the first woman ever on the team. ”