’  ’ ’   No central bank of a developed country equals the Bank of Japan   in trying to manipulate the stock market up by buying equities.   The BOJ has done this for years. With     ineffectiveness. ’ ’   So on July 28, the BOJ announced another stock market     scheme: it would nearly double its annual purchases of equity   ETFs from about ¥3. 3 trillion to ¥6 trillion ($60 billion). ’ ’   Hedge funds and other speculators expected for the BOJ to   instantly throw its weight around in the stock market, and   hopes were riding high that the Nikkei would surge, or at least   rise in a visible manner. Alas, on Friday in Tokyo, the   Nikkei dropped to 16, 361, down a smidgen from where it had   been on July 28. ’ ’   The debacle was right in line with the BOJ’s prior       schemes. While it managed with its negative interest rate   policy to totally kill off all money market funds in Japan,      and while it managed with its gigantic purchases of Japanese   Government Bonds to completely freeze up the JGB market, the BOJ   has failed to accomplish much of anything in the stock market.   The Nikkei stock index is down 21% from its recent peak in June   last year, and is down 57% from its   peak in 1989. ’ ’   But nearly doubling the ETF purchases should have done something.   So why did the highly anticipated    rally flop? ’ ’’ ’   Now an answer is seeping to the surface. It seems the BOJ is   worried about a stock market crash, triggered by Fed   tightening, and has decided to keep its power dry to be able to   put a floor under plunging stocks later this year. ’ ’   According to the  the BOJ purchased ETFs on   only three days in August through Wednesday: August 3, August 4,   and August 10, totaling ¥176 billion. ’ ’   But its new rate of purchases of ¥6 trillion annually would   mean ¥24 billion in ETF purchases per trading   day. So 18 weekdays in August through Wednesday, minus one   holiday (Mountain Day) should equate to ¥408 billion  —   which left   the BOJ’s purchases short by ¥232 billion. ’ ’   This pile of moolah has been added to its “dry powder. ” Every day   the BOJ is not buying ETFs, its pile of dry powder increases. The   Nikkei Asian Review: ’ ’     The BOJ does not make public the process by which it buys ETFs,     for fear of unduly influencing the market. But an official     offered a passing reference to “last October” by way of     explanation for the conservative approach.   ’ ’   “Last October” means this: Last year, the BOJ had     much of its ETF spending during the   swoon in the   summer, when China was crashing, and Japan followed. Then there   were just ¥500 billion, or two months’ worth of ETF purchases,   left over for the final three months of the year. So in October,   it bought ETFs on just one day, saving up what was left to combat   any   at the end of the year. ’ ’   Hedge funds watch this sort of thing closely to wring some   advantage out of it. Central bank action is all that matters   anymore in the markets  —   at least, that’s the meme: ’ ’     But as 2015 drew to a close, market players nevertheless began     to suspect that the bank was out of options. An extra     ¥  ETF purchase quota added at the BOJ’s December     policy meeting was viewed merely as a   measure and     failed to keep share prices from entering a slide.   ’ ’     This year, too, speculation around US interest rate hikes makes     a stock market slide near the end of the year a real     possibility.   ’ ’   But with stocks going nowhere now, the BOJ has decided to not   waste its powder at the moment, because it wouldn’t accomplish   much anyway. Instead, it would keep its powder dry for when it   was needed. The Nikkei: ’ ’     The BOJ does not explicitly define its buying as a stock price     control measure. But eschewing a regular buying schedule to     tailor purchases to market movements speaks to a significant     level of concern about staving off another slide.   ’ ’   These ETFs are a special   concoction. In a   new twist last December, the BOJ promised to buy ETFs based on   companies that boost wages, employment, and capital spending. But   those ETFs didn’t exist. They’d have to be created first so that   the BOJ could buy them. ’ ’   Major asset managers in Japan have been busy creating these ETFs.   Daiwa Asset Management partnered with index provider MSCI to   develop a special stock index for these anointed companies.   Nomura Asset Management and other firms in the Nomura group also   came up with an index. The first ETFs that track those indices   started trading in May. ’ ’   Everything was ready when the BOJ announced at the end of July   that it would nearly double its purchases of these ETFs. With   every day that the BOJ is not buying, its pile of   dry powder is growing. It is likely that the BOJ, when it   decided to ramp up its ETF purchases in July, already knew why,   and it had nothing to do with inflation or any of the other   pretexts of QE: it was to prepare for the moment when the Fed   made its move despite expectations that it would not, and   when, in response, the markets would unravel. ’ ’   But it’s doubtful that this will work out. Practically nothing   the BOJ has tried to accomplish in the Japanese stock market has   worked out. While stocks might have reacted positively at first,   they invariably ended up tanking. ’ ’     ’