’  ’ ’   The Obama administration has touted its negotiations to remove   chemical weapons from Syria as a major diplomatic achievement. ’ ’   But a new report from the UN Security Council found that the   regime of Syrian President Bashar Assad used chemical weapons   against civilians in violation of the deal the Obama   administration brokered with the help of Russia in 2013. ’ ’   The report confirmed two instances of   attacks   carried out by the Assad regime  —   one in 2014 and one in 2015. ’ ’   ”The Assad regime has learned over the past five years that the   Obama administration will do absolutely nothing to protect Syrian   civilians from mass homicide,” Fred Hof, a senior fellow at the   Atlantic Council and a former special adviser for transition in   Syria under   of State Hillary Clinton, told   Business Insider via email. ’ ’   ”That it should return to the use of weaponized chemicals is not   at all surprising.” ’ ”   And the Obama administration was likely aware that Assad’s forces   were using chemical weapons before the UN report came out. ” ’   ”This is not a surprise to the administration,” Robert Ford, a   senior fellow with the Middle East Institute and US ambassador to   Syria between 2010 and 2014, told Business Insider. ”We have been   getting reports about this chlorine gas for more than a year.   Some Syrian doctors testified [to Congress] last year.   …     So   they’’ve known for a long time. Now with the UN report, they’’re   more on the hook.” ’ ’   An Obama administration official acknowledged that the US   government had suspected the Assad regime was using chlorine gas. ’ ’   The UN report ”back[s] up what we have repeatedly said: time   and again the Syrian regime has used industrial chlorine as a   weapon against its own people in violation of the Chemical   Weapons Convention and UN Security Council Resolution 2118,” the   official said in a statement to Business Insider. ’ ”   While the  on Syria’s chemical weapons didn’t stipulate   that the regime had to get rid of chlorine as a chemical   substance, it did prohibit the government from using it as a   weapon. ” ’   Assad’’s blatant disregard for the deal doesn’’t look good for the   US, considering that the deal was supposed to be President Barack   Obama’’s defense against critics who blasted him for backing down   on his ”red line” in Syria. ’ ’  ’ ”   Obama infamously stated in 2012 that his red line with the Assad   regime would be the use of chemical weapons. The   following year, Assad’s forces killed nearly 1, 500 people in   a   attack. ” ”   But the US didn’t strike. It instead used the chemical weapons   deal as a sort of substitute for military action. ” ’   Jeffrey Goldberg,  earlier this year, wrote that after the deal was   made, Secretary of State John Kerry had ”no patience for those   who argue, as he himself once did, that Obama should have bombed     sites” to protect American credibility on the red   line. ’ ’   And Obama himself said that he was ”very proud” of the deal. ’ ’   ”The perception was that my credibility was at stake, that   America’’s credibility was at stake,” Obama told The Atlantic.   ”And so for me to press the pause button at that moment, I knew,   would cost me politically. And the fact that I was able to pull   back from the immediate pressures and think through in my own   mind what was in America’’s interest, not only with respect to   Syria but also with respect to our democracy, was as tough a   decision as I’’ve made  —   and I believe ultimately it was the right   decision to make.” ’ ”   Now it’s evident that Assad hasn’t held up his end of the   bargain. ” ’   ”Assad and his allies  —   Russia and Iran  —   hold this   administration in absolute contempt,” Hof said. ”Assad rubs the   ’’red line’’ in the president’’s face by returning to chemical   warfare; [Russian President Vladimir] Putin authorizes Russian   aircraft to strike     Syrian rebel units; and   [Iranian Supreme Leader Ali] Khamenei turns loose armed   Revolutionary Guard speedboats to harass American naval assets in   the Strait of Hormuz.” ’ ’   Hof concluded: ”They all sense weakness and they all act   accordingly.” ’ ”   Assad’s flouting of the UN resolution puts Obama in a tough spot,   Ford said. ” ’   ”In any case, it seems that what the Obama administration   highlighted as its biggest achievement on Syria . .. is much less   than the administration itself touted. The administration is now   left with a response that ’’at least the Syrian government is not   using sarin,’’” he said, referring to one of the most toxic     agents in the world. ’ ’  ’ ”   Still, it’s perhaps too soon to tell how this will affect Obama’s   legacy. ” ’   ”It’’s too early to judge because there are a lot of events moving   on the ground in Syria,” Ford said. ”I don’’t rule out the   possibility that in the end, Russia, Iran, and Turkey are going   to agree on the elements of the ceasefire.” ’ ”   For its part, the White House  condemning Assad’s use of chemical   weapons. ” ’   ”It is now impossible to deny that the Syrian regime has   repeatedly used industrial chlorine as a weapon against its own   people in violation of the Chemical Weapons Convention and UN   Security Council Resolution 2118,” Ned Price, spokesman for the   National Security Council, said in the statement. ’ ’   ”We condemn in the strongest possible terms the Assad regime’’s   use of chlorine against its own people.” ’ ’   The US will seek to enforce accountability for the chemical   weapons attack at a UN Security Council meeting next week, the   Obama administration official said. ’ ’   The UN report underscores ”the importance of the effort this   administration led to ensure that Syria also joined the Chemical   Weapons Convention so we can hold them to account,” the official   said. ”That is exactly what we will be pursuing at next week’’s UN   Security Council meeting.” ’ ”   It’s so far unclear what the international community can do   to enforce the UN resolution. ” ’   ”The US and Europe already have so many sanctions on Syria,” Ford   said. ”All of them predate the uprising.   …     So I’m not sure there   are many additional sanctions.” ’ ”   Assad allies that are parties to the UN Chemical Weapons   Convention, like Russia, might be able to inflict some sanctions,   but it’s perhaps unlikely that they will. ” ’   ”It’’s a little hard for me to imagine,” Ford said. ”As a   theoretical possibility, it’’s out there.” ’