’  ’ ’   Donald Trump has dropped numerous hints about his favorite US   president, and it says a lot about what he means by his campaign   slogan ”Make America Great Again.” ’ ’   Though Trump has repeatedly expressed admiration for presidents   such as George Washington, Abraham Lincoln, and Ronald Reagan  —     all   for preferred presidents as a Republican candidate    —    that   helps clear up any debate over his favorite: Dwight Eisenhower. ’ ’   Trump professed his admiration for Eisenhower in a Reddit AMA   last month when he was asked about his favorite president  —     making sure to name Washington, Lincoln, and Reagan as well. ’ ’   Eisenhower, who served as the supreme allied commander in Europe   during World War II, is the most recent person to have been voted   to the presidency without holding prior elected office, a streak   Trump is attempting to break. Only four presidents have ever held   the position without holding prior elected office, and the other   three  —   Herbert Hoover, Ulysses S. Grant, and Zachary Taylor  —     all did so long before Trump was born. ’ ’   With the Manhattan billionaire having been born in 1946,   Eisenhower was the president who represented Trump’’s most   formative years, having served in office from 1953 to 1961. Trump   once lined up with fellow students in the late 1950s to wave at   Eisenhower as he passed by in a limousine on his way to deliver   the first pitch of the World Series between the New York Yankees   and the Brooklyn Dodgers, as reported in the recently released   ”Trump Revealed,” which also noted that Trump, whose father was a   Republican, wore ”I like Ike” pins during Eisenhower’’s reelection   year. ’ ’  ’ ’   Multiple sources have told Business Insider that it is this time   period, the 1950s, that Trump is really referring to when he says   he will make America great again. ’ ’   ”There was almost unparalleled American power and     after World War II,” said Alex Keyssar, a professor of history   and social policy in the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard   University, when asked about why Trump might be most drawn to the   34th president. ”The 1950s is what he, in his mind, had as his   normal and what we should get back to.” ’ ’   Eisenhower was at one time recruited by both the Democrats and   the Republicans to run for the presidency, and Keyssar called him   a ”quasiconsensus candidate.” ’ ’   ”Eisenhower himself was the opposite in terms of the controversy   provoking,” he continued, comparing the two. ”You know, he was   almost bland in a lot of ways. To me, it may be less about   Eisenhower per say than it is about what the ’’50s symbolized to   him.” ’ ’   The   magnate has intermittently tweeted about   Eisenhower in recent years, cited him as the   for   earning the most votes in Republican primary history (though once   saying ”Dwight D. Eisenhower  —   ”) and used a past Eisenhower plan to   defend his immigration positions. ’ ’   ”Let me just tell you that Dwight Eisenhower, good president,   great president, people liked him,” he said in a November primary   debate. ’’I like Ike,’’ right?” ’ ’   ”Moved 1. 5 million illegal immigrants out of this country, moved   them just beyond the border,”  (Trump’’s numbers weren’’t completely   accurate). ”They came back. Moved them again beyond the border,   they came back. Didn’’t like it. Moved them way south. They never   came back.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Trump is also promising a massive infrastructure package  —   double   what Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton would spend, he recently   said, which would end up totaling from about $800 billion to $1   trillion. The Republican president best known for his   infrastructure program is Eisenhower, under whom the interstate   highway system was completed. ’ ’   ”He wants to go back to the ’’50s,” Matt Mackowiak, the Republican   strategist who founded Potomac Strategy Group, told Business   Insider. ”He had something of a privileged upbringing, and he did   like the world as it existed when he was a kid. A lot of us are   developed based on our childhood.” ’ ’   Mackowiak said the thought of Trump comparing himself to   Eisenhower was ”interesting.” ’ ’   ”I think if you sat him down and said, ’’Tell me one thing   Eisenhower did as president,’’ he couldn’’t tell you,” Mackowiak   said. ”I truly don’’t think that. He might say, ’’Well, he was the   supreme allied commander and he was elected president. ’’ That’’s   probably the extent of what he can tell you. But there’’s no   question  —   he might know that Eisenhower led a real eight years   of peace and prosperity. And so, he may have some knowledge of   that.” ’ ”   Mackowiak added that Trump’s references to Eisenhower were most   likely byproducts of Trump’s desire to compare himself to   historical figures. ” ’   ”He wants to compare himself to Eisenhower by saying he won more   votes than Eisenhower did as if beating someone 60 years ago when   the country’’s population was half or a third of what it is today   is an impressive accomplishment,” he said. ”So he does like sort   of dropping names from the past as a way to elevate his status as   a peer of significant historical figures.” ’