’  ’ ”   Mylan has not lowered its price of EpiPen   after a   firestorm of . What it has done is  all it says it’s doing to make the drug more affordable,   like offering to  patients’  .  ” ”   And Mylan says it’s donated 700, 000 packs of EpiPens to   schools in the past four years. It calls the program (fittingly   enough)  and it   provides four free EpiPens to each participating school, and   additional packs at a discount.  ” ’   This is not pure altruism. Those donations have     benefits for the company, from tax breaks to marketing and   branding.  ’ ’   That donation is almost surely tax deductible for Mylan. And it   could be very lucrative if the company is able to take advantage   of a little known extra tax break.  ’ ’   Mylan may be able to deduct not just the cost of the EpiPens it   gives to schools, but also 50% of the difference between its cost   and the sticker price.  ’ ”   We don’t know Mylan’s raw costs of its EpiPens, and whether it   counts the intellectual property in the calculation or just its   production cost (which could be as low as $3 based on generic   estimates) so let’s say its cost is $200 and the sticker   price is $600.  ” ’  ’ ’   That means it could deduct the $200 and half   the difference between 200 and 600 for a total deduction of   $400 per pack.  ’ ’   As it raised the sticker price on EpiPen in recent years, it may   have been able to take bigger deductions on the donation.  ’ ’  ’ ’   There are some big caveats here.  ’ ”   The deduction can’t exceed twice what the goods cost the company.   And the total deduction can’t exceed 10% of the company’s   taxable income.  ” ”   And donations to government don’t qualify for the double     so Mylan likely qualifies for the     only when it donates EpiPens to private   schools.  ” ’   Mylan didn’’t answer Business Insider’’s questions about whether it   realizes tax breaks for its EpiPens4Schools program, instead   sending a boilerplate fact sheet about the ”positive impact of   the program.”  ’ ’   ”I can assure you, from what I know of Mylan, they’’ll take every   loophole,” Bill George, a senior fellow at Harvard Business   School and the former CEO of Medtronic, tells Business Insider.   He said it can be hard to determine from the outside how   companies like Mylan do their accounting.  ’ ”   And there are other reasons why it’s hard to determine exactly   how much Mylan benefits from programs like this.  ” ’  ’ ”   For most of its life, Mylan was a US firm. It was founded in West   Virginia in 1961, and originally known as Milan. (The company    it   changed the name to Mylan to stand out at the bottom of stock   tables’ lists of companies that start with ’M’.)  ” ”   But Mylan is one of the many pharmaceutical companies that’s   inverted  —   changing its registration to a foreign country to   avoid U. S. taxes.  It’s now technically based in The   Netherlands and managed to have a negative tax rate in the US in   2015. That means it actually made money on its taxes.  ” ”   It’s unclear whether Mylan donates the product via its US   division or the Dutch parent company, and where it realizes the   tax savings, if any. Bill George of Harvard says Mylan may take   the deductions in the Netherlands, or could call it a cost of   doing business.  ” ”   Mylan didn’t respond to requests for comment on that question.   It’s possible it already takes advantage of so many tax breaks   that it doesn’t get much additional benefit from this   program.  ” ”   EpiPen4Schools gives thousands of districts a few free packs of   EpiPens. But if the supply is not enough, schools have to   purchase more on their own dime, and each pack has an expiration   date that requires they’re replaced each year.  ” ’   ”Is this really what schools should be spending their not   generous funds on?” said Adrienne   Associate   Professor in Georgetown University’’s Pharmacology and Physiology   department. ’ ’   For a time, Mylan    required schools participating in the program to commit to order   only   EpiPens for 12 months, shutting out generic   competitors, and raising antitrust concerns. In a statement,   Mylan tells Business Insider there was ”a limited purchase   restriction, but such restriction no longer remains.”  ’ ’   Nevertheless, the EpiPen4Schools program could be a big     for Mylan, as it faces a potential loss of   market share to generic competitors.  ’ ”     of Georgetown likens the school donation program to   free samples at a doctor’s office. It introduces customers to the   brand.  ” ”   The drug inside the EpiPens, epinephrine, is old, and long    . The product’s value comes from the delivery device.   It’s easier to use than competitors. ” ’   And the company has achieved a branding coup: like Kleenex and   Xerox, the brand EpiPen has become synonymous with epinephrine   delivery.  ’ ’  ’ ’   In fact, Mylan has been so effective at branding that when   President Obama signed a bill in 2013 incentivizing schools to   stock epinephrine, it was called the  Mylan lobbied heavily for that bill. ’ ’   Why? It helps makes EpiPens, and the brand name, ubiquitous. Even   if the product is donated, students will grow up with the EpiPen   name and device. The few competitors, such as  barely have a   chance.  ’ ’   In a sense, EpiPens4Schools can be seen as a form of advertising.     calls this kind of marketing, ”advertising as   education.” ’ ’   The Greenville County Schools in South Carolina operates 91   schools, serving 76, 000 students.  ’ ”   Each year, it orders 182   which Mylan provides free.   The district says Mylan has provided the packs, but has indicated   that only the district’s current contract is free of   charge.  ” ’   It has to place a new order in October, and is waiting to learn   whether it will have to pay for the upcoming October   shipment.  ’ ”   Elizabeth Brotherton, a spokesperson for the district, tells   Business Insider that if it had to pay full price at roughly   $600 for each pack, it could cost the district $100, 000 annually,   though it’s likely to at least receive the product at a discount.     ” ’   Companies have long donated both cash and goods, but     donations  —   such as EpiPens4Schools  —   have increased since the   Great Recession.  ’ ”   These donations can boost firms’ reputations for social   responsibility, and do some real good for communities.  ” ’   ”Historically, they’’d write a check and walk away from donations,   or leave it to the charities,” Alex Parkinson, senior   researcher and associate director at The Conference Board, told   Business Insider. ”Now they’’re becoming far more strategic with   their donations.”  ’ ’   A  from the Committee Encouraging Corporate Philanthropy   and The Conference Board shows   giving increasing much   faster than other forms from 2010 to 2013.    ’ ’   In 2013, 90% of giving by pharmaceutical companies was     the report said. Of that, nearly 100% was product   donations.  ’ ’  ’ ”   Of course, EpiPens4Schools predates the recent controversy over   Mylan’s price increases.  ” ’   The criticism comes after  and  became notorious for their pricing   practices.  ’ ”   Bill George said Mylan is in a different category. Yes, it   does all it can to minimize its taxes and maximize its profits,   but he said it’s trying to hold onto the high prices as long as   it can before generics steal market share.  ” ”   What Mylan didn’t anticipate is becoming the new target of public   scorn for pharmaceutical companies.  ” ’  ’