’  ’ ’   Trouble is brewing in the Great White North. ’ ’ says that low oil prices have   hurt  and that the     market is near the peak of a massive bubble. ’ ’   Dillian notes . He also says   the structure of the Canadian mortgage market means that when the   bubble bursts, it will look quite different from the sharp and   sudden 2008 crisis in the US. ’ ”   The Canadian dollar is facing major headwinds. Dillian notes it’s   likely that the US Fed will raise interest rates while the Bank   of Canada will cut rates (if they move at all). This dynamic will   put more pressure on the already weak Canadian dollar. ” ’   High and rapidly growing consumer debt in Canada is also a   concern. And, if economic news continues to be poor  —  like the   employment numbers that came out the first week of August  —   look   out below. ’ ’   Dillian thinks the Canadian dollar could move to 1. 60 to 1. 70 to   the US dollar (currently trading at about 1. 30). He believes that   shorting the Canadian dollar is ”one of the best macro   opportunities over the next couple of years.” ’ ”   Unlike the US market, the mortgage market in Canada is not   securitized. This means the housing crisis in Canada won’t be   quick the way it was in the US (  to  ). ” ’   Dillian says a long,   ”death by a thousand cuts”   scenario is in the cards for the Canadian housing market. And,   this economic pain will probably last years. ’ ’   He also notes that nearly all mortgages in Canada are ”recourse   mortgages” (except in Alberta). This means    homeowners   are not as likely to walk away as they were in the US housing   crisis. ’ ”   Dillian states that more   cuts by the Bank of Canada   could be in the cards. With the prime rate in Canada at 0. 5%   right now, it’s not far to zero. In fact, he wouldn’t be   surprised to see negative rates by the second half of 2017. ” ’   Dillian had a few investment tips on how to prepare your   portfolio for the coming crisis. ’ ’   First, he suggests selling any   assets in Canada you   have, including your home. You should be able to buy that same   property back cheaper in three to five years. ’ ’   Second, Dillian says that Canadians (or those invested in Canada)   can mitigate risk with FX or   trades, short stocks,   or the like. ’ ’   He stressed that a short against the Canadian dollar, though it’’s   an obvious and increasingly ”crowded” trade, is as close as you   can get to a sure thing. ’ ”   Watch the full Mauldin Economics’ video interview (9:13) below   where Jared Dillian breaks down the problems with the Canadian   economy and shows how you can profit from the     meltdown in Canada. ” ’     ’ ’     ’ ’ Subscribe to Mauldin Economics ’ ”   Our  will help you understand   what’s happening in the world’s economy so you can make informed   investment choices based on clear and valuable observations. ”