’  ’ ’   An essential drug that has been on the market for decades still   has a sticker price out of range for some patients who need it. ’ ’   Insulin, a lifesaving treatment for diabetes, was first   patented in 1923. Unlike many common, even newer medicines, a   generic option does not exist. At the same time, the   cost of insulin has more than tripled. ’ ’   According to a 2016  in 2002,   the cost per patient per year was $231. In 2013, it was   closer to $736. ’ ’   Today, almost . Of those,    take insulin to manage the chronic disease. (The rest    or no medication at all.) ’ ”   The reasons these Americans don’t have a cheaper option for   insulin by now isn’t simple. It has a lot to do with biology   and regulations. Those issues are compounded   by historical and economic factors, a 2015 paper in the    reported. ” ’   Typically, new prescription drugs are available only from the   company that developed and patented them for the first few years   after gaining . The   drug is allowed to monopolize   the field so drug companies have incentive to invest heavily in   research and come up with new medicines.   ’ ’   After a few years, however, other companies are allowed to   start making  of the drug  —   cheaper, “ ”   options that are otherwise exactly the same as the original.   Because there’s no longer a monopoly and generic manufacturers   are only trying to turn a profit  —   not recoup high research and   development costs  —   generics can be much less expensive and thus   more accessible treatment options for the general public.  ’ ”   But insulin didn’t follow that trajectory. ” ” is a hormone made by the pancreas that makes it   possible for the body to absorb and process sugar from food.   Researchers first figured out how to manufacture it   in  back in the 1920s so that it could be injected   into people who weren’t making enough. Next, human   insulin was produced using recombinant DNA technology that made   bacteria into mini insulin factories, so people could take human   insulin instead of animal forms. The most recent innovations are   insulin analogues, slight variations on human insulin to make the   injected treatment act more like the insulin naturally produced   and regulated by the body. ” ”   But because it’s made of living cells, it’s what doctors   call a biologic product, and it’s more complicated and difficult   to manufacture than the medicines most often produced   generically. ” ’   So a ”generic” version of insulin would be something   called a . Unlike   generics for   drugs (think antibiotics or     pills) that can be interchangeable with branded   versions, the copycats of biologic medications, which are   produced using living cells, have a few more   caveats because the drugs might have different reactions in   your body. ’ ’   Getting a biosimilar insulin approved is more difficult than   getting a generic of a simpler drug approved, study coauthor   Kevin Riggs explained to Business Insider in 2015. ’ ”   ”Scientifically it’s harder to point to generic copy of insulin   and say this is the same,” Riggs said. ” ”   But companies have done it. There are  that have gotten approved by the   FDA, and CVS Health said in August that it    a drug that’s considered a biosimilar to the insulin Lantus in   Europe and  starting in 2017. ” ’  ’ ”   The NEJM    detailed years of “incremental innovation” of insulin  —     substantial tweaks to the product by various companies that truly   improved it, but kept the latest and greatest version under   patent protection until 2014. This happens with a lot of drugs,   and it’s . ” ’   ”The real question is, do those improvements do what they   actually offer? Are they really innovative?” Ameet   Sarpatwari, an epidemiologist at Brigham and Women’’s   Hospital told Business Insider . ’ ’   With each subsequent innovation, older but still effective   versions of insulin that could have been produced and sold   more cheaply fell out of use. ’ ’   That’s not to say newer forms of insulin don’t have benefits to   offset their heftier price tag. ’ ’   A review published in 2008 in the  showed insulin analogues   were more   than other treatment options in the long   run. They worked a bit better than unmodified human insulin, and   were less unpleasant for patients to use. Though prescriptions   for insulin analogues were more expensive than unmodified human   insulin, the review concluded they reduced later costs of   patients being hospitalized with complications from diabetes that   wasn’t well managed. ’ ’   But individual patients and their particular situations can get   lost in large studies that look at      . For patients without health insurance,   insulin is . Earlier iterations of insulin would be good   choices for a lot of individuals if they were available more   cheaply,  authors argued. ’ ’   “What would have been better is if as newer versions came on   market the older version became generic and gave people more   choice,” Riggs said in an interview with Business Insider. ’ ’   Now that patents on the latest insulin products are expiring and   a regulatory approval pathway exists, other options for   insulin are at the US’’s doorstep. The one CVS Health opted to   cover in 2017, Basaglar (though technically considered a   ”,” not a biosimilar) is set to launch in the US   in . ’ ”   The discount the drug brings won’t be as drastic as a generic   coming to market. When it comes to biosimilars overall, it   .   But it still could make a difference. ” ’   ”Insulin is a   medication,” Dr. William   Herman, professor of medicine and epidemiology at the   University of Michigan School of Public Health . ”There are people with type 1 diabetes   who will die without insulin. And while there have been   incremental benefits in insulin products, prices have been   rising. So there are people who can’t afford them. It’s a real   problem.” ’ ’ Ellie Kincaid contributed to an  of this post.  ’