’  ’ ’  Certified financial planner    answers:  ’ ’ How much should I keep in my checking and savings accounts?   And where should I keep my emergency fund? ’ ”   It’s important to have cash available for both regular and   unexpected expenses. ” ”   For obvious reasons, your checking and savings accounts should   have enough money in them to cover these costs  —   but you don’t   want all of your assets in cash, either. ” ”   Checking and savings accounts don’t earn much interest, so there   are better places to park your money if you don’t need it   immediately. ” ’’ ”   A good rule of thumb is to keep at least one month of net pay in   your checking at all times. Look for a checking account with no   monthly fee and no minimum balance. Even better, find an account   that reimburses ATM fees from other banks. One of my favorites is    because   they’ll reimburse you for ATM fees worldwide. ” ”   Some checking accounts pay interest, which is great if you tend   to keep a high balance in your checking account. However, if   you’re not earning much interest, I generally recommend that as   long as you have enough to cover a month’s worth of bills, you   move the rest to a   savings or money market account so   you can earn around 1% on your money. ” ”   Avoid overdrawing on your checking account! You’ll get slapped   with a fee for that, too. I suggest having overdraft protection   just in case you accidentally overdraw, but sometimes you can get   hit with a fee (usually smaller) for using your overdraft   protection, so know the details about how it works before you   need to use it. ” ”   A savings account offers you liquidity, so you can easily access   your money when you need it, but generally earns you more   interest than having your cash sit in your checking account. Look   for a   savings or money market account with the highest   interest rate you can find. Online banks often offer the best   rates. I’m a fan of  which offers great rates and has a   really    website. You can compare rates from different   banks on . ” ” are essential, too. You need   to be prepared for things like car or home repairs, medical   bills, or losing your job.  don’t have the   savings to cover a $400 emergency! Yikes! That’s scary. Don’t let   that be you. ” ’   I recommend building up   months of your   pay in   emergency savings. You should have at least one month of your net   pay in savings before aggressively paying down debt. After your   high interest debt is paid off, keep building your emergency   savings until you hit   months of net pay. ’ ”   Another benefit to keeping your checking and savings accounts at   separate banks is that it adds some friction between these   accounts. If you don’t see your savings account every time you   log in to your checking, then you’re much less likely to spend   it. ” ”   I’m also an advocate of setting up different savings accounts for   each goal. Almost all my clients have an emergency savings and a   travel savings account  —   that way, they don’t rob from their   emergency fund to go on a vacation. They save for both of these   goals every month and then there isn’t guilt when they withdraw   money from the travel savings to take their family vacation. ” ’   An online bank like Ally is a great place to set up multiple   accounts because there is no minimum balance required and it only   takes a few days to transfer the money to your checking account   if you need to access it. ’ ’  This post is part of  that answers all of your questions   related to personal finance. Have your own question? Email yourmoney[at]businessinsider[dot]com.  ’ ’ Sophia Bera, CFP® is the Founder of  and has been quoted in The New York Times, Forbes,   Business Insider, AOL, The Wall Street Journal, and Money   Magazine. She  travels, and loves   helping millennials manage their money more effectively. Curious?   Sign up for the free . ’