’  ’ ”   Pokémon Go is a smash hit on Android and iPhone, but there’s no   version at all for Microsoft’s struggling Windows 10 Mobile,   leaving some   players in the cold. ” ”   And given that Windows 10 Mobile’s market share is  there’s not a lot   of incentive for game developer Niantic to ever make one.  ” ’   Fortunately for those few, proud Windows 10 Mobile phone owners,   there is an option: ”,” a   totally unsanctioned and unauthorized effort to bring   the Pokémon Go phenomenon to Windows 10, spearheaded by a   developer named Stefano Tenuta.  ’ ’   On the project’’s  Tenuta gives three main reasons for starting the     project: First, ”because learning new things is always   cool.” Second, ”because it could be done.” But third, and best of   all: ”Because Microsoft rejected my job application saying that I   wasn’’t showing enough ’’passion’’ and this proves them wrong :)” ’ ’   ”B ’ ’  ’ ’   The ”UWP” part of the name refers to ”,” Microsoft’’s new standard for apps that can   run on desktops, tablets, and mobile phones alike. That means   that if you really wanted to, you could use   to   play  ’ ”   Essentially,   is a   version of the   familiar Pokémon Go app rebuilt from the ground up for Windows   10, one feature at a time. A version of the game that went live   on Friday added the Pokédex and the ability to see the items   you’re carrying. It’s not perfect, but it works. ” ’   It connects to the main  Just be   advised before we go any further that Niantic has been cracking   down on the use of unauthorized  ’ ”   Here’s a look at the first version of the game in action. It’s   apparently come a little ways since this video was uploaded: ” ’ ’ ’   Tenuta says that he got the inspiration from a   petition   going around the internet begging Niantic to   bring  ’ ’  ’ ’   The first, extremely basic version of   dropped at the   end of July. On the project’’s GitHub page, Tenuta says that   he was soon bombarded with feature requests, questions, and bug   reports, so much so that he ended up spending ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Okay, I’ll be honest with you: I don’t have a Windows 10 Mobile   phone handy, so I tried installing it on a Surface Book. ” ”   Even knowing it’s more for phones than laptops, the process of   getting   running was a huge pain, requiring messing   with a lot of settings related to installing unofficial   apps. Even once I got it running, it was glitchy and unreliable.   But, hey, for a free,   project, it ain’t   bad.  ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’