’  ’ ’   The death of the ISIS leader who oversaw external attacks could   have significant implications for the group as it pivots from   seizing territory in the Middle East to launching attacks on   Western targets. ’ ”   The terrorist group  that its spokesman, Abu Muhammad   had   been killed near Aleppo, Syria. His apparent loss marks a major   blow to a group that’s already struggling for   survival. ” ’   ”This really sends the message out that ISIS is truly on the   decline because he was such a figurehead,” Clint Watts, a fellow   at the Foreign Policy Research Institute and former US Army   officer and FBI Joint Terrorism Task Force special agent, told   Business Insider. ”[A]dnani was such a key person for building   support, propaganda, and online recruitment. He was a key   figure.” ’ ”   Adnani’s death could hurt the group’s attack capability in the   long term, Watts said. And it’s unclear whether ISIS has a   successor in line to take over Adnani’s role in the group. ” ”   Colin P. Clarke, a terrorism expert and political scientist at   the RAND Corp. speculated that it won’t be easy finding a   replacement for Adnani. ” ’’ ’   ”Replacing Adnani will be hard,” Clarke .   ”He had   expertise which isn’’t easily replicated   but learned through tacit knowledge transfer.” ’ ’   Clarke called Adnani’’s death ”a severe blow to the group’’s     network.” ’ ’   Bridget Moreng, an analyst who studies ISIS’’s global   strategy,    that in addition to leading external operations, Adnani was   thought to be the next in line to lead ISIS in the event of   ”caliph” Abu Bakr  ’’s death. ’ ”   And because it’s not clear who might be taking over Adnani’s job,   there could be some infighting that would further fracture the   group. ” ’   ”Key question is how IS will adjust to Adnani’’s death: smooth   succession or power   for position,” Moreng   .   ”The latter is likely.” ’ ’   But terrorist groups like ISIS are generally equipped to survive   the deaths of top leaders. Al Qaeda, for instance, is still a   major player in the world of terrorism despite the death of its   founder, Osama bin Laden. ’ ’   ”These leadership strikes, they’’re important,” Thomas Joscelyn, a   senior fellow at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies and an   expert on terrorist groups, told Business Insider. ”Killing top   leaders definitely weakens the organization. But a lot of the   time, they have people to replace them that nobody knew about.” ’ ’   Al Qaeda ”has replaced its external operations chief over and   over again,” Joscelyn said. ’ ’   ”The loss of leadership definitely weakens organizations, and it   may lead to a further degradation of ISIS’’s capabilities, but   we’’ve seen them adapt and survive in the past,” he said.   ”These organizations aren’’t built around one or two guys. They   have a deep bench of leadership.” ’ ’   ISIS also has plenty of   operatives responsible for   coordinating external attacks. ’ ’   ”A lot of times the middle managers are the ones who make things   happen,” Joscelyn said. They ”have people who have detailed local   knowledge who they rely on for tactical planning in operations in   the West.” ’ ’   Still, ISIS has recruited its base of support around its message   of ”remaining and expanding,” not simply surviving. And Adnani’’s   death could hurt morale within the group as it continues to lose   territory in Iraq and Syria. ISIS might try to execute more plots   against the West to head off any drop in morale or perception   that the group is being defeated. ’ ’   ”What you may see is an actual increase in attacks,” Watts said.   ”Whoever [Adnani’’s] successor is may want to be more aggressive.   If there’’s any in the pipeline, they might be accelerated by   Adnani’’s death.” ’ ”   Past the short term, however, Adnani’s death might not inspire   many future attacks. Unlike Anwar   the notorious   preacher and Al Qaeda recruiter, Adnani didn’t speak English or   build up a library of speeches online that supporters  —   or   curious individuals  —   could access. ”