’  ’ ’   Donald Trump and Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto on   Wednesday hosted a tense press conference that acknowledged   clear differences between the two leaders over issues like   immigration, trade, and a proposed physical border wall. ’ ’   During the conference, Trump said that a private   conversation between the two leaders on Wednesday was   productive, and he called Peña Nieto a ”friend.” ’ ”   But he noted that differences remain between the two countries   over how to manage trade relationships between them, and who   would fund Trump’s proposed border wall between the US and   Mexico. ” ’   ”I was straightforward in presenting my ideas on the effects of   trade and immigration on the United States,” Trump said,   summarizing the private meeting. ’ ’   Though the Republican presidential candidate said that they   discussed the wall, the two leaders ” ’ ’ ’ ”Donald Trump: We didn’t discuss who pays for the wall  ” ’  ’ ’   ”No one wins in either country when human smugglers and drug   traffickers prey on people, when cartels commit acts of   violence,” Trump said. ”I shared my strong view that [the North   American Free Trade Agreement] has been a far greater   benefit to Mexico than it has to the United States, and it   has to be improved so that workers in the United States can   benefit.” ’ ’the   importance of the historic alliance, but did not hesitate to   acknowledge the areas where the two leaders differ. ’ ”   The president argued that, contrary to Trump’s assertion, NAFTA   was a net gain for both countries. He also pointed out that   the number of emigrants from Mexico to the US peaked 10 years   ago, and was negative in net terms this year. Trump has   repeatedly claimed that migrants are coming across the   border in unmanageable numbers. ” ’   ”Any close relationship needs to be visited and renewed from time   to time and see what has worked and what hasn’’t,” Peña Nieto   said. ”E ’ ’   Trump launched his campaign last year with  that   many Latinos in the US and Mexico found offensive, saying that   Mexico was ”” into the US. ’ ’   Trump repeatedly insisted that the US had ”become a dumping   ground” for Mexico, and threatened a trade war with the country   if the two nations could not renegotiate trade agreements like   NAFTA. ’ ’   On Wednesday, the Republican presidential candidate sparred on   Twitter with former Mexican President Vicente Fox, who said   that Trump was ”not welcome in Mexico” because of his threat to   make Mexico pay for a wall along the southern US border and   deport 10 million immigrants living in the US without permission. ’