’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Early this year,    founders  and Kade Hendershot were talking employee   benefits. ’ ’   ”Even through we’’re growing and the company is great, we don’’t   have money to just shower on perks,” CEO Doyle told Business   Insider of the   Utah media startup. ’ ’   ”Pretty much everyone in the world loves travel, and we have a   handful of clients in the industry and know the space. We started   thinking and talking: Some startups do paid vacations, so why not   make it official?” ’ ”   The solution the business partners landed on was a   paid   sabbatical, offered to employees after four years of employment,   then every three years after that. Wallaroo, which has   professional connections and properties in the travel space,   would encourage employees to spend at least half of that time   traveling out of state, or even out of country, and would pay for   that trip. Since it’s a new program, the company hasn’t yet   established a price cap, but will encourage employees to take   advantage of travel services that have a relationship with   Wallaroo and might be willing to subsidize the trip in exchange   for company services. ” ’  ’ ”   It’s not just corporate giants getting on board. New York City   startup  to celebrate   three years with the company. Colorado’s  (No. 13 on the ) offers   sabbaticals for every ten   years of employment, and  offers six to eight weeks after seven years with the   company.  ” ’   Wallaroo is no stranger to flexible work arrangements: Last year,   it transitioned to   work weeks, where each employee works   four   days, then four flexible hours on their own, for a   total of 40 hours of work punctuated by   weekends. ’ ’  ’ ”   Because of the company’s connections in the travel industry, its   chief concern about mandatory sabbaticals wasn’t the cost.   Rather, Doyle said, it was how it would impact the team at large   when someone left for 30 days. ” ’   ”M ’ ’   Doyle is hoping that the sabbaticals have just as much positive   impact for the employees who remain at the office as for their   colleagues who take some time off. ” ’ ”   Wallaroo was founded in 2012, so the first employee will take   their sabbatical before the end of this year. Currently, they’re   planning on a   Caribbean cruise, another week on a     island, then two weeks to decompress at home. ”