’  ’ ”   Apple CEO Tim Cook on Thursday continued to rail against the   European Commission for Competition’s  that the company got a special deal from Ireland to   avoid taxes, which is against EU rules. ” ”   The commission is ordering Apple to pay $14. 5 billion in back   taxes. Apple and Ireland strongly disagree with the ruling and   plan to appeal. In an    with RTE, Ireland’s public broadcaster, Cook called it   an  ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   That means Apple may bring some of the billions it earned selling   Macs and iPhones in countries like Germany and Ireland back to   the US, where it would be subject to US taxes. ’ ”   Apple has a whopping cash pile of roughly $230 billion, but   most is kept overseas to avoid paying US corporate taxes. Only   about $16 billion of Apple’s money is held in the US. ” ”   Cook didn’t say how much it might return to   Apple’s home country, but he’s been a vocal critic   of US tax policy. ” ’   The company was among those that joined a  to push for a   tax ”holiday” to   bring some of that money home at a lower tax rate. ’ ’   It was 2004. Apple was riding high on iPods  —   not iPhones  —   and   Congress passed the American Jobs Creation .   It had many provisions, but one of them was a   tax   break for companies that keep a lot of their foreign profits   overseas. ’ ’   Instead of paying the normal US corporate tax rate, that year   they could pay just 5. 25%. ’ ’   And they did. In droves. ’ ’   According to a  by Chuck Marr and   Huang at the Center on   Budget and Policy Priorities: ’ ’  ’ ’   Congress hoped that the tax holiday would bring in lots of   revenue that could be used to create jobs, repair roads, and   generally improve the US economy. ’ ”   Instead, despite Congress’ efforts to prohibit it, the   companies spent a lot of their savings on dividends and . And many of the companies that benefited the   most actually cut thousands of jobs shortly after. ” ’   Pfizer, for instance, cut 10, 000 jobs that same year, according   to the paper. Ford repatriated $850 million and then laid off   10, 000 workers in the US. ’ ’   ”Repatriations did not lead to an increase in domestic   investment, employment or R&D —  even for the firms that lobbied   for the tax holiday stating these intentions and for firms that   appeared to be financially constrained,” wrote the authors of   another  on the   effects of the tax holiday. ’ ’   That paper from the National Bureau of Economic Research,   ”Watch What I Do, Not What I Say,” says that for every dollar   companies brought back to the US, there was a $1 increase in   shareholder payouts. ’ ’   ”For several years, it was considered to be a disaster,” Marr   told Business Insider. ’ ’   His own  suggests that tax holidays have little economic   benefit. And some   think tanks, like The Heritage   Foundation,  ’ ’  ’ ’   Marr said that most of the companies that benefit from tax   holidays are big multinationals with lots of ”intangible profits”    —   think   tech and pharmaceutical companies. ’ ”   Most still have plenty of cash in the US, despite keeping foreign   earnings on other continents. That means they’re not cash   constrained and don’t necessarily need to bring money back to the   States to invest in research or workers. In fact, many companies   repatriate money anyway at the higher rate, such as when they   shut down an international division. ” ’   ”If you give a holiday, you’’re giving it to companies that would   [have] done it anyway,” Marr said. ’ ”   And there’s another hazard. By making these occasional tax   holidays, rather than a permanent change to corporate tax policy,   companies can lobby Congress to give them a temporary break,   bring some money back to the US, and then go back to their old   ways of keeping money overseas until the next holiday comes   around. ” ”   And companies like Apple are hoping that they’ll get some kind of   corporate tax cut soon. ”