’  ’ ’   In an industry that preaches transparency and trust in data,   venture capital is one part of tech that prefers to keep its   books closed and data out of the public eye. ’ ”   That’s why a report like the one from  is startling. ” ’   According to The Journal, famed venture capital firm Andreessen   Horowitz is lagging behind its rivals Sequoia and Benchmark in   returns on its investments. ’ ’   ”Since its founding through last year, Andreessen Horowitz had   returned a total of $1. 2 billion in cash to investors, net of   fees. Sequoia returned more money on WhatsApp alone,” Winkler   . ’ ’   That sounds pretty damning. ’ ’’ ”   But it’s still way too early to tell whether Andreessen Horowitz   has lived up to its hype. Money isn’t money until you can buy a   beer with it (or return it to your investors) and there’s a long   runway before Andreessen Horowitz’s funds can be called a success   or failure. ” ’   Valley insiders have been curious about how the firm has been   doing since launching its first fund in 2009. ’ ’   Despite being a relative newcomer to the VC scene, Andreessen   Horowitz quickly developed a reputation for being a     investor and one that can drive up valuations in a deal. Its   cofounder, Marc Andreessen, was deemed ”” by The New Yorker  —   ”an evangelist for the   church of technology.” ’ ”   But because VC firms generally don’t disclose performance   information to outsiders, it’s been hard to judge whether   Andreessen Horowitz deserves to be in the same category as famous   VCs like Sequoia, which was an early investor in Apple and   Google. ” ’   The data published by The Journal suggests that Andreessen is   trailing its rivals. ’ ”   Andreessen Horowitz’s first fund is only at 2. 6x, below the 3x   that    venture capital firm should   return. ” ”   Some of Sequoia’s funds are up 8x, Benchmark’s 2011 fund is up   11x, and Peter Thiel’s Founders Fund has multiplied investor   money by 7x, according to The Journal’s numbers. ” ’   The only trouble: Most of these gains are still on paper. Most of   the companies in these portfolios have not had a liquidity event,   so any gains or losses are not yet realized. ’ ’   For example, Benchmark’’s 2011 fund has some ”blockbuster   investments” in Uber and Snapchat. But neither of those companies   has gone public or sold. ’ ”   Even Benchmark’s Bill Gurley acknowledges how hard it will be to   turn those paper values into real cash. ” ’   ”The past few years has been remarkably successful for VCs due to   the rise of the unicorn ecosystem. That said, these record   returns are ’’on paper. ’’ In other words, the actual cash returns   haven’’t actually been delivered to the LPs (our customers),”   Gurley said Wednesday during a Q&A session on Quora. ”Making   sure that the results are real and not imaginary is the #1   challenge of our time.” ’ ”   Andreessen Horowitz may be lacking the paper value gains in this   moment, but it still has years for the funds to come to maturity   (typically a decadelong process). That’s plenty of time for some   of its companies like Pinterest, Airbnb, or Tanium to mature and   go public at an even larger multiple. ” ”   It’s an equally large window for some of its rivals to see the   wheels come off on their most valued companies. ”