’  ’ ’   The headline averages of the major stock indexes appear to be   riding high, sitting near   records set just a few weeks   ago. ’ ’   A lot of commentary, however, seems to be weighted to the   downside. From  to  commentators seem to be waiting for a shoe   to drop and the market to crash. ’ ’   Even retail investors, as  are more bearish than   bullish. In fact, bullish sentiment has been below its     average for 43 straight weeks. ’ ’   This downtrodden outlook is unwarranted, according to Scott   Colyer, the CEO and chief investment officer at Advisors Asset   Management. ’ ’   ”I think there is a lot of pessimism out there,” Colyer told   Business Insider. ”There are a lot of skeptics out there trying   to figure out why stocks have gotten to this level and when it’’s   going to fall. People are way too pessimistic.” ’ ’’ ’   Colyer, whose firm has around $16. 5 billion in assets under   management, noted that this phenomenon is not necessarily new   either. ’ ’   ”The people that said ’’sell in May’’ were wrong, the people that   said August is one of the worst months for stocks were wrong,”   Colyer said. ”Eventually, you have to ignore it.” ’ ’   In order to have a serious drop, according to Colyer, you have to   either have a deterioration in the outlook for earnings,   weakening in the economic picture, or an outside shock. While the   last of those three is tough to predict, stronger earnings data   from the second quarter is an encouraging sign. ’ ’   ”You had projections that [S&P 500 aggregate] earnings were   going to be down 7% or so for the second quarter,” Colyer said.   ”They were down just 2% which is much better than last quarter,   and we expect that they will go positive next quarter.” ’ ”   Additionally, the sustained good (but maybe not great) economic   data doesn’t point to a serious downturn. This, unfortunately,   does not stop people from coming in and calling for a stock   market drop. ” ’   ”When you reach new highs, people’’s instinct is to call a top,”   Colyer said. ”They say, ’’I’’m going to find a reason that will   cause me to leave the game. ’’” ’ ’   Colyer said many investors are trying to ”time the market,” which   usually means figuring out when the top is in. The issue is that   timing the market doesn’’t usually work and can lead to investors   missing some of the best days. ’ ”   So Colyer’s basic advice to investors: Relax, and think long   term. ”