’  ’ ’   Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump has run an unusually   cheap campaign in part by not paying at least 10 top   staffers, consultants and advisers, some of whom are no   longer with the campaign, according to a review   of federal campaign finance filings. ’ ’   Those who have so far not been paid, the filings show, include   recently departed campaign manager Paul Manafort, California   state director Tim Clark, communications director Michael Caputo   and a pair of senior aides who left the campaign in June to   immediately go to work for a Trump Super PAC.  ’ ”   The New York real estate magnate and his allies have touted his   campaign’s frugality, saying it is evidence of his management   skills. His campaign’s spending has totaled $89. 5 million so far,   about a third of what Democratic rival Hillary Clinton’s campaign   has spent. ” ’   But not compensating top people in a presidential campaign is a   departure from campaign finance norms. Many of the positions   involved might typically come with   annual paychecks in   other campaigns. ’ ’   ”It’’s unprecedented for a presidential campaign to rely so   heavily on volunteers for top management positions,” said Paul   Ryan, an election lawyer with the campaign finance reform   advocacy group Campaign Legal Center. ’ ’’ ’   The Trump campaign said the Reuters’’ reporting was ”sloppy at   best” but declined to elaborate. ’ ’   One of the 10 who were unpaid, Michael Caputo, told a Buffalo   radio station in June after he resigned from the campaign, that   he was not volunteering. Rather, he said he just had not gotten   paid. Caputo confirmed to Reuters on Thursday that the Trump   campaign has still not paid his invoices.  ’ ’   In another instance, two   former Trump campaign   advisers, former Chris Christie campaign manager Ken McKay and   Manafort lobbying associate Laurance Gay, departed the Trump   campaign in June and went to work for the   Super PAC,   Rebuilding America Now. In June, the Super PAC paid each of them   $60, 000, the filings show.  ’ ’   Federal campaign law stipulates that people working for   campaigns, who may possess strategic knowledge of a campaign or   work as a campaign’s agents, must wait for 120 days before going   to work for a Super PAC, a political spending group that can   accept unlimited sums of money from wealthy donors so long as it   does not coordinate with a campaign.  ’ ’   Through a spokesperson, McKay and Gay said they were volunteering   for Trump and did not possess strategic information so the rule   did not apply to them.  ’ ”   Another example of free labor is Rick Gates, who was Manafort’s   deputy. According to two former   Trump staffers, Gates   essentially functioned as the Trump campaign manager for more   than two months, all while not collecting a paycheck.  ” ’   By contrast, Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton’s campaign   manager Robby Mook earned roughly $10, 000 in July, the same   amount as President Barack Obama’s campaign manager Jim Messina   did in 2012. That same year, Republican nominee Mitt Romney’s   campaign manager, Matt Rhoades, was making nearly $7, 000    . ’ ’   Others who, according to the FEC filings, have not been paid   include finance chairman Steven Mnuchin, national political   director Rick Wiley and senior adviser Barry Bennett, who were   not available for comment. Nor were Manafort, Gates and Clark. ’ ”   Many campaigns have volunteers who work as   ground   troops, knocking on voters’ doors and passing out campaign   buttons. There are instances in other campaigns of senior staff   opting not to draw a paycheck. For example, John Podesta, a   longtime adviser to Clinton who is now her campaign chairman,   considers his role honorary and does not draw a salary. ” ’   What is unusual, however, is for a campaign to have such a large   group of people in top positions who are unpaid.  ’ ’   After Manafort resigned in August, Trump promoted his senior   adviser and top pollster, Kellyanne Conway, to become his new   campaign manager.  ’ ’   Before then, Conway ran a Super PAC affiliated with Texas Senator   and Republican presidential candidate Ted Cruz. For work from   June 2015 to June 2016, the Super PAC paid the firm she owns more   than $700, 000. ’ ’   She officially joined the Trump campaign July 1. But so far,   according to campaign finance reports that detail spending   through July 31, Conway has not been paid by the Trump campaign. ’ ’   She did not respond to a request for comment.  ’ ’   (Editing by Caren Bohan and Cynthia Osterman) ’