’  ’ ’   DETROIT (Reuters)   Republican presidential candidate   Donaldstepped up his bid to win   over minority voters by addressing a largely black church in   Detroit on Saturday and calling for a new civil rights agenda to   support  . ’ ’   As scores of protesters outside chanted ”No justice, no   peace,”said he wanted to make   Detroit   a predominantly   city which recently   emerged from bankruptcy   the economic envy of the world by   bringing back companies from abroad. ’ ’separately met with about 100 community   and church leaders, his campaign said, in his latest push to peel   away minority voters from Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton. ’ ’   His outreach to minorities over recent weeks comes as he seeks to   improve his chances in the Nov. 8 election and shake off months   of offending the sensibilities of black and Hispanic voters with   his hard line on immigration and   rhetoric.  ’ ’   ”I fully understand that the African American community is   suffering from discrimination and that there are many wrongs that   must still be made right,”said at   the church which was  . ”I want to make America   prosperous for everyone. I want to make this city the economic   envy of the world, and we can do that.” ’ ’   His address of over 10 minutes at the Great Faith Ministries   International church received moments of applause, including when   he said Christian faith is not the past, but the present and the   future. ’ ’  ’ ’   Accompanyingto the church was Ben   Carson, the former Republican presidential hopeful who grew up in   the city and whose childhood   neighborhoodvisited on Saturday. ’ ’has argued that his emphasis on job   creation would help minority communities in a way that Democrats   have failed to. But Clinton has   accusedof aligning himself with   racists.  ’ ’   Opinion polls showhas low support   among minorities. ’ ’   ”I believe we need a civil rights agenda for our time, one that   ensures the rights to a great education, so important, and the   right to live in a   job and one that you love to go to   every morning,”said. ’ ’   ”That can happen. We need to bring our companies back,” he added. ’ ’   Emma Lockridge, 63, said as she entered the church that she found   his comments about Mexicans and Muslims ”hateful.” ’ ’  ’ ’   ”That’’s my major reservation with   Mr. is how he’’s treated those   particular sets of people,” said Lockridge, who is retired and an   environmental activist.  ’ ”   But she said she also had concerns about Clinton’s support in the   1990s for crime legislation signed by her husband, former   President Bill Clinton, which many black Americans say   contributed to high incarceration rates in their communities. ” ’   Vicki Dobbins, an activist protesting outside, said she was   disappointed the church askedto   speak. ’ ’   ”I believe thatcoming to Detroit is   a joke, and I’’m ashamed of the pastor who invited him,” she said.   ”In my opinion, he stabbed everyone in the back.” ’ ’   (Additional reporting by Emily Flitter in New York and Tim   Branfalt in Detroit; Editing by Leslie Adler and W Simon) ’