’  ’ ’   Darren Tay, a    Singaporean lawyer, became the 2016   Toastmasters International world champion of public speaking in   August, surviving several rounds of a competition that lasted six   months and included more than 30, 000 competitors from  around the world. ’ ”   He’s been refining his public speaking skills since he was in   high school, and in 2009, he founded the Public Speaking Academy   in Singapore. ” ”   Over time, he’s seen recurring mistakes among novice speakers. He   told Business Insider there are two he sees most often. ” ’   ”I’’m not saying that the nonverbal communication aspect is not   important, it’’s just that they become obsessed with hand   gestures, or where they stand on a particular part of the stage,   or if they had the right hip rotation,” Tay said. ”But many times   they do it at the expense of content.” ’ ’   Tay believes that the speech should guide gestures, and not vice   versa. To help with this, he prepares for every speech with at   least a couple of minutes of  which entails closing his eyes and breathing   deeply and slowly, and ”” of stretching his arms wide and above his head,   mimicking expressions of triumph. These two exercises help him   link his mind with his body, he said. ’ ’’ ”   Tay also noted that it’s common for novice public speakers to    to their face, which suggests   nervousness, or too low, which is distracting. He said the ideal   gesture center is around the belly button, and that moving   outside of this could be used for dramatic effect. ” ’   ”Most public speakers who are starting out always think that it’’s   about nature and not nurture,” Tay said, explaining that it’’s   simply not true. ”I started off as a very diffident, very shy   individual, and it took me quite some time before I started to   build my strengths and my abilities to be a better public   speaker.” ’ ’   Sure, people have a tendency to be extroverted or introverted,   but the fact that a confident extrovert may be more willing to   get in front of an audience . ’ ’   Tay recommends finding a mentor whom you feel comfortable   rehearsing with and who will give you truly honest feedback while   still being supportive. Someone gives a great presentation when   they have spent hours practicing how to connect with an audience   on an intimate level, and that is a skill that can be tailored to   any personality. ’ ’    ’