’  ’ ’  ’ ’   while truck and SUV sales rose 2% according to the firm   Autodata. As a whole, though,   sales have been on   the decline for a while. ’ ’   As Business Insider’s Matt DeBord recently pointed out, the    which   means the price of new passenger cars is also falling.  ’ ’   Major automakers have taken note and are largely moving away from   sedans or coups and heavily investing in bringing more crossovers   and SUVs to market. The move makes sense, considering consumers   want these larger vehicles and because these larger cars are way   more profitable than smaller passenger cars. ’ ’   Now Tesla already offers its Model X SUV, but it’s a $100, 000   car, which is way out of reach for most people. But CEO Elon Musk   announced in July that Tesla has plans to bring an affordable   compact SUV, called the Model Y, to market, as well as pickup   truck in the future. ’ ’  ’ ’   The company, though, must first get the Model 3 out the door  —     and, well, that could take awhile. ’ ’   The   maker has about 370, 000 orders for the Model 3,   which is priced at $35, 000 before tax incentives, and aims to   begin production of the vehicles by the end of 2017. But   Musk has hinted that the bulk of Model 3 orders won’t be   delivered until 2018. What’s more, Tesla has not yet given a firm   timeline of when to expect the Model Y or a pickup truck. ’ ’   But one thing is for certain  —   by the time Tesla does roll out an   electric SUV or crossover, it will already have some intense   competition. ’ ’   General Motors is planning to roll out its  crossover by the end of   this year, which is priced at about $37, 500 before tax credits.   Audi and Hyundai are also both planning on rolling out an     SUV by 2018. ’ ’   Volvo aims to offer at least  one of   which is expected to be a crossover or SUV. Volkswagen is   planning to offer five electric vehicles by 2020 and more than   one of those is likely to be a crossover or SUV of some kind. And   Mercedes is expected to showcase an electric SUV at the Paris   Motor Show this October that is expected to go into production by   2019, according to a report from . ’ ’  ’