’  ’ ”   If you’re new to marijuana, shopping at a dispensary can be an   overwhelming experience. ” ”   Typically, a menu board lists a dozen or more varieties, called   strains, with names that sound like punch lines from a Seth Rogen   movie. From the subdued  to the   upbeat and euphoric  the names give almost no indication of the   drug’s effect or strength. ” ’   Knowing the difference between the two major species of   marijuana, sativa and indica, may help newbies pick a product   that best fits their medicinal needs. The characteristics of each   are, however, hugely speculative and based on     experiences. ’ ’   Sativa and indica strains . Sativa, with   its long, thin leaves, is believed to have grown in a hot,     geography. The short and   indica evolved   in drier conditions. ’ ’   Ask any ”budtender” or   dealer and they will tell you   the differences in how these two strains affect the body and mind   are easy to spot. ’ ”   Sativa strains produce a rush of energy that leaves people   feeling energized and uplifted, according to   site   . It’s a good pick if you’re heading to a Rihanna   concert or penning the great American novel, but not ideal for   toking before bed. ” ’   Indica strains, on the other hand, help you wind down into a   relaxed, sedated state. They’’re often believed to be   responsible for the ” ” phenomenon that lets stoners   binge television mindlessly. (Might I suggest Netflix’’s ”” for such activity?) ’ ’  ’ ’   These classifications make our lives easier as consumers.   Unfortunately, they may be more fiction than fact. ’ ’   Dr. Ethan Russo, a neurologist and president emeritus at the   International Cannabinoid Research Society,  the myths around sativa versus indica strains as   ”total nonsense.” ’ ’   ”We would all prefer simple nostrums to explain complex systems,   but this is futile and even potentially dangerous in the context   of a psychoactive drug such as cannabis,” Russo said in an   interview with the Cannabis and Cannabinoid Research journal   earlier this year. ’ ”   He, and  believe that marijuana’s terpenoids  —   a   large class of organic compounds produced by plants  —   are largely   responsible for the differences in observed effects. A strain’s   myrcene content is more likely what causes   while   limonene produces a heady high. ” ”   These compounds and more appear in varied concentrations in   sativa and indica, though they’re rarely reported. Smokers don’t   know what they’re getting, short of a   biochemical   analysis on the bud they’re buying (which some providers ). ” ”   It’s nearly impossible to make any definitive assumptions since   research has been limited for so long. The federal government   currently classifies marijuana in a category of drugs believed to   have no medicinal benefits, placing severe restrictions on   research, though those are loosening. In August, the Drug   Enforcement Administration (DEA) agreed to  it certifies to grow   marijuana for research. ” ”   There’s also something to be said for the placebo effect, science   writer Simon Oxenham . When we read   this strain will do that, our minds will the   suggestion into reality. ” ’   The mind works in mysterious ways, as does marijuana. ’