’  ’ ’   Few spend time analyzing the breakdown of a plane ticket. ’ ’   Our modus operandi is to compare ticket prices, usually through a   website like Expedia or Kayak, pick whichever deal we can manage   to glean, and jet away. ’ ’   But those willing to take a closer look will see that, for   international flights, there is a fee tacked on that inflates the   end cost by a few hundred dollars. Often labeled as a ”carrier   fee” or ”  fee,” there is no clarity as to what the   fees are for and how high they can be. ’ ’  ’ ’   Some have argued that these fees are a sly way for airlines to    despite the price of   oil dropping. ’ ’   In a 2012 Department of Transportation  airlines were told that the fuel   surcharge must ”reflect a reasonable estimate of the     fuel costs incurred by the carrier.” ’ ”   As such, fuel surcharges have pretty much disappeared from the   ticket breakdown, but that doesn’t mean they actually   went away. Many argue that the surcharge was wrapped into the   carrier fee, which is why the fee can be as high as $650 for a     flight, as is the case with Delta. ” ’   ”The reality is that enough carriers are maintaining the fuel   surcharges,” Greg Geronemus,   of   provider   smarTours, told Business Insider. ”It’’s their unspoken   understanding of, ’’let’’s enjoy this while it lasts and keep the   fuel surcharge high. ’’” ’ ”   Airlines aren’t jumping at the opportunity to clarify what these   carrier fees are for, either. ” ’   ”In terms of what it covers, it’’s a   fee. You’’re   allowed to use it to collect money for a lot of different   things,” Josh Freed, a spokesperson for American Airlines, told   Business Insider. ’ ’   Freed declined to comment on what in particular could fall into   that fee, only stating that ”almost every expense the airline has   can be covered by that fee.” A Delta spokesperson also declined   to comment on what the fees pay for, only adding, ”Delta only has   a fuel surcharge where it’’s required by the government.” ’ ’   The Department of Transportation deferred comment on carrier fees   to the Federal Aviation Administration. The FAA did not respond   to multiple requests for comment on whether regulatory oversight   existed dictating what carrier fees are used for and how high   they can be. ’ ’  ’ ’   So how does it affect your bottom line? That’’s also a bit   unclear. Delta writes on its website that ”    surcharges” can amount to as much as $650 for a     international flight. Freed of American Airlines said there’’s no   rule that dictates what the fee can amount to. ’ ’   Random ticket selections showed carrier fees tended to hover   around the $250 range. ’ ’   A   $1, 498 Delta ticket from New York to London listed a   $259   international surcharge. A randomly   selected,   $1, 977 American Airlines flight from New York   to London also imposed a $259   fee. ’ ”   That doesn’t mean you’re always shelling out an extra $200 for an   international ticket. A randomly selected United Airlines ticket   totaling $1, 498 for a   ticket from New York to London   didn’t list a carrier fee at all. ” ’   Geronemus also made a point of noting that Cathay Pacific, the   flag carrier for Hong Kong, eliminated its fuel surcharge through   the carrier fee. A randomly selected flight from New York to Hong   Kong amounted to roughly $544, and it explicitly lists that there   is no carrier fee. ’ ”   So it should it matter that carrier fees exist with no insight as   to what they are used for and how high they can be? Freed claims   it shouldn’t. ” ’   ”What goes into that [fee] for customers doesn’’t really matter   because the competition happens at the     level,”   Freed added. ”It’’s really a   for customers because   there’’s various competition on what a ticket costs to go   anywhere.” ’