’  ’ ’   When Morgan and Emily Paxhia lost their father to cancer in 1996,   the world was a different place. ’ ’   ”It was a rough    as with any cancer,” Emily told   Business Insider over the phone. Their father was taking a   ”litany of medications” simply to remain comfortable.  ’ ”   A hospice nurse quietly took Morgan and Emily’s mother aside   and told her that their father should try smoking pot to ease   some of his symptoms.  ” ”   The family discussed it, though their father ultimately decided   not to use marijuana due to the stigma  —   this was   upstate New York in the 1990’s. The nurse’s suggestion,   however, put the special qualities of the plant into both Emily   and Morgan’s minds.  ” ’   In fact, the experience ended up compelling them to   jump into the marijuana space both  and advocates. In 2013, the      team started  based in California, as one of the first legal     hedge funds.  ’ ’Poseidon has made investments in a number   of   companies operating in the legal marijuana   industry, including  a company   that helps dispensaries optimize growth, and  a cannabis analytics company.   Morgan and Emily, however, are still the only employees.  ’ ’   Though Poseidon is a relatively new firm, the Paxhias have a   ”long and winding history with cannabis,” Emily said.  ’ ’   In 2010, Emily moved to California where she started to notice   the beginnings of the marijuana boom, such as the first medical   marijuana dispensaries and early branded edibles.  ’ ’   ”Morgan and I started talking about it,” Emily said. ”Because who   else can you really talk to but your family when you’’re thinking   about crazy things?”  ’ ’  ’ ’   Morgan, who Emily describes as a ”brilliant economist,” said that   their interest in the marijuana came in two parts. First, they   saw a clear opportunity to make money. Second, they truly wanted   to spread knowledge about cannabis from a health, wellness,   and environmental standpoint. ’ ’   ”It was a question of how many times in life can you look at an   opportunity that really has a    impact to   yourself and to the world?” Morgan explained. ”That’’s what   resonated so strongly.” ’ ”   One of Poseidon’s main goals  —   besides generating solid returns,   although they declined to comment on specifics  —   is to espouse   the benefits of marijuana and increase fair and open access for   those who would otherwise turn to painkillers like opioids.   D decided to   start a fund, rather than a   company, Morgan   explained.  ” ”   Emily is a former consultant who’s done work with American   Express, and Morgan comes from a more traditional finance   background, having worked on UBS’s   desk as well   as at private investment firms. ” ’   ”We had two very unique   at a very unique point in   time,” Morgan said. ’ ’   ”The fact that we are siblings, is actually critical to the fact   that we’’ve been able to do this,” Emily added. ”Because you have   to trust your partner implicitly without question about their   motives and their intentions.”  ’ ’  ’ ”   With his banking experience, Morgan is responsible for developing   and implementing the firm’s investment strategies, as well as   performing the due diligence necessary for smart    . ” ’   Emily, with her consulting background, serves as the     for negotiations and monitoring the performance of portfolio   companies, as well as maintaining relationships within the larger   cannabis industry for future deals. ’ ’ engaging in a   business   requires some risk. Trust in your business partner is crucial. ’ ’   And while Emily is the older of the two, she   rejected my   question about whether that gives her license to boss her little   brother around at work. It’’s often actually harder on   the rest of their family, because cannabis ”dominates the   conversation,” she said, at every family gathering. ’ ’   Both Morgan and Emily agreed that their company and plans   would make their parents happy. ’ ’   ”They were both entrepreneurs,” Emily said. ”And for them to see   us doing something we are absolutely passionate about, and doing   it our way, would also make them very proud.” ’