’  ’ ’   Democratic vice presidential candidate Tim Kaine and Donald Trump   on Tuesday traded barbs over Russia, with Kaine accusing the   Republican nominee of encouraging espionage and Trump saying that   Russian President Vladimir Putin “laughs” at Hillary Clinton, the   Democratic nominee. ’ ’   Kaine lambasted Trump during a national security speech in North   Carolina, criticizing his business dealings with Russia, the ties   between some of his campaign advisers to the country and Trump’s   suggestion that he hoped Russian hackers could find missing   emails from when Clinton was secretary of state. ’ ’   “He has openly encouraged Russia to hack his political opponents   and commit espionage against his own country,” Kaine said. ’ ”   Kaine, in his first major policy speech since being tapped as   Clinton’s running mate, was drawing a contrast between how Trump   would approach U. S. relations with Russia and Clinton’s track   record as head of the U. S. State Department from 2009 to 2013,   during Barack Obama’s first term as president. ” ’   As head of the State Department, Clinton oversaw “    negotiations” with Russia to reduce nuclear stockpiles and   destroy Syrian chemical weapons, while still going “  ”   with Putin to protect America and NATO allies, Kaine said. “Trump   seems to support Russian interests at the expense of American   ones,” he added. ’ ’  ’ ’   At a campaign stop in Wilmington, North Carolina, on Tuesday,   Kaine also described Trump as ”emotionally volatile,     ” adding that the     mogul is too inexperienced for the White House. ’ ’   ”Donald Trump as commander in chief scares me to death,” Kaine   added, . ’ ’   Kaine ’s speech began less than an hour after Trump concluded a   campaign stop in Virginia, where he scoffed at the idea that   Clinton would hold any sway over Putin’s actions. ’ ’   “Putin looks at Hillary Clinton and he laughs. Putin looks at   Hillary Clinton and he smiles,” Trump said. ’ ’   The dueling addresses occurred as the focus of the U. S. battle   for the White House shifted to national security virtually two   months before the Nov. 8 presidential election, with both Clinton   and Trump set to participate in a televised forum on Wednesday   hosted by a veteran’s group. ’ ’   Trump followed up his Virginia event by meeting with the wives of   U. S. military personnel stationed at nearby installations. The   typically bombastic businessman listened attentively as the   women, some of whom held babies on their laps, described their   concerns about the quality of schools and finding jobs. ’ ’   “So much of this we can take care of,” Trump told them. ’ ’  ’ ”   Trump’s campaign also on Tuesday released a letter signed by 88   former U. S. military leaders who are supporting the New York   businessman’s unorthodox candidacy. ” ’   Clinton’s campaign early on Tuesday attempted to   any   move by Trump to distance himself from his past statements about   veterans and foreign policy by organizing a news conference with   military veterans before Trump’s event in Virginia and by   releasing a new television advertisement featuring veterans and   their families. ’ ’   In the ad, reactions of veterans and their families are   juxtaposed with footage of Trump saying that he knows more about   the Islamic State militant group than U. S. military generals,   criticizing U. S. Senator John McCain for being captured as a   prisoner of war in Vietnam and comparing what he called his own   sacrifices as a businessman to those of parents of slain   soldiers. ’ ’   Kaine said in his speech that he did not need to “spin” Trump’s   statements to win over U. S. voters because they could stand on   their own. ’