’  ’ ’   Less than a week after a sudden visit by Donald Trump left   Mexicans frustrated with their government, President Enrique Peña   Nieto has shuffled his cabinet  of one of his closest   advisers, Finance Minister Luis Videgaray. ’ ”   The invitation extended to Trump was  to have been Videgaray’s idea. ” ”   Reports  by The Wall Street Journal indicate   Videgaray told Peña Nieto that building ties with Trump could   sooth unease in financial markets, an important concern given   Trump’s rhetoric and Mexico’s recent economic doldrums. ” ”   The president  for Videgaray’s   resignation during his announcement. Videgaray’s office  the visit was his idea, and Peña Nieto   himself has taken  for the invitation. ” ’   ”He left because of Trump, no doubt,” Viridiana Rios, a fellow at   the Wilson Center and columnist for Mexican newspaper Excelsior,   told Business Insider. ’ ”   In the wake of the visit, which was widely seen as humiliating   for the Mexican president, the cabinet was divided, with the   foreign and interior ministries  to the visit,   according to The Journal. Some now see Videgaray’s departure as   an attempt by Peña Nieto to shore up approval ratings that had   sunk to new lows even before Trump set foot on Mexican soil. ” ’   The cabinet shake up was  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   There are other explanations for Videgaray’s departure. The   country’s weak economic growth, his personal  and  may be at play as well. ” ”   But Videgaray has  counseling   him since the latter was governor of the state of Mexico,   Mexico’s most populous state, from 2005 to 2011. And despite   Videgaray vacating his post in the finance ministry, there is a   strong possibility that he remains a close adviser to the   president, Rios told Business Insider. ” ”   Videgaray’s departure has necessitated a shuffling of posts in    ” ’  ’ ”ake over Meade’s role at   t” ”   Like Videgaray, Miranda has deep ties to Peña Nieto, serving as    for Peña Nieto’s government   in Mexico state. ” ”   Miranda’s new post underscores the suggestion that these moves   are the president’s attempt to bolster his administration in a   time of turmoil. ” ’   ”I read it as [Peña Nieto] putting a confidant into a key post,”       of the Americas   Society and Council of the Americas website, told Business   Insider. ’ ’ is part of   ’ ”   For others, Miranda’s appointment raises a red flag that Peña   Nieto may be giving politics precedence over policy,   signaling that   programs, which are     initiatives that provide money to families on   certain conditions, may be  rather than to most   effectively reduce poverty. ” ’   “What worries me most is the person they picked to be the   minister of social development,” Rios said. ”He is a politician   not an expert in poverty reduction.  ’