’  ’ ”   The 2016 NFL season kicks off with a hell of a game on the night   of September 8: The Carolina Panthers take on the Denver Broncos   in a rematch of last season’s Super Bowl, which the Broncos won     largely because of their   defense. ” ”   But along with the return of the pro and college seasons, with   Saturdays and Sundays spent tailgating and tallying fantasy   points come the stories of what’s happening to players whose   brains have been repeatedly battered. ” ’   This year one of the   cases is that of Tre Mason, a      running back for the Los Angeles Rams. Mason has    after a troubled offseason   that included multiple encounters with police. A stun gun was   used on him in one encounter. He was checked into the hospital   for strange behavior.  that head injuries have given him   the mindset of a   . ’ ’   ”As much as he’’s accomplished, as hard as he’’s worked, as much as   he’’s built his character, in   time it’’s going   downhill because of what’’s going on,” she said, . ”He doesn’’t even know.   He’’s not conscious enough.” ’ ”   If Mason’s story was one isolated incident, it could be treated   as an outlier, but clearly it’s not. Look at  from last year profiling former UNC   lineman Ryan Hoffman, whose mental decline left him homeless,   struggling with depression, substance abuse, and memory problems.    last December after riding his bike the wrong   way into traffic at night. And that’s before beginning to list   now deceased NFL players such as Junior Seau, Mike Webster, or   Dave Duerson, diagnosed after their deaths with a condition that   causes a breakdown in the brain known as chronic traumatic   encephalopathy, or CTE. ” ’   ”Until you live this every day and really hear the horror stories   of what happens to families when things go wrong,” it’’s hard to   understand these stories, says Chris Nowinski, cofounder and   executive director of the Concussion Legacy Institute, author of   ”,” and cofounder of the   Boston University CTE Center, largely responsible for   demonstrating the connection between football and degenerative   brain disease. ’ ’   ”Until the last 10 years these stories haven’’t been told,”   Nowinski tells Business Insider. ’ ’  ’ ”   These stories are not even necessarily about concussions, despite   the fact that it’s those   hits that leave someone   unable to focus, control emotional reactions and balance, and   properly process what’s happening around them that get the most   attention. The bigger, still   question is about the   impact of the hundreds or thousands of smaller hits to the head   that people  —   ranging from kids to adults  —   take while playing   football and other sports all the time. ” ”   We’re now in a weird situation. We know more about CTE than we   ever have before. At this point,  there’s a link between the   game and the degenerative disease. ” ”   But even though there are theories, scientists don’t know exactly   how people develop CTE. Is it 750 mild hits to the head? A few   thousand hits to the head? A couple of concussions and a few   hundred other hits? We can’t ethically test these things, and   they would vary for each individual anyway. ” ”   We don’t know the point at which we cross the line to inevitable   brain damage. It’s urgent that we support the research that can   try to answer that question. But in the meantime, how do we   decide the right approach to sports like football? ” ”   The question goes beyond football too  —   concerns have been raised   about heading the ball in soccer and of course about contact   sports like hockey or rugby. But football is the arena where we   have to confront this question most directly, as it’s perhaps the   most linked to these injuries and it’s the  in the US. ” ”   First, perhaps, we have to decide whether it’s right to encourage   kids to play. But if kids don’t play, eventually, adults won’t   either. And that leaves us in an awkward spot: If we determine   that brain damage is inevitable, should the sport be played at   all? ” ”   More and more fans wince now when they see a player go down and   not get back up. That’s when the specter of brain damage starts   to shine through. Professional sports are entertainment, and   there’d be no reason to play without an audience that’s worth   billions. So should we ? Writing as a conflicted fan, there’s no easy   answer. ” ’   As Sports Illustrated recently suggested, . Can it be saved? Should it? ’ ’  ’ ”   Even bringing this conversation up tends to bring out two   different groups  —   those who think it’s obvious that games like   football are stupid and those who think it isn’t manly to suggest   that there’s anything wrong with the state of affairs. ” ’   ”People talk about this at the edges,” says Nowinski. ”It’’s   either ’’every man for himself’’ or it’’s a ’’nanny state with   everyone in bubbles. ’’” We have to get beyond that to have a   productive conversation. ’ ’   Nowinski knows head injuries. After playing defensive tackle for   the Harvard football team, he became a professional wrestler. One   particular mismanaged concussion ended that career, but he also   experienced repeated blows to the head throughout that time,   something that we now know is far more dangerous than we once   thought. ’ ”   Most people don’t want to eliminate contact sports entirely, as   there are clear psychological and physical benefits to playing.   But for Nowinski at least, the state of affairs is untenable. ” ’   ”There’’s never a reason to hit a child in the head before high   school”  —   at the very least, he says. ”It’’s an unnecessary   activity.” ’ ’   And while that position goes further than many others advocate,   there are movements in that direction. ’ ’   This year, the Pop Warner football organization, the largest   youth program in the country, eliminated kickoffs for their   youngest divisions. ’ ’   ”It seemed to make sense to us, particularly on the advice of our   medical advisory committee,” says Jon Butler, the executive   director for Pop Warner. ’ ”   Butler says that other decisions that they’ve made to limit   contact, including rules drastically reducing hits in practice   and regulations requiring medical professionals to clear kids to   return to play after a head injury, have sharply . ” ’  ’ ’   ”If we find that there is a reduction in injuries and the overall   feedback is positive, we would gradually move this [elimination   of kickoffs] up through our other divisions of play,” he says,   pointing out that by moving moving the kickoff line forward, the   NFL essentially eliminated the chances of hard hits occurring on   kickoffs for pros, since most now result in a touchback. ’ ’   When we talk about whether ”we” should play football, there’’s of   course a big distinction between kids who play for glory,   acceptance, and fun, and adults, who, if they still play,   probably do so for money. But of course any changes to the game   for kids are going to affect adults eventually too, as these are   the kids who will or won’’t play the game in the future. If you   are going to talk about the college and pro level of the game,   you have to talk about kids too. ’ ’   Some think that changes to the game will make a huge difference.   In 2015,  medical director of athletics sports medicine   at Georgia Southern University, coauthored a provocative   editorial in the  asking ”if brain damage is an inevitable consequence or   an avoidable risk in American football.” ’ ’   Asplund tells Business Insider that he thinks both rule changes   and proper medical care can be transformative. ’ ’   ”A lot of the reason why these prominent players from the 70s and   80s got CTE is they sustained a concussion and didn’’t inform   anybody, they didn’’t stop playing,” he says. Now, ”people are   realizing that concussions are serious, they should stay out.” ’ ’   Treating head injuries carefully, teaching people safer   techniques, all of these things can definitely reduce the number   of injuries, he says. ’ ’   Clearly, the game can be made safer, as Butler and Asplund say. ’ ”   Whether that’ll be enough is unknown. ” ’   Nowinski isn’’t sure. It’’s hard to figure out the level of   ”acceptable risk,” especially for kids. ’ ’   ”It’’s an ethical question, what is our culture comfortable with,”   he asks. ”Is government underwriting brain damage for children   through school sports? What is fair to do to a child? Adult   sports can be dangerous, especially if they have informed consent   and a union looking out for them, but children don’’t have those   opportunities.” ’ ’  ’ ”   He does say that the pursuit of a middle ground is a good goal  —     advocating for rule changes, like those that have occurred at the   Pop Warner level. That’s something that most people who stop and   think about the sport agree with. ” ’   ”If you look back at the history of the game . .. the game evolved   and it continues to evolve,” says Butler. ”It’’s going to have to,   we know so much about the science now and it’’d be foolish not to   change it.” ’ ”   At the same time, Nowinski and others are pushing for more   research, especially studies into CTE. Many, like Asplund,   say we still have a lot to learn about CTE, and perhaps the   specific brains that we’ve studied make it seem like football is   riskier than it is. We still have a lot to learn. ” ”   But it’s possible that that research will confirm something that   deep down, we all know is a possibility. Maybe there’s no safe   way to get hit in the head repeatedly. ” ’   If so, should we play football at all? Should we watch? ’ ”   When Nowinski gives talks, he likes to ask the audience how many   times they’ve been hit in the head in the past year. A few people   might raise their hands. Then he asks how many have been hit in   the head more than 10 times. The hands go down. ” ’   ”No adults expose themselves to brain trauma unless they are   being paid for it,” he says. ”The only people who get hit in the   head thousands of times are kids.” In his opinion, the fair   number of hits might be the number that naturally would happen   without the culture created in sports like football  —   there would   probably be a few serious knocks to head, as happens to a large   percentage of the population, but the overall number would   drastically decrease. ’ ”   Maybe the game can be made safer. As a fan, I love that idea. But   I don’t know if it’s possible. Maybe not. ” ”   Nowinski argues that sometimes you can make changes to something   that make it safer, but that doesn’t mean that thing is a good   idea. He uses adding filters to cigarettes as an analogy. ” ’   ”You could argue that cigarettes today have never been safer, but   they are still going to cause lung cancer,” he says. ”I would   argue that football is in that position . .. Once you start   hitting kids in the head hundreds of times, maybe you’’re doing   something wrong.” ’