’  ’ ’   As expected, Apple has killed the headphone jack from its   upcoming iPhone 7. ’ ’   In its place, it is offering two options. ’ ’   The first is wired earbuds that connect through the Lighting   port. ’ ’   The second is a potential  : wild new wireless earbuds   called AirPods. ’ ’   AirPods sound as if they have  like noise cancellation and a   new wireless chip that Apple says solves all the things that   people hate about using wireless earbuds. ’ ’   They know when you are using them and they just connect  —   no   fuss, no mess. ’ ”   But people on Twitter have noticed a few potential flaws with the   AirPods. They use Apple’s classic earpiece design that can cause   the earbuds to falls out of people’s ears, especially during   exercise. ” ”   Apple seems to realize this because it also introduced a line of   Beats wireless headphones that uses the same chip, including an   updated pair of Beats designed for exercise. So it looks as   though Apple’s options are a bud that tends to fall out, or the   Beats    headphones. ” ’   People watching the Apple event have noticed and complained: ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tMy guess: the wireless AirPods won’t stay in some ears. Fortunately, 2 new Beats earbuds have ear hooks for people like me.  ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tAirPods. The    most lost item of 2016  ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tI don’t have  yet but somehow I’ve already lost them.  ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tI hope  comes with a ”Find My AirPod” feature when your wireless earbud falls out of your ear  ’ ’   The other odd thing is battery life. The pods are good for five   hours, and the case is also a charger, so it extends battery life   to 24 hours. But that means you have to keep the case with you   and not lose it, either. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tI need to invent a convenient  carrying case for airpods. Like a necklace or something lol’t’t’ ”   Finally, people don’t seem too happy about the price: $159. ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tAirPods are practically a steal at only $79. 50 per ear! ’t’t’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tCourage is buying the $159 Apple Air Pods and then going home to tell your spouse what you bought and for how much.  ’ ’   By the way, ”courage” is on its way to becoming a meme because   Phil Schiller, an Apple senior vice president, said at the event   that he was defending the removal of the earphone jack with ”one   word: courage.” ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’t”Courage.”   ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tHurray for ! I can’t wait to have adapters for my adapters to use my 3rd party adapters!   ”