’  ’ ’   Andy Murray lost to Kei Nishikori in the quarterfinals at the US   Open, losing control of the match after a bizarre sound   over the loudspeakers interrupted play.  ’ ’   Murray was up two sets to one and had a break point that would   have given him a   lead in the fourth set against Nishikori.   Murray seemingly had control of the point when something that   sounded like a loud gong rang from the speakers. ’ ’   After the bizarre sequence, Murray would lose seven straight   games, including the last five of the fourth set to tie the match   up at two sets apiece and the first two games of the fifth set.   He eventually lost the fifth set  . ’ ’   During the gong point, the umpire immediately called a let and   ordered the point to be played over. Murray threw his hands up in   disgust. ’ ’ ’ ’   Instead of shaking the point off and moving ahead, Murray seemed   to suffer a bit of a meltdown. ’ ”   On the second serve of the point being replayed, Murray hit his   return into the middle of the net, a shot that didn’t even come   close to clearing the net. He then immediately walked over to the   umpire. ” ”   Murray then argued that something similar happened in the first   set and that the umpire said then that she would not stop play.   Murray didn’t wait for an answer and instead just walked away. ” ’ ’ ’   ESPN commentator Cliff Drysdale wondered if the mishit was   intentional out of anger with the umpire, essentially giving up a   break point. ’ ’   ”Why would he walk away from that last point, it was break   point?” Drysdale wondered. ”It’’s almost like he didn’’t care. It’’s   almost like he wanted to make the point with the umpire, which is   fine, but make it after you win the point.” ’ ’   U. S. Open officials later released a statement saying the sound   was from a digital audio sound processor that   malfunctioned.  ’ ’   After losing the seven straight games, Murray finally righted the   ship a bit and won two straight games to even the decisive fifth   set  . But he eventually fell and it is Nishikori who is moving   on to the semifinals. ’