’  ’ ’   A Facebook page belonging to the city of East Liverpool,   Ohio, shared two grim photos it said it hoped would   ”show the other side” of the opioid crisis. ’ ”   The photos feature an unconscious man and woman who appear   to have suffered overdoses, while the woman’s    son sits   in the backseat of their car. ” ’   ”We feel it necessary to show the other side of this horrible   drug. We feel we need to be a voice for the children caught up in   this horrible mess,” the city wrote on Facebook. ’ ”   The uncommon decision to publish uncensored photos on social   media was made in conjunction with the mayor’s office, police   chief, and the city’s law director, public service and safety   director Brian Allen confirmed with Business   Insider.   ” ’   ”We are well aware that some may be offended by these images and   for that we are truly sorry, but it is time that the non drug   using public sees what we are now dealing with on a daily basis,”   the city’’s Facebook post read. ’ ’    ’ ’     drug overdoses have skyrocketed in recent years,   particularly in Ohio, as .   Over a   period in August, Cincinnati police reported more   than 60 overdose cases throughout the city. One officer called it   ”complete madness.” ’ ’   According to the incident report the city shared on   Facebook, East Liverpool officers first spotted the couple when   their vehicle began ”weaving back and forth” in the lane they   were driving in. ’ ’   The vehicle braked and skidded to a stop near a schoolbus   children were disembarking from, then began drifting back into   the street after the bus pulled away, the incident report   continued. ’ ’   When the vehicle eventually stopped again and police approached,   the driver said he had been taking his passenger to the hospital,   according to the report. Police described the woman as   ”completely unconscious.” ’ ’   After the man, too, went unconscious, paramedics arrived and   administered several rounds of the drug Narcan, which reverses   opioid overdoses, according to the report. Police said they found   ”a small amount of a pink powdery substance” in the car,    ’ ’  ’ ’   The two, identified as James Acord and Rhonda Pasek, were   arrested Wednesday on various charges, including child   endangerment, public intoxication, and slowing in a roadway,   according to the incident report. ’ ’   The goal in publishing the photos, Allen explained, was to   educate residents about the   overdoses occurring   within the city. Because of the involvement of the bus, the   incident had already garnered local media attention, and   news outlets were filing public records requests for   the photos, which officially became public record after   Acord pleaded guilty in court on Thursday, Allen said. ’ ’   Allen said police couldn’’t legally alter photos that are public   record but added city officials did consider censoring the   images before they were published on social media. Everyone,   however, agreed it ”wouldn’’t have told the same story,” he said. ’