’  ’ ”   It’s easy to see why EpiPen has become the focus of America’s   fury over drug prices. It treats potentially deadly allergic   reactions  —   for example, in a child who is stung by a bee  —   and   its price has spiked by over 500% in a few years. ” ”   While it’s easy to jump all over drugmakers, like EpiPen’s maker,   Mylan, other actors in the healthcare system ought to draw as   much scrutiny. ” ’   One group of companies, called   managers,   or PBMs, serve as middlemen, and they touch every part of the   purchase of a prescription drug. ’ ”   And now there’s a growing realization, from Washington to Wall   Street, that PBMs have been a big beneficiary of soaring drug   prices burdening Americans  —   profits of the largest companies   have doubled in recent years  —   even as they pitch their services   as critical to controlling costs. ” ’   It’’s what one Wall Street analyst described as a ”perverse   incentive” in the business. A recent Morgan Stanley analysis   showed that PBMs’’ earnings would take a direct hit if drug   companies began to slow down on price hikes. ’ ”   The biggest of these companies is Express Scripts, but PBM   services are also provided by CVS Health, UnitedHealth Group, and   several smaller companies. Because of their complexity and   opacity, they’ve managed to dodge the kind of intense scrutiny   that drugmakers are facing. ” ”   But that’s changing, and it’s bad news for the industry. PBMs are   being sued by some customers for   and they’re now   also starting to draw the attention of Congress. Perhaps the   biggest threat of all: They’re facing a backlash from America’s   largest employers, some of which are working on a way to rewire   the system. ” ”   Below, we’re going to try to explain how PBMs work for the more   than 260 million Americans they serve, and because, unlike the   other big companies, it is mostly a PBM, we’re going to use   Express Scripts to do this. ” ’     managers started simply enough. In the   1960s, they served a need. As more Americans started taking   prescription drugs, insurance companies were overwhelmed   processing claims. PBMs offered to do it for them. PBMs pioneered   plastic prescription cards and   drug delivery. ’ ”   They promised Americans they’d negotiate to keep drug prices   down. They promised insurers they’d make processing prescriptions   a lot cheaper and easier. And they promised drug companies they   would favor certain drugs in exchange for rebates and price   breaks. ” ”   They’re paid fees by the insurers and employers who use their   services. But they’re also taking a cut of every sale. That alone   isn’t a problem. American business is full of middlemen, and   nothing the PBMs do is illegal. ” ”   But where the PBMs are starting to get into trouble is that   they’re making bundles by keeping each player they deal with  —     pharmacies, insurers, drugmakers  —   partly in the dark. And those   bundles, you could argue, are coming at the expense of the people   who pay for healthcare. ” ’  ’ ”   Here’s how a PBM like Express Scripts controls information and   pricing. ” ”   Let’s say a doctor prescribes you a heartburn drug. Its list   price is $300, but the only people who pay that are those without   insurance. Because you have insurance, you go to your local   pharmacy and pay a $20  . For you, that’s it. Your insurer   might be paying $180 for the drug as part of a     agreement it came to years ago via the PBM. The pharmacy that   dispenses it may get only $160 for it. That $20 difference is a   spread, and that goes to your PBM as profit. That’s on top of   fees your insurer is paying the PBM to administer its     program. ” ”   That’s the simplest way this goes down. ” ”   All the while, the pharmacy has no idea how much your insurer is   paying for the drug, and your insurer isn’t exactly sure how much   the pharmacy is getting for dispensing the medicine. The drug   company, meanwhile, isn’t even getting close to the $300 list   price that makes everyone so angry. ” ’   Then things get really murky. ’ ”   If the price of the drug has increased, the PBM can be paid a   rebate for the excess, which it pockets. The insurer, which is   paying for the drug, won’t know. ” ’   ”These rebate amounts are less likely to be explicitly shared   with a client,” analysts at AllianceBernstein, an investment   firm, wrote in a recent note on Express Scripts. ’ ’   The note was written to answer the question of whether PBMs are   ”containing pharmacy costs or driving them.” AllianceBernstein’’s   answer was to put an ”underperform” rating on Express Scripts’’   stock, warning of the risk to investors as people start to figure   all this out. ’ ’  ’ ’   In the middle of the EpiPen news cycle,  the chief medical officer of   Express Scripts. ’ ’   ”If she wanted to lower the price tomorrow she could,” Miller   said of Mylan’’s CEO, Heather Bresch. ’ ’   He continued (emphasis added): ’ ’   ”We love transparency for our patients. Our patients should know   exactly what they’’re going to pay when they go to the pharmacy   counter. We love transparency for our clients  —   they can come in.   They can audit their contracts. They know exactly what they’’re   going to be required to pay . .. What we don’’t want is   transparency for our competitors.” ’ ’   Did you catch that? ’ ’   Express Scripts will tell clients how much they should pay, but   it is trying hard not to tell anyone how much things cost. The   problem is that when people find out, they seem to get very   angry. ’ ’   In February, at a congressional hearing about drug prices, Mark   Merritt, the PBMs’’ lobbyist in Washington, was grilled by   Republican Rep. Earl ”Buddy” Carter of Georgia. ’ ’   Carter owns a few small pharmacies, and he was getting very angry   about the lists, called formularies, that PBMs develop for their   clients. A formulary is a list of drugs that patients will be   reimbursed for on a given plan. ’ ”   PBMs also create maximum allowable cost (MAC) lists, which tell   the drug companies and pharmacies how much they’ll pay for a   medication. The prices on each list can be different, but only   the PBM knows the difference. ” ’   ”They have one list here that they’’re going to reimburse the   dispenser at. They have another list that they’’re going to charge   the insurance company that they’’re representing,” Carter said at   the hearing. ”Don’’t you find that somewhat awkward? Don’’t you   find that to be a situation where the PBM could distort the   market greatly?” ’ ’   Merritt said he did not. ’ ”   Carter also said that PBMs have caught the ire of states because   they were not updating their MAC lists frequently enough. That   means that even if a drug’s cost increases for a pharmacy, the   PBM still won’t pay more to buy the drug for its clients. ” ’   Merritt insisted that it was not accurate. ’ ’   Carter countered: ’ ’   In a statement to Business Insider, Express Scripts said, ”We   update [MAC lists] on a regular basis . .. as need be.” It would   not elaborate further. ’ ’  ’ ’   Further complicating the issue with drug companies, PBMs have   entered into businesses beyond just managing lists and buying   drugs. Many have their own specialty pharmacies, which are     pharmacies that manage drugs that are hard to   distribute. Express Scripts, for example, has a specialty   pharmacy called Accredo Health. ’ ’   Carter says he has adjudicated claims for customers in his   pharmacy, had them rejected, and then seen the PBM call the   customer right away to tell them to use its specialty pharmacy. ’ ’   ”A   pharmacy that is owned by the PBM  —   now don’’t you   find that conflict of interest? Don’’t you find it a conflict of   interest when a PBM not only owns the pharmacy but they’’re   reimbursing here?” he asked. ’ ’   What he means is that the PBM helps to manage the drugs on the   formulary and negotiates the price of the drug that it could be   buying from itself. ’ ’   Express Scripts also has a business that manages     programs called United BioSource. Drug   companies use these assistance programs to help patients get   around   and often point to them when drug costs go up   really fast. Express Scripts picks up a management fee for doling   out this cash. ’ ”   While all this complex stuff is going on in the background, the   patient’s price is being held steady. In his CNBC   interview, Miller bragged that patients saw their EpiPen     increase from $73. 03 to just $73. 50. ” ’   ”We’’re really trying to protect our plans,” he said. ’ ’   What it really does, though, is protect all the players from   patient outrage, because rising drug prices mean rising rebates   and increasing profits for the PBM. ’ ”   In a research note, Morgan Stanley analysts walked through what   would happen with a single product: Allergan’s chronic     treatment, Restasis. ” ’   The price of Restasis has increased by double digits annually in   recent years, and so has the income generated from rebates   related to it. If Allergan were to cut back on price hikes,    those earnings would drop by 15%. ’ ”   Of course, clients such as insurers don’t know exactly how much   drugs cost the PBM once it has negotiated its own rebate with a   drug company; clients just know how much they’re paying a PBM. ” ”   Are you seeing a trend here? Whether it’s from drug companies   like Mylan or PBMs, real prices are just hard to come by. And   because their hands are in all corners of the business  —   the   lists that get you to customers, the assistance programs that get   customers to pay, the pharmacies that can sell you the drugs  —     that suits PBMs just fine. ” ’  ’ ’   With a market cap of $45. 7 billion, Express Scripts is the   largest of the PBMs and was created as a PBM, not an insurer or a   pharmacy like its two primary competitors, UnitedHealth and CVS   Health. The three control most of the PBM industry. ’ ”   Based in St. Louis, Express Scripts exploded in 2011 when it   announced it would purchase Medco Health Solutions for $29. 1   billion. In 2010, before that deal, the company’s revenue was   $44. 97 billion. In 2015, it was $101. 75 billion. ” ’   We asked Express Scripts if it thought there were any conflicts   of interest in the way its business is structured, conflicts that   may prompt the company to add a drug to a formulary or stock it   in its pharmacy (Accredo Health) for example. ’ ’   Time and time again, the company said that clients make choices   and Express Scripts just gives advice. ’ ’   Here are a few of the answers we got: ’ ”Linette Lopez: If the price of a drug increases,   doesn’t payment to your company increase as well? ” ”Express Scripts: All individual client contracts   are geared toward driving down the cost of healthcare while   creating the best possible outcomes for patients. Express   Scripts’ performance is contingent on our ability save our   clients money while ensuring that patients have access to the   right medications at the best possible price with the greatest   level of care. ” ’Lopez: Does Accredo sell drugs that it also   provides   programs for? ’ ’Express Scripts: Pharmaceutical manufacturers   choose their PAP providers as well as their distribution   channels. There are drugs dispensed by Accredo that have PAPs   operated by [United BioSource]. For some products, we determine   eligibility and dispense the product, and for others the   manufacturer contracts with Accredo to handle only dispensing. ’ ’Lopez: For what drug companies does United   BioSource administer   programs? ’ ’Express Scripts: [United BioSource] works with a   number of manufacturers to implement PAPs to ensure that   uninsured and underinsured patients who meet the qualifications   of the program get access to the drugs they need. The number of   companies is proprietary. ’ ’  ’ ”   What these answers reveal is that yes, sometimes Express Scripts   gets paid for managing   programs for drugs it   also sells through its own pharmacy. So not only is the situation   Carter described possible, patients won’t even know what’s going   on because the   program will mask all the cost   for them. ” ’   And no, you cannot find out whom Express Scripts managing     programs for. ’ ’   And, by the way, no, Express Scripts does not ”find it odd” (as   Carter said) that it manages those two lists  —   one for what drug   companies can charge and one for what clients have to pay. ’ ’   ”The client chooses how they would prefer to contract with us or   any PBM for its service,” the company told Business Insider.   ”Spread pricing is aligned with the payer’’s desire to control   costs and our ability to do so. Through spread pricing, we offer   lower rates and leverage our ability to secure better discounts   from retail pharmacies over the life of the contract.” ’ ’   Many clients do not agree with this. ’ ’   Earlier this year, some of America’’s biggest employers  —     including American Express, Macy’’s,    —   created an   organization called the Health Transformation Alliance with the   aim of breaking with ”existing marketplace practices that are   costly, wasteful, and inefficient, all of which have resulted in   employees paying higher premiums, copayments, and deductibles   every year.” And they have PBMs in their sights. ’ ”   Here’s Barron’s magazine on one way they’ll do this: ” ”   There’s more. Express Scripts gets a significant chunk of its   revenue from two clients: the Department of Defense and Anthem   Insurance. ” ’   But Anthem is suing Express Scripts for breaching its     contract with the company, alleging that it ”failed to negotiate   new pricing concessions in good faith.” It’’s seeking $15 billion   in legal damages. ’ ’   A number of Anthem clients are also suing both Express Scripts   and Anthem for the money they spent on overpriced healthcare. ’ ’   In California, clients are suing Express Scripts for failing ”to   comply with statutory obligations to provide the state’’s clients   with the results of a biannual survey of retail drug prices.” ’ ’   Express Scripts sent us its response to the Anthem case.   Basically, it argues that it had a deal, and it accuses Anthem of   being the one to violate the agreement. ’ ”   The response is replete with redactions meant to protect the   terms of its contract with the insurer. It’s these redactions,   these facts concealed by omissions, that AllianceBernstein   believes puts the PBM industry in peril. ” ’   ”We believe retail spread benefits from a lack of transparency   and   investigation has the potential to reduce   spread. We believe greater awareness of rebate levels or price   protection rebates would increase necessary sharing with   clients,” the analysts wrote. ’ ”   In other words, once America finds out how this business works,   it’s not going to like how this business works. ”