’  ’ ’   During the development of the 787 Dreamliner, Boeing encountered   countless engineering hurdles. ’ ’   One of which was the decision to  instead of   the aluminum most commonly used on commercial airliners. ’ ”   While the engineering of the composite airframe may have been a   challenge, it’s a decision that allowed Boeing to make a major   change to its aircraft that could greatly reduce the effect of   jet lag on its passengers. ” ’   ”The Dreamliner has a composite fuselage and that allowed us to   pressurize it at whatever altitude we wanted because the material   is not as susceptible to fatigue,” Blake Emery, director of   differentiation strategy for Boeing Commercial Airplanes, told   Business Insider in an interview. ’ ’   Currently, most airliners have cabin air pressure equivalent to   that of an altitude of 8, 000 feet. For the Dreamliner, Boeing cut   that down to 6, 000 feet. ’ ’   ”To lower the cabin altitude, we actually increased the air   pressure inside the cabin,” Emery added. ”It’’s a bit   counterintuitive for most people.” ’ ’  ’ ’   For most of us, a long flight is usually followed by some   combination of symptoms that include headaches, lack of appetite,   lack of energy, nausea, and sleeplessness. ’ ”   All of these afflictions have been conveniently bundled together   with a disruption of one’s internal body clock to form something   we call jet lag. ” ’   But the reality is that jet lag is far more serious. ’ ’   The very symptoms we attribute to jet lag may actually be   attributed to acute mountain sickness, which affects individuals   exposed to altitudes above 6, 500 feet. ’ ’   In a  researchers wrote: ’ ’   The study found that passengers who go from sea level up to 8, 000   feet of altitude saw the oxygen content in their blood fall 4%.   Although this didn’’t trigger full on acute mountain sickness, it   did bring on what the study called ”increased prevalence of   discomfort after three to nine hours” of exposure. ’ ’   ”The research showed passengers’’ bodies reacted at 6, 000 feet   similar to that at sea level,” Emery said. ”So we decided to   pressurize the Dreamliner at 6, 000 feet.” ’ ’   At 6, 000 feet, the cabin air is more dense and has a greater   level of oxygen saturation. As result, the body does not have to   work as hard to oxygenate blood and sustain itself. ’ ’  ’ ”   According to Emery, since there isn’t a perfect      correlation between altitude and jet lag, Boeing has taken   additional measures to mitigate the symptoms. These measures   include an increase in cabin humidity as well as a new     system. ” ”   The Dreamliner won’t be the only Boeing jet to have a have a   lower cabin altitude. The company’s upcoming 777X       jet will also be pressurized at 6, 000 feet. ” ”   However, unlike the composite Dreamliner, the 777X, Boeing’s   successor to landmark 777, will be primarily made of aluminum. ” ’   ”Aluminum aircraft can be pressurized to 6, 000 feet,” Kent   Craver, Boeing Commercial Airplanes regional director of   passenger satisfaction, told Business Insider in an interview.   ”In fact, most business jets are already pressurized to that   level.” ’ ’   In addition,  on its next generation of airliners. ’ ’   Airplane makers have traditionally avoided lowering the cabin   altitude because boosting the air pressure inside the cabin puts   greater stress on aluminum airframes. This increases the   likelihood of metal fatigue and shortens the service life of the   airplane. ’ ’  ’ ’   However, Boeing believes it can successfully lower cabin altitude   on the 777X without going to a composite body. ’ ’   ”We know the 777 fuselage, its structural qualities, and its   fatigue margins really well,” a Boeing spokesperson told us in an   email. ”We also understand the requirements of the lower cabin   altitude in terms of cycles and pressures on the fuselage. As a   result, we can achieve it with a few local reinforcements and   change those loads out to accommodate lower cabin altitude.” ’ ’   The  in 2019. ’