’  ’ ’   In 2006, Israel sent its top tier  to fight against largely unarmored   Hezbollah divisions, but they still faced considerable losses   owing to the proliferation of advanced antitank rounds, many of   which originated in Russia. ’ ’   Fast forward to the 2014 Gaza conflict with Hamas. Despite Hamas   having similar weapons and backing, not a single Merkava or   Israeli armored fighting vehicle was lost. The reason being   that Israel had perfected the  (APS) to   defend its tanks. ’ ”   The US, on the other hand, has not faced a peer or     adversary in ground combat in decades, and, as a reflection of   that, the US’s main combat tank, the  lacks an APS. ” ’   Today, limited US forces advise and assist forces in Syria, where   no fewer than eight antitank missile systems are in play,   according to a . ’ ’   The most worrisome of these systems originate in Russia and use   clever means to defeat   systems. This highlights   the need for the US to modernize its      defenses. ’ ”   But finding an APS for the US Army and Marine Corps’ global   ground force is fraught with difficulties. Even if the US were to   buy and deploy Israel’s tested Trophy system, there are many   additional considerations to be made. ” ’   The Marines, for instance, need an APS that can be deployed on   boats and resist   corrosion. The systems, with their   advanced sensors needed to detect and destroy incoming threats in   the blinding speed of   conflict, may interfere with each   other or malfunction. ’ ’  ’ ’   Because the systems need to operate in milliseconds, no human can   deploy them. Therefore they need to be automated, and collateral   damage is a real risk. APS uses a hail of shrapnel to thwart   incoming rockets, filling the area outside the tank   with explosions and flying debris that could potentially   harm friendly troops. ’ ”   Because of the US’s high standards of protecting lives and   property, public and private, they must come up with a   satisfactory solution to these issues. ” ’   Meanwhile Russia claims to have developed the  a truly   tank   fitted with a bigger gun, better armor, and APS all around.  ’ ’  ’ ’   While there is reason to doubt the overall capabilities of the     antitank weapons systems are proven to be effective   and in the hands of militias around the world. ’ ’   For the US to retain its asymmetrical advantage in ground   warfare, as it has done for decades, the issue of protecting   armored vehicles must be addressed. ’