’’ ”Recreational marijuana has been on the Colorado market for over two years now, and we’re starting to get some interesting data about the preferences of its consumers.” ’ an online   platform, and  a   analytics company, teamed up to release a report outlining the most popular marijuana strains in the legal Colorado market.’ ”Marijuana comes in two distinct species, sativa and indica, and they’re thought to have different effects on your mind and body. ” ”Many of those effects, however, are   and the science isn’t totally clear on how the particular compounds in the marijuana actually interact with your brain, as  reported.” ’Generally speaking, sativa strains are considered to be energizing ”head” highs, while indica strains are more subdued ”body” highs, helpful for putting you to sleep. ’ ’Blue Dream, the   strain, is a ”pretty potent sativa,” John Manlove, the director of sales at Tradiv told Business Insider over the phone.’ ’Consumers like it because it gives them an ”energetic” high, Manlove said. But it’’s not only popular because of consumers  —   it’’s also easy to grow and cultivate.’ ’”It’’s not a fickle strain,” Manlove said. ”It’’s not very susceptible to mold and pests, and the common stresses on a plant. ”’ ”More importantly, it’s a   strain, so for cultivators, the economics of growing Blue Dream make sense.” ’The report itself is based off of    data from arepresent 15% to 20% of the market. The sample was then fed through a proprietary algorithm to represent the whole market, Liz Stahura, the vice president of BDS Analytics, told Business Insider in an email. ’ ”Editor’s note: While the science remains murky and various strains affect different people in different ways, we pulled product descriptions from  a popular   website. ” ’ is an   hybrid strain, which produces large, heavy buds, and its effects hit you ”quickly and heavily. ”’ ” is a sativa strain that will give smokers a strong burst of energy. It’ll help you increase your focus during the day.” ’ is a pure indica strain. It’’s known for its relaxing effects, which cause a ”dreamy euphoria” that ”settles in the body.” It’’s good for relieving stress and helping you sleep after a long day.’ ” is a cross between OG Kush and Durban Poison, and it’s bred for maximum potency. This strain is known for its high THC content  —   marijuana’s active ingredient. ” ’ is a cross between two strains, blueberry and sour diesel. The strain gets its name from the buds, which give off a pungent,   odor’ ” is another sativa strain, and it’s a popular strain for medical patients dealing with anything from stress to depression and chronic pain.  ” ’ is one the three main varieties of the Bruce Banner strain. It’’s a potent hybrid strain (meaning it was originally bred from both sativa and indica plants) and it’’ll give you a ”euphoric” buzz.’ ’ is a sativa popular for its ”uplifting and energetic” effects. It’’s a good strain to consume during the day to maintain productivity and boost creativity.’ ’ is a   strain that blends ”’