’  ’ ’   The surviving members of Led Zeppelin  —   Jimmy Page, Robert Plant,   and John Paul Jones  —    in which they were accused of   ripping off parts of a song called ”Taurus” by the band Spirit to   create their epic, ”Stairway to Heaven.” ’ ’   ”Stairway” is on Zep’’s fourth, unnamed album, from 1971. Fans   usually refer to it as ”Led Zeppelin IV,” and it’’s the   culmination of the band’’s early period, which began in 1969 with   Led Zeppelin I. ’ ’   Following Zep IV, the group released 1973’’s ”Houses of the Holy,”   then 1975’’s   ”Physical Graffiti.” The period from   the     was when the band’’s legend grew, as they   set new concert attendance records, sold millions of records,   dominated radio, and developed a reputation for unmatched rock   ’’n’’ roll excess. ’ ”   Lost in much of the hoopla was Zep’s impressive musical   maturation. The first four records represent a cycle, with a       blues quartet blended with a very   heavy, progressive folk sensibility. Page was the band’s     guitar hero and studio producer, and he was   distinctive and skilled at both jobs. Plant’s vocals were unique   and versatile, and his stage presence was iconic. Jones could do   anything, and drummer John Bonham was a force of nature. ” ’   After   Zep became far more progressive and eclectic, but 40   years ago this year, in 1976, they headed back to basics while   created their most difficult album, under difficult   circumstances. ’ ’   It was 1976’’s ”Presence,” and it signaled a return, a departure,   and the beginnings of Zep’’s disintegration.  ’ ’  ’ ’   Page started Led Zeppelin with two basic ideas: that it would be   ”dynamic” band, capable of traversing a broad spectrum of musical   styles, tones, and moods; and that it would be four bandmates   combining to form a fifth element, achieving an intangible   alchemy that would give Zep a powerful legacy. ’ ’   But with ”Presence,” the alchemy that had been so compelling up   to that point began to fail. To edit a line from one of   Zep’’s hits, ”Ramble On” from Led Zeppelin II, magic no longer   filled the air. ’ ’   The main challenge was that while on vacation in Greece, Plant   was involved in a car accident with his wife and wound up   having to record ”Presence” in a wheelchair. He didn’’t want to be   there, but ”Presence” would be the second album for the band   under their own Swan Song label, so it was important. ’ ’   For this reason, ”Presence” became something of a Jimmy Page solo   album, which makes sense, because the   Page wasn’’t the   introverted   geek and studio nerd of the band’’s   early period, with a more than a passing interest in esoteric   philosophy and art  —   he was Jimmy Page the mighty     guitar god, shimmying on stage in his black dragon suit and   beginning his flirtation with heavy drugs. ’ ’  ’ ’   The centerpiece of ”Presence” is the epic,       guitar opera, ”Achilles Last Stand,” a tune into which Page put   everything he knew about guitar playing and studio production.   Zeppelin’’s lyrics, mostly composed by Plant, had often played   with folk traditions in addition to messing with   blues   motifs (and at times borrowing directly from them) but   ”Achilles” had a bold yet lamenting connection to classical   themes, blended   with Zep’’s own   experience. ’ ’   For example, ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’