’  ’ ”   Alphabet’s life sciences company Verily is making an even bigger   bet on diabetes. ” ”   It’s teaming up with Sanofi,  to spin out a new joint venture, which will be called   Onduo.  ” ”   The company, which will be based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, is   tasked with finding ways to help people living with diabetes   to help them better live with and treat the disease. It’ll draw   from Sanofi’s experience making drugs to treat diabetes and   Verily’s experience in analytics, software, and miniaturized   devices. The new company is the result of Verily’s past   partnership with Sanofi.  ” ”   Diabetes is a condition in which people have a hard time   processing blood sugar. To start, Onduo will be focused on type 2   diabetes. In total, diabetes affects 371 million people   worldwide, a number that’s expected to increase to . ” ”   But what Onduo settles on making to help this community is   still up in the air, on purpose, Onduo’s CEO Dr. Josh Riff told   Business Insider. ” ’’ ’   ”That’s the beauty of it. . .. We’’re not jumping to solutions   because we’’re in a rush to get to market,” Riff said. ”We’’re   taking a thoughtful approach to finding lasting solutions.”  ’ ’   That means in the end, they could end up creating a service, or   building a piece of software, or some other combination of   technology and medicine. ’ ’   ”A ’ ”   Before heading Onduo, Riff most recently worked for Optum,   UnitedHealth Group’s health services group, where he worked in   prevention and  . Earlier on in his career an emergency   room doctor, he saw firsthand what happens when diabetes gets out   of control. Doing damage control, he said, is how he started to   change his career to focus more on prevention so he could help   people keep their conditions in check. ” ”   Verily has its hands in a lot of projects. It has been   developing  and it makes  to eat. It’s also partnered with some of the   biggest names in pharma in everything from diabetes care to a    as well as a   bioelectronics    that that will develop ways to use electric   signals to treat chronic illnesses. ” ’   The plan with spinning out Onduo was to have an independent   entity to start testing out the diabetes management solutions the   company has in store.  ’ ’   Right off the bat, Onduo will be partnering with two   healthcare networks, Sutter Health and Allegheny Health Network,   so that health care providers can start testing out the diabetes   management platform Onduo creates. ’