’  ’ ’   Imagine a war raging in central Texas, stretching eastward. ’ ’   San Antonio lies in the southwest of our fictional battlefield,   Austin is 80 miles to the north, and Dallas sits 200 miles   farther along the same highway, near the northwestern border. ’ ’   Houston does not exist as part of the conflict, lying just   outside the southeastern border, and the northeastern edge of   this   country peeks into Louisiana and Arkansas. ’ ’   During this devastating conflict, many areas have fallen outside   the government’s control. Rebel groups have seized huge swaths of   territory starting a few miles east of Dallas and progressing all   the way to our country’s eastern border. ’ ’   The rebels hold sway over dozens of towns, from Greenville, Texas   (population: 25, 557) all the way to their de facto capital in   Shreveport, Louisiana (population: 200, 327). With insurgents also   seizing many villages to the west and south of Dallas, the   government has lost control of roughly 75 percent of the   country’s territory. ’ ’   Most Americans would understand intuitively how to win this war.   The key is to capture the cities spread across the country’s   western spine: The metropolitan areas of San Antonio, Austin, and   Dallas are home to over 10 million people, dwarfing the villages   in east Texas and the scrub brush hinterlands of the Deep South.   Control those three cities, and you can muster the resources to   beat back a rural insurgency  —   or hold enough leverage to   negotiate an end to the conflict on your terms. ’ ’   President Bashar   has grasped this strategy and is using   it to thwart those who seek to topple him. ’ ’   Our fictional battlefield is, of course, a map of Syria grafted   onto an American landscape: San Antonio lies roughly where   Damascus would be, Austin stands in for Homs, and Dallas is   Aleppo  —   the three largest, most prosperous Syrian cities before   the war. The war has particularly devastated Homs and Aleppo,   with many of the cities’ residents fleeing abroad or to     areas around the capital or the coastal   districts. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   International attention on Syria  —   along with Western coalition   airstrikes  —   is now focused on the struggle for a string of small   cities northeast of Aleppo. ’ ’   Assad’s enemies in the region  —   the Islamic State, the     Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) and     rebels  —   are fighting one another on a battlefield extending from   the town of   to the Euphrates River. ’ ’   Major news outlets have    the   town   of Manbij as “strategic” during this new wave of fighting. Manbij    —   which boasted a prewar population of 75, 000, similar to   Longview, Texas  —   had never before been described as strategic in   the   course of the Syrian war, according to a Nexis   search. ’ ’   Perhaps journalists have awoken to the town’s importance, or   perhaps they have manufactured its “strategic” nature to convince   readers of their article’s significance. ’ ’   If you happen to be a resident of Manbij or a neighboring   village, of course, the town is indeed strategic. The area is   also significant to the Islamic State due to the border with   Turkey, and to the Kurds as a pathway to unite the areas under   their control. ’ ’   In terms of determining who wins the larger struggle for control   of Syria, however, its importance is marginal. In our American   battlefield, it corresponds roughly to the area between the Texas   towns of Farmersville and Cooper  —   a   stretch of land that   traverses a few small villages, much like its Syrian counterpart. ’ ’  ’ ’   Assad long ago relinquished control over many of the Syrian   equivalents of Farmersville and Cooper. Instead, he has poured   his resources into shoring up his position in Damascus, Homs, and   Aleppo. ’ ’   The stretch of land connecting these three cities, and running   through the predominantly Alawite coastal areas that constitute   Assad’s strongest base of support, forms what some analysts    “useful Syria. ” ’ ’   It’s not only Syria’s population center, it’s the country’s   economic engine. Fabrice Balanche, a visiting fellow at the   Washington Institute for Near East Policy,  that 10 million of   the 16 million Syrians still in the country reside in     areas centered on this stretch of land. ’ ’   Most of the power stations that supply the country with   electricity are between Damascus and Aleppo, as Chatham House   analyst David Butter helpfully  while the   refineries that supply fuel to   areas are   around Homs. ’ ’   Good   data on the Syrian economy is hard to come   by, but the Syrian Bureau of Statistics does have prewar   statistics that  the majority of the   country’s private industrial facilities also existed in this   area. ’ ’   The loyalists’ most notable success has been in Damascus, where     forces have combined a massive     campaign with starvation sieges to beat rebel groups in the   capital’s suburbs into submission. Two weeks ago, the     suburb of Daraya  to the   government after a punishing   siege. ’ ’  ’ ’   In May, loyalist fighters capitalized on rebel infighting to   capture key agricultural land in East Ghouta  —   potentially paving   the way for even worse starvation when winter comes. The   government also appears to have successfully contained any threat   from Yarmouk Camp, a settlement for Palestinian refugees near the   capital, which has been racked by the Islamic State’s   infiltration and a stifling government siege. ’ ’   The trends in Syria’s other main cities are also moving in the   loyalists’ direction.   forces, which long ago   forced the rebels’ surrender in Homs, this week resumed their   bombing of the city’s besieged suburb of  . The opposition   fighters there are  a deal that would   see them withdraw from the area. ’ ’   The coastal governorates of Tartous and Latakia remain firmly in   the government’s hands, and the rebel offensive in the south has   . The news from   Aleppo is also bad for the   fighters: On Sunday,   loyalist forces  on     areas of the northern city. ’ ’   None of this is to suggest that Assad should rest easy. These   gains have been possible only with massive Russian and Iranian   intervention, and there is every reason to believe Assad could   fall if Moscow or Tehran were to dial back their support. ’ ’   Assad also risks Russia and Iran taking steps in Syria that are   beneficial to their own strategic interests but harmful to his   authority  —   as arguably just occurred when President Vladimir   Putin neglected to use his air defenses in Syria to thwart   Turkey’s incursion in the north. ’ ’  ’ ’   Assad should also be concerned about his faltering grip over the   Syrian forces fighting on his side. Tobias Schneider, in a    for War   on the Rocks, details how the long war has eaten away at   Syria’s state institutions. ’ ’   The armed forces have crumbled, he argues, replaced by local   militias that engage in criminal enterprises, smuggling, and   destructive infighting on a scale that the government is too weak   to control. It is these armed thugs, Schneider argues, who truly   hold sway in “ ” Syria  —   not Assad himself. ’ ’   Assad faces increasing threats to his authority from his domestic   and international allies, even as the constellation of   “ ” forces makes progress in beating back the armed   insurgency. Translated to our imaginary Texas battlefield, he has   increasingly succeeded in securing San Antonio, Austin, and   Dallas and transforming the conflict into a struggle for   ancillary towns like Greenville or Longview. ’ ’   It is possible that Kurdish or   forces will hold on   to these outlying towns and villages, even as their ability to   threaten Assad’s grip over the rest of the country grows   increasingly illusory. ’ ’   The Syrian president could well lose this war, but he is making   it very difficult for rebel forces to win. ’