’  ’ ”   Hillary Clinton’s  stirred   speculation on what would happen if she dropped   out of the race before Election Day. ” ’   A former Democratic National Committee chairman  on Monday that the party   should start coming up with a contingency plan should Clinton   need to exit the race. ’ ’   ”Now is the time for all good political leaders to come to the   aid of their party,” said Don Fowler, who led the committee from   1995 to 1997. ”I think the plan should be developed by 6 o’clock   this afternoon.” ’ ’   Fowler said ”you would be a fool not to prepare” a   plan. ’ ’   So what would happen if Clinton dropped out? The rules on   replacing candidates vary from party to party. ’ ’’ ”   The Democratic Party’s rules, which are similar to the Republican   party’s, state that the party chairperson would have to call a   special meeting to fill any vacancy on the national ticket,    AFP. The decision on who should   fill the vacancy would be based on a majority vote from those who   attend the meeting. ” ’   The Republican rules are similar, AFP noted. ’ ”   If the rules for replacing presidential candidates seem vague,   it’s by design. ” ’   ”It gives them the opportunity to make the best decision, rather   than tie their hands with some kind of process that would give   them a nominee they will not be comfortable with,” Jeanne   Zaino, a professor of political science at Iona College in New   York, told AFP. ’ ’   Clinton is taking a break from campaigning while she recovers   from pneumonia. She  with the illness on Friday, and her campaign   announced it to the public on Sunday when she had to leave a     memorial event early because she was feeling ”overheated.” ’ ’   Campaign spokesman Brian Fallon  and Clinton herself  Monday afternoon that she’’s ”anxious   to get back out there.” ’ ”   But questions about her health have surfaced recently as she’s   been seen with a bad cough at speaking events. ” ’   Fallon, however, said ”there is no other undisclosed condition”   Clinton suffers from. ’