’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”So maybe his tax returns confirm or maybe they contest what he   said,” Cuban said. ”But we already know he’’s full of     on   tax returns on charity, right?” ’ ”   Cuban mentioned the ongoing scandal regarding the Trump   Foundation’s illegal 2013 campaign donation to Florida Attorney   General Pam Bondi, which has received increased attention   recently after the Internal Revenue Service recently slapped   the charity with a $2, 500 fine.  found that the foundation did not list the   contribution in its tax filings, and Trump later reimbursed the   foundation for the donation. ” ’   A Trump Organization senior vice president told The Post that it   was ”an honest mistake” that the contribution wasn’’t properly   listed. ’ ’   Bondi was considering whether to take up a fraud investigation   into the   Trump University at that time. She decided   against doing so. ’ ’   ”He tried to cover up the foundation’’s donation to Pam Bondi, and   you know, the   hasn’’t been worse than the crime, but   that’’s okay, we’’ve already know,” Cuban said. ”So what are his   tax returns going to tell us? The operational quality or earnings   of his businesses on his  ?” ’ ’   ”Well we know he’’s in real estate so we know he’’s going to have   huge losses and he’’s going to work it that way,” he continued. ”I   think maybe, if he gave them, all we’’re going to do is argue   about the quality or what they mean, which again means not   dealing with any other issue. It’’s just stupid. I get why   everybody is doing it, but at the same time, it doesn’’t really   accomplish anything.” ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’   T ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’ Cuban provided a different   take on Trump’’s refusal to release his tax returns, using a     —   uploaded by The   Washington Post as a part of its ”” project  —   to make his point. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’     shareholders must ”report the   of income and losses   on their personal tax returns and are assessed tax at their   individual income tax rates.” And   are responsible   ”for tax on certain   gains and passive income at the   entity level.” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’     income ”passes through” the business to the   individual returns of its owners. the loophole as the biggest tax break for   the wealthy in Trump’’s plan. Though analyses have shown that a   plan similar to Trump’’s would aid small businesses, most of its   benefits would go to wealthier business owners. ’ ”     income today is taxed at individual rates, with a   ceiling of 39. 6%. Trump’s plan slashes the tax rate for this   income to 15%. ” ’   An analysis by the  showed that the vast   majority of   income goes to the top 1% of earners,   with the top 400 earners in 2013 acquiring 20% of their total   income this way. For those 400 people, that came out to slightly   more than $94 million each on average. ’ ’  ’