’  ’ ’   Rothenberg Ventures has been the talk of Silicon Valley over the   last two weeks, as the small   firm led by   charismatic    Mike Rothenberg has essentially imploded. ’ ”   Jessi Hempel and Lauren Smiley  and Business Insider has   learned some additional details from a letter sent to the firm’s     investors on Tuesday morning. ” ’   The firm, which had had about $50 million under management, has   run out of operating money, and all its employees except its   lawyer were on unpaid leave as of   according to the   Backchannel report. ’ ’   Now, according to an email obtained by Business Insider   (duplicated below) Rothenberg has asked his investors  —   ”limited   partners” in VC lingo  —   for assistance in raising additional   working capital and offered them a chance to join the general   partnership. Rothenberg had been the only general partner. ’ ’   The firm still exists but has changed its name to . ’ ’’ ’   Rothenberg says in the letter that the firm is cooperating with   an inquiry by the Securities and Exchange Commission, and he   laments the recent ”unfortunate press coverage,” though he   maintains a steadfast focus on the fund rather than ”reacting to   the press.” ’ ”   The email also provides a recap of a phone call Rothenberg   conducted with the firm’s   investors on August 29. ” ”   Missing from the email’s account of the phone call highlights,   though, are what one person familiar with the situation described   as some contentious moments: Rothenberg had signaled intentions   to announce he was stepping down, but changed his mind. ” ’   According to this person, Rothenberg said on the call that the   media was out to get him and that his only fault was being too   ambitious. He then hung up without taking questions, this person   said. ’ ’   A representative for Rothenberg declined to comment. ’ ’   According to accounts, the firm started to unravel after a   whistleblower at the firm made a complaint to the SEC in July.   Rothenberg began to explain the situation to top employees. That,   along with growing financial troubles, led to a steady exodus   from the firm, as . ’ ’   Investors and employees were mainly concerned about a division   called River Studios, which was devoted to creating     content. According to the Backchannel report, as   well a person close to the firm who spoke with Business Insider,   investors were unaware that Rothenberg was funding this business   with his own money, and it was not disclosed in annual reports. ’ ’   In his letter to limited partners, Rothenberg says that an   independent accountant, FTI Consulting, is ”now analyzing our   financials and advising on best practices.” ’ ’   Backchannel and  described Rothenberg spending   a lot of time and money bolstering his image. For instance, the   firm hosted a ”Founder Field Day” at the San Francisco Giants’’   baseball stadium that featured a private set by the band Third   Eye Blind, and he attended sporting events and awards shows in   luxury boxes. ’ ’   He hired several executive assistants, a driver, and a personal   assistant, according to TechCrunch and a person who worked at the   company. ’ ’   While the costs of these events were often covered  —   in   particular, Rothenberg told Backchannel, the Field Day was   completely paid for by sponsorships  —   some investors and   employees were concerned that his attention should have been   spent more on building companies and less on these networking   events. ’ ”   Here’s the letter sent to   investors on Tuesday   morning: ”