’  ’ ’   Hillary Clinton appeared to stumble when, as her campaign   reports, she became  at a memorial for the victims of the   September 11, 2001 attacks in New York City. ’ ’   Clinton, it turns out, was recently diagnosed with pneumonia, an   infection of the lungs. Business Insider science editor Erin   Brodwin explains the common illness in detail . ’ ’   It shouldn’’t surprise anyone that a person with   pneumonia, standing outside in a full suit, would have a   health episode. But Politico’’s Glenn Thrush and Brianna Ehley    that a ”person in her orbit” said it’’s   difficult to convince Clinton to drink enough water as she goes   about her busy day. ”The real issue is chronic dehydration,   exacerbated by her lung problem,” they wrote. ’ ’   If Clinton indeed does not enjoy drinking water, she might be   pleased to learn that there are a number of drinks at least as   hydrating as water. ’ ”   A March  in   the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition examined the impacts   of 13 drinks on subjects’ hydration levels two hours after   consuming them. ” ’   This chart lays out the results: ’ ’  ’ ’   The key takeaway: Several drinks, including orange juice,     and skim milk are more hydrating over a span of a   couple hours than water. The researchers suggest their fats and   other nutrients cause them to process more slowly through the   stomach, causing their fluids to remain in your body longer. ’ ”   An important caveat: This study is only definitive for relatively   small amounts consumed over short periods. While lagers and   coffees seem to produce similar results over a   timespan,   we wouldn’t recommend trying to subsist   on either   liquid drug without at least asking your doctor about it first. ” ”   But the study drives home an important point. While staying   hydrated is critical, and it’s wonderful to drink plenty of water    —   which can hydrate us without any calories or strange artificial   sweeteners  —   plain old water is not the only way to fend off   dehydration. Other drinks will do, and even things like  help you stay hydrated throughout the day. Water   alone is not the only way. ”