’  ’ ’   For several years, Norwegian Air has teased the flying public   with promises of $69 tickets to cross the Atlantic. ’ ’   Now it looks like the cheap tickets for which we have pined for   so long may finally be within reach. ’ ’   According to Norwegian Air chief commercial officer Thomas   Ramdahl, his airline is awaiting the aircraft needed for the $69   flights.  ’ ”   That’s because the first of the 100  airliners Norwegian Air   ordered to operate those flights won’t be ready for delivery   until 2017. ” ’   The Boeing 737 Max 8 is expected to enter service with launch   partner Southwest Airlines during the third quarter of 2017.   However, Boeing told  that the planes could be ready for delivery as   early as March.  ’ ’ told Business Insider that his airline   plans to make an announcement around November or December of   this year with firm details of the $69 fares.  ’ ’   ”I can promise you that you will see   flights on   the 737Max next year,” Ramdahl told us in an interview last   week. ”And that’’s when you will see the $69 fares.” ’ ’   The 737 MAX 8 features new   CFM   engines,   upgraded avionics, and aerodynamics. As as result, the new jet   offers airlines the range and performance to operate     service with the lower cost of a   jet.     ’ ’  ’ ’   Following the introduction of the 737 MAX 8, Norwegian will   introduce the first of the 30 Airbus A321neo LR airliners it has   on order in 2018. The A321neo LR will be larger than the MAX 8   and will also offer greater range than the Boeing.  ’ ’   Norwegian currently operates its   flights using a   fleet of new Boeing 787 Dreamliners. Even though the European     carrier currently do offer bargain basement prices, the   costs associated with operating the   jets make the    $100 price point unfeasible.  ’ ”   This month, Norwegian announced that, starting next summer, it   will commence flights between several major cities in the US and   Barcelona, Spain for as low as $189 per ticket one way. These   flights will be operated on the airline’s current fleet of Boeing   Dreamliners.  ” ’   In July,  in the world from the highly respected   consumer aviation website Skytrax. In addition, Norwegian won   best   airline in Europe for the fourth year in a   row.  ’