’  ’ ’   China has been one of the biggest oil battlegrounds in recent   years, with producers clawing at its coveted market share. ’ ’   Traditionally, Saudi Arabia has dominated the market, but its   exports have plateaued over the last few years. ’ ’   And this has opened a window  to get in on the action. ’ ’   ”How have the Saudis fared? Not very well. Actually, quite   miserably,” Michael Tran, a commodity strategist at RBC Capital   Markets, wrote in a recent report to clients. ’ ”   Most notably, Russia has grabbed over 215, 000 barrels a day of   China’s increased imports of 630, 000 barrels a day this year,   according to data cited by Tran. ” ”   In fact, the Saudis and the Russians have been  over the last few months for the lead in the   Chinese market. (Although it hasn’t been just the Russians; other   producers such as Venezuela and Brazil have also scooped up some   market share.) ” ’   But there has been an interesting development, with Russia and   Saudi Arabia agreeing at the   summit in China to  and to create a ”” to stabilize markets just weeks ahead of the informal   oil talks in Algiers, Algeria, September  . ’ ”   And, as Tran argued in his note, that’s notable with respect to   what’s happening with the Chinese market because: ” ”   For a visual reference, here’s a chart of Chinese crude imports   from Saudi Arabia, Russia, and Iran: ” ’  ’ ”   Notably, Saudi Arabia still has a big presence in another   desirable market, India, where it’s held onto about   of   the market share. However, Tran argues that Iran shouldn’t be   underestimated here, either. ” ’   According to his data, Iran scooped up most of India’’s growth and   more over the last three months ”by boxing out several key   competitors such as Iraq, Nigeria, and Angola.” India increased   imports by about 160, 000 barrels per day    in that   time, while Iran has increased its notional exports to India by   over 285, 000 barrels per day. ’ ’   By comparison, the Saudis only captured about 15% of what Iran   got in the same period. ’ ’   In short, Tran wrote, ”Iran is the one to watch heading into the   informal OPEC talks later this month.” ’