’  ’ ’   Does seeing the word ”evolution” in a headline make you nervous? ’ ”   It makes me nervous. Climate change may be  of the modern   era, but the charged responses to it are nothing compared to   people’s forceful responses to evolution.  ” ’    ’ ”   The hair on the back of my neck stands on end when I get near   this debate. One of my parents is a research mathematician; the   other works in a biology lab. When I was a kid they made sure to   talk about science with me, to help me see the elegance of   Darwin’s   story of life. But we also lived   in an Orthodox Jewish community, where schoolteachers   laughed off dinosaurs and space travel as fairy tales and made a   point of shutting down talk of evolution. It was the first in a   series of conflicts that turned me away from that world. ” ”   But because of where I come from, I know lots of smart,   thoughtful people who deeply believe that evolution is a crock.   (And more who believe evolution was a   process  —   along   with .) I’m   hostile to segments of the   crowd,  who would shame religious   people as fools. ” ”   That’s why I was particularly interested in  by the psychologists Dan Kahan and Keith   Stanovich, which   some older data on why people do or   do not believe in evolution. ” ’   First, the backstory. In 2015, the psychologists Will Gervais and   Ara Nornzayan asked students to answer these three   questions: ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   They argued that this shows people tend to reject evolution due   to ”bounded rationality.” That is, they see that iPhones, cars,   and artwork are products of deliberate design, and are unable to   escape their intuition that living things must be as well.  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   It turns out that high CRT scores most strongly predict that   people will stick to their cultural beliefs about evolution. So   very secular students with high CRT scores were likely to accept   evolution, and very religious students with high CRT scores were   likely to reject the science. Low CRT scores predict muddier,   less culturally coherent views. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’