’  ’ ”   Michelle Obama slammed Donald Trump on Friday over his previous   questions about President Barack Obama’s birthplace. ” ”   In a speech at George Mason University, the first lady criticized   the Republican presidential nominee’s assertions that her husband   was not born in the US, despite evidence to the contrary. ” ’   ”Then, of course, there were those who questioned, and who   continue to question for the past eight years, and up to this   very day, whether my husband was even born in this country,”   Obama said, alluding to Trump’’s questions. ”Well, during his time   in office, I think Barack has answered those questions with the   examples he set, by going high when they go low. And he’’s   answered these questions with the progress we’’ve achieved   together.” ’ ”   Obama’s comments came several hours after  that after years of publicly   questioning Obama’s birthplace, he now believes Obama was born in   the US. ” ’   During Friday’’s speech, the first lady laid into Trump’’s   temperament, calling the   magnate ”erratic” and   ”threatening,” and telling the audience that ”a president can’’t   just pop off.” ’ ’’ ’   The first lady lauded Hillary Clinton, arguing that she is one of   the most qualified people to ever seek the presidency, but also   acknowledged that many voters feel pessimistic about the way the   election has played out in the media. ’ ’   ”As you are working your heart out for Hillary, if you start to   feel tired or discouraged by all the negativity in this election.   If you want to hide under the bed until it’’s all over, I want you   to remember what’’s at stake,” Obama said, rattling off numerous   Obama administration positions that Trump has promised to roll   back. ’ ”   She also attempted to counter Trump’s vision of a worsening   America, echoing her comments at the Democratic National   Convention in Philadelphia in which she touted herself and her   husband as examples of American economic opportunity. ” ’   ”We live in a country where a girl like me from the South Side of   Chicago whose    was a slave could go to   some of the finest universities on earth. We live in a country   where a biracial kid from Hawaii named Barack Obama, the son of a   single mother, can become president,” Obama said, citing the   ability for immigrants to come to the US and achieve economic   success. ’ ”   Obama’s speech came as the Clinton campaign deployed     surrogates to key battleground states amid the Democratic   presidential nominee’s sinking poll numbers. ”