’  ’ ’   Former US Defense Secretary Robert Gates is having doubts about   both Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump. ’ ”   Gates, who has served under eight US presidents, including George   W. Bush and Barack Obama, over the course of 50 years, said there   is still too much that we do not know about Clinton’s and Trump’s     positions. ” ’   ”Neither candidate has seriously addressed how he or she thinks   about the military, the use of military force, the criteria they   would apply before sending that force into battle, or broader   questions of peace and war,” Gates  published on Friday. ’ ’   Gates noted that both the Democratic and Republican presidential   nominees have largely stuck to speaking in generalities about the   complex issues they would face after being sworn into office. ’ ”   Those issues, Gates asserted, are numerous and fraught with   potential trap doors. Among them,  North Korea’s  Russian President  Iran’s aggression, and   the   unrest in the Middle East, which is compounded   by   terrorism . ” ’  ’ ’   According to Gates, dealing with China in particular ”requires a   president with strategic acumen and vision, nuance, deft   diplomatic and political skill.” He suggested that such qualities   are lost on a presidential candidate like Donald Trump. ’ ’   Writing about the   mogul’’s hawkish position on China,   Gates said, ”All we really know is Mr. Trump’s intention to   launch a trade war with a country holding over $1 trillion in   U. S. debt.” ’ ’   He took a swipe at Hillary Clinton’’s opposition to the     Partnership  —   a trade agreement she initially   endorsed  —   ”the failure of which would hand China an easy   political and economic win,” Gates wrote. ’ ’   But Gates saved his most searing rebukes for Trump, who has built   the   arm of his presidential campaign on bluster   and innuendo  —   the likes of which have . He called him ”beyond   repair” on the issue of national security. ’ ’   While noting that both Clinton and Trump have credibility issues   on foreign policy, Gates added that ”Donald Trump is in a league   of his own” in that regard. ’ ’   Trump  in response: ”I   never met [him]. He knows nothing about me. But look at the   results under his guidance   a total disaster!” ’