’  ’ ”   Billionaire investor Ray Dalio told a hedge fund conference   on Tuesday that the Federal Reserve doesn’t need to raise   interest rates now. ” ”   A note sent to Bridgewater Associates’ investors on the same   day further explains why the firm thinks the Fed should hold   off. ” ’   The note warns that raising rates during a deleveraging, or   selling off of debt, could crush the economic recovery. ’ ’   ”If it were us, we would not take the risk the Fed appears to be   moving toward,” the note said. ”Cyclical conditions point   modestly but not strongly toward tightening, and the secular   backdrop screams that the risks of tightening prematurely   outweigh the risks of falling behind.” ’ ”   Bridgewater’s Greg Jensen, Phil Salinger, and Alan Keegan wrote   the note, a copy of which was obtained by Business Insider.   Bridgewater is the world’s biggest hedge fund firm, managing   about $150 billion in assets. ” ’   In the note, Bridgewater flagged several cases of tightenings   during deleveragings: the UK in 1931, the US in 1937, the UK   in the 1950s, Japan in 2000 and 2006, and Europe in 2011. ’ ’   ”In nearly every case, the tightening crushed the recovery,   forcing the central bank to quickly reverse course and keep rates   close to zero for many more years,” the note said.  ’ ’   In those cases, markets have tended to tank, recoveries fade, and   inflation drop. ’ ’   More specifically, the average rate hike during a deleveraging   ”caused, over the next two years, a 16% drawdown in equities, a   2% increase in economic slack and a 1% fall in inflation.” ’ ’   The note continued: ’ ’   On the other hand, in cycles where the economy was not   deleveraging, ”economic activity continued to strengthen,   inflation kept edging up and asset returns stayed strong,   allowing the Fed to keep tightening.” ’ ”   Bridgewater said that, if it were the Fed, it would not raise   rates faster than what is priced in. That’s because what is   priced in is at a much slower pace than what the Fed has recently   projected. ” ’  ’ ’   ”Normally, a mistake in monetary policy is not that big a deal   because it can be reversed,” the note said. ’ ’   ”The risk now is higher than normal because a tightening   mistake is harder to reverse today when the ability to ease is   more limited.” ’ ’   Russell Sherman, a spokesman for Bridgewater at external     firm Prosek Partners, declined to   comment.  ’