’  ’ ’   What’s all the fuss about the   home speaker that   Amazon is due to  and Germany in late September? ’ ’   This gadget has been available in the US for over a year and has   proven a minor hit, with sales estimates between . ’ ’   But these figures belie the potential impact this kind of   artificial intelligence device could have on our lives in the   near future. ’ ’   Echo doesn’t just let you switch on your music by voice command. ’ ’   It’s the first of what will be several types of smart home   appliances that work beyond simple tasks like playing music or   turning on a light. ’ ’   It uses an artificial intelligence assistant app called Alexa to   allow users to access the information and services of the   internet and control personal organisation tools. ’ ’   You can order a pizza or a taxi, or check the weather or your   diary, all just by speaking to Alexa. In this way, it is similar   to Apple’s Siri but has  that   make it significantly more accurate than past devices in   understanding and executing commands  —   and from anywhere in your   home that it can hear you. ’ ’   I’ve been living with Amazon Echo for a year now, having imported   it from the US via eBay. It’s an astonishing piece of kit that   has to be experienced to see exactly why it has the potential to   make the idea of a personal assistant smart home hub successful.   It’s not surprising that Amazon’s CEO Jeff Bezos has said it is   potentially the  after its   marketplace, cloud services and mobile devices. ’ ’   Many of us have already become used to  software and     requests on our mobile devices. But Amazon started   developing a   microphone and more sophisticated   voice recognition system a full 12 months before its competitors   and has gained a . The big difference with   other AI assistants is that instead of a single piece of   software, Alexa uses 300 of its own apps (which Amazon calls   “skills”) to provide the device’s different capabilities. This   creates a system that is far more integrated and sophisticated   yet simple to use with minimal setup. ’ ’   This is a very significant development in  the  which is coming as we move   from PCs and mobile devices to the era of the  when computer chips will be   in objects all around us. Echo is arguably the first successful   product to bridge that gap. It’s working voice recognition   service and connected sensors essentially link your home to a   marketplace supply chain that services many (if not all) of your   needs. ’ ’   It’s still early days for this kind of device, but it raises the   question how other shops, banks and entertainment companies might   need to respond to the technology because it could effectively   place a   between them and their customers. If you want   to order something, instead of going to the company that provides   it directly, you just go to Amazon through your Echo. It’s what   the IT industry might call an “aggregator” or a “service broker   platform”. This is the   of but   goal of   many tech companies who want to become the service provider of   all other services. ’ ’  ’ ’   The US feedback on Echo has been  from . ’ ’   In my experience, the argument that it doesn’t have a screen and   therefore is harder to interact with disappears when you actually   use the device. ’ ’   The voice interaction is natural and if there is a problem with   the system it’s more to do with learning the range of “skills”   the device can perform than getting them to work. ’ ’   A device that is constantly listening for your commands   (although, the company is at pains to make clear, not the rest of   your unrelated conversations) will no doubt raise concerns about   privacy, just as all our smart devices do. ’ ’   Echo and Alexa work through the existing security protocols that   many people already use when online shopping or accessing cloud   web services through Amazon. ’ ’   But how secure these systems really are  —   and their potential for   misuse  —   may come under greater scrutiny once Amazon (or any   smart home company) has access not just to our bank details but   our private conversations, too. ’ ’   Echo represents a new kind of interface that will likely make   voice activated services, along with the breaking concepts of   virtual and augmented reality, the cutting edge way we interact   with computers in 2017 and beyond. ’ ’   Google have already launched Google Home in the US (a full year   late) and other firms are developing . ’ ’   The astonishing thing about this is that it’s a vision of the   future that’s arriving much sooner that expected. ’ ’   We’re still far from general artificial intelligence, with   machines fully able to think and perform like humans, but the   days of the keyboard and mouse are numbered. ’