’  ’ ’   TULSA, Okla. (AP)  —   A Tulsa police officer shot and killed a   black man who ignored repeated requests to put up his hands   before reaching into an SUV that was stalled in the middle of a   street, the police department said. ’ ’   Terrence Crutcher, 40, died at the hospital where he was taken   after he was shot by the officer at around 8 p. m. Friday, police   said in a news release. ’ ’   Police spokeswoman Jeanne MacKenzie earlier told reporters that   two officers were walking toward the stalled SUV when Crutcher   approached them from the side of the road. ’ ’   ”He refused to follow commands given by the officers,” MacKenzie   said. ”They continued to talk to him, he continued not to listen   and follow any commands. As they got closer to the vehicle, he   reached inside the vehicle and at that time there was a Taser   deployment and a short time later there was one shot fired.” ’ ”   MacKenzie said that as of 9 p. m. police hadn’t searched the SUV   and didn’t know if there was a weapon inside. ” ’’ ’   MacKenzie did not immediately respond to phone messages left   Saturday seeking further information. ’ ”   The officers’ names and races weren’t released. The one who shot   Crutcher will be placed on leave, which is routine in cases of     shootings. The county district attorney’s office   will determine if the shooting was justified, MacKenzie said   Friday. ” ’   Online court records show Terrence Crutcher of Tulsa with the   same date of birth as the man who was shot pleaded no contest in   1996 to carrying a concealed weapon and resisting an officer and   was given a   suspended sentence. ’ ’   His only other court records were for traffic violations, the   most recent occurring in 2005. ’ ”   Tulsa police officers don’t currently have   cameras,   although they were selected to receive a nearly $600, 000     grant for them in 2015. ” ”   MacKenzie said she believes the officers’ dash cameras might have   captured video of the shooting. ” ”   In April, a white reserve Tulsa County sheriff’s deputy was   convicted of manslaughter in the fatal shooting last year of an   unarmed black suspect who was on the ground being restrained by   officers. The deputy said he mistook his handgun for a stun gun. ” ’   The shooting led to an investigation that resulted in misdemeanor   charges against the county sheriff, who resigned and later   pleaded no contest a charge of refusal to perform official duty   and guilty to willful violation of the law. ’