’  ’ ’   Although North Korea may bear the brunt of the jokes on the   international stage, it wasn’t always like this. ’ ’   On January 21, 1968, 15 years after the Korean War, North Korean   commandos were  attempting to assassinate South Korean   President Park  . ’ ’   Dressed as South Korean soldiers, these operators managed to   cross the border and come a few hundred yards shy of the Blue   House, the traditional residence of South Korea’s presidents. ’ ’   After an intense  with US and South Korean troops, 29   of the 31 commandos were either killed or took their own lives. ’ ’   Of the surviving two, one escaped back to North Korea   to eventually become a general, while the other one was captured,   pardoned, and eventually became a Presbyterian minister in   South Korea. ’ ’   In retaliation for North Korea’s attempts, South Korea  their own assassination plot three   months later. After assembling 31 of their own recruits, most of   them petty criminals, Seoul created Unit 684. The unit was   reportedly tasked with traveling to Pyongyang to kill   North Korean President Kim Il Sung. ’ ’  ’ ’   The   band of recruits, who were taken from prisons and the   streets, were shipped off to the island of Silmido in the Yellow   Sea after being promised wages and jobs should they accomplish   their mission, sources . ’ ”   ’’They were the kind who would get into street fights a lot,’’   explained Yang Dong Su, one of the guards, in a  from 2004. ” ”   The unit’s training regimen was supposedly intense: Over 20% of   the recruits died during training, and South Korean courts later    that it had “violated their basic human   rights. ” ” ’   However, all that training eventually came to naught. After   warming relations between the two Koreas, the mission was   aborted. ’ ’  ’ ’   Frustrated after three years of training and no authorization to   leave the isolated island, the recruits revolted. Yang   claims that in the morning of the mutiny, much of   the training cadre were still intoxicated from drinking   for the first time in three years on the island.  ’ ’   ”For the first time, the night before the uprising, about 10 of   us left the island and brought large quantities of alcohol back   to the military compound,” he  in The Korea Herald. ”And we drank with   . .. permission.” ’ ”   After breaking into a captain’s room, the recruits killed   their officer by hitting his forehead with a hammer before   continuing to kill all but six of the training officers.  ” ’   Eventually, the renegade unit got off the island and   hijacked a bus to head towards Seoul; however, after being   stopped by authorities, they blew themselves up with hand   grenades. ’ ”   ’’They revolted because they felt that they were never going to   get the chance to go to North Korea and that they would never be   allowed to leave the island,’’  Yang, who was shot in the neck during   the revolt. ’’They were in despair. ’’ ” ’   Four of the recruits that managed to survive were found guilty by   a military trial and then executed. ’ ’  ’ ’   Transparency surrounding Unit 684 has been an issue. For decades,   South Korea has denied claims of the unit’s existence and there   were even reports that the government  the recruits ”armed communist   agents” after their revolt.   ’ ’   It was not until 2006 that the government  an official report of the   unit and their training program. And it wasn’t until 2010   that the Seoul Central District Court  that the family members of Unit 684’s recruits were   entitled to an equivalent of $217, 000 in damages, down from   their original claim of $574, 000, for the deaths of the recruits   and the subsequent emotional suffering. ’ ’   “The Silmido agents were not informed of the level of danger   involved with their training   …    ” the ruling . ’ ’   But there exists some skepticism behind the alleged harsh   treatment of the recruits. Kim   the longest serving   platoon leader at Silmido, recounts his tenure on the   island. ’ ’   ”We never treated [them] badly,” Kim  to The Korea Herald. ”They were not   there by force. They applied to join to be trained.” ’