’  ’ ’   The arrest of a New Jersey terrorism suspect was the culmination   of classic police work, bystander intervention, and incompetence   on behalf of the suspect himself. ’ ’   Police in Linden, New Jersey,  after a shootout late Monday morning. ’ ’ suspected of being involved in three   incidents throughout the weekend  —   a bombing along the route of a   New Jersey charity race Saturday morning, a bombing Saturday   night in New York City that injured 29 people, and the planting   of additional devices in Elizabeth, New Jersey, on Sunday night. ’ ”   It seems like whatever plot Rahami was trying to carry out didn’t   go as planned. ” ”   First, on Saturday morning, the bomb that went off at the race in   New Jersey detonated while no bystanders were around, so no one   was injured and no structures were damaged. And the device didn’t   work to its full potential  —   it consisted of three pipe bombs   tied together, only one of which detonated. ” ’   The timing was also off. The start of the race had coincidentally   been delayed, so the bomb exploded 30 minutes after the   race would have started,  Reuters. ’ ”   Then, later that night in New York City, a bomb went off near the   intersection of West 23rd Street and 6th Avenue in Manhattan.   Because the bomb had been placed in a dumpster, which had thick   metal sides, the explosion didn’t kill anyone, and nearly all   of the 29 injured escaped without any serious damage.   Officials said the device had been packed with BBs and ball   bearings. ” ’   Another device was then found on nearby West 27th Street. ’ ”   The suspect failed on multiple levels here  —   he was caught on   surveillance video planting the bombs, the second bomb didn’t   detonate, and the cellphone taped to the bomb provided clues to   authorities that helped identify him. Police also found a   fingerprint that helped identify Rahami. ” ’  ’ ’   Then, on Sunday, authorities said    abandoned outside a restaurant in Elizabeth, New Jersey, and   reported it. The bag, which contained five pipe bombs, did not   explode. ’ ’   ”They probably saved hundreds of people,” Mayor Christian   Bollwage said. ’ ”   Shortly after that, police publicly identified Rahami as a   suspect. Authorities blasted out emergency cellphone   notifications with the suspect’s name and identifying   information, and the FBI released a photo of Rahami, which was   broadcast widely on the news. ” ”   This is what eventually led to Rahami’s arrest. ” ”   Harinder Bains, who owns Merdie’s Tavern in Linden, New   Jersey, had been watching the news and saw Rahami’s photo,    CNN. Later on Monday, he went over to his bar   and found a man sleeping in the doorway who looked like Rahami,   so he called police. ” ’   An officer arrived an identified him, and after an exchange of   gunfire, Rahami was taken into custody. ’