’  ’ ”   Donald Trump’s campaign on Tuesday responded to outrage over a   tweet Trump’s son posted comparing Syrian refugees to poisoned   Skittles. ” ’ Donald Trump Jr. railed against the US   immigration system, contending it had been stunted by political   correctness. He compared supposed terrorists hidden among Syrian   refugees to poisoned Skittles in a candy bowl. ’ ’   After  the tweet for mischaracterizing the refugee vetting   process, senior communications adviser Jason Miller brushed off   criticism, calling Trump Jr. ”a tremendous asset to the   campaign.” ’ ’   ”America has become less safe under Hillary Clinton and Barack   Obama, and Clinton’’s planned 550% increase in Syrian refugees is   a dangerous proposal that will put American lives at risk,”   Miller said. ’ ’   He added: ”Speaking the truth might upset those who would rather   be politically correct than safe, but the American people want a   change, and only Donald Trump will do what’’s needed to protect   us.” ’ ’’ ”   Other Trump campaign   also on Tuesday defended Trump   Jr. ’s comments. ” ”   Speaking with MSNBC, Trump’s running mate, Indiana Gov. Mike   Pence, cited FBI Director James Comey’s claim that it’s not   always easy to run thorough background checks on every refugee,   though Comey has noted that federal agencies . ” ’   ”It is remarkable to me to see the level of outrage about a   metaphor used by Don Jr. when Hillary Clinton is calling for a   550% increase in the Syrian refugee program,” . ”All the while our FBI and public safety   officials tell us we can’’t know for sure who those people are   coming into this country.” ’ ”   Many immigration advocates have argued that the US’s refugee   acceptance program is one of the most difficult ways for a   terrorist to enter the US. Refugees from areas with terrorist   activity are required to undergo a lengthy vetting process that   includes a background check and interviews. ” ’   ”It is extremely unlikely that someone who is a terrorist will be   sent through the refugee resettlement program,” Greg Chen, the   director of advocacy at the American Immigration Lawyers   Association, . ’ ’   ”It takes a great deal of time, and it wouldn’’t make sense for   someone who is a terrorist for someone to go through that   process,” Chen said. ”There are going to be easier ways for a   terrorist to try to infiltrate, rather than going through the   refugee resettlement program.” ’