’  ’ ’   NEW YORK (AP)  —   Bombing suspect Ahmad Khan Rahami was charged   Tuesday with planting a series of explosives in New York and New   Jersey, including one that injured more than two dozen people   when it blew up on a busy Manhattan street. ’ ”   A  was unsealed   Tuesday as more details emerged about the   U. S.   citizen’s past, including the disclosure that the FBI had looked   into him in 2014 but came up with nothing. ” ’   Before the federal charges were filed, Rahmani, 28, was already   being held on $5. 2 million bail, charged with the attempted   murder of police officers during the shootout that led to his   capture Monday outside a bar in Linden, New Jersey. ’ ”   It wasn’t immediately clear whether Rahami had a lawyer   who could comment on the charges. He remained hospitalized with   gunshot wounds to the leg, forearm and shoulder. ” ’   Federal agents have attempted to question Rahami in the   hospital. But Rep. Tom MacArthur,  . J. who received a   classified briefing from the FBI, said Rahami was not   cooperating. ’ ”   The FBI’s 2014 inquiry began after his father expressed concerns   his son might be a terrorist, law enforcement officials said   Tuesday. During the inquiry, the father backed away from talk of   terrorism and told investigators that he simply meant his son was   hanging out with the wrong crowd, including gang members, and   acting like a thug, the officials said. ” ’   In any case, the FBI checked its databases and other sources and   closed the inquiry in a matter of weeks after seeing nothing   tying the   U. S. citizen to terrorism, three law   enforcement officials said. ’ ’   Also Tuesday, investigators disclosed that   when Rahami was shot and captured, he had a notebook   with him that contained extremist ramblings. ’ ’  ’ ’   One bloodstained section contained references to both Anwar     the   Muslim cleric who was killed in a   2011 drone strike and whose preaching has inspired other acts of   violence, and Nidal Hasan, the former Army officer who went on a   deadly shooting rampage in 2009 at Fort Hood, Texas. ’ ”   Investigators are looking into Rahami’s overseas   travel, including a visit to Pakistan a few years ago, and want   to know whether he received any money or training from extremist   organizations. ” ”   Rahami’s father, Mohammad Rahami, spoke with the FBI   after the younger Rahami was charged in 2014 with   stabbing his brother, according to the officials, who were not   authorized to discuss the investigation and spoke to The   Associated Press on condition of anonymity. Rahami was   not prosecuted in the stabbing; a grand jury declined to indict   him. ” ’   Rahami’’s father told reporters Tuesday outside the family’’s     restaurant in Elizabeth, New Jersey, that he called   the FBI at the time because Rahami ”was doing real   bad,” having stabbed the brother and hit his mother. ’ ’   ”But they checked, almost two months, and they say, ’’He’’s OK,   he’’s clear, he’’s not terrorist. ’’ Now they say he’’s a terrorist,”   the father said. Asked whether he thought his son was a   terrorist, he said: ”No. And the FBI, they know that.” ’ ’  ’ ”   The disclosure of the father’s contacts with the FBI raises   questions about whether there was anything more law enforcement   could have done at the time to determine   whether Rahami had terrorist aspirations. ” ’   That issue arose after the Orlando massacre in June, when FBI   Director James Comey said agents a few years earlier had looked   into the gunman, Omar Mateen, but did not find enough information   to pursue charges or keep him under investigation. ’ ’   In Rahami’’s case, the law enforcement official said the   FBI had opened up an ”assessment,” the least intrusive form of an   FBI inquiry. Justice Department guidelines restrict the types of   actions agents may take; they cannot, for instance, record phone   calls without obtaining a higher level of approval or developing   more grounds for suspicion. ’ ’   ”In August 2014, the FBI initiated an assessment   of Ahmad Rahami based upon comments made by his   father after a domestic dispute that were subsequently reported   to authorities,” the bureau said in a statement. ”The FBI   conducted internal database reviews, interagency checks and   multiple interviews, none of which revealed ties to terrorism.” ’ ”   It was not clear from the FBI’s statement how the contact between   the elder Rahami and the FBI began. Nor was it clear   exactly what he supposedly said about his son having terrorist   inclinations. ” ’   The younger Rahami worked as an unarmed night guard for   two months in 2011 at an AP administrative technology office in   Cranbury, New Jersey. At the time, he was employed by Summit   Security, a private contractor. ’ ’   AP global security chief Danny Spriggs said he learned this week   that Rahami worked night shifts at the AP building and   often engaged colleagues in long political discussions,   expressing sympathy for the Taliban and disdain for U. S. military   action in Afghanistan. Rahami left that job in 2011   because he wanted to take a trip to Afghanistan, Spriggs said. ’ ’  ’ ”   AP spokesman Paul Colford said the AP told law enforcement   officials about Rahami’s work at the Cranbury facility. ” ”   Summit’s vice president of security services, Daniel Sepulveda,   said Rahami last did work for the company in 2011 and   left the job because he wanted an extended leave that didn’t   coincide with his work schedule. ” ”   Sepulveda wouldn’t discuss where else Rahami had   security assignments but said he was unaware of any complaints   about his conduct. He said he had all licenses required by New   Jersey law. ” ”   William Sweeney, the FBI’s assistant director in New York, said   on Monday that that at the time of the   bombing, Rahami was apparently not on the FBI’s radar.   Nor were Afghan intelligence officials aware of   either Rahami or his family, said Mohammad Masoom   Stanekzai,   of the Afghan National Directorate of   Security. ” ”   The bombing investigation began when a pipe bomb blew up Saturday   morning in Seaside Park, New Jersey, before a charity race to   benefit Marines. No one was injured. Then a       bomb exploded Saturday night in New York’s   Chelsea section, wounding 31 people, none seriously. An   unexploded   bomb was found blocks away. ” ’   Late Sunday night, five explosive devices were discovered in a   trash can at an Elizabeth train station. ’ ’   Photographic and forensic evidence has tied all the incidents   to Rahami, MacArthur said. ’ ’   Rahami provided investigators with a wealth of clues that   led to his arrest just 50 hours after the first explosion,   including fingerprints and DNA at the scene of the Manhattan   bombing and a clear   image of his face near   the site of the blast, according to law enforcement officials. ’ ’ ’