’  ’ ”   The Washington Post’s David Fahrenthold  about Donald Trump’s charitable foundation,   reporting that the Republican presidential nominee used money   from the Trump Foundation to pay legal fees related to his   businesses. ” ’   The report, citing tax records, said Trump had not made a single   donation to his charity since 2008 and sometimes used money from   others through the foundation to pay off legal expenses. ’ ’   The money relating to those expenses, which reportedly amounted   to $258, 000 from the Trump Foundation, may have violated   ” ” laws that prohibit nonprofit leaders from using   charity money for   or the benefit of their     businesses, according to The Post. ’ ’   ”I represent 700 nonprofits a year, and I’’ve never encountered   anything so brazen,” Jeffrey Tenenbaum, who advises charities at   the Venable law firm in Washington, told The Post, later   describing the details as ”really shocking.” ’ ’   ”If he’’s using other people’’s money  —   run through his foundation    —   to satisfy his personal obligations, then that’’s about as   blatant an example of   [as] I’’ve seen in a while,” he   continued. ’ ’’ ”   Trump could be found in violation of   rules from the   Internal Revenue Service, The Post said, which could require him   to pay penalties or reimburse the foundation’s money. He is also   facing scrutiny from the New York attorney general’s office, The   Post added, which could find him in violation of the state’s   charity laws. ” ”   Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton’s campaign fired off a   response to the Post story soon after it was published. ” ’   ”Clearly the Trump Foundation is as much a charitable   organization as Trump University is an institute of higher   education,” Christina Reynolds, the campaign’’s deputy   communications director, said in a statement. ”Trump’s version of   charity is taking money from others to settle his own legal   issues and buy at least two pictures of himself, which experts   say is a clear violation of laws governing charitable   organizations.” ’ ’   ”Once again, Trump has proven himself a fraud who believes the   rules don’’t apply to him,” she continued. ”It’’s past time for him   to release his tax returns to show whether his tax issues extend   to his own personal finances.” ’ ”   Trump’s campaign did not respond to a request for comment from   The Post. ”