’  ’ ’   One person suffered   injuries after being shot   Wednesday in a second night of unrest in Charlotte, North   Carolina, officials said, as police officers in riot gear fired   tear gas and rubber bullets to disperse a demonstration against   the fatal police shooting of a black man who officers said had   refused their orders to drop a handgun. ’ ’   An earlier report from Charlotte city officials that the wounded   man died  some time later. The city said the   victim was on life support. ’ ’   Charlotte Police Chief Kerr Putney initially confirmed the   fatality, but he did not identify the person or say whether the   person was participating in the protests. ’ ’   Gov. Pat McCrory declared a state of emergency late Wednesday   night and said he deployed the National Guard to assist local law   enforcement in handling the protests. ’ ’   The latest trouble began with a peaceful rally that turned   violent after several hundred demonstrators marched through   downtown with brief stops at a black church, the police   headquarters, and a large entertainment venue called the   EpiCentre. ’ ”   As they approached downtown Charlotte’s central intersection,   protesters confronted a column of patrol cars and officers lining   the road about a block from the Omni Charlotte Hotel and began to   surround groups of police officers and their vehicles. ” ’   At that point, the police unleashed volleys of rubber bullets,   tear gas, and   grenades to disperse the protesters, who   began hurling fireworks and debris at officers outside the hotel. ’ ’   Protesters were also seen looting a convenience store after   smashing its windows. ’ ”   The team store of the NBA’s Charlotte Hornets was also broken   into during the protests. ” ”   Images on social media showed several of the store’s windows had   been broken, and police officers were stationed outside the   storefront. ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tHornets team store at arena looted    ’ ’   Sixteen officers were injured late Tuesday and early Wednesday as   police officers in riot gear clashed with demonstrators who   hurled stones, set fires, and briefly blocked an interstate   highway. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”We are tired of people, especially police, killing our black   men,” Blanche Penn, a longtime community activist, said at   Wednesday evening’’s rally, where the mood began as resolute but   peaceful. ”Charlotte has always been quiet. But now it’’s time to   be loud.” ’ ”   Widely differing accounts of Tuesday’s shooting emerged the next   day. The police said Keith Scott, 43, was armed and ignoring   officers’ orders when he was gunned down, while the victim’s   family and a witness said he was holding a book, not a weapon. ” ”   Authorities have not released any video of the incident, but the   city’s mayor said they planned to. ” ’   Scott’’s wife, Rakeyia, issued a statement describing her family   as ”devastated” and appealing for calm, adding, ”we have more   questions than answers about Keith’’s death.” ’ ”   Tuesday’s disturbances in Charlotte unfolded as demonstrators in   Tulsa, Oklahoma, demanded the arrest of a police officer seen in   video last week fatally shooting an unarmed black man who had his   hands in clear view at the time. ” ’   The deaths were the latest incidents to raise questions of racial   bias in US law enforcement, and they stoked a national debate on   policing ahead of the presidential election in November.   President Barack Obama spoke by telephone on Wednesday with the   mayors of Charlotte and Tulsa, a White House official said. ’ ’  ’ ’     killings by the police in New York, Chicago, and   Ferguson, Missouri, along with other cities, have sparked more   than two years of largely peaceful protests punctuated by days of   unrest and arson while giving rise to the Black Lives Matter     movement. ’ ’   US Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton said such   killings were unbearable. Her Republican rival, Donald Trump,   questioned what the Tulsa officer was thinking in shooting a man   he said appeared to pose no imminent threat. ’ ”   Investigations have been opened in both cities, and the US   Justice Department has started a separate investigation into the   Oklahoma incident to see whether officers’ use of force amounted   to a   violation. ” ”   Putney, the Charlotte police chief, said officers had surrounded   Scott’s car in an apartment complex parking lot Tuesday afternoon   after seeing him with a handgun. Scott was shot by a black police   officer after Scott exited the car and disregarded orders to drop   his weapon, Putney said. ” ’   ”We did not find a book,” Putney told a news conference. ”We did   find a weapon.” ’ ’   Local resident Taheshia Williams said she saw the incident from   her balcony about 100 feet (30 meters) away and watched Scott get   out of his car with his hands raised. ’ ’   ”Hands up. No gun. When he got out of the car, a book fell off   his lap,” Williams told reporters on Wednesday. She said she   heard Scott ask the police what he had done wrong, could not hear   their reply, then heard four shots. ’ ’   ”It’’s a  . They made a mistake, and they’’re doing their   best to make sure they cover up that mistake,” she said. ’ ’  ’ ’   Black activists and pastors called for an economic boycott of the   city, and the American Civil Liberties Union urged the police to   release body and dashboard camera footage from the incident. ’ ’   The police said officer Brentley Vinson was in plainclothes when   he shot Scott and was not wearing a body camera. ’ ’   Mayor Jennifer Roberts told CNN that she had not seen any video   from the scene but that Putney told her footage was recorded by   cameras worn by other police officers and mounted on patrol cars. ’ ’   ”The chief is very open to showing that video . .. not just to   elected officials, but also to community leaders,” she said. ”We   have done that in the past. We plan to do that this time.” ’ ’   Video of the shooting in Oklahoma, meanwhile, has fueled calls   for the arrest of Tulsa police officer Betty Shelby, who is   white, for the killing on Friday of Terence Crutcher, 40, whose   sport utility vehicle blocked a road after breaking down. ’ ”   Shelby’s lawyer has said she had feared for her life, believing   Crutcher was reaching into his vehicle for a weapon. Lawyers for   the Crutcher family released still images from police videos   showing the car window was shut and said the use of force was not   justified. ” ’ (Additional Reuters reporting by Lenzy   in   Tulsa, Okla. Colleen Jenkins in   N. C. Emily   Flitter in Cleveland, Amanda Becker in Orlando, Fla. and Gina   Cherelus and Laila Kearney in New York; Writing by Jon Herskovitz   and Daniel Wallis; Editing by James Dalgleish and Alan   Crosby) ’