’  ’ ”   On Wednesday, Heather Bresch, the CEO of Mylan, which makes the   EpiPen, got a grilling in Congress over the 500% increase in the   price of her company’s lifesaving drug that’s used to treat   severe allergic reactions. ” ’   She did not go prepared. ’ ’   ”You knew what this hearing was about. I’’m asking questions that   if you’’re the CEO I think that you would know,” said ranking   member Rep. Elijah Cummings, a Democrat from Maryland. ’ ”   One specific question she couldn’t answer is one that   Massachusetts Democratic Sen. Elizabeth Warren wants answered   ASAP for more companies than just Mylan. ” ’   Cummings asked her how much Mylan spent on patient assistance   programs. ’ ”   Last month, Warren sent  to Bresch signed by 20 senators,   including former presidential candidate Bernie Sanders   ( ) demanding to know more about Mylan’s patient   assistance programs. ” ’   Bresch had said the company would  to give more people access to the drug    —   something you see across the drug industry these days. ’ ”   Warren and a number of other politicians, including Cummings,   believe that pharmaceutical companies use patient assistance   programs to preserve drug prices. The companies say they’re   helping people, but it’s just an excuse for them not to lower   prices. ” ’   ”These changes will help some customers who are struggling to   afford EpiPens. Your discount programs, however, represent a     industry tactic to keep costs high through a complex   shell game,” Warren wrote in her letter. ’ ’   ”When patients receive     assistance for expensive   drugs, they may be insulated from price hikes, but insurance   companies, the government, and employers still bear the burden of   these excessive prices. In turn, those costs are eventually   passed on to consumers in the form of higher premiums.” ’ ”   In Mylan’s case, Warren wants a breakdown of: how many people   have used Mylan’s coupons and programs, how much they save, how   many people Mylan expects will save money now that the programs   have been expanded, how much discounted EpiPens have cost   insurers, how consumers are directed to these assistance options,    and more. ” ”   But, as we said, Bresch had no specifics on that at the hearing.   (She also didn’t show up with some of the documents Congress   asked for regarding how much Mylan makes on EpiPens.) ” ”   That probably means this isn’t over for Congress or Bresch. ” ” For more background on the EpiPen mess, listen to BI’s Josh   Barro and Linette Lopez talk about it on their podcast, Hard   Pass: ” ’ ’