’  ’ ’   Hedge fund legend Leon Cooperman said in a short call with   investors Wednesday that he intends to fight charges of insider   trading. ’ ’   Cooperman, a hedge fund industry legend, was  along with his hedge fund   firm, $5. 5 billion Omega Advisors.  ’ ”   Cooperman, 73, said the feds offered him a settlement on the   insider trading charges but he refused it so that he could   protect his name and that of his hedge fund. He didn’t say   how much the settlement would cost, but said that it was less   than what he donates to charity each year. ” ’   ”It took me 50 years of hard work and playing by the rules to get   where I got,” Cooperman said with a tone of defiance, adding that   he wouldn’’t let the feds ruin his legacy. Cooperman is known for   his    story, growing up in the South Bronx as the   son of a plumber to becoming one of the industry’’s most   successful players. He is worth $3. 1 billion, according to   Forbes. ’ ”   The insider trading charges surround a position Omega allegedly   took in Atlas Pipeline in 2010 based on inside information about   the sale of one of Atlas’ holdings, Elk City. The Securities and   Exchange Commission accused Cooperman and Omega of benefiting   from that information. ” ’’ ’   Rather, Cooperman said that the Atlas Pipeline holding had   actually generated big losses for the firm. ”I’’m embarrassed   to say the losses were gigantic,” he said. ’ ’   ”We are being sued. ..even though we made no money from an   increase from the stock price after the announcement,” Cooperman   said during the call. ’ ’   Earlier Wednesday, Cooperman sent a  to investors in which he defended   himself and the trades. In the letter, Cooperman said that Omega   was not long, or bullish on an increase in Atlas’’ stock price,   before the announcement. To be ”long” means to be betting that   the value of a security will go up. ’ ’   The SEC alleges that Cooperman tried to coverup that he had   spoken with an executive at Atlas Pipeline about the impending   sale of Elk City before he traded on it. On the call,   Cooperman said that that accusation was false.  ’ ’   Cooperman also restated an earlier promise that he would   voluntarily return money to his investors if the SEC case became   too big of a distraction. ’ ’   Cooperman declined to take questions, on advice of his counsel,   though he said that he wished he could. ’ ’   ”I apologize for not being able to take questions,” he said   toward the end of the call, ”but we’’re paying the lawyers a lot   of money, and we’’re going to listen to the lawyers.” ’ ”   As of yesterday, Omega had posted positive returns for the year,   he added. The Omega credit fund was up 13% the Omega equity fund   was up 5% and the firm’s main fund was up 3%. ”