’  ’ ”   Wall Street dealmakers used to be sent to Hong Kong or London to   win new business. Now they’re being sent to Seattle, Atlanta, and   Denver. ” ’   Bank of America, JPMorgan, and Citigroup have been taking steps   to do more business with midsize companies in regional centers in   the US, outside the traditional hubs like New York, Houston, and   San Francisco. ’ ’   They have moved and hired dealmakers there, and they have them   focused on     companies. The potential   rewards are significant:   companies in the US and   Canada  in 2015, according to a Bank   of America Merrill Lynch presentation. ’ ”   That’s more than the fees netted in most of Asia, the Middle   East, and Latin America combined. ” ’   ”This is a key focus for us as we have developed the other areas   of our investment bank,” Christian Meissner, the head of global   corporate and investment banking at Bank of America Merrill   Lynch, told Business Insider. ”Relatively speaking, this   represents a greater opportunity than some traditional avenues of   growth.” ’ ’   Each bank cuts it slightly differently, but broadly speaking the   largest multinational corporations are serviced by the corporate   banking divisions within big global banks. These companies  —     think Apple, GE, Ford, and the like  —   have bankers crawling over   them, trying to win every last piece of business they have to   offer. ’ ’  ’ ’   The commercial banking divisions typically serve tens of   thousands of smaller (but by no means small) companies, and it is   the commercial banking clients that the banks are hoping to do   more business with. ’ ’   ”The premise behind regional investment banking starts from   extending relationships from the commercial bank,” James Roddy,   who oversees the regional investment banking and M&A business   at JPMorgan, told Business Insider. ’ ’   JPMorgan drew up plans in 2012 to focus on   banking   and now has about 50 people in the investment bank dedicated to   this group of clients, having hired local, senior, experienced   bankers in a handful of regional centers over the past three or   four years. Each location  —   including Atlanta, Dallas, and   Washington, DC  —   will typically have a managing director, an   executive director, a vice president, and an associate on the   ground. ’ ’   ”This isn’’t about doing smaller deals,” Roddy said. ”It is   working with people where we’’re already providing treasury   services or commercial banking, and we have an opportunity to   provide a full service that includes investment banking.” ’ ”   The effort is paying off. Doug Petno, the chief executive of   JPMorgan’s commercial bank, cited  from commercial banking   clients at the bank’s investor day in February. Revenue from this   client segment hit $2. 2 billion in 2015, and the bank has a     target of $3 billion. ” ’  ’ ”   It’s a similar story at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Many of   the bank’s clients told the bank they felt that it wasn’t local   enough and that they would get only occasional coverage from   investment bankers who would fly in from New York or another   major city. To remedy that, the bank has assigned about two dozen   bankers over the past couple of years to focus on this segment of   clients. ” ’   ”These are almost always existing clients of the firm,” Meissner   told Business Insider. ”We have the commercial bank, the   midmarket lending business, where we have something like 30, 000   clients across the US. What’’s new is whereas previously they   would have gotten episodic   attention, now they   have a dedicated investment banker in addition to their existing   relationship banker from commercial banking.” ’ ’   Citigroup, meanwhile, is reviewing plans to put a banker in   Denver as part of its energy coverage team, in addition to its   existing presence in New York, Chicago, Houston, San Francisco,   and Los Angeles. ’ ”   The opportunity to win business in these regional cities isn’t   new  —   it’s just that banks had been more focused chasing   opportunities elsewhere. The renewed interest in less glamorous   clients and locations comes at a time when many of these more   exotic growth markets are slowing. ” ’  ’ ’   The $8. 2 billion fee pool for US and Canadian     companies is comparable with the fees paid by companies in Latin   America, Central and Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa,   and Asia Pacific excluding Japan put together. ’ ’   ”This isn’’t a new idea; it’’s a different approach,” Meissner   said. ’ ’   Given the challenging market conditions, any area showing growth   is sure to become competitive. And sure enough, the       business is now more keenly fought over than   in the past, Roddy said. ’ ’   ”It is happening right now,” he said. ”People are waking up to   it. We’’ve been doing it for a while, so it is nice to be ahead of   the curve.” ’