’  ’ ’   Yahoo told Verizon that there had ”not been any incidents of”   security breaches that could have an adverse effect on business   earlier this month, but top executives reportedly knew it had   been hacked since July, and quite possibly further back. ’ ’   Yahoo CEO Marissa Mayer was ”aware and involved” in investigating   an apparent data breach of 200 million users since learning of a   security incident in late July,  to the Financial Times, which cited a person   briefed on internal discussions.  ’ ’   The incident is one of ”a number of previous incidents that were   not managed swiftly by CEO Marissa Mayer,” according to internal   sources . One executive told Recode that the former   head of information security tried unsuccessfully to have top   management respond more strongly to such security incidents. ’ ”   The breach could complicate Yahoo’s pending sale to Verizon,   which agreed to purchase the company for $4. 8 billion on July 25.   The deal  to be finalized by the first quarter of 2017. ” ’   In a  filed with the SEC on September 9, Yahoo reported   there had ”not been any incidents” of security breaches that   could affect the pending deal. The document was signed by Mayer   and Yahoo’’s general counsel, Ronald Bell. ’ ’’ ’   An apparent breach was first disclosed to Yahoo by   Motherboard reporter Joseph Cox on  who wrote of the dataset being sold on a dark web   marketplace on August 1. At the time, Yahoo told Cox it was   ”aware of the claim.” ’ ’   A person familiar with the matter told Business Insider the   company initiated an investigation at that time and later   found the data being sold was not legitimate, but during a deeper   look into its networks, Yahoo found a much larger breach of at   least 500 million user accounts exposed. ’ ’   The person said Yahoo had ”a high degree of confidence” the   theft was carried out by a   actor,   though they declined to say which state. The   person said the hack occurred sometime in 2014. ’ ’   Executives at the company detected   hackers   ”seeking data on 30 to 40 specific users” in the fall of 2014,   the Wall Street Journal  Friday. The hack was later reported to the FBI. ’ ”   Here’s the timeline we know so far: ” ”   So what’s going on here? ” ”   It’s possible that Yahoo’s investigation which found an apparent     actor in its networks happened after September 9,   and Yahoo has not said exactly when it found out about the   breach. A company spokesperson said they could not provide that   level of detail right now. ” ”   There’s also a question of whether the   hacker found   in the fall of 2014 is the same one behind the breach of 500   million accounts. ” ’   But if the company did find it was hacked before September 9, it   could be in hot water with the SEC or Verizon  —   especially since   the breach has moved its stock price down from its Tuesday high   of $44. 83 to closing at $42. 80 on Friday. ’ ’   “The SEC is going to want to know exactly what they knew and when   they knew it,” Stewart Baker, a partner at law firm Steptoe &   Johnson and a former National Security Agency general counsel,   told FT. “The SEC has been eager to investigate people who are   slow to disclose breaches. This is an obvious target. ” ’