’  ’ ”   Donald Trump suggested Ted Cruz’s father had conspired to kill   John F. Kennedy. ” ’   He threatened to  Heidi. ’ ”   He sent a    especially compared to Trump’s third wife who, like Trump’s   first wife, was a model. ” ’   He argued Cruz was  and questioned his religious faith, noting,   ”not too many Evangelicals come out of Cuba, OK?” ’ ’   When the National Enquirer  Trump issued a written statement saying he had   ”no idea” whether the Enquirer story was true, then   adding ”they were right about O. J. Simpson, John Edwards,   and many others.” ’ ’   After all this, Ted Cruz endorsed Donald Trump for president. ’ ’   What a . ’ ”   Back in July, when Cruz took the stage at the Republican National   Convention and pointedly refused to endorse Trump, I puzzled over   Cruz’s choice, which struck me as politically disadvantageous and   therefore not in line with Cruz’s reputation as a man who would   say or do anything to become president. ” ’: ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   In four years, Ted Cruz will be remembered as the guy who said   Trump was ”terrific” and ”speaks the truth,” and who then said he   was    who knifed him at the back at the time when doing so did the most   to harm the party’’s chances, and who then came back and endorsed   him at the last minute, all without ever getting an apology for   Trump’’s abuse of his family. ’ ”   This does not seem like a track record that is likely to please   either Trump’s fans or his detractors. ” ’   Of course, Cruz can say he extracted some promises from Trump,   including a written statement promising only to nominate Supreme   Court justices from a   list of . Such a promise would   seem valuable unless, of course, you believe Trump to be   ”utterly amoral” and a ”pathological liar.” ’ ’   Cruz should have listened to : Donald Trump may beat you,   but he can only take away your dignity if you let him or if   you are Jeb Bush. ’ ’   This endorsement will not help Ted Cruz become president. But it   has revealed him to be a ridiculous, unprincipled,   undignified man who does not even care if another man calls   his father a murderer and his wife ugly. ’