’  ’ ’   The FDA just approved a version of Humira, the blockbuster   arthritis drug made by AbbVie that brought in  in sales in 2015. ’ ’   The drug, called  is   a ”biosimilar,” which is like a generic version of a biologic   medication, a medicine produced by living cells. ’ ’   Biosimilars are a bit more complicated than your average   competing medicine: Unlike generics for   drugs like   antibiotics, which can be interchangeable with branded versions,   the copycats of biologic medications have a few more caveats. ’ ’  ’ ’   Having more biosimilars in the US would be a big deal: It might   be the best way to drive down the cost of biologic medications   that have been around for a while. The savings of putting people   on far less costly biosimilars  —   even just new patients who have   never taken the original  —   are estimated to be billions of   dollars. ’ ’’ ’   But, because of patent litigation, Amjevita . ’ ’  ’ ”   It’s the same thing that’s happening with other biosimilars: A   biosimilar version of Enbrel is .  ” ”   Developing a biosimilar is not as easy as creating a generic   knockoff; because you’re working with complex living things,   making a copy isn’t so simple. ” ’   ”When you have a small molecule like Lipitor, you know where   every single atom is,” Dennis Lanfear, CEO of biosimilar company   Coherus Biosciences, told Business Insider . ’ ”   That’s not the case with something like a monoclonal antibody  —   a   type of  that can go after certain cells like   your immune system would  —   which can vary widely. This means that   you have to run the biosimilar through a bunch of studies to   prove that it does the same thing that the original drug does,   making development not only more complicated but much more   expensive. ” ’   Coherus is developing biosimilar versions to drugs for autoimmune   diseases and cancer treatment, including biosimilar versions of   both Humira and Enbrel. It plans to file a     application to the FDA for its version of pegfilgrastim, a bone   marrow stimulant, in 2016. ’ ’   ”Biosimilars are here,” Lanfear said. ’