’  ’ ”   The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) may reportedly still   engage in a banned practice that manipulates popular news   coverage, and a few of America’s top science journalists are   railing against the government organization because of it. ” ’   One of them is even suing the FDA for documents related to the   matter. ’ ’   The commotion, raised by NYU journalism professor Charles Seife    deals with the   FDA’’s use of a worrisome media strategy called a ”    embargo.” (Seife’’s NYU colleague and journalist Ivan Oransky   previously detailed the matter in  at his blog Embargo Watch.) ’ ’     embargoes let a select few journalists get access to   newsworthy information, yet only after they agree not contact   anyone outside the organization for second opinions. ’ ’   The result is that due diligence goes out the window: Without the   ability to contact outside experts, a bunch of stories appear in   the most popular news outlets in the world all at once  —   yet   without any independent expert voices to backstop the new   information. ’ ’’ ”   And with the FDA, the stakes couldn’t be higher: It’s an   organization whose decisions can determine whether a drug,   medical procedure, or policy is safe for the public. ” ’   Some anointed outlets who do agree to   embargoes do add     sources to their online stories after the embargo   lifts, but many don’’t. ”In that situation, the journalist is   allowing his or her reporting hands to be tied in a way that   they’’re not going to be anything, ultimately, other than a   stenographer,” Seife quoted journalist  as saying. ’ ’   As a result of the uproar, . ’ ’   But journalists noticed that the agency secretly defied itself in   2014 (over ) and Seife   suspects the FDA is still clinging to   embargoes: ’ ’   Seife also wrote: ”Absent any indications from the agency, it is   anyone’’s guess whether the   embargo is still in use at   the FDA and, if so, how frequently.” ’ ’   Unsatisfied with the information vacuum, Seife said he is ”suing   the agency for access to documents about embargo practices.” ’ ’   Business Insider contacted Seife about the nature of his   complaint, and he provided  which is a . ’ ’   The lawsuit alleges that the ”FDA is unlawfully withholding   information” from Seife that he requested in 2014 and 2015. Part   of the haul of documents he asked for  —   and received in a heavily   redacted form  —   regards the FDA’’s embargo practices. ’ ’   ”FOIA lawsuits take a long time to resolve, and I’’d be surprised   if things are resolved before mid next year,” Seife told Business   Insider in an email. ”Right now, they’’re providing additional   records    every month, they’’re required to produce a few. But   after that, there’’s an additional question of whether or not   they’’re redacting appropriately. (My view is that in many cases,   they aren’’t, and we’’ll have to fight over that. )” ’ ”   Business Insider contacted several officials at the FDA office of   media affairs for a response to the lawsuit, and the criticisms   presented by Seife’s piece, specifically citing his assumption   that   embargoes are still being used, but they did not   immediately respond. ”