’  ’ ”   The US locks up more of its citizens than any other country, so   it’s no surprise that mass incarceration and     reform have become prominent issues on the presidential campaign   trail. ” ’   Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton has treaded   carefully on this front,  some of the    laws from the 1980s and   1990s that contributed to mass incarceration and walking back her     remark calling young offenders ”.” ’ ’   It has been difficult territory to navigate; both Clinton and her   husband, former President Bill Clinton,  during his administration,   particularly when the two were drumming up support for the 1994   crime bill. ’ ’   The changes introduced by the law  —   which called for severe   sentences, strict gun laws, and more police officers and prisons    —   have been widely derided in recent years as a key cause of mass   incarceration. The data shows the law, in fact, has had  in reforming or influencing state policies. ’ ’   Clinton has now proposed numerous policy changes geared at   reducing the number of incarcerated people and facilitating   prisoners’’ reentry into society. At the same time, her Republican   opponent, Donald Trump, has ramped up his rhetoric on cracking   down on violent crime and cast himself as the ”law and order”   candidate. ’ ”   It’s worth noting that the federal government, headed by the   president, has jurisdiction only over federal laws and prisons,   which hold  of the US’s estimated 2. 2 million incarcerated   people. The White House can try to influence state and local laws   by offering or retracting funding, but the effects are often   limited. ” ”   Regardless, both   nominees have asserted their   positions on crime, prisons, and mass incarceration. Here’s how   Clinton and Trump say they’ll handle   issues. ” ’  ’ ’   Even on this basic statistic that underlies most     issues, Republicans and Democrats remain split on the data. The   FBI has recorded a steady  in violent crime rates over the past decade,   and Democrats have used this to bolster their arguments to reduce   incarceration. ’ ’  ’ ’ audience in July that   crime was at ”historic lows.” ’ ”   Republicans, however, have seized on the rising murder rate in   cities such as Chicago and asserted that President Barack Obama’s   policies have allowed criminals to run amok. ” ’   ”Decades of progress made in bringing down crime are now being   reversed by this administration’’s rollback of criminal   enforcement,” Trump said at his speech to the Republican National   Convention. ’ ’   Trump has loudly spoke of ”” crime rates and asserted that inner cities have   reached ”record levels” of crime. But according to  violent crime across the   country remains near the bottom of a   downward trend, even   with a projected 5. 5% increase for 2016. ’ ’  ’ ’   The Department of Justice appeased   advocates in   August when it  the use of private prisons for   federal inmates. An  one week earlier had declared the facilities   were less effective and more dangerous than their     counterparts. ’ ’   Private prisons have received renewed scrutiny in recent years   after reports revealed consistent problems with violence, squalid   conditions, neglectful medical care, and overcrowding. The   Department of Homeland Security has also said it will review its   use of private facilities for immigrant detainees. ’ ’   Clinton has pledged to ”end”   detention facilities, and   she  from   lobbyists. ’ ”   Trump has  but hasn’t discussed   the issue at length. ” ’   ”I do think we can do a lot of privatizations and private   prisons. It seems to work a lot better,” he said at a town hall   in March. ’ ’   Presidential clemency has received more attention than usual this   year after Obama began to make unprecedented use of the power. As   of September, he has commuted the sentences of 673 inmates, more   than the previous 10 presidents combined, and pardoned 70. ’ ”   Clemency can be used to pardon federal inmates or commute their   sentences. It’s one of the few direct, relatively unchecked   actions a president can take in the   system, as   it bypasses both Congress and the courts. ” ’   Clinton has not explicitly said whether she would continue   Obama’’s trend of granting commutations to hundreds of prisoners   at a time. Her    does include ”allowing current nonviolent prisoners to seek   fairer sentences,” but she typically discusses the need to   overhaul federal   laws in place of granting   clemency. ’ ’   Trump has  and called the nonviolent drug   offenders who have been released under Obama’’s clemency project   ”bad dudes.” ’ ’   ”These are people who are out, they’’re walking the streets,” he   said at a rally in August. ”Sleep tight, folks.” ’ ’   Obama has concentrated his clemency efforts on inmates who were   harshly sentenced for nonviolent drug offenses during the      era of the late 1980s and early 1990s. Were they   convicted today, many of those inmates would have received   substantially less severe sentences. ’ ”   Clinton’s main focus in reducing mass incarceration has been to   overhaul sentencing for drug offenders  —   even though as president   she would have the power to influence only federal laws, not   state ones. ” ’   She supports halving current mandatory minimum sentences for   nonviolent drug offenders, retroactively applying equal   sentencing to crack and powder cocaine offenses, and eliminating   nonviolent drug offenses from the ”strike” system. ’ ’   Beyond criminal sentencing,   reform advocates have   also looked to Clinton with the hope that she would adopt a   progressive stance on federal marijuana laws and decriminalize   the drug. ’ ’  ’ ’   Clinton is in favor of reclassifying marijuana to a Schedule II   substance under the Controlled Substances Act, which would   acknowledge its medical use. It is currently classified as a   Schedule I elicit substance, putting it alongside drugs including   heroin. ’ ’   Clinton has been more wary, however, on the issue of recreational   marijuana and opted to review how the policies have fared in   states that have already legalized, such as Colorado. ’ ’   In a similar vein, Trump has said he is  of legalizing medical marijuana but has been   shakier on the drug’’s recreational use. He has said such policies   should be ”up to the states,” but his close relationship with     —   a vocal opponent of   marijuana  —   has left marijuana advocates uneasy over whether   Trump would be lenient with the drug. ’ ”   Trump also hasn’t spoken at length on his position on sentencing   reform, but his    rhetoric suggests he   might favor harsher sentences and oppose efforts to   revisit mandatory minimums. ” ”   With the national conversation focused largely on preventive   measures to mass incarceration, some advocates of     reform have called on lawmakers to help lower   recidivism rates and ease  ’ transitions back into   society. ” ’   Clinton believes   should be allowed to vote and has   promised executive action to ”,” which would prevent questions about criminal   history being asked during the hiring of federal government   employees and contractors. Clinton has also proposed a $5 billion   investment in reentry jobs programs for  . ’ ’   It’’s unclear where Trump stands on a ”ban the box” initiative,   but he has come out  who restore voting rights to     whom he suspects will vote Democrat. ’ ’   ”You know what they just did in the state of Virginia  —   200, 000   people that were in prison for horrible crimes are being given   the right to vote,” he told a Rhode Island audience in April,   lambasting Virginia’’s Democratic governor, Terry McAuliffe.   ”That’’s crooked politics. Because Virginia’’s a very close state.” ’ ”   The federal use of the death penalty  in the 1990s, and its modern use has   grown increasingly at odds with its dwindling use in the state   systems. Recent reports show that states’ use of the death   penalty is declining each year  —   in part because of widespread     —   yet is  that often demonstrate   systemic failings, such as overzealous prosecutors, inadequate   defense lawyers, and racial bias and exclusion. ” ”   These concerns have been projected onto the federal system as   well, particularly in cases such as Dzhokhar Tsarnaev’s, when the   convicted Boston Marathon bomber was sentenced to death by a   federal jury in Massachusetts, a state that devoutly opposes   capital punishment. ” ’   Both Clinton and Trump support the death penalty  —   Clinton even   splits with her party on this issue, favoring a     policy while the Democratic platform endorses its abolishment. In   a memorable  in March, Clinton was asked how she could   justify her stance on the death penalty given mounting awareness   of . ’ ’ ’ ’   Clinton gave a meandering response, saying she would ”breathe a   sigh of relief” if the Supreme Court or the states eliminated the   death penalty, but she believed it should still be used for those   who commit ”really heinous crimes.” ’ ’   She continued: ’ ’   Trump appears to have fewer qualms about using the death penalty   and said last year he would sign an executive order to  for anyone convicted of killing   police officers. ’