’  ’ ’   Tech billionaire and SpaceX founder Elon Musk wants to colonize   Mars with  in an effort to protect humanity from   . ’ ’   To that end, Musk gave a keynote talk at the 67th International   Astronautical Congress in Guadalajara, Mexico, where he  to establish a human settlement   on the red planet starting in 2022. ’ ”   You can watch the entire talk .   (There’s also an embedded video player at the end of this post.) ” ’   ”We’’re figuring out how to take you to Mars and build a     city  —   to become a truly multiplanetary species,”   Musk told the crowd. ’ ”   Here’s what we learned about Musk’s and SpaceX’s Martian   ambitions: ” ’ ’ ”   It looks pretty, but it’s not for beauty’s sake. ” ’   ”This is what we plan to try and make it look like,” he said. ’ ’   Musk said the animation came from   design files   that engineers used to mock up the actual Mars system   architecture and . ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   With a spaceship on top, ITS would be 122 meters (400 feet) tall   and 12 meters (39 feet) wide, and able to lift hundreds of tons   of cargo into space. ’ ’  ’ ’   The white bars, Musk said, represent the      efficiency of getting payloads into space. The higher the better. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Musk previously said these engines are about three times as   powerful as the Merlin engines it uses on Falcon 9 rockets. ’ ’   ”I’’m amazed it didn’’t blow up on the first firing,” Musk said of   the . ’ ’  ’ ’   ”You could lose multiple engines, anywhere at liftoff or in   flight, and continue the mission safely,” Musk said. ’ ”   Together, the engines would produce about 28. 7 million pounds of   thrust  —   nearly four times greater than NASA’s Saturn V rocket   that took Apollo astronauts to the moon. ” ’  ’ ’   ”I have nothing against going to the moon,” he said, but notes   it’’s much smaller than Mars, has no atmosphere, and ”is not as    .” ’ ”   Musk also doesn’t like that a day on the moon is 28 Earth days,   which results in frigid, monthlong nights  —   and no ability to   generate solar power during that time. ” ’   Assuming the equipment to land people on Mars existed, Musk said   ”an optimistic cost number would be about $10 billion”  —   that’’s   per person. ’ ’   ”You can’’t create a   city on Mars for $10 billion   a person,” he added. ’ ’   Musk said that drastically lowering the cost of ITS (and a ticket   to Mars) would require a focus on four elements: ’ ’  ’ ’   Musk said he hopes to reduce the cost 5, 000, 000% so that a ticket   costs about $200, 000, or roughly as much as a house. ’ ’   ”This is not easy. It sounds virtually impossible, but I think   there are a variety of ways through it,” he said. ’ ’   As more missions get to Mars and more spaceships are made, he   expects the cost could be as little as $100, 000 per person. Musk   cited a figure of $140, 000 per ton. ’ ’   ”So if the person and their luggage, life support, and   consumption” is accounted for, he said, ”ultimately it could drop   below $100, 000.” ’ ’  ’ ”   But Musk says that’s just to start. ” ’   ”Ultimately, I’’d suspect you’’d see Mars transit times of as   little as 30 days in the distant future,” he said, noting it’’s a   lot different than the estimates of six months or more that are   often passed around. ’ ”   During the journey, he wants to set up the spaceship’s crew   compartment so that passengers can play   games, watch   movies, and more. ” ’   ”It will be, like, really fun to go,” Musk said. ”You’’ll have a   great time.” ’ ’  ’ ’   This would allow Martians to manufacture their fuel to return   home or power future journeys around the solar system. ’ ’   Systems would pull carbon dioxide out of the atmosphere and water   out of the soil, and combine them with electricity derived from   either solar or nuclear power. ’ ’   Out the other end would come methane fuel and oxygen to burn it   (as well as feed into systems for breathable air). ’ ’   ”We think methane is better across the board” as a fuel, Musk   said. ’ ”   The atmosphere of Mars is 90 times thinner than Earth’s, but it   has similar components of our planet’s air  —   a majority of it   being carbon dioxide. ” ’   ”We can grow plants on Mars just by compressing the atmosphere,”   he said. ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tWe’ll start a cadence of sending Dragons to Mars in two years. Will be like a train leaving the station  ” ’   ”We’’ll try to send something to Mars every rendezvous from here   on out,” he said. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”I think the first journey to Mars is going to be very dangerous.   It’’d basically be, ’’Are you prepared to die? ’’” Musk said. ’ ’   If so: ”OK, you’’re a candidate for going. This is less about who   goes first. . .. It’’s about making a   civilization   on Mars as fast as possible.” ’ ’   ”I don’’t think so. I’’m not really sure. I’’d have to have a really   good succession plan because the likelihood of death is very   high,” Musk said. ’ ’   He added that if he died, his biggest fear would be ”investors   who want to maximize the profit of the company and not go to   Mars.” ’ ’  ’ ’   This would require a ”Battlestar Galactica”  ”Mars Colonial   Fleet” of about 10, 000 flights to Mars carrying 100 people per   flight. ’ ’   ”But 10, 000 flights is a lot of flights,” Musk said. ”It will   take a while to build up to 1, 000 ships.” ’ ’   Musk thinks the ITS equipment could be used all over the solar   system once a solid colony is on Mars. ’ ’   ”You could actually go anywhere in the solar system by     or ” Musk said. ”This system gives   you freedom to go anywhere you want in the greater solar system.” ’ ”   Martians could produce methane fuel, tank it up, send it into   Mars’ orbit, and power the first crewed missions to Jupiter . .. ” ’  ’ ’   . .. land on its  where there may be extraterrestrial life . .. ’ ’  ’