’  ’ ”   WASHINGTON (AP)  —   Wells Fargo says   CEO   and the   executive who ran the bank’s retail banking division will forfeit   tens of millions of dollars in bonuses as the bank tries to stem   a scandal over its sales practices. ” ”   The board of directors at the nation’s   bank said   Tuesday that  will forfeit $41   million in stock awards, while former retail banking executive   Carrie Tolstedt will forfeit $19 million of her stock awards,   effective immediately. Both are also giving up any bonuses for   2016, and Tolstedt will not receive any severance or any other   compensation in connection with her retirement, the bank’s   directors said. ” ”   The San   bank’s independent directors are also   launching their own investigation, hiring the law firm Shearman   & Sterling to assist them. ” ”   In their announcement, Wells Fargo’s independent directors said   the pay clawbacks did not preclude the board from pursuing more   salary clawbacks from  or Tolstedt. ” ’   ”We will proceed with a sense of urgency but will take the time   we need to conduct a thorough investigation,” Stephen Sanger,   Wells Fargo’’s lead independent director, said in a statement. ’ ’’ ”   Wells Fargo had been under pressure from lawmakers and others to   implement its executive compensation clawback provisions after   the bank agreed to pay $185 million to settle allegations its   employees opened millions of accounts without customers’   permission to reach aggressive sales targets. ” ’ has faced bipartisan outrage for his   handling of the scandal. Republican Sen. Bob Corker of Tennessee   said at a Banking Committee hearing   where  testified last week that it   would be ”malpractice” if Wells Fargo didn’’t institute any   compensation clawbacks. Democratic Sen. Elizabeth Warren of   Massachusetts told  he should resign   and ”give back the money you took while the scam was going on.” ’ ’ a   veteran of Wells Fargo and CEO   since 2007, earned $19. 3 million last year. Tolstedt announced   her retirement in July and had been expected to leave with as   much as $125 million in salary, stock options and other   compensation. ’ ”   The consumer banking giant, which is the biggest U. S. mortgage   lender, has fired about 5, 300 employees over the sales practices.   Lawmakers told  at the hearing those   dismissals didn’t go high enough up the chain. ” ’ was long admired for keeping Wells  —     until recently  —   free of scandal. The bank did not invest in as   many toxic mortgages in the 2000s as its counterparts,   and  initially declined to take   bailout money from Washington before accepting it in a sign of   solidarity. ’ ’   He also was able to expand Wells significantly as a result of the   crisis, buying up Wachovia. That gave the bank known for its   stagecoach logo, which was primarily a West Coast and Southern   bank, access to the lucrative East Coast and New York banking   markets. ’ ” was also   in the banking   industry for his company’s ability to sell products to customers.   While quotas varied by branch size and other factors, a typical   employee had to sell between 13 and 15 banking products a day  —   a   new account, a mortgage, a retirement account, or even online   banking. The targets were high even in small towns. ” ”   Federal and local authorities said Wells Fargo & Co.   employees trying to meet those targets opened bank and credit   card accounts, moved money between those accounts and even   created fake email addresses to sign customers up for online   banking  —   all without customer authorization. Debit cards were   issued and activated, as well as PINs created, without customers’   knowledge. ” ’   The Labor Department is investigating whether Wells Fargo abused   its employees while driving them to meet the lofty sales targets.   The bank says it has refunded to customers $2. 6 million in fees   charged for products that were sold without authorization. ’