’  ’ ’   NBA fans may see a wild sight from the New York Knicks this   season. ’ ”   After a defensive stop,    Kristaps Porzingis may grab the   rebound and, instead of throwing an outlet to one of the team’s   guards, go bounding up the court with the ball, intent to score   or find an open teammate. ” ’   Speaking at the Knicks media day in White Plains, New York, the      Latvian big man said ball handling and the ability to   bring the ball up the court were two of his greatest improvements   over the offseason. ’ ’   ”My ball handling is a lot better. I feel more comfortable   pushing the ball up now, just playing   ball,” Porzingis   said. ”I just feel comfortable with the ball now.” ’ ’   When asked if the coaching staff made his   and   ability to bring the ball up the court a priority this offseason,   Porzingis said no and gave a hilarious explanation for his   improved skills. ’ ’’ ’   ”Not really,” he said. ”It happened because we’’re playing     games, and we all have the same shirt. So I don’’t really know who   to pass to right away. So I better not pass it  —   I just start   pushing the ball myself, and then I can see the situation. ’ ’   ”That’’s how it happened. It’’s weird, but it helped my confidence   to bring the ball up.” ’ ’   Whether new Knicks head coach Jeff Hornacek and his coaching   staff let that happen is another issue, but it could be a scary   sign for the rest of the NBA. ’ ’   Porzingis flashed skills his rookie season that suggest he could   be the mold of the modern NBA center  —   long and athletic, with   the ability to stretch the floor and hit threes, defend the rim,   and block shots. If he adds the ability to be a   fast   break against slower, more prodding centers, Porzingis may be an   entirely new type of big man in the NBA. ’ ’   Porzingis  showing off his   improved dribbling and ability to create his own shot. Going into   his second year admittedly more comfortable with the game and the   NBA in general, Porzingis may be showing off a valuable new skill   he took from his offseason   games. ’