’  ’ ”   Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton brought up a lot   of sore points for her Republican opponent, Donald Trump, in   Monday night’s debate. ” ’   One of the most damaging  —   and   —   was his treatment   of Alicia Machado, whom Clinton said he called ”Miss Piggy” for   her weight gain after she won the Miss Universe title in 1996. ’ ’   Trump has gratuitously insulted a lot of people during his   career, including by demeaning a lot of women about their looks,   so Machado may have seemed like an obscure example for Clinton to   focus on. ’ ’   But there was a reason for this choice: Latinos have never   forgotten how Trump insulted Machado, whom he also reportedly   called ”Miss Housekeeping” because of her accent. ’ ’   Machado was the first Miss Universe winner after Trump bought the   pageant. He was not pleased when she gained some weight after   winning, and he was not shy about telling the press how he felt. ’ ’   ”She was like an eating machine,” he . ’ ’   When Machado asked for assistance from the Miss Universe   organization in losing weight, Trump invited television   reporters to record her workout, telling them ”she weighed   117, 118 and she went up to 160, 170 pounds, so this is somebody   who likes to eat.” ’ ”   Clinton could have focused on Trump’s treatment of other women in   the public eye  —   women far better known than Machado. ” ”   Clinton could’ve chosen to talk . She could’ve   chosen . She could’ve chosen comedian Rosie O’Donnell (whom   Trump brought up unprompted at the debate anyway). She could’ve   even chosen Trump’s two  . ” ’   But the choice of Machado helps remind Latinos why they disliked   Trump long before he started talking about Mexico sending   ”rapists” across the its border with the US and the need for a   wall there. ’ ’   In the 1990s, the Machado story was covered in     news outlets both in the US and across Latin America. Trump was   portrayed as a bully, and the tearful (but smiling  —   this is a   pageant)    Machado was seen as a victim of stressful   circumstances. ’ ’   Clinton seems to have succeeded in goading Trump into   relitigating his dispute with Machado. Ever unable to let   anything go, Trump complained on Tuesday morning that Machado’’s    and that she   was ”the absolute worst,” a blunder so obvious it made even the   hosts of ”Fox & Friends” wince. ’ ’   Trump has damaged himself most when he has gotten into fights   with relatively obscure people, including the judge presiding   over a lawsuit filed against Trump and the . ’ ’   Clinton knew exactly what she was doing  —   drawing Trump into   something that is sure to enrage women and Latinos at   the same time. ’ ’  ’ ”   After Miss Universe, Machado went on to have a fairly successful   acting and singing career in the   market. Her   breakups and boyfriends  and she has talked   openly about Trump’s treatment of her since he started running   for president. ” ”   Back in May she did an interview with Univision journalist Jorge   Ramos  —     —   about   Trump’s treatment of her. ” ’   ”How did he treat you?” Ramos asked her. ’ ’   ”Abominably,” she responded. ”And this isn’’t the first time I’’ve   said it. I’’ve spent the last 20 years telling people how I   suffered that year, how that hurt me as a person. I suffered a   lot of psychological violence.” ’ ’   Ramos asked her why she was speaking out now. ’ ’   ”Well, because the man hadn’’t run for president before,” she   said. ”He was just supposed to be a guy running casinos, not a   great nation like the US.” ’ ”   Machado definitely does believe it’s a great nation, because in   August she officially became a US citizen. ” ’   Last month, she trolled Trump on Instagram, writing that she   would be voting. ’ ’ ’ ”   That’s some quality trolling. ”