’  ’ ’   Blame Chipotle, but also blame high prices and wariness over the   economy for why consumers have been more cautious about eating   out. ’ ’   Overall, restaurant traffic was flat in the first quarter of 2016   and it stayed the same in the second, according to . The news was   especially bad in the   segment, which had been growing   explosively at this time last year. ’ ”     traffic was flat in Q1 compared to same quarter a   year ago, down 3% in Q2. You can blame a lot of that on   Chipotle’s   woes, but even taking the Mexican chain   out of the equation only puts Q2 growth at 2% down from 11%   growth in 2015. ” ’   ”Contributing to the stalled visit growth are consumers’’   uncertainties about current and future economic conditions,” says   Bonnie Riggs, NPD Group’’s restaurant industry analyst in a   .   ’ ’     These uncertainties have put a damper on overall consumer     spending. Compounding the situation for the restaurant industry     is the decline in food at home inflation while at the same time     restaurant operators have been increasing menu prices.   ’ ”   Consumer concerns over pricing hit   chains like   Chipotle and Panera Bread especially hard   because they have built their business on offering     food that’s more expensive than their   rivals.     chains, because they use better ingredients, also   have higher costs that impacts their ability to offer deals   during slower periods. ” ’’ ’   In general, the biggest problem for restaurants is that people   are less willing to eat lunch out. The midday meal represents   about 3% of all daypart visits, according to NPD. ’ ’   In Q2, lunch traffic fell by 4% compared to the same quarter last   year while dinner, which accounts for about 30% of daypart   visits, only dropped by 1% an improvement over the 3% decline in   the first quarter of this year. Breakfast traffic grew by 1% in   Q2. ’ ’   The slowing lunch business can be directly linked to pricing and   economic concerns. ”It’’s political, concern about the   economy. It’’s uncertainty, food safety, social unrest,” Riggs   told   (NRN). ”But probably the biggest thing is sticker shock.” ’ ’   NRN noted that of the total negative traffic volume at lunch, 12%   came from fast casual, double its overall market share, while the   average check jumped by 5% to $8. 36, the highest of any other   segment. ’ ’   For fast casual, specifically chains like Chipotle and Panera      which market around having better quality and more natural foods   (which cost more)    economic uncertainty will always be a   problem. If people are worried about their jobs or the economy,   they may not be willing to pay more for pork from a pig raised   down the street or ”clean” bacon. ’ ”   Worries about money will push people away from pricier choices,   seemingly especially at lunch, but Riggs was clear that NPD’s   research had some positives as well. ” ’   ”The good news in all of this is that consumers made 61. 3 billion   restaurant visits this past year,” she said. ”They are not giving   up dining out at restaurants and other foodservice outlets. It’’s   true that in this flat market it’’s a battle for visit share but   there are restaurants that are winning. The winning operators   focus on their customers’’ needs and deliver on them.” ’ ’     ’