’  ’ ’   While the specifics over how it will be achieved  and there are already signs that   some    it appears that OPEC will reduce oil output for the first time in   eight years when the group next meets on November 30 in Vienna. ’ ’   The tentative agreement to cut output by 750, 000 barrels per day   to 32. 5 million barrels  —   the figure the group believes will be   required to balance the crude market next year  —   had an immediate   and outsized market impact as soon as the headlines hit, sending   both Brent and WTI crude futures higher by around 5% within a   matter of minutes. ’ ’   There is now real optimism that the lows stuck earlier this year   for crude will be just that, the lows in the current price cycle. ’ ’  ’ ’   While undoubtedly a bullish development for prices, presuming, of   course, that the deal is actually finalised, there is one small   problem. While OPEC is an influential and enormous part of the   crude market, it actually only produces around 40% of global   supply. There’s other major players to consider, including the US   and Russia. ’ ’   As we’ve all learnt in recent years, it’s hard enough to get OPEC   members to agree, let alone other competitors in the market. ’ ’   And higher prices, as is likely to eventuate should the OPEC deal   be formally approved, will make it all the more appealing to     producers to keep pumping to capitalise on higher   prices. ’ ’   Oil producers want increased revenues, as do investors. And then   there are   governments to consider. ’ ’   Vivek Dhar, a mining and energy commodities analyst at the   Commonwealth Bank, touched upon the conundrum facing the global   crude market in the wake of OPEC’s decision, suggesting that the   benefits of higher prices to OPEC could be easily unwound by the   actions of other producers in a research note released early   Thursday. ’ ’   “While the details and the enforcement of the [OPEC] deal are   still unknowns, the implications for US supply is well worth   considering,” says Dhar. ’ ’   “US data suggests that oil prices around $US50 per barrel are   encouraging the restart of idled US oil output. While OPEC may be   finally working as a group, the response of US shale oil   producers to increase output to any price increase may undo   OPEC’s plan. ” ’ ’   Dhar notes that even before Wednesday’s announcement, there were   tentative signs that US crude output, having fallen steadily in   the past two years, was starting to bottom out, hinting that even   with lower crude prices, efficiency gains were allowing ’ ’   “After months of projecting sliding US oil output until 3Q17, the   US Energy Information Administration (EIA) has finally changed   their tune,” he said. ’ ’   “The EIA now forecasts that US oil output will lift from 8. 49     in 3Q16 to 8. 57   4Q16, up from previous forecasts. The   uptick likely reflects the increase in US oil rigs, which have   advanced 32% (100 rigs) since late May. ” ’ ’   Remembering, of course, that the increase in rigs in production   occurred when WTI crude futures traded in a range of between   $US39 to $US52 per barrel. ’ ’   One can only speculate as to the degree US production would lift   should crude prices move back above $US50 per barrel.  ’ ’   Dhar believes this, along with speculation over whether the OPEC   deal will actually get over the line, will see volatility in the   crude price intensify in the months ahead.  ’ ’   “We expect oil price volatility to accelerate into year end on   continuing speculation on OPEC and US oil supply,” he says. ’