’  ’ ’   Imagine living with a disease that renders you disabled and   exhausted, unable to meet the physical demands of daily living.   Now imagine that much of the medical establishment refused to   believe your disease was ”real” in the sense of a physical   illness and failed to fund research into its true causes and   treatment. ’ ”   That’s the situation of the more than 1 million people in the US   living with myalgic   fatigue syndrome,   or  . The disease causes crippling exhaustion, particularly   after exercise, as well as pain, nonrestorative sleep, and other   issues. It often, but not always, arises suddenly after an   illness like the flu. Science still can’t explain what causes it   or offer useful treatments. ” ’   In fact, up to this point, research has arguably done     patients more harm than good. ’ ”   As Julie Rehmeyer, herself an   patient,  a bad 2011 study known as the PACE trial   suggested that the disease was psychological and should be   treated with cognitive behavioral therapy and exercise. That   research, it turns out, was based on faulty methods and suggested   interventions that might have made people’s symptoms worse, not   better. But it took patients until 2015 to . ” ’   Also in 2015, the Institute of Medicine  concluding that ”  is a   serious, chronic, complex, systemic disease that often can   profoundly affect the lives of patients.” The report estimated   that 836, 000 to 2. 5 million Americans were suffering from it and   said ”misconceptions or dismissive attitudes on the part of   healthcare providers make the path to diagnosis long and   frustrating for many patients.” ’ ’   But   has a history of being dismissed and ignored, and a   culture had already developed of . Little   funding flows toward   research. ’ ’   As the Institute of Medicine report  ”Remarkably little research funding has been made   available to study the cause of   mechanisms associated   with the development and progression of the disease, or effective   treatment, especially given the number of people affected.” ’ ”   That’s why several dozen patients and allies gathered outside the   Health and Human Services office in New York City on Tuesday to   demand more funding and attention for the disease. Many leaned on   light poles, sat on the ground, or sat in wheelchairs throughout   the protest. Several used video chat to attend virtually from   their beds. ” ’   It was one of several similar scenes playing out in cities across   the country as part of the  protest   network. ’ ’   ”This is the first time I’’m really meeting other patients with   ME, because we all are so isolated from each other,” Paris Abell,   a corporate lawyer with   who attended the protest, told   Business Insider. ”It can take so long to get a diagnosis and   then you’’re just focused on your    function and then   you’’re just trying to go on living every day. And it’’s almost   impossible to get anyone to pay attention to this disease or take   it seriously.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Speakers told stories of suddenly losing their mobility and the   physical stamina to meet the demands of everyday life. They   described going years without diagnoses and the sense that   ”chronic fatigue syndrome” is a name used to imply people with a   physical disease are mentally ill. ’ ’   Activists from  an   organization founded in the 1980s to demand attention and funding   to combat AIDS at a time when the government was largely   unwilling to acknowledge it, joined the small protest to express   their support. ’ ’   In the more than a year since the PACE trial, there has been some   forward motion on the disease. Researchers, some of whom attended   the protest, have begun to take   seriously. And 55 members   of Congress recently sent a  to the National Institutes of Health requesting that   the agency take on   as a national medical problem. ’ ’   But progress remains slow, as the recent Institute of Medicine   report made clear, arguing that ”more research is urgently   needed.” ’ ’   At the end of the protest, activists carried a giant ”report   card” covered in facts about   up the steps of the Health   and Human Services building. The grades: all Fs. ’