’   A top spokesman for Donald Trump refused to admit Thursday that   unscientific online polls are “bogus” when pressed repeatedly by   MSNBC host Chuck Todd. ’ ’   “Why do you think the multiple polls, scientific polls, have said   Hillary Clinton won the debate by a    margin?” Todd   asked. “I mean, it’s not even close. ” ’ ’   “All right, well I got to set you straight on that one,” said   Jason Miller, a senior communications adviser to Trump, before   citing unscientific online polls. ’ ’ ’ ’   Online polls are dismissed by professional pollsters and analysts   as inaccurate because the sample is made up of     participants and does not reflect the full composite of the   electorate. ’ ’   “What scientific poll had Donald Trump winning? Give me one   scientific poll,” Todd demanded. “Everything else  —   those are fan   polls, man. ” ’ ’’ ’   Miller insisted the unscientific web polls are “snapshots of what   people are thinking who are actually watching the debate. ” ’ ’   Todd, growing frustrated, explained to Miller that online web   polls do not accurately reflect the opinion of voters. ’ ’   “Those are all like robot polling. It’s not real polling. They’re   not!” he exclaimed. ’ ’   He continued: “Jason, you’ve been doing this a while! You know   those are bogus! You know these are bogus! They are beyond    !   …     They’re not real, Jason!” ’ ’   Miller, undeterred, kept to his talking points. ’ ’   “Chuck, the energy and the enthusiasm in this race are all with   Mr. Trump,” he said. ’ ’   All four scientific polls conducted in the aftermath of the   debate .   However, before the slew of scientific polls was released, Trump   touted unscientific online polls that his supporters had   flooded to declare him the winner. ’ ’   Fox News host Sean Hannity and some of his colleagues helped fuel   Trump’’s narrative by also citing such unscientific online polls,   ultimately resulting in a network executive  reminding employees   that online polls ”do not meet . .. editorial standards.” ’