’  ’ ’   WASHINGTON  —   The Senate’’s top Republican Thursday warned that   legislation enacted over President Barack Obama’’s veto to allow   families of Sept. 11 victims to sue Saudi Arabia in U. S. courts   may have ”unintended ramifications” and that lawmakers should   discuss fixes to the measure. ’ ’   Majority Leader Mitch McConnell,  . said the White House was   too slow to warn about the ”potential consequences” of the   measure. Both the House and Senate overwhelmingly overrode   Obama’’s veto of the measure on Wednesday. ’ ’   McConnell said he told the president recently that the     victims bill ”was an example of an issue that we should have   talked about much earlier.” ’ ”   The legislation gives victims’ families the right to sue in U. S.   court for any role that elements of the Saudi government may have   played in the 2001 attacks. Courts would be permitted to waive a   claim of foreign sovereign immunity when an act of terrorism   occurred inside U. S. borders. Supporters said the families of     victims should be able to pursue justice against Saudi   Arabia for its alleged backing of the attackers. ” ”   But those concerned about the law warn that it could have a   chilling effect on Saudi Arabia’s cooperation with the U. S. in   fighting terrorism. They also warn that it could trigger lawsuits   from people in other countries seeking redress for injuries or   deaths caused by military actions in which the U. S. may have had   a role. ” ’’ ’   ”Everybody was aware of who the potential beneficiaries were but   nobody really had focused on the downside in terms of our   international relationships,” McConnell said. ’ ’   McConnell said that the dynamic involving the bill  —   in which it   barreled through both chambers before and proved unstoppable  —     was what happens when there is ”failure to communicate early   about the potential consequences of a piece of legislation that   was obviously very popular.” ’ ’   Other top Republicans and Democrats such as Senate Foreign   Relations Committee Chairman Bob Corker,  . are already   working on proposed fixes to the law. ’