’  ’ ’   In poker, there is a concept called ”tilt.” ’ ”   When a poker player is on tilt, that means he’s angry, and his   anger is interfering with his judgment. A player on tilt will   tend to play aggressively, but not in a good way  —   he’ll make big   bets when he has a bad hand, and then he’ll lose. ” ’   You might remember the climactic scene in ”Rounders,” in which   Mike McDermott discovers his poker nemesis Teddy KGB has a   serious ”tell.” You can figure out whether Teddy has a good hand   based on the way he eats his Oreos. ’ ’   One way to use this information would be to keep quiet, sit back,   watch him eat, and bet accordingly. But Mike realizes that if he   reveals to Teddy that he knows about the tell, Teddy will flip   out and go on tilt, making bad choices and ultimately losing all   his chips. ’ ’   This is roughly what Hillary Clinton did to Donald Trump on   Monday. It . ’ ”   Ahead of Monday night’s debate, one of the facts we knew about   Clinton’s preparation was that she was  about how to get   under Trump’s skin. ” ’   ”Her campaign is preparing ways for her to unnerve Mr. Trump and   provoke him to rant and rave,” The New York Times reported. ’ ’   This worked during the debate. But more impressively, it has   worked for days after the debate. ’ ’   Clinton has gotten Trump to spend the whole week litigating the   question of whether he was out of line to publicly humiliate     Universe Alicia Machado over her weight gain in 1996. ’ ’   Clinton based her debate strategy on a key insight: Trump has   poor impulse control, but he is more impulsive at some times than   others. He is not always an uncontrollable pile of sputtering   rage  —   he was   —   but if you find the right way to   provoke him, you can send him off the rails. ’ ’   Over the past few months, he has seemed less able to stifle   himself when he is under attack (as during the Democratic   convention) when he believes his campaign aides are     his choices (as when Paul Manafort was too openly   discussing the need for Trump to change) or when he is slipping   in the polls (the way he was immediately after the Democratic   convention). ’ ’  ’ ’   Having observed this, Clinton set off a series of dominoes. ’ ’   She attacked Trump where he is sensitive  —   calling him ”Donald,”   questioning his wealth, bringing up past feuds  —   and got him not   only to lash out in   ways but also to be so   distracted by the need to lash out that he forgot to bring up key   attacks on Clinton. ’ ’   After Trump flunked the debate,  about how they tried   and failed to get him to prepare. This further angered Trump,   leading his campaign to organize a conference call with   surrogates and supporters instructing them to stop leaking and   start saying Trump had won the debate. ’ ’   The substance of that conference call predictably  leading the man who practically invented the   phrase ”many people are saying” to  that any story about his campaign based on   anonymous sources was based on lies. ’ ”   The bad debate has also hurt Trump’s poll standing, and as Trump   comes to realize the polls are deteriorating he will most likely   become angrier and more erratic  —   at a time when he ought to be   trying to become calmer and more prepared for the next debate on   October 9. ” ’   Alicia Machado turns out to have had  than most people realized on debate   night, a fact that makes some people wonder whether the Clinton   campaign fully vetted her before putting her in the national   spotlight. ’ ’   My guess is the Clinton campaign knew exactly what it was doing. ’ ’  ’ ’   The existence of scandal around Machado made it irresistible for   Trump to spend his week insisting that Machado was the real   villain here  —   a message choice that made Trump look petty and   silly even before he urged voters in a series of overnight tweets   to check out Machado’’s ”sex tape” (which is  about     celebrities working on a farm). ’ ’   A rational candidate, coolly focused on what message he could   send to best win over voters, would understand that there is   nothing to gain by arguing about whether Machado is a good   person, let alone about whether her weight gain was ”.” ’ ”   But Trump is not rational. He’s on tilt. ” ’   In poker, if you go on tilt, the best strategy is to stop   playing. Get up, step away from the table, and come back to play   again only when your mood has normalized. ’ ”   You don’t have that option in a presidential campaign, but I’d   note even more importantly that you don’t have the option in the   presidency. If Clinton can get inside Trump’s head so easily,   foreign leaders will be able to do so, too. This personality   trait would make Trump a very dangerous president. ” ’   Fortunately, it has also made him a danger to himself in his own   campaign. ’ ’   Trump has no option to take a tilt break. My expectation is he   will come back to debate on October 9 still mad as hell  —   and I   also expect that Clinton has plans up her sleeve to make him even   more unhinged. ’