’  ’ ’   Michael Gastauer is a financial technology success story. ’ ” he turned his   digital banking group,  into a $2. 2 billion company in less than 10   months. With close to a million customers and $1. 2 billion in   monthly processing, it’s become the largest digital bank in   FinTech history. ” ”   While the company behind Michael’s success is fascinating, I   was more interested in discovering the business habits that he   used to help him turn WB21 into what it is today. ” ’   Through my work at  I got the opportunity to   meet him for breakfast and find out the key to   his success firsthand. ’ ’   I wanted our interview to go past the   jargon we   commonly hear and get to the meat of what allowed Michael to have   success after success (his last company sold for $480 million,   after all). ’ ’’ ’   Here are five keys to success I learned from Michael over   breakfast: ’ ’   Before our interview, saying I had nerves would be an   understatement. Astonishingly, from the moment I sat down   with Michael to the moment we said goodbye, I became   completely comfortable with him. It was as if we had been friends   for years and were just catching up. ’ ”   We often see this in major politicians and actors. The   ability to make anyone feel at ease with you is a skill that   gives you a leg up, especially when you’re a powerful   person who might make a lot of people nervous. ” ’   Two takeaways from Michael: ’ ’Ask questions. During our interview, I talked at   length about my mediation, eating, and work habits. Without   realizing it, I almost forgot who was being interviewed  —     Michael or myself. ’ ’Have relaxed body language. Whenever I   was nervous, Michael was able to pick up on it and slouch a   little, change to a less formal tone, or smile. ’ ”   If you ever meet Michael in person and ask him the date and time,   there’s a good chance he will get it wrong. He travels to   over 15 countries a month, often just for a few hours at a   time. ” ’   ”It’’s come to the point that when I see a bed, I’’ll just sleep in   it for a few hours and get back up. It doesn’’t matter the time   and it doesn’’t matter the place, whenever I can find time to get   rest, I get it,” Michael said. ’ ”   An employee noted that when the executive team gets up at 6 a. m.   typically Michael has already been up for around 2 hours.   While this employee’s workday ends at 7 p. m. it’s not   uncommon to get an email or call from Michael up until midnight. ” ”   When I heard stories of  I thought   this was unique. But I’m learning that the super successful often   aquire an insane work ethic before they even become wealthy.   From my conversation with Michael, it seems like long   hours are not so much a badge of honor, but rather an   expectation of what is required for success. ” ”   I asked Michael about what drives him to spend so many hours day   after day on WB21. He said that, over everything else, he has a   strong desire to give people the ability to achieve   financial success in places where until now it’s been nearly   impossible. Helping people in the poorest parts of Asia start   businesses, empowering more women to work in FinTech, and solving   the growing wealth disparity motivates him. The money,   attention, and awards are all just cherries on top. ” ”   It’s usually not just money that drives the super   successful. At some point, you get to a place where there’s no   way you’re going to spend all the money you have during your   lifetime. So why do these people continue to work like crazy and   keep going? They are serving a higher purpose. ” ”   When you’re motivated to build a business for more than money,   you think differently. Decisions become simpler, being a strong   leader is more natural, and making money becomes easier. Michael   has a higher purpose, and it drives him to keep pushing forward   every day. ” ’   After selling his first company, Michael   WB21 by   investing $24 million of his own money into the company. After   the company experienced   growth during the first   six months of launch, venture capitalists began calling.   Presented with the opportunity to raise an  $50 million   Series A, Michael made the executive call to not accept the term   sheets. ’ ’   Whether we like it or not, we idolize the companies that raise   huge rounds and dismiss the ones that don’’t. Everything about   startup culture says, ”Raise. Raise. And then raise again.” But   while everyone zigged, Michael decided to zag. This resulted in   him and his team keeping 100% of WB21’’s equity all the way to a   $2. 2 billion valuation. ’ ’   Apart from just business, Michael also shared that he rarely   drinks alcohol and almost never parties. ”I love business, and   that’’s what I want to spend my time doing. It doesn’’t matter to   me what everyone else is doing, because the majority of people   are not out to build   businesses. To build a   business that size, you have to be completely obsessed,” he   said. ’ ’   Super successful people think independently and aren’’t   influenced by what society tells them. They choose their own   path, and many of them are fine with being considered different   by the general public. As the saying goes, ”You don’’t change the   world doing the same thing everyone else is doing.” ’ ’  is the   of  and . He has   helped startups and Fortune 500 companies make more money on   the web using digital marketing. ’ ’Get updates in your inbox.’ ’Subscribe to Fintech Briefing and never miss an update!’