’  ’ ”   Sometimes I just can’t believe it. Driving around in New Jersey,   where I live, I see what to my mind are comically low gas prices    —   I can almost always fuel up for less that $2 a gallon. ” ’   Two years ago, I moved from one of the highest   states   in the US, California, and a year ago, I became a resident of the   Garden State. ’ ”   I’ll never forget the first time I stopped at a gas station and,   being a   Los Angeles dweller, prepared a pair of   twenties, only to get my   for $18. ” ”   New Jersey gas is cheap because the state hasn’t raised its gas   tax since the 1980s. But now Governor Chris Christie, following a   horrific New Jersey Transit train crash in Hoboken last week, has    to replenish the state’s   transportation fund and do something about the dilapidated   condition of bridges, tunnels,   and roadways. ” ’   There was of course some political   thrown in, as   New Jersey Democratic leaders agreed to lower the sales tax   slightly and to end the estate tax in a few years. ’ ’   I have to admit that I’’m torn by this news. On the one hand,   there’’s no question that New Jersey’’s infrastructure problems   must be addressed and that a gas tax is a quickest way to   generate the revenue. But on the other, I was   by   paying for gas in California all those years; the Golden State is   often described as ”gas island” because its fuel is so different   from what the rest of the country uses, due to environmental   regulations and an ancient refining industry. ’ ’  ’ ’   Jerseyites were clearly living on politically borrowed time. ’ ”   Thirty years without a tax increase for such an obvious     mechanism didn’t make much sense, and the anger of   affluent suburban commuters to New York, saddled with endless   rail delays, was going to become a liability for Christie’s   successor, Republican or Democrat. ” ’   This could have a modest effect on auto sales, as well. SUVs are   very popular in New Jersey, but their comeback in recent years   has been driven by cheap gas. ’ ”   I have a hybrid that I drive mainly on weekends, so I’m already   hedged against a jump in fuel costs. But if you’re accustomed to   gassing up your Chevy Suburban for about $60, adding a quarter   more a gallon could make you think twice about buying   another vehicle so large. ” ”   OK, it’s only about a quarter more a gallon, but New Jersey   drivers could soon be hit with another gas tax, if the federal   rate is increased; it hasn’t be raised since 1993. ”