’’ ’’ ’The data confirm it: .’ ’As the years go by, more and more people are choosing to leave behind their suburban and rural lives in search of greater urban opportunities.’ ’To get a sense of what city life might look like in the future, Business Insider called on futurists, urban planners, and designers to weigh in on trends related to transportation, housing, automation, the Internet, the environment, and jobs.’ ”Together, their predictions paint the world’s future cities as crowded hubs that run on renewable energy and harness the Internet in every facet of daily life. Vehicles are electric,   and shared by residents.” ’Welcome to our urban future.’ ’Dan Doctoroff, CEO of Google’’s transportation offshoot, Sidewalk Labs,  in building   ”smart cities”  —   places where the Internet is baked into all aspects of the city.’ ”In such a city, the government could ensure all citizens have access to free   Internet, and it can collect huge batches of data about transportation habits and infrastructure. It’ll be a   version of  which is just like Singapore, only completely datafied. ” ’People could know in   how busy the trains are and which restaurants are the least crowded.   cars will know at all times which routes are the fastest based on data from other vehicles on the road, similar to how Waze users alert one another.’ ’With so many sensors collecting data and communicating with one another, cities of the future will start to think for themselves, says ’ ”That means all forms of public and private transportation coordinate with one another simultaneously to keep the roads safe and efficient. Pescovitz also believes   services will start using predictive models based on people’s spending habits to deliver items to your door before you realize you need them  —   like an enhanced version of .” ’100 years from now, ”You start to see the city almost become sentient,” he says.’ ’Every expert Business Insider consulted believes cities of the future will experience a revolution in transportation. In the next decade, cars will increasingly be   electric, and used primarily as shared vehicles to get around. Further down the line, few   will own their own cars that they keep at home.’ ’Cities will be so smart in how they dispatch automated cars, says Pescovitz, that ”you’’ll start to see various forms of transportation almost as packets in the Internet getting switched around and routed to various places as they’’re needed. ”’ ” speculates people will use cars as   since they won’t need to focus on driving. They’ll be able to stay heads down while their car whisks them to work.” ’With so many people to consider but far fewer cars on the road, cities will get to repurpose much of the current space dedicated to streets and instead use it for housing complexes  —   .’ ’McConnell says   living situations may also be a necessity for families.’ ’”Our future urban landscapes may in some ways resemble the cities of our past,” he tells Business Insider. ”  households could offset the growing cost of living in cities, while transforming community bonds in neighborhoods. ”’ ”According to  head of IFTF’s Technology Horizon team, public spaces will serve an even more vital function in future cities.” ’When people are living in tighter quarters and have less room to entertain guests, cities could respond to the greater demand for public space by turning unused roads into bike and walking paths and transforming parking lots into parks.’ ’”Public spaces are going to need to be much more adaptable,” Falcon tells Business Insider.’ ’As robots  people will have an increasingly difficult time finding work in the coming decades. Falcon says the nature of many jobs will need to change, moving from   careers to individual gigs.’ ’”Jobs are getting unbundled into very specific tasks,” he says. Data already show robotics and AI  so companies of the future, if they ever need human labor, might just call on people for   creative projects.’ ’Falcon points to other matchmaking services  —   Tinder for dating, Uber for rides  —   that have already seen great success in bringing people together based on their needs and wants. He says the kinds of services that currently exist for    freelancers, such as Fiverr and Gigwalk, will only get smarter with time.’ ’The most sophisticated technology in Google Photos is  is in a photo. Cities of the future could incorporate facial and object recognition technology in a wide range of applications, from airport security to home protection,  di’ ’Instead of having everyone enter a building at the front, facial recognition could allow for multiple entrances on all sides, Rainwater speculates.’ ’In other words, a building could be the security guard that checks your ID.’ ’’ ’’ ’One heartening sign:  off the coast of Rhode Island. In the future, cities could see huge wind farms and solar arrays located in designated spaces  —   in addition to highly efficient rooftop solar arrays and    —   quietly powering the luxuries future societies have come to expect of their cities.’