’  ’ ’   WASHINGTON  —   Donald Trump’’s decision to take a  and ”genius” at figuring out how   to minimize his tax bill, two of the Republican presidential   nominee’s advisers said on Sunday. ’ ’   ”This is a perfectly legal application of the tax code. And he   would have been fool not to take advantage of it,” said Rudy   Giuliani, the former New York mayor who is one of Trump’’s   advisers. ’ ’   Speaking on the ABC program ”This Week,” Giuliani said that as a   business owner Trump had a ”fiduciary duty” to the investors in   his   company to maximize profits. ’ ’   ”He’’s a genius at how to take advantage of legal remedies that   can help your company survive and grow,” Giuliani said. ’ ”   The New York Times reported on Saturday that it had obtained   Trump’s 1995 tax records, and it  for that year may have allowed him to avoid   paying federal income taxes for up to 18 years. ” ’’ ’   The tax benefits stemmed from financial deals Trump made that   went bad in the early 1990s. ’ ”   The Trump campaign, in a statement responding to the Times report   on Saturday, said the tax document was obtained illegally and   accused The New York Times of operating as an extension of the   presidential campaign of Hillary Clinton, Trump’s rival in the   November 8 election. ” ’   Chris Christie, the New Jersey governor and head of Trump’’s   presidential transition team, said Trump’’s records showed that   the US tax code was an ”absolute mess” and that Trump was the   best person to fix it. ’ ’   ”There’’s no one who has shown more genius in their way to   maneuver about the tax code as he rightfully used the laws to do   that,” Christie said on ”Fox News Sunday.” ’ ’   But Clinton spokesman Brian Fallon said the tax     declared by Trump ”shows the colossal scale of his business   failures” and also shows that the wealthy   developer   operates under a different set of rules than those that apply to   ordinary taxpayers. ’ ’   Clinton has repeatedly called on Trump to release his tax   returns, as is standard procedure for modern presidential   candidates. ’ ’   Trump has declined to release his tax records, saying he will not   do so until an audit of his returns by the Internal Revenue   Service is complete. ’ ’   The IRS has said an audit does not bar an individual from sharing   his or her own tax information. ’ ’ (Additional reporting by Susan Cornwell and Lindsay Dunsmuir;   Editing by Caren Bohan and Nick Zieminski) ’