Good morning. (Want to get California Today by email? Sign up.) Let’s turn it over to Jennifer Medina, a national correspondent based in Los Angeles, for today’s introduction. The automated voice mail went out to every public school parent in San Francisco. “We are committed to providing a safe space for learning for each and every one of our students, including recent immigrants regardless of immigration status. We will continue to uphold San Francisco’s sanctuary city for all immigrants. ” Like major cities around the country, San Francisco city leaders have vowed to maintain their status as a “sanctuary city” for undocumented immigrants, limiting local law enforcement cooperation with federal immigration authorities. But students and parents continued to express anxiety over the election of Donald J. Trump. “A lot of students are coming to school with a lot of distress, there are students who genuinely fear for their future stability in the community based on the things they heard during the campaign,” said Gentle Blythe, a spokeswoman for the San Francisco Unified School District. “I don’t think any of those students or those families are in any way reassured about any potential risk that would come in the new administration. ” The message, along with a lengthy letter, was sent in English, Spanish, Chinese, Arabic, Vietnamese and Tagalog. Roughly   of the district’s students are immigrants, but there is no way to know how many are undocumented. San Francisco is not alone in its efforts to reassure students. The Los Angeles Unified School District is opening additional centers to direct parents to social services and legal help in light of the election. The University of California also reaffirmed its commitment to help undocumented students last week, saying it would not hand over any information about undocumented students without court orders. And the university’s president, Janet Napolitano, urged Mr. Trump to keep the program that grants temporary reprieve to young undocumented immigrants brought here as children. And on Monday, Kevin de León, the Senate president pro tem, introduced a package of bills intended to help undocumented immigrants by helping to provide legal representation, further limit local law enforcement cooperation and train public defenders on immigration law. It seems clear this is just the beginning of the state’s battle with a Trump administration over undocumented immigrants. • Oakland’s warehouse fire shows how rising rents can push desperate people toward unsafe housing. [The New York Times] • Derick Ion Almena, the manager of the Ghost Ship warehouse, gave an anguished interview: “I’m so sorry. I’m incredibly sorry. ” [Today] • Santa Ana declared itself a sanctuary city, making it the first in Orange County to do so. [Orange County Register] • A California Ku Klux Klan leader was arrested in a North Carolina stabbing hours before a Klan parade celebrating Donald Trump’s election. [Los Angeles Times] • Formerly incarcerated undergraduates at U. C. Berkeley started a group to offer support to other former inmates. [The New Yorker] • Last year, Google used as much energy as San Francisco. In 2017, Google says, it will run on renewable energy alone. [The New York Times] • Donald Trump is summoning tech leaders to a   meeting. [The New York Times] • Wells Fargo, based in San Francisco, is trying to kill customer lawsuits over fake accounts by moving them to arbitration. [The New York Times] • After four painful years, San Bernardino will soon emerge from bankruptcy. [Los Angeles Times] • Rashaan Salaam, a Heisman Trophy winner from San Diego, was found dead in Colorado. He was 42. [The New York Times] • With nine nods for “Lemonade,” Beyoncé has more Grammy nominations than any other artist. [The New York Times] • Alia Shawkat, the actress, grew up working in Hollywood but never fell prey to its homogeneous beauty standards. [The New York Times] • TV Review: Hulu’s “Shut Eye” follows a scheming,   psychic in Los Angeles. [The New York Times] In   running, the lighter your gear the better. So two runners who embarked last week on a   relay to Sacramento from Los Angeles were in a world of hurt given their unorthodox clothing  —   full police uniforms. Pain, however, was part of the idea. Known as Project Endure, the run by Officers Joe Cirrito and Kristina Tudor of the Los Angeles Police Department was devised to honor slain officers and raise money for their families. Late Monday,   in Sacramento cheered the officers along as they reached their final destination at a police memorial near the State Capitol. There, after eight consecutive days of running, they both wept, Officer Cirrito, 47, said on Tuesday. “I’ve never felt that kind of emotion before. ” The officers each averaged 20 or so miles a day, sleeping in shifts of roughly four hours in a recreational vehicle and the occasional hotel room or firehouse. By about Day 4, Officer Cirrito was in dire straits, he said. His feet were bleeding inside his tactical boots. At one point he stopped to say hello to a man who turned up along the route with his    daughter. “He said: ‘This is my daughter and she’s fighting cancer. She’s my warrior. And it was important for me to come out here so she could meet another warrior,’” Officer Cirrito said. “My heart broke. I didn’t know what to say. And I just pushed. I pushed more and more that night. ” According to records kept by the Officer Down Memorial Page, which tracks killings of police officers, 11 law enforcement officers have died in the line of duty this year in California. The most recent case was on Nov. 13 in the city of Hughson, near Modesto, where Deputy Dennis Wallace of the Stanislaus County Sheriff’s Department was fatally shot. When Officers Cirrito and Tudor ran through the county over the weekend they were given an escort of police and fire vehicles with flashing lights. California Today goes live at 6 a. m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes. com. The California Today columnist, Mike McPhate, is a   Californian  —   born outside Sacramento and raised in San Juan Capistrano. He lives in Davis. Follow him on Twitter. California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and attended U. C. Berkeley.