’  ’ ’State   Department spokesman John Kirby confirmed in a  Monday. ’ ’   ”This was not a decision that was taken lightly,” the statement   said. ’ ’   ”The US spared no effort in negotiating and attempting to   implement an arrangement with Russia aimed at reducing the   violence, providing unhindered humanitarian access, and degrading   terrorist organizations operating in Syria. ’ ’   ”Unfortunately, Russia failed to live up to its own commitments,”   the statement continued. ”Including its obligations under   international humanitarian law and UNSCR 2254.” ’ ’   UNSCR 2254 is the UN Security Council Resolution adopted in   December 2015 calling for a   and political settlement   in Syria. ’ ’   ”Rather, Russia and the Syrian regime have chosen to pursue a   military course, inconsistent with the Cessation of Hostilities,   as demonstrated by their intensified attacks against civilian   areas, targeting of critical infrastructure such as hospitals,   and preventing humanitarian aid from reaching civilians in need,”   the statement said. ’ ’   Russian foreign ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said the US   is trying to shift blame onto Russia by suspending the talks,   according to Reuters. ’ ”     Russian news agency RIA Novosti    that in response to the US move, Putin may order Russia’s   Duma to pass a bill that would allow Russia to maintain a   military presence in Syria indefinitely. ” ’  ’ ’   The formal suspension comes  US Secretary of State John Kerry first   threatened to cut off the negotiations.  ’ ’   Kerry told his Russian counterpart Sergei Lavrov in a phone call   last week that the US was preparing to ”suspend     bilateral engagement on Syria . .. unless Russia takes immediate   steps to end the assault on Aleppo” and restore a  . ’ ’   The State Department  about the call, saying ”the secretary made clear   the United States and its partners hold Russia responsible for   this situation, including the use of incendiary and bunker buster   bombs in an urban environment, a drastic escalation that puts   civilians at great risk.” ’ ’   Hundreds of people  in the worst bombings on the     eastern half of Aleppo since the war began in 2011. ’ ’  ’ ’   The bombings, which have also targeted rescue services in the   city, punctuated the collapse of a fragile   brokered   between the US and Russia earlier this month. ’ ’   On Friday, Lavrov told the BBC that the US  ”still, in spite   of many repeated promises and commitments. .. are not able or not   willing to” separate the moderate opposition they support with   former al Qaeda elements. ’ ’   ”We have more and more reasons to believe that from the very   beginning the plan was to spare Nusra and to keep it just in case   for Plan B or stage two when it would be time to change the   regime,” Lavrov said, referring to former   affiliate   Jabhat  . Nusra cut ties with the terror organization in   August and rebranded itself as  ’ ’ called the allegations ”absurd.” ’ ’  ’ ’   The   bilateral channel was part of a deal   between the US and Russia  in Syria and share   intelligence about terrorist positions. That deal had been   jeopardized by the latest   offensive on Aleppo,   however, with American and Russian diplomats exchanging   diplomatic jabs early last week. ’ ’   ”What Russia is sponsoring and doing is not counterterrorism  —   it   is barbarism,” Samantha Power, the US ambassador to the United   Nations, told member nations at a UN Security Council meeting   last Sunday. ’ ’   Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov responded by calling the language   ”unacceptable.” ’ ’   A Joint Implementation Center was being set up in Jordan,   where the US and Russia were set to coordinate their activities   in Syria. But all personnel who had been dispatched to the center   in anticipation of the   deal were going to be withdrawn. ’ ’   ”To ensure the safety of our respective military personnel and   enable the fight against Daesh, the US will continue to utilize   the channel of communications established with Russia to     counterterrorism operations in Syria,” Kirby said. ’ ’   The State Department’’s announcement came hours after Russian   President Vladimir Putin suspended a treaty with Washington on   cleaning up   plutonium over the US’’s ”unfriendly   acts.” ’