’  ’ ’   Hurricane Matthew will likely strike Florida, Georgia, and South   Carolina on Friday. ’ ’   It will likely make landfall in Florida as a powerful Category 4   or Category 3 storm. It should weaken somewhat as it moves north,   but it would still pack a significant punch. ’ ’   Gov. Nikki Haley of South Carolina  along the coast, according   to CNN. The governors of Florida and Georgia have declared states   of emergency and have asked residents to prepare. Several barrier   islands in Florida have also begun evacuations. As far north as   North Carolina, officials are asking tourists to cut short their   vacations. ’ ’  ’ ”   Mandatory hurricane evacuations are significant and should be   taken seriously. But they aren’t necessarily a sign of   catastrophe either. As the federal government writes on its    it’s not uncommon to see one or two in a year. ” ’   The eye of Hurricane Matthew, the most powerful Atlantic storm   since 2007, hit Cuba on Wednesday morning as the major tropical   cyclone advanced toward the Bahamas. ’ ”   The Washington Post reports that the extent of the destruction in   Haiti, the Western Hemisphere’s poorest nation, is  with 145 mph winds.   International aid teams are struggling to reach areas cut off by   mudslides and   bridges. ” ”   Having calmed somewhat  —   though still a major, 120 mph Category 3   hurricane  —   Matthew’s path toward the US has grown clearer. It’s   projected to be right off the coast of Florida by Thursday   evening, and it’s  to make landfall in Florida very early Friday   morning. ” ’  ’ ’   Hurricane warnings are in effect across much of the eastern coast   of Florida, with hurricane watches in the north and tropical   storm watches in the south. Florida has not been hit by a   hurricane since Wilma in 2005. ’ ’   Projecting more than three days into the future is difficult with   hurricanes, but a major strike to the Northeast has grown less   likely in the last 24 hours. It appears likely that Matthew will   turn out to sea before reaching Virginia or the Northeast. ’