’  ’ ’   It was during his freshman year of high school that Amit Kalra   started falling behind in math class. ’ ”   But it wasn’t because he couldn’t handle it. Kalra, now 16, had   been transferred to a new school where he was put into an algebra   class he had already taken. And by the time he convinced his mom   to put him back in the old school, he was halfway behind in   geometry, a subject he wasn’t familiar with. ” ’   ”I started struggling,” Kalra told Business Insider. “I was on my   own. I didn’t know anyone in the class. ” ’ ’   Most kids would have given up and resigned themselves to summer   school, or maybe even studied extra hard just to get by. ’ ’   Kalra decided to build an app that would do all his math homework   for him. ’ ”   In May 2015, Kalra started working on what would become his iOS   app, 6284 Calc. Needless to say, it’s not like any other   calculator app you’ve ever seen. ” ”   That’s because it’s specifically made to take the guesswork out   of algebra, geometry, calculus, and other subjects, by allowing   users to input the values into the given formula, letting the app   do the rest. And for a one time   purchase of $1. 99, it will   even give you all the steps it took to get there. ” ’   ”What if this app just does the work for them?” Kalra asked of   students who may be struggling like he was, thinking they might   just skip homework. ”They just have to spend five minutes a day   entering values. It’s better than turning in nothing. ” ’ ’  ’ ”   Kalra didn’t have much iOS coding knowledge before 6284 Calc,   except for little test projects like a random lottery number   generator app he built for his dad. He ended up teaching himself   how to code by downloading an ebook and experimenting. ” ”   But just roughly four months after he began, Kalra released 6284   Calc  —   the numbers represent     on a telephone keypad  —   and   he’s been updating it ever since. ” ’   “Every time I learn something in class, the first thing I do   instead of doing the homework, I would actually go work on it in   the app first,” he said. ’ ”   Since the app’s release, it’s had about 30, 000 downloads, though   Kalra has done little marketing other than to text all his   friends to try it out. ” ’   It also caught the attention of Apple,  to attend the Worldwide Developer Conference earlier this   year. ’ ”   Kalra’s story of app coding goes back a little bit further to   when he was a typical teenager playing video games. One of his   favorites was Roblox, a massive multiplayer online game that   allows players to explore inside a virtual world. ” ’   And as most teens can relate, his parents weren’’t all that   approving of his hobby. ”What are you doing all day?” was a   common refrain. But he learned that he could also build his own   worlds and games inside Roblox when he was 12, so he downloaded   an ebook and decided to give it a shot. ’ ’   ”That’’s where my interest for coding came in,” Kalra said, since   Roblox encourages ”you to make your own games. ” ’ ”   It took him about six months. The result was Parkour City, a big   open   space where users could jump around and do all   kinds of flips and other moves. Though it’s taken a while to get   noticed, this summer it hit the 1 million visit mark, and it’s   been on Roblox’s top charts. ” ’   I asked Kalra what he’’s planning to do after high school. He said   that for now, 6284 Calc is his main focus, but he might try to   work on something new. Though plans to go to college might   not be in the cards: “I don’t know if college would be beneficial   to me,” he said. ’ ’   For a teenager who can download some books and just figure things   out, that calculation may turn out to be just right. ’