’  ’ ”   In theory, this was the debate America apparently desired. In   reality, all the available evidence suggests they didn’t. ” ’   For months, the personal,    element woven into   the fabric of the 2016 presidential race had been decried. ’ ”   Americans deserve better, the talking heads said. The race for   the most important office in the world should be debated on   measures of important policy and substance, not     gossip. Less talk about Donald Trump’s fights with Miss Universe   and more about the candidates’ distinct     differences, for instance. ” ’   Well, that’s exactly what Tuesday’s vice presidential     between Indiana Gov. Mike Pence and Sen. Tim Kaine delivered  —     and instead of being praised, it was largely panned as boring. ’ ”   In   viewers weren’t impressed. Take a look at some of   the reaction on Twitter: ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tVP debate living up to the hype! Every bit as boring as we thought it would be. ’t’t’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tForgot what it’s like when two evenly matched, rational and experienced politicians debate on the national stage. It’s boring. ’t’t” ’ ’ ” ’t’t’  A few thoughts on tonight’s debate, the Duel of the Dads, the Battle of the Boring. ..’t’t” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tThat debate was like those boring featherweight opening act fights before the main heavyweight title event. ’ ”   They didn’t look thrilled in the crowd, either. ” ’   Here’s a Reuters photo of the Longwood University audience.   Attendees were not as engrossed as the pundits may have led you   to predict: ’ ’  ’ ’   And the evidence afterward confirmed the lackluster     sentiment. The event amassed less than half the audience that   tuned into last week’s   presidential debate, and   it garnered the lowest vice   ratings since   2000: ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tBetween CBS, NBC, ABC, Fox, CNN, Fox News and MSNBC, looks like around 36 million viewers for VP debate. Less than   of Prez debate’t’t’ ’   As it turns out, the broader electorate  —   and even those in the   political world  —   is not very intrigued by lengthy   discussions on   reform, America’s posture in   Eastern Europe, or taxes. ’ ’   What people actually want is a fight. ’ ”   Voters may not openly admit it, but they crave the kind of gutter   campaign Trump has run this election cycle. It’s in fact   precisely this kind of politics people most want to consume  —     politics spliced with plenty of drama. ” ’   And perhaps there is nothing wrong with that.  ’ ’     discussions on public policy are certainly not   everyone’s cup of tea. Watching a presidential   candidate lob personal insults at another onstage for   90 minutes, on the other hand, is entertaining and an easy   concept to grasp. ’ ’   But it does seem jarring for the very people who complain   about the election being a circus to yawn when it isn’t one. ’ ”   If reaction to last night’s debate proved one thing, it’s that   America doesn’t want a civil debate. It wants a fight, but still   isn’t ready to admit it. ”