’  ’ ’   Hurricane Matthew is barreling into southeastern United States as   a  category 3 storm. ’ ’   Meteorologist Eric Holthaus, in  on Thursday  —   when the   cyclone was stronger, yet expected to weaken  —   said ”Matthew   is a storm unlike any yet seen” in some parts of Florida. ’ ’   ”Since weather records began in 1851,  (Category 4, with   sustained winds of at least 135 mph that the National Hurricane   Center  as   ’’catastrophic’’) has ever made landfall in Florida north of West   Palm Beach,” Holthaus said. ’ ’   The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)   hurricane hunters who are  and an international fleet of   satellites are keeping close tabs on the situation. ’ ’   The above image is a composite of several images taken by    around 8 a. m. EDT on Friday,   October 7, 2016. Because it was taken in the dark, it’’s 100% not     : It’’s infrared weather data layered on top of NASA’’s   ”” satellite images. ’ ’   The following image is a composite made in daylight by NOAA   satellites on Wednesday, October 5. The large size of Matthew   compared to nearby landmasses is clear: ’ ’  ’ ’   NOAA and NASA also provided this   image: ’ ’  ’ ”   And this is an animated sequence showing Matthew’s path from   October  : ” ’ ’ ’   Astronauts and cosmonauts are also getting  of   the storm from the International Space Station, as they fly about   200 miles above it every 90 minutes: ’ ’  ’ ’   Hurricane hunters who flew through Matthew on Friday morning    and even stronger gusts. ’ ’   The NOAA said on Friday morning that Matthew is ”hugging” onto   Florida’’s eastern coast and headed for a destructive spree up the   shoreline at a speed of about 13 mph. ’ ’   The most recent computer simulations of the storm suggest it   could blow out to sea, loop back, and  with whatever remnants are left. ’ ”   The National Hurricane Center (NHC) has also issued a hurricane   warning for Georgia’s and much of South Carolina’s coasts: ” ’  ’ ’   In a  NOAA said the storm could have   ”potentially disastrous impacts for Florida.” Areas that bear the   brunt of the storm can expect torrential rain, incredibly   damaging winds, powerful storm surges, and flooding. ’