’  ’ ’   Fox News on Wednesday found itself on the defensive over a   correspondent it had been hoping to promote as a younger, more   playful presence on the network. ’ ’   Fox News correspondent Jesse Watters, who hosts recurring short   segments on ”The O’’Reilly Factor,” became the subject of intense   criticism after a segment aired this week that showed him   interviewing pedestrians in New York City’’s Chinatown   neighborhood. ’ ’   Critics suggested it engaged in confused, longtime racial   stereotypes of  . Despite Watters ostensibly being   on a mission to discuss the role of China in the 2016   presidential election, his interview progressed to him quizzing   passersby about whether it was the ”year of the dragon,” asking   subjects if he needed to bow to them, and inquiring about karate. ’ ’   After the segment aired Wednesday, the Asian American Journalists   Association sought an apology from Fox. ’ ’   ”It’’s 2016. We should be far beyond tired, racist stereotypes and   targeting an ethnic group for humiliation and objectification on   the basis of their race,” Paul Cheung, president of the AAJA,   said in a statement. ”Sadly, Fox News proves it has a long way to   go in reporting on communities of color in a respectful and fair   manner.” ’ ’   The segment also caught the attention of elected officials,   earning condemnation from New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio and   Sen. Brian Schatz of Hawaii, among others: ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tJesse Watters is unfunny and mean. He should be ashamed of himself. Also, he’s not welcome to Honolulu Chinatown. ’t’t” ’   In a series of tweets late Wednesday, the ”O’’Reilly Factor”   correspondent offered an apology to anyone who ”found offense”   with his segment: ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tAs a political humorist, the Chinatown segment was intended to be a light piece, as all Watters World segments are. ’t’t’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tMy     interviews are meant to be taken as    and I regret if anyone found offense. ’t’t’ ’   But it comes at an inopportune time for the Fox News personality,   whom the network had been promoting to media. Fox News postponed   an interview between Watters and Business Insider on Thursday   that was scheduled before the segment aired. ’ ’   Watters is no stranger to controversy, though rarely has his work   been as widely criticized. Since joining ”The O’’Reilly Factor” in   2003, the correspondent has verbally sparred with celebrities   like Rosie O’’Donnell and been the subject of ridicule on programs   like ”The Colbert Report.” ’ ’   Huffington Post editor Amanda Terkel criticized Watters for   tracking her down in 2009 and confronting her about one of her   articles while she was on vacation. (Disclaimer: Terkel is a   former colleague of this Business Insider reporter.) ’ ”   This incident sparked a  at a 2016 White House   Correspondents Dinner party between Watters and Huffington Post   DC Bureau Chief Ryan Grim, who reportedly asked Watters to   apologize to Terkel and mocked Watters’   interviews. ” ’   For his part, Watters has acknowledged that his segments   occasionally elicit criticism. The correspondent  that he often pokes fun at himself   and does not mean to offend anyone with his segments. ’