’  ’ ’   Prominent Republicans issued blistering responses to newly   disclosed audio of Donald Trump published Friday by The   Washington Post in which he said he was able to   ’ ’   ”No woman should ever be described in these terms or talked about   in this manner. Ever,” Republican National Committee Chair Reince   Priebus said in an extraordinary response about the party’’s   presidential nominee just more than a month ahead of the November   8 election. ’ ’   The recording, which was picked up by a hot mic, came from an   interaction between Trump and television personality Billy Bush   and featured the pair using extraordinarily vulgar language to   describe women. ’ ”   Priebus’ comments were echoed by a number of top GOP leaders  —     those in the party’s congressional leadership, the party’s former   presidential nominees, and Trump’s former primary rivals   among them. At least two elected Republican officials called   on Trump to drop out of the race. ” ’   ”Hitting on married women? Condoning assault? Such vile   degradations demean our wives and daughters and corrupt America’’s   face to the world,” 2012 GOP nominee Mitt Romney wrote on   Twitter. ’ ’   House Speaker Paul Ryan said he was ”sickened” by Trump’’s   comments and disinvited him from a planned joint event Saturday   in Wisconsin with Priebus and Sen. Ron Johnson. Trump said he   would send his running mate, Indiana Gov. Mike Pence, to the   event in his place while he prepares for Sunday’’s presidential   debate in New York with Priebus and New Jersey Gov. Chris   Christie. ’ ’   ”I hope Mr. Trump treats this situation with the seriousness it   deserves and works to demonstrate to the country that he has   greater respect for women than this clip suggests,” Ryan said. ’ ’   Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell echoed Ryan, calling   Trump’’s comments ” ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   In a Friday statement from Trump, which came almost immediately   after the story was posted, Trump called his commentary   ”locker room banter.” ’ ’   ”This was locker room banter, a private conversation that took   place many years ago,” Trump said. ”Bill Clinton has said far   worse to me on the golf course  —   not even close. I apologize if   anyone was offended.” ’ ”   The tape began with Trump discussing a failed attempt to   seduce a woman. That woman’s name was not mentioned in the   tape. ” ’   ”I moved on her and I failed,” he said. ”I’ll admit it.” ’ ’   According to the Post, the tape was recorded several months after   he married his third wife, Melania. ’ ’   ”I did try and     her,” Trump later said. ”She was married.   . .. And I moved on her very heavily. In fact, I took her out   furniture shopping. She wanted to get some furniture. I said,   ’’I’ll show you where they have some nice furniture. ’’” ’ ’   ”I moved on her like a      but I couldn’t get there,” he   continued. ”And she was married. Then all of a sudden I see her,   she’s now got the big phony     and everything. She’s   totally changed her look.” ’ ’   At that point, Trump and Bush noticed the actress, Arianne   Zucker, who was waiting to take them onto the set. ’ ’   ”I’ve gotta use some tic tacs, just in case I start kissing her,”   Trump said. ”You know I’m automatically attracted to beautiful  —     I just start kissing them. It’s like a magnet. Just kiss. I don’t   even wait.” ’ ’   ”And when you’re a star they let you do it,” Trump continued.   ”You can do anything. . .. Grab them by the    . You can do   anything.” ’ ”   The release of the audio comes two days before Trump and   Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton are scheduled to   meet for the second of three debates. Clinton brought up Trump’s   history of crude comments about women during their first   encounter. Earlier this week, Trump suggested many of those past   comments  ” ’ ’