’’ ’From October 7, 2001, until December 28, 2014, US and NATO forces carried out combat operations in Afghanistan.’ ’While those operations were meant to end and the US had begun withdrawing troops from the country by the end of 2014, the Taliban continued success on the battlefield, coupled with the ineffective performance Afghan security forces, led the US to continue its deployment in the country, which has seen decades of wars fought by numerous combatants.’ ’Overall, the US has a force of  Afghanistan, though President Barack Obama intended to reduce that force to 5, 500 in 2017, the continued Taliban threat has caused  with some 8, 400 troops slated to remain in Afghanistan at the end of next year.’ ’Most NATO forces withdrew from Afghanistan at the end of 2014.’ ’By the end of that year,  amounted to 3, 500 killed and 33, 000 wounded. Those loses included 2, 400 dead and 20, 000 wounded for the US; 453 and 7, 500 for Great Britain; 159 and 1, 859 for Canada; and 89 and 725 for France, though those numbers do not include   contractors.’ ’Since 2001, t’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’Eyewitnesses said they saw flashes and heard explosions over the Afghan capital of Kabul in the first phase of what the US has said will be a protracted and   war against terrorism and the states that support it. The attack had been prepared since the September 11 suicide attacks on the US. ’ ’The US and Britain hit Afghanistan and key installations of the Taliban regime with cruise missiles Sunday night for harboring suspected terrorist Osama bin Laden. Many residents of Afghanistan seem unfazed by the bombing after living in war like conditions for more than 20 years.’ ’The Pentagon said on   dropped heavy loads of bombs, a tactic known as carpet bombing, on Taliban troops north of Kabul as a result of improved targeting intelligence, partly from US special forces on the ground.’ ’There were some 4, 000 US troops based in Afghanistan as part of the international war against terrorism.’ ’The war in Afghanistan was the first time robots were used by the US military as tools for combat. Proponents of the robots believed sending them first into caves, buildings, or other dark areas will help prevent US casualties.’ ’Suspected enemy fighters were spotted taking ambush positions in the area a few weeks ago by US troops as they went on patrol as part of the ongoing war against terrorism.’ ’A     project to disarm, demobilize, and reintegrate 100, 000 soldiers across Afghanistan was under way in the north, a key step that was hoped would bring eventual peace to this   country. The ”New Beginnings Programme,” which lets soldiers exchange their weapons for jobs, began in the northern province of Kunduz.’ ’A US military helicopter carrying up to 20 American troops crashed during an   mission in eastern Afghanistan, US officials said. The fate of those on board was not immediately known.’ ’Rumsfeld said a rapid withdrawal of US forces from Iraq or Afghanistan would spawn more terrorism in the region and raise the risk of attacks on the US. Addressing US troops on the second day of a visit to Afghanistan, Rumsfeld said, ”there are some in Washington who are questioning why our country is fighting this difficult war on terror half a world away. ”’ ”Gates on May 11, 2009, replaced the top US and NATO commander in Afghanistan, US Army General David McKiernan, less than a year after he took over the war effort there. Gates said he asked for McKiernan’s resignation and recommended Army Lt. Gen. Stanley McChrystal, a former commander of   forces, to take over command of 45, 000 US troops and about 32, 000 other troops from   NATO countries.”