’  ’ ’   When a group of Snapchat employees got locked out of their   building one Monday morning, they quickly realized their   predicament was no accident. ’ ’   A   Snapchat team had ’ ’   The incident was both jarring and typical of the chaotic life at   the fast growing Los Angeles tech startup. ’ ’   At Snapchat,  secrecy and upheaval   come with the job. Evan Spiegel, the    cofounder and   CEO, moves across the company’s network of Venice Beach outposts   in a black Range Rover, flanked by his security detail. New   employee orientations begin with a Fight   list of   forbidden topics of discussion. And internal projects blossom out   of nowhere  —   and vanish suddenly  —   without explanation. ’ ’  ’ ’   Business Insider spoke to more than a dozen current and former   Snap employees and people close to the company to get a picture   of the inner workings of the organization as it  that’s   expected to value the company at $25 billion. ’ ’   Many describe a rocketship helmed by a confident and visionary   CEO with an intuitive knack for creating products that click with   younger users. But Snap is also an organization struggling to   create a sense of cohesion within its swelling ranks and locked   to a   and polarizing culture that leaves many employees   frustrated. ’ ’   “I definitely didn’t feel as if I was a valued part of the team,”   says one departee, citing the secretive culture. “When you don’t   know what’s going on and just read about it in the headlines, it   makes you feel like an outsider. You feel like a fool. ” ’ ’   For Spiegel and Snap, bringing the team together without losing   the magic will be critical as it evolves from a mobile app into a   more ambitious “camera company” that will face the pressures and   the unforgiving spotlight of the public market. ’ ’  ’ ’   Spiegel models himself on Apple founder Steve Jobs, whose   portrait hangs in Spiegel’s office. And Jobs’ famous obsession   with secrecy and control are traits that Snap insiders say define   Spiegel as well. ’ ”   While other Snap employees and executives sit next to each other   in an open floor plan, Spiegel’s office towers over the   building’s old lobby at the top of a flight of stairs. The   door to the office is locked and protected by a special keypad. ” ’   ’ ’   Snap’s  are just the first   piece of an ambitious expansion plan that underscores the   broad changes coming to the    company. The     Snap Labs group overseeing the Spectacles is such a priority that   the group earlier this year set a goal of hiring 200 people in   just sixty days, according to the staffer who left. The hiring   plan was especially aggressive  for a company whose total   headcount is just above 1, 000 employees. ’ ”   Snap has looked at various types of wearable cameras in addition   to the Spectacles, including small   video cameras, and it   has had acquisition talks with several camera companies, the   person said. Snap also sees big opportunities in augmented   reality and virtual reality technologies, which overlay digital   elements into a user’s field of view. ” ’   The flip side of that rapid growth is the cold alacrity with   which the unwanted are cut loose. When Snap decided last month   that it no longer needed  for its   service, the members of the team were summoned for a meeting. ’ ”   To the group’s surprise, the meeting was in the security room,   where Snap’s security guards are stationed, according to one   person familiar with the matter. Nick Bell, Snap’s head of   content, walked into the room and summarily informed those   present that this was their last day at Snap. “It was very abrupt   and out of nowhere,” the person said. ” ’   Snap declined to comment for this story or to make Spiegel or   other executives available to interview. ’ ’   Many insiders report feeling out of touch with the company’s   mission or progress. Beyond vague statements like “building the   world’s best camera” and making “communication more real and   authentic,” there’s    communication inside Snap about   what’s in the pipeline. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   This strategy has been somewhat effective at quelling leaks,   but has also alienated people from knowing the direction the   company is going in. ’ ’  ’ ’   In one instance, the former exec recalled attempting to work   with other teams at Snap only to be labeled  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’    ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   And despite the idyllic oceanfront setting, the scattered offices   can also foster a sense of isolation and fiefdom between teams,   former employees told Business Insider. If people have to work   with multiple teams, like engineering and product design,   meetings often entail a   walk through Venice Beach to   get between buildings. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   But nothing lasts forever. ”If you’re guessing, you can guess   two, four, ten times right,” the former exec cautioned. ”But   there’s no guarantee you’re going to continue to be right. ”  ’ ’ Paul Szoldra contributed to this report. Editing by Alexei   Oreskovic. ’