’  ’ ’   Hurricane Matthew has moved on to the Carolinas and is currently   hitting the South Carolina coast with powerful winds, heavy   rain, and dangerous storm surge. The  ’ ’   The most intense part of the storm is expected to hover   near the coast of South Carolina throughout Saturday, moving   near the North Carolina coast Saturday night. It   is already causing serious inland flooding. ’ ”   Matthew’s winds have lessened slightly to 75 mph, though   higher gusts are still being measured. While the storm is now   less powerful than the   Category 4 monster it was   Thursday, it continues to threaten severe floods in   Georgia, South Carolina, and North Carolina, adding to the damage   it’s already caused. ” ’   As the  decreased winds do not mean the   storm is less dangerous. Storm surge and flash flooding caused by   rain are responsible for more than 75% of hurricane deaths in the   US. ’ ’   There are currently tornado  and    along the coast of both South and North Carolina,   and record setting rainfall inland is adding to the flood risks   in Georgia and the Carolinas. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tThe 17. 49” at Hunter Army Airfield in Savannah (meanwhile ”only” 11. 51’’ at Savannah Int’’l) shatters the previous record (POR since 1937)  ’ ’    The storm surge in parts of Georgia  and even at low tide, Matthew has   caused the second highest storm surge flooding in history in   downtown Charleston: ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tFlooding downtown Charleston SC,  #2 record storm surge from !  Should be low tide now, but instead over 7 FT water level at harbor  ’ ’    Just after 2 pm Friday, footage began to come in of a major   storm surge in Jacksonville, Florida. A video shared on Facebook   by user Bradley Hatcher captures a particularly dramatic angle: ’ ’ ’ ’   As the Washington Post  the first news of severe flooding arrived before   noon on Friday. Twitter posts show dangerous floodwaters in St.   Augustine and Daytona Beach. The St. Augustine sea wall has   ”vanished under the waves.” ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tSt Augustine sea wall has vanished under the waves.   ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’t20 people, including children, stuck in  bed & breakfast. They say they’re getting worried, as the surge is about to come in.  ” ’ ’ ’Severe Storm surge flooding continues in parts of Daytona Beach, FL. Lots of wind damage as well  ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tINCREDIBLE VIDEO: Watch as these waves crash into this Palm Coast house!    ’ ’   ”The video footage is revealing that the water is coming in with   extreme force,” said NHC storm surge specialist Jamie Rohme in a   video released on  ”You   can’’t swim in it. It can throw you up against a wall. The bottom   line is here is: It is   conditions.” ’ ’   He added, ”What’’s more disturbing about all this is how many   people you had in mandatory evacuation zones who are not   leaving,” saying residents up the coast with time to evacuate   should do so now. ’ ’   As Al Jazeera  the scale of destruction in Haiti, which took a   direct hit from Matthew, is devastating. The latest tallies put   the death toll at    up from 478 earlier Friday morning. That makes Matthew the   deadliest natural disaster in the country since the 2010   earthquake. ’ ”   Many of the deaths were in small towns on the western end of the   Tiburon Peninsula, including at least 50 in the coastal town of      and 90 more in Chantal, per Al Jazeera’s report. ” ’   Three people have been  in Florida, according to ABC News, and . ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tIncredible video of Hurricane  pummeling the coast of Florida near Daytona Beach   ’ ’   Floodwaters remain the most severe danger from Matthew, impacting   areas not used this kind of storm. Earlier Friday, southern parts   of Florida avoided the devastation of a .  ’ ’   Friday night, the NHC continued to  of the potential for a   storm surge of 6   to 9 feet from Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida to Edisto Beach, South   Carolina, including portions of the St. Johns River. Surges   of 5 to 7 feet are expected from Edisto Beach, South Carolina to   Cape Fear, North Carolina. And 2 to 4 feet are possible as   far north as Duck, North Carolina, and are also considered very   dangerous. ’ ’  ’ ”   Gov. Rick Scott of Florida has been urging residents to flee   areas under mandatory evacuation orders since Wednesday. Gov.   Nikki Haley of South Carolina also initiated evacuations along   her state’s coastline. ” ’   Tammy Smith, a resident physician in the University of Florida   hospital system, described to Business Insider a controlled but   hectic scene as evacuated patients arrived from   medical   centers along the Florida and Georgia coasts. Patients were   cleared out of the   unit to make room for the   sudden influx of new arrivals. ’ ’   WESH 2, a local NBC News affiliate in Florida,  that people who ignored orders to evacuate   found themselves cut off from aid as they faced the worst of the   storm. At least one Merritt Island family described to emergency   officials that the roof of their home ”just flew off.” ’ ’   Meteorologists are keeping an eye on Matthew as the threat of an   inland wobble remains severe. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tEye has gone more egg shaped . .. a wobble could rotate the northern eyewall over the coast north of Daytona Beach  ’ ’ This article was updated with news of the storm surge 11:27   am Saturday, with new news of power outages at 3:30 pm Friday,   and with new death tolls and forecast updates at 11:27 am. ’ ’ Rebecca Harrington contributed reporting. ’