’  ’ ’   Donald Trump held a surprise   press conference   with three women who have accused Bill Clinton of sexual   misconduct, and one woman who was a victim in a rape case in   which Hillary Clinton defended the accused. ’ ’   Appearing on stage with Trump were Paula Jones, Kathleen Willey,   Juanita Broaddrick, and Kathy Shelton. ’ ”   It’s a hint of how nasty the second presidential debate   in St. Louis, Missouri, Sunday night could get, with fallout   still . ” ’   Reporters at the conference, which was broadcast on  asked Trump at the start of the press   conference about the recording, in which Trump   talked  ’ ’   ”Mr. Trump does your star power allow you to touch women without   your consent?” a reporter asked. ’ ’’ ’   Trump brushed aside the question and immediately launched into a   prepared statement. ’ ’   ”These four very courageous women have asked to be here, and it   was our honor to help them,” Trump said. ’ ”   Jones, Willey, and Broaddrick have  former President Bill Clinton, Hillary Clinton’s   husband, of sexual misconduct. ” ’   All of the women expressed their support for Trump at the   conference. ’ ’   ”Actions speak louder than words,” Broaddrick said. ”Mr. Trump   may have said some bad words, but Bill Clinton raped me and   Hillary Clinton threatened me.”  ’ ’   ”I don’’t think there’’s any comparison,” she continued.  ’ ’   As Trump wrapped up the conference, a reporter asked, ”Why did   you say you touch women without their consent, Mr. Trump?” ’ ’   Paula Jones replied to that: ”Why don’’t you ask Bill Clinton   that?” ’ ’   The four women will appear in the debate hall Sunday night.  ’ ’   Jennifer Palmieri, the Clinton campaign’’s communications   director, said the ”stunt” was evident of Trump’’s ”race to the   bottom.” ’ ’   ”Hillary Clinton understands the opportunity in this town hall is   to talk to voters on stage and in the audience about the issues   that matter to them, and this stunt doesn’t change that,” she   said. ”If Donald Trump doesn’t see that, that’s his loss. As   always, she’s prepared to handle whatever Donald Trump throws her   way.” ’