’  ’ ’   Sarah Palin, the 2008 Republican vice presidential nominee and a   backer of current Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump,    ”disgusting.” ’ ’   But she also ripped the ”as offensive” media for its ”obsession”   with a ”very old conversation” in a . ’ ’   In the shocking recording from 2005, Trump was heard boasting   about being able to ”grab” women ”by the    ” because   ”when you’’re a star they let you do it.” ’ ’   The recording of Trump, which was picked up by a hot mic and   published by The Washington Post on Friday, came from an   interaction between Trump and television personality Billy Bush.   In addition to his comments about grabbing women ”by the   ”   Trump made a litany of other sexually suggestive remarks. ’ ’   ”Disgusting, shameful, totally disrespectful ’’locker room’’   garbage, privately shared between two Hollywood playboys over a   decade ago, is now made to be ’’the crudeness heard ’’round the   world,’’” the former Alaska governor wrote. ”The old Bush and   Trump braggart comments were beyond abhorrent and offensive,   though both boys apologized for them.” ’ ’’ ’   Palin then turned her focus to the press. ’ ’   ”As offensive, however, is media obsession with a very old   conversation between   figures when we’’re in a   crucial time facing   shifts in our future,” she   wrote. ”The Supreme Court, international tinderbox relationships,   global security, and our entire economy hang in the balance. With   the question of what kind of country we will leave our daughters   and sons unanswered, I wisely look at today’’s candidates’’   positions and what they have accomplished, while being well aware   there are no perfect candidates. I encourage all to quit putting   faith in flawed human beings.” ’ ’   The Alaska Republican said that by ”going around media filters,”   voters can ”clearly see” Trump as the more viable option for the   presidency than Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton. ’ ’   Palin also linked to a YouTube clip of a Fox News segment that   played a   recording of Clinton, then working as a   lawyer in Arkansas, discussing her defense of a defendant accused   of raping a    girl. ’ ’   ”In today’’s Presidential race, it’’s only telling which candidate   participated in cruder past conversations if both candidates’’   communications were all exposed, but alas, that won’’t happen,”   Palin wrote. ’ ’   She added, ”It’’s undeniable that it’’s only politics allowing   characterization of Trump’’s old comments as more outrageous and   offensive than Hillary’’s comments.” ’ ”   The other half of Palin’s 2008 ticket,   presidential   nominee and current Arizona Sen. John McCain, withdrew his   support for Trump earlier Saturday. ” ’   Trump addressed the matter in a Friday statement, in which he   called the comments ”locker room banter” and added that former   President Bill Clinton has said ”far worse to me on the golf   course.” ’ ’   That was later followed by a   video address, offering a   brief apology and saying he looked forward to the Sunday   night presidential debate. He posted a tweet Saturday morning to   call the past day ”certainly . .. interesting.” ’ ’   Almost immediately, Trump came under fire from those on both   sides of the aisle  —   as many top Republicans either strongly   condemned the comments or unendorsed the Manhattan billionaire   altogether. ’