’  ’ ’   Students at two Ivy League schools have received emails that   mention white genocide and Donald Trump. ’ ’   At Princeton University on Saturday, a number of students   received emails believed to be from a member of a     group called the ”White GeNOcide Project,” . ’ ’   The email said Donald Trump understands that diversity threatens   white people and that Princeton teaches ”white students that they   are immoral and contemptible if they don’t support White   Genocide.” ’ ’   Steve Goode, a representative for the White GeNOcide Project,   said the group is a grassroots movement, so they’’re unsure who   sent the emails, but he said he does ”agree with whoever sent   them” and thanked them ”for their activism,” The Princetonian   reported. ’ ’   At Harvard, students received similar emails on October 2 with   the subject line ”Fight White Genocide  —   Vote Trump!” which was   signed by Educators and Students Against White Genocide, . ’ ’ Harvard has asked university police   to investigate the matter. ’ ”   On the White GeNOcide Project’s website, a  has been made to members   of the Harvard and Princeton, as well as a third school: Yale. ” ’  ’ ’   The group’’s site also hit back at Harvard’’s response to the   emails by saying that ”Dean Khurana’s response illustrates   perfectly that you cannot have diversity and free speech.” ’ ”   It’s unclear exactly why the white supremacy group targeted the   Ivy League with its messaging, though certain schools within the   elite group have been a hotbed for issues of racial   discrimination and free speech. ” ”   Photographs of black professors at Harvard Law School were   defaced last year. That sparked outrage on campus, and at   Princeton students protested for the removal of Woodrow Wilson’s   name on campus, citing his ties to racism. ” ’   But perhaps racial tension has been most apparent at Yale, where   protests over several perceived incidents of racial   discrimination engulfed the campus and resulted in harsh scrutiny   from outside sources. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’