’  ’ ’   Ken Bone, the  who  told CNN on Monday that his now famous   red sweater was really his ”plan B” outfit. ’ ’   In his interview with CNN’’s Carol Costello, he revealed that his   original plan was to wear ”a really nice olive suit” until he hit   a snag. ’ ’   ”Yeah, I had a really nice olive suit that I love a great deal   and my mother would’’ve been really proud to see me wearing on   television,” he told the CNN host. ”But apparently I’’ve gained   about 30 pounds, and when I went to get into my car on the   morning of the debate, I split the seat of my pants all the way   open.” ’ ’   ”So the red sweater was plan B,” he continued, ”and I’’m glad it   worked out.” ’ ” focusing on how each candidate’s energy policy would   be good for the environment and jobs. Videos of him shaking hands   with former President Bill Clinton and taking photos with a   disposable camera went viral online, and soon a Facebook fan page   for the Missouri man gained thousands of followers. ” ’   In his   interview, Bone wore the same red sweater   that his newly found fans raved about online in the hours that   followed the debate. ’ ’   ”I don’’t see how I could have not worn the red sweater this   morning,” he said. ”It’’s more famous than me. I just had to bring   myself along.” ’ ’   His popularity also helped him grow his Twitter following   considerably. ’ ’   ”I went from last night having seven Twitter followers, two of   which were my grandmother because she had to remake her account   because she forgot her password, to now I have several hundred,”   Bone said. ”I don’’t know why they care what I have to say but I’’m   glad they’’re engaged in the political process.” ’ ’   He said the debate consisted of a lot of bickering between   Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton and Republican nominee Donald   Trump, saying that it ”felt like    fight” and that ”it   was really uncomfortable.” ’ ’   But the undecided voter added that he thought both presented   compelling, substantive arguments on the issues once viewers   could get past the vitriol. ’ ’ ’