’  ’ ”   After weeks of being batted around,  has retired.    His retirement, after a   career at the bank, was announced   Wednesday, and the bank’s COO, Tim Sloan, is the new chief   executive. ” ’   There were  but in the end,   Stumpf has no one to blame but himself. ’ ’   Stumpf first learned that employees were improperly opening   accounts under the name of customers without their knowledge in   2013. Between 2011 and 2015,  were opened by     employees. ’ ’   In September, the bank announced a $185 million settlement with   regulators over the matter, including paying back customers who   had an account opened for them. ’ ’   While this is bad enough, the real problems for Stumpf came   afterward. In response to the scandal, Stumpf responded   inadequately and ineffectively to pressure from lawmakers,   analysts, and investors. ’ ’   The perfect example of this came when Rep. Keith Ellison of   Minnesota repeatedly asked Stumpf about tactics used by     managers to force employees to make their sales   goals. These tactics had been reported by the news media. ’ ’   Instead of providing a definitive answer, Stumpf dodged the   question, saying, ”That’’s the first I’’ve ever heard of that.” ’ ’   It’’s fine for Stumpf to not admit guilt, but responding ”I don’’t   know” over and over again made it seem like he had ignored the   news surrounding his own bank leading up to the hearing. Even a   simple, ”We’’ve heard the accusations. We do not condone them or   believe they have happened, and we will investigate” would have   been better. ’ ’   Stumpf also couldn’’t answer questions such as  to be fired, instead saying it was ”the manager of a   manager of a manager.” ’ ’  ’ ’   In the early days of the scandal, it appeared as if Stumpf was   merely reactive to the scandal instead of proactive. ’ ’   The bank came under pressure over the large compensation package   of Carrie Tolstedt, the executive who oversaw the division   responsible for opening the fake accounts, for example. ’ ’   Stumpf then went in front  and tried to justify the fact   that Tolstedt retired and was allowed to keep her compensation. ’ ’   Only after being raked through the coals for the choice did   Stumpf and Tolstedt have  ’ ’   Both of these instances could have been headed off by Stumpf, but   instead of proactively taking concrete steps to appear remorseful   when the scandal broke, he waited until the issue became so big   he was forced to adjust course. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Ultimately, a lack of preparation, a seeming unwillingness to be   proactive, and a muddled message were all   wounds   that brought down John Stumpf. ’ ’ This is an editorial. The opinions and conclusions expressed   above are those of the author. ’