’  ’ ”   CNN host Brianna Keilar confronted Kellyanne Conway, Donald   Trump’s campaign manager, in a marathon interview lasting almost   a half an hour on Wednesday.  ” ”   The anchor clashed repeatedly with Conway over Trump’s response   to newly revealed lewd comments, conduct toward women, and the   billionaire’s ongoing tensions with House Speaker Paul Ryan. ” ’   Conway repeatedly laid into Clinton for her use of a private   email server while serving as secretary of state. ’ ”   The two sparred over Trump’s assertion that as president, he   would appoint a special prosecutor to jail Clinton for her use of   a private email server. ” ’   ”He’’s talking about going around the Democratic process, talking   about jailing your political opponent is something  — ” Keilar   said. ’ ’   ”No he’’s not. You’’re taking it literally,” Conway replied. ’ ’   ”I’’m talking about what your candidate is saying, which is more   important than what you are saying about this. Which is she has   to go to jail,” Keilar said. ’ ’   ”And? What are you saying?” Conway said. ”What Americans   want to know why she hasn’’t been punished at all and why news   outlets like this one think it’’s okay,” Conway said. ’ ’ ’ ”   Conway spent much of the interview critiquing CNN’s coverage of   the presidential race, arguing that her candidate had not   received fair coverage on the network. She  ” ’   And when Keilar asked why Trump continued attacking Ryan,   Conway accused CNN of not covering the speech. ’ ’   ”Has he finished with all the tweets and the comments about Paul   Ryan? Is he now turning off the spigot on that?” Keilar said. ’ ’   ”The spigot? Do you know what the theme of the first speech was?   Has CNN even covered it? It had a theme,” Conway quipped. ”I bet   you don’’t, because CNN didn’’t even cover it.” ’ ’   ”’’Did you attack somebody, did he tweet? ’’ You’’re doing a   disservice to the American people by not telling them exactly   everything, fully and fairly,” Conway said. ’ ’   ”We’’re not putting words in his mouth,” Keilar insisted. ’