Donald Glover  —   actor, comedian, writer, producer, rapper, songwriter  —   has set himself a complex cultural project: to both embody current   culture and reveal it to the wider world. He has done that on albums under his musical alias, Childish Gambino, and also as the driving force of “Atlanta,” the superb TV series on FX on which he is an executive producer, writer and actor, presenting a   corrective to the      fantasies of “Empire. ” “Awaken, My Love! ,” his third album as Childish Gambino, takes a sharp turn: from rapping to   singing and from contemporary production to unabashed throwback. The music directly recalls the 1970s RB before    —   the era of   Earth, Wind  Fire Stevie Wonder the Spinners the   the Ohio Players late Sly and the Family Stone and early Prince. It’s at once a homage and a parody, equally aware of that era’s excesses and its glories, of the way that the most memorable 1970s RB merged sensuality, activism, humor, toughness, outlandishness, futurism, soul roots, wild eccentricity and utopian community spirit. That’s an extremely high bar, but at its best, “Awaken, My Love!” recalls many of those virtues. “Have Some Love” and “Stand Tall” pick up the messages of countless soul and RB predecessors, calling for solidarity and  . And “Boogieman,” over a funky fuzztone riff, confronts racist assumptions that lead to rising violence. The album shares the perils of all revivalism: that it’s an emulation and pastiche rather than an invention, that it’s nostalgic rather than contemporary. Mr. Glover, born in 1983, never heard the music in its original time frame. But he inhabits it like an actor who’s done his homework to get fully immersed in a role. Mr. Glover’s longtime collaborator in Childish Gambino, the Swedish musician and producer Ludwig Goransson, realistically reconstructs the greasy guitar tones, sliding synthesizers, eager backup vocals, snappy drums and chattering clavinet of   production. And luckily, Mr. Glover can sing passably enough. He knows he’s not the one to put across a   love ballad he doesn’t try. But he’s   to more cartoonish 1970s approaches: yowls and cackles, grainy screams,   falsettos, zany swoops between speech and song. Sometimes Childish Gambino shares the songwriting credits directly with its influences, like the Funkadelic members behind the frantic funk of “Riot!” Other songs hold obvious echoes “Baby Boy,” a ballad that worries over fatherhood and custody, directly models its sparse arrangement on “Just Like a Baby” by Sly and the Family Stone. But Childish Gambino generally makes good use of what it borrows. “Zombies” deploys its    synthesizers to ooze along nicely as it sets up a     scenario that doubles as a warning about exploitation. “Redbone” and “Terrified,” two falsetto ballads laced with paranoia and fear, stay poised between plush   soul and synthesizer subversion. The songs don’t hide their   status. Mr. Glover often sings about lessons from elders and the responsibilities of parenthood. But Childish Gambino doesn’t invoke the comforts of nostalgia. The songs recognize, instead, that for all the changes in styles over the decades, other conditions persist  —   human needs and weaknesses, societal pressures  —   and that music still strives to face down the problems without stopping the party.