’  ’ ’   Drug criminalization in the United States has inflicted   devastating consequences on users while offering few, if any,   benefits to public safety, . ’ ’   The rights group issued a joint call with the American Civil   Liberties Union for nationwide decriminalization of all illicit   drugs, arguing that criminalization imposes crippling costs upon   users, their families, and taxpayers, and drives racial   discrimination and   abuses. ’ ’   ”Every 25 seconds in the United States, someone is arrested for   the simple act of possessing drugs for their personal use,” the   report said. ’ ’   Nowhere was this concept more powerfully demonstrated than in   Texas, where more than 16, 000 people were incarcerated in 2015   alone for possessing less than one gram of drugs, according to   the report. ’ ’   Texas defines the possession of such an amount as a ”state jail   felony,” even though the amount weighs less than a quarter of the   contents of a sugar packet. ’ ”   One of the dozens of inmates interviewed for the report, who was   given the pseudonym Matthew Russell, was sentenced to 15 years in   state prison for possessing an amount of methamphetamine so small   that the laboratory technician couldn’t even measure it. ” ’   It was instead designated a ”trace” amount, and the charge was   compounded with Russell’’s prior felony convictions to result in   his lengthy prison term. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”I’’m not guilty of what they charged me with. I didn’’t have any   drugs in my possession,” Russell told the report’’s author Tess   Borden. ”Am I guilty of being a drug user? Yes, I am. Did I use   drugs the day before? Yes, I did. I admitted that. But I didn’’t   have any drugs on me. I shouldn’’t be here.” ’ ’   In some cases, defendants found with drug paraphernalia  —   like   needles, pipes, or empty baggies  —   were arrested and charged with   drug possession simply because the paraphernalia contained trace   amounts of drug residue. ’ ’   The problem in these cases are the prosecutors responsible for   handling them, the report argued. Prosecutors have the authority   to reduce charges, dismiss cases, refuse to seek sentence   enhancements, or offer lenient plea deals. ’ ’   Police, similarly, have the discretion to not make possession   arrests for paraphernalia or residue cases, and judges can also   dismiss possession charges in those cases. Yet many states,   including but not limited to Texas, take a ”lock everyone up”   approach, the report found. ’ ’   ”The consequences of that philosophy play out in terms of human   lives,” the report argued. ’