’  ’ ’   In the   hours of October 12, the USS Nitze  at   radar sites in   Yemen and thereby  that has raged for 18 months. ’ ’   The  to previous incidents   where missiles fired from   Houthi territory had   threatened US Navy ships: the destroyers USS Mason and USS Nitze,   and the amphibious transport dock USS Ponce. ’ ’   After more than two decades of peaceful service, this was likely   the first time the US fired these defensive missiles in combat. ’ ’   ”These strikes are not connected to the broader conflict in   Yemen,” Pentagon spokesman Peter Cook said. ”Our actions   overnight were a response to hostile action.” ’ ”   But instead of responding to the attack with the full force of   two Arleigh     destroyers, the Navy’s   response was measured, limited, and in  . ” ’   Jonathan Schanzer, an expert on Yemen and Iran at the   Foundation for Defending Democracies, said the US’’s response fell   ”far short of what an appropriate response would be.” ’ ’   ”Basically, the US took out part of the system that would allow   for targeting, protecting themselves but not going after those   who fired upon them,” Schanzer told Business Insider. ’ ”   Even the limited strike places the US in a tricky situation   internationally and legally. The  to   preserve relations with Iran since negotiating and implementing   the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action to ensure Iran doesn’t   become a nuclear state. ” ’   But the pivot toward Iran, a Shia power, has ruffled   feathers in Saudi Arabia, a longtime US ally and the premier   Sunni power in the Middle East. ’ ’  ’ ’   By taking direct military action against the Houthi rebels, a   Shia group battling the internationally recognized government of   Yemeni President Abd Rabbu Mansour   the US has entered   into  —   even in a limited capacity  —   another war in the Middle   East with no end in sight. ’ ’  ’ ’ of the  told Business Insider that Iran   views Shia groups in the Middle East as ”integral elements to the   Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC).” ’ ’   Smyth confirmed to Business Insider the strong bond between Iran   and the Houthi uprising working to overthrow the government in   Yemen. ’ ’   According to Smyth, in many cases Houthi leaders go to Iran for   ideological and religious education, and Iranian and Hezbollah   leaders have been spotted on the ground advising the Houthi   troops. ’ ’   These Iranian advisers are likely responsible for training the   Houthis to use the type of sophisticated guided missiles fired at   the US Navy. ’ ’   For Iran, supporting the revolt in Yemen is ”a good way to bleed   the Saudis,” Iran’’s regional and ideological rival. Essentially,   Iran is backing the Houthis to fight against a     coalition of Gulf States fighting to maintain government control   of Yemen. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”The Iranians are looking at this from a very, very strategic   angle, not just bleeding Saudis and other Gulf States, but how   can they expand their ideological and military influence,” Smyth   said. ’ ”   Yemen presents an extremely attractive goal for enterprising   Iran. Yemen’s situation on the    Strait means that   control of that waterway  —   which they may have been trying to   establish with the missile strikes  —   would give them control over   the Red Sea, a massive waterway and choke point for commerce. ” ’  ’ ’   The US officially became a combatant in Yemen on Wednesday night.   In doing so, it has tacitly aligned with the   coalition   that has been tied to a brutal air blockade. ’ ’   The Saudis stand accused of war crimes in connection   with bombing schools, hospitals, markets, and even a packed   funeral hall. ’ ’   Internal communications show the US has been very concerned about   entering into the conflict for fear that it may be considered   ” ” and thereby liable for prosecution for war   crimes, . ’ ’   Lawrence Brennan, an adjunct professor at Fordham Law School and   a US Navy veteran, told Business Insider the ”limited context in   which these strikes occurred was to protect freedom of navigation   and neutral ships” and likely doesn’’t ”rise to the legal state of   belligerence.” ’ ’   Yet Russian and Shia sources are quick to lump the US and Saudi   Arabia together, Smyth added. Just as the US and international   community look to hold Russia and Syria accountable for the   bombing of a humanitarian aid convoy in Syria, the indiscriminate   Saudi air campaign in Yemen makes it ”very easy to offer a   response” to the cries of war crimes against them, he said. ’ ’  ’ ’   Indeed, now Russian propagandists can offer up a narrative that   suggests a dangerous quid pro quo narrative, suggesting that the   US and Russia are trading war crimes in the region, and to ”throw   out chaff” and muddy the waters should the international   community looks to prosecute Russia and Syria, Smyth added. ’ ’   So, while the US has now entered the murky waters of the conflict   in Yemen  —   where 14 million people lack food and thousands of   civilians have been murdered  —   Schanzer says the US may not have   done enough. ’ ’   The Navy ”didn’t hit the people who struck them,” Schanzer said.   ”They’’re not looking for caches of missiles, not looking for   youth hideouts, not looking to engage directly.” ’ ’   For Schanzer, this half measure ”seems like it’s not even mowing   the lawn.” ’ ’  ’ ’   But with the US already involved in bombing campaigns in six   countries, it is ”loathe” to get mired in another Middle Eastern   conflict and equally concerned about fighting against Iran’’s   proxies, whom it sees as extensions of Iran’’s own IRGC. ’ ’   For now, the Pentagon remains committed to the idea that the   strike on Houthi infrastructure was a ”limited” strike, and that   it’’s strictly acting in   which Schanzer   said is ”not really the way to achieve victory.” ’ ”   But with just three months left in President Obama’s second term,   there is good reason to question if the US’s objective is to help   the people of Yemen and end the war, or to simply sit out the   festering conflict as it balances delicate regional alliances. ”