’    ’ ’   John Kasich is furious at Wells Fargo, and now his state is   cutting off its business with the bank for at least one year. ’ ”   In an interview with Business Insider on Thursday, the Ohio   governor and   2016 Republican presidential contender said   Wells Fargo executives should be held accountable for the bank’s   recent   scandal. ” ”   And on Friday, Kasich announced Ohio was suspending its business   with the bank for one year. This will include using Wells Fargo   to issue debt or bid for   contracts. The   decision applies to state agencies under Kasich’s authority. ” ’   That follows similar suspensions by  and Illinois. ’ ’   ”It’’s clear that Wells Fargo’’s culture was compromised by greed   and by a desire to make money that was stronger than a commitment   to following proper ethical standards,” Kasich said in a   statement announcing the move on Friday. ’ ’’ ’   During his interview with Business Insider, Kasich called the   scandal ”a disgrace.” ’ ’   ”And everybody who was involved in that culture should be held   accountable,” he said. ’ ’   He added that the bank’’s board of directors also held ”a certain   accountability” for not paying attention to ”the quality of the   people” running the bank. ’ ”   Wells Fargo announced on September 8 that the bank was settling   with regulators for $185 million after   employees    under   customers’ names without their knowledge from 2011 to 2015. ” ’   Kasich said executives should not ”walk out of that place with   millions, tens of millions, tens and tens of millions of dollars”   while 5, 300   employees were fired for opening or   overseeing the opening of fake accounts. ’ ’   ”It’’s just an outrage,” he said. ”It’’s people who have forgotten   decent values towards other people.” ’ ’   John Stumpf  on Wednesday and was replaced by former COO   Tim Sloan, a    of Wells Fargo. Stumpf also had $41   million in   compensation clawed back by the bank   before his retirement. ’ ’   Kasich said there might be some ”reasonable approaches” that   could be effective in curtailing the type of behavior that took   place at Wells, but it ultimately came down to the companies to   police themselves. ’ ’   ”In terms of what law you could pass, I don’’t know,” Kasich told   Business Insider. ”I mean if there was something specific that   made sense, then I’’d be OK with that. I would favor that. But   just passing something without having a great impact, look, laws   only go so far, it’’s an individual morality that at the end of   the day in values that matters in these companies.” ’ ’   Despite the scandal,  earnings on   Friday and said the loss of state business was not a serious   detriment to its bottom line. ’