’  ’ ’   Donald Trump claimed he was ”a victim of one of the great   political smear campaigns in the history of our country” at a   campaign rally Friday in Charlotte, North Carolina. ’ ’   “You’re going to view your vote on November 8 to be the single   most important vote that you’ve ever cast because we are going to   take back the White House,” Trump said. ’ ’   The Republican presidential candidate has been on the offensive   since battling accusations of sexual misconduct by several women   following the release of a  that showed Trump making lewd comments about women. ’ ’   In an apparent effort to parry the allegations, the Manhattan   mogul is now claiming ” is conspiring with mainstream   media to destroy his candidacy. ’ ”   Trump on Friday attacked Carlos Slim, the world’s     man, who is also a New York Times stakeholder, for   allegedly conspiring against his campaign. Slim dismissed the   accusation. ” ’’ ’   Taking an almost apocalyptic tone at a rally Thursday, he   suggested that the media and the banks in particular were working   to elect the ”Clinton machine” so they could stay in power and   that they were behind the personal attacks lobbed against him in   the past week. ’ ’   The   League described Trump’’s specific attacks on   the media and the banks as ”fascist code for ’’Jews,’’” . ’ ’   ”For those who control the levers of power in Washington, and for   the global special interests, they partner with these people that   don’’t have your good in mind,” Trump said. ”Our campaign   represents a true existential threat like they haven’’t seen   before. This is not simply another   election. This is a   crossroads in the history of our civilization that will determine   whether or not we the people reclaim control over our   government.” ’ ”   Trump’s speeches have grown increasingly dark weeks ahead of the   Nov. 8 election. ” ’   ”We are now less than a month from the most election of our   lifetime. Indeed one of the most important elections in the   history of our country,” he said at a rally Thursday. ’ ’ Rebecca Harrington contributed reporting. ’