’  ’ ’   Palantir, known in Silicon Valley as the secretive big data   startup founded by tech billionaire Peter Thiel, has filed a   response to the Department of Labor after the agency sued the   company,  against Asian job   applicants. ’ ’   The lawsuit stated, for example, that the company received more   than 730 ”qualified applicants” for its QA Engineer position, 77%   of whom were Asian, and hired six   and one Asian. It   cited similar concerns about two other job titles, too, software   engineer and QA engineer intern. ’ ’   Now, Palantir has done what it does best: sifted through all of   its HR and applicant info and produced a   response   that it believes refutes the allegations,  ’ ’   Palantir says that the suit ignores 41 other job titles for which   the company hired people during the   analysis period   conducted by the Labor Department. It said for those other job   titles, 36% of people that it hired in that time frame were   Asian. It says that 37% of its product engineering team and 25%   of its total workforce is Asian. ’ ”   That doesn’t mean that Palantir didn’t use discriminatory hiring   practices, as the Labor Departments contends, but it is unusual   for a Valley tech company to find itself in such a lawsuit. ” ’’ ’   In terms of diversity in most tech companies, Asians tend to be   overrepresented compared to the general US Asian population,   which comes in at about 6%  It is       and women who stick out as the most   underrepresented folks. ’ ”   As   points out, this suit wasn’t a result of a complaint   by an employee, but arose from the fact that, as a government   contractor, Palantir must report its diversity statistics to the   government. ” ’   Interestingly, Palantir has some experience with unusual   government lawsuits. ’ ’   The company is currently suing the US Army for the way it wrote   the request for proposals to build the Army’s     intelligence system. It alleges the Army drafts its RFPs to favor   its traditional IT contractors. Lots of companies file complaints   after a contract is awarded. This suit is unusual because it is   challenging the bidding process itself, before this next phase of   the contract is awarded, reports  ’ ’   Palantir has not responded to a request for comment. ’