’  ’ ”   Tinder culture has changed how we date, and now it’s changing how   we shop. ” ’   The dating app encourages browsing over emotional investment by   presenting users with an endless array of potential partners to   consider while requiring very little   work or commitment   to establish a ”match.” ’ ’   Just a swipe right (a sign of interest) or a swipe left (a   rejection) will do. ’ ’   Even when you swipe right, another new face immediately appears   on your screen  —   providing a sense that there is always potential   for an equal or better dating option within the next couple   swipes. ’ ”   Likewise, the highly promotional environment in retail today has   given shoppers a sense that there’s always going to be another,   possibly better deal down the road. This has led to a sharp   decline in brand loyalty, which is a nightmare for retailers. ” ’   It has also diminished the significance of . Why save   purchases for Black Friday when retailers are offering ”” and other steep discounts  ? ’ ’   Ian McCaig, cofounder and chief marketing officer of the   consulting firm Qubit, calls this concept the ”Tinderization of   retail.” It’’s something he spends a lot of time discussing with   clients. ’ ’  ’ ’   Like potential suitors on Tinder, ”in this world, retailers   really are a click away from a competitor,” said McCaig, who was   formerly the director of marketing for Google UK. ’ ”   Customers’ attention spans are diminishing, and if retailers   don’t hook them right away, they will lose them, he says  —     possibly forever. ” ’   ”Most customers now have the attention span of about eight   seconds. Making sure you deliver them the right content in those   first couple seconds is critical,” he said. ”Otherwise, chances   are they are going to get bored, distracted, and leave. That’’s   where that ’’    mentality’’ really comes into   play.” ’ ’   It doesn’’t help that the US is ”  and   ” which overwhelms shoppers and can discourage   them from making a purchase, says Shelley Kohan, vice president   of retail consulting at RetailNext. ’ ’   ”The ’’buy now’’ event mentality of the consumer has been changing   over the past two years, and they are less driven by the   constraints of event timelines and more inclined to purchase at   either time of need or when they find differentiated products or   experiences being offered,” she said. ’ ’   Retaining new customers  —   or getting them to return to your store   or website  —   is a whole other challenge. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Loyalty is a huge issue” in the age of Tinder, McCaig said. ’ ”   Today’s promotional environment has made shoppers highly   promiscuous. ” ’   To retain shoppers, McCaig advises his clients to feed them   specialized content based on prior purchasing behavior as soon as   they land on their website. ’ ’   For example, the website    welcomes returning users by   name and gives them access to an ”Extremely Important Person”   program that delivers them specialized offers and content. That   way, returning users get rewarded for coming back, he said. ’ ’   The stakes are high for companies that don’’t adapt to the new   ”Tinderization of retail,” according to McCaig. ’ ’   ”The runway for retailers to get this right is shrinking and the   next one to two years, there’’s going to be a big gap between the   retailers that get this right and the ones that get it wrong,” he   said. ”By 2018, you could see a lot of the retailers that get it   wrong go out of business. Shoppers will either vote with their   feet or click away. It’’s a scary place as a retailer.” ’