’  ’ ’   On Thursday, Discovery Communications poured $100 million into a   new holding company called Group Nine Media, which ties together   four media brands:  ’ ’   The impetus for Group Nine, according to Thrillist CEO Ben Lerer,   who will run it, is a macro trend in digital media toward   consolidation. ’ ’   “Consolidation is coming to media,” he tells Business Insider,   referencing big investments by NBC in Vox and BuzzFeed, as well   as the pickup of Gawker’s assets by Univision, and the sale of   Business Insider to Axel Springer. ’ ’   This is just the start, according to Lerer. ’ ’   Here’s Lerer’s theory: There are a few digital media brands that   are set up to take advantage of a world dominated by distributed   video, meaning video that lives everywhere you are. They know how   to make video for YouTube or Facebook or Snapchat or whatever is   next. ’ ’’ ”   But these companies can’t get onto TV, which is a critical   market, unless they have help from a big partner who knows the   ropes (like Discovery). ” ’   “Linear TV isn’t dead yet,” Lerer says. And TV is a lucrative   business, especially while a huge chunk of the ad dollars are   still there. That’s why you see companies like Vice, Vox, Ozy,   and others pushing onto traditional TV. ’ ’   Lerer thinks Group Nine needs to get there. ’ ’   “All of [The Group Nine] brands should be creating longform   [video] content,” Lerer says. And Discovery agrees. ’ ’   One big goal of the new holding company is to figure out how to   bridge the gap between the video these companies are creating for   the internet and traditional TV. ’ ”   Lerer doesn’t claim to have the answer yet, but he says since the   announcement of Group Nine, he’s gotten six notes from TV execs   asking about creating something together. He’s being taken more   seriously as a partner for TV. That’s what $100 million from   Discovery will do for you. ” ’   The ideal outcome for all the Group Nine companies is creating a     product that spans both the world of social media and   the world of TV. That’s what Discovery is betting $100 million   on. (The company is a minority investor, but has the option to   buy a controlling stake.) ’ ’   A big part of the creation of Group Nine comes down to Lerer’s   family. Ben’s father Ken, who cofounded NowThis, has been   instrumental in many New York digital media companies   including The Huffington Post, BuzzFeed, and even Business   Insider, where he was an investor and board member until the sale   to Axel Springer. His sister Izzie founded The Dodo. ’ ’   The family element “made [the deal] possible,” Ben Lerer says.   “There was 1, 000% transparency   …     No posturing or staredowns. ”   There was trust, and a frank discussion of whether the move would   be best for Thrillist, NowThis, and The Dodo. ’ ’   Lerer sounds relieved at the prospect of freeing himself, at   least partially, from raising money. ’ ’   “You get to pick your head up from the grind of constant   fundraising,” he says. “Of worrying where the next [metaphorical]   meal is coming from. ” He calls that process “exhausting,”   “frustrating,” and “stressful. ” Lerer last raised in late 2015,   when he  and split Thrillist and its     wing, JackThreads, into separate companies. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’