’  ’ ’   Another woman has come forward and accused Donald Trump of sexual   misconduct by alleging that the Republican nominee kissed her   without her consent about 20 years ago. ’ ”   On Saturday,  a      New York woman who alleged the incident took   place at Trump’s    estate on Mother’s Day, when she   was eating brunch with her family. She believes the year was   1997. ” ’   Heller said Trump stopped at her table after greeting other   diners. ’ ’   ”He took my hand, and grabbed me, and went for the lips,” Heller   told The Guardian. ’ ’   She said she nearly lost her balance as she leaned away from him.   Heller alleged Trump said, ”Oh, come on,” and kissed the   side of her mouth as she turned her head. ’ ’’ ’   ”He was pissed. He couldn’’t believe a woman would pass up the   opportunity,” said Heller, adding that she believed Trump   felt ”entitled” to kiss her. ’ ’   Heller is the latest of several women to come forward   publicly in recent days with similar accusations of sexual   misconduct against Trump. Their accounts followed the   release of a  in which Trump was recorded bragging about groping   women and kissing them. ’ ’   During his debate with Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton   two days after the recording was published, Trump called the   recorded conversation ”locker room talk” and denied that he had   acted on his words. ’ ’   ”It’’s not ’’just talk. ’’   …     It’’s action,” Heller told The Guardian.   ”He can’’t claim we’’re all liars.” ’ ’   The Trump campaign issued a firm denial of Heller’’s accusations   Saturday afternoon and said the media had ”gone too far” in   ”making this false accusation” from a ”politically motivated   Democratic activist with a legal dispute against this same resort   owned by Mr. Trump.” ’ ”   Heller said she has donated $2, 700 to Hillary Clinton’s campaign   and met her once at a fundraiser. The family of Heller’s husband   has also been attempting for years to recover initiation fees to   join    The Guardian reported. ” ’   ”There is no way that something like this would have happened in   a public place on Mother’’s Day at Mr. Trump’’s resort. It would   have been the talk of Palm Beach for the past two decades,” Trump   campaign spokesman Jason Miller said in a statement. ’ ’   He added: ”Anyone covering this story should be embarrassed for   elevating this bogus claim.” ’