’  ’ ”   WASHINGTON, D. C.  —   Despite North Korea’s  experts   argue that several of the Hermit Kingdom’s missile programs are   closer than ever for deployment.  ” ’   ”This year, Pyongyang successfully conducted two nuclear tests,   an intercontinental ballistic missile test, breakthrough   successes with its     missile and     ballistic missile, a new   rocket   engine, and an improved   ICBM engine,” Bruce   Klingner, senior research fellow of Northeast Asia at the   Heritage Foundation, told Business Insider. ’ ’   ”Based on these successes, as well as North     information, experts reassessed several missile programs as being   more capable and closer to deployment,” Klingner added. ’ ’  ’ ’   On Friday at approximately etected a unsuccessful North Korean   missile test near the northwestern city of Kusŏng. ’ ’   The launch of the presumed Musadan   ballistic   missile failed immediately, according to a statement from the   South Korean military. ’ ’   ”Regardless of the discrete results of this particular test, it   signals their [North Korea] continued resolve to get this right,   meaning intermediate and longer range missiles,” Thomas   Karako, director of the Missile Defense Project at the Center for   Strategic and International Studies, told Business Insider. ’ ’   ”They will get it right sooner or later, so we’’d better be   ready,” Karako added. ’ ’   The Musadan is speculated to have a range of   approximately 1, 500 to 2, 400 miles, capable   of targeting military installations in South   Korea, Japan, and Guam, according to .  ’ ’   So far this year, Pyongyang has conducted seven Musudan missile   tests. All launches  on June 22 were   considered to be failures. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”The main   here is not that they are still having   problems, the main   is that they are absolutely   committed to achieving a credible nuclear missile   force,” Rebeccah Heinrichs, a fellow at the Hudson Institute   specializing in nuclear deterrence and missile defense, told   Business Insider. ’ ’   ”Not only are they improving the reliability of missiles with a   variety of ranges, including   missiles, they are also   working on ways to ensure their missiles are harder to detect,”   Heinrichs added. ’ ’   In August of this year, North Korea  with a range capable of striking parts of   Japan and South Korea. ’ ’   Pyongyang first attempted a   missile launch   last year and  2016. ’ ’   ”A submarine launch poses an especially grave threat since it   could catch the United States and allies by surprise,” Heinrichs   told Business Insider. ’ ’  ’ ”   What’s more, Klingner notes that in four years under Kim Jong Un,   North Korea has conducted more than twice as many missile tests   as his father Kim Jong Il did in 17 years in power. ” ’   ”We know the path that North Korea is on and it is only a matter   of time until they can hold the US at risk, as they already hold   our allies South Korea and Japan at nuclear risk,” Klingner   told Business Insider. ’ ’  ’ ”   In order to counter North Korean threats, the US  South Korea with   a  battery, America’s most advanced and highly   mobile missile defense system. ” ”   And while negotiations to deploy THAAD to the region have   been ongoing since South Korean President Park  ’s    visit to the White House, North   Korea’s fourth  test on January 6   and  launch on February   7 proved to be catalysts for the deployment. ” ’   ”North Korea can rest assured that it has the undivided attention   of its neighbors, who aren’’t going to take it anymore,”    Karako told Business Insider. ’ ’’ ’   ”There’’s no silver bullets, no one system could handle everything   most notably, ballistic missile defenses aren’’t designed against   cruise missile threats, however this is an important part of a   particular threat set posed by North Korea.” ’ ”   South Korea’s military will have the unique     system operational by the end of 2017; however,   there have been discussions to expedite THAAD’s deployment. ”