’  ’ ’   A  are calling for a   Department of Justice investigation into  after a damning report released   Tuesday found that roughly half of American adults appear in the   unregulated databases. ’ ’   On Tuesday, the American Civil Liberties Union, along with 51   other advocacy groups, wrote a letter decrying the technology  —     which is being used by a growing number of law enforcement   agencies across the country  —   for its lack of oversight and   potential to disproportionately affect communities of color. ’ ”   So far, no state has passed a comprehensive law regulating police   departments’ use of the technology, according to the  at Georgetown University’s law school. ” ”   The report also noted that police departments’ use of the   technology poses privacy and free speech concerns  —   especially   when photos are taken surreptitiously or via public surveillance   at protests or demonstrations. ” ’   ”Face recognition technology has enormous civil liberties   implications and its use must be closely examined to ensure that   it is not violating Americans’’ civil rights,” the ACLU’’s letter   said. ”The safeguards to ensure this technology is being   used fairly and responsibly appear to be virtually nonexistent.” ’ ’’ ’   Although some police departments tout their technology as being   free of racial bias, African Americans are particularly   vulnerable to racial profiling as a result of the technology. ’ ’   Previous studies have found that facial recognition algorithms   tend to be less accurate on African Americans than Caucasians,   and the report noted that African Americans are typically   overrepresented in mugshot databases anyway. ’ ’   ”If the suspect is African American rather than Caucasian, the   system is more likely to erroneously fail to identify the right   person, potentially causing innocent people to be bumped up the   list  —   and possibly even investigated,” the report said. ’ ”   The lack of both internal and external input on police   departments’ use of the technology also stood out; of the 52   local and state law enforcement agencies evaluated, just one of   them had been reviewed and approved by elected officials, and   just four had created use policies that are available to the   public. ” ’   ”With little to guide them, most  —   though not all  —   police   departments have not taken adequate steps to rein in this   surveillance technology,” the report argued. ’ ’   ”Face recognition can and should be used to respond to serious   crimes and public emergencies. It should not be used to scan the   face of any person, at any time, for any crime.” ’