’  ’ ’   Those hoping to buy a smartphone case with a   selfie   stick could finally do so online at the end of last year  —   though   not from the original designer. ’ ’   As Israeli entrepreneur Yekutiel Sherman  in an article published Monday, counterfeiters   quickly stole his design idea and put a similar product on sale   months before the intended release date. ’ ’   Sherman discovered that vendors across China were beginning to   sell the same smartphone case, called StikBox, that his  first featured in December before he   could even find a factory to manufacture it. ’ ”   Sherman, along with other targets of China’s copycats, face a   reality that some Chinese manufacturers are always preparing to   scoop original designs or inventions and undercut the makers of   genuine products. Xinhua reported in November 2015 that  the previous year were   counterfeits or of bad quality. ” ”   For example, the counterfeit smartphone cases  —   available across   eBay, Amazon, Taobao, AliExPress, and numerous online retail   sites  —   can sell for as low as $8 for an iPhone 6 case,   undercutting the original price of Sherman’s authentic   product, the StikBox. ” ’  ’ ’   Sherman told Quartz writer Josh Horvitz he had lost a ton of   money to sales of imitation products. ’ ’   Some counterfeiting operations begin with manufacturers that have   deals to produce the products of large global hardware companies.   After supplying parts for a particular product, some of those   manufacturers realized they could ”create rival products on   their own, and reach customers who were too poor to buy a Nokia   phone or Apple iPod,” according to Silvia Lindtner, an assistant   professor at the University of Michigan with a focus on   manufacturing in China whom Quartz cited. ’ ”   Today’s counterfeiters, however, also target     innovators like Sherman. They can easily spot the next new   gadgets on Kickstarter, Amazon, or Taobao and swiftly produce   copies and sell them online, Quartz said. ” ’   And now, some of the more than 900 Kickstarter backers who   combined to donate more than $38, 000 to make the StikBox   smartphone case a reality have found themselves buying fake ones   from Taobao and then  from Sherman. ’