”The Lincoln Continental is just one of those cars. It really isn’t even a car  —   it’s an ideal, a dream, an evocation.” ’Ford introduced the Continental in the late 1930s, and over the decades it was conjoined with American history, most tragically in 1963, when President John F. Kennedy was assassinated in Dallas while riding in a 1961 Continental limousine.’ ’Ford discontinued the Continental as its flagship Lincoln luxury sedan in 2002, but the nameplate never really went away. You could say that it haunted Ford.’ ’And then, in 2015, a new Continental concept car took the New York auto show by storm. Ford had considered killing off Lincoln after the financial crisis but decided against it and put billions into a revival of the brand. By 2016 we saw the production version of the big new sedan as it hit the   circuit.’ ’More recently, as autumn settled in the Northeast, we finally found ourselves behind the wheel of a 2017 Lincoln Continental Reserve with   drive, stickered at $56, 000 but then benefitting from about $20, 000 worth of options, taking the final price up to $76, 000.’ ’Does the new Continental live up to expectations  —   not to mention the lofty reputation of its name? Read on to find out:’ ’’ ”I’m in love with the new Continental. But then again, I’ve liked every Lincoln I’ve sampled in the past two years.” ’That said, the Continental is something special.’ ’Does it redefine the luxury sedan  which also has a turbo   delivering about 400 horsepower and which also costs about $80, 000? Not really.’ ’Does it drive like a BMW   a car we sampled last year in $130, 000   trim? Of course not.’ ”But the Continental is zigging when those other cars are zagging. Performance isn’t job No. 1 here: A mellow unfurling of luxury is. Lincoln has borrowed a page from the Lexus playbook and refined it, adding a healthy does of American cool.” ”Not that the Continental doesn’t go when you put the pedal down  —   it does. In fact, the     on our tester did such a good impersonation of a   that I had to watch it in the big Lincoln’s preferred driving environment, the Great American Freeway, in which it was born to cruise in style. (One small complaint: On acceleration, before you get up to highway velocity, the engine can sound a bit buzzy, but at speed it’s blissfully unobtrusive. )” ”On several occasions, Lincoln executives have told me that quiet luxury isn’t about technical specs or    times. (The Continental is no slouch in that department, by the way, making the run in around six seconds.) It’s about making the owner and his or her passengers feel relaxed, at ease, freed from the stress of modern life.” ”On that front, the Lincoln is quintessential. I did test all the advanced   features and   technologies, and as with previous Lincolns I’ve sampled, they worked well. But I didn’t want to put the car in cruise control! I wanted to drive it and drive it and drive it some more, down a long American highway, with a little Oscar Peterson or Stan Getz on the stereo.” ”I decompressed with every minute I spent behind the wheel of the new Continental, and over the hours I was consumed by a   state of emotional and intellectual clarity. Did I want to sling this big sedan around corners? Nope. But it isn’t made for that. The   and, to a degree, the CT6 are.” ”But the Lincoln Continental doesn’t go there. It doesn’t need to. It never went there even before it went away for a little while. This car is for the smooth rollers in life. And if you aren’t a smooth roller, the Continental might make you want to be one.”