’  ’ ”   Apple sent out invitations Wednesday for an event on October 27   at its campus in Cupertino, California, where it’s expected to   announce a new Mac. ” ’   The invitation reads ”hello again,” a play off the greeting the   original Macintosh gave when Steve Jobs introduced it in 1984. ’ ”   There have been numerous reports about what to expect from Apple   this month, so here’s the rundown: ” ’   A new MacBook Pro will likely be the star of the show. ’ ”   According to the latest rumors, the MacBook Pro will be   completely redesigned to look more like the Retina MacBook that   launched last year. The key feature will be a touch screen at the   top of the keyboard that replaces the function keys and can   change depending on the app you’re using. It’ll also have a   fingerprint sensor for unlocking the device, just like you do   with the iPhone, . ” ”   Finally, the MacBook Pro might ditch standard USB ports in favor   of   the new, more capable USB port that’s becoming the   standard across the tech industry. ” ’  ’ ’   The MacBook Air may also get a slight refresh with   ports   and faster internal components. Many expected Apple to kill the   MacBook Air line in favor of the Retina MacBook, but it looks as   though the Air is here to stay for at least a few more years. ’ ”   iMacs are expected to get a spec bump, but it’s unclear if there   will be a redesign. Apple introduced the Retina iMac with a 5K   screen two years ago, and improved the color representation on   the screen in an update last year. ” ’  ’ ”   Apple said the AirPods, its new wireless Bluetooth earbuds, would   go on sale in October. Well, we’re running out of October, so   expect Apple to announce that the AirPods are officially on sale   on the day of the event. ” ”   Last month, Apple promised an iOS update that would unlock the   Portrait mode for the iPhone 7 Plus’   system. iOS 10. 1   is already available in beta for some early testers, so expect   the final version to be announced at the event on October 27. ” ”   Portrait mode mimics the blurry bokeh effect from DSLR cameras,   which means the figure in front remains in focus while the   background is blurred. The iPhone 7 Plus is the only device   that’ll get Portrait mode. ” ’  ’ ”   It has been several years since Apple’s Macs have gotten   significant updates or redesigns, so this product refresh feels   long overdue. Apple’s announcement will come one day after    in New York. ” ”   Business Insider will have all the news from Apple’s event on   October 27, so be sure to come back for all the live updates,   analysis, photos, videos, and more. ”