’  ’ ’   When I first met Donald Trump, he did not grab. ’ ’   He limply shook my hand. ’ ’   But I was just a guy, and a member of what The Donald now   considers the lowliest caste of the lowest class of people —  a   journalist at a business trade magazine. ’ ’   He offered me plastic cuff links. ’ ’   In May 2003, I was on staff at Advertising Age working on a story   about the maiden launch of The Apprentice. ’ ’   At the time Trumpland was enduring marital scandals and massive   financial losses associated with casino bankruptcies. He was   reduced to rubble and a recurring   guest role on the   Howard Stern show. ’ ’   The Donald needed to be great again. ’ ’   It was surprisingly easy to get an interview with Trump. I simply   called his office and said I wanted to write about him. At that   time it was widely reported that he was a germaphobe who refused   to shake hands. But when I entered his office on the 26th floor   of the Trump Tower he offered his hand right away. ’ ’   For the record, I don’t recall if it was small or large. I just   remember that I was surprised and flattered to shake it. He   invited me to sit down at the other end of a huge desk covered   with newspaper and magazine clippings, including copies of his   magazine Trump World. ’ ’   All of the articles were about him. ’ ’  ’ ’   Over the course of a couple months, there were several interview   sessions on the 26th Floor. Advertising Age’s offices were just a   few blocks away. It was easy for me to be at the Donald’s beck   and call. ’ ’   After our first meeting, he called me directly, made me feel like   an old friend. He asked me about my family. I told him I was   married with a young son. And then we talked about him, the   people he knew, the projects he was working on, beauty pageants,   how much money he was worth —  $5 billion, he claimed —  and his golf   courses, which he invited me to play on. ’ ’   One day at his office he showed me plans for a new construction   project on Park Avenue. He was converting the former Hotel   Delmonico into a   luxury condo complex. He invited me to   visit it with him someday. ’ ’   On another occasion,  I joined Trump and his son Donald Jr.   on a tour of the set of The Apprentice, in construction on the   third floor of Trump Tower. When we got to the contestants’   living quarters, Trump engaged in some   repartee,   asking the set designer if cameras would be installed in their   showers. ’ ’   Meanwhile, my editor decided to push back the Trump story. It was   a soft feature. So was Donald. ’ ’   He was, in my editor’s opinion, a bit of a  . I had worked   with the research firm Millward Brown on past reporting and   suggested we ask them to conduct a   type study into the   likeability of the Donald, and by extension the potential success   and profitability of the show. ’ ’  ’ ’   The Millward Brown study was not particularly flattering. In   comparing him to other celebrity brands —  Oprah Winfrey, Martha   Stewart, Puff Daddy, and Ted Turner —  the study found that Trump   appealed to a “younger, male, aspirational audience. ” ’ ’   Right. But even then, Trump was showing signs of being unpopular   with women. ’ ’   “If you look at older females,” a Millward Brown vice president   told me after crunching the numbers, “he does tend to alienate   them. He is not necessarily actively irritating like some of the   other names we surveyed, but he has a weakened appeal. ” ’ ’   Worse, only two percent of the survey’s respondents said they   would buy a product from Trump. ’ ’   It was around this time that I got phone calls from a mysterious,   adenoidal sounding character who said his name was Joe Cinque, a   very close friend of Donald, or so he said. Cinque was then, as   he is now, a controversial figure in Trumpland. A 1995 New York   profile described him as “a small time mobster, a scam artist,   and an art fence” who was known to the authorities as Joey No   Socks. ’ ’   The magazine reported that Cinque had survived an attempt on his   life, was a former pal of mobster John Gotti. Cinque identified   himself to me as the founder of the American Academy of   Hospitality Sciences, which created the world famous Star Diamond   rating system for restaurants and hotels. The Donald had asked   him to invite me to the    Trump’s resort in Florida. ’ ’   It was a magnificent palace, according to Cinque, the only Six   Star Diamond private club in the world. He suggested I hop on the   Donald’s jet with him. Clearly, this was not a business trip.   Advertising Age policy prohibited reporters and editors from   accepting gifts from anyone. ’ ’   I thanked Cinque but declined. ’ ’  ’ ’   A few days later Trump called and invited me to tour his Trump   Park Avenue project, the former Delmonico Hotel on Park Avenue   and 59th Street. The afternoon was unusually cold and overcast,   with drizzle and occasional downpours. ’ ’   When my cab pulled up, the Donald stepped out, shook my hand, and   led me inside. We rode the elevator together to a top floor that   was under construction and wide open, exposed to the elements. A   construction worker lurked in the shadows, barely acknowledging   us. ’ ’   We strolled the floor cautiously. It was damp, and coffee cups   and trash skittered across the concrete, whipped up by the wind. ’ ’   I wasn’t getting the tour I expected. The Donald didn’t have much   to say. He couldn’t explain what we were looking at. He wasn’t   sure if we were on a penthouse floor or some other floor. He   seemed preoccupied and tentative. ’ ’   While Trump hung back, randomly pondering a maze of pipes, I   walked to the edge and looked down some 30 stories into the   blurry maze of streetlamps on Park Avenue. ’ ’  ’ ’   Trump watched me, inched closer, took a wary glance over the   side, and seemed flushed. ’ ’   I asked him, “Do you ever get vertigo?” He replied, in a whisper,   “Yes I do. ” ’ ’   It was a good get for me, the lowly trade reporter. I caught the   man who built towers admitting he was afraid of heights. I had my   lede. ’ ’   My visit to the top of the tower made me aware of a couple of key   things about Trump. ’ ’   First, he clearly loved himself. ’ ’   Second, he loved press and went out of his way to cater to us,   which is ironic considering his scorn for the media today. ’ ’   His attempts to influence my reporting were obvious and   unsophisticated, almost childlike. He was like a kid showing me   his toys, and he was confident I would be impressed. ’ ’   Trump’s toys indeed were impressive. But he really wasn’t   connected to them. He didn’t have a   relationship to   anything. He built skyscrapers but got dizzy standing in   them. ’ ’   A few days after our vertigo meeting I called the Donald to tell   him my  was finished and would break the following week. ’ ’   He requested an advance copy, and I told him that was against our   policy. So he invited me to his office. I dropped   everything. When I sat down in front of his desk, he   congratulated me on finally publishing the article. He wanted to   celebrate. ’ ’   “I have something for you,” he said. “A little gift. ” ’ ’   “You know I can’t accept gifts. ”   ’ ’   “It’s okay, here. ” He reached across the desk with a plush   jewelry case in his hand. I pushed it back. ’ ’   “No, Donald, I’m not allowed to take gifts. ” ’ ’   “Don’t worry about it. You can take this. Open it up. Take a   look. ” ’ ’  ’ ’   I grabbed the case and found inside two shiny gold cuff links   embossed with the letter “T. ” ’ ’   “I really can’t take this. ” ’ ’   “Oh yes you can. Look at them. Turn them over. Take a look. ” ’ ’   I plucked one of the cuff links out of the case and turned it   over. There was a sticker that read “Made in China. ” ’ ’   “You see,” he said. “They’re plastic. Cost about $15. You can   take them. ” ’ ’   And I did. ’ ’   My story appeared a week later. I got a call from someone at   Trump headquarters, I don’t recall who it was. They said The   Donald was not happy with my article. ’ ’   I never got another call from him. But we would meet again. ’ ’   Months later, NBC threw a party at the 21 Club to celebrate the   new Fall TV Season. I was circulating through the packed rooms   when I bumped into Trump. He shook my hand and introduced me to   his   Melania. I shook her hand, too. ’ ’   His attention quickly shifted elsewhere, and he walked away.   Fifteen minutes later I ran into Trump again. He pulled me aside   and said he wanted to introduce me to someone.   ’ ’   “You’ll really like her,” he said. “She’s a great girl. Very   attractive. Very smart. And she’s single. ” ’ ’   It was Melania’s sister Ines, who had just arrived in the United   States. He wanted to hook me up with her, thought we’d get along   just great. ’ ’   “She’s a good girl. ” ’ ’   “Donald, I appreciate you want to introduce to me to her, but   that could be a problem. ” ’ ’   “Why?” ’ ’   “I’m married. Remember?” ’ ’   He stared at me, taken aback. ’ ’   “But you’re not wearing a ring. ” ’ ’   True. I had broken my finger in a sport accident and couldn’t   wear the ring for a while. When I explained that, the Donald   sniffed at me before quickly retreating into the crowd at the 21   Club as if I had germs. ’ ’   I never met Melania’s sister. I was flattered by Trump’s offer.   He had nothing to gain from it. My story had already been   published. Perhaps he felt I was worthy. ’ ’   Then again, the thought crossed my mind that she might have   needed a green card. For all I know he was just looking, as   always, to make a deal. ’ ’  a former   marketing reporter at Adweek and   Advertising Age, is a freelance writer and public relations   consultant. He is the author of ”” (Rutgers University Press   2013) about the ganglord who influenced David Chase to create   the Sopranos, and the   of ”” (Naval Institute Press 2001) about the only   mutiny on an American ship since the Amistad. ’