’  ’ ”   Donald Trump’s strongest moment suddenly turned into one of his   weakest.  ” ’   Hillary Clinton was on the defensive. The candidates were talking   about immigration. One of  a   transcript of which was released as part of hacked Clinton   campaign emails from WikiLeaks, was under the spotlight. ’ ’   Then she changed the subject. ’ ’   She veered off the discussion of ”open borders,” which she had   praised in her speech, and instead started talking about Russian   President Vladimir Putin. She accused Putin and the Russian   government of meddling in the US election, and called on   Trump to disavow ”Russian espionage against Americans.” ’ ’   Trump responded with a zinger, marveling at how Clinton had   shifted gears. And then, for some reason, he took the bait. ’ ’’ ’   ”Now we can talk about Putin,” he started. ’ ”   It was a seminal, if unheralded, moment as part of Clinton’s   master class in debate sparring with an unworthy partner. In   romping through the nominees’ three debates,  and opening up a more   and more sizable poll lead, she was the class president vs. the   class clown, the   interviewee vs. the guy winging it   on the biggest stage of his life. ” ”   Clinton did what 16 Republican candidates couldn’t in the GOP   primary: beat Trump at his own game. ” ’   She trolled him.  ’ ’   On Wednesday, that came when she relentlessly needled him   over his meeting with the Mexican president, which led to a   dispute over whether he had actually .  ’ ’   ”He choked and then got into a Twitter war,” she said. ’ ’   She mocked him. ’ ’   There was the exchange Wednesday during which she   grinned and interjected, as he was talking about sitting in an   apartment in his ”very beautiful hotel” in Las Vegas.  ’ ’   ”Made with Chinese steel,” she quipped. ’ ’   She outplayed and outprepared him. ’ ”   In the first debate, it was invoking  with whom Trump engaged in a   feud. This   time, Trump was so obsessed with defending himself against   allegations of sexual misconduct from several women that he   allowed her to completely avoid a question about former President   Bill Clinton’s own surreptitious history. ” ’   In slicing through his GOP primary opponents, one by one, Trump   often made other candidates the foil on the debate stage. His   most frequent target was Jeb Bush, whom he routinely made a   punchline. ’ ’   On Wednesday night, at the end of three   debates,   he was his own punchline. ’ ’   ”Nobody has more respect for women than I do. Nobody,” he   declared. ’ ’   And the audience laughed. ’