’  ’ ’   Hillary Clinton is making a shocking play for a state once   considered untouchable for Democrats: Texas. ’ ’   Or is she? ’ ”   Clinton’s campaign is launching a  in Texas, aides to the Democratic   candidate announced this week, dropping $100, 000 on television   spots in Dallas, Houston, San Antonio, and online. ” ”   It’s a modest ad buy  —   compare it to the  Clinton is spending in another   traditionally red state, Arizona. And despite Clinton’s recent   gains in Texas, she’s still losing to Republican nominee Donald   Trump by about 6 points, according to a  of recent polls. She remains a long   shot to overtake him in the Lone Star State. ” ’   So why is Clinton even bothering? ’ ’’ ’   ”It’’s a classic political prank,” wrote Ross Ramsey, executive   editor of The Texas Tribune,  on Wednesday. ’ ’   Ramsey explains: ’ ’     ”If you only have enough money to buy one billboard ad, spend     it on the billboard that’’s closest to your opponent’’s home     airport. It won’’t move that many voters, but it will rattle the     opponent, who’ll be seeing your name and face with every     departure and arrival.”   ’ ’     ”Buying a bit of TV time in a state your opponent is supposed     to have in the bag is essentially the same gag.”   ’ ’   With 38 electoral votes at stake, Texas is the     prize in the US, and by far the largest traditionally Republican   state. Republican presidential candidates typically win the state   by double digits. No Democrat has won there since Jimmy Carter in   1976. ’ ’   If Clinton wanted to make a serious bid to convert the majority   of Texans to her side, Ramsey wrote, she would likely need to   spend $1 million a week in the state. ’ ’   But as Trump’’s poll numbers  he finds   himself vulnerable in a number of   states,   including Arizona, Utah, and Georgia. As unlikely as a Clinton   victory in Texas may be, her ad buy opens the door to countless   ”what ifs.” ’ ’   ”They’’re not trying to swing the state’s electorate,” Ramsey   wrote. ”The campaign just wants Texans  —   and Trump  —   to think   about the possibilities.” ’ ’   ”Real advertising would have cost millions,” he wrote, but   Clinton is steering the conversation her way for a fraction of   the price. ’