’  ’ ”   NASA’s tennis   Juno probe is in a bit of a sticky   situation 600 million miles from Earth. ” ’   Just days before Juno swooped by Jupiter on Wednesday morning  —     its second 130, 000 mph flyby   —   the spacecraft experienced two significant   glitches. ’ ’   One of those problems prevented the $1. 1 billion probe from   taking new photos, recording  and logging other crucial data about the gas giant,   mission managers said during an American Astronomical Society   (AAS) press briefing on Wednesday. ’ ”   The other could lengthen the planned mission from February 2018   (when it’s supposed ) by an   additional one or two years. ” ’  ’ ’   ”On the way in [Tuesday] night, the spacecraft went into safe   mode,” Scott Bolton, a planetary scientist at the Southwest   Research Institute in San Antonio and the Juno mission’’s leader,   said during the AAS briefing. ’ ’   ”It detected a condition that was not expected . .. and it did   exactly what it was supposed to do,” Bolton said ’ ’   He noted that a space probe’’s safe mode is an act of     and in this case the software turned off   Juno’’s cameras and other science instruments, pointed itself   toward the sun, and waited ”for direction from the humans back   home.” ’ ’   Fortunately, NASA said in  the probe is healthy and its     operators are working to restore Juno to a full   functionality. ’ ’   What caused the spacecraft to reset itself? ’ ”   Bolton told Business Insider and other reporters who tuned into   the conference that he wasn’t sure. ” ’   ”It’’s too early to take a guess,” Bolton said, later adding: ”My   instinct is that it wasn’’t caused by the intense radiation belts   that we’’re so fearful of,” since the glitch occurred some 13   hours from Juno’’s closest approach to the cloud tops of Jupiter. ’ ’   Like an automobile on a blisteringly cold morning, Juno is having   engine troubles, too. ’ ”   A firing of the probe’s main engine on October 19 was supposed to   dramatically shorten Juno’s   elliptical orbits around   Jupiter to just 2 weeks  —   a move that would have sped of NASA’s   study of Jupiter by nearly  . ” ’ ’ ”   However, during a routine test, the spacecraft’s operators   noticed a problem: Two valves that pressurize the engine before   firing were operating sluggishly, Bolton told reporters on   Wednesday. ” ’   ”Maybe the valves were a little sticky,” he said. ”We decided to   postpone and delay that burn” to find the source of the problem,   Bolton added. ’ ’   According to  the next   chance for Juno to fire its thruster will be Dec. 11  —   right   before its third perijove, or closest pass, of Jupiter. ’ ”   At worst, Bolton said the Juno team won’t ever fire the engine,   and everyone will just have to be more patient. ” ’   ”But the science opportunities are all there,” he said. ’ ’  ’ ”   Aside from regaling reporters on Juno’s troubles, which seem   recoverable, if not a little bit annoying, researchers took a   moment to highlight new research from Juno’s first pass by the   gas giant on August 27. ” ’   The above image is a visualization of data gathered by Juno’’s   microwave radiometer, when is designed to ”peel the layers back   as if Jupiter is an onion,” Bolton said. ’ ’   He emphasized that this   level view of Jupiter, let   alone any gas giant, is unprecedented in the history of space   exploration. ’ ’   ”The structures of the zones and belts still exist deep down into   Jupiter,” Bolton said, but noted they seem to be twisting and   evolving. ”That came as a surprise to many scientists. We didn’’t   know if this was  . . .. Deep down, Jupiter is similar but   also very different than what we see on the surface.” ’ ’   In addition to sharing the new image, Candice Hansen, an imaging   scientist at the Planetary Science Institute in Tucson, Arizona,   showed off a few Juno images that ”citizen scientists” processed   using raw data. ’ ’   This view, which its creator dubbed ”,”   shows a   view of Jupiter’’s South Pole that helps its   roiling cyclones stand out: ’ ’  ’ ’   And this image was   to point out the     storms on Jupiter in a different way: ’ ’  ’ ’   Another user had a little fun, mirroring the visible half of   Jupiter and coloring it yellow to make a smiley face: ’ ’  ’