’  ’ ’   Billionaire Mark Cuban provided a glimpse into his history with   Donald Trump Friday, promoting a blog post he authored  meeting between the   bombastic businessmen. ’ ’   In a post on his personal blog titled ”Thank you, Donald,” the   owner of the NBA’’s Dallas Mavericks and star of ABC’’s ”Shark   Tank” responded to a quote from Trump regarding Cuban’’s   show, ”The Benefactor,” which would last for just one season. ’ ’   Trump had compared the show to his hit series, ”The   Apprentice,” claiming that ”100 people” would be trying ”to do   shows a little bit like us.” Cuban took that to mean Trump was   calling his program a ”copycat.” ’ ’   ”Let’s get some things cleared up in case anyone is confused,”   Cuban wrote. ”The Benefactor is going to be nothing like The   Apprentice. Why? Because, Donald, we are not alike in any way.   The funny thing is, in some respects, I have you to thank for   that.” ’ ”   He detailed a 1999 Super Bowl party he attended at Trump’s      resort in Florida. He said it was the first time he   met the Manhattan billionaire.  ” ’   ”I happened to bump into one of the founders of Yahoo by your   pool and was talking to him when you walked up,” he said. ”It was   just your typical, short    but what you said left a   lasting impression. You told us that ’’someday, maybe we could sit   up there with the rich people’’ as you looked up to a 2nd floor   patio that had a smattering of people eating their [dinner]. ds” ’ ’   ”Someday, Donald,” he continued. ’ ’   Cuban said he got a note from Trump ”not long after” asking to   meet in New York. ’ ’   ”Sure, I thought,” Cuban wrote. ”Why not? We had a good meeting,   talked about your internet plans for Trump. com and how it would   sell and promote all things Trump. We talked about Broadcast. com   (the online radio streaming website that earned Cuban his initial   fortune.) You had a sharp guy there with you. We didn’t do any   business, but we gave it a shot.” ’ ”   He continued, recalling seeing Trump’s office in   his eponymous building: ” ’   He said that after the visit to Trump’’s Manhattan office, he   ”promised” himself that, if he ever had an obscene amount of   money in the bank, he would ”make a point” to not flaunt it that   extensively  —   ”unlike you.” ’ ’   ”I guess our definition of success is just completely different,”   he wrote. ”I used to wear a suit to work every day. I worked hard   so I wouldn’t have to. I bought a big house so I could throw a   football and play whiffleball in it, rather than show it off. I   don’t play golf, I work out. I don’t have an entourage, I have   friends. You talk about how much you are getting paid per   episode, I talk about the fact I’m not. You need to make more, I   have enough. But those are little things.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Cuban said he was a fan of ”The Apprentice,” adding   that his show would be nothing like Trump’’s. ’ ’   If he wanted to do a show like ”The Apprentice,” he wrote that he   ”would have met with Mark Burnett when he wanted to talk about   taking your place after next season.” ’ ’   ”For a lot of reasons, I didn’t want to write this blog entry,”   Cuban wrote. ”In some ways it’s not fair to you to just lay into   you like this. But the point of my blog is to try to tell the   story behind the story that is in the paper.” ’ ” Cuban responded to Trump’s   initial answer to the blog post. Trump told The New York Post   that he didn’t remember meeting Cuban and didn’t say what Cuban   claimed the   magnate had. ” ’   ”First, I don’t expect him to remember me,” he wrote in a   subsequent blog post. ”That’s OK. He meets a ton of people. I’m   sure he doesn’t usually talk to people like he did to us. It’s   possible it was just one of those throw away comments that we all   make from time to time. But facts are facts, Donald. You said   it.” ’ ’   ”I remember it as clearly as I remember the Hawaiian Tropic Model   wannabes with sequin dresses that were on the other side of the   pool watching you come over to us,” he continued. ”The reason   that I remember it as clearly as I do is not simply because it   was you that said it, but rather because I was probably the   poorest guy of the 3 of us at the table. The irony was so rich   (pun intended) I was dying to tell my buddies when I got home.” ’ ’   He said Trump’’s comments didn’’t make him ”a bad guy,” nor did it   mean Cuban didn’’t ”like you.” ’ ’   Cuban  that Trump’’s 2004 response   to the initial blog post ”sounds awful familiar these days.” ’ ’ Trump took a shot at Cuban’’s   ”Benefactor” as he was set to sit in the front row at the first   presidential debate. ’ ’   ”If dopey Mark Cuban of failed Benefactor fame wants to sit in   the front row, perhaps I will put Gennifer Flowers right   alongside of him!”  mentioning a woman former President   Bill Clinton admitting to having an affair with. ’ ’   Cuban announced his support for Democratic presidential   nominee Hillary Clinton at a Pittsburgh rally in July. He   has ripped Trump repeatedly on social media and in interviews,   calling him the most ”dangerous” presidential candidate he could   imagine during a recent interview with Business Insider. Last   month, Cuban  to hold a   policy debate   with him. ’ ”   Earlier in the cycle, he was more enthralled by a potential Trump   presidency, and at different points said he’d be interested in   serving as either Trump’s or Clinton’s running mate. ”