’  ’ ”   It sounds like something out of a Dan Brown book, but it isn’t:   The whole internet is protected by seven highly protected keys in   the hands of 14 people. ” ’   And in a few days, they will hold a historic ritual known as the   . ’ ’   On Friday morning, the world got a good reminder about the   importance of the organization these people belong to. ’ ”   A  for a while when hackers   managed to throw so much traffic at a company called Dyn that   Dyn’s servers couldn’t take it. ” ’   Dyn is a major provider of something called a Domain Name System,   which translates web addresses such as businessinsider. com   (easier for humans to remember) into the numerical IP addresses   that computers use to identify web pages. ’ ’   Dyn is just one DNS provider. And while hackers never gained   control of its network, successfully taking it offline for even   just a few hours via a distributed denial of service attack shows   how much the internet relies on DNS. This attack briefly brought   down sites like Business Insider, Amazon, Twitter, Github,   Spotify, and many others. ’ ’   DNS at its highest levels is secured by a handful of people   around the world, known crypto officers. ’ ”   Every three months since 2010, some  —   but typically not all  —   of   these people gather to conduct a highly secure ritual  where the keys to the internet’s   metaphorical master lock are verified and updated. ” ’   The people conducting the ceremony are part of an organization   called the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers.   ICANN is responsible for assigning numerical internet addresses   to websites and computers. ’ ”   If someone were to gain control of ICANN’s database, that person   would pretty much control the internet. For instance, the person   could send people to fake bank websites instead of real bank   websites. ” ’   To protect DNS, ICANN came up with a way of securing it without   entrusting too much control to any one person. It selected seven   people as key holders and gave each one an actual key to the   internet. It selected seven more people as backup key holders  —     14 people in all. The ceremony requires at least three of them,   and their keys, attend, because three keys are needed to unlock   the equipment that protects DNS. ’ ’  ’ ”   The physical keys unlock safe deposit boxes. Inside those boxes   are smart key cards. It takes multiple keys to gain access to the   device that generates the internet’s master key. ” ’   That master key is really some computer code known as a root     key. It is a password of sorts that can access the   master ICANN database. This key generates more keys that trickle   down to protect various bits and pieces of the internet, in   various places, used by different internet security   organizations. ’ ’   The security surrounding the ceremonies before and after is   intense. It involves participants passing through a series of   locked doors using key codes and hand scanners until they enter a   room so secure that no electronic communications can escape it.   Inside the room, the crypto officers assemble along with other   ICANN officials and typically some guests and observers. ’ ’   The whole event is heavily scripted, meticulously recorded, and   audited. The exact steps of the ceremony are  and distributed to the participants so that if any   deviation occurs the whole room will know. ’ ”   The group conducts the ceremony, as scripted, then each person   files out of the room one by one. They’ve been known to go to a   local restaurant and celebrate after that. ” ’   But as secure as all of this is, the internet is an open piece of   technology not owned by any single entity. The internet was   invented in the US, but the US relinquished its decades of   stewardship of DNS  ICANN is officially in charge. ’ ’   Keenly aware of its international role and the worldwide trust   placed on it, ICANN lets anyone monitor this ceremony, providing   a live stream over the internet. It also  for each ceremony. ’ ’ ICANN will hold another ceremony  —   and this one will be   historic, too. For the first time, it will change out the master   key itself. Technically speaking, it will change the ”key pair”   upon which all DNS security is built, known . ’ ’   ”If you had this key and were able to, for example, generate your   own version of the root zone, you would be in the position to   redirect a tremendous amount of traffic,” Matt Larson,  recently told . ’ ” Here’s an   description of the ceremony by . ” ” Here’s a video of the very first key ceremony, conducted in   2010. Skip to 1:58 to see it. ” ’ ’