’  ’ ’   Learning how to survive on practically no food, with no   electricity, while surrounded by snipers and targeted in   airstrikes, has become a necessary part of daily life for those   still inside the besieged Syrian city of Aleppo. ’ ”   In  former University of Aleppo   student Omair Shaaban described the measures residents have to   take just to survive    in the city they’ve lived in   their entire lives. ” ’   Those include living on the lower floors of buildings to survive   ”the many different kinds of airstrikes, shells, rockets,   phosphorus bombs and cluster bombs”; stay off the street as much   as possible; drive without headlights to avoid being targeted (if   you own a car); sell any extra pasta and bread you may be given   by aid organizations (”there is no meat, no milk, no yogurt”);   and, above all, try to stay calm. ’ ’   ”Hearing bombs going off all the time is hard,” Shaaban wrote.   ”They’re so noisy  —   the sound alone could drive you crazy. So now   I try to ignore it. If bombs detonate nearby, try to forget them,   try to be calm. Go save your neighbors instead of panicking. If   you aren’t calm, you will really go mad.” ’ ’   Late last month, the Syrian government  —   backed by Russian   warplanes  —   launched its most devastating bombing campaign on   Aleppo since the civil war began more than five years ago. ’ ’   ”The destruction is so complete that it obliterates even a sense   of time,” Michael Kimmelman recently. ’ ’  ’ ”   Earlier this month,    argued in  that Russia’s current tactics in Aleppo can be   understood by studying what Moscow did to the Chechen capital of   Grozny 16 years ago. ” ’   Much like Aleppo is today, Grozny was encircled by     forces before being obliterated. In Grozny, though, an estimated   50, 000 people were trapped as bombs rained down on them. Four   times as many people, roughly 250, 000, are under siege in     eastern Aleppo today, according to reports. ’ ’   ”It’s so easy to lose your mind here,” Shabaan wrote. He noted   that going out to look for food, which is scarce and expensive,   is risky because ”you might come back to find that your building   has been destroyed and your family killed.” ”I’ve seen people   standing in front of   buildings, screaming and crying   in disbelief. .. ’ ’  ’ ’   US Secretary of State John Kerry has called for Russia and the   Syrian government to be  over reports that their warplanes   are targeting hospitals and rescue workers inside the city  —     reports that the Kremlin and Syrian president Bashar     continue to deny. ’ ’   ”We look forward today to a very frank discussion about what   potential next steps are,” . ”We intend to jointly figure out how best to be   able to deliver the strongest message possible about the actions   that might be taken to deal with this bombing of Aleppo, this   siege, in the 21st century, of innocent people.” ’ ’   Russia temporarily halted its airstrikes on Aleppo on Thursday   and Friday, but has not specified how long the temporary   ceasefire will last. ’ ’   ”This past week, the regime and the Russians” Shabaan wrote. ”But that has made   everyone afraid  —   we don’t know what’s going to come next. Maybe   the attacks will be worse than before, when they start again.   That’s what happened last time.” ’