’  ’ ”   This week didn’t look good for Apple. ” ”   Google’s new Pixel phone launched to positive reviews,   largely because of the phone’s new digital helper called   Google Assistant. ” ’   As I  of the new Google Pixel, it’s relatively easy to   make a   smartphone these days. The real challenge is   lighting it up with unique software that helps you do more. ’ ’   And the new Google Assistant accomplishes just that. ’ ’   Right out of the gate, Assistant is noticeably smarter and more   capable than Siri, a stark embarrassment for Apple, which had a     head start on Google. AI and voice control are   considered to be the next big step in how we compute (just look   at the early success of the Amazon Echo) and Google has already   pulled ahead. ’ ’’ ’   Assistant is so good because it taps into Google’s vast   network of products and culls them together into a single,     app. The more Google services like Calendar, Photos,   and Gmail you use, the smarter Assistant gets. ’ ’   It’s also better at answering questions than the competition,   thanks to its ability to tap into Google’s vast Knowledge Graph   and deliver the single answer to the question you   ask. Google Assistant has so many impressive skills that   it’s impossible to list them all now. ’ ’   I’m still discovering new capabilities after almost two weeks   with the Pixel. Here’s how I put it : ’ ’   The shame here is that Siri had a   head start on Google   Assistant, and Apple totally blew it. Siri struggles to answer   even the simplest of queries. It wasn’t until two tech columnists    that Siri quickly learned   the answers to some of the . Curious! ’ ’   The reality is Apple can’t be reactive and improve Siri every   time someone blogs about its flaws.  ’ ’   Luckily, the pieces are in place, as Apple has acquired a series   of AI and machine learning companies over the last year or so.   Most notably, it bought the   startup Vocal IQ, which    had technology that allowed   users to control a phone or computer completely with voice. That   also jibes with Apple’s   goal to make Siri fully capable   of controlling the iPhone within the next few years, as . ’ ’   But for now, Google Assistant is clearly in the lead, and that   lead will only get wider as more people use it and increases its   intelligence. ’