’’ ’When I moved from New York City to San Francisco a year and a half ago, I traded the best pizza on earth for unbelievably good burritos. Eternal spring took the place of the four seasons. ’ ”Some things about moving west weren’t quite as sweet.” ’On a recent visit to the Big Apple, I remembered the things I missed most about living there. ’ ’The New York Police Department has issued an ’ ”New Yorkers show little regard for crossing the street at the appointed time or place. San Franciscans, on the other hand, wait on street corners until the light turns. It’s the lawful thing to do  —   but incredibly inconvenient if you’re stuck behind a stagnant pack.” ’’ ”No one does it better than New York. While fans say it’s something in the city water, the act of boiling the uncooked dough rings  what makes them so chewy and dense.” ’When culture site SFist  San Francisco had to offer in 2013 (which were mostly baked, not boiled) it titled the article, ”Bay Area’’s 5 Most Adequate Bagels.” ’ ’New Yorkers and San Franciscans have at least one thing in common: We both like to complain about public transit  —   despite living in the .’ ”New York’s Metropolitan Transportation Authority still beats San Francisco’s ” ’The City that Never Sleeps also has a subway that runs all night. BART tops out at midnight.’ ’San Francisco is where happy hour goes to die.’ ”In the city’s Financial District, where the Business Insider West Coast Bureau is located, bars and restaurants are few and far between. Workers pour into the small number of watering holes still open, which slows service and makes it difficult to travel with a pack.” ”While New York’s Financial District may be as much of a snooze, people in the city tend to make more of an effort to organize   outings with friends and coworkers. ” ’California  bars close at 2 a. m. two hours before New York closing time. ’ ’ ’ ’Last night, I went out to dinner at an Italian   restaurant in San Francisco (where my boyfriend and I sat outside in   weather because the inside was full).’ ’Both tables nearest to us held conversations about tech.’ ’Earlier that day, an Uber driver pitched me on his startup idea.’ ”There’s no escaping Silicon Valley in the city just an hour’s drive north. Some  work in the technology and information industries, accounting for 13% of private sector jobs.” ’Perhaps what I miss most about living in New York City is the diversity of interests and skillsets that make the city so unique. . .. Did I mention the pizza?’