’  ’ ’   Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump on Saturday kicked   off a speech about his plan for his first 100 days as president   by announcing intentions to sue every woman who has come forward   and accused him of sexual misconduct over the past several weeks. ’ ’   ”Every woman lied when they came forward to hurt my campaign.   Total fabrication. The events never happened. Never. All of these   liars will be sued after the election is over,” Trump said in a   speech in Gettysburg, Pennsylvania. ’ ’   At least 10 women have come forward with  against   Trump over the past several weeks. Trump has vehemently denied   the allegations, which have come in the wake of the release of an   explosive video that featured Trump boasting to television   personality Billy Bush about . ’ ”   The remarks came as Trump’s campaign continues to reel from the   fallout of the tape’s release. The speech Saturday came as part   of an attempt to rejigger the campaign in the election’s   final 17 days.  ” ’ ’ ’GETTYSBURG, Pa.  —   Trump addresses the women accusing him of sexual assault: “all of these liars will be sued after the election is over” ’ ’   The majority of Trump’’s speech focused on his planned policies   toward illegal immigration, crime, trade, the Supreme Court,   and more. On his first day in office, he said, he would move to   nominate a justice to replace the late Antonin Scalia, withdraw   the US from the   Partnership trade deal, suspend   immigration from ” ” countries, and more. He also   proposed a ”contract with the American voter” in an attempt to   root out corruption in the federal government.  ’ ’   Trump also vowed, as part of an ”end illegal immigration   act,” to build a wall along the   border with the ”full   understanding” that Mexico ”will be reimbursing” the US. In the   past, Trump has said the US neighbor would pay for such a wall in   full. ’ ’   ”If we follow these steps, we will once more have a   government of, by and for the people,” Trump said. ’ ”   Polls show Trump with significant hurdles to climb in the   election’s final   weeks. The RealClearPolitics average of   recent national surveys puts him down 5. 3 points to Democratic   nominee Hillary Clinton. ”