’    ’ ”   Ohio Gov. John Kasich said he’s stunned at how intense the   growing division is between the US and Russia as the two   countries hit what seems like a   War high in tensions. ” ’ the 2016 Republican presidential hopeful discussed   the recent cyber attacks on the US political system that   intelligence agencies have alleged are   as well as   the tense situation between both nations in the Syrian conflict. ’ ’   ”Well I’’ve been frankly very surprised at the intensity of our   differences,” he said. ”I mean, between what appears to be   hacking of our political system to the aggressive use of nukes on   the borders to these atrocities in Syria and their warnings. I’’ve   been very, very surprised at the intensity of all this.” ’ ’   ”You know, I think to a degree this happens when they spot a   softness in us, which I think for a while they did,” he   continued. ”But I think that’’s coming to an end.” ’ ”   In recent months,  hacks on   prominent Democratic organizations and state election systems to   the Kremlin, alleging that Russian President Vladimir Putin is   trying to meddle in the US election. The  after continued Russian bombing   of Aleppo. Putin  Russia’s participation in a   treaty with the US aimed at eliminating nuclear weapons. ” ’’ ’   Additionally, the US has threatened Russia with   added economic sanctions. Russia’’s  said the country   might take ”asymmetrical” and ”painful” measures if the US pushes   ahead with tougher sanctions, which were first imposed after the   Russian annexation of Crimea from Ukraine in 2014. ’ ’   ”We can’’t beg them to get along with us,” Kasich said. ”And I   think there was some of that going on, which has now ended. ” ’ ’   Kasich called Putin a   Joseph Stalin, the authoritarian   20th Century leader of the Soviet Union,  he   wrote to promote the passing of the   Partnership. ’ ’   He advocated for ”reinforcing NATO” and being ”prepared to take   solid actions” in response to the hackings to ”make it clear that   we will not tolerate any intervention.” ’ ’   ”These are serious matters, and we can never let up on these   sanctions,” Kasich wrote. ”Frankly, we should publicly   increase them.” ’ ’   ”And when it comes to the cyber warfare piece, we’’re going to   have to deal with it,” he concluded. ”I mean it would be very   easy to make an inflammatory statement on what we ought to do on   cyber. I don’’t think that that’’s productive. But to allow the   Russian activity to go unresponded to is not acceptable. So the   administration is going to have to figure out, you know, a tough   response on the basis of this hacking.” ’