’  ’ ’   Ever since Tesla entered the Elon Musk era, around 2008, the   electric automaker has practiced a counterintuitive strategy:   . ’ ”   Musk and the team never live up to the ambitious expectations   they establish, and for good reason. There is nothing to be   gained from aiming low if you’re trying to reinvent a      technology like the automobile. ” ’   That pattern was already due to be modified if not changed   outright, as Tesla moves toward being a   mobility   company with the debut of its $35, 000 Model 3 in late 2017. ’ ’   Customers at that price point  —   and there are already about   375, 000 of them, potentially, based on $1, 000 advance   reservations  —   want what they need when they need it. For   them, a car is less a statement of their embrace of the future   and more a basic means of transportation. ’ ’   Still, Musk could have gotten away with overpromising and   underdelivering yet again, as Tesla tries to ramp up production   and deliveries to 500, 000 vehicles per year by 2018.  ’ ’   But then, on Thursday, Tesla announced that   —   the highest level,   under which the driver is no longer a driver, but rather a   passive passenger being conveyed from point A to point B by a car   that does everything.  ’ ”   (Tesla hasn’t said anything yet about jettisoning the steering   wheel and accelerator pedal, neither of which are necessary   with full autonomy  —   presumably because the lighting     mph times that its cars can clock will remain a selling point,   and some   drivers will want to control their need for   speed.) ” ’  ’ ’   If Tesla can get this massively upgraded version of Autopilot,   currently a    technology, to work and work   reliably, then we will be at the threshold of a     and quite radical disruption in how we get around. ’ ’   The term ”disruption” is tossed about all the time in tech   business circles, but a fleet of fully autonomous and full   electric vehicles, selling for under $40, 000, would be the   beginning of the end for the immediately antiquated conventional   automobile, running on gas and driven by a person. ’ ”   Musk’s timetable for this great leap forward is aggressive: he   says that Tesla will send a driverless . That’s well ahead of schedule for the auto   industry. Ford, for example, doesn’t plan on unleashing a similar   technology until 2021, and General Motors intends to explore full   autonomy in a   collaboration with Lyft in big cities,   taking its time with a consumer application. ” ’   Interestingly, getting   tech into its cars, on the   road, and functioning properly is something that Tesla is very   good at  —   Autopilot is currently     for     in a vehicle you can actually buy.     technologies are a strength for the automaker. ’ ’   Unfortunately, building cars  —   the   technology  —   is   something that Tesla struggles with. Even if the company has a   blowout fourth quarter, it will only just make the low end of its   000 delivery guidance for the full year. ’ ’  ’ ”   But again, overpromise and under deliver. The markets don’t like   this, but the penalty that they inflict on Tesla stock isn’t   intense. Shares might fall far from, say, $200, knocking billions   off Tesla $  market cap. But they won’t collapse, and   this is a company that IPO’d in 2010 at $17. ” ”   And here’s the thing: full autonomy for a Tesla Model 3 is   going to cost something like $8, 000  —   that’s a hugely   expensive option for a   car buyer. It could   obviously be an indispensable one, if the technology works as   advertised. But on this score, underdelivering while continuing   to maintain an elevated, futuristic vision isn’t going to cut it.   The   rubber needs to precisely meet the   road. ” ”   Tesla naysayers have pointed out that with electric vehicles,   there’s nothing all that special about Musk and his company. And   they’re right. Tesla’s packaging is sexy, which has been a   departure from the more virtuous school of EV design, and by   stressing performance over sustainability, the carmaker has   captured hearts and minds.   acceleration at   supercar velocities is pure automotive candy, the opposite of EV   broccoli. ” ”   But four wheels and a couple of electric motors isn’t much of an   engineering challenge, in the grand scheme of things. General   Motors has taken about two years from start to finish to get its   Bolt EV, like the Model 3 priced under $40, 000 but with superior   range, into production. ” ”   Fully   Autopilot is another story. Musk could have   pulled back on Autopilot development after a fatal crash in May,   but he chose instead to stay the course and remain focused on   what he argued were Tesla’s two main mission points: improve   Autopilot and launch the Model 3 on time. ” ’  ’ ’   It was a brave move, based on his belief that 35, 000 annual     deaths in the US alone  —   most the result of driver   error  —   is an intolerable statistic. ’ ”   Electric cars, produced in large numbers, are part of his master   plan to accelerate humanity’s exit from the   era.   Autopilot is intended to save lives immediately. ” ”   Signs are good that the radical upgrade in Tesla’s     tech will be successful. Musk understands that solving a problem   as complicated as making a vehicle fully autonomous demands     computing power, so Tesla’s new Autopilot system  —     made up of multiple cameras and sensors  —   will be managed by a    that what the   carmaker is now using.  ” ’   Musk also knows that what Tesla is calling ”Hardware 2” has to be   integrated with Tesla’’s cars during the manufacturing process. A     technology, along the lines of what Uber is using on its   experimental   fleet in Pittsburgh, won’’t get the job   done  —   it could work on Models S and X but fail on Model 3. ’ ’   But the days of overpromising and underdelivering at Tesla   are coming to an end. A car that can   drive itself   will be epic and damaging compromise. Elon Musk has just made his   most   pledge to date. Now Tesla needs to execute on it   to perfection. ’