’  ’ ”   Tesla CEO Elon Musk’s recent announcement about the  being built into its new   cars just gave the Model 3 a big advantage over the   Chevy Bolt. ” ’   The  is the   first   electric car with a competitive   range that is slated to arrive in dealerships by the end of this   year. It has a range of 238 miles, a sweet price tag of $37, 500   before federal tax exemptions, and a perfectly acceptable top   speed of 91 mph. ’ ’   The Bolt also comes with   features, like     assist and   braking. ’ ”   But if you’re looking to buy an electric car, you may want to   wait for the Model 3. ” ’  ’ ’   What really gives the Model 3 an edge is the driverless tech   being built into it. ’ ’   Musk  Wednesday that vehicles currently   in production, which includes the Model 3, are being built with   hardware that will enable them to be fully driverless, pending   more software validation and regulatory approval. A Tesla vehicle   will drive itself from  as   a demonstration of that technology, Musk said.  ’ ’   In the meantime, the new hardware has    renaming the system Enhanced Autopilot, to match speed to   traffic conditions, automatically change lanes without driver   input, merge on and off highways, and park itself. ’ ’   Enhanced Autopilot will tack on $5, 000 to the Model 3 base price.   To activate the Fully   capability, it will be $8, 000   at the time of purchase. ’ ”   That means you can have a fully driverless Model 3 for $43, 000.   Of course, only time will tell when Tesla rolls out the fully   autonomous update. But in the meantime, you can get a host   of autonomous features for $40, 000. It’s still unclear whether   the Model 3 will be    because it’s slated to arrive in 2018, so we’ll stick to the   $40, 000 to $43, 000 price range. ” ”   That means, upfront, you’re paying at least $2, 500 more than the   Chevy Bolt for a much smarter car. If you factor in the Bolt’s   federal tax exemptions, that price difference does grow. ” ”   However, let’s say you get the full $7, 500 federal tax exemption   for the Chevy Bolt. That means you would be paying $13, 000 more   for a fully driverless Model 3. In the grand scheme of things,   that isn’t a huge difference for a car that could do all your   driving for you. It’s certainly not a big enough difference for   me to commit to an electric car with far fewer autonomous   features. ” ’  ’ ”   Tesla’s Model 3 has baseline specs that are pretty similar to the   Chevy Bolt. ” ’   Musk  that the Model 3 will have   about   range. Yes, that is slightly lower than the Bolt,   but if you really think about it the range difference is   negligible. ’ ”   If you mainly use your car to commute, you’re maybe getting an   extra day or two before needing to   with the Chevy Bolt.   If you want to go on any long trips, there’s really no difference   at all in regards to where you would need to stop. ” ”   It would be one thing if it were the difference between 300 miles   and 215 miles, but that extra   bump by the Bolt won’t have   any meaningful impact on your everyday driving life. ” ”   It’s also worth mentioning that when Musk unveiled the car in   March, he said Tesla aims to exceed the initial range of 215   miles. Considering Tesla is known to roll out cars with several   battery options, it’s likely the Model 3 will inch closer to the   Chevy Bolt’s range. ” ”   For reference, there’s still no word on the expected top speed of   the Model 3. Musk has said the car will accelerate to 60 mph in   less than 6 seconds, which is on par with the Bolt’s   mph   acceleration time of less than 7 seconds. ” ’  ’ ”   A very real caveat to this argument is that the Chevy Bolt will   be made available in a few months while  won’t really commence   until 2018. ” ’   Many will also point to the fact that Tesla does have issues when   it comes to production. ’ ”   Business Insider’s Matt DeBord has gotten into the weeds   about this,  that Tesla’s Fremont plant has the capacity to   assemble 500, 000 vehicles annually, but is only producing a   fraction of that. Tesla’s 2016 goal is to ramp up production   to about 100, 000. ” ’   The Fremont factory will have to handle the Model 3 on top of   production for the Model S and Model X. ’ ’   In a  with Y Combinator’’s Sam   Altman, Musk acknowledged the factory’’s production line had to be   faster, but that he’’s ”confident” Tesla can get a twentyfold   increase of that speed. ’ ’   Musk has set an ambitious target of delivering 500, 000 cars   annually by 2018 and one million cars by 2020. ’ ”   So it does go without saying that if you’re looking for an   electric car right now, the Chevy Bolt is a solid option. But it   would probably make more sense to lease the Bolt in the interim   while waiting for Model 3 deliveries to commence. ” ’  ’ ’   That especially holds true if you consider how crowded the   electric car space will become in the next several years. ’ ’   Audi and Hyundai are both planning on rolling out an     SUV by 2018. Volkswagen is planning to roll out five   electric vehicles by 2020. And Volvo aims to offer at least    one of   which is expected to be a crossover or SUV.  ’ ”   Mercedes is also planning to release an electric SUV by 2019.   That doesn’t even touch on all  entering the space. ” ”   So sufficed to say, electric cars are about to get a whole lot   better in the coming years. If I’m looking to buy, I’d go with   the   Model 3 that could turn driverless before going   all in on the Chevy Bolt, which is really the first of many   future   electric cars to come. ”