’  ’ ’   Where can you find an unbiased, personal finance app   that  ’ ”   That’s what personal finance app  launching on   Tuesday, promises.   ” ”   Clarity Money is cofounded by Adam Dell, Michael Dell’s brother,   and backed by some heavy hitters including the Soros Fund,   Maveron Partners and Bessemer Venture Capital.  ” ’   Once you download the app and link your bank accounts, Clarity   Money promises to analyze your accounts and make suggestions to   save you money. It uses  ’ ’   The app can monitor your daily spending and create a budget,   a and create an FDIC insured   savings account. It can also analyze your existing credit cards   and surface better options, even applying for you right in the   app. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”The whole idea behind it is to give consumers advice,” said   Dell. ”People feel overwhelmed and they don’’t have the tools to   navigate financial relationships.” ’ ’   that promise to use artificial intelligence and machine learning   to evaluate your finances  meaning they only partner with   banks to offer the services of their apps. This means consumers   can only access the app if they already have an account with Bank   of America, Chase or Citi. ’ ”   While this route often makes sense for new startups as they try   to tap into a bank’s vast customer base, it also means they are   inherently biased. For example, if you can only access a personal   finance app through your Chase account, it’s doubtful it will   tell you to switch banks, even if there is a better deal out   there.  ” ’   ”  of customers distrust their financial institutions,”   Dell said. ”They charge consumers a lot of fees and interest.”   Dell wants Clarity to be the advocate for the consumer and the   ”champion” of your money, helping consumers make better   choices.  ’ ’   ’ ’   Clarity Money has so far raised $2. 5 million in Series A   financing from the likes of Soros Fund Management, Maveron   Ventures, and Bessemer Venture Partners. Cofounder and chief data   scientist Hossein Azari hails from Google Research and the   startup partners with Dan Ariely of the Center for Advanced   Hindsight, which  ’ ’   The app currently focuses on bills, savings, credit cards and   personal loans, but plans to move into investing and 401k   planning in the future.  ’