’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   It’s an ambitious move that Snapchat has attempted before in   a more limited manner. But with billions of television ad dollars   at stake and plans for a $25 billion IPO underway, Snapchat is   determined to evolve from a platform where teens trade selfies   into the media powerhouse that reinvents   TV for the     generation.’ ’   Snapchat has been laying the groundwork for a bigger push into TV   for awhile. ’ ’   In 2015, the company had created its own   content   team  and  called ”Under the Ghost.” Both   efforts were shut down as Snapchat regrouped on its content   strategy and  behind it. ’ ”   A year later, Snapchat’s   content strategy is   focused on partnering with networks to develop entertainment   programming, while leaving some of the news coverage to   Snapchat’s editorial judgment, according to the source with   knowledge of the plans. ” ’   In August, the company announced  to develop     episodes of some of its hit shows, including ”The Voice”   ”Saturday Night Live” and ”The Tonight Show With Jimmy Fallon.”   It was a process that took two years to court the network and   develop the show ideas, . ’ ’   Snap is also  both in Los Angeles and New York to   ”oversee the development and production of scripted and   unscripted programming  —   from pitch to pilot. ” The   development managers are not only supposed to represent Snapchat   when working with external producers and media partners, but also   generate their own ideas for new shows and field pitches from the   outside producers. ’ ’   To attract external producers and artists to the   app, Snapchat is also now being included in coverage updates   from lead talent agencies like CAA and WME,  which first reported Snapchat’s   inclusion on the updates in early October. The coverage updates   from talent agencies normally list who is looking to buy content,   from your traditional TV networks to new companies like   YouTube and Netflix.  ’ ’ ’ ’   According to  who viewed WME’’s coverage update,   Snapchat is specifically looking for shows in the six to eight   minute range  —   ”  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Earlier this week, Snapchat broadcasted a news story from the   front lines of the attack on ISIS in Mosul,  from an   ABC news correspondent to Iraqi citizens to views from the   humanitarian camps in its partnership with the United   Nations.  ’ ’ ’ ”   In an interview with Mashable’s Kerry Flynn about the Mosul   video, Snap’s head of original content Sean Mills said that its   push into breaking news isn’t met to upstage its Discover   partners but to show a different point of view and complement the   traditional media. ” ’  ’ ’   ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’