’  ’ ’   During a  for control of Mosul  —   the last stronghold of   the Islamic State (ISIS) in Iraq  —   militants burned down a   chemical plant that spewed choking, corrosive gases across the   Middle East. ’ ’   One of two images  the first taken on October 22 by   its Aqua satellite, shows a giant plume of   smoke   billowing from a sulfur fire. ’ ’   It comes from the   sulfur mine and processing facility,   which is located about 24 miles south of Mosul  —   right where a     coalition of Iraqi and Kurdish forces are trying to   advance toward Mosul as they take back villages and towns. ’ ’   The   smoke comes from the sulfur plant, while the black   smoke from  months ago in a town called   Qayara: ’ ’  ’ ’   Burning sulfur is not something you want to breathe in, let alone   even touch your skin  —   or your community. ’ ’   When set on fire, sulfur combines with oxygen to form sulfur   dioxide: a colorless, pungent gas that is  according to the   Canadian Center for Occupational Health and Safety (CCOHS). ’ ’   ”A severe,   exposure may cause   respiratory   effects,” states the CCOHS website. ’ ’   The reason is that when sulfur dioxide meets water, it instantly   dissolves to form sulfuric acid  —   in throats, on wet skin, in   damp soil, and more. ’ ’   ”People in the area affected by the smoke said it was difficult   to breathe, burned their eyes and stung their noses and throats   when they inhaled it, and burned any exposed wet skin as the   cloud intermittently blew over the area depending on winds,”   wrote journalists Ben Kisling and Gordon Lubold in  about a day   after ISIS lit the fire. ’ ’   NASA says the sulfurous blaze is visible from space only because   it contains other  that reflect light. ’ ’   But a second satellite image, taken on October 24, reveals just   how far the invisible cloud of sulfur dioxide spread beyond Iraq   to other countries, including Syria and Turkey: ’ ’  ’ ”   The darker and redder the overlay shown in this image, taken by   NASA’s Aura satellite, the more dense the cloud was at the time. ” ’   Although the Wall Street Journal reports that  the amount of toxic smoke   released by the blaze might inflict lasting damage on the region   and its people. ’ ’   When sulfur dioxide gets into soil by merging with water, it    leach out minerals, compromise   agriculture, and harm nearby aquatic life through runoff. ’