’  ’ ’   CNN anchor Wolf Blitzer called out Donald Trump for encouraging   hostility toward journalists who cover his rallies. ’ ’   Blitzer pleaded with Trump campaign manager Kellyanne   Conway for the Republican nominee to take it easier on   members of the press. ’ ’   ”They go to all the rallies, they’’re in this pen, he points   to them, he sort of eggs the crowd on to go after them,”   Blitzer said. ”And they’’re a lot of young journalists there.   They’’re scared sometimes.”  ’ ’   ”I know them all, I respect them all,” Conway began to answer,   before Blitzer cut her off. ’ ’   ”He shouldn’’t be doing that,” Blitzer fired back. ”Could you talk   to him and say to him, ’’Mr. Trump, we only have a few days left.   These are hardworking young journalists. They deserve some   security. ’’” ’ ’   Conway attempted to partially shift the blame to journalists   themselves, who she said were being overly negative in their   coverage of Trump. ’ ’   ”Their Twitter feed is for some of them, we’’ve done an analysis,   85, 90% negative towards Donald Trump,” Conway said. ”You   didn’’t hear anything good to say? There’’s nothing good to report   that day that you would actually put in your Twitter   feed? So I think the responsibility has to go both   ways.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Trump has made no secret of his  over the course of his campaign,   and began escalating his rhetoric after a number of women    of sexual assault. In recent weeks, he has   accused the media of supposedly ”rigging” the election in favor   of Democrat Hillary Clinton  —   a claim he repeatedly makes with no   evidence to back it up. ’ ”   In response, Trump supporters have  to embedded journalists at his   rallies. Some have described  they’ve encountered on the   campaign trail. ” ’   On ”The Situation Room” on Tuesday, Conway said she would   relay Blitzer’’s request to the candidate, who she said was   ”probably watching right now.” ’ ’   If Trump was, the message fell on deaf ears. About 20   minutes later, at a rally in Tallahassee, Florida, Trump   blasted the press once more. ’ ’   ”There is nothing more corrupt than those people,” he said to   roaring applause. ”They are a corrupt group.” ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tA note that we just received from someone attending the Trump rally here in Tallahassee:  ’ ’ ’ ’. asks  to have Trump stop calling out the media at his rallies ’