’  ’ ”   I’m sitting in a San Francisco,   restaurant   waiting for my chopped salad, when a group of tall, white men   wearing   and fleece vests crowds around the cash   register. ” ”   My boyfriend, who works in venture capital, spots them and says   they’re VCs. ” ’   ”Do you know them?” ’ ’   ”No,” he says. ”The fleece vests. It’’s a giveaway.” ’ ”   It’s true. The fleece vest, often in black and from outdoor   clothing retailer Patagonia, has become the most     item in an investor’s wardrobe.  ” ’   No one seems to know how the fashion faux pas turned into a   staple, and yet, the fleece vest is inescapable in Silicon   Valley. ’ ”   For example, Reid Hoffman, cofounder of LinkedIn and a   partner at Greylock (whose investment portfolio includes Airbnb,   Facebook, Flickr, and Zynga) rocked a Patagonia Men’s   Better Sweater Fleece Vest in Harvest Moon Blue. It retails for   $99 on the website. ” ’  ’ ’   Marc Benioff, who has led Salesforce to  private cloud software companies in the   world, wore a   black vest on stage at   TechCrunch Disrupt earlier this year. ’ ’  ’ ’   Angel investor Joanne Wilson, the ”Gotham Gal,” invests across   all industries, from food, to gyms, to real estate. She elevated   the black fleece stereotype with this       vest. ’ ’  ’ ”   Business Insider spoke with several venture capitalists for this   story and could not track down what brought on the vest’s   popularity. But we have some theories. ” ’   A practical reason why the vest might be so popular is, it   gets chilly   in the Bay Area. ’ ’  ’ ’   As investors make trips up and down the Bay, meeting with   entrepreneurs, sitting in on board meetings, and negotiating   deals in   weather, it helps to zip up. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Patagonia has another explanation. They just make darn good   vests. ’ ’    ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Patagonia was clearly very important,” Toyon said. ”You walk   around University Avenue and look at all the people wearing   Patagonia during the day. It’’s kind of crazy.” ’ ”   The vest trend even spans from Silicon Valley to New York City’s   Silicon Alley. ” ”   Henry McNamara, a general partner at New   Greak Oaks   Venture Capital, tells Business Insider he also owns a fleece   vest. He’s not sure why he sees so many in the wild. ” ’   ”I guess I’’ve never really thought about it,” McNamara says. ”I   just really like vests.” ’ ’ Disclosure: The author is in a relationship with an employee   of Andreessen Horowitz. ’