’  ’ ’   A federal court jury delivered a surprise verdict on Thursday   acquitting   militant leader Ammon Bundy and six   followers of conspiracy charges stemming from their role in the   armed takeover of a wildlife center in Oregon earlier this year. ’ ’   The outcome marked a stinging defeat for federal prosecutors and   law enforcement in a trial the defendants sought to turn into a   pulpit for airing their opposition to U. S. government control   over millions of acres of public lands in the West. ’ ’   Bundy and others, including his brother and   Ryan   Bundy, cast the   occupation of the Malheur National   Wildlife Refuge as a patriotic act of civil disobedience.   Prosecutors called it a lawless scheme to seize federal property   by force. ’ ”   Jubilant supporters of the Bundys thronged the courthouse after   the verdict, hailing the trial’s outcome as vindication of a   political ideology that is profoundly distrustful of federal   authority and challenges its legitimacy. ” ’   ”We’’re so grateful to the jurors who weren’’t swayed by the   nonsense that was going on,” defendant Shawna Cox told reporters.   ”God said we weren’’t guilty. We weren’’t guilty of anything.” ’ ”   As the    trial in the U. S. District Court in   Portland climaxed, U. S. marshals wrestled to the floor Ammon   Bundy’s lawyer, Marcus Mumford, as he argued heatedly with the   judge over the terms of his client’s continued detention. ” ’  ’ ’   The Bundys still face assault, conspiracy and other charges from   a separate armed standoff in 2014 at the Nevada ranch of their   father, Cliven Bundy, triggered when federal agents seized his   cattle for his failure to pay grazing fees for his use of public   land. ’ ’   The outcome of the Oregon trial clearly shocked many in the   packed courtroom. Attorneys exchanged looks of astonishment with   the defendants, then hugged their clients as the     verdicts were read amid gasps from spectators. ’ ’   Outside the courthouse, supporters celebrated by shouting   ”Hallelujah” and reading passages from the U. S. Constitution. One   man rode his horse, named Lady Liberty, in front of the   courthouse carrying an American flag. ’ ’   The verdict came after four days of deliberations. One juror, a   former federal employee, was dismissed over questions of bias on   Wednesday and replaced by a substitute. ’ ’  ’ ’   The   panel found all seven defendants   six men and a   woman   not guilty of the most serious charge, conspiracy to   impede federal officers through intimidation, threats or force.   That charge alone carried a maximum penalty of six years in   prison. ’ ”   Jubilant supporters of the Bundys thronged the courthouse after   the verdict, hailing the trial’s outcome as vindication of a   political ideology that is profoundly distrustful of federal   authority and challenges its legitimacy. ” ’   ”We’’re so grateful to the jurors who weren’’t swayed by the   nonsense that was going on,” defendant Shawna Cox told reporters.   ”God said we weren’’t guilty. We weren’’t guilty of anything.” ’ ”   As the    trial in the U. S. District Court in   Portland climaxed, U. S. marshals wrestled to the floor Ammon   Bundy’s lawyer, Marcus Mumford, as he argued heatedly with the   judge over the terms of his client’s continued detention. ” ’   The Bundys still face assault, conspiracy and other charges from   a separate armed standoff in 2014 at the Nevada ranch of their   father, Cliven Bundy, triggered when federal agents seized his   cattle for his failure to pay grazing fees for his use of public   land. ’ ’   The outcome of the Oregon trial clearly shocked many in the   packed courtroom. Attorneys exchanged looks of astonishment with   the defendants, then hugged their clients as the     verdicts were read amid gasps from spectators. ’ ’   Outside the courthouse, supporters celebrated by shouting   ”Hallelujah” and reading passages from the U. S. Constitution. One   man rode his horse, named Lady Liberty, in front of the   courthouse carrying an American flag. ’ ’   The verdict came after four days of deliberations. One juror, a   former federal employee, was dismissed over questions of bias on   Wednesday and replaced by a substitute. ’ ’  ’ ’   The   panel found all seven defendants   six men and a   woman   not guilty of the most serious charge, conspiracy to   impede federal officers through intimidation, threats or force.   That charge alone carried a maximum penalty of six years in   prison.  ’ ’   The defendants also were acquitted of illegal possession of   firearms in a federal facility and theft of government property,   except in the case of Ryan Bundy, for whom jurors were deadlocked   on the charge of theft.  ’ ’   The takeover of the wildlife refuge was initially sparked by   outrage over the plight of two imprisoned Oregon ranchers the   occupiers believed had been unfairly treated in an arson case.   But the militants said they were also protesting larger   grievances at what they saw as government tyranny. ’ ’   The standoff led to the shooting death of one protester, Robert   ”LaVoy” Finicum, by police shortly after the Bundy brothers were   arrested, and left parts of the refuge badly damaged. ’ ’   More than two dozen people, in all, have been criminally charged   in the occupation, and a second group of defendants is due to   stand trial in February. ’ ’   Mumford told reporters he believed Ammon and Ryan Bundy would   remain in custody for the time being but may be transferred to   Nevada. ’ ’   Four   were free on their own recognizance during the   trial. A fifth, David Fry, the last of the occupiers to surrender   in February, was released hours after the verdict. ’