’  ’ ’   Gary Johnson, the Libertarian presidential candidate, tried to   change the subject to marijuana legalization when a reporter   pressed him on his tax policy in an interview, published   Thursday, that grew increasingly heated. ’ ’   ”Well, I’’m an idiot,” Johnson said, sarcastically opening the   interview with . ”Really, I’’m the dumbest guy   you’’ve ever met in your life.” ’ ”   Johnson was alluding to the fact that interviewers have continued   to harp on his publicized gaffes in recent weeks, including    Syria’s largest city, and not   being able to name  ” ”   After a contentious discussion of Johnson’s poll numbers  —   he’s   hovering around 5. 8% in the RealClearPolitics average  —   Lewis   turned the conversation to the Libertarian nominee’s tax policy. ” ’   Johnson said that he wanted some ”certainty” that taxes wouldn’’t   go up. He launched into a defense of his record of not raising   taxes ”a penny” as a   governor of New Mexico. ’ ’   ”We’’re not getting elected king or dictator,” Johnson said. ”If   Congress passes tax reduction, tax simplification, I sign on to   it. But I also recognize that government picks winners and   losers, that crony capitalism is alive and well.” ’ ”   Johnson’s campaign, however, has said that his administration   would abolish the IRS and replace . ” ’   When Lewis said ”most of the world’’s major economists” think   Johnson’’s tax plan wouldn’’t work, a visibly angry Johnson   responded that ”he didn’’t want to argue,” and tried to steer the   conversation toward marijuana legalization. ’ ’   ”I came out for the legalization of marijuana  —   let me just use   that as an example,” Johnson said. ”And I will tell you that I   had people in my face for years, and years, and years, telling me   about how stupid and how idiotic it was that we should allow   marijuana to be legal.” ’ ’   ”What’’s that got to do with your tax policy?” Lewis asked. ’ ’   ”It’’s leadership,” Johnson said. ’ ”   Joe Hunter, the communications director for Johnson’s campaign,   emailed Business Insider a statement: ” ’ ’