’  ’ ”   Marco Rubio’s   data team sounded off on Donald Trump   and his own data operation during a recent interview with   Business Insider. ” ”   That team, part of the data firm Optimus, told Business Insider   that there were a few things they’d be doing differently had they   been working with the Republican nominee’s campaign. ” ’   ”That giant Twitter list  —   he basically used it to hurl   invectives at his opponents,” Optimus   Brian   Stobie said. ”To people that already largely believe what he   thinks. How about instead, you try and recruit those people to   follow you into the field offices. You had this platform. Build a   landing page and get people directed into offices.” ’ ’   Fellow   Scott Tranter added that the ”hard part about   Trump is that a lot of his stuff isn’’t completely wrong,” such as   his touting of his digital platforms, but he just   hasn’’t used them to their maximum potential. ’ ’   Admitting that he would probably not listen to his advice, Stobie   said he would’’ve pushed him a lot harder on nailing the messaging   aimed at undecided  —   ”marginal”  —   voters. ’ ’   ”I worry that he goes to a lot of these events and says stuff and   is feeling great because the crowd’’s going with him, when he   mentions these angry lines,”  said. ”I think   one of the things his campaign is struggling with is that that   plays well with a certain group but not to the broader electorate   we need to win. ’ ’   Trump needed someone to go ”man, we showed this to a random   ass control group of undecided voters and not good,” he added.   ”That said, I pity the campaign folks because I don’’t think he   listens to this stuff. But if I had a rational candidate, that’’s   what I’’d do to get him off this   harm factor.” ’ ’   They both said Trump was able to soundly beat Rubio in the   primary because he was able to garner more earned media than   Rubio could buy  —   even though much of that attention was   negative. ’ ’   ”If the media is going after a Republican primary candidate, it   is like crowning him,” Stobie said, adding that there are bound   to be a fleet of Trump copycats spring up in the coming years,   although he doubts it will be effective on a House or     campaign. ’ ’   ”We’’re actually in the middle of a big study right now we’’re   going to release afterwards where we’’re going to look at the   Republican electorate and understand what happened,” Tranter   said. ”Everyone’’s heard the pejorative or the phrase ’’there are   two Americas. ’’ You might argue that the Republican primary   electorate does not see the world as we do.” ’ ”   On Thursday, a bombshell report on Trump’s data team   detailed their strategy to suppress the turnout of three voting   blocks.  according to an unidentified   senior official, was aimed at discouraging three groups   Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton needs to turn out at the polls    —   white liberals, millennial women, and black Americans  —   from   voting. ” ’  ’ ’   During the interview with Business Insider, Stobie called the   race ”probably over, especially when you look at early vote.” ’ ’   Tranter’’s answer was even more straightforward: ”He won’’t.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Earlier in the cycle, when Rubio appeared to have a shot at the   GOP nomination, his data team was written about as ”The Moneyball   campaign” .  ’ ’   According to  either the Rubio campaign or the Reclaim America   PAC spent more than $1 million on Optimus’’ services in the 2016   cycle. Bloomberg  company as ”the Washington consulting firm to   which Rubio has outsourced his data operation.” ’ ”   Rubio’s campaign was the second client the firm ever had. Back in   2013, they were brought on to work for the   Reclaim   America PAC, two years before the Florida Republican would even   announce his presidential run. ” ’   ”They didn’’t make a spending allocation unless they consulted   us,” Tranter said. ’ ’   Tranter and Stobie said their research ran so deep, they even   spent a substantial amount of time simply figuring out where to   send Rubio for campaign stops, based on what an event would mean   from an earned media perspective.  ’ ’   ”Which like, no one thinks about, because earned media is worth   way more,” Tranter said. ”You think about the TV buy or   [instead] ’’OK, now it’’s time to lease that private jet   because we can get one and a half extra stops in a day,   times that by 10 days, that’’s worth $3 million on TV.   Little stuff like that, getting the extra inches.” ’ ”   After Rubio’s campaign ended in   Tranter said they had   the opportunity to work for both Trump’s campaign and the   Republican National Committee at the presidential level. They   decided against doing so. ” ’   But, Tranter’’s ”guess” is that the firm will be doing   another presidential campaign for the 2020 cycle. ’ ’   ”Politics will always be something we do,” he said. ”They allow   the most freedom and iterations.”  ’