’  ’ ”   Peter Muller is one of Wall Street’s revered quant traders  —   but   a work imbalance early in his career nearly derailed him. ” ’   Muller joined Morgan Stanley as a trader in 1992 and launched   PDT, or Process Driven Trading, the seed of his current   hedge fund firm. Muller and his team used   computers   and algorithms to beat markets. ’ ’   PDT is known to have powered lofty returns. Building out PDT was   no easy feat. Muller, a   math whiz, ended up giving   up a childhood passion  —   music  —   as the business ramped   up. ’ ’   Before he joined Wall Street, Muller, a pianist, was in a   jazz band, and even played for rhythmic gymnasts after college,   according to a  published in January.  ’ ”   So giving that up threw everything out of balance, Muller said in   an interview with Business Insider this week. He was   speaking ahead of the Pete Muller Trio’s next show, Thursday   evening, at a charity event at New York’s  supporting a group that builds clean water projects in   the developing world.  ” ’  ’ ’   By 1999, he needed a break and went on sabbatical, traveling the   world and playing music in the New York subway. When he came back   to Morgan Stanley, he took on an advisory role for the next   several years, and became less involved in the      operation of PDT. That gave him more time to play music and   rebalance. He eventually met his wife, and had two kids. ’ ’   ”I took a big step back,” he told Business Insider. ”And I   figured, I’’m going to pursue music. .. I recorded a couple of   albums, and I became executive chairman of the group that I   built. And I realized that I needed both [music and work]  —   they   both feed and influence the other.” ’ ”   He told Morgan Stanley that he was going to perform with his   band at least once a month. He’s done so for the past nine   years.  ” ’   ”The music opens me up emotionally,” he said. ”There’’s joy   and passion in it. And the business gives me something   competitive to do. And I am much better at both of those things   because I do both. .. that was an insight that took me a long time   to figure out.” ’ ”   His hedge fund firm  and he’s been running it full   time ever since. PDT managed $5 billion as of     according to Hedge Fund Intelligence’s Billion Dollar Club   ranking, up from about $4. 5 billion last year. ” ’   The firm charges some of the highest fees in the industry, and   its largest fund returned 21. 5% net of fees in the first 11   months of last year, according to .   Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for Muller, declined to provide   more recent performance figures. ’ ’   Muller says he still has a ”crazy, busy life” but he’’s able to   balance it all, performing with his band at least once a month   for charities. ’ ”   His firm’s   also helps. Trading based on models means he   doesn’t need to be in front of a computer all day, and   operates like a research lab, he said. ” ”   You can watch a sample of Muller’s music below:  ” ’ ’ ’     ’