’  ’ ’   Four cities are preparing to vote on ballot initiatives that   could present a major challenge to big soda.  ’ ’   On November 8, residents of Boulder, Colo. and three cities   in the Bay Area  —   San Francisco, Oakland and Albany, Calif.    —   will vote on whether or not to implement a tax on sugary   drinks. ’ ’   The California initiatives would tax soda at a rate of 1 cent per   ounce. The Boulder tax would be 2 cents per ounce.  ’ ”   A new study from Harvard’s T. H. Chan School of   Public Health found that the proposed soda taxes would   lead to millions of dollars in savings on healthcare   costs.  ” ’   Researchers found that initiatives would result in a   nearly 20% drop in soda consumption. The study, which used   computer modeling to project the impact of the proposed taxes,   also found that a decrease in soda consumption would have a   direct effect on the health of the people in the area.  ’ ’   According to the study, the incidence of diabetes in the three   California cities would drop an estimated 4% by 2018   when the tax would be in full effect. The study also   predicted that 6, 000 fewer people in the area would be   obese by the end of 2025. In turn, this reduction in rates   of obesity and diabetes would cut healthcare costs in   the by $54. 9   million over 10 years. ’ ’incidence of diabetes by an estimated 10% in the   city. Healthcare costs would decrease by $6. 4 million over 10   years. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Our analysis looks beyond revenue and finds that this excise tax   on sugary drinks can generate significant prevention of new   cases of obesity, diabetes, improved quality adjusted life years   and healthcare cost savings,” Dr. Steven Gortmaker, a   professor of health sociology and lead investigator on the   project, said in a statement. ’ ’   Critics said the study is politically motivated.   ’ ’   ’ ’   Few cities in the US that have successfully passed   similar taxes.  ’ ’   In Berkeley, Calif. soda  ’ ’   While taxes likely play a role in deterring consumers, other   factors may be at play as well. ’ ’   ”The    reduction in consumption in Berkeley   could also reflect effects of the campaign surrounding the tax,   which may have shifted social norms,” the study said.  ’ ’   In July, Philadelphia passed a tax of 1. 5 cents per ounce of     and artificially sweetened soft drinks  —   a tax   expected to raise approximately $91 million over the next year. ’ ’   Soda taxes have been passed on a national level in   Great . ’ ’  ’ ’    ’ ’   ’ ’     ’ ’  ’ ’Smaller cans   contain fewer total calories than large bottles, which may make   them more appealing to consumers. They also generally cost more   per ounce. ’ ’  ’ ’   In 2015, for example, an 8.  aluminum bottle of Coke   generated $1. 60 in revenue per purchase, while a   gallon   only generated $0. 18. That’s nearly nine times the revenue. ’ ’  ’ ’   In April,  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   These   options could provide an opportunity for   growth, even as The Berkeley   soda study found that when people decreased their soda   consumption, they replaced it with healthier choices. Water   consumption (bottled or tap) increased 63% in Berkeley after the   soda tax went into effect. ’