’  ’ ”   Wish, the stealthy   company that’s challenging Amazon,   has filed to raise a new round of funding,  by research firm .  ” ’   According to the Oct. 24 filing for its parent company   ContextLogic, the company has authorized new shares to be sold,   although the size of the round, investors, and valuation are not   disclosed.  ’ ”   A person familiar with the round told Business Insider that’s the   round is almost closed and could be announced within the   next few months. The capital will be going toward shortening   delivery times and improving discovery on the     site.  ” ’   The Delaware filing does include a nice deal sweetener,   however. ’ ”   A provision in the Delaware filing cites that investors in the   current get special liquidation preferences. That means if Wish   sells for less than it’s valued in this round, the latest   investors will get all of their investment back before any   earlier investors see a penny. It basically limits the   downside for this round of investors.  ” ’’ ”   These types of preferences are not uncommon, but are a concession   by the company  —   Wish wouldn’t offer these terms if it didn’t   think it was necessary to raise these funds. ” ’   The filing also sets conditions on an IPO, saying that preferred   shares held by investors only convert to common shares if the   company raises at least $500 million at a $6 billion   valuation. ’ ’   Wish has been described as the   company Fab was   supposed to be. It sells cheap but stylish products by   optimizing social channels like Facebook and Instagram. The   result is super cheap products, like $9 dress shirts or a $15   smartwatch, that often take weeks to deliver.  ’ ’   The company has reportedly previously  and been valued at  by investors. But it hasn’’t gotten much   press because CEO Peter Szulczewski doesn’’t want or need any.   When we first reached out to Szulczewski, in December 2014, he   wrote that he was ”humbled and a bit surprised” to find himself   on Business Insider’’s radar, since he and the company ”try to   keep a very low profile.” Last year,  was spending over $100   million on Facebook ads, making it one of the social network’’s   largest advertising customers. ’