’  ’ ’   Some of the most important gains made by the Afghan government   and its partners appear to be slipping away, according to the   most recent quarterly report  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   US forces in Afghanistan, cited by the SIGAR, reported     of the country was under insurgent control or influence or at   risk of coming under it. AFP reported in October that fighting   between militants and Afghan and foreign forces had . ’ ’  ’ ”   Decreased security in some parts of the country also posed a risk   to the investment made in Afghanistan’s road infrastructure. ” ’   ”Since 2002, USAID and DOD have spent approximately $2. 8 billion   to construct and repair Afghanistan’s road infrastructure, and   perform   activities,” SIGAR said in a release   for a separate . ’ ’   ”An Afghan Ministry of Public Works’ (MOPW) official stated that   20 percent of the roads were destroyed and the remaining 80   percent continue to deteriorate,” the inspector general added. ’ ’   The US Agency for International Development, cited by SIGAR,   found that 54% of the country’’s roads were poorly maintained and   ”required rehabilitation beyond simple repairs.” Those repair and   maintenance efforts had been  by lack of funding, weak capacity,   corruption, and insecurity. ’ ”   The deterioration of Afghanistan’s road networks could limit the   government’s ability to access parts of the country, limit   commerce, and hinder Afghans’ freedom of movement. ” ’   The eroding security situation also threatens some of the social   gains that have been made in the county in the 15 years since US   and allied forces invaded. ’ ’  ’ ’   In parts of the country under insurgent control or influence, or   at risk of it, ”the Taliban seek to punish women who work or   study outside of the home,” the SIGAR  states. ”A number of the women interviewed   had their lives threatened or had relatives killed by the   Taliban.” ’ ’   In 2006, only 8% of Afghanistan strongly or somewhat disagreed   with the statement that women should have the same education   opportunities as men, according to SIGAR. In 2015, the number   that disagreed had risen to 21%. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’