’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’ to US Rep. Jason       Chaffetz, chairman of the House Oversight Committee, the FBI       was “reopening” the investigation. But this was wrong.       filled       in details. Having told Congress that he would keep them       abreast of developments in the Clinton case, Comey was       obligated to send them this letter.     ’ ’       The emails didn’t come from Clinton; there was no withholding       of evidence from either Clinton or her campaign; and the       emails themselves came from outside her server. Specifically,       the FBI  them from a       device used by Anthony Weiner, as part of its investigation       into his allegedly sexting an underage girl.     ’ ’  ’ ’       That leaves us with the politics of the revelation. How will       it affect the election? Could the mere mention of “emails”       change perceptions toward Clinton?     ’ ’       When the news first broke, conservative commentators were       sure that this would change the shape of the election. “This       is not good for Team Clinton,”  of       National Journal. One vocal commentator, Matt       Mackowiak, insisted that this “” and       that the uncertainty of it all was “. ”     ’ ’     At this stage, we have no idea how this development will shape     the last 11 days of the presidential race. Tens of millions of     Americans have already voted in battleground states like North     Carolina, Florida, Texas, and Nevada. Given the effect of past     email news, it’s possible this will turn off independent or     undecided voters from Clinton. It’s also possible that her     negatives are already baked in and won’t budge. And it’s     possible, perhaps likely, that it won’t matter at all.   ’ ’     Everyone agrees that American politics is more partisan and     more polarized than it’s ever been. But not everyone grasps     why that’s important. It’s not just Congress and the     ability of our institutions to make progress and accomplish     their goals. It’s also our elections.   ’ ’     This polarization is so strong, in fact, that it renders the     gaffes of recent elections almost irrelevant.   ’ ’     The folk theory of American democracy is that citizens     deliberate on the issues and choose a candidate. That is false.     The truth, as political scientists Christopher Achen and Larry     Bartels describe in  is     that voters are tribalistic. Their political allegiances come     first, and their positions and beliefs follow.   ’ ’     We’ve seen this with Donald Trump. Support for free trade is a     longstanding belief within the GOP, but Trump is a major     opponent, slamming most of the trade deals of the past 30     years. You would think that this would depress his support     among Republican voters. It didn’t. Instead, those voters     changed . Their beliefs followed their affiliations, not     the other way around.   ’ ’  ’ ’     When it comes to elections —  or at least, presidential     elections —  this leads to an important conclusion: What a     candidate believes is less important to voters than     his or her partisan affiliation. Trump has passionate     supporters who believe in his message of ethnonationalism and     racial exclusion. But the reason he’s a stone’s throw from the     White House isn’t because he’s convinced 50 million Americans     that he’s right.   ’ ’     The reason Trump is relatively close is that he’s the     Republican presidential nominee, and in a partisan, highly     polarized country, that’s enough. In the past four presidential     elections, major party nominees have won the vast majority of       —  upward of 90 percent. Simply having the nomination     is sufficient to put anyone in firing distance of     becoming president, regardless of larger circumstances or     events or personality deficiencies.   ’ ’       There are still battles to fight, but they happen on the       margins and involve a small share of voters. This       polarization is so strong, in fact, that it renders the       gaffes and incidents of recent elections almost irrelevant.       Mitt Romney’s remarks on the “47 percent” in the 2012       election were bombshells that changed the immediate landscape       of the election. But a month later, the effect had died down.       In a real way, it didn’t matter.     ’ ’       Again, we’ve seen the same with Trump. Scandals affect his       numbers, but he always recovers, as Republicans return to his       camp. It’s even happening now, as GOP voters look past the       Access Hollywood tape to line up behind the real       estate mogul.     ’ ’       If the final week of an election is a time of mass       mobilization and hyperpartisanship, then the best odds are       that the Weiner emails —  and the renewed focus on Clinton’s       email server —  won’t matter. Indeed, that’s what it       means for an electorate to be polarized. Whether       pundits even begin to understand that is a separate question.     ’