’’ ”Investors have one big question for Facebook: What’s next?” ’The company has ridden  over the past few years and is expected to grow revenue by a healthy 54% when it reports Q3 earnings on Wednesday. ’ ’But Facebook execs have warned that the meteoric revenue growth rates are due for a slowdown next year as the company reaches the into the News Feed.’ ’’ ’Some of these, such as video ads and Instagram, are already contributing to the top line  —   and investors are eager for Facebook to put the pedal to the metal and accelerate growth even more. Others, like Oculus, may continue to suck in investment dollars without a clear payoff in sight.’ ”Shares of Facebook are up roughly 5% over the past three months, outperforming the Nasdaq Composite and the Dow Jones Industrial Average, and reflecting Wall Street’s continued faith in the world’s largest social network.” ’But as the company gets closer to reaching the   ad load limit in   pressure for new revenue engines is sure to grow.’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’Facebook has also been ramping up its monetization strategy for Instagram, and eMarketer now predicts the app will generate $1. 86 billion in advertising revenue by the end of 2016. ’ ”More recently, Facebook has started letting a small percentage of Instagram users  although it doesn’t currently facilitate purchases.” ’’ ’’ ’Some of the other big bets Facebook has made are still far away from producing a payoff.’ ”WhatsApp, which Facebook acquired for $22 billion in 2014, is starting to show early signs of revenue potential through  that linked WhatsApp and Facebook accounts for the first time. The plan is for businesses to be able to communicate directly with the messaging app’s one billion users, although businesses haven’t been given the ability to do so yet as they have in Messenger.” ”Facebook’s 2014 acquisition of Oculus for $2 billion has yet to show meaningful returns, but experts believe it could show potential once VR hardware becomes cheaper and enough compelling content is created for people who aren’t avid gamers.” ’”It’s still early days for high end VR and there are still a number of barriers to entry such as price and content,” Niko Partners analyst Daniel Ahmad told Business Insider. Those barriers need to be removed before the market for high end virtual reality can take off, he said.’