’  ’ ”   Former Pennsylvania Sen. Rick Santorum  —   who sought the   Republican presidential nomination in both 2012 and 2016  —     unloaded on Ohio Gov. John Kasich and other GOP primary   candidates who’ve refused to back nominee Donald Trump. ” ”   Santorum went on the rant after being asked about what he thought   of Trump’s character, particularly after the leaked 2005 tape   from   showed the Manhattan billionaire boasting of   being able to make sexual advances on women without their   consent because he was famous. Santorum said that was abhorrent,   but Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton also has character flaws. ” ’   After knocking Kasich and House Speaker Paul Ryan for ”how   they’’re conducting themselves” this general election cycle, he   homed in on the Ohio governor. On Monday, Kasich said he had   cast a   ballot for president, voting for Sen. John McCain   of Arizona, the 2008 Republican nominee. ’ ’   ”I want to say to John Kasich, if you’’re watching: John, you   signed a pledge! You signed a pledge saying you would support the   Republican nominee for president. You signed a pledge to get on   the ballot in South Carolina. You promised that you would follow   through with that, and you knew that Donald Trump had a chance   because he was leading in the polls at the time to be our   nominee, and you signed it anyway,” Santorum said. ’ ’   He said Kasich’’s voting decision should ”frankly” not ”be paid   attention to” because he ”can’’t keep his word.” ’ ’   Kasich ended any chance of backing Trump following the release of   the 2005 tape, which he admitted the contents of were not that   surprising to him.  ’ ’   ”John, you are better than that,” Santorum said. ”John was a dear   friend in Congress and I know John’’s better than that. Jeb Bush,   I would say the same thing to you. You signed a pledge. I would   say the same thing to other candidates who have not stepped   forward and said, ’’I’’m going to support Donald Trump. ’’” ’ ’   The Pennsylvania Republican insinuated that candidates who   believe Trump’’s character is ”beneath the dignity” of the   presidency, don’’t have any room to talk because they’’re   abandoning the pledge to support the GOP nominee. ’ ’   ”I’’m going to tell your kids and grandkids that you signed a   pledge to run for president and backed away from it,” he said.   ”Shame on them.” ’ ’’ ’. to John Kasich, Jeb Busch and Republicans not voting for Trump: ”You signed a pledge. ..shame on you” ’