’  ’ ’   The US Coast Guard reported a record cocaine haul in 2016  —   more   than  significantly exceeding the   previous record of 367, 700 pounds intercepted in 2008. ’ ’   The haul was seized during 263 Coast Guard counterdrug operations   during the last fiscal year, which ran from October 1, 2015, to   September 30 this year. ’ ’   The total wholesale value of the cocaine seized was  according to the Coast Guard,   which  it detained 585 suspects in FY2016,   another record that bested the 503 detained in FY2015. ’ ’   Of the suspects detained this past fiscal year,  were transferred to the US for   prosecution  —   up from 373 last year. ’ ’   In the  below, the crew of Coast Guard Cutter   Waesche unloads 39, 000 pounds of cocaine on October 27, a drug   load seized in international waters of the coast of Central and   South America. ’ ’ ’ ’   The crew of the Waesche intercepted a     semisubmersible (SPSS)  —   a vessel often called a narco sub  —      on September   6. ’ ’   The  was the first SPSS captured by the   Waesche during FY2016 and the sixth captured by the Coast Guard   during the same period. ’ ’   The crew of Waesche  the SPSS with the aid of an armed helicopter   crew, eventually catching it and removing five suspects. The   people aboard the SPSS apparently tried to sink it, but Coast   Guard personnel were able to pump the water out. ’ ’  ’ ’   SPSS vessels are typically hard to detect  —   their hulls are   mostly underwater and only a cockpit and exhaust pipe protrude   above water. ’ ’   Seizures of them are relatively uncommon, but they are   believed to carry a significant portion of the illegal narcotics   that make it to the US. ’ ’  ’ ’   According to a US Foreign Military Studies Office report,    in 2012   came via maritime routes  —   and 30% of the drugs that came to the   US by sea were carried on narco subs. ’ ’   The amount of cocaine seized at ground crossings along the     border .  ’ ’   But over that same period, seizures in other border sectors,   particularly maritime borders, have been considerable. ’ ’   During the last fiscal year, US Coast Guard apprehended more than   250, 000 pounds of cocaine, valued at nearly $3. 5 billion. ’ ’   ”In an average year, Coast Guard interdictions   amount to   more than three times the quality of cocaine seized at U. S.   borders and with in the country combines,” the Coast Guard    in a release. ’ ”   Given the immense profits that can be reaped from just one   multiton load of cocaine smuggled into the US aboard a narco sub,   as well as drug traffickers’  for underwater smuggling,   it’s unlikely that the Coast Guard will run out of drugs to seize   any time soon. ”