’  ’ ’   The murder trial of a South Carolina police officer who shot an   unarmed black man last year is underway, with attorneys from both   sides delivering opening statements on Thursday. ’ ’   Michael Slager, a former North Charleston police officer, is   facing life in prison for the fatal shooting of Walter Scott. The   shooting sparked outrage and nationwide debate over police   violence against minorities. ’ ”   Here’s what you need to know about the trial: ” ’   Walter Scott was a    black man from South Carolina who   worked as a forklift operator. He served in the US Coast Guard    before being granted a discharge   under honorable conditions for a   offense. ’ ’   Scott had a lengthy arrest record  —   His record listed ”about 10   arrests,” mostly for failing to pay child support, according to   Charleston’’s . ’ ’’ ’   On the morning of April 4, 2015, Slager  —   a North Charleston   officer with five years of experience  —   pulled over Scott for   having a broken brake light.  shows that Slager spoke to Scott, and when he   returned to his police vehicle, Scott left his car and fled, with   Slager chasing him on foot. ’ ”   The chase led Slager and Scott to a grassy lot behind a pawn   shop.  recorded on a cell phone begins with Slager   firing his Taser at Scott as Scott flees. Wires appear to be   extending from Scott’s body. ” ’   The video shows Scott slowly running away as something  —   possibly   the Taser  —   falls to the ground behind the two men. Slager shoots   at Scott eight times as he is running away, hitting him five   times, . ’ ’   Slager claimed in his report that Scott had taken his Taser, and   that he shot Scott because he felt ”threatened” and feared for   his life. ’ ’   Three days after the shooting, Slager was arrested and charged   with murder. A South Carolina grand jury later indicted him on   the charge. Slager faces 30 years to life in prison without the   possibility of parole. ’ ”   Slager was also indicted on federal charges: violating Scott’s   civil rights, unlawfully using his weapon in the commission of a   crime, and obstruction of justice. No date has been set for that   trial. ” ’   The key to the case will likely be whether the jury determines   Slager was in   danger when he fired at Scott. ’ ”   In her opening statement, prosecutor Scarlett Wilson argued that   Slager’s actions were extreme and unwarranted, according to   . She said Slager lied about the incident by claiming   Scott took his Taser and was approaching him with it. She also   said Slager staged the crime scene by dropping the Taser near   Scott’s body. ” ”   The defense argued in its opening statement that Scott provoked   the shooting. Slager’s attorney Andy Savage said Scott had in   fact taken away Slager’s Taser, and that the officer did not know   whether Scott was armed, ABC News reported. He will likely argue   that the   video does not give the full picture of what   happened. ” ’   The jury consists of 12 people  —   six white men, five white women,   and . ’ ”   Some locals fear the trial’s verdict could polarize the   community. ” ”   The Slager trial will coincide with next week’s trial of Dylann   Roof, a  accused of killing nine black people in a   Charleston church in 2015. City leaders have urged residents to   refrain from violence during the two trials, . ”