’  ’ ’   When the European Space Agency (ESA) lost contact with half of   its ambitious ExoMars 2016 mission  —   the Schiaparelli lander  —   on   October 19, the probe was falling from the Martian sky like an   incendiary bomb. ’ ”   Previous photos showed the crash site in    but   new color photos paint an even clearer view of   Schiaparelli’s final moments. ” ’   The    probe survived a harrowing atmospheric reentry   and a jerky parachute deployment during its   descent. ’ ’   However, an unknown computer glitch led to its doom. Schiaparelli   was supposed to fire up its rocket engines for about 30 seconds,   then gently plop onto the surface of Mars. They only fired for 3   seconds. ’ ’   The result? ’ ’   The probe hit the ground at more than 185 mph with a belly full   of fuel, catastrophically exploded, and left a sooty crater: ’ ’ ’ ”   The ESA is getting  using   NASA’s Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter (MRO) which keeps passing   over and zooming in on the carnage. ” ’   Until now, those images have all been in   . ’ ’   On November 1, however, MRO took a photo through three filters   with its    allowing image technicians on Earth to give the image red, blue,   and green values  —   and bring the crash site into full focus and   color. ’ ’   In the new color image (below) you can make out details that   were previously hidden in the low contrast of      images. ’ ’   ”For example, a number of the bright white spots around the dark   region interpreted as the impact site are confirmed as real   objects  —   they are not likely to be imaging ’’noise’’  —   and   therefore are most likely fragments of Schiaparelli,” the ESA   said in . ’ ’   Basically, the white spots  —   now visible in the color image  —     appear to be chunks of the   probe: ’ ’  ’ ’   To get a sense of scale, the main dark splotch spans about 80   feet  —   about the length of two city buses. The curved dark streak   at the upper right of the image is between 110 and 120 feet long,   which is more than twice as long as two semi trucks. ’ ”   MRO has also taken enough   images to better   resolve the lander’s parachute and heatshield. ” ”   The HiRISE team animated a handful of images from October 25   through November 1, and they show the probe’s parachute flapping   in the wind, anchored in place by its heavy backshell. This human   relic may billow and flutter in the light Martian breeze for   centuries, unless of course a future Martian colonist comes to   pick it up and put it into : ” ’ ’ ”   The ESA says it will be looking more closely at the heatshield’s   landing site, since that may offer some clues as to what went   wrong and when. ” ”   It hasn’t moved, so they hope to construct a   image to   check its orientation and other details: ” ’  ’ ’   ”Further imaging is planned in about two weeks, and it will be   interesting to see if any further changes are noticed,” the ESA   said. ’ ’   The space agency has launched an investigation into the failed   mission. ’ ’   According to the last bits of data it beamed to Earth, the      probe survived a harrowing atmospheric reentry at   13, 000 mph, popped off its heat shield, and deployed a parachute. ’ ’   But Paolo Ferri, the ESA’’s head of mission operations,  that something ”unexpected” occurred when   Schiaparelli was supposed to fire up its thrusters and gently   plop onto the surface of Mars. ’ ’   Engineers have worked day in and day out since they lost contact   with the probe to deduce what happened. ’ ’   Their best guess so far? A computer glitch made the robot think   it was close to the ground when it was actually a mile high. ’ ’  ’ ”   MRO helped confirm this conclusion by taking a photo of   Schiaparelli’s suspected landing site a day after it was supposed   to arrive: ” ’ ’ ’   The animation alternates between two views of the site: one   photographed in May 2016, and the second on October 20. ’ ’   The right pane is a   view of the site. It clearly shows   a dark spray of material that spans 130 feet, roughly a     building on its side  —   a sooty black stain that used to be   Schiaparelli. ’ ”   An October 25 image from MRO more clearly shows the locations of   the lander’s crash site, heat shield, and parachute and   backshell: ” ’  ’ ”   Had Schiaparelli landed, it would have been the ESA’s first   spacecraft to safely reach the surface of the red planet. ” ’   Unfortunately, these images mean the probe has joined a growing   . ’ ”   For Russia, which collaborated with the ESA on the mission,   Schiaparelli is the nation’s seventh failed Mars landing  —   though   it put two satellites into Mars’ orbit while it was still the   Soviet Union. ” ”   Fortunately, Schiaparelli is just   of the ; the other half is Schiaparelli’s mother   ship, the . The ESA said the orbiter    which means its task of sniffing for   methane on Mars  —   a potential sign of microbial life  —   can begin. ” ”   The lander’s mission was designed as a precursor to a more   ambitious rover mission planned for 2020, so it’s more of an   engineering    than a science mission. Still, the   mission failed, and officials were quick to downplay the loss. ” ’   ”We should remember this landing was a test,” Ferri said on   October 20. ”And as part of the test, you want to learn what   happened,” no matter the outcome. ’ ’   Before Schiaparelli, humanity  to touch Mars with penetrators, landers, and wheeled   rovers. Only eight missions have succeeded. ’ ’   The last time the ESA tried to land a probe on Mars, in 2003, it   failed. Its Beagle 2 lander successfully jettisoned from an   orbiting spacecraft. Aside a final signal before its descent,   however, the robot never contacted Earth again. ’ ”   It wasn’t until January 2015  —   more than a decade later  —   that   NASA’s MRO  in a satellite image. A   subsequent investigation found that its solar panels had failed   to deploy, so it never mustered the energy to phone home. ” ”   Had the new Schiaparelli probe survived, it would have also taken   pictures of its descent and attempted to measure Mars’ electric   field for the first time and . ” ’   May it rest in pieces. ’