’  ’ ”   This year’s contentious presidential election has drawn early   voters out in waves, with both Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton   and Republican nominee Donald Trump calling on supporters to cast   their ballots before Election Day. ” ’   At least  either in person or by   mail, by Friday, according to the . ’ ’   But recent developments in the campaign may have some voters   wishing they could change their mind. ’ ’   Three states  —   Michigan, Wisconsin, and Minnesota  —   allow voters   to switch their votes before Election Day. Despite  Pennsylvania does not allow absentee   voters to change votes. In Connecticut, it is up to the local   town office, a  official told Business Insider.  ’ ’   Changing your vote can be quite the headache for election   officials, since they have to track down your ballot and     the paperwork. ’ ”   In Michigan, absentee voters can change their   ballots if they haven’t been processed and tabulated yet,   according to an official at the . ” ’   If you want to change your absentee vote there, . The best chance to change   your vote will be before 4 p. m. on Monday (since Election Day is   often too busy or too late). Offices are open Saturday until   2 p. m. ’ ’Wisconsin residents who voted early in   person can recast their ballot so long as they do so by   Saturday, November 5, an election official told Business Insider.   The deadline for absentee voters who mailed their votes in to   change their choice has past, he said. ’ ’Minnesota also allows absentee voters to change   their minds, but the . ’ ”   The call to change votes began last week after news broke that   the  from Clinton’s private email   server. Trump quickly encouraged voters to switch their choice. ” ’   ”Now that you see that Hillary was a big mistake,” Trump tweeted   on November 2, ”change your vote to MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!” ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tYou can change your vote in six states. So, now that you see that Hillary was a big mistake, change your vote to MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN! ’t’t’ ’   The candidate was slightly off on the number of states that will   allow the unusual practice (he was likely referencing a  that was     or perhaps a ). ’