’  ’ ’   The   Koch brothers, Charles and David, responded   late Friday to a bombshell claim from billionaire businessman   Mark Cuban alleging they supposedly tried to bribe Republican   nominee Donald Trump to get out of the race. ’ ’   ”That is simply not correct,” Steve Lombardo, chief   communications and marketing officer at Koch Industries, told   Business Insider. ”I really don’’t have anything more to add to   that other than it is incorrect.” ’ ’   Cuban, a prominent supporter of Democratic nominee Hillary   Clinton,  aboard   Clinton’’s plane following a rally for the candidate in   Pittsburgh that the Kochs ”tried” to get Trump out of the   presidential race. ’ ’   ”They tried,” he said, when a reporter mentioned the Kochs. ”I   know they did.” ’ ’   Cuban, the owner of the NBA’’s Dallas Mavericks and star of   ABC’’s ”Shark Tank,” added that the Kochs ”didn’’t offer   [Trump] enough” to drop out. ’ ’’ ”   He later clarified he didn’t mean the Kochs were involved. ” ’   Writing to  the   billionaire said in an email that ”someone” tried to recruit   him to make a Trump offer. ’ ’   ”I had discussion about a Trump buyout,” Cuban wrote. ”That’’s as   much as I can tell u.” ’ ’   Cuban did not say who was involved and said he did not ask many   questions about the idea. The conversation was held shortly after   the Democratic National Convention in July. He could not confirm   that an official offer was made. ’ ’   ”Supposedly an amount was presented to Trump and he said no,” he   wrote, adding that the proposal ”sure seemed serious.” ’ ’   It was discussed as a ”buyout.” ’ ’   ”The word bribe was never used,” he wrote. ”It was a buyout.   That’’s the way it was discussed.” ’ ”   Charles and David Koch, two of the biggest donors in   Republican politics with a combined net worth of nearly $100   billion, have abstained from boosting Trump’s candidacy.   Another Koch brother, Bill,  for Trump at his   Cape Cod residence. ” ”   The Trump campaign didn’t immediately respond to a request for   comment. ”