’  ’ ’   The Pentagon has a group of people who, quite literally, review   pornography for the US military. ’ ’   It’’s not a review that gives a    of the   action. Instead, a board of military and civilian officials has   to review material and determine whether it’’s ”sexually   explicit,” as it’’s against the law for hardcore porn  on military bases. ’ ’   Though the regulation has been in effect for quite some time   and remains so, a source recently tipped us to a Freedom of   Information Act request at the website  that offered a few more details on the inner   workings of this review process, and what kind of titles the   board banned for sale to US troops. ’ ’   The earliest year of banned titles that the FOIA uncovered was   from 2008, which included magazines titled ”Nasty Housewives” and   ”Cheri.” The 2006 board included magazines such as ”30   Something,” ”Raunchy Couples,” ”Young & Stacked,” and videos   ”Beach Babes 2,” ”Bikini Traffic School,” and ”Obsessed with   Lust.” ’ ’   The 2006 board reviewed many more video titles and deemed them to   be ”not sexually explicit,” which included some from Playboy   and talk show host Jerry Springer, such as ”Bad Boys &   Naughty Girls” and ”Too Hot for TV.” Apparently, Jerry Springer   is not too hot for the troops to watch. ’ ’   The DoD doesn’’t ban all media that has nudity in it,   and service members can walk into their post exchange and   pick up a magazine such as Playboy, Maxim, and FHM, for example.   It bans what is deemed ”sexually explicit” material, which it   defines as nudity that is depicted in a lascivious way.   Lascivious, the regulation says, is material that is ”lewd and   intended or designed to elicit a sexual response.” ’ ’   Though even this definition is left up to interpretation. Some    DoD to ban all porn,   ”lascivious” or not. ’ ”   It seems strange that military members, most of whom are over the   age of 18, are not allowed to buy pornography on a military base.   Though they can go   to get it, and there’s nothing saying   troops can’t view it online. ” ’   ”I believe this proposed rule is not only an excellent example of   agency waste, but a direct infringement of Constitutional Rights   that employment by the DoD in any manner cannot supersede,” one   person  of the regulation, for the public   comment period at the Federal Register.  ’ ’   ”So not only can a man or woman be sent into harm’’s way without   questioning the reasons for being sent, but they can’’t even   purchase from the exchange or PX material that is   deemed lascivious?” wrote another. ’ ’  ’ ’   The ban of porn on PX shelves stems from a 1996 law called the   Military Honor and Decency Act. The law sought to restrict sales   and rentals of sexually explicit material on bases, and though it   was challenged on first amendment grounds, it was upheld as   constitutional by an appeals court in 1997. The porn ”” held its first meeting on   July 29, 1998. ’ ’   According to meeting minutes released under FOIA of what is   called the Resale Activities Board of Review, it takes about a   day or two for the Pentagon to figure out what is and is not   porn. ’ ’   Once everyone is present, the Board is called into session by its   chairman. Members, who are either members of the military or DoD   civilians, represent each branch of service. Typically, the chair   goes over the regulation again with the members before presenting   the material for review. In 2006, the board looked at 18   magazines and 6 videos. In 2007 and 2008, they checked out 23 and   24 magazines, respectively. ’ ’   After they’’ve reviewed the materials, they vote by secret ballot,   the documents show. And once it’’s deemed ”sexually explicit,”   it’’s supposed to come off the shelves. ’ ’   The board  the DoD about $5, 500 a year. ’