’  ’ ’   Barbara Corcoran was only 24 years old when she left her waitress   job in Fort Lee, New Jersey, to sell real estate across the river   in Manhattan. ’ ”   She had no background in real estate, but her hotshot new   boyfriend told her she’d be a natural marketer and had to give it   a shot. Their relationship and business partnership would not   survive, but Corcoran took her half of the company they founded,   The Corcoran Group, and turned it into one of Manhattan’s   premiere agencies before selling it for $66 million in 2001. ” ’   Later, she became a television personality and has been one of   the ”Shark Tank” startup investors for the past seven years. ’ ’   This unpredictable course of events defined her worldview. ’ ’   ”I think the best time to take a risk at anything, including   leaving your job and starting your own business, is the moment   you think about it,” Corcoran said in . ’ ”   A viewer asked her for advice for weighing graduate education   against jumping into one’s career. ” ’   ”I weigh it simply, in a practical sense,” Corcoran said. If you   want to be a lawyer, get a law degree; if you aspire to a     position on Wall Street, get an MBA. The important   thing is to consider how that student loan debt is going to   affect your life once you graduate, and if that burden is truly   necessary, she explained. ’ ’   ”I think the important thing is to ask yourself, ’’What’’s going to   make me happy? ’’” she said. It’’s difficult to find that answer   when you’’re young and so you have to approach it ”the   same way we find out what clothing looks good on us: Try a lot   on.” ’ ”   This embracing of risk is how in her early 20s Corcoran realized   that even though she had bachelor’s in education, her natural   ability to connect with people and her eye for design meant she   was perfectly suited for the real estate industry. In your 20s,   she explained, you need to be willing to experiment with your   career. ” ’   ”You just have to try on a number of jobs to see what gets you   excited, and that’’s where you want to go,” she said. ”And more   often than not, you’’re not going to find that in a classroom.” ’ ’ ’