’  ’ ’   Presidential elections in America are typically seen as a binary   choice between two   candidates  —   currently, Donald   Trump and Hillary Clinton. ’ ’   But the 2016 election brings the potential of a spoiler  —   and   Republicans have taken notice. ’ ’   If independent candidate Evan McMullin, a former Republican   congressional policy leader who just entered the race three   months ago as the ”Never Trump” candidate, wins his home state of   Utah, it’’s possible that neither Trump nor Clinton would reach   the requisite 270 electoral votes to win the presidency. ’ ’   McMullin  in Utah, but just   weeks ago,  between McMullin, Trump, and   Clinton, a notable feat considering that Utah is a reliably     state. ’ ”   McMullin’s popularity in Utah is also striking considering   the fact that,  only 52% of voters said they were aware   enough of his candidacy to offer an opinion on him. And of those   who are aware of him, four out of five say they view him   favorably. ” ’   Trump is aware of the problem. He attacked McMullin   last week and noted that his campaign could have a ”major   problem” if McMullin threatens him in Utah. ’ ’   ”The guy takes votes away from me,” Trump  last week. ”You know, we’’re going to win Utah. But   he takes votes away from me, this man who I never heard of.   . .. Now, if for some reason we lose Utah that could have a   very devastating impact on the overall.” ’ ’   Other prominent conservative voices have also bashed McMullin in   recent weeks. ’ ’   Conservative commentators Laura Ingraham and Lou Dobbs have   attacked McMullin on Twitter: ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tLook Deeper, He’s nothing but a Globalist, Romney and Mormon Mafia Tool       ” ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tBlame the  folks (Romney?) for pushing McMullin in Utah. Voters won’t forget.  ” ’   And Sean Hannity, a Fox News host and Trump loyalist, went off on   McMullin on his radio show last week. ’ ’   ”Who’’s this idiot that’’s running third party that’’s killing Trump   out in Utah,” Hannity said. ”Who put him up? What was it? The   Bush people? The Romney people?” ’ ’   If McMullin managed to pull off a win in Utah, he’d be the first   candidate outside of the Democratic and Republican parties to win   a state in a presidential election since 1968. ’ ’   And his campaign views Republican attacks as a sign of   Republican panic. ’ ’   ”The Republican Party has major internal and organizational   issues both in Utah and beyond,” McMullin campaign manager Joel   Searby told Business Insider in an email. ”Everyone   acknowledges that. And now Evan and our movement are offering a   viable conservative alternative. So I believe they feel   threatened.” ’ ’   Still, his only shot at the presidency is to win Utah, block   Trump and Clinton from reaching the set number of electoral votes   they need, and then hoping that once the decision goes to the   House of Representatives, they could pick him for the presidency. ’ ’   Data journalism website FiveThirtyEight  at 1% to 3% and   his  at 12%. ’ ’   In interviews with Business Insider, some Republicans   shrugged off the threat that McMullin could pose to Trump. ’ ’   ”Two new polls came out today that show he’s in the low 20s at   best,” said Sean Spicer, communications director for the   Republican National Committee. ”I am literally appalled by the   media fascination with this. There is no evidence that he is   within single digits in a state, and yet it garners national   news. It is embarrassing for the press.” ’ ’   Spicer referred to McMullin as a “  independent candidate”   and said there is “no evidence to suggest” that talk of him   winning Utah is ”anything more than a bunch of folks in the   media.” ’ ’   But even if victory seems somewhat unlikely for McMullin, voters   in conservative, religious Utah appear reluctant to support a   Republican nominee whose candidacy has been mired by scandal. ’ ’   ”I think a lot of people in Utah have significant moral   sensibilities,” said Ben Carson, a prominent Trump surrogate and   former Republican presidential candidate. ”And, you know, when   you look at some of the things that Donald Trump has said, you   remember, this is a guy who was a billionaire playboy. So the   sensibilities are going to be quite different I think than your   average Iowa citizen.” ’ ’   In one recent scandal, Trump was recorded making lewd   comments about women. The recording, from 2005, was released last   month. One poll showed that 94% of Utahns had watched or   heard about the recording, and 51% said they believe Trump should   drop out of the race altogether. ’ ’   Carson cautioned Utahns against casting a ”protest vote” against   Trump on Election Day. ’ ’   ”I’’ve been so impressed with the intelligence and the common   sense of the people in Utah,” he said. ”And I think when push   comes to shove, they will recognize what’’s going on and how   taking a risk in a situation that is a   situation like with   Evan McMullin doesn’’t make a lot of sense.” ’ ’   In the days leading up to the election, McMullin will be   traveling across the state in an effort to consolidate support. ’