’  ’ ’   When Tinder launched in 2012, every match felt like an adrenaline   rush, or at the very least, a spark. ’ ”   But those matches are no longer quite as exciting.   Oftentimes, they lead to quick hookups,  or nothing at all. That leaves a big opening for   Tinder’s dating app competitors . ” ”   Although Tinder has a huge user base () other dating apps, like Bumble and   Coffee Meets Bagel, are meeting a larger percentage of their   users’ expectations. A  looked at the user reviews of  ” ’  ’ ’   ’ ”   The main difference between these newer apps and Tinder is that   they’re not heavily  . They give users the ability to   show more of their interests, personality, and identity.    ” ”   Bumble, an app that launched in 2014, is a somewhat popular   Tinder competitor with  as of 2015. It has a similar   interface as Tinder, but doesn’t quite have the same   reputation as being a hookup app. That’s because only women   can message their matches first on Bumble. ” ’   Straight men seem to like the app because women seem to take more   initiative in starting a conversation, as Bryan Bumgardner, a      Tinder and Bumble user, explains. He says he has   gained more quality matches on Bumble than Tinder, which he views   as an app primarily for hooking up. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’    ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’     ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Michelle, a bisexual    says that she has   migrated to Her from Tinder. The reason: when she changes   the setting on Tinder to ”seeking men and women,” the genders of   people that pop up are not equal. ’ ’   ”I still see probably 95% men,” she says. ”And it’’s really   frustrating to feel like my dating app is pushing me to be   heteronormative.” ’ ’   Her also wants to be a social network too and hosts regular   events, something Tinder is exploring with  (a feature that encourages friend   groups to meet up). ’ ’   Michelle adds that Tinder is ”primarily for hookups,” while Her   feels like a community as well as a place for dating. She   considers Tinder as more of a   a place to   garner matches as physical affirmation. ’ ’   She also likes  an app   that launched in 2014. Instead of random   strangers,  ’ ’   ”It feels like more of a natural connection that you might make   in the real world rather than just proximity,”   Michelle says. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Tinder’s reputation as being a place where people only     is, of course, a generalization. People do find relationships and   love on the app. ” ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’