’  ’ ’   As pollsters, pundits, and partisans fret over what the potential   electoral map will look like on Election Day, there is a scenario   in play that would throw the country into temporary chaos: a tie. ’ ’   Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton and Republican nominee Donald   Trump have several paths to a possible    tie in the   Electoral College, a scenario that would cause the election to be   thrown to the House of Representatives and decided by the     Congress. ’ ’   Here are some of the maps that could play out, sending this   election into its potentially final firestorm: ’ ’  ’ ’   The above map is one of the more likely ways Election Day ends in   a tie. It requires Trump winning New Hampshire, North Carolina,   Florida, and Nevada, and states that appear to be a bit more in   his favor such as Ohio, Arizona, and Iowa. ’ ”   Here’s  that   each candidate would need to win, per the RealClearPolitics   averages: ” ’Florida: Clinton +0. 2 ’ ’Colorado: Clinton +2. 9 ’ ’New Mexico: Clinton +3. 5 ’ ’Ohio: Trump +3. 5 ’ ’Michigan: Clinton +4. 7 ’ ’Pennsylvania: Clinton +2. 4 ’ ’New Hampshire: Clinton +0. 6 ’ ”Maine’s Second Congressional District: Trump   +0. 5 ” ’Maine: Clinton +4. 5 ’ ’North Carolina: Trump +1. 4 ’ ’Virginia: Clinton +5 ’ ’Nevada: Trump +1. 5 ’ ’Iowa: Trump +3 ’ ’Arizona: Trump +4 ’ ’Georgia: Trump +4. 6 ’ ’  ’ ’   This map has a few changes from the above map, and would seem   more unlikely. This would require Clinton winning Ohio and Trump   pulling off wins in Colorado, New Mexico, and Maine in addition   to the states he won above. ’ ’  ’ ’   This tie would be possible if Trump held onto Ohio while Clinton   maintained leads in New Mexico and Maine and captured Nevada and   New Hampshire. But the biggest flip would be in Michigan, where   Clinton and Trump have blitzed in recent days. ’ ’  ’ ’   An even trickier map would involve Clinton holding on to New   Mexico, Michigan, Nevada and Maine, winning North Carolina, and   flipping Arizona. Trump wins Ohio, New Hampshire, Iowa, and   Florida. ’ ’  ’ ’   Clinton wins a Nebraska congressional district while Trump wins a   Maine congressional district. Trump wins Wisconsin, Arizona,   Florida and New Hampshire. Clinton also wins North Carolina and   Nevada. ’ ’  ’ ’   BONUS: An elector in Washington state said last weekend he would   not vote for Clinton should she win. While this would not end in   a    tie, neither candidate would hit 270. Clinton   winning Colorado, North Carolina, Nevada, Maine, and New Mexico   while Trump wins Pennsylvania, Florida, Arizona, and New   Hampshire could lead to this. ’ ’  ’ ’   It could also happen with Trump winning New Mexico and North   Carolina while Clinton holds on to Pennsylvania. ’