’  ’ ’   Barbara Corcoran and Donald Trump have had a   —      —   but Corcoran fondly remembers the   time she met Trump. ’ ’   Corcoran, now best known as one of the stars of ”Shark Tank,”   built her fortune and reputation with the Corcoran Group, which   she established as one of New York’’s premiere real estate firms. ’ ’   In 1983, Trump oversaw the completion of Trump Tower in   Manhattan, and had established himself as a force in the   industry. Corcoran, who was 34, was intimidated by him. ’ ” and though she didn’t want to get into   politics, she brought up a story about the Republican   presidential nominee when a viewer asked how to deal with fear of   failure. ” ’   ”I still doubt myself. I’’m ashamed to admit that after all these   years,” Corcoran said. But when she’’s afraid, a ”tape reel”   starts playing in her head, drowning out a negative inner   monologue. While she may be best known for the way she freely   speaks her mind, she said that in her 20s and early 30s she was   very insecure. ’ ”   A turning point came in the early ’80s, when Corcoran notified   Trump that his Trump Tower residential properties, which he was   advertising as the most expensive condominiums in the   world (this was back when such a claim was appealing) were   actually in the bottom tier of the     list she   was about to publish. As soon as he got the message, he called   her to his penthouse office. ” ’   ”I was scared to death in that mirrored elevator going to the top   floor of Trump Tower,” Corcoran said. ”Thinking that bad voice:   ’’Oh, my God, what did I do this for? I’’m in hot water. What am I   going to do? ’’” ’ ’   She willed herself off the elevator and stepped into his office,   into a small chair that seemed to shrink beneath his giant desk. ’ ’  ’ ’   Trump was furious, she recalled, and he was yelling and gesturing   wildly. Mid rant, ”all of a sudden I got the first inkling of   that tape: ’’Oh, yeah? You’’re not talking to me like that,’’” she   said. ’ ’   ”One of the most memorable and treasured moments of my life    —   it sounds so stupid how you treasure these things  —   but   was when I got up out of that mini chair he stuck me in, went   over to his side of the desk and had the courage to put my hand   on his shoulder and look over his shoulder.” ’ ’   Trump was thrown off, she remembered, and the power dynamic   shifted into her favor. She presented an idea to him: If she   changed the way she was measuring ”most expensive” (she couldn’’t   remember the specifics, but it was something like      versus    ) then Trump could rightfully take   the No. 1 spot he so desperately wanted. ’ ”   They agreed to a deal where Trump would be able to advertise his   properties with this tagline as long as he included the Corcoran   Group’s branding on all advertising. ” ’   ”I got paid very well for finding the voice and the courage   within me that day, and I’’ve been practicing it ever since,”   Corcoran said. ’ ’ ’