’  ’ ”   Historic division brought out voters in droves this presidential   election. More than  before Election Day,   breaking early voting records and fueling Democrats’ confidence   in clinching the presidency. ” ”   But by the time most of the votes had been counted, it became   clear that nearly every poll’s expectation to crown Hillary   Clinton as the 45th president was drastically wrong, and   Republican Donald Trump would be heading to the White House. And   that possible   turnout had a lot more asterisks   attached to it. ” ’   The data available Wednesday afternoon show over 128 million   ballots had been counted, according to the . But results were still trickling in, so the overall   turnout could end up being higher. That preliminary total   suggests that only 56% of eligible voters actually voted this   year. ’ ’   For some Americans, the two names at the top of the ticket were   so unpalatable that they opted out of voting for president at   all, instead focusing on   races. In 14 states,    than voted for the   presidency. ’ ”   The highest overall voter turnout was 131 million Americans in   the 2008 contest between Barack Obama and John McCain, according   to the . This year’s turnout would have to surpass   that mark to set the new record. ” ”   While 2008’s turnout sounds impressive, it wasn’t the highest   percentage of voters that ever hit the polls. ” ”   That was in the race between Democrat Samuel J. Tilden and   Republican Rutherford B. Hayes in 1876, when 83% eligible voters   turned out. That election was similarly contentious to this   year’s, with Hayes squeaking out a victory of  after a lengthy political and legal battle. ” ’   Of course, that was before women had the right to vote, and when   minorities were still routinely disenfranchised, so that high   percentage mostly applies to white men. ’ ”   While 2008’s overall total sounds impressive, only 58% of the VAP   turned out to vote that year. The  over the last century, but voter   turnout has decreased and stagnated in that time. ” ”   Here’s how voter turnout in US presidential elections compares   over time: ” ’  ’