’  ’ ’   Mary Petrozzi hoped that Barack Obama would change things in her   community. ’ ”   She’s a florist in Smithfield, a small town in a rural part of   Ohio not far from the Pennsylvania and West Virginia borders.   It’s a place with miles of empty roads and farmland, and it’s a   place that’s been hard hit by shuttered steel plants. ” ’   Eight years and two months ago, then presidential candidate   Barack Obama campaigned in front of hay bales at a family farm in   nearby Dillonvale. It was part of an ambitious strategy to court   rural voters. ’ ’   At the campaign stop, he promised 5 million jobs. He promised   he’’d reopen the steel mills. He promised jobs in ”clean coal” to   replace the dirty power that’’s so critical to this region’’s   economy.  ’ ”   In this   community  —   one that has voted for both   democrats and republicans  —   Obama earned Petrozzi’s vote. He won   Jefferson County, which includes Dillonvale and Smithfield, by   just  votes.  ” ’   But ask Petrozzi how her community is doing, and her answer today   is the same as it would have been then. ”Everything’’s just been   bad,” she said in a phone interview. ”I have not seen anything   get better while [Obama’’s] been in there.” ’ ’   Her frustrations sound like a Trump campaign ad. She had wanted   Obama ”to make our country better and put people to work.” She   had hoped the factories might reopen.  ’ ’  ’ ’   I went to Smithfield in 2008 to  event and talk to locals in   this town of 900 residents. This was in the middle of the   financial crisis and foreclosed homes were a big issue. But even   more on their minds were the fundamental structural changes in   the economy that have left places like this behind. ’ ’   I met Bob Mieczkowski on the street. ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Since Obama’s election, something here has been growing: demand   for assistance from a food bank run by the Smithfield Evangelical   Friends Church. It’s been serving about 10% more people each year   since 2008 up until last year, according to Stanley L. Dombroski,   the director of the Smithfield Friends Food Pantry. He serves   many widows and retired steelworkers.  ” ’  ’ ’   ”Almost all their benefits are completely gone,” he said   Wednesday of the steelworkers whose companies have shut down or   moved away. More than half of the 450 people whom the food bank   serves live on $500 to $800 a month, he estimates.  ’ ”   In 2008, he said, locals were disillusioned with the George W.   Bush years and took a leap of faith on Obama’s promise of hope   and change. Now, it’s Trump’s promises, with few details, that   will be on the line.  ” ’   ”Ohio in general and particularly in these [communities] it is   going to be an absolutely great proving ground for Donald Trump   on bringing jobs back because there are so many in the outlying   areas and this section of this Ohio where the jobs have gone to   foreign countries,” he said in a phone interview.  ’ ’   And that’’s why when I called Kate Sedgmer, the executive director   of the United Way of Jefferson County, she said people in the   region are happy about Trump’’s win. ”People are exceptionally   excited to have someone who’’s maybe more ” she   said.  ’ ’   This county that went for Obama by a hair in 2008, voted for   Trump on Tuesday by a more than   .  ’ ’   Trump’’s campaign was perfectly tailored for a place like   Jefferson County, which Sedgmer describes as ”family first, God   first, hardworking, and ethical.” She said it’’s a mix of   professionals in bigger cities like Steubenville and many     workers in construction and other trades.  ’ ”   It’s religious, socially conservative, and particularly bitter   about globalization and large, faceless companies. While many   businesses here are small and family run, one of the biggest   hopes of the Obama years was that the rise of hydraulic   fracturing in Ohio, and the influx of oil and gas work in   Jefferson County, would improve the area’s fortunes. The lawyer   who owned the farm Obama visited ended up devoting his  practice to   leases. His own farm got a   massive . ” ”   While some have done well, it hasn’t been a  . The oil and   gas companies brought in young workers instead of hiring locals.   And plunging prices for natural gas have put a damper on the   industry. ” ’   ”We’’re going to put Americans back to work,” Obama told the   guests at the Dillonvale farm in 2008. And on a national level he   succeeded. National unemployment is now  to healthy, prerecession levels.  ’ ”   But in Smithfield it doesn’t feel like it.  ” ’   Mary Petrozzi, the florist, has lived there for 42 years and   remembers when there was a drug store, an insurance agent, and as   many as four gas stations in town. This year she voted for   Trump.    ”I feel good about it,” she said the morning after the election.   ”I’’m glad Trump got it. There’’s some hope there with him. And   it’’s a stronger hope I had with Obama.”  ’ ’   The surprising victories across the upper Midwest suggest there   were far more frustrated voters like Petrozzi willing to give   Trump a chance to bring back life the way it was.  ’