Subscribe: iTunes | Google Play Music This week, The New York Times Book Review unveils its 10 Best Books of 2016. One of those books is “War and Turpentine,” by Stefan Hertmans. The editors of the Book Review write: On this week’s podcast, Stefan Hertmans talks about “War and Turpentine” editors at the Book Review talk about the year’s best books Alexandra Alter has news from the publishing world Ian McGuire discusses “The North Water” and Gregory Cowles and John Williams on what people are reading. Pamela Paul is the host. Here are the books mentioned in this week’s “What We’re Reading”: “Scoop” by Evelyn Waugh “The Undoing Project” by Michael Lewis “Today Will Be Different” by Maria Semple We would love to hear your thoughts about this episode, and about the Book Review’s podcast in general. You can send them to books@nytimes. com. From a desktop or laptop  you can listen by pressing play on the button above. Or if you’re on a mobile device, the instructions below will help you find and subscribe to the series. 1. Open your podcast app. It’s a   app called “Podcasts” with a purple icon. 2. Search for the series. Tap on the “search” magnifying glass icon at the bottom of the screen, type in “Inside The New York Times Book Review” and select it from the list of results. 3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, tap on the “subscribe” button to have new episodes sent to your phone free. You may want to adjust your notifications to be alerted when a new episode arrives. 4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before deciding to subscribe, just tap on the episode title from the list on the series page. If you have an internet connection, you’ll be able to stream the episode. On your Android phone or tablet: 1. Open your podcast app. It’s a   app called “Play Music” with an    icon. 2. Search for the series. Click on the magnifying glass icon at the top of the screen, search for the name of the series, and select it from the list of results. You might have to scroll down to find the “Podcasts” search results. 3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, click on the word “subscribe” to have new episodes sent to your phone for free. 4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before deciding to subscribe, just click on the episode title from the list on the series page. If you have an internet connection, you’ll be able to stream the episode.