’  ’ ’   One of the   things you can do today is      Donald Trump might want to put in his cabinet: Newt Gingrich as   Secretary of State, Mike Flynn as Secretary of Defense. ’ ”   I’m panicking about a lot of things, but I’m not panicking about   this. Cabinet appointments are one of the few areas where I   believe Congress is likely to successfully rein Trump in. ” ’   Republicans will hold only 52 seats in the Senate, assuming the   Democratic pickup in New Hampshire holds up in a recount.   Cabinet confirmations require 50 votes (plus that of the   Vice President) so it will only take a handful of holdout   Republicans to block a nominee.  ’ ’   Of course, Republicans in general have shown little willingness   to stand up to Trump when it costs them politically, even before   he has acquired the powers of the presidency. But the Senate has   been a relative bright spot, with many senators having   consistently withheld support and offered withering   criticism  —   just ask Ben Sasse or Mike Lee or Jeff Flake or   Susan Collins or Lindsey Graham or Lisa Murkowski. ’ ’   That is, the requisite handful of Republicans who can form a   check on Trump appointments appears to exist. ’ ’’ ”   Aside from principled opposition to kooky nominees, Republican   senators will also have two   reasons to be   picky about Trump’s cabinet choices. ” ”   Forcing him to appoint a normal cabinet of Republican   insiders would hinder Trump’s efforts to build a faction in   opposition to the mainstream of the Republican party. And   credible threats to block his nominees would give the Senate more   power in policy negotiations with Trump. ” ’   Trump will viciously attack Republicans who oppose his nominees.   But senators have more room to be independent than congressmen   do. They have independent political profiles and they stand for   election only every six years. Those who have just been     may expect Trump no longer to be president next time   they have to face voters. ’ ’   My guess is the end result of this dynamic is Trump will appoint   a much more ordinary Republican cabinet than people are   expecting, and that Newt, fundamentally, will not be Secretary of   State. ’ ’   Of course, Trump could put a bunch of worrisome weirdos in   positions that do not require Senate confirmation, such as   national security adviser. ’