’  ’ ’   Sen. Elizabeth Warren extended an olive branch to     Donald Trump on Thursday, offering to work with him on     issues where the   mogul rejected   traditional Republican Party orthodoxy. ’ ’   ”When his goal is to increase the economic security of     families, then count me in,” Warren said in a speech   to the   on Thursday. ’ ’   She added: ”I will push aside our differences, and I will work   with him to achieve that goal. I offer to work as hard as I can   and to pull in as many people as I can into this effort. If Trump   is ready to go on rebuilding American economic security for   millions of families, then I am ready.” ’ ’   Warren empathized with many Trump supporters, arguing that   millions of voters backed Trump ”despite the hate” often on   display at campaign rallies, saying that they ”voted for him out   of frustration and anger  —   and out of hope that he would make   real change in this country.” ’ ’   In her remarks on Thursday, Warren also said Trump does not have   the   mandate House Speaker Paul Ryan and Sen.   Majority Leader Mitch McConnell want to push through Congress. ’ ’   Warren, the populist liberal firebrand, said the Republican Party   establishment was ”rejected by their own primary voters, rejected   during the campaign, and rejected in Tuesday’’s election.” She   said Trump won because working families were simply ”disgusted by   a Washington that works for the rich and powerful and leaves   everyone else behind.” ’ ’   Warren also said Trump wooed voters by addressing their fears   about economic anxiety, including the high cost of college   tuition, the advantages large corporations have in crafting trade   deals, and the influence of lobbying in Washington. ’ ’   ”  Trump spoke to these issues,” Warren said.   ”Republican elites hated him for it. But he didn’’t care.” ’ ’   She added: ’ ’   Throughout the presidential campaign, Trump occasionally broke   with hardline fiscal Republican orthodoxy on issues like   international trade and Social Security reform, though in the   past he called the program a ”.” ’ ’  ’ ”   The Massachusetts senator wasn’t the first Democrat to offer to   work with Trump on issues. ” ’   Sen. Bernie Sanders, whom Trump often praised for his more   skeptical views on international trade deals, released a   statement on Wednesday pledging to work with the     on improving   financial stability. ’ ’   Despite her pledge to work with Trump, Warren was still highly   critical of Trump on certain areas. She also promised to hold the     accountable for his   inflammatory   rhetoric, which was often aimed at the Massachusetts senator   herself. ’ ’   Warren said the ”ugly” campaign was Trump’’s responsibility,   slamming his ”toxic stew of hatred and fear” and ”statements that   undermined core values of our democracy,” including Trump’’s   pledge to deport millions of immigrants living in the US   illegally and plan to bar all Muslims from the US. ’ ’   ”Now Latino and   children are worried about what   will happen to their families. LGBT couples are worried that   their marriages could be dissolved by a   Supreme   Court. Women are worried that access to desperately needed   medical services will disappear,” Warren said. ”Millions of   people in this country are worried. And they are right to be   worried.” ’ ’   The populist senator pledged to oppose Trump if he deregulates   the financial sector and follows through on campaign promises to   repeal Obamacare and deport immigrants. ’ ’   ”We will stand up to bigotry. No compromises ever on this one.   Bigotry in all its forms,” Warren said. ”We will fight back   against attacks on Latinos, on   on women, on   Muslims, on immigrants, on disabled Americans  —   on everyone.   Whether Donald Trump sits in a glass tower or sits in the White   House, we will not give an inch on this, not now, not ever.” ’ ’ ’