’  ’ ’   Dr. Peter Mansoor, the   man to Gen. David Petraeus   during the Iraq War, says he would never serve in the Trump   administration under any circumstances. ’ ’   Mansoor, a former Army colonel who now teaches military history   at Ohio State University, told Business Insider in a phone   interview that while he is willing to give the     the benefit of the doubt initially, he remains firm in his stance   as a   . ’ ’   “I was ’’Never Trump’’ before and the election has not changed that   stance,” said Mansoor, the former executive officer and top   advisor for Petraeus during the Iraq ’’Surge. ’’ ”He has said too   many things that eat away at my ethical and moral foundation that   would enable me to serve under him.” ’ ”   To be clear, Mansoor hasn’t been asked to serve in the Trump   White House. But it’s an interesting admission to outright reject   any such offer, since the next president will surely be calling   on people to serve in top positions within his cabinet and   the Pentagon  —   which would certainly be bolstered by   Mansoor’s expertise, having served as an Army officer for 26   years. ” ’   Interestingly,  who like Mansoor and   more than 100 national security experts signed an open letter   opposing Trump in March, said he would consider such an offer,   rationalizing it as serving the office of the President, rather   than the man. ’ ’   ”I would very seriously consider a request to serve in the Trump   administration,” Michael Auslin, director of Japan Studies   at the American Enterprise Institute and author of the   forthcoming book ”,” told Business   Insider, because ”at some point politics ends and policy   begins. It’s up to Trump himself to make that transition   from politics to policy.” ’ ’   Mansoor does not hold that same view. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”That’s [Auslin’’s] prerogative to do it for what he   perceives to be the good of the country,” Mansoor said.   ”But I think for the good of the country, we should hold   candidates accountable for the language they use on the campaign   trail and [Donald Trump’’s] went beyond the pale. ” ’ ’   Now that Trump has secured victory, reports have suggested he   could tap  to prominent positions within the Pentagon. And   The Daily Beast  could have   trouble filling spots in the national security bureaucracy,   citing similar concerns voiced by Never Trump Republicans. ’ ’   But Mansoor, despite his reluctance to serve, believes that in   the end there will be little problem finding willing candidates. ’ ’   ”I think they’ll be able to find people. You might debate their   qualifications and we’ll judge their performance once they’re in   place. But the idea that he can’t staff his administration,   that’s an unfounded concern,” he said. ”The concern is over the   quality of people that they will get.” ’ ”   He also added that   —   around 150   Republican national security experts and officials  —   probably   wouldn’t get an invitation anyway. ” ’   “I think anyone who signed that letter shouldn’t be under any   illusions that they’re gonna be offered anything in a Trump   administration,” Mansoor said. ’