’  ’ ’   For many Americans,   Donald Trump  in how politics was done. ’ ’   For advocates of universal basic income, a form of income   distribution that seeks to end poverty by paying everyone a   standard salary just for being alive, it might just be the   radical change America needs. ’ ”   Basic income’s biggest selling point  —   at least in theory  —   is   that it could directly lift people out of poverty. ” ”   Since people would no longer struggle to cover basic expenses   like food, clothes, and home repairs, they’d have more money to   stay active members of society, whether they worked or not. ” ’   Now that Trump is   advocates wonder what kind of   administration Trump will run: Will he kill any momentum basic   income proponents helped build over the last couple years,   or will he embrace huge, sweeping reform? ’ ’’ ’   ”People feel uncertain and anxious about the future,” Jim Pugh,   CEO of Share Progress and   of the  tells Business Insider. He adds that if Trump plays   his cards right, he could actually use that uncertainty to his   advantage by embracing basic income, saying that people are   ”hungry for big solutions right now.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Not all advocates left as much room for optimism. ’ ’   ”The election of Trump as president is probably no good news for   the basic income movement,” Rutger Bregman, Dutch basic income   expert and author of  tells Business Insider. ’ ”   And with  by robotic automation   in the coming decades, Bregman could be right. As  Trump doesn’t seem too concerned   about the lack of manufacturing jobs in the future. That lack of   clarity has experts like Bregman worried. The     seems unwilling to acknowledge that humans could get booted from   entire industries in a matter of decades. ” ”   That’s precisely why Trump has every incentive to cozy up to   basic income, Pugh says. His fan base has serious fears about the   future of the economy. ” ’   ”Enacting basic income would help to revitalize parts of the   country hit hardest by outsourcing and automation by spurring   entrepreneurship in those areas.” Or as writer and basic income   advocate Scott Santens put it, ”Basic income is good for   business.” ’ ”   And unlike Clinton, who refused to endorse basic income because   she viewed it as giving up on people, Santens says Trump might   actually have it in him to take more drastic measures. He’s   already proposed  between the US and Mexico and . ” ’  ’ ’   ”Trump likes to think big,” Santens tells Business Insider. And   even by its initials, he says, a basic income guarantee is a   ”BIG” idea. ”S ’ ’  ’ ’  ’