’  ’ ’   Mary Jo White, the chair of the Securities and Exchange   Commission, announced Monday that she will step down at the end   of the Obama administration. ’ ”   Her departure from the SEC had been expected in the wake of   Donald Trump’s surprise presidential election victory. ” ”   Paul Atkins, a former SEC commissioner and an outspoken critic of   the regulatory response to the financial crisis, is on Trump’s   transition team. And  ” ’ in expectation of   deregulation.  ’ ’  ’ ’’ ’      ’ ’ Washington D. C. Nov. 14, 2016  —   ’ ’ SEC Chair Mary Jo White, after nearly four years as the   agency’s head, today announced that she intends to leave at the   end of the Obama Administration.  Under Chair White’s   leadership, the Commission strengthened protections for investors   and the markets through transformative rulemakings that addressed   major issues highlighted by the financial crisis.  The   Commission also instituted a new approach to enforcement that has   resulted in greater accountability and record actions through,   among other things, the use of admissions of wrongdoing and   enhanced data analytics and technology. ’ ’ Chair White, who became the 31st Chair of the SEC in April   2013, will be one of the SEC’s longest serving Chairs. ’ ’ “It has been a tremendous honor to work alongside the   incredibly talented and dedicated SEC staff members who do so   much every day to protect investors and our markets,” said Chair   White.  “I am very proud of our three consecutive years of   record enforcement actions, dozens of fundamental reforms through   our rulemakings that have strengthened investor protections and   market stability, and that the job satisfaction of our phenomenal   staff has climbed in each of the last three years.  I also   want to express my appreciation for the engagement and dedication   of my fellow Commissioners and my financial regulator colleagues,   past and present. ” ’ ’ In addition to completing the vast majority of the agency’s   mandates under the   Act and all of its mandates under   the JOBS Act, Chair White’s leadership has advanced the agency’s   mission through other critical rulemakings and built robust and   effective frameworks for the SEC’s regulatory regimes going   forward. ’ ’ “My duty has been to ensure that the Commission implemented   strong investor and market protections, and to establish an   enduring foundation for future progress in the most critical   areas   asset management regulation, equity market structure and   disclosure effectiveness,” said Chair White.  “Thanks to the   hard work and dedication of the SEC’s staff, we have accomplished   both. ” ’ ’ Chair White drove many important rules and other policy   measures to completion.  Under her leadership, the   Commission advanced more than 50 significant rulemaking   initiatives, including:  ’ ’ To enhance accountability of those who violate the securities   laws, Chair White implemented the Commission’s   policy   to require admissions of wrongdoing in certain cases where   heightened accountability and acceptance of responsibility is   appropriate.  Thus far, the Commission has required   admissions from more than 70 defendants, including 44 entities   and 29 individuals. ’ ’ During Chair White’s tenure, the Commission brought more than   2, 850 enforcement actions, more than any other   period   in the Commission’s history, and obtained judgments and orders   totaling more than $13. 4 billion in monetary sanctions.  The   Commission charged over 3, 300 companies and over 2, 700   individuals, including CEOs, CFOs, and other senior corporate   officers. ’ ’ The record number of enforcement actions over the last three   fiscal years against companies and senior executives involved   many “first of their kind” cases in asset management, market   structure and public finance.  Other major cases involved   insider and abusive trading, violations of   rules   and misconduct in accounting and financial reporting.  In   the last year alone, the Commission brought a record 868   enforcement actions.  And for the first time, the Commission   devoted significant resources and emphasis on using cutting edge   data analytics to uncover and investigate misconduct resulting in   numerous enforcement actions involving insider trading, asset   management and complex financial instruments.  ’ ’ As a result of the successful whistleblower program, the   Commission has awarded more than $100 million, since inception  —     virtually all during Chair White’s tenure  —   to whistleblowers who   provided key original information that led to successful   enforcement actions. ’ ’ Under Chair White’s leadership, the Commission made   significant enhancements to its examination program, including   increasing staff by about 20 percent by hiring new examiners   where funding permitted and redeploying staff from other program   areas to heighten focus on the   investment management   industry. ’ ’ The exam program also increased its use of advanced   quantitative techniques to enable examiners to detect misconduct   by more quickly analyzing large amounts of data.  Over the   past year, the examination program conducted more than 2, 400   formal examinations of registrants, an increase over each of the   prior seven fiscal years.  The Commission also enhanced   technology in its examination program through the National Exam   Analytics Tool (NEAT) which enables examiners to analyze large   volumes of trading data much more efficiently. ’ ’ Chair White serves as a member of the Financial Stability   Oversight Council and on several other domestic and international   organizations, including the International Organization of   Securities Commissions, the Financial Stability Board, the   International Financial Reporting Standards Foundation Monitoring   Board, the Financial and Banking Information Infrastructure   Committee, and the Federal Housing Finance Oversight Board. ’ ’ Chair White added, “It has been and will always be critical   for this agency and the public that the SEC remain truly   independent.  That independence is crucial to our ability to   protect investors, safeguard our markets and facilitate the   capital formation that fosters innovation and the growth that is   essential to our national economy. ” ’ ’ Prior to her arrival at the Commission, Chair White spent   decades as a federal prosecutor and securities lawyer.  As   the U. S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York from 1993   to 2002, she prosecuted cases involving complex securities and   financial institution frauds, other white collar crime and   international terrorists.  She also served as an Assistant   U. S. Attorney and was Chief Appellate Attorney of that office’s   Criminal Division.  She served as Acting U. S. Attorney for   the Eastern District of New York as well as the First Assistant   U. S. Attorney.  In private practice, she was a litigation   partner and chair of the litigation department of Debevoise &   Plimpton LLP, overseeing more than 200 lawyers.  Chair White   is also a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and the   American College of Trial Lawyers. ’