’  ’ ’   President Barack Obama on Monday laid out why the repeal of   the Affordable Care Act, better known as Obamacare, will be   difficult for the incoming Republican leadership and the   administration of   Donald Trump. ’ ’   ”The holy grail for Republicans over the last six or seven years   was to kill Obamacare,” Obama said during a press conference at   the White House. ’ ”   Trump, House Speaker Paul Ryan, and Senate Majority Leader Mitch   McConnell  of the law since Trump’s stunning   electoral victory last week. ” ”   Obama said, however, that it will be a rough road for   Republicans if they simply try to repeal the law, given some of   its more popular benefits  —   the end of lifetime limits,   prescription drug discounts for seniors, free mammograms, and the   fact that more than 20 million now have coverage through   some of the law’s provisions, among others. ” ’   ”Now it’’s one thing to characterize this thing as not working   when it’’s an abstraction,” said Obama. ”Now, suddenly, you’’re in   charge and you’’re going to repeal it  —   OK, well, what happens to   those 20 million people who have health insurance? Are you   just going to kick them off and suddenly, they don’’t have health   insurance?” ’ ”   Obama said he would be  that ensures many of   the benefits  —   such as children having the ability to stay on   their parents’ insurance until age 26 and insurers not being able   to deny coverage due to a preexisting condition  —   do not   disappear. ” ’   ”My view on these issues is that if they can come up with   something better that actually works and in a year or two after   they’’ve replaced the Affordable Care Act with their own plan,   and 25 million people have health insurance, and it’’s   cheaper and better and running smoothly, I’’ll be the first one to   say that’’s great. Congratulations,” Obama said. ’ ’   Obama did say that if their plan leads to million of people   losing coverage and other issues, he and the American people will   not be happy. ’ ’   ”We’’re going to have a problem,” Obama said. ”I don’’t think   that’’s unique to me, I think the American people will feel that   way.” ’ ’   Obamacare has come under fire from Republicans mostly due to its   public exchanges, which have seen  and  ’ ”   Currently, Trump’s healthcare plan on his transition website    to ensure that those 20 million   people are still covered.  he may keep two of the law’s most   popular provisions after speaking with Obama. ” ’   These parts of the law, however, can not be easily repealed,   given Republicans do not have a   majority in the   Senate and can only repeal parts of the law that have to do with   the federal budget through a   process.    last week   that these do not include the preexisting condition and      provisions. ’ ’   Said Obama: ”On a lot of issues, now comes the hard part, now   comes the governance.” ’ ’ ’