’  ’ ’   The sportswear melee has only just begun. ’ ”   Nike’s spot at the top of the sportswear pyramid seems more   perilous that ever before, with a weak indicators of future   sales including less orders from retails and piling up inventory   in their latest quarterly report ” ’   Adidas and Under Armour are making significant gains on Nike,   each launching new products and new categories to carve their own   pieces of the growing sportswear pie. ’ ”   Meanwhile, Nike’s market share in both shoes and apparel . ” ”   Which of the brands has the best chance of challenging Nike’s   dominance? Let’s take a look at the top two competitors. ” ’  ’ ’   Under Armour has been a hot company with growth in the past two   years in the 30% range year over year. In the most recent   earnings call, the company beat profit expectations, but   warned the pace of growth will slow through 2017 and 2o18   when considering the explosive growth the company experienced   since 2009. ’ ”   That considered, the company is a huge presence on the   market and is on track to be a sportswear giant in its own right.   Though its its 2015 worldwide net revenue was a mere $3. 96   billion compared to Adidas’ $18 billion (and both trailing Nike’s   gigantic $30 billion) its business is  where its simple and technological approach   to sportswear has resonated with consumers. It’s 2016 net revenue   is still projected to be nearly $5 billion ” ”   Originally not a footwear powerhouse, its new basketball shoe   line has gained some notoriety, while being attached to one of   the youngest and most   players of the sport, Steph   Curry. As a result, net revenue from footwear grew 58%      as reported in the company’s latest earnings   report. ” ”   Under Armour, which usually sells its products under Nike’s, has   also made an effort to move its products upmarket with a new     sportswear line designed with Tim Coppens. ” ’  ’ ’   Last week, Adidas passed Under Armour to retake the spot of the    in the US. This is a huge   milestone for the company, which was  in the   country after previously losing touch with American tastes,   losing sponsorship deals to Nike, and failing to make much   of its $3. 8 billion acquisition of Reebok in 2005. ’ ”   Losing market share was a   call for the German giant,   as it is further entrenched than its American competitor, has   been around for a lot longer than UA’s young 20 years of life,   and has nearly quadruple its revenue worldwide. ” ’   Adidas has been looking to turn that around in recent years with   a refocusing on the American market started by Adidas   President of North America Mark King started in 2014, and    to take on Nike by its new CEO, Kasper   Rorsted.  ’ ”   Adidas has opened a new design lab in Nike’s hometown of   Portland, Oregon, launched new   models that gets   sneakerheads talking like the UltraBoost with celebrity   spokespeople, and repositioned heritage models as fashion   icons  —   the most famous and successful being the Stan Smith. ” ”   It also signed high profile partnerships like Kanye   West’s Yeezy line, and have been aggressive in pursuing   endorsement deals for other teams. For apparel, Adidas has   refreshed its offerings and leaned into athleisure with an   upmarket line . ” ’   US sales were up 26% for Adidas according to the second   quarter earnings report, with no signs of slowing down soon. ’ ’   Nike still has a lot of room to run before either Adidas or Under   Armour get anywhere close to catching it. The company has an   ambitious plan to reach $50 billion in worldwide revenue by 2020,   powered largely by a rapidly expanding direct to consumer   business. To achieve this, it will expand its store base in new   ways, focused on attentiveness to making the customer experience   more personal, buoyed by a more robust digital pr essence in the   form of its personalized digital platform, Nike+. ’ ’   However, if any company is shrink that gap by a meaningful   amount, it would be the aggressive Adidas with its triple   threat of diversity of     product,   endorsements, and   celebrity hype. Adidas is on track to continue its growth streak   in the US market. Under Armour will expand sales and marginally   market share, while still being meaningful threat to both of   the bigger companies. ’ ”   But if we’re talking about who has a bigger shot at taking more   market share from the Oregonian giant, Adidas has all the   momentum right now. ”