’  ’ ”     Donald Trump’s presence in New York City is   having a crippling effect on some of the biggest retail stores in   the country. ” ’   Since the election, the area surrounding Trump Tower on 5th   Avenue and East 56th Street, where Trump maintains a residence,   has become overrun with security personnel and protestors. ’ ’   At times, entire sections of 5th Avenue  —   the most prominent   shopping corridor in the country  —   have been shut down to keep   the   safe. ’ ’   This poses a huge problem for retailers like Tiffany & Co.   Abercrombie & Fitch, Hollister, Henri Bendel, and Polo Ralph   Lauren, which have some of their most highly trafficked stores in   the world within close proximity to the Trump Tower. ’ ’   Retailers depend heavily on sales at their flagship 5th Avenue   stores, which draw vast amounts of shoppers and tourists each   year. ’ ’  ’ ’   Now the   street closures and congestion could weigh   down on traffic at those stores for at least the next four years,   according to RBC Capital Markets analyst Brian Tunick. ’ ’   ”With consistent protests outside our  ’s   residence, traffic, security, and congestion near Fifth Avenue   and 56th Street has reached a fever pitch,” Tunick wrote in a   recent note to clients. ”We’d highlight subsequent traffic risk   at the nearby Tiffany & Co. New York flagship (~25% of 4Q   sales) as well as Abercrombie & Fitch and Hollister   flagships. To the extent that the   opts to split   his time between New York and Washington, DC during the next four   years, this could pose an ongoing traffic disruption.” ’ ’  ’ ”   Trump’s advisors have said that the  and his other residences on the   weekend, including Trump Tower. ” ”   A Tiffany & Co. store employee told Business Insider over the   phone on Wednesday that the store’s main entrance on 5th Avenue   has been closed since the election as a result of security and   protests, and customers must now enter through the 57th street   entrance. She said she doesn’t know when or if the 5th Avenue   entrance will reopen. ” ”   Tiffany’s corporate office confirmed the entrance closure. ” ’  ’ ’   ”Tiffany is in frequent communication with the New York Police   Department and US Secret Service regarding safety and security   along the perimeter of our Fifth Avenue flagship,” the company   said. ”We remain open for business with regular hours and welcome   customers to enter the store via our 57th Street entrance while   any barricades along Fifth Avenue are in place.” ’ ’   The company declined to comment on the impact to sales and   traffic at the store. Abercrombie & Fitch declined to   comment. ’