’  ’ ’   Retired Marine Gen. James Mattis is in the running to lead   the Pentagon for   Donald Trump, according to   reports. ’ ”   Trump’s transition team announced on Friday that Mattis would be   meeting with the   on Saturday. A person involved   with the transition told Bloomberg that Mattis was being   considered, along with retired Army Gen. Jack Keane,  with Trump on Thursday. ” ’   Mattis declined to comment when reached by Business Insider. ’ ’   The former   general retired in 2013 after leading   Marines for 44 years. His last post was with US Central   Command, the Tampa,   unified command   tasked with operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, as well   as more than   other countries. ’ ”   Mattis, 66, is something of a legendary figure in the US   military. Looked at as a warrior among Marines and     by members of other services, he’s been at the forefront of a   number of engagements.  ” ’   He led his battalion of Marines in the assault during the first   Gulf war in 1991 and commanded the task force charging into   Afghanistan in 2001. In 2003, as a Major General, he once again   took up the task of motivating his young Marines to go into   battle,  to his troops before they crossed   the border into Iraq. ’ ’  ’ ’   Though he’’s beloved by troops for his straight talk and strategic   genius, he’’s dealt with some controversy outside of the   military for some of his more colorful quotes. He asserted in   2005, for example, that it was ”fun to shoot some people”  —     though he was talking about fundamentalists who ”slap women   around” in Afghanistan for not wearing veils. Still, the   Marine commandant at the time said he was counseled and told to   ”choose his words more carefully,”  to Fox News. ’ ’   If he were tapped to be defense secretary, Mattis would need   a waiver from Congress to take the position, since it requires a   military officer to have been off active duty for at least seven   years. Mattis retired in 2013. ’ ”   Whoever is ultimately picked, the next head of the   Pentagon will oversee face myriad challenges, from the ongoing fight   against ISIS and China’s moves in the South China Sea to the   ongoing stress on the military imposed by sequestration. ” ’   A number of defense secretaries who served under President Barack   Obama have criticized him for his supposed ”.” Even Mattis himself   was reportedly forced into early retirement by the Obama   administration due to his hawkish views on Iran,  to Tom Ricks at Foreign Policy. ’ ’   To some of his supporters, Trump appears to be more of a   delegator who will let the Pentagon chief take the reins of the   military. ’ ’   ”He will empower his SecDef to lead the way,” Joe Kasper, chief   of staff for Rep. Duncan Hunter ( .) told Business   Insider. ’ ’   The next defense secretary may also end up dealing with a     North Korea, and Russia is very likely to test   limits in eastern Europe. The secretary will also need to   reinvigorate a  by low morale. ’ ’   Mattis currently splits his time between  as a distinguished fellow, conducting   research and giving lectures on leadership and strategy. ’ ’   Other names  for the position include former   Sen. Jim Talent of Missouri and Stephen Hadley, the former   national security adviser to President George W. Bush. ’ ’   A spokesperson for Trump did not immediately respond to a request   for comment from Business Insider. ’