’   The chaotic swarm of press, security, aides, and more that   traditionally trails a   has settled in   midtown Manhattan. This time, with more protesters than usual,   and amid one of the busiest areas of real estate in the country. ’ ’   Walking down 5th Avenue between 56th and 57th Streets, hurried   New Yorkers curse at the tourists who have stopped in the middle   of the cramped pathway to take photos of Trump Tower, where     Donald Trump has holed himself up since   winning a stunning   victory. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”They’’re moving slower than EVER!” one angry resident, who said   he works nearby, yells at no one in particular. ’ ’  ’ ’   A few protesters hold signs and are largely ignored by the   police, who shout at the passersby to keep moving and stay   outside of the barricades that have been erected to create a   makeshift press pen on Fifth Avenue. ’ ’  ’ ”   Crossing to the east side of the street, police have set up a   check point and search people’s bags before they can walk in   front of Trump Tower. ” ’  ’ ’   ”Where are you going?” they ask. ’ ”   Most people say they’re just going to Starbucks. There’s   only one that they’d be going to  —   the one inside Trump Tower  —     and there are several others on Fifth Avenue, so the   officers know they’re not just looking for coffee. Maybe they   just want to get a look inside. The officers they don’t seem   to mind. ” ’   ”Man, why does everyone have to go to that Starbucks?”   one officer jokes. ’ ’  ’ ’   Heavily armed officers seem fairly at ease as they stand at the   entrance of Trump Tower. Some take selfies with excited tourists   who ask if they can go inside. ’ ’   ”We only guard the outside  —   go on in,” one says. ’ ’  ’ ’   Once inside, visitors are greeted by another security checkpoint   where their bags are scanned before they can move on to the main   event  —   the lobby elevators. ’ ”   Unlike past   Trump hasn’t set up a protective   press pool that accompanies him on outings and receives regular   readouts of his meetings. So reporters are relegated to a spot   behind a red velvet rope in the Trump Tower lobby. They stake out   the entrance and the elevators as members of Trump’s team come   and go, hoping that one of them will comment on his transition   team’s    and . ” ’  ’ ’   ”I’’ve been here for about 12 hours a day, every day since he was   elected,” one Fox News reporter told Business Insider. ”Sometimes   you get lucky and you see someone relevant  —   like, ’’Oh hey,   that’’s [South Carolina Gov.] Nikki Haley. ’’ Or, ’’Oh look, there’’s   Sean Spicer or Kellyanne Conway. ’’” ’ ’  ’ ”   Conway, Trump’s campaign manager, received a rockstar   reception when she reentered the tower on Thursday   afternoon. ” ’   ”Oh my god, there’’s Kellyanne Conway!” one woman, wearing a     2016   shouted at her husband before jumping   out of the wheelchair she’’d been sitting in. She wanted to get a   closer look. ’ ’   ”Oh, she’’s so tiny,” she said, holding out her phone. ”Quick,   take a picture!”  ’ ’  ’ ”   The couple, who took a bus from Redding, Pennsylvania, to New   York City on Wednesday, said they booked their tickets to   Washington for Trump’s inauguration almost as soon as he   announced his candidacy last year. ” ’   ”We just knew he was going to win,” said the woman, who didn’’t   want to give her or her husband’’s names. ”We’’re coming back here   tomorrow and hopefully we’’ll see him.”  ’ ’   Conway, meanwhile, took photos with everyone who approached   her, asking their names and promising to remember. ’ ’   ”What did you say your name was, again?” she asked one woman.   ”Oh, I’’ll definitely remember that.” ’ ’   A reporter in the press pen said Conway had become ”much more   relaxed” over the past eight days. ’ ’   ”She used to just come down in the elevator and scurry out of   here in a hurry,” the reporter said. ”Now she stops and takes   questions, takes photos.” ’ ’  ’ ’   At one point, a young tourist approached a reporter and asked,   ”Are you all here because you’’re waiting for Trump?” ’ ’   The reported nodded, looking exhausted. ’ ’   ”Do you know if he’’s coming down soon?” she asked. ’ ’   He shook his head. No one knows. ’ ’   The only time Trump had emerged from Trump Tower since   winning the election was on Tuesday night, when he  to eat dinner at  with his   family a few blocks away. On Friday, he did so again  —   this time,   a planned excursion to a golf club in New Jersey. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   On Thursday, most reporters were waiting for Japanese Prime   Minister Shinzo Abe to enter Trump Tower for his     meeting with the  . A little after 5   p. m. reporters were told Abe had come in another entrance,   avoiding the lobby and the press altogether. ’