’  ’ ”   Aaron Rodgers and the Green Bay Packers’ struggles have been one   of most perplexing stories in the NFL this season. ” ’   At   losers of three straight, the Packers are in serious   danger of missing the playoffs for the first time since 2008. ’ ”   At the center of the Packers’ struggles, fair or not, is Rodgers,   who has not looked like the best quarterback in the NFL  —   his   usual standard. While some wonder whether this is a result   of the Packers’ practically nonexistent run game or a cast of   mediocre receivers, those close to Rodgers wonder if     issues are plaguing him. ” ’   In a  a source close to   Rodgers alleges that Rodgers hasn’’t spoken to his family in   two years. It’’s an issue that came to the surface during the most   recent season of ”The Bachelorette,” during which Aaron’’s brother   Jordan, a contestant on the show, revealed that Aaron is not   particularly close to the rest of the family. ’ ”   The relationship is reportedly so strained that Aaron doesn’t   accept Christmas presents from his family or give them tickets to   games. From Dunne: ” ’’ ”   The same source told Dunne that he believes Rodgers is trying to   suppress the issue and it’s beginning to affect him on the field. ” ’   Rodgers has never publicly commented on the situation with his   family. ’ ”   It’s worth noting that Rodgers is struggling relative to the bar   he’s set for himself. This season, Rodgers is completing 63% of   his passes and has thrown 22 touchdowns, seven interceptions, and   an average of 267 yards per game. However, he’s also on pace   to throw his most interceptions since 2010, his passer rating is   down, and during some losses, his lofty numbers have felt hollow. ” ”   Packers players acknowledge that, despite deficiencies on the   roster, Rodgers has to be the person to lead the Packers out of   their slump. While it’s unclear what, exactly, is bothering   Rodgers and the team, the alleged personal strife in his life   might not be helping matters. ”