’  ’ ’   Black Friday has certainly lost some of its luster. This year it   may even  as the biggest shopping day of the year.  ’ ’   But one type of retailer is predicted to thrive this   Thanksgiving week: dollar stores.  ’ ’   According to data from location tracking company Foursquare,   discount stores, such as dollar stores, are gaining in foot   traffic this year as Black Friday approaches. While most   retailers are expecting Foursquare predicts that the   number of visits to dollar stores this year will exceed the last   two years.  ’ ”   Typically, discount stores don’t experience the Black   Friday boost that retailers like Macy’s and Walmart   rely on to increase sales, according to Foursquare. Dollar   stores and other similarly     retailers usually gain momentum later in the holiday   season. ” ’  ’ ’   But this year, dollar stores are predicted to pull off a Black   Friday win for two reasons. ’ ’   First, this year customers are less interested in traditional   Black Friday sales. Second, more and more Americans are   interested in   retailers   a phenomenon   that has helped fuel the growth of dollar stores across the   county.  ’ ”   Foursquare data predicts that overall Black Friday Foot traffic   will be down about 3. 5% compared to last year  —   a decrease, but   one that isn’t as severe as the    drop from 2014 to   2015. ” ’   Last year, Black Friday sales fell 12% to $10. 2 billion compared   to a year before,  Looking at the entire     weekend,    retail sales fell by 10. 4% to  ’ ”   Black Friday’s decline doesn’t mean that people don’t care about   deals. They do. In fact, discount shoppers account for     of all customers,  by the industry research firm NPD   Group. But shoppers have become accustomed to finding deals all   year long, not just on Black Friday.  ” ’  ’ ”   That has led to a growing appreciation for dollar stores and   other   retail chains. While department stores like   Macy’s, Nordstrom, and Kohl’s have struggled to convince shoppers   to buy items at full price, dollar stores are attracting shoppers   with their consistently   prices.  ” ’   ”The last 10 years have seen dramatic growth within value   retail, including the rapid growth in dollar stores and also the   arrival and expansion of limited   discount   retailers,” Jordan Rost, the vice president of consumer insights   at Nielsen, told Business Insider. ”These stores are eating into   the share of wallet for traditional, mainstream supermarkets and   mass merchandisers, leading to contractions in that channel.” ’ ’   The number of dollar stores in the US has grown by 45% in   the last 10 years, reaching 28, 048 locations in 2016, according   to Nielsen data.  ’ ”   Dollar stores aren’t just popular among   bargain   shoppers. Affluent millennials are  more and more. The   number of heads of households under 35 who earn more than   $100, 000 a year and shop at dollar stores rose 7. 1%   from 2012 to 2015.  ” ’   The scope of what people are shopping for at dollar stores is   also growing. From July 2015 to 2016, the number of customers who   purchased meat or poultry from a dollar store in the previous   three months more than doubled,  ’ ’     ’