’  ’ ’   On Tuesday,  designed to compete with   carriers for   budget conscious travelers. ’ ’   As part of the new fare class, United announced that passengers   who hold these discount tickets are  outside of a purse or computer bag. ’ ’   In addition, Basic Economy passengers cannot   seating   and must be the last to board each flight. ’ ’   The reaction to this part of the news from the public was fast,   furious, and overwhelmingly negative. ’ ”   Unfortunately, this shouldn’t have been the case. That’s because,   for the right price, United’s Basic Economy can be a solid   product that provides a valuable service for many of its   customers. ” ’   And here lies a great example of the fundamental disconnect   between airlines and their customers. ’ ”   From United’s perspective, Basic Economy, at it’s heart, is a   product that’s supposed to give passengers, who would otherwise   be relegated to flying on a   carrier, access to United’s   mainline experience by offering lower fares in exchange for fewer     frills. ” ’  ’ ’   ”Customers have told us that they want more choice and Basic   Economy delivers just that,” United Airlines CCO Julia Haywood   said in a statement on Tuesday. ”By offering low fares while also   offering the experience of traveling on our outstanding network,   with a variety of onboard amenities and great customer service,   we are giving our customers an additional travel option from what   United offers today.” ’ ”   But that’s not how the public saw the announcement. ” ”   Instead of viewing Basic Economy as a new budget friendly ticket   option, many saw the announcement as another example of America’s   airlines nickel and   its passengers to the extreme  —     taking away amenities   pro forma in economy class   travel. ” ”   Adding fuel to the fire, the media keyed in on everything   United’s new fare class lacked  —   no   luggage, no     of seats, no ability to upgrade to a higher class.   (.) ” ’   This led to a slew of  and   plastered with words such as   ”misery” and ”contemptible”. ’ ”   Much of the anger at United’s announcement is actually rooted in   the fact that the announcement was made by United. ” ”   (Delta’s   Basic Economy class is already up and   running, while American’s   fare option is set to launch   next year.) ” ”   United, American, and Delta are America’s three remaining legacy   carriers. They are the last surviving remnants of our nation’s   Golden Era of commercial air travel. Many of these airlines’   passengers have been flying with them for decades. Over time,   customers have become accustomed to a certain level of   complimentary service and amenities. ” ’  ’ ’   Budget carriers such as  and  both charge for   bags,   earlier seats assignment and offer significantly less room for   passengers. Yet, both airlines are experiencing strong growth and   relatively little customer outrage. ’ ”   That’s because there’s a fundamental difference in consumer   expectation between a mainline legacy carrier experience and that   of a   airline. ” ’   Here, United failed to temper those expectations. ’ ’   The airline made the Basic Economy announcement on Tuesday   through a press release titled ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   The benefits Basic Economy can bring to the table for budget   minded customers should have been the focus. That didn’t happen.   There should have been a letter to the airline’s customers from   the chief executive explaining the thinking behind the new   service. That also didn’t happen. ” ”   Instead, there was an   type press release that   felt cold and indirect. It failed to answer the questions   United’s customer’s had and sooth the anxiety they feel. ” ”   United is perfectly capable of doing much better. Earlier this   year, the airline’s Polaris premium cabin rollout was   spectacularly successful. ” ”   At the end of the day, United’s Basic Economy exists and will   serve a segment of the airline’s clientele well. Unfortunately,   at the onset, at least, the disconnect in terms of reality versus   perception between airline and customer has overshadowed   everything. ”