’  ’ ’   Steve Eisman, an investor who made a fortune by successfully   predicting the   financial crash, is back with a worrying   new target: European banks. ’ ’   ”Europe is screwed. You guys are still screwed,” . ’ ’   His concern is that European banks  —   particularly Italy’’s  —   hold   bad ”  loans” that are improperly valued, posing a   very serious risk to the banks’’ solvency. ’ ’   ”In the Italian system, the banks say they are worth   cents   in the dollar. But the bid price is 20 cents. If they were to   mark them down, they would be insolvent.” ’ ”   In short: If many European banks admitted the true value of their   loans, they’d go under, Eisman believes  —   potentially sparking a   new financial crisis. ” ’  ’ ’   Eisman was featured in Michael Lewis’’   book, ”The   Big Short,” as one of the few people to correctly predict that   the financial crisis of 2007 was coming  —   making a fortune as his   firm FrontPoint Partners bet against subprime mortgages (as much   as $1 billion, The Guardian reports). He was subsequently played   in the film adaptation of the book by Steve Carell  —   albeit with   his name changed to Mark Baum. ’ ’   If you’’re British, you’’re in luck when it comes to Eisman’’s new   predictions. ” “I’m not really worried about England’s banks . ..   They are in better shape than most in Europe,” he said. ’ ’   What is very negative is that in every country in Europe, the   largest owner of that country’s sovereign bonds are that   country’s banks.” ’ ’   And Eisman, who now works at Neuberger Berman, isn’’t the only one   warning about European banks. KPMG fears that they are trapped in   a ”downward spiral,”  with     loans jumping on average from 1. 5% of banks’’ total in 2007 and   2007 to 5% today. ’ ’   KPMG partner Marcus Evans isn’’t entirely pessimistic, saying:   ”The successful banks will restructure their balance sheets to   minimise the impact of new regulations and reduce their   cost‑to‑income ratios through smart use of technology . ..   Reversing the profitability of European banks is not a lost cause   but it will certainly be a lot of hard work.” ’ ’   Eisman’’s assessment is blunter: ”Europe is screwed.” ’