’  ’ ”   One prognostication I’ve been seeing a lot is that Donald Trump   will start his administration with a burst of fiscal stimulus: a   big tax cut, an increase in defense spending, an infrastructure   spending package. ” ”   And I’ve seen some Trump opponents  that whatever the   merits of such a   policy, it would likely boost the economy in the short run and   therefore allow Trump to start his administration with high   popularity. ” ”   But I don’t think we should assume a Trump fiscal stimulus would   be effective in stimulating the economy. ” ’   Often, debates over fiscal policy feel as if they are frozen in   2009 or 2011. Liberals got used to arguing that larger government   deficits would boost an economy that was awash in idle capital   and labor just waiting to be put to work because that was the   situation at the time. ’ ’   I think they were right at the time. ’ ”   But even if an additional stimulus package would have been a good   idea in 2011, that doesn’t mean such a package would grow the   economy in Trump’s America. ” ”   The American economy is approaching full employment. Interest   rates remain low, but they have risen sharply since Trump’s   election: The   Treasury bond yield has gone from 1. 86% on   Election Day to 2. 33% as of Monday. ” ’   Because of limited slack in the economy, a large fiscal stimulus   today could actually have the effects that conservatives   incorrectly warned of in 2009: higher government borrowing costs,   a crowding out of useful   projects due to higher   interest rates, and inflation. ’ ’   A Trump stimulus would also likely be offset by Federal Reserve   action: the Fed could be expected to accelerate its interest rate   increases to stop inflation, and those higher rates would further   crowd out private investment, preventing the economy from   overheating. ’ ’   Of course, Trump could try to pressure the Fed against   tightening, but he does not directly control its actions. Many   Republicans in Congress have an ideological commitment to hawkish   Fed policy and would be unlikely to look kindly on a Trump effort   to pack the Federal Reserve Board with money printers. ’ ”   And if Trump succeeded in pressuring the Fed to allow the economy   to overheat, then you could really expect inflation  —   which   wouldn’t be popular with the retirees whose votes put Trump over   the top in the election. ” ’  ’ ”   It’s worth thinking about the recent history of deficit politics   in the United States and how it could be misleading us. ” ’   In his warning that Democrats should avoid working with Trump on   infrastructure, Jonathan Chait  deficit fights as a false morality   play, where Republicans open the spigots when they run the   government and take credit for economic growth, and then force   Democrats into painful austerity later. ’ ’   This is correct in regard the   history, but it misses a   lesson from the 1980s and 1990s that may prove relevant in a   Trump administration. ’ ”   There was a time when   deficits caused high interest   rates, which were unpopular. This meant cutting deficits wasn’t   just an exercise in making your constituents hate you and    like you. If you cut the   deficit, interest rates went down, and that made it easier for   businesses to invest and consumers to pay their bills. ” ’   So in 1993, President Bill Clinton sought and signed a     package from the Democratic Congress  —   no   hysterical Republican warnings needed. ’ ”   In 1990, President George H. W. Bush agreed on a deficit reduction   package with Democrats in Congress. This law was unpopular with   many Republicans because it raised taxes after Bush promised   not to raise taxes, but Republicans’ preferred alternative   policy was an    package, not higher deficits. ” ”   What’s changed in the intervening years was that interest rates   remained low. So even though there were large government deficits   in some years, these did not impose a significant drag on the   economy. Calls for deficit reduction were all politics because   during this period there was not a strong policy reason to cut   the deficit. ” ”   But that need not be true forever, and a large burst of deficit   spending not prompted by an actual economic downturn would be   exactly the sort of policy you would need to bring the       ’  era to a close. ” ”   Of course, the budget deficit is not the only way in which fiscal   policy affects the economy, and Trump’s policies could grow the   economy through other channels. For example, he could implement   tax cuts that are specifically designed to encourage investment   and work, or he could build infrastructure that grows the   productive capacity of the economy. ” ’   I am skeptical that Trump will deliver a lot in the     growth area, though I do think one of his major policies  —   a cut   in the corporate income tax rate  —   would be       whatever its distributive merits. ’ ”   But when thinking about whether Trump is likely to enter office   with a   burst in growth, the key is to remember these     matters are for the long run: Lower corporate income   taxes could encourage corporate investments that make the company   gradually more productive over years and decades, but they won’t   do much to boost next quarter’s GDP growth number. ”