’  ’ ’     Donald Trump just offered a preview of his first   100 days in office. ’ ’   Trump appeared in a YouTube video on Monday outlining a number of   policies he says his administration will seek to enact after he   is inaugurated in January. ’ ’   The message closely resembled the pitch from his days on the   campaign trail, highlighting his goal to preserve American jobs   and bolster US military defenses. ’ ”   Here’s a list of the initiatives Trump says he wants to pursue   starting on day one: ” ”   Two things were missing from Trump’s message  —   a mention of a   border wall that he vowed to build between the US and Mexico, and   details on his proposed alternative to the Affordable Care Act. ” ”   The border wall was one of Trump’s signature campaign promises   and an extension of an immigration platform that sought to deport   millions of people who are in the US illegally. ” ’   On the Affordable Care Act  —     as Obamacare  —       Trump promised to ”repeal and replace” the law as   soon as he took office. ’ ’  ’ ”   It is unclear when those initiatives might be taken up. After   Trump’s first meeting with President Barack Obama days after the   election, Trump signaled that he may . ” ”   Additionally, Trump’s promise on Monday to push for ethics reform   comes on the same day that his labyrinthine foreign business   connections . Last week, amid a flurry of   meetings with domestic and international dignitaries, the   billionaire mogul also sat down with three Indian business   partners who are building a   apartment complex near   Mumbai. ” ’   According to The New York Times, a Trump Organization spokeswoman    the meeting as a ”courtesy call.” ’ ’   Trump, who has grown increasingly hostile toward news   organizations since he was elected, appeared to address that   issue . The message claimed that it was   ”well known” that he has business dealings around the world.   ”Only the crooked media makes this a big deal,” the tweet read. ’ ”   The  ’s private business interests are widely   thought to pose . ” ’ ’