’  ’ ”   Last fall, Apple Chief Design Officer Jony Ive was asked what he   would do if he weren’t designing for Apple. ” ’   ”If I wasn’’t doing this, I think I would just be drawing or   making stuff for friends,” Ive said during an interview with   Charlie Rose. ”Maybe it would just be Christmas tree ornaments, I   don’’t know.” ’ ”   Last Sunday, the London hotel Claridge’s  its annual Christmas tree installation. ” ’   It was designed by Ive. ’ ’   Ive’’s  says he’’s ”responsible for all design at Apple, including   the look and feel of Apple hardware, user interface, packaging,   major architectural projects such as Apple Campus 2 and Apple’’s   retail stores, as well as new ideas and future initiatives.” ’ ’   But people who know the company well are starting to suggest that   Ive has been taking more of a backseat role and may not even be   deeply involved in product design anymore, which was where he   made his biggest mark on the company. ’ ’   ”I’’ve heard that he has lately been checked out or not as   directly involved with product design, and that he’’s been largely   focused on architecture,” Apple watcher  the former editor of Macworld, during a podcast last   week. Ive is mostly working on the new retail stores and working   closely with head of retail Angela Ahrendts, Snell said he’’s   heard. ’ ’   Gruber  on his blog that he did not mean to imply Ive was   on his way out, and that Apple sources have told him ”every   aspect of every new product remains as much under his watchful   eye as ever.” ’ ’  ’ ”   There isn’t a whole lot of evidence one way or the other. But a    taking a look back at Ive’s best designs is   certainly stoking the speculation. ” ’   ”Criticizing execs is unpopular, but Ive seems stretched thin,   burnt out, and bored,” Apple blogger . ”I’’d love to see some fresh design leadership   at Apple.” ’ ’  ’ ”   During Apple’s meteoric rise from 2000 to 2011, Ive was at Steve   Jobs’ side. ” ”   He ran Apple’s industrial design department, which was empowered   to imagine products like the iPhone. Ive often gave concepts to   Apple’s engineering department, telling them to make the product   design possible, which is counter to how industrial design works   at other   firms. ” ”   Ive considered himself Jobs’ closest friend, and he is still seen   as a critical person for the company. His   team designed   every single one of Apple’s iconic products in the past 15 years,   from the iPod to the iPhone. ” ’   If Ive were to retire officially, it could spook investors. ’ ”   After Jobs’ death, it looked as if Ive had received even more   responsibility at Apple. He expanded his role from strictly   physical industrial design to digital user interface as well. ” ’   Then, in the summer of 2015, Ive received a promotion to chief   design officer. The news was  on a . ’ ’   CEO Tim Cook explained the move in a memo to employees, which was   leaked and published on : ’ ’   When Ive left, Harper Alexander, his handpicked lab manager and     man, left the group, too  —   he now  for Apple. ’ ’   Many analysts, such as Above Avalon’’s Neil Cybart,  that Ive is one   of the most important people at the company. ”With Jony Ive   positioned as overseer of Apple design, his influence on Apple’’s   product direction cannot be overstated,” he wrote earlier this   month. ’ ”   But earlier this spring, Apple’s iPhone SE launched without a   product explanation from Ive, as most previous Apple products had   received. And he kept a low profile at the launch event  —   only   one reporter who attended told us he saw Ive, while many others   said they thought he wasn’t there. ” ”   Ive contributed   to the launches of the iPhone 7 and   MacBook Pro this fall. But as many have observed, he did more   press, including two interviews, for his new book than he did for   Apple’s latest products. ” ’   Ive is certainly keeping a much lower profile than he did before   his promotion. ’ ’  ’ ”   Despite Ive’s clear importance to the company and his role in   Apple lore, the company does not list Ive as one of its six most   highly compensated executives in Securities and Exchange   Commission documents. ” ’   (Those execs are CEO Tim Cook, CFO Luca Maestri, Ahrendts, Online   Services SVP Eddy Cue, Hardware SVP Dan Riccio, and General   Counsel Bruce Sewell.) ’ ’   The last time Ive was listed on a SEC Form 4, which is required   whenever an ”insider” acquires or disposes of stock, was . It said he owned 28, 127 shares of Apple stock at the   time. There’’s been a   split since then. ’ ”   Simply put, nobody outside Apple knows how much Ive makes, even   though we know what the rest of Apple’s executive team makes. ” ”   Shareholders do not know what Ive makes. It could be massive, or   he could already be collecting a nominal salary because he’s   effectively retired. It’s impossible to tell. ” ”   Making it harder for investors to gain clarity on the situation,   Ive has traditionally run a   extremely secretive ship.   Even Snell and Gruber, with their inside Apple sources, realize   there is only so much an Apple employee would know, given that   Ive’s team has traditionally worked apart from the company,   especially the software engineering department. ” ”   Former Apple exec Scott Forstall, who developed iOS, could not   get into Ive’s lab with his senior vice president ID card,   according to a . ” ’   The team was small, at fewer than 20 members, although it has   grown recently and now includes user interface as well. Few   people ever leave the group, although Daniel Coster, a longtime   member, was wooed by GoPro. ’ ”   These team members sit together at lunch and are fiercely   loyal to one another. If anyone knows if Ive is no longer showing   up to the shop, it’s them, and they’re not talking  —   to other   Apple employees or the press. ” ’   Apple did not respond to a request for comment. ’ ’  ’ ”   Of course, Ive could just be head down, working on Apple’s next   big thing  —   the successor to the iPhone that will ensure the   company remains the world’s most admired for years to come. ” ”   Snell suggests that the Apple Car, now seemingly on the back   burner, was an Ive passion project. That’s certainly plausible.   One of the reported goals for the Apple Car project was to retain   top talent who might be bored working on incremental iPhone   improvements. ” ”   But it’s much harder to see Ive driving the development behind    which Apple is   currently working on. ” ’ that the face ”was the wrong place” for   technology, in a long profile written in the fall of 2014, just   before Apple unveiled the Apple Watch. Ive sounded tired: ’ ”   A quote from Jobs’ widow in the same profile hinted at a role   change as well: ” ”   Ive’s studio is currently located on the ground floor at 2   Infinite Loop, with a direct passageway to 1 Infinite Loop, where   Cook and the rest of his executive team members meet weekly. ” ’   When Apple moves into its new ”Spaceship” Campus 2, the   industrial design group will get the best location on the ring. ’ ”   They’ll be on the fourth floor, in a new      studio. They will have a view of much of Apple’s campus. It’s a   symbol of how important the industrial design group led by Ive   has been to Apple. ” ’   When the team moves in, will Ive be there, looking at the campus   he designed and helped build with them? Or will he be off in   England designing retail stores, the Apple Car, or Christmas   ornaments for friends? ’ ’ Know anything about what Jony Ive is up to these days? Email   the author at kleswing@businessinsider. com. ’