’  ’ ”   In an essay for  Nobel Prize winning economist  nailed   why the ’Make America Great Again’ slogan resonated with so many   Donald Trump supporters. ” ’   From his essay: ’ ’    ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   This is the part where it’s really worth pointing out that not   all Trump supporters are struggling economically. In fact, the   average income of a Trump supporter  ” ’   But make no mistake, this kind of ”no handouts” thinking appeals   to them too. It means they don’’t have to pay higher taxes to   subsidize the advancement of those left behind by globalization   and technological change. They don’’t have to pay to teach coal   miners to do something else, or send their kids to community   colleges.  ’ ’   Why, they wonder, should some wealthier Americans have to care   for others less fortunate? ’ ”   That mindset even extends to the billionaire class  —   people you   would think wouldn’t even notice a few million sent to the   government in order to pave roads, build schools, and reeducate   workers. ” ’   Take, for instance, comments made by billionaire investor Sam   Zell this spring in front of an  He was speaking with his fellow   billionaire, T. Boone Pickens, at the Skybridge Alternatives   conference in Las Vegas in May.  ’ ’  ’ ”   Both Zell and Pickens lamented that there didn’t seem to be   enough opportunities for young people as there were in their day.   Neither man could quite put their finger on why. ” ”   Here’s Zell [emphasis ours]: ” ”   Sure Sam, these kids don’t have as much opportunity because you   have to file some extra paperwork to buy another company. Sounds   likely. ” ’   Analysts at Morgan Stanley come to another conclusion that sounds   shockingly familiar (see above). In order to give people   opportunity you have to put money to work and invest in them. ’ ’   ”I think governments will need to improve access to education,   enhance social mobility and improve financial stability,”   wrote Global   of Economics  in a recent note to clients. ’ ”   What’s more, Bartsch then went on to say the lack of this kind of   investment helped lead us to the financial crisis and then made   the aftermath worse. ” ’   ”An interesting conclusion emerges from recent academic studies:   higher income inequality seems to have been conducive to   unsustainable consumer borrowing in the   to the Global   Financial Crisis,” she wrote. ’ ’   ”After disadvantaged households bumped up their consumption   possibilities through borrowing, they found themselves with   impaired balance sheets, limited income prospects and heavy debt   loads in the aftermath of the crisis. Unsurprisingly, they   are frustrated by their dim prospects.” ’ ”   In that, the financial crisis serves as a somber reminder of the   danger and tragedy of callously leaving some in society behind  —     of believing we have no responsibility to society as a whole. The     camp may want to keep their money, but   they’re paying for the world they want with instability and   crisis. ” ’   This election serves as a reminder of the same thing. ’