’  ’ ’     Donald Trump won several states that had long   been Democratic, like  as well as swing   states, like Ohio and Florida, on his way to a seemingly   improbable electoral victory earlier this month. ’ ’   Chris Arnade,  who has spent the past four years   traveling the US to document the opioid crisis, was  surprised. After   traveling tens of thousands of miles in   communities   along the Rust Belt and elsewhere, he found one constant. ’ ’   ”Wherever I saw strong addiction and strong drug use,” Arnade   told Business Insider, he saw support for Trump. ’ ’   Official voting data has suggested a similar correlation. Since   the November 8 election, Shannon Monnat, a rural sociologist and   demographer at Pennsylvania State University, has dug into the   results. She found that counties that voted more heavily for   Trump than expected were closely correlated with counties that   experienced high rates of death caused by drugs, alcohol, and   suicide. ’ ’   Two other factors were strongly correlated with Trump   ”overperformance,” Monnat found: the percentage of white voters   in the county and its ranking on Monnat’’s ”economic distress   index.” The index, which Monnat has used in her research for   years, combines the percentages of people who are in poverty,   unemployed, disabled, in   families, living on public   assistance, or living without health insurance. ’ ”   Monnat wasn’t surprised by the correlation. ” ’   ”I expected to see it because when you think about the underlying   factors that lead to overdose or suicide, it’’s depression,   despair, distress, and anxiety,” Monnat told Business Insider.   ”That was the message that Trump was appealing to. ’ ’   ”People are literally dying,” she added. ”There was such a sense   of hopelessness that it makes sense they would vote for massive   change.” ’ ’  ’ ’   That correlation surfaced across the US, not just in areas of   heavy Trump support like Appalachia and the Rust Belt, Monnat   said. Even in counties with high mortality rates relating to   drugs, alcohol, and suicide that Trump lost, he overperformed   relative to 2012 Republican nominee Mitt Romney. ’ ’ who has closely   followed the opioid crisis, noticed a similar phenomenon   unfolding on election night. Traditionally blue counties that she   knew to be hard hit by opioids were flipping to Trump. ’ ’   After ”recovering from the shock,” she began comparing the     death rate with voter performance in critical   states such as Ohio, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, and Michigan. ’ ’   What she found was striking. ’ ’   Six of the nine Ohio counties that flipped from Democrat to   Republican in 2016 logged overdose death rates far above the   national rate of . Nearly every Ohio county with an overdose   death rate above 20 per 100, 000 saw voting gains of 10% or more   for Trump compared with Romney   drops of 10% or more for   Hillary Clinton compared to President Barack Obama in 2012. Only   Butler County, home to Miami University, and Hamilton County, the   jurisdiction for Cincinnati, did not conform to this pattern. ’ ”     of 33 Pennsylvania counties with overdose death rates   above 20 per 100, 000 conformed to the same pattern   flipped   from Democrat to Republican entirely. (You can see Frydl’s   .) ” ’   The phenomenon led Frydl to dub such voters the ”.” ’ ”   The Economist found similar voting trends, though it  such as obesity, heavy drinking, and physical   activity, was the most accurate predictor of Trump’s   outperformance of Romney. ” ”   Even in the Ohio counties that The Economist pointed to as   evidence of its analysis  —   Knox and Jefferson  —   the overdose   death statistics bear out. Jefferson County, whose margin of   victory for Trump was 30 percentage points higher than Romney’s   compared with 14 points for Knox, according to The Economist, had   an overdose rate in 2015 of . Knox’s was nearly half that, at 15. 1 per   100, 000. ” ’   Renowned statistician Nate Silver, the    of   FiveThirtyEight, argued on Twitter that education levels were   still the most accurate predictor of Trump voting trends and that   linking heroin deaths with voting was a ”.” Many analysts have pointed to percentage of      white males as the leading predictor of   Trump performance. ’ ’   Frydl said, however, that there was a ”sea of correlations”   uniting these communities across the US, noting overdose deaths   rates, mortality rates, education levels, and race, among others.   And while she said ”correlation does not equal causation,” the   characteristics can help analysts understand why Trump’s campaign   had such appeal. ’ ’   Similarly, Monnat suggested that the rates of       and   mortality she looked into were not in and of   themselves enough to explain why voters gravitated toward Trump.   Rather, she said, they are ”reflective of the structural   problem.” ’ ’   These are communities that feel ”marginalized” and ”left behind”   by globalization and the larger economic structure that has taken   place over the past several decades, Monnat said. These are   communities that have lost  and  have seen their downtowns gutted for Walmarts   and   stores, and have seen . ’ ’   In these communities, it’’s not just about an economy that’’s   failing them, Arnade said, but how the very structure of their   communities has changed, for both rich and poor. Social networks   have become ”broken” and people feel ”humiliated,” he said. ’ ’  ’ ’   The coming of the opioid crisis in the Rust Belt and Appalachia   felt a lot like the economic problems that preceded it  —     something over which its residents had no control. ’ ’   People were unprepared for the opioid crisis and, ”what’’s more,   believed they had done nothing to deserve it,”  wrote on his blog   Monday. Quinones investigated the causes of the opioid crisis   extensively in his 2015 book, ”.” ’ ’   ”The effects of opioid addiction ripple out far beyond addicts to   affect entire communities,” Quinones wrote, killing their   ”buoyancy of spirit” and leaving them open to the ”foreboding   that seemed to motivate many voters.” ’ ’   In an interview with the Columbia Journalism Review, Arnade   ” community   that he visited: Prestonsburg, Kentucky, a coal town of 3, 500   residents, most of them white. Here’’s how he described its turn   toward Trump: ’ ’   Trump’’s attack on immigration and globalization was the perfect   ”  punch” in a place like Prestonsburg, Arnade said. It   ”punches downward” by scapegoating others, like immigrants and   minorities, and upward at what the working class views as a   ”rigged system” pushed by politicians with ”fancy educations.” ’ ’   But Arnade said it was too easy to vilify such voters as ”racist   and stupid,” even if Trump’’s racial appeals may have resonated.   Many Trump voters in those communities, he said, voted for Obama   and were voting ”to kick over the system.” ’ ’   Frydl described the movement from economic decline to opioid   crisis to Trump support as ”a nested chain of causality,” wherein   the anchor is the loss of industry and economy in the Rust Belt   and Appalachia. ’ ’   Frydl too saw the Trump win in such areas as a vote against the   status quo in the same way that a vote for Obama was in 2008. In   that way, she thinks Trump’’s upset is a ”de facto” judgment on   Obama’’s failure to be the ”change agent” many thought they were   voting for. ’ ’   ”The people in Pennsylvania, Ohio, and the steel belt that voted   for Trump were aware that the steel mills closed in 1983,” she   said. ”They were aware of that in 2012 when they voted for Obama.   There is something specific to the opioid crisis in the last four   years that is a social policy failure that deserves to be treated   as discrete.” ’ ’   Frydl, who has written  believes that the Obama   administration’s response to the opioid crisis signaled to many     areas that ”their suffering was not registering   with the Democratic Party establishment.” ’ ”   The administration’s landmark  the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, was   seen as modest, at best. Attorney General Eric Holder failed to   hold Purdue Pharma, widely considered to be the main source for   opioid overprescribing in the 1990s and 2000s, or other   pharmaceutical companies to account for their part in the crisis,   Frydl said. And even as the government cracked down on legal   prescription drugs,  and  flooded in to meet demand. ” ”   After decades of systemic economic decline and the government’s   failure to address the subsequent   crisis, Trump’s   outsider campaign was perfectly primed to capitalize on the     Oxy electorate’s fears about foreign influence and loss   of status. ” ’   ”I’’m not sure why we didn’’t think it would impact the   presidential election,” Monnat said. ”It’’s finally come to bear,   and we’’re going to have to deal with the repercussions of that.” ’