’  ’ ’   Faraday Future, the troubled upstart   company that   set out to challenge Tesla, appears to have encountered another   setback. ’ ’   According to a  from the Financial Times on Thursday, Faraday Future   is likely to miss a shipping deadline for its first production   vehicles. The company initially said it could bring its cars to   market in 2017. ’ ’   Construction  at the company’’s $1 billion North Las   Vegas factory. A Faraday Future spokesperson told Business   Insider last week that the company is ”refocusing efforts” on its   upcoming production vehicle in the meantime. ’ ”   Faraday Future says it will  at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas   in January. However, the company’s goal to get those cars rolling   off of an assembly line by 2017 is in doubt. ” ’   A former Faraday Future employee cited by the Financial Times   said the 2017 timeline was “not possible.” ’ ’’ ’   The startup so far has no factory in which to build the cars. ’ ’   Nevada state officials and Faraday Future executives attended a   ceremonial groundbreaking for its inaugural plant in North Las   Vegas in April. Business Insider  as was Nevada Gov. Brian Sandoval who    as a ”new beginning” and ”the next chapter   in the Nevada story.” ’ ”   Although the state of Nevada has offered Faraday Future millions   of dollars in tax incentives, state treasurer Dan Schwartz was   one of the project’s most vocal skeptics. In several   conversations with Business Insider, Schwartz  to   complete the project. ” ’   The company is primarily backed by LeEco chairman Jia Yueting,   who recently expressed surprise that the car business is a costly   endeavor. LeEco is also developing its own electric car. ’ ’   Jia  earlier this month saying ”We   sped blindly ahead . .. our cash demand ballooned. We got   overextended in our global strategy. At the same time, our   capital and resources were in fact limited.” ’ ’   A group of Chinese investors reportedly  to help boost LeEco. ’ ’   A Faraday Future representative did not immediately respond to a   request for comment. ’