’  ’ ”   WASHINGTON (Reuters)   Wisconsin’s election commission said on   Friday it had received petitions for a recount of votes in the   presidential election from the Green Party campaign and another   candidate and was planning to start the process. ” ”   “The Commission is preparing to move forward with a statewide   recount of votes for President of the United States, as requested   by these candidates,” Commission Administrator Michael Haas said   in a statement on the agency’s website. ” ”   The move follows comments by Green Party presidential   candidateearlier   on Friday that her push for election recounts in Wisconsin,   Michigan and Pennsylvania was aimed at assessing the integrity of   the U. S. voting system, not at undermining Republican Donald   Trump’s White House victory. ” ”   While’s effort this week may have spurred   hope among disappointed supporters of Democratic candidate   Hillary Clinton, the chances of such recounts   if they take   place   overturning the overall result from the Nov. 8 election   are extremely slim, given Trump’s margins of victory in the three   states.  ” ’   Since launching the recount campaign on   Wednesday, has raised more than $5   million. The Green Party said it wants to raise $7 million for   the recounts, including the cost of legal fees. ’ ’  ’ ’   The Green Party has said that despite the millions it has raised   to fund the recounts, it could not guarantee any would occur and   that if its requests were denied or there were surplus funds, it   would use the money to push for voting system reforms. ’ ’ who won just 1 percent of the national vote   herself, told CNN that while there was no evidence of tampering   or other voting errors in the election, only a full review in   those states would give Americans confidence in the results. ’ ’   ”This was a   election,” she said, pointing to hacking   before the vote of political organizations and individual email   accounts, as well as recent media reports citing concerns by   computer security experts. ’ ’   The deadline to request the Wisconsin recount was Friday   afternoon, while for Pennsylvania the deadline is Monday and for   Michigan Wednesday.  ’ ”   Wisconsin’s Haas said that with a federal deadline of Dec. 13 to   complete the recounts, county boards of canvassers might have to   work evenings and weekends.  ” ’   The other petitioner for a recount in the state was     candidate Rocky Roque De La Fuente, the commission statement   said.  ’ ’  ’ ’   Although Trump won narrowly in Wisconsin, Michigan and   Pennsylvania, the margins make it highly unlikely that any   recounts would end up giving Clinton a win in all three states,   which would be needed for the overall presidential election   result to change. Trump beat Clinton in Pennsylvania by 70, 010   votes, in Michigan by 10, 704 votes and in Wisconsin by 27, 257   votes. ’ ’   The presidential race is decided by the Electoral College, or a   tally of wins from the    contests, rather than by   the popular national vote. The Electoral College results are   expected to be finalized when electors meet on Dec. 19. ’ ’   Trump surpassed the 270 electoral votes needed to win, although   once the final tallies of votes are in, Clinton will have won the   national popular vote by more than 2 million votes. ’ ’   Asked if she was trying to upset   Trump, told CNN ”Absolutely not,”   adding that she also did not back Clinton.  ’ ’   A representative for Trump’’s transition team on Thursday had no   comment on’’s effort. In a Twitter post on   Thursday, senior Trump adviser Kellyanne Conway cited a New York   Times article and mocked Clinton supporters who ”can’’t accept the   election results.” ’ ”   Clinton has not commented on’s effort,   and a representative for her did not reply to a request for   comment. ” ”   (Additional reporting by Gina Cherelus, Brendan O’Brien and Frank   McGurty in New York and Eric Walsh in Washington; Editing by   Frances Kerry and Jonathan Oatis) ”