”The market is closed. The world is at a standstill. It’s Thanksgiving Day and you’ve probably just stuffed your face with turkey and pumpkin pie. ” ”That doesn’t mean you can’t get a little Wall Street in your day, though. Why not kick back on the couch and watch one of these Wall Street movies?” ”You’ll definitely enjoy yourself, and you might even learn something.” ’ ’ ”In a sentence: It’s a heartwarming classic that will never get old. ” ’Plot: A guardian angel shows businessman George Bailey what life would be like if he never existed. ’ ’Genre: Family’ ’In a sentence: No movie about Wall Street is funnier than the 1983 comedy ”Trading Places. ”’ ”Plot: Eddie Murphy and Dan Aykroyd are at their best as director John Landis tells the tale of how one man’s fall from Wall Street is another man’s blessing. Watching Murphy talk about futures and markets is hilarious and unparalleled in humor.” ’Genre: Comedy’ ’In a sentence: Brilliant . .. If you can find it.’ ”Plot: Made in 1987 during the raging bull market, this   documentary stars Paul Tudor Jones and chronicles his    life as an active investor. Jones uses techniques like historical chart reading, taken from Jesse Livermore, to predict the Black Monday crash on film. Even though it portrays Jones in a positive light, finding a (legitimate and legal) copy of this movie is nearly impossible to find as it’s rumored that Jones bought all 1, 000 copies in existence.” ’Genre: Documentary’ ’In a sentence: The classic Wall Street film.’ ”Plot: Oliver Stone originally set out to depict the greed associated with Wall Street in the 1980s. Little did he know, it would go on to become one of the finest pieces of financial cinema ever created. Traders still go nuts for this movie and everyone loves Michael Douglas’ character Gordan Gekko, who is modeled partly after Michael Milken and Ivan Boesky.” ’Genre:  ’ ’In a sentence: A British classic about prop traders working in ”the City” for ’ ”Plot: One of Whitney Paine’s top traders commits suicide in the boardroom following a $100 million trading loss. Other prop traders at the firm want to step into his place and save the firm. Trader Daniel Pascoe (Paul McGann) thinks he’s the one for the job. The bank sends over a female trader,  from the US.” ’Genre: Drama’ ’’ ”In a sentence: The film’s ability to tackle different New York City social classes is without question.” ’Plot: Originally a book by Tom Wolfe, ”Bonfire of the Vanities” targeted the Manhattan elite of the 1980s and their distance from the rest of the city. Tom Hanks, as the film’’s lead, gets involved in an extramarital affair and, eventually, a tragic murder results. It remains excellent viewing to understand New York’’s stratification today.’ ’Genre:  ’ ”In a sentence: It’s a romantic comedy about a corporate raider. ” ’Plot: Corporate raider ’ ’’ ’’ ”In a sentence: An investment banker’s secretary has her investment idea stolen by her boss, so she gets revenge by pretending she has her boss’ job.” ”Plot: An ambitious Staten   secretary, Tess McGill (Melanie Griffith) is assigned to be the secretary for M&A banker Katherine Parker (Sigourney Weaver). Her new boss lets her share ideas. When Katherine breaks her leg on vacation in a ski accident, Tess is asked to look after things at her home and office. That’s when she discovers thatTess uses it as an opportunity to pretend she has her boss’ job. She then works with another banker, ” ’’ ’’ ’In a sentence: ”The leads are weak? You’’re weak!”  —   Alec Baldwin’ ’Plot: ”Glengarry Glen Ross” takes place off of Wall Street but still portrays the incentives that salesman deal with, including bonuses and cars and how they’’ll do anything to close the sale. Alec Baldwin is only in the movie for about 10 minutes but gives a speech that deserves an Oscar to a group of   actors including Jack Lemon, Kevin Spacey, and Ed Harris.’ ’Genre: Drama’ ’ ’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’In a sentence: A   San Francisco banker gets a disturbing present for his 48th birthday.’ ’Plot: Michael Douglas plays wealthy investment banker ’ ’’ ’’ ’In a sentence:   British version of ”Wall Street. ”’ ’Plot: Based on the   story of Barings Bank trader Nick Leeson, Ewan McGregor does a surprisingly awesome job of emulating the British wunderkind down to his addiction to fruit candies. While a relatively unsuccessful movie at the box office, Rogue Trader is entertaining.’ ’Genre:   ’ ”In a sentence: If you’ve ever worked in a job in sales or telemarketing, this should seem all too familiar to you.” ”Plot: Vin Diesel and Giovanni Ribisi as Long Island pump and dump brokers? Count us in. This classic flick showcases Ribisi’s rise to the top as he learns the    of operating in a boiler room out of Long Island. It’s very similar to  minus the yachts and excessive drug use.” ’Genre:   ’ ”In a sentence: You’ll never look at business cards the same way again.” ’Plot: Patrick Bateman, played by Christian Bale in ”American Psycho,” is the consummate Wall Street professional, beyond the fact that he’’s losing his mind. Throughout the film Bateman utters some absolute classics, including a soliloquy on Phil Collins that likely changed his career forever. The film also made ”The Dorsia” a catchphrase for an exclusive restaurant.’ ’Genre:  ’ ’In a sentence: A successful dealmaker who thought he had everything gets a glimpse at what life could have been if he married his college girlfriend and had a family. ’ ”Plot: Investment banker Jack Campbell (Nicolas Cage) thought he had everything. For the last 13 years, he had been living the single life in NYC working for a   investment firm doing deals and driving a Ferrari. One day he wakes up and finds that he’s married to his college girlfriend Kate, who he left. They have kids and he’s driving a minivan and working for a tire company. ” ’’ ’’ ’In a sentence: One of the best documentaries ever made. Ever.’ ’Plot: ”Enron: TSGITR” tells the tale of Enron’’s rise and fall from grace, including the strange tales of executives Ken Lay, Jeff Skilling, Andy Fastow, and Timothy Belden. This breathtaking movie also features interviews from former energy traders and hedge fund   Jim Chanos.’ ’Genre: Documentary ’ ”In a sentence: A security executive at a bank is forced to rob the bank that he’s spent 20 years protecting in order to save his family. ” ’Plot: Harrison Ford plays Jack Stanfield, the head of security for a   ’ ’’ ’’ ”In a sentence: It’s the sequel to Oliver Stone’s classic. ” ”Plot: Gordon Gekko gets out of prison for securities fraud. He teams up with his future    Jacob, to repair the relationship with his daughter, Winnie. Gekko also helps Jacob get back at the man who screwed his mentor’s firm over.” ’’ ’In a sentence: A rare look inside the minds of mathematical geniuses who have invented financial models that have both destroyed and made Wall Street.’ ’Plot: Quants is   documentary on the inner workings of quantitative analysts on Wall Street.’ ’Genre: Documentary’ ’In one sentence: A slightly sad look at the end of the   trading floor.’ ’Plot: Follow a bunch of veteran traders as they discuss their careers and the end of their way of doing business.’ ’Genre: Documentary’ ’In one sentence: Surely you remember the financial crisis.’ ’Plot: Lehman Brothers implodes, global markets are at risk, and Washington has to catch up to save the economy.’ ’Genre: Drama’ ’In a sentence’ ’Plot: One banker creates a model that shows that his firm is completely underwater, but before he can show anyone, he gets fired. He hands his model off to junior banker and the firm goes into emergency mode trying to save everything.’ ’Genre: Drama’ ’In a sentence: You may come out of this one scratching your head.’ ”Plot: Eric Packer, a billionaire investor, rides around Manhattan in his state of the art  . Throughout the day you’ll meet his wife, his lover, and his associates. After a currency speculation goes awry, Packer’s life begins to unravel. Enter murder and intrigue.” ’Genre:  ’ ”In a sentence: A solid job on everyone’s part, but maybe not a stunner.” ’Plot: Richard Gere plays a troubled hedge fund manager, Robert Miller, who is trying to sell his trading empire before anyone finds out that he has cooked the books. One night he accidentally falls asleep while driving with his mistress and she dies. To cover it up, he has to get help from an unlikely source.’ ’Genre:  ’ ”In a sentence: It’s by far the raunchiest Wall Street movie.” ”Plot: Jordan Belfort’s     memoir that chronicled his boozy,     Wall Street lifestyle running   boiler room Stratton Oakmont was adapted into a film directed by Martin Scorsese and starring Leonardo DiCaprio.” ’Genre:   ’ ’Note: Julia La Roche contributed to an earlier version of this post. ’