’’ ’Harvard is one of the ’ ’The Cambridge, Massachusetts, school of roughly 39, 000 applications for its class of 2020. As Harvard President Drew Gilpin Faust said in 2014, ”. ”’ ’The school seeks out students who not only have high grades, but also have outstanding achievements under their belts  —   from  to starting their own nonprofits. The students who manage to catch the attention of admissions officers overcome exceptional odds, but they should maintain some perspective.’ ’’ ’Ben Winsor and Christina Sterbenz also contributed to this story.’ ’The elementary admissions process in New York City is utterly grueling. A ’ ’’ ’’ ’ ’ ’Landing an   role in ’ ’’ ’T’ ’College startup  has received 16, 000 applications for 306 available places this year, ’ ”Its model vastly differs from what four years of school at other prestigious colleges resemble. Students don’t stay in one place during their   education.” ’They spend time in up to seven residence houses in San Francisco, California; Berlin, Germany; Buenos Aires, Argentina; Seoul, South Korea; Bangalore, India; Istanbul, Turkey; and London, England.’ ’’ ”A recent  shows that in many major US cities, it’s very hard to achieve a    success story. ” ”The report analyzes the number of people who were born into the lowest income quintile but ended up in the highest income quintile. The results don’t bode well for upward socioeconomic mobility.” ’The chances were below 5% in Atlanta, Georgia; Charlotte, North Carolina; Jacksonville, Florida; Columbus, Ohio; Dayton, Ohio; Milwaukee, Wisconsin; and Indianapolis, Indiana.’ ’Even at the top of the list, people in San Jose, California, showed just a 12. 9% chance of living the American dream.’ ’The NASA class of 2017 received ’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’Landing a job on Wall Street is notoriously hard.’ ’But gaining employment at hedge fund giant Citadel seems to be nearly impossible.’ ’’ ’’ ’When Facebook compiles your Newsfeed, it chooses from .’ ’The company uses an algorithm based on the popularity and relevance of posts, along with other factors, to decide what goes where.’ ’’ ’If you want to boost your chances, posts with photos do far better than links or   posts.’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ”Protecting the president of the US isn’t a job for any     bodyguard or security detail. ” ’The  of the Secret Service are, well, secret, but agents remain with the president and his family 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Other important government officials, like the vice president and his or her family, also receive protection, usually even after they leave their positions. ’ ’For these reasons, the Secret Service  less than 1% of its 15, 600   applications in 2011, Bloomberg reported.’ ’ to the US green card lottery every year, all hoping for a chance at a life in America, The Wall Street Journal has reported. ’ ’But only about 50, 000 green cards are available.’ ”The odds of obtaining a green card (known officially a Diversity Visa) vary depending on the applicant’s region. If you’re not from Australia, New Zealand, or a Pacific island, the odds aren’t good.” ’Fewer than 2% of applicants around the world end up getting a visa. The rate is about 6% in Oceania  —   because of fewer applications and relatively higher quotas.’ ’While Stanford lets in about 4. 7% of applicants, not even 1% get accepted to  Bloomberg Businessweek reported in 2013.’ ’’ ’ ’ ”Foursquare’s  began work on another startup in 2014: . ” ”It’s essentially a boot camp for data scientists. While many programming Ph. D. s have solid research skills, few can meet the pace of a startup. They need training. ” ’While Data Incubator hasn’’t released specific statistics on its inaugural classes,  that his startup has an ”exceptionally low admission rate” of under 5%.’ ’’ ”Within a year, he posted a lengthy explanation of the hiring process there on his personal blog, hinting at the company’s level of exclusivity,  reported. ” ’In his words, Google receives about 1 million applications every year  —   but hires only 1, 000 to 4, 000 people.   scenario, that means only 0. 4% of hopefuls land a job at Google. ’ ’They go through recruiter screening, two or three phone interviews, and then four or five   interviews on site, not to mention jumping through other professional hoops.’ ’Met with both merriment and protest, Walmart came to Washington, D. C. at the end of 2013. ’ ”The store received more than  but hired just 600 associates, NBC Washington reported. That’s a 2. 6% acceptance rate.” ’While many Stanford graduates can expect a   income, Walmart employees pocket an average of $11. 83 an hour or nearl.’