’  ’ ’   Officials in the Obama administration threw cold water on the   effort to recount votes in Wisconsin, Michigan, and Pennsylvania   on Friday. ’ ’   The effort was spearheaded by Green Party candidate Jill Stein,   who echoed arguments that Russia may have hacked US voting   machines to interfere with the outcome of the November 8   election. ’ ”   A statement from the Obama administration  acknowledged that the Kremlin   likely expected  in the     to Election Day to raise questions about the voting process and   the legitimacy of   Donald Trump’s victory. ” ’   ”Nevertheless, we stand behind our election results, which   accurately reflect the will of the American people,” the   statement read. ’ ’   Speculation that electronic voting machines could be hacked has   largely been debunked, primarily . ’ ’   Stein contended that this was a ”  election” that   warrants a second look at the votes. Trump won by thin margins in   the three states Stein aims to contest. ’ ’   The Green Party sought to raise $7 million to fund the recount.   Fundraising surpassed the $5 million mark on Friday. For her   part, Stein only received one percent of the vote nationally. ’ ’  ’ ’   Election officials in Wisconsin accepted a recount petition on   Friday and announced that the effort was underway. ’ ’   The Times notes that officials close to Democrat Hillary   Clinton’’s campaign allegedly wanted nothing to do with the   recount effort. During a raucous election campaign in which Trump   routinely trumpeted unsubstantiated claims of a ”rigged”   election, Clinton frequently chided that rhetoric and called on   Trump to accept the eventual outcome. ’ ’   Clinton conceded the election hours after it became clear that   Trump would secure enough electoral votes to win the White House. ’ ’   On Saturday, the Clinton campaign’’s general counsel, Marc Elias    citing ”claims of abnormalities and irregularities.”   Elias added, however, that there is so far no evidence that the   results were manipulated. ’ ’   ”We believe we have an obligation to the more than 64 million   Americans who cast ballots for Hillary Clinton to participate in   ongoing proceedings to ensure that an accurate vote count will be   reported,” Elias wrote. ’ ”   Weeks after the election, some supporters of the recount have   pointed to Clinton’s growing lead in the popular vote as reason   to question the electoral outcome. ” ’   As of Friday, Clinton had secured two million more votes than the    . ’