’  ’ ”   Drama and showmanship has surrounded   Donald   Trump’s selection of his Cabinet  —   in typical Trump fashion. ” ’   Trump has hyped and teased who he will pick to serve in his   administration,  the ”finalists.” ’ ’     cameras    allowing curious viewers to watch the spectacle from their own   homes. ’ ’   And this week, there was a very public feud about the possibility   of Mitt Romney being tapped to serve as secretary of state, as   Trump allies  over   whether he should be selected for the top diplomatic post. ’ ’   ”Is it a good way to pick a cabinet? Not especially,” said Reed   Galen, who served in the George W. Bush administration and worked   on his and John McCain’’s presidential campaigns. ”But Trump ran   the worst technical campaign in modern history and is poised to   become president, so what do any of us really know?” ’ ’’ ’   Romney, who was harshly critical of Trump on the campaign trail   and called him a ”phony” and a ”fraud” in a memorable speech   during the GOP primary, met with Trump last weekend and emerged   as the frontrunner for the secretary of state position. But   infighting played out all week among Trump’’s inner circle.   It culminated in a Thanksgiving day tweet from senior   adviser Kellyanne Conway, who . ’ ’   Galen expressed some worry about the process in an email   to Business Insider. ’ ’   ”If it was ’’The Apprentice’’ or his own company, who cares? But   it’’s the US government and the world at large we’’re talking   about,” he said.  ’ ’   It should not be a surprise that Trump has chosen to select   his Cabinet in such a fashion. He was, after all, a     star who has thrived for many years being   in the public spotlight. And, during the campaign, he employed a   similar style to choose his running mate  —   before eventually   settling on Indiana Gov. Mike Pence . ’ ’   And, while the process has caused unease among political   journalists and analysts, some observers have suggested the   public nature of it may not entirely be a bad thing. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’