’  ’ ’     Donald Trump on Sunday alleged a mysterious bloc   of millions of ”illegal” voters cast ballots for Democratic   candidate Hillary Clinton on Election Day, costing him the   popular vote. ’ ’   Clinton is likely to defeat Trump in the popular vote by over 2   million votes. ’ ’   ”In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I   won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who   voted illegally,”  Sunday, without providing any factual   evidence to support his claim. ’ ’   Various   sites known for peddling false or misleading   information, like the   InfoWars, claimed   following the election that close to three million immigrants   living in the US illegally cast votes.   sites like    and  have all ruled that there is no evidence of   widespread voter fraud. ’ ’   Trump furthered the accusation on Sunday night by alleging    that there was ”serious voter fraud” in   Virginia, New Hampshire, and California. No evidence of voter   fraud in those states has surfaced as of yet. ’ ’’ ’   This isn’’t the first time Trump has indulged his conspiratorial   impulses about supposed voter fraud. Before the election, the     frequently claimed that there was a ”massive   problem” with immigrants living without permission in the US   voting despite . ’ ’   And despite lacking strong evidence, he  voter fraud in the Florida Republican   presidential primary and the Iowa caucuses. He too floated   several different conspiracy theories claiming ”dead   voters” supported President Barack Obama’’s reelection in 2012. ’ ”   Before it was apparent that he was slated to win on Election Day,   Trump’s attorneys  in   Nevada, alleging poll workers in   precincts violated   rules. ” ”   The  ’s allegation came as infighting over   Trump’s  spilled into the public view, and   as he has refused to change his business practices to  to the office of   the presidency. ” ’   It also came as Wisconsin officials prepared for a possible   recount of the state’’s presidential election initiated by a   request from Green Party nominee Jill Stein. The Clinton campaign   said it would participate in the recount, though it said it has   not found ”actionable evidence” of voting irregularities or   hacking. It also suggested it didn’’t expect results to change. ’ ’   Trump spent  amid the recount effort. ’ ’   ”Hillary Clinton conceded the election when she called me just   prior to the victory speech and after the results were in.   Nothing will change,” Trump wrote in a Sunday tweet. ’