’  ’ ”   Twelve years after Boeing discontinued the 757, the     ’tweener in the company’s lineup is still popular among U. S.   airlines. ” ’   American, Delta, and United all operate large fleets of the   airplane. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Although many of the planes are pushing 25 years of service,   airlines are hanging onto their 757s. For instance, Delta, who   has spent big bucks on a fleet of new jets, recently refurbished   the cabins of its aging 757s instead of replacing them with newer   planes. ’ ”   So why are its customer’s so loyal? Is the 757 that good? To get   some answers, Business Insider recently spoke with author and   Boeing 757 pilot Patrick Smith about the plane. ” ’   ”There’’s no denying the 757 is an old plane that   was designed in the late 1970s, but the versatility of the   plane is remarkable and unmatched,” Smith, the  told   Business Insider in an interview. ”It’’s profitable on both     domestic as well as   routes.” ’ ’  ’ ”   During it’s production life, the 757 was always a bit of an   oddity  —   a ’tweener of sorts. It’s larger and offers greater   range than the average narrow body jet, but smaller and cheaper   to operate than a  . Boeing and its customers, for many   years, didn’t quite know how to take full advantage of the   plane’s capabilities. However, when they did figure it out, it   became an integral part of the operators’ fleets. ” ”   Boeing is currently marketing a new stretched variant of its     737  —   called the MAX 9  —   as a potential replacement   for the 757. Now, there’s talk that  to get   closer to the 757’s capacity. ” ’   ”Boeing is trying to push the 737 as a viable 757 replacement,”   Smith said, ”In some respects it can and in some respects it   can’’t.” ’ ’   For instance, the . ’ ’   According to Smith, the 737 falls way short of the 757 in terms   of runway performance. The 737 requires a much higher takeoff   speed and much more runway to get off the ground. ’ ’   ”The 757 can be off the ground in 4, 000 ft. and under 140 knots,”   he told us. However, Smith recounts being in the cockpit jump   seat of a 737 as two other pilots were flying. During takeoff,   the author noticed that the plane didn’’t lift off until 160 knots   and used up much more runway. ’ ’   Furthermore, the 757 can comfortably climb straight to its   cruising altitude. On the other hand, the 737 requires a step   climb procedure that calls for the plane to climb to a certain   altitude and burn off some fuel to lighten the load before   climbing to a higher altitude. ’ ’   Runway performance matters. Especially when it comes to the type   of flying the 757 and the 737 are asked to perform  —       or oceanic flights with a full payload from   smaller secondary airports. ’ ’  ’ ’   ” ’ ”   The reality is that Smith believes the Boeing 737 is a good   plane, but is being asked to take on a mission the design wasn’t   meant to perform. ” ’   ”The Boeing 737 was essentially conceived as a small regional jet   nearly five decades ago,” Smith told us. ”It’’s an extremely   popular plane, but it’’s being asked to perform missions it wasn’’t   designed for.” ’ ”   As a result, Boeing is simply not in a position to bolt bigger   engines onto the 737. Since its introduction in the 1960s, Boeing   has been installing larger and larger engines on the 737 as the   size of the plane grew. Unfortunately, the amount of room   underneath the wing hasn’t changed. Thus, Boeing has all but   maxed out on the size of the engines it can mount on the 737   without completely redesigning the plane’s under carriage. ” ’   Instead of a stretched 737, Smith believes Boeing should have   gone for an updated version of the 757 at some point during its   production run. ’ ’  ’ ’   In a statement to Business Insider, a Boeing spokesperson wrote: ’ ’  ’ ”   With that said, the 757 isn’t a perfect plane. ” ’   ”It’’s a   (seating) narrow body that’’s long and thin,”   Smith said. ”And for passengers, it can take a long time to board   and disembark.” ’ ”   In addition, the 757’s cockpit is pretty   when   compared to modern airliners such as the 737 MAX. The controls of   the 757 are also much heavier for pilots than its sibling  —   the   Boeing 767. The 757 and 767 were developed at the same time and   feature virtually identical cockpits. ” ’   Finally, the Boeing 757 generates a massive amount of wake   turbulence as it flies  —   forcing air traffic controllers to keep   other planes far away from passing 757s. ’ ’   ”No one really knows why, but the 757 has really strong wake   turbulence,” Smith told us. ”The early 757s had worse wake   turbulence than the 747.” ’ ”   Although Smith added that the addition of winglets on later 757s   have greatly decreased the wake turbulence. The Boeing 757 is an   aircraft that’s come and gone. It served its tour of duty with   honor and distinction. Now, it’s time for Boeing to find a   replacement worthy of stepping into its shoes. ”