’  ’ ’   Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau clarified his comments on   the death of Cuban president Fidel Castro after being harshly   criticized for them. ’ ’   Trudeau said at a news conference on Sunday that his statement on   Castro’’s passing was meant ”to recognize . .. a former head of   state” that Canada has ties to, and not to overlook Castro’’s   history of human rights abuses, . ’ ’   ”The fact is Fidel Castro had a deep and lasting impact on the   Cuban people,” Trudeau said at the news conference. ’ ’   ”He certainly was a polarizing figure and there certainly were   significant concerns around human rights, that’’s something I’’m   open about and that I’’ve highlighted,” Trudeau said on Sunday. He   also acknowledged that Castro was a dictator when a . ’ ’   In a  released soon after Castro died, Trudeau expressed   ”deep sorrow” over his death and called him a ”larger than life   leader who served his people for almost half a century.” ’ ’   ”A legendary revolutionary and orator, Mr. Castro made   significant improvements to the education and healthcare of his   island nation,” the original statement read. ’ ’   Castro did garner support for improving access to healthcare and   education for the poor, but was also known for ruthlessly   suppressing any kind of dissent. ’ ”   In 1976, Trudeau’s father, former prime minister Pierre Elliot   Trudeau, became the first NATO leader to visit Cuba since its   revolution. Canada maintained relations with the island nation   during America’s   embargo. ” ’   Though Trudeau did acknowledge in the original statement that   Castro was a ”controversial” figure, he followed that by praising   Castro’’s ”tremendous dedication and love for the Cuban people.” ’ ”   Quickly after the statement was released, critics slammed   Trudeau’s comments. ; ” ’   Florida Sen. Marco Rubio, who is of Cuban descent,    ”Is this a real statement or parody? Because if this is a real   statement from the PM of Canada it is shameful and embarrassing.” ’ ’   Texas Sen. Ted Cruz echoed Rubio’’s remarks,  that Trudeau’’s comments were ”disgraceful.” ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tDisgraceful. Why do young socialists idolize totalitarian tyrants?  Castro, Stalin, Mao, Pol Pot    all evil, torturing murderers.    ’ ’   The hashtag  began trending on Twitter Saturday, jokingly    like Darth Vader from Star Wars   and President Snow from The Hunger Games. ’