’  ’ ’     I’ve written quite a bit over the past few years about the     death spiral of sea ice at the North Pole. Every year the     amount of ice goes up and down with the seasons, growing in     winter and declining in summer. But, on top of that there has     been a trend downward, such that year by year we     see less ice all the time.   ’ ’     Because of that we tend to see records set nearly every year.     For example, this year in March the Arctic sea ice reached its     maximum extent, but  since satellite records began in     1979.   ’ ’     Starting in September every year the ice begins to reform,     growing to a maximum. It reached that point on Sept. 10 this     year, . After that day, though, it started to     grow again.   ’ ’    started  fallen  ’ ’  ’ ’     Mind you, it’s winter up there. The Sun shines at     most a few hours a day at the southern edge of the Arctic     Circle right now. Yet temperatures in the Arctic are soaring;     in   it was an average of a staggering 22° Celsius,     or 40° Fahrenheit, above normal.   ’ ’     Holy cripes. What the hell is going on?   ’ ’     The obvious answer is: global warming. Like I said, as time     goes on, average temperatures go up, and amount of ice     decreases.   ’ ’     But there’s a less obvious but more important answer, too. And     that is: global warming.   ’ ’     That’s not a typo. The proximate cause of the temperature spike     has been . That     blows around the pole, and generally keeps the cold air up     there and the warm from the south away. But the jet steam has     been weak lately, and warm air has been able to push up into     the Arctic and keep temperatures up.   ’ ’     So why is the jet stream weak? Yup. . One     thing that powers the jet stream is the difference in     temperature between   and the more northern ones.     As the planet warms, that difference has fallen (the Arctic     warms faster than lower latitudes do) and that has weakened     the jet stream.   ’ ’     But there’s more. Because the planet is warming, the sea     surface temperatures are going up as well. Water that’s usually     frigid in October () has been warmer, so ice growth is slow.   ’ ’     There’s a subtle thing happening here too that’s important.     It’s not just that we’re seeing slower ice growth, but the high     temperatures are actually melting old, thick ice as well. So     it’s not just the extent that’s dropping, it’s     the volume as well. That’s important because     thin ice comes and goes, melting faster in the summer, but the     old thick ice should be here to stay. That’s no longer the     case; .   ’ ’     Here are two videos showing that. The first, from     NASA, :   ’ ’     The second, by Andy Lee Robinson,  using a     graphical approach:   ’ ’ ’ ’     I have to add that  showing the total global sea ice extent. It’s     troubling as well, but it comes with a caveat. Here’s the     graph:   ’ ’     This follows the amount of sea ice at both poles, Arctic and     Antarctic. It’s not really a good way to understand what’s     happening because the physical conditions at the two poles are     very different, and the amount of ice at each is ruled by     different circumstances. Combining them just confounds all     this.   ’ ’     Right now it’s approaching summer in the Southern Hemisphere,     and we expect Antarctic ice to decline. However, even     so,  and the extent there is lower than normal, too.   ’ ’     I include this graph because so many people are talking about     it, and it’s important to understand that scientists don’t     usually combine the two poles into one graph that way.   ’ ’     However there’s a second point to make as well. Whenever I     write about Arctic ice, a herd of  converge in the comments and on social media,     barking about how Antarctic sea ice is unchanged or even on the     rise. But —  shocker —  that’s crap. The two are unrelated; Antarctic     sea ice tends to be relatively steady year to year, and, as you     can see, despite that it is pretty low right     now.   ’ ’     And they also ignore the fact that Arctic ice has been steadily     decreasing for decades. Well, steadily until the past few     weeks.   ’ ’     It’s possible that the boreal ice will get its act together and     start growing again this season. It’s also possible it won’t.     Time will tell.   ’ ’     But time is not on our side. It’s entirely possible we’ll see     our first   Arctic summer in just a few decades. Not     centuries, or even a century. But .   ’ ’     The reason this is a concern is twofold. One is that as the     northern ice melts, it dumps a lot of fresh water into the     oceans. This changes the salinity of the oceans,     and . This heat     exchange powers a lot of our climate and weather, so having     this break down is, in a word, terrifying.   ’ ’     Second, the Arctic is our climate     .     Because it’s so sensitive to warming, studying it shows us what     we’re in for as our planet inexorably heats up.   ’ ’     I won’t spin this: This is not good news. As I  recently,      and  to help mitigate global warming.   ’ ’     But with  in office, and     him  I worry very much over what the next few     years will entail.   ’ ’Extent is a term climate scientists use,     and it’s a little different than just the area of the ice. When     they measure the ice they divide the area into regions, and if     a region is more than 15 percent ice they say it’s      .’