’     Donald Trump continued his screed against an   election recount effort in Wisconsin in an     tweetstorm that continued into Sunday morning. ’ ’   In a series of tweets early Sunday, Trump predicted that nothing   would come of a recount in Wisconsin initiated by Green   Party presidential candidate Jill Stein and .  ’ ’   ”Hillary Clinton conceded the election when she called me just   prior to the victory speech and after the results were in.   Nothing will change,” Trump wrote. ’ ’   He continued by quoting an answer from Clinton during a   presidential debate: ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tHillary’’s debate answer on delay: ”That is horrifying. That is not the way our democracy works. Been around for 240 years. We’’ve had free   ’t’t’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tand fair elections. We’ve accepted the outcomes when we may not have liked them, and that is what must be expected of anyone standing on a  ’t’t” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tduring a general election. I, for one, am appalled that somebody that is the nominee of one of our two major parties would take that kind   ’t’t’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tof position.” Then, separately she stated, ”He said something truly horrifying . .. he refused to say that he would respect the results of   ’t’t’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tthis election. That is a direct threat to our democracy.” She then said, ”We have to accept the results and look to the future, Donald   ’t’t’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tTrump is going to be our President. We owe him an open mind and the chance to lead.” So much time and money will be spent   same result! Sad’t’t’ ’   Since winning the presidency earlier this month, Trump has made   almost no public appearances and has not yet held a press   conference. Yet the   has largely maintained his   prolific Twitter habits. ’ ”   Since Clinton’s lawyers announced Saturday that the campaign will   participate in a recount, Trump has repeatedly taken to Twitter   to  for   participating in the recount. ” ”   For its part, the Clinton campaign said it would participate   in Stein’s recount in Wisconsin and would follow if similar steps   are taken in Pennsylvania and Michigan. But campaign officials   have tamped down expectations that the recount could change the   results of the election. ” ’   In a post on Medium on Saturday, Clinton campaign general counsel   Marc Elias wrote that because of a lack of ”actionable evidence”   of foul play, the campaign was not planning on initiating a   recount on its own. He said the campaign joined Stein’’s recount   in order to ensure the results were ”fair to all sides.” ’ ’   ”The campaign is grateful to all those who have expended time and   effort to investigate various claims of abnormalities and   irregularities,” Elias wrote. ’ ’   He added: ”While that effort has not, in our view, resulted in   evidence of manipulation of results, now that a recount is   underway, we believe we have an obligation to the more than 64   million Americans who cast ballots for Hillary Clinton to   participate in ongoing proceedings to ensure that an accurate   vote count will be reported.” ’