’  ’ ”     Donald Trump’s former campaign manager again   strongly suggested on Sunday that his supporters would not   back former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney for secretary of   state. ” ”   Kellyanne Conway, one of Trump’s top advisers, told CNN’s Dana   Bash that while she hoped Romney would be a gracious   secretary of state if selected, his aggressive criticism of Trump   during the 2016 Republican primary did not sit well with the    ’s supporters. ” ’   ”It’’s just breathtaking in scope and intensity the type of   messages I have received from all over the country,” Conway said.   ”The number of people who feel betrayed to think that Governor   Romney would get the most prominent Cabinet post, after he went   so far out of his way to hurt Donald Trump  —   there was the Never   Trump movement, and then there was Mitt Romney.” ’ ’   She added: ”If   Trump chooses Mitt Romney as his   secretary of state, or whomever he chooses, that will have the   full support and backing of all of us. I respect the brilliance   and judgment and sheer instincts of   Trump to form   his Cabinet as he wishes. But I felt compelled to come forward on   behalf of the people who were weighing in.” ’ ’   Conway argued that Romney ”attacked   [Trump’’s] character.” She also noted that several of   the former governor’’s staffers were highly critical of the      and questioned whether Romney had the   appropriate   credentials to deserve the position. ’ ’   ”Has he been around the globe doing something on behalf of the   United States, of which we’’re unaware?” Conway said. ”I’’m all for   party unity, but I’’m not sure that we have to pay for that with   the secretary of state position.” ’ ”   Conway’s has gone on a    as Trump weighs several options to be his top   diplomat. ” ’   After tweeting earlier this week that she’’d received messages   from supporters voicing their displeasure with Romney, Conway   repeated to ABC’’s Martha Raddatz on Sunday that Romney ”went   out of his way” to criticize Trump. ’ ’   The former campaign manager joined  who have taken to the airwaves   with their arguments against Romney. ’ ’   Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich and Fox News host Sean Hannity   last week both voiced displeasure at reports that Trump was   considering Romney over former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani.   Though Giuliani was an early frontrunner for the post,   Trump was  concerned by potential Republican opposition   to Giuliani based on his complicated business ties abroad   and his overt public campaigning for the job. ’ ”   Some observers like former senior advisor to President Barack   Obama David Axelrod noted   campaign staffers don’t   often publicly lobby their former bosses so soon after an   election. ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tI meant ”to” box the boss in. Either way, it’’s remarkable. I wonder if  appreciates being manipulated in public like this?  ’ ’   Others like Joe Scarborough, who occasionally advises Trump,   challenged the   to stand up to his former top   aides. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tI suspect the   fan of the shows, will be hearing this first thing in the morning. Strap in.  ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tConway: Trump backers feel ”betrayed” he is considering Romney for secretary of state   ’