’  ’ ”   Theranos and its CEO Elizabeth Holmes are being sued by investors   who claim that she .    The lawsuit, filed in California, names two shareholders who   are seeking class action status. They claim that Holmes   knew when she pitched the company’s technology  —   as being   able to use a finger prick’s worth of blood to test for   diseases  —   that it didn’t work.    Theranos declined to comment on the suit.   The company is also facing a lawsuit from one of its    lawsuits  and a breach of contract lawsuit by   Walgreens.    Walgreens is looking for $140 million in damages, claiming that   Theranos misled Walgreens about how far along its     technology was when the original partnership was struck.   Walgreens, once Theranos’ biggest partner, terminated its   relationship with the . It had operated Theranos Wellness Centers,   where people could have their blood tested in the company’s   stores. ” ’   In the past year, the company has faced questions about the    of its   blood tests, been told by a   government agency that one of its labs posed “immediate jeopardy”   to patients, had CEO Holmes get banned from the  and seen partnerships   like the one with Walgreens fall through. ’ ’   In October,  all of its lab operations, pivoting to   focus solely on the company’’s miniLab technology. The pivot cut   340 positions and closed its Wellness Centers where blood tests   were performed. ”The   company is in disarray and the   value of its securities are in a freefall,” the newest suit   claims, though it doesn’’t provide a current valuation on the   shares. ’ ”   The shareholders named in the lawsuit are Robert Colman and   Hilary  .    Colman bought his stake through an investment in a Lucas Venture   Group fund, a venture capital fund.   acquired her   shares for $19 apiece on  a market for     shares. She tried to back out of the purchase   after the Wall Street Journal raised questions about the validity   of the technology.    The suit includes a table noting Theranos’ share price through   October 2015: ”