’  ’ ”   At least nine people suffered injuries Monday, officials said,   after an attacker drove into a group of pedestrians with a   vehicle on Ohio State University’s campus before using a weapon   to cut several people. ” ’  ’ ’   A university spokeswoman said in a press conference that the   campus police received an alert at about 9:52 a. m. ET that a   vehicle had gone over a curb on campus and struck pedestrians. ’ ’   A campus police officer arrived at the scene, where the assailant   had gotten out of his vehicle and begun to attack people with a   large butcher knife, Chief Craig Stone of the Ohio State campus   police, said. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Reports of more suspects are ”being checked out,” a campus police   officer told reporters, but there is no indication that the   attacker had accomplices at the time he carried out the attack. A   police official said it was clear the attack was carried out on   purpose, saying terrorism was being investigated as a possible   motive. ’ ’   ”We have to consider . .. that possibility,” Columbus Police Chief   Kimberley Jacobs said when asked whether the incident was a   terrorist attack. ’ ’   ”This car just swerved and ran into a whole group of people,” OSU   student Nicole Kreinbrink . ”All these people were running and screaming   and yelling.” ’ ’   OSU sophomore  ’ ’   ”And I saw a guy with a big knife just chasing people around.   When I saw that, I grabbed all my stuff and started running,”   Bowers said.  ’ ’  ’ ’   Conflicting reports emerged earlier as the Ohio State campus   police tweeted an alert at 9:56 a. m. of an active shooter on   campus near  the Material Science and Engineering building on   campus. The police advised students to ”Run, Hide, Fight,” which   the Department of Homeland Security  is the proper response sequence to an     situation. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Michael Drake, the president of Ohio State, said in a press   conference on Monday that the university’’s   tweet   used keywords such as ”Run, Hide, Fight” to trigger the   appropriate campus police response. ’ ’   The police  at about 11:30 a. m. lifting the      warning. It made no mention of gunfire aside from the shooting of   the suspect. The  that ”law   enforcement will continue to have a visible presence on campus”   and that all academic classes on the Columbus campus had been   canceled for the rest of the day. ’ ’   Certain buildings on the campus including Watts Hall will remain   closed ”until further notice,” the university said. ’ ’  ’