’  ’ ’     Donald Trump took to Twitter on Sunday to   complain that illegal voters cost him the popular vote in the   2016 election. ’ ’   ”In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I   won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who   voted illegally,” . ’ ’   However, a political scientist who’’s likely behind Trump’’s   assertion that ”millions” of people illegally voted said ”there   is no way” they could explain how democratic candidate Hillary   Clinton won the popular vote with a margin of more than 2. 2   million votes (). ’ ”   Trump’s  made waves a day after Clinton’s campaign said   it would join  initiated by independent   candidate Jill Stein. Stein has cited  of Democratic Party email servers as   one reason to recount votes in the swing states Michigan,   Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin, and her campaign has raised more   than $5 million to pay for legal and filing fees. ” ’   Marc Elias, the Clinton campaign’’s legal counsel, wrote in    on Saturday that while there’’s no ”actionable   evidence” of voting machine hacking or ”attempts to alter the   voting technology,” her campaign intends ”to participate in order   to ensure the process proceeds in a manner that is fair to all   sides.” ’ ’   Trump has since called Stein and Clinton’’s recount petitions a   ””. ’ ’   However, if millions of illegal ballots were cast, as Trump   believes, then the validity of his election as president would be   questionable, given that he . ’ ’   Fortunately for Trump, voting experts say his claim is   implausible. ’ ’  ’ ’   Business Insider asked the Trump campaign multiple times to   verify the source of his claim that ”millions” voted illegally,   but we did not receive a response. ’ ’   However, the figure almost certainly comes from   —   people who are   legally prohibited from voting, but presumably do so anyway  —     that Trump has  throughout his campaign,  in Cleveland, Ohio. ’ ’   The study, which was   and published in the journal   Electoral Studies, leaned on   data from a       survey run by the Cooperative   Congressional Election Studies (CCES). (The organization is   funded by National Science Foundation grants and is led by   researchers at Harvard University and Stanford University.) ’ ’   In 2008 and 2010, the CCES surveys asked respondents about their   citizenship status, and if they were registered to vote. ’ ” a   political scientist at Old Dominion University, and two   colleagues used data from these and other questions to ask how   many    —   people not born in the US, or have not yet   endured the country’s   —   might have voted in and   possibly affected the outcome of elections. ” ’   The team focused on survey responses from after the 2008   presidential election, which was  in history. The researchers   estimated that a maximum of 25. 1% of   were registered   to vote, and up to 11. 3% illegally cast a ballot. Focusing on a   population of 19. 4 million   that year, Richman and   his colleagues wrote ”the number of   voters [. ..]   could range from just over 38, 000 at the very minimum to nearly   2. 8 million at the maximum.” ’ ’   With such a wide and unreliable range, Richman and his team made   an ”adjusted” rate of verified voting at 6. 4% of all     voting. The researchers called this their ”best guess” of the   actual voting rate, based on the CCES survey data and other   studies of voting behavior. ’ ’   ”The adjusted estimate of 6. 4 percent for 2008 is quite   substantial, and would be associated with 1. 2 million     votes cast in 2008 if the weighted CCES sample is fully   representative of the   population,” the authors wrote,   noting that many votes could influence an election. ’ ’   But the numbers differ wildly from other analyses, which indicate   that   voting is extraordinarily rare; in fact, one   national investigative reporting project determined that . ’ ”   Thus, Richman and his team  —   even though they noted their   preliminary study’s major limitations  —   met heated criticism from   other researchers as popular websites  which has published  promoted the research   to conservative audiences. ” ’   John Ahlquist and Scott Gehlbach, two researchers from the   University of   tore into the study and its   conclusions . They cited the   confusing nature of the CCES survey questions, extremely small   sample size (less than 100     in 2008,   out of 32, 800 subjects) and other steep limitations of the   analysis. ’ ’   Michael Tesler, a Brown University political scientist,  that respondents whom the CCES   followed over the years showed signs of error  —   namely, reporting   being citizens one year and   2 years later, possibly   at a rate of 71%. ’ ’   While Richman and his colleagues  to these and other criticisms, three researchers   criticized his team’’s work in the same journal in July 2015.    says the initial study was ”almost certainly flawed”   and provided ”a biased estimate of the rate at which     voted in recent elections” ultimately concluding ”that the rate   of   voting in the United States is likely [zero].” ’ ’   Despite these criticisms, Richman says he stands by the work. ’ ’   ”I believe that there has surely been some     participation in the 2016 election,” Richman told Business   Insider in an email. ”The 2016 CCES will hopefully include     questions to verify the citizenship status of      . This should help get at the issues   raised by our more perceptive critics.” ’ ’  ’ ”   If there was any independent political science researcher who   could back up Trump’s victimizing claims, it’d be Richman. ” ”   But he doesn’t. ” ’   ”I don’’t think that participation has been anywhere close to the   level required to account for the entirety of Clinton’’s     popular vote margin,” Richman told Business Insider. ’ ”   Richman pointed us to  at his   blog, which   extrapolates his team’s work in 2014 to the 2016 election. ” ”   In the post, Richman lays out why it’s not plausible that     voter fraud could explain how Trump lost the popular   vote by millions of ballots: ” ’   Richman went on to write that, while it’’s plausible     contributed to Clinton’’s margin of victory, it’’s ”not at all”   plausible that   voters could explain his loss. ’ ’   ”Even if we assume that 90 percent voted for Clinton and only 10   percent for Trump, a more than fourteen percent turnout would be   necessary to account for Clinton’’s popular vote margin,” Richman   wrote. ”This is much higher than the estimates we offered. Again,   it seems too high to be plausible.” ’ ”   Business Insider sent Richman’s post to Trump’s campaign, asking   for comment, but we haven’t heard back. ”