’  ’ ”   One of   Donald Trump’s top candidates to run   the Department of Homeland Security made     comments about transgender individuals on   his radio show earlier this year. ” ”   David Clarke, the sheriff of Milwaukee County in Wisconsin, is    a contender to lead the DHS and met with Trump in   New York on Monday. Throughout Trump’s presidential campaign, he   has been one of Trump’s . ” ’   On the June 25th episode of his podcast, ”The People’’s   Sheriff,” Clarke claimed that transgender Americans have   mental disorders and painted them as one of several groups who   live a ”freakish lifestyle.” ’ ’   The sheriff cited Walt Heyer, a former transgender author   who . ’ ’   ”Folks, more evidence that transgender persons suffer from mental   disorders more than physiological disorders,” Clarke said,   introducing a segment on his show dedicated to Heyer’’s columns. ’ ’   He continued: ’ ’   Clarke continued, reading Heyer’’s  which claimed that   transgender individuals were more inclined to have ”psychiatric   diagnoses,” that transgender identities corresponded with   childhood trauma ”100% of the time,” and that such individuals   ”need psychotherapy, not access to   restrooms.” ’ ’   Though the World Health Organization  being transgender a mental illness in its   1990 International Classification of Diseases, the   organization is  eliminating this classification when it updates   its guide in 2018. Other top medical groups  their categorizations to reflect recent   studies that argue that it is not a mental   disorder.   ’ ”   In his June broadcast, the sheriff concluded that     politicians’ support for transgender individuals was a crude   political calculation aimed at earning support from such   voters. ” ’   ”We will probably not get to the proper course of treatment for   these individuals because the left, as you know, is on a   political crusade with this, looking to push any lifestyle as   mainstream in an effort to gain political power, because   they seek their vote,” Clarke said. ’ ’   He added: ”We need to push back on this, not because you or I   don’’t like transgender individuals. Because I want to make sure   they’’re getting the proper treatment before embarking on this   irreversible medical procedure, that’’s all. ’ ”   Clarke’s comments in June were far from the only time he’s   used his radio to float aggressive,     proposals. ” ’   As Mother Jones  during an episode last December, Clarke   called for anyone ”spewing jihadi rhetoric” to be   immediately arrested and detained indefinitely at Guantanamo Bay. ’ ’ ’