’’ ’Radiology has always been an area at the cutting edge of digitization. ’ ”From virtual reality to machine learning, there are ways to apply some of the biggest concepts in technology right now to what’s happening in the medical field.” ”We’ll be at the Radiological Society of North America’s conference in Chicago for the next few days, checking out all the   technology coming on the scene. ” ”Here are some of the innovations and trends we’re looking forward to seeing in action. ” ’In the near future, we might be using a virtual reality headset to see a developing fetus instead of the traditional ultrasound. ’ ”The technology, still experimental, has been used on . The 3D image is compiled using both MRI and ultrasound technology then uses an Oculus Rift 2 to get an even clearer picture of what’s happening. With the model, researchers can see the exterior of the fetus, along with inside the respiratory tract so that doctors could ideally see abnormalities.” ’’ ’’ ”We’re still learning about the effects the Zika virus has on the brain, especially in babies who contract the virus before birth. And imaging is integral to increasing that understanding and improving treatments. In new studies being presented at the RSNA conference, researchers used CT scans, MRIs, ultrasounds, and   modeling to get a better picture. ” ’Thanks to these technologies, the researchers were able to figure out a few key things, including more evidence that Zika can cause brain damage in babies with and without microcephaly, something that other .’ ”Beyond putting together better images, researchers are also trying to figure out if there’s a way we could analyze these images in a smarter way, with the help of machine learning.” ”One area where that’s being . One study released by IBM suggested that the company’s computer could better identify melanoma than dermatologists, but we’ll have to wait and see more validation before deciding the extent to which machine learning could help with skin cancer screening.” ’In the medical world, machine learning and radiology seem to be a hot combination. GE is partnering with UC San Francisco over the next three years to help doctors determine which results need more attention, . One of the projects aims to shorten the time between reading an   and giving potentially lifesaving treatment.  ’ ’’ ’Watson Health sees these imaging tools as a type of physician assistant, with the hope that it will seamlessly help the doctors do their jobs better.’ ’”Patients may never know, but the clinician certainly will,” said Anne Le Grand vice president of imaging at Watson Health . Like any other new technology, this machine learning assistance will have to prove that it works better than the way radiologists do it now. ’ ’The imaging technologies used around the world today use a lot of critical natural resources. For example, there is only so much helium (used in MRI machines)  so finding ways to conserve that element will be key.’ ’This sustainability could happen either by limiting the number of exams we perform, or by creating more sustainable machines. A review published earlier this year in the  found that ”a ’ ’Did we miss any great innovations happening in radiology? Let us know at lramsey@businessinsider. com.’