’  ’ ’   Donald Trump said during his campaign that he would, if elected   president, convince the   manufacturer Carrier not   to shutter a plant in Indiana and move over 2, 000 jobs to Mexico. ’ ’   Trump was elected, and he has evidently made good on that pledge.   Or at least some of the pledge. ’ ’   Carrier said late Tuesday that it would keep more than 1, 000 jobs   across two locations in Indiana. (Besides the Carrier plant, a   facility operated by parent United Technologies was also facing   cuts.) ’ ’   This Trump deal follows a  about what the     erroneously thought was a plant relocation to   Mexico. It was really just an altered plan by Ford to keep   manufacturing a Lincoln vehicle at a Louisville, Kentucky, plant   where the automaker wanted to increase production of a similar   SUV badged as a Ford. ’ ”   Ford wasn’t considering the production move until 2019, when the   current United Auto Workers contract is up. And no jobs would   have been lost as a result of the move, according to Ford. ” ’   These are wins of a sort for Trump, but a pattern is emerging. ’ ’Some of the Carrier and United Technologies jobs are   being saved. Some of the Lincoln production  —   around   2, 000 vehicles per month  —   is staying put in Kentucky. ’ ”   It should be fairly clear what’s going on here. United   Technologies said that it could save $65 million a year by   moving, but it has $56 billion in annual revenue, . Indiana will provide   $700, 000 in tax incentives, but adding the whole thing up is a   rounding error in terms of United Technologies’ overall business. ” ”   Trump wants to make a deal because that’s what he does  —   he’s a   deal guy. His vice president is Mike Pence, the governor   of Indiana. United Technologies keeps some workers in Indiana.   Everybody gets to look good. ” ’   But, of course, a whole bunch of jobs are still going to   Mexico: 1, 300, . The outsourcing trend remains intact. ’ ’  ’ ”   Ford didn’t even have to worry about juggling jobs. All it had to   do was not move production of a vehicle it wasn’t   planning to move for three years anyway. The Lincoln production   could also be discontinued at the Louisville plant, replaced with   production of the vehicle that Ford had wanted to build, the Ford   Escape. It’s basically the same car. ” ”   There isn’t much that changes in terms of Ford’s     thinking about sending unprofitable vehicle production to Mexico.   Ford has, after all, been operating plants in Mexico since the   1960s. ” ”   We’re talking about only two announcements here, so it may be a   stretch to call it a pattern. But if this is the way things are   going to go, Trump is going to be spending a decent amount of   time and energy negotiating deals that tweet well, but that   aren’t really what you’d call   in the grand scheme   of things. ” ”   Maybe as president he’ll up the stakes. Then again, companies   that have planned to use NAFTA to their financial advantages will   learn what works with Trump  —   give away something, but keep the   master plan intact. ”