’  ’ ”   The Federal Reserve on Wednesday supported recent data showing   some worrying trends in parts of Manhattan’s   market. ” ’   The  compiled anecdotes from contacts of the 12   regional banks, including the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.   It is not a hard data release. ’ ’   ”New York City’’s rental market has been mostly steady, except at   the high end, where the inventory has risen and rents have   drifted down,” according to the Beige Book. ’ ’   There are too many luxury apartments in the city, with more   developments still rising from the ground.  from Douglas Elliman Real Estate released last month   showed that  surged in the third quarter after   four straight periods of declines. Inventory had been falling   because developers were moving their properties from active to   shadow status to avoid extended marketing periods, the company   said. ’ ’   But this glut has given buyers more options and some more   bargaining power to push back against prices they think are   unfair. If prices continue to fall, the balance of power in the   market could shift so that it becomes a . ’ ’’ ’   ”Prices have declined at the high end of the market but remained   steady for more moderately priced units; bidding wars have become   noticeably less prevalent,” the Beige Book said. ’ ’   ”Landlord concessions have grown increasingly prevalent,   especially in Manhattan and Brooklyn,” according to the Beige   Book. Concessions, which include things like a month of free rent   and   appliances, are part of landlords’’ efforts to make   renters more willing to pay their asking prices. ’ ’   The Fed noted that rental vacancy rates in northern New Jersey   and upstate New York remained near multiyear lows, while rents   rose by about 4%   . ’ ”   On the commercial   side, the Fed noted an increase in   office availability. Cushman & Wakefield’s     report on Manhattan real estate, released in late October, showed   that vacancies rose in every submarket that the firm tracks.   Notably, there was a record amount of empty retail space along   the   strip of  as fewer companies chose to pay a premium for   that location. ”