’  ’ ’     Donald Trump has tapped retired Marine Gen. James   ”Mad Dog” Mattis for the role of defense secretary. ’ ’   Trump announced the pick  adding ”” ’ ’   Mattis is ”an excellent pick that offers an opportunity to   restore the warrior culture in DOD that’’s been undermined by this   administration,” Joe Kasper, chief of staff to Republican Rep.   Duncan Hunter of California, told Business Insider. ”Mattis is     and he’’s a sure bet to turn the Pentagon upside down   and get things done.” ’ ’   After Trump met with Mattis more than a week ago, most defense   watchers believed the retired Marine general was the top pick to   lead the Pentagon. The   has described Mattis as   ”very impressive” and said he was ”seriously considering” him for   the position. ’ ’   In an    meeting with media executives and     personalities in November, Trump ”said he believes it is time to   have someone from the military as secretary of defense,” . Other Republicans and   DC insiders also   —   though he would   require a congressional waiver to serve as defense secretary   since he has not been out of uniform for the statutorily required   seven years. ’ ’   Mattis faced plenty of competition along the way, including   retired Army Gen. Jack Keane, former Republican Sen. Jim Talent   of Missouri, and others. Keane  to serve at the Pentagon   but recommended Mattis for the position. ’ ’   A number of defense secretaries who served under President Barack   Obama have criticized Obama for ”” the Pentagon. Even Mattis   himself was forced into early retirement by the White House   because of his hawkish views on Iran,  at Foreign Policy. ’ ”   If confirmed, Mattis would oversee  and civilian personnel and face myriad   challenges, from the ongoing fights against ISIS and China’s   moves in the South China Sea to the stress on the military   imposed by sequestration. ” ’   He may also end up dealing with a North Korea armed with nuclear   weapons, and Russia is likely to test limits in Eastern Europe.   The secretary will also need to reinvigorate a  by low morale. ’ ’   The   general retired in 2013 after leading Marines for   44 years. His last post was with US Central Command, the unified   command based in Tampa, Florida, tasked with operations in Iraq,   Afghanistan, and more than two dozen other countries. ’ ’  ’ ’   Mattis is something of a legendary figure in the US military.   Looked at as a warrior among Marines and well respected by other   service members, he has been at the forefront of a number of   engagements. ’ ’   He led his battalion of Marines in the assault during the first   Gulf War in 1991 and commanded the task force charging into   Afghanistan in 2001. In 2003, as a major general, he once again   took up the task of motivating his young Marines to go into   battle,  to his troops before they   crossed the border into Iraq. ’ ’   Though he’’s beloved by troops for his straight talk and strategic   genius, he’’s dealt with some controversy outside of the military   for . He asserted in 2005 that it   was ”fun to shoot some people”  —   he said he was talking about   fundamentalists who ”slap women around” in Afghanistan for not   wearing veils. Still, the Marine commandant at the time said   Mattis was counseled and that ”he should have chosen his words   more carefully,” . ’ ’   Mattis is currently a distinguished fellow at Stanford,   conducting research and giving lectures on leadership and   strategy. He was a distinguished fellow . ’