’  ’ ’   By 2025, there will be no more diesel vehicles in Paris, Madrid,   Mexico City, or Athens, Greece. ’ ”   The four cities’ mayors, who are attending the  this week in Mexico City, have announced plans to   combat air pollution by banning diesel vehicles. ” ’   ”Mayors have already stood up to say that the climate change is   one of the greatest challenges we face,” Mayor Anne Hidalgo of   Paris . ”Today, we also stand up   to say we no longer tolerate air pollution and the health   problems and deaths it causes  —   particularly for our most   vulnerable citizens. Big problems like air pollution require bold   action, and we call on car and bus manufacturers to join us.” ’ ’   Mayors and local leaders representing 86 cities  —   including Mayor   Rahm Emanuel of Chicago, Mayor Eduardo Paes of Rio de Janeiro,   and Deputy Mayor Ai Xuefeng of Shenzhen  —   have convened at the   C40 summit to discuss plans to address climate change. ’ ”   Cities have increasingly been  since more than half of   the world’s population lives in cities, a share that is expected   to rise to 70% by 2050. That means cities also account for a   large portion of   emissions, putting them in a   powerful position to fight climate change. ” ’’ ’   At the summit, mayors discussed a new report outlining actions   cities could take that would account for 40% of the emissions   reductions necessary to keep the global temperature from rising   by more than 1. 5 degrees Celsius. To do that, the report found,   they would need to ensure that emissions peak by 2020 and then   drop dramatically. ’ ’   Removing cars is one way to achieve that. ’ ’   ”Our goal is to ultimately remove all cars from the center of   Athens in the years to come,” the mayor of Athens, Giorgos   Kaminis, said in a statement. ’ ”   Other cities have also initiated  from their centers  —   the Norwegian capital,   Oslo, plans to implement a car ban by 2019, and Brussels and   Copenhagen, Denmark, are home to Europe’s two biggest     zones. ” ’   Those efforts, Mayor Miguel Ángel Mancera of Mexico City said,   ”ease congestion in our roadways and our lungs.” ’