’  ’ ’   WASHINGTON, DC  —   The only nation to have used nuclear weapons   this century will be able to strike Seattle in four years, former   CIA Director Gen. Michael Hayden said on Wednesday. ’ ’   ”I really do think that it is very likely by the end of Mr.   Trump’’s first term the North Koreans will be able to reach   Seattle with a nuclear weapon onboard an indigenously produced   intercontinental ballistic missile,” Hayden . ’ ’   ”Now, will it be a   shot? They have technical   issues, so probably not,” Hayden said. ”But then again, what kind   of odds are you comfortable with when it comes to Pyongyang?” ’ ’  ’ ’   North Korean leader Kim Jong Un has conducted 25     tests and two nuclear tests this year. ’ ’    ’ ”   Bruce Klingner, a senior research fellow of Northeast Asia at the   Heritage Foundation and former CIA deputy division chief for   Korea, says the North Korean threat isn’t four years away  —   it’s   nearly here. ” ’   ”Hayden is a bit behind the curve on the North Korea ICBM   threat,” Klingner told Business Insider. ’ ’   ”After the December 2012 launch, the South Korean navy dredged up   off the ocean floor the stages of the North Korean missile,”   Klingner said. ”South Korean and US officials assessed the   missile had a   range, which covers a large part   of the US.” ’ ”   Fast forward to this year, on February 7, a month after North   Korea’s  the rogue   regime fired a  it claimed was carrying a   satellite for its space program. ” ”   The launch, which was largely viewed as a front for testing an   intercontinental ballistic missile, was not only successful but   also showcased the North’s technological advancements. ” ’   ”After the February 2016 launch, experts assessed it could have a   range of 13, 000 km, covering the entire US,” Klingner said, which   makes the Seattle range estimate ”outdated,” Klingner added. ’ ’   According to Klingner, even the rocket with a range of 10, 000 km   would compromise approximately 120 million people in the US. ’ ’  ’ ’   In 2015, US commanders of US Forces Korea, Pacific Command, and   North American Aerospace Defense Command publicly assessed that   Pyongyang was able to strike to the US with a nuclear weapon. ’