’  ’ ’   Minnesota Rep. Keith Ellison responded Thursday to criticism over   past comments he made about Israel and his prior association with   a longtime leader of the Nation of Islam who  and   statements. ’ ’   In a  on Thursday afternoon, Ellison called   efforts to resurface the comments the work of ”political   opponents” using an ”old   smear campaign” to ”distort”   his record. ’ ’   Ellison further rejected calls of bigotry and   and   pointed to his record as a state legislator and member of   Congress as evidence of his work to eliminate hate crimes,   ”confront Holocaust denial,” and ”combat  .” ’ ’   ”I have always lived a politics defined by respecting   differences, rejecting all forms of racism and ” he   wrote. ”A politics based on inclusion, and diverse communities   organizing together for economic justice for everyone.” ’ ’   Ellison is  for chair of the Democratic   National Committee. He has received endorsements from Sens.   Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren as well as Senate Minority   Leader Chuck Schumer and other major party figures. ’ ”   Ellison’s Medium post came hours after CNN reporter Andrew   Kaczynski  reviewing Ellison’s writings and   public statements from the late 1980s through the 1990s. ” ’   Kaczynski reported that the investigation revealed Ellison’’s   ”  involvement in the Nation of Islam and his repeated   defense of [leader Louis] Farrakhan and other radical black   leaders against accusations of   in columns and   statements to the press.” The investigation did not find any   examples of   by Ellison. ’ ’   In addition, the   League published a scathing   statement on Thursday after a 2010 speech resurfaced in which   Ellison asked why US foreign policy in the Middle East is   ”governed by what is good or bad” for Israel. Jonathan   Greenblatt, the CEO of the ADL, called the comments  and said they ”raise   the specter of   stereotypes about Jewish control of our   government.” ’ ’   Ellison also published  saying he is a ”strong   supporter of the Jewish state, voting for more than $27 billion   in aid to Israel” and noting his commitment to Israeli security   and ”striving for a   solution.” Ellison said in the   letter that the audio was ”selectively edited” and that he was   responding to a question about how Americans with roots in the   Middle East ”could engage in the political process in a more   effective way.” ’ ”   The CNN investigation also  that Ellison wrote while attending   the University of Minnesota Law School in the late ’80s. ” ’   In  Ellison defended the right of the university’’s   Africana Student Cultural Center to invite Kwame Ture, also known   as Stokely Carmichael,  who is often remembered for   coining the phrase ”black power,” to speak at the university.   Ellison chastised the university president for initially   censuring the group for inviting Ture, who stirred controversy at   the university after he suggested in a speech that ”the Zionists   joined with the Nazis in murdering Jews, so they would flee to   Palestine.” ’ ’   In another column, Ellison  ”foists the burden of brutal   white savagery” on white students and the white working class,   and suggested that reparations would be a fairer way for America   to atone for slavery and Jim Crow laws. ’ ’   The CNN investigation also surfaced an   written by Ellison   in 1995 in which he called Farrakhan ”” and ”not an  .” The     was in response to a cartoon in The Star Tribune that said   the only role models for black children are ”a wife beater and an    ” and depicting O. J. Simpson and Farrakhan. Ellison   cited widespread approval of Farrakhan among     and defended him as having ”cleaned up, taught, and uplifted”   many in the   community. ’ ’   CNN found other examples of Ellison defending Farrakhan in   writing. ’ ’  ’ ’   Ellison was primarily associated with the Nation of Islam through   the Million Man March,  held on the National Mall   in Washington, DC, in 1995, which was organized by Farrakhan and   numerous civil rights groups. Ellison helped organize the   Minnesota delegation to the March. ’ ’   In his post on Medium, Ellison said that he saw the march as ”a   positive effort” and hoped it ”would promote change in our   communities.” But he also apologized for his written defenses of   Farrakhan, noting that he ”glossed over the hurtful and divisive   language” used by Farrakhan against other communities. ’ ’   ”In my effort to pursue justice for the     community, I neglected to scrutinize the words of those like   Khalid Muhammed and Farrakhan who mixed a message of     empowerment with scapegoating of other   communities,” he wrote. ’ ’   Ellison has repudiated his association with the Nation of Islam   and Farrakhan, and denounced their views multiple times in the   past, including  in 2006. ’