’  ’ ’   Both on the field and off, Von Miller is everywhere.  ’ ”   The    Denver Broncos linebacker and reigning Super Bowl   MVP currently leads the NFL in sacks (12. 5) and in 90 career   games he’s logged 85 sacks.  Miller right now   tops the league in quarterback pressures (with 60) and is   graded as a   edge rusher. ” ”   By just about every metric, Miller is the best defensive player   in football (sorry, JJ Watt). If this isn’t the year he wins   Defensive Player of the Year, it still feels like a safe   bet that he will win the award at some point in the future.   And so long as Miller is anchoring the Broncos defense, the team   will be a threat to anyone in the league.  ” ”   Off the field, meanwhile, Miller seems to have swiftly taken   over for former teammate Peyton Manning as the most   marketable player not just in football, but perhaps in all of   sports. If you have turned on your TV this year, you have no   doubt caught a glimpse of a bespectacled Miller, grinning   for one reason or another. Here he is in an Old Spice commercial,   there he is rocking Beats By Dre. He’s on the cover of   Madden ’17, sponsored by Champs Sports, and Adidas, and  —     proving he’s more than just a spokesman  —   he’s also an investor   in and strategist for a new, healthy beef jerky startup, Chef’s   Cut. ” ”   Oh, and after he tormented Cam Newton to secure the   Lombardi Trophy, he signed a   $114. 5 million   contact with the Broncos over the offseason, which   included $70 million in guaranteed money. Life for Von   Miller, it’s safe to say, is going pretty well. ” ”   But it wasn’t always. ” ’  ’ ”   It’s easy to forget now, but for a moment in 2013 Miller   was something of a liability. He was always supremely   talented on the field  —   the no. 2 pick in the 2011 Draft, with 30   sacks in his first two years  —   but issues off the field   threatened to put his career in jeopardy. He was suspended four   games for violating the league’s substance abuse policy, and   around the same time  after failing to appear in court for a prior   traffic violation. ” ’   Looking back on it today, Miller said during these lower   moments he realized that his opportunity in the NFL was too big     —   and too short  —   to squander.  ’ ’   ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”I’’ve had my ups and downs, and when I was going through that   phase I told myself that if I was ever presented with these   opportunities I was going to take full advantage of them,” he   said. ”I have energy. That’s the key. Energy really shows you how   involved that you are with whatever it is that you’re doing.   Everything I’m doing I like to present a lot of energy because   this is a true blessing.” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’