’  ’ ’   US   Donald Trump  over the phone Friday, a   diplomatic move that seems to have broken many rules about   how phone calls between world leaders get made.  ’ ”   Though Trump is a highly unusual    —   having never   held elected office  —   there’s a normal procedure in place for   these types of phone calls since Rutherford B. Hayes first    in the White House in 1877. Everything   is meticulously planned to leave very little to chance. ” ”   When President Barack Obama calls other world leaders, for   instance, his aides bring him a National Security Council dossier   that contains a complete intelligence portrait of the person with   whom he’s about to get on the phone. The dossier includes   everything from the leader’s personality and health to   information about their children and spouses  —   even tidbits like   whether the person likes jokes or small talk,  reported in 2014.  ” ’   ” ’ ’  ’ ’   Trump’’s call on Friday was directly at odds with Washington’’s   ”” policy  —   in place since 1979  —   which maintains   that Taiwan, though   is a province of the   Chinese communist government based in Beijing. The White House   was not aware of the call until after it occurred, an   administration official told Business Insider.  ’ ’   And Trump has made a few other calls since winning the presidency   that have been at some odds with previous US policy. Pakistan,   for instance, said its leader  during a chat with Trump, a move that could   potentially alienate India. And Trump also spoke with the leader   of Kazakhstan, who has been a   ruler over the   country. ’ ’  ’ ’   Yet it seems unlikely in the immediate aftermath that   Friday’’s Trump call will permanently   affect   relations, as China’’s foreign   minister,  referred to the call as   a ”” by Taiwanese officials. ’ ’   And, as Yahoo reported, these calls can get a whole lot messier.   President George W. Bush often had the most difficult time on   calls with Hu Jintao, the former Chinese leader. ’ ’   ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’