’  ’ ” Calif. (Reuters)   A fire during a party in   a warehouse that housed artists’ studios in    California killed at least nine people and left some 25 missing,   and authorities said on Saturday they were preparing for a jump   in the death toll. ” ”   The blaze started at about 11:30 p. m. on Friday in the     warehouse in the city’s Fruitvale district, a mostly Latino area   that is also home to many artists living and working in converted   warehouse lofts. ” ’   Fire officials have not yet determined how the fire started or an   exact number of fatalities, said  Fire Chief   Teresa Deloach Reed, who called it the worst     fire she had seen in her career. ’ ’   ”It’’s just so hard to accept that some really wonderful people’’s   lives got cut short,” said artist and activist Jenny Yang, 34,   waiting for news of missing friends at Eli’’s, an   bar that opened early as a gathering spot. ’ ’   Video footage posted on social media showed flames shooting from   the structure, which was adorned with elaborate graffiti and   colorful murals, as fire vehicles pumped plumes of water and   heavy smoke engulfed the neighborhood. ’ ’   The roof of the warehouse collapsed during the fire, complicating   efforts to recover bodies and investigate the blaze, she said at   a press briefing. ’ ’   “There is a large majority of that building that has not been   searched,” Reed said, pointing out that some of the 25 missing   people may be among the nine confirmed victims. ’ ’   ”We are hoping that the number nine is what there is and that   there are no more,” the fire chief said, referring to the number   of known fatalities. ’ ’   Still, authorities were preparing to deal with ”several dozen   fatalities,” said Sergeant Ray Kelly, a spokesman for the Alameda   County Sheriff’s Office. ’ ’   “The roof has collapsed down onto the second floor, so we have to   literally go in there piece by piece and move wood and timbers   and debris in order to even get an assessment,” he said. ’ ’   The death toll was expected to rise as authorities entered the   building, Kelly said. ’ ’   Some of those who were missing may have brought themselves to the   hospital, Reed said, adding she did not know how many people were   at the party or how many lived on the premises. ’ ’   An arson team has joined the investigation, although there is no   immediate evidence that the fire was deliberating set, Reed said. ’ ’  ’ ’   A Facebook event page showed 176 people planned to attend the   party, which featured a performance by the electronic music act   Golden Donna. ’ ’   Parents and others shared contact information on the page and   asked anyone with information about the missing to call. ”ANY   information please!” wrote a woman looking for her son. ’ ’   At a sheriff’s station not far from the fire, about a dozen   people were waiting on Saturday for updates from authorities. ’ ’   “I don’t have high hopes,” said a woman who had four friends   among the missing, declining to give her name. “We’ve just spent   the night calling hospitals and listening to police scanners. ” ’ ’   The warehouse housed makeshift artist studios carved out with   curtains and other partitions, the fire chief said. The interior   was cluttered with ”a flea market of items,” she said. There was   no evidence of any smoke detectors in the building. ’ ’   The structure had only a single point of entry or exit from the   second floor, where most of the dead were found, the chief said.   A makeshift staircase appeared to be constructed from pallets. ’ ’   ”It’’s the worst case scenario we feared because it’’s an older   warehouse,” Doug, a man who only gave his first name, said as he   waited for news of people who may have been inside.  ’ ’   (Additional reporting by Letitia Stein in Tampa, Florida, and   David Bailey in Minneapolis; Writing by Frank McGurty; Editing by   Alistair Bell and Mary Milliken) ’