’  ’ ’   Consumer Reports just handed down a    review of the   Tesla Model X, calling the   SUV that launched last   year ”.” ’ ”   On balance, Consumer Reports appreciated the Model X for its   speed and handling, but found things to dislike about some of the   vehicle’s more complicated aspects. ” ”   Tesla responded to the review by saying the company has spent   almost a year dealing with early Model X production issues  —   and   noting that Model X owners are overwhelmingly delighted by their   vehicles. For the record, Business Insider’s Ben Zhang and I were    when we experienced it   (briefly) in March. ” ”   The Consumer Reports review set off a flurry of fretting about   Tesla  —   nothing out of the ordinary, as every time negative news   about the company’s cars hits, concerns arise about whether Tesla   can really grow as big and as rapidly as CEO Elon Musk wants it   to, achieving 500, 000 in annual deliveries by 2018. ” ’   The key question is always the same: Is demand for   Teslas really out there? ’ ”   This is an easy question to answer. There’s probably more demand   for Tesla vehicles than would be satisfied even if Musk’s goal of   half a million cars was met. ” ”   The bottom line is that Tesla will never have trouble selling its   cars, at least not until it cranks up production to the same   levels of other major global automakers. For the time being,   Tesla’s biggest challenge remains managing the demand it   can almost effortlessly create. ” ’   Musk has addressed this challenge often. When the Model 3     vehicle  —   scheduled to arrive in late 2017, priced at   around $30, 000 after tax credits  —   was unveiled earlier this   year, Tesla swiftly racked up almost 400, 0oo advance reservations   at $1, 000 a pop. ’ ’  ’ ’   Musk later reminded analysts that all the company did was post a   few tweets and   the unveiling event in Los Angeles. ’ ”   Let’s be perfectly clear: This is one of the largest and most   important happenings in the history of the automobile industry.   In over a century, no carmaker has even come close to witnessing   so much demand for an unavailable vehicle. A General Motors or   Toyota would kill to have such a stunning amount of enthusiasm,   backed up by cash money, for a new car or truck. But it can’t   kill, so it spends billions on marketing and advertising. ” ”   Tesla, for all practical purposes, spends zero on marketing and   advertising  —   although Musk, in a spirit of charity, says that   someday it will, because the media requires advertising spending   to stay alive. The company sends emails, holds customer events,   has a small but intrepid communications team, and lets Musk do   his thing on Twitter. That’s it. ” ”   And that’s been it for pretty much Tesla’s entire history. The   carmaker has gone from delivering no vehicles to delivering close   to 100, 000 in 2016 without committing a red cent to stoking   demand. During that same period, Ford and General Motors spent   something like a combined $6 billion on advertising  —   in   the US alone. ” ’   They sold a lot more cars than Tesla during that period, and kept   the lights on and the martinis flowing at numerous ad agencies.   But their cost per sale in terms of marketing was basically 100%   higher. ’ ’   Musk is already the  and Tesla sales   operations have to be considered the most efficient that the auto   industry has ever seen. Other car companies have enviable sales   and profits based on limited obvious advertising spending.   Ferrari leaps to mind, as demand for its cars, by design, always   outpaces supply  —   and the cars all sell for well over $100, 000. ’ ’  ’ ”   But Ferrari also spends something like half a billion dollars   annually on its Formula One racing team  —   the Italian automaker’s   primary form of advertising. ” ’   Against the backdrop of this sort of    yearly   cash burn to generate profitable demand, raising concerns about   whether Tesla is about to see an exodus of interest in its   vehicles simply because Consumer Reports has some complaints   about the Model X is kind of insane. ’ ”   I’m not even sure it would be sensible to calculate the return   Tesla might theoretically get on every $1 in incremental ad   spending. Such an effort might cause a rupture in reality because   it would be astonishingly higher  —   considering Tesla’s scale of   production  —   than any carmaker’s, ever, in human history. ” ”   None of this means Tesla’s stratospheric market cap of about $30   billion is justified, nor should it reassure any Tesla investors,   analysts, or observers that the company will be able to deftly   surmount the many, many hurdles it faces in the future as it   transitions from being a niche Silicon Valley luxury     maker to a truly major force in the global auto industry. ” ’   We should also look skeptically at the overall     market, which represents 1% of vehicle sales worldwide. Assuming   that Tesla demand is the same as   demand is a   gigantic mistake that many otherwise sensible major automakers   are making. (Not that Musk is discouraged  —   far from worrying   about all the   Tesla killers aiming to take him out,   he’’s delighted that more automakers are taking up the ”electric”   banner.) ’ ’  ’ ”   But no one can scoff at Tesla’s 375, 000 preorders for the Model   3. And it’s far from clear that those preorders are the limit for   an affordable   EV. My feeling is that Tesla could sell   a million vehicles if it committed to that scale of manufacturing    —   no easy task, and one that the company might not be able to   manage on its own  —   and have them on the world’s roads over the   next decade. ” ’   That figure has, of course, been criticized. Will all those   people make good on their commitment to buy a Model 3? ’ ”   It doesn’t matter. If Tesla converts only one of every two   preorders into a sale, it would still be an astounding business   accomplishment. The Tesla naysayers who reliably fixate on the   noisy negative news around the company would be wise to more   closely monitor the salient signals. ” ’   It boils down to this: There is currently more demand for Tesla   vehicles than could be satisfied with more than triple   its   production levels. For one car. That no one has   even   yet. ’ ’   It could be decades before Tesla has anything that even remotely   resembles a sales problem. Get used to it. ’