’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   And when it comes to where affluent travelers want to stay when   they vacation, it seems that   hotel rooms are out,   and authentic flavors are in.  ’ ’   ”We see     hotels increasing on   the consumer wish list and in fact, are seeing a more than 30%   spike in bookings for these type of hotels in the US for 2017,”   said  ’ ”   Travelers want to sample a destination’s food, take in its art   scene, and go out where the locals do. And with the rise of   Airbnb  —   which  travel   Trips feature in November  —     travelers in the know can do this with ease. ans to add Flights and Services in the near future. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Of course, what exactly constitutes an authentic experience is   difficult to pin down, and people who come from the same   place might disagree on what cuisine or landmark most   authentically represents a destination. As Adam Dennett and   Hanqun Song  for The Conversation, ”One can argue that an   ’’authentic tourism experience’’ is a contradiction in terms. When   places or experiences are discovered and populated by tourists,   they ultimately change by the demands of tourists themselves and   the economic opportunity this presents to providers.” ’ ’   The hospitality industry has responded to this shift in   perspective in varied ways. Over the last decade, many   hospitality companies  launched or acquired   brands that   are great at capturing local flavors (InterContinental Hotels   Group acquired Kimpton Hotels in 2014, for example, and Marriott   launched the Autograph Collection in 2010). ’ ’   Other hotels are focusing on redefining themselves as lifestyle   brands that prioritize culture and design, and as places where   travelers can completely customize their own experience. ’ ’   To do this, hotels might pay an Instagram ”influencer” to visit   and post filtered photos of a property so that their large   audiences can see what kinds of experiences they can have there.   They might hire food trucks to serve local fare certain days of   the week, or incorporate craft beers into the beverage   program.  ’ ’  ’ ’   In September, Standard International  —   the company behind the   trendy Standard hotels in Los Angeles, Miami, and New York  —       ’ ’  ’ ’   Club Med, the   chain founded in 1950, continues to   invest in resorts in emerging markets, like ski mountains in   China and Japan, that are not yet popular with mainstream   travelers. The brand has also introduced the ability to have a     virtual tour of each property so travelers can   experience it before they book. ’ ”   In April, Hilton’s Conrad Hotels hired former Conde Nast Traveler   Executive Editor Peter Jon Lindberg as the brand’s director of   inspiration. Lindberg works with concierges across Conrad’s 28   properties to build out itineraries lasting one, three, or five   hours. ” ”   The goal is to get Conrad guests to see the destination as the   locals do. Lindberg says that food experiences  —   whether that’s   an outing to a local market or a beachside grill  —   are always   extremely popular with guests. ” ’  only   here,  ’ ’  ’