’  ’ ’     Donald Trump has placed himself in staunch    by  and threatening to . But there’s one area in which the two   sides agree: both oppose the   Partnership. ’ ’   In a recent YouTube video about his plans for his  in office, Trump promised to  from the TPP, which would have   been the largest regional trade deal in history. And some   environmentalists suggest that killing the TPP   could have a small silver lining for the climate. ’ ”   Opposition to free trade agreements was a centerpiece of   Trump’s campaign  —   he often claimed that deals like the   TPP and NAFTA hurt American workers by sending manufacturing jobs   overseas where labor is cheaper. He attacked Hillary Clinton for   her initial support of the TPP, and suggested the North American   Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) was “the single worst trade deal   ever approved in this country” (most trade experts disagree with   this claim). According to a memo that Trump’s transition team    he also plans to consider   formally withdrawing from NAFTA within his initial 200 days. ” ’   Free trade agreements have traditionally been embraced by   Republicans, since they reflect the principles of     capitalism. Economists also generally agree that trade deals   lead to overall economic growth, and give American consumers   access to more goods and services at lower prices. ’ ’  ’ ’   The TPP would establish new terms for investment and trade   between the US and 11 other countries, including Japan,   Singapore, Vietnam, Mexico and Canada. China is not included   in the deal, since the TPP is meant to connect other   countries as a way to fortify them against China’s growing global   power. ’ ”   Environmentalists’   arguments are less about jobs   and more about the incentives the deal would create for   fossil fuel companies and the animal agriculture   industry. It now seems the TPP is dead, and Kyle Ash,   Greenpeace’s senior legislative representative, tells Business   Insider that’s for the best. ” ’   “In practice, trade deals are about opening up borders so big   companies can profit from larger markets,” says Ash. Corporations   that produce and sell fossil fuels are included in that list. ’ ’   “To a huge degree the trade negotiations have refused to discuss   climate impacts,” he says. ’ ’   Those impacts can be separated into three main categories. First,   environmentalists say, trade agreements expand the global market   for fossil fuels, which then encourages oil, gas and coal   companies to extract and burn more fuel.  ’ ”   That’s especially true for natural gas producers. The Department   of Energy must generally authorize any gas exports before   they can proceed, but a clause added to the Natural Gas Act   in 1992 requires the department to  to   countries that have free trade agreements with the US.   The TPP would have extended that privilege to many new   countries, giving gas companies more incentive to engage in   fracking and other forms of extraction. ” ’  ’ ’   Second, because the US subsidizes farmers who produce meat and   grow crops like corn and soy that are used as animal feed,   expanding free trade would put the US in a competitive position   to export beef and pork. ’ ’   Increasing meat production would accelerate climate change,   since animal agriculture has been found to  of all greenhouse gas   emissions. Methane, a common agricultural byproduct, has been   found to accelerate global warming . ’ ’   Third, both NAFTA and the TPP establish provisions   for corporations or investors to settle their disputes with   states in a  outside the traditional legal   system. In practice, that gives a foreign corporation the   right to sue the US for creating regulations that hurt its   potential profits  —   and the case would never be heard in US   courts. ’ ”   “They have this idea that you can create a court where only the   investors have access,” Ash says. “There’s no public recourse. ” ” ’   Environmental advocates suggest that this dispute settlement   system allows companies to challenge environmental regulations   that hurt their business. And indeed, that’s currently happening   with the Keystone XL pipeline, which President Obama   . TransCanada, the company behind the   pipeline, has filed a  against the US for not   allowing the pipeline to move forward. They can do that because   of arbitration provisions established by NAFTA. ’ ’   Ash complains that US trade representatives sometimes   attempt to reassure critics of this dispute settlement   framework by reminding them that the US has never lost   a case. But we could very well lose to TransCanada, Ash   says. ’ ’  ’ ’   Finally, environmentalists highlight a symbolic point about the   TPP: It never once mentions climate change. Ash says the WTO has   claimed it doesn’t want to get involved in climate   discussions, and that trade negotiations have also historically   steered clear of the subject. But especially in light of the   international commitment made in the Paris agreement,   environmentalists were furious that the issue wasn’t   acknowledged. ’ ’   “It is ridiculous that in 2015, twelve of the world’s nations   would construct a trade deal of this magnitude and not even   consider the effects of climate change on industries like   agriculture or fishing, or ways to prevent worsening global   warming through our own economic activities,” Jamie Rappaport   Clark, President and CEO of Defenders of Wildlife, wrote in a   . ’ ’   Ash says he was glad Trump’s campaign prompted more discussion   about free trade agreements in general. “If we don’t have such a   conversation, we’ll probably continue to have this problem,” he   says.  ’ ’   But there are counterpoints to these environmental   objections to free trade. Joshua Meltzer, a senior fellow at   the Brookings Institution’s Global Economy and Development   program, says that the TPP would still be a positive step   for the environment, since it could lower tariffs on some     products. Plus, he says, it adds some   new clarifications about what kinds of dispute claims   corporations can file, and actually acknowledged the environment   a little more than NAFTA did. ’ ’   In response to the argument that free trade agreements encourage   more fossil fuels production and animal agriculture, Meltzer says   other countries will simply satisfy their demand for coal or   beef another way if they can’t import those goods. He cites Japan   as an example, since the country is interested in importing both   meat and gas from the US. Without the TPP, he says, Japan will   likely raise its own beef  —   and its agricultural processes could   be less energy efficient than those of the US. And though   natural gas certainly isn’t the answer to our climate problems,   he says, it’s at least significantly cleaner than other fossil   fuels. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Providing Japan access to cheaper natural gas is good because   the alternative is they’’re just going to burn more coal and oil,”   he says. ’ ’ also argues that free trade can help   reduce global emissions in the long run by   improving economic growth and increasing access to new   technologies. ’ ”   Meltzer acknowledges, however, that there’s a lot more free   trade agreements could and probably should do to protect the   environment. They could further reduce tariffs on     goods to make them more widely available and   affordable, or could add language outlining subsidies for     outcomes like emissions reductions or the use of   renewable energy sources. They could even impose standards around   energy efficiency. ” ’   But based on Trump’s current environmental stance, it’s unlikely   that these types of provisions will get incorporated   into whatever new trade deals  —  if any  —   the   new administration negotiates. ’ ”   “My concern with the Trump administration would be that you’re   going to end up with a vastly inferior outcome than what we’ve   got at the moment,” Meltzer says. ”