Good morning.  Here’s what you need to know: • A Times investigation reveals how Russia aimed the perfect weapon at the U. S. presidential election: cyberattacks honed in elections elsewhere. Intelligence officials believe an operation to collect information evolved into an effort to harm one candidate, Hillary Clinton, and tip the election to her opponent, Donald J. Trump. Above, the Democratic National Convention’s hacked server on a table in the organization’s basement, next to a reminder of a past breach: a filing cabinet jimmied in the Watergate burglary of its offices in 1972. _____ • Mr.  Trump is lining up veteran members of the Republican foreign policy establishment to endorse his choice for secretary of state, Rex W. Tillerson. With Mr. Tillerson as chief executive, Exxon Mobil clashed with China and befriended Vietnam over disputed territory in the South China Sea. Mr. Trump, above at Trump Tower on Tuesday, also selected Rick Perry, the former Texas governor, to lead the Energy Department, placing him in charge the country’s aging nuclear arsenal. Here’s the latest on the transition. _____ • Jobs, jobs and more jobs. That will be the   issue when Mr. Trump holds a summit with some of America’s tech leaders, including Elon Musk of Tesla, above, Timothy D. Cook of Apple and Jeff Bezos of Amazon. The tech community, which was largely averse to Mr. Trump’s campaign, may be asked to spread its wealth beyond places like Silicon Valley and Seattle. And the Federal Reserve is expected to give the American economy a vote of confidence, raising interest rates slightly for the first time in a year. Our analyst cautions that Mr. Trump’s promised stimulus could set off a round of rapid rate increases to stave off inflation. _____ • Russia, Turkey and Syrian rebel groups reached an agreement for rebels to leave their last pockets of territory in the ravaged city of Aleppo. Evacuations were expected to begin shortly, leaving the city fully in the hands of government forces, a definitive victory. But there was confusion over whether the deal would assure safe passage for civilians, who the U. N. said had been shot in the streets by the score. _____ • In Indonesia, the Christian governor of Jakarta, at the start of his trial on blasphemy charges, tearfully denied that he had meant to insult Islam. Critics say the case threatens Indonesia’s reputation as a model for religious freedom and democracy in the region. _____ • A child sex abuse scandal is exploding through British soccer. Since Andrew Woodward, above, became the first professional player in Britain to go public with his account of repeated rapes by his childhood coach, at least 20 former players have come forward. The police are looking into the possibility of hundreds of victims at 98 soccer clubs, from the amateur level to the Premier League. • India’s demonetization crisis has catapulted millions of small and   into a cashless economy, with the country’s leading electronic money service now reporting a half a million new customers each day. • Japan’s Asahi will pay $7. 8 billion to   InBev for a group of some of the most popular beers in Central and Eastern Europe. • A Southern California   Apeel, has created an imperceptible, edible coating for fruits and vegetables that extends shelf life and could bring sweeping changes to the produce industry and grocery aisles. • And don’t view retirement as a light at the end of a career tunnel, our personal finance writer warns. He offers a few tips to rearrange your work life. • Wall Street stocks are up. Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • More than 8, 000 people gathered in Nanjing for China’s third annual national memorial day for the hundreds of thousands of victims of the Japanese invasion in 1937. [Xinhua] • South Korean lawmakers will question medical staff members over President Park  ’s whereabouts directly after a deadly 2014 ferry disaster. [Reuters] • Communist rebels in the Philippines, the National Democratic Front, said they would sign a formal   if President Rodrigo Duterte agreed to release political prisoners. [Manila Times] • Malaysia’s Federal Court rejected a final appeal by the former opposition leader Anwar Ibrahim to overturn a   jail term for sodomy. [Malaysiakini] • Anastasia Lin, a Canadian who was barred from the 2015 Miss World competition in China because of her criticism of the Chinese government, has been ordered by pageant organizers not to speak publicly during this year’s finals, now underway in Washington. [The New York Times] • Mexico’s 17, 063 homicides by the end of October was the country’s highest   tally since 2012, raising fears of a return to   warfare among criminal gangs. [The New York Times] • A review of data from 151 countries found wide gaps in education among followers of the world’s major religions. [The New York Times] • Smuggled TV shows, movies and radio programs are helping North Koreans see the outside world, and planting seeds of doubt about their government, a prominent author argues. • Satellite images provide a picture of how the world’s lakes and rivers have been altered over the past three decades by drought and global warming. • Some road trip. A     trip through six African countries with five children. What could go wrong? •  “Rogue One: A Star Wars Story,” opens this week in Asia and the U. S. with projections of one of the biggest December debuts. Here’s our   review. We told you last week about a fight in Canada over a proposed official bird, the gray jay. Canadians have also sparred over whether poutine (fries topped with cheese curds and gravy) should beat out maple syrup as their most representative food (no). In some places, trademark foods are not so  . Many Britons consider chicken tikka masala, a colonial adaptation featuring a bright orange sauce, as their national dish  —   more so than fish and chips. The concoction, one official said, “is a perfect illustration of the way Britain absorbs and adapts external influences. ” In other places, there’s no question about the winner. For example, New Mexico reveres the local chile. It’s nowhere near as hot as peppers in China, India or the Caribbean, but it is perhaps the most consistent ingredient in the state’s dishes. Lawmakers in the late ’90s declared the state’s official question to be “Red or green?” As in: Which variety of chile sauce do you want? One answer plays no favorites. Order “Christmas,” and you’ll get both. Can’t handle the heat? Reach for a glass of milk, which neutralizes the capsaicin that makes your taste buds sting. It’s also the official beverage of 21 states. Anna Holland contributed reporting. _____ Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings. What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes. com.