’  ’ ’   WASHINGTON (Reuters)   Washington police said on Sunday they   detained a man wielding an assault rifle who entered a pizza   restaurant that was the target of fake news reports it was   operating a child abuse ring led by Democratic presidential   candidate Hillary Clinton and her top campaign aide. ’ ”   An unidentified    man was being held for questioning   after police were called to the Comet Ping Pong restaurant in   Washington near the Maryland border, said Aquita Brown, a   spokeswoman for the Metropolitan Police Department in the   nation’s capital. ” ’   Brown said no shots were fired and there were no injuries. ’ ’   A Reuters witness at the restaurant with his    child   said it was crowded when the gunman entered, with many families   dining. ’ ’   It was unclear whether the man was aware of the internet postings   about Comet. Police said there was no active investigation of   child abuse allegations there. ’ ’’ ”   Last month, various media outlets, including the Washington Post   and New York Times, reported on internet postings that had   sparked death threats against the owner of the restaurant. The   attack on Comet was considered an example of how fake news   reports that proliferated during the election year impacted   people’s lives. ” ’   The police department said in a statement that it is ”monitoring   the situation and aware of general threats being made against   this establishment.”  ’ ’   ”We’ve directed the staff to notify MPD should they receive   specific threats or have concerns about their safety.” ’ ’   The Reuters witness who was inside Comet at around 3 p. m. ET said   he was paying his bill when he saw a man entering the   restaurant’’s front door. ”It appeared to us he had a long rifle   with him. We scattered,” he said. ’ ’   The restaurant began to empty and some staff also exited,   according to the witness. ’ ’   A police department tweet later stated, ”Suspect armed     rifle taken into custody.” ’ ’     ’ ’   (Reporting By Richard Cowan; Editing by Mary Milliken) ’