’  ’ ’   The trial of a former South Carolina police officer accused of   murdering an unarmed black motorist was declared a mistrial   on Monday, after the judge confirmed the jury was unable to reach   a verdict. ’ ’   Michael Slager is facing a maximum of life in prison for his role   in the 2015 killing of Walter Scott, whose death reignited a   national debate about police violence against minorities. The   jury was also allowed to consider a lesser charge of   manslaughter, which carries a maximum sentence of 30 years. ’ ’   The jury deliberated for more than 22 hours over the   course of four days, but on Monday afternoon informed Judge   Clifton Newman that they were unable to reach a consensus. ’ ’   ”We as the jury regret to inform the court that despite the best   efforts of all members, we are unable to come to a unanimous   decision,” the jury said in a note to Newman. ’ ’  ’ ”   The decision came as a disappointment for the Scott family and   prosecutors, who had argued throughout the trial that Slager   showed evidence of malice during the incident that resulted   in Scott’s death, a requirement for a murder charge. They   repeatedly played the    of the shooting for the jurors, showing the   North Charleston patrolman shooting at Scott eight times as Scott   ran away from the patrolman, hitting him with five   bullets. By the time Slager, who is white, fired his first   shot, Scott was about 17 feet away from him. ” ’   But Slager testified last week that before the bystander,   Feidin Santana, started recording, Scott had   wrested his Taser away and tried to use it on him, putting   the officer in ”” for his safety. Santana denied Slager’’s account. ’ ’  ’ ”   Meanwhile, Slager’s attorney, Andrew Savage, argued the media   were trying to make Slager a scapegoat for other racially   charged police killings across the country, referencing   the deaths of  in Baton Rouge, Louisiana,  in Milwaukee, and  in New York City. ” ’   ”What happens when the media does this is they mislead the   public,” Savage said during his closing statement last week.   ”They have a narrative of what happened and because of what   they’’ve been told they have certain expectations.” ’ ’   ”This is not heat of passion,” he said, citing one of the   criteria for manslaughter. ”This is a law enforcement officer   carrying out his duties.” ’ ”   Prosecutors also accused Slager of attempting to stage the crime   scene  —   after shooting Scott, Slager can be seen in the video   picking up his Taser and dropping it closer to Scott’s lifeless,   handcuffed body. Slager said he was following protocol by   accounting for his weapons. ” ’   The 12 jurors  —      —   periodically communicated to the judge   through notes as they deliberated, and indicated on Friday   they were having trouble reaching a consensus. After another   round of deliberation, a juror admitted he was . ’ ’   ”We all struggle with the death of a man and all that has been   put before us. I still cannot without a reasonable doubt convict   the defendant,” the juror wrote in the note to Newman. ”At the   same time, my heart does not want to have to tell the Scott   family that the man that killed their son brother and father is   innocent.” ’ ’   ”But with the choices, I cannot and will not change my mind.” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   The incident began on April 4 of last year, when Slager, a North   Charleston officer with five years of experience, pulled Scott   over for a broken tail light. Dashcam video shows Scott exiting   his vehicle and fleeing the scene  —   perhaps due to fear of his   unpaid child support obligations, his family said. Slager pursued   Scott on foot, leading them to the scene of the shooting. ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’”My   family has been destroyed by this. The Scott family has been   destroyed by this. It’’s horrible,” he added later. ’