’  ’ ”   House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy  to support     Donald Trump’s proposal to impose a 35% tariff on companies that   leave the US. ” ’   The California Republican was responding to a    outlining his plan to impose a large tariff against   companies that ship jobs overseas. The tariff would be imposed on   the goods shipped back into the US. ’ ’   Speaking to reporters, McCarthy warned that it would lead to a   trade war. ’ ’   ”I don’t want to get into some type of trade war,” McCarthy said. ’ ”he No. 2 Republican in House leadership   following House Speaker Paul Ryan, said he would not commit to   bringing that tariff proposal to the House floor for a vote,   adding the Republican Party’s efforts at tax reform would create   an improved business environment and would render such a tariff   unnecessary. ” ’’ ’   ”I think there are other ways to achieve what the     is talking about,” McCarthy said, ”but the only way you can do   any of this is you’ve got to do tax reform. And that’s why I   think that will be a cornerstone of what we do.” ’ ’   ”Tax cuts and deregulation will make the American economy great   again, but tariffs and trade wars will make it tank again,” he   continued. ’ ’   McCarthy was also pressed about the deal to provide $7   million in incentives to Carrier over 10 years in order to keep   roughly 1, 000 jobs in Indiana, a deal that has been criticized by   many   conservatives such as former Alaska Gov. Sarah   Palin. ’ ’   ”Do you want to know my philosophical belief?” McCarthy said. ”I   believe in the free market. I don’t think government should be   picking winners and losers.” ’ ’   He cautioned reporters against judging what Trump will do ahead   of taking office. ’ ’   ”Take a deep breath,” he said. ”He’s not sworn in yet. I know you   gotta write news, but let’s not predetermine what the outcome is   yet. . .. Is he president of the United States right now? So what   did he give them? He has no authority yet to give them anything.” ’