’  ’ ”     Donald Trump on Tuesday emerged into the Trump   Tower lobby with Masayoshi Son, the CEO of Japan’s     telecom company, SoftBank, to make an announcement. ” ’   In front of the gathered reporters,  $50 billion in the US and bring 50, 000   jobs to the country. ’ ’   Trump followed it up by    that the only reason Son decided to invest in the US was his   election as president. ’ ’   While the deal at first appeared to be a direct investment   from SoftBank that would create American jobs, a deeper look   shows there are still many unclear details and unanswered   questions. ’ ”   For starters, the $50 billion investment is not coming directly   from SoftBank, but rather the SoftBank Vision Fund which was   already annouced in October. The fund is a sort of investment arm   of SoftBank, seeded with $25 billion of the company’s cash. The   total value of the fund is around $100 billion, though that is   not finalized and the fund is not yet closed, and it’s   intended to invest in tech. ” ’’ ’   Son said in a speech Friday in New Delhi that $25 billion of   the money was put up by SoftBank, $45 billion by the   sovereign wealth fund of Saudi Arabia, and the remaining $30   billion by other investors, . ’ ’   The fund, therefore, plans to invest half of what it has   raised in the US. For comparison,  by EY found that roughly half of these   investments were made in   companies, so this   allocation does not appear to be out of the ordinary. ’ ”   Additionally, Son has long been known to make large investments   in the US, such as . So it wouldn’t be out of his previous   investment pattern. ” ”   The second half of the announcement details that the   investment will bring 50, 000 jobs to the US. It’s not clear if   that’s going to companies that will then hire 50, 000 people    —   or that it is going to companies that already employ 50, 000   Americans. ” ”   While it is most likely the former, the vagueness of the news   doesn’t provide much insight into how many people can expect   jobs out of the venture or the time frame in which it would   happen. ” ”   During the impromptu press conference at Trump Tower, Son held up   a printout of PowerPoint slide that appeared to show details   of the investment and bore Trump’s signature. This, however, does   not mean any agreement has been formally made. No     contract has been signed, according to a   person familiar with the matter. ” ”   Additionally, the announcement did not give any sort of timeline   for the investment, though the PowerPoint presentation appeared   to suggest it would take place over the next four years. The   printout also bore the Taiwanese multinational Foxconn’s logo and   suggested another $7 billion would be invested over that period   alongside the SoftBank Vision Fund’s $50 billion. ” ”   Based on the information given by Son and Trump, however, it does   not appear that this move is out of the blue or solely due to   Trump’s win. ” ”   Of note, SoftBank, a   company, has faced   resistance from regulatory agencies in the US before  —   most   notably when . So Tuesday’s press   conference may simply be an attempt to engender goodwill with the   new administration. ”