”   The Iraqi ground effort to wrest away control of the country’s     city, Mosul, from ISIS has dragged on since     and it looks set to continue into the new year. ” ’   Throughout the fight, Iraqi forces and their partners in the   Kurdish peshmerga and Shiite militias have been assisted by air   support from the   coalition of more than 60 countries. ’ ’   The coalition has mounted numerous strikes on ISIS positions   around Mosul, including a November 10 strike that targeted an   ISIS headquarters building near the city, a clip of which you can   see below. ’ ’ ’ ’   The November 10 strike came during a   period that saw 19   airstrikes around Mosul, targeting   buildings, vehicles,   weapons systems, tunnels, fighting positions, and     improvised explosive devices, or VBIEDs, which ISIS has made   extensive and devastating use of during the Mosul campaign. ’ ’   The operation to retake Mosul kicked off on October 17, with   Iraqi forces targeting ISIS fighters and their positions around   the city. But since the fight has moved into the city itself,   progress has slowed, as streets crowded with civilians and fierce   ISIS resistance have made Mosul a treacherous battleground. ’ ’   In recent days,  has grounded coalition   aircraft, creating an opportunity for the terror group. ISIS   militants, who still hold about  launched   counterattacks to the east, south, and west late last week. Their   efforts gained some ground, but Iraqi officials said it would be    . ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ISIS ”still controls our neighborhood, and the Iraqi forces have   not taken a single step forward in three weeks. We’’re in   despair,” a resident in Mosul’’s southeastern district of Intisar,   where the army’’s Ninth Armored Division has struggled to make   gains,  Reuters by phone. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”My family and I have been sleeping under the concrete stairs in   our house for a month now, afraid of the random bombardment   between the Iraqi forces and the Daesh elements,” the source   said, referring to ISIS by an Arabic name. ’ ”   The US has worked to provide support in the face of ISIS’   effective resistance, specifically targeting VBIEDs and the   factories making them. ISIS has deployed hundreds of such weapons   in the Mosul’s tight confines. ” ’   The US Air Force has also  it has developed a way to counter drone   bombs employed by ISIS in Iraq and Syria. ’ ’   US Defense Secretary Ash Carter said on Monday that it was   ”” to retake the city before US     Donald Trump takes office on January 20, but he   stressed that it would be a ”.” ’ ’   Carter has also cautioned that US forces would need to  well after ISIS is defeated. ’ ’   You can see the full video of the airstrike below. ’ ’ ’