’  ’ ”   China’s foreign exchange reserves fell yet again in November,   thanks to the unrelenting upward march of the US dollar and the   yuan’s continued slide down. ” ”   Gross reserves decreased $69. 1 billion, the largest drop in 10   months, falling to $3. 05 trillion in November, the People’s Bank   of China said on Wednesday. That’s down from a peak of $4   trillion in 2014. ” ’   Meanwhile, net reserves  —   gross reserves less foreign debt  —   have   fallen to a   $1. 7 trillion, according to data from   the hedge fund Kynikos Associates. ’ ”   This is all happening because money is flowing out of China as   the yuan’s value falls, and economists think it will continue to   fall on expectations that the US Federal Reserve will raise   interest rates. ” ’   ”Beyond the headline data, other indicators point to increasing   capital outflows and bearish sentiment on the yuan,” Bloomberg   economist Tom Orlik wrote in a note following the data print.   ”Based on the change in FX reserves net of the estimated trade   surplus and the impact of currency movements, outflows may have   edged up to $80 billion in November from $75 billion in October.   China’’s corporates continue to hold on to almost half of their   forex earnings  —   a sign that yuan depreciation expectations   remain high.” ’ ’  ’ ’   The government is also using up foreign reserves to stop the yuan   from falling faster than it is. In its announcement, the   government cited ”market operations” as a reason for falling   reserves. ’ ”   This is contrary to what US   Donald Trump   —   that it’s purposely depressing the   value of its currency. ” ”   In fact, the Chinese government wants the opposite. Since the   middle of 2014, it has been trying to   —   retail, banking, etc.  —     through domestic consumption. It can’t do that, though, if the   yuan is weak and Chinese people lack purchasing power. It’s one   of the   scenarios for the government. ” ”   What’s more, declining foreign exchange reserves have   historically caused major yuan volatility. You may recall that   this was the source of  at the beginning of 2016 that caused   stock markets around the world to flash red. ” ”   There’s only one way to stop all this, according to Patrick   Chovanec, managing director and chief strategist at Silvercrest   Asset Management: ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tThe only way to stop capital outflows from China is to reform and open the economy. Other solutions are a mirage.  ’ ’   Reform in this case means the country deals with its massive   corporate debt and overcapacity issues and strengthens the   private sector. Fortunately, Chinese leaders want to do a lot of   this stuff. Unfortunately, these things are all really hard. ’ ”   And the declining reserves show that China’s running out of time. ”