’  ’ ”   Peter Thiel, a PayPal founder and tech luminary, upset a lot of   people by endorsing Donald Trump. (Wasn’t Silicon Valley supposed   to be liberal?) He has also upset people by crushing Gawker   Media, attacking the college system, criticizing   multiculturalism, and more. ” ”   Thiel usually explains his actions in libertarian or pragmatic   terms. He does stuff to promote individual freedom. He does stuff   because it’s logical. ” ”   If you look at his wonkier writings, however, it’s clear Thiel   also recognizes a larger historical mission. In short, he’s   trying to save the world from apocalypse. ” ’   ”We are in a deadly race between politics and technology,” Thiel   wrote in a . ”The future will be much better   or much worse, but the question of the future remains very open   indeed. . .. The fate of our world may depend on the effort of a   single person who builds or propagates the machinery of freedom   that makes the world safe for capitalism.” ’ ”   Thiel’s philosophy, though complex, is coherent and provocative.   It’s also arguably liberal  —   at least in the classical sense of   valuing individual freedom. ” ”   In this article, we’ll try to break it down and show how it   relates to various actions. Thiel declined to be interviewed, so   we’ll focus on his past comments. ” ”   To understand Thiel’s outlook, you have to look at mimetic   theory, an idea developed by René Girard, whom Thiel studied with   at Stanford and in whose name . ” ’   ”I’’ve noticed that it takes a long time to really sink in,”   . ”You can   understand what his words mean as philosophical concepts without   understanding how those concepts play out in life.” ’ ’ Like Girard, Thiel believes that . .. ’ ” . .. mankind’s extraordinary capacity for mimesis, aka   imitation, leads to envy. ” ’   Human see, human want. ’ ’   In ancient cultures, this often resulted in chaos. ’ ’   ”The fundamental problem in these cultures was that there were   all sorts of conflicts everywhere,”  according to notes by his former   student Blake Masters, which we’’ll treat as verbatim. ’ ’ . .. society controls tensions through   scapegoating. ’ ’   ”Where warring civilizations didn’’t just collapse entirely, the   most common resolution involved polarizing and channeling all the   hostility into one particular person,” Thiel told his class. ’ ’   Early examples of scapegoats might include Oedipus and Julius   Caesar. Recent examples might include Bill Gates, Kanye West, and   Donald Trump. ’ ’   By literally or figuratively sacrificing these figures, people   are able to find a cathartic release for anger, envy, and other   destructive urges. ’ ’ . .. modern thought aims to uncover the truth about   society. ’ ’   The fact that society is built on violence and justified by lies.   The fact that we have these violent urges in us. ’ ’   Girard and Thiel hold the New Testament as a seminal text, with   its defense of innocent victims through history and its focus on   Christ, the most innocent scapegoat of all. ’ ’   ”For Girard, the knowledge of the founding murder is driven by   the historical working of the   revelation,” . ”The revelation may be slow (because it   contains a message that humans do not wish to hear) but it is   not reversible.” ’ ’   Thiel also describes modern thought in terms that might be called   liberal or libertarian. As  ”The breakthrough involved a single   revolutionary idea: that individuals exist and have rights, and   that these rights are independent of the cultures these   individuals happen to inhabit.” ’ ’   The spread of modern thought might lead to paradise, but . .. ’ ’ . .. modern thought is dangerous. ’ ’   By exposing the lies that hold up society  —   e. g. that we are   good and others are evil  —   modern thought makes it harder to   justify ongoing exploitation. ’ ”   What’s more, modernity has introduced ever larger societies,   opening the possibility for ever larger mimetic rivalries. Today,   for instance, people around the world might be aware of and   jealous of how people in the West live. ” ’   ”For Girard, this combination of mimesis and the unraveling of   archaic culture implies that the modern world contains a   powerfully apocalyptic dimension,” Thiel wrote in 2004. ’ ’  ’ ’ Where Thiel goes beyond Girard is in ideas about   influencing the future. ’ ’   Thiel laid out his own worldview at a 2004 philosophical   conference, which he sponsored, on ”.” As  ”Thiel’’s   contribution to the conference, seeks common ground between   Girard’’s mimetic theory of human social life   …     and the work of   two     political philosophers who were   in vogue in the years following  : Leo Strauss   …     and Carl   Schmitt.” ’ ’   In a world of nuclear weapons, facing the scale of terrorism seen   on   or worse, true liberal thinkers must act forcefully to   spread their values and stave off existential risks, Thiel   argued. ’ ’   On the philosophical front, that meant reengaging with important   questions about human nature  —   e. g. what are good and evil and   why is society the way it is. ’ ’   ”Today, mere   forces all of us to look at the   world anew, to think strange new thoughts, and thereby to awaken   from that very long and profitable period of intellectual slumber   and amnesia that is so misleadingly called the Enlightenment,”   Thiel wrote. ’ ’   On the political front, that meant taking occasionally secret or   undemocratic actions. ’ ’   ”Instead of the United Nations, filled with interminable and   inconclusive parliamentary debates that resemble Shakespearean   tales told by idiots, we should consider Echelon, the secret   coordination of the world’’s intelligence services, as the   decisive path to a truly global pax America,” Thiel   wrote. ’ ’   ”The postmodern world,” Thiel wrote, ”could differ from the   modern world in a way that is much worse or much better  —   the   limitless violence of runaway mimesis or the peace of the kingdom   of God.” ’ ”   Thiel’s apocalyptic mission  —   which might be described as   spreading individual freedom while preventing cataclysmic mimetic   violence  —   appears to be a factor in many of his actions. ” ’   His attack on multiculturalism  —   such as in his 1995 book,   ””  —   was a warning against a new form of scapegoating. ’ ’   ”Rather than breaking the cycle of human history,   multiculturalism merely represents another link in the long chain   of victimization and revenge,” Thiel wrote. ’ ”   What’s more, Thiel argued, debates about female culture, black   culture, and a thousand other cultures were distracting from more   important questions about human culture. ” ’   Founding PayPal, which launched in 1999, may have been a way to   spread individual freedom and keep dangerous political forces in   check. Thiel said in an early speech (): ”PayPal will give citizens worldwide more   direct control over their currencies than they ever had before.   It will be nearly impossible for corrupt governments to steal   wealth from their people through their old means, because if they   try, the people will switch to dollars or pounds or yen, in   effect dumping the worthless local currency for something more   secure.” ’ ’  ’ ’   PayPal, notably, didn’’t work quite as intended. September 11   ”proved fatal to PayPal’’s libertarian ambition  —   electronic   currency systems suddenly seemed like ideal ways for terrorists   to hide money,” . (The company sold to eBay in 2002.) ’ ’   Founding Palantir, a big data analysis company specializing in   security, in 2004, might have been Thiel’’s way of supporting   forceful but necessary political actions. Remember Thiel’’s line   about the global spy network Echelon being ”the decisive path to   a truly global pax America”? It is clearly echoed in    mission to fuse ”data and analysis across   geographically dispersed users, providing commanders with the   latest intelligence no matter where they are.” ’ ’   Investing in Facebook, back in 2004, could be read as a way to   spread individual freedom. As  ”companies like Facebook create the   space for new modes of dissent and new ways to form communities   not bounded by historical  .” Additionally, perhaps   Facebook was ”a mechanism for the containment and channeling of   mimetic violence in the face of an ineffectual state,”   —   let people fight on social media, and   they won’’t fight in real life. ’ ’   Thiel did at least recognize the potential of Facebook through   mimetic theory. ’ ’   ”Facebook first spread by word of mouth, and it’’s about word of   mouth, so it’’s doubly mimetic,” . ”Social media proved to be more   important than it looked, because it’’s about our natures.” ’ ”   Thiel’s other activities in the past decade might be summed up as   trying to spread liberal innovation and disrupt stagnation. ” ’   Thiel promoted innovations like artificial intelligence, life   extension, and seasteading  —   the creation of new societies in   international waters. In his 2014 book, ”,” Thiel championed the idea of true innovation (going   from 0 to 1) as opposed to copying (going from 1 to n). No wonder   he was popular in Silicon Valley. ’ ’   Thiel tried to disrupt what he saw as an overpriced and      university system, which he challenged   with $100, 000 Thiel Fellowships that required recipients to drop   out of college, and what he saw as an overpriced and incompetent   government, which he challenged by supporting libertarian and   conservative groups and candidates. ’ ’   Which just about brings us to the present. ’ ’  ’ ”   In May 2016, Thiel admitted to funding Hulk Hogan’s privacy   lawsuit against Gawker Media, which eventually bankrupted the   publication. This action upset many liberals because it appeared   to be an attack on the freedom of the press  —   after all, Gawker   had antagonized Thiel in 2007 by outing him as gay, and now the   powerful man appeared to be getting revenge. ” ’   Thiel publicly defended himself by saying he was defending   broader issues of online privacy. ’ ’   ”The press is too important to let its role be undermined by   those who would search for clicks at the cost of the profession’’s   reputation,” . Thiel pointed to his support of the   Committee to Protect Journalists as evidence of good faith. ’ ’   Perhaps privately, Thiel worried that Gawker was stirring up   tensions and slowing global progress with its gleeful embrace of   scapegoating. Shullenberger  in a recent essay. ’ ’   ”It seems reasonable to conclude that Thiel’’s animus against   Gawker, which he has repeatedly accused of ’’bullying’’ him and   other Silicon Valley power players, is closely connected to his   core concern with scapegoating, derived from his longstanding   engagement with Girard’’s ideas,” Shullenberger wrote. Perhaps   Thiel also feared that Gawker was undermining the kind of   journalism that spread truth. ’ ”   As for his thoughts on sexual privacy, Thiel’s stance appears to   follow his criticism of multiculturalism. He doesn’t want to   identify as a gay man; he’d rather identify as a human. ” ’   In June 2016, Thiel took his most provocative action yet.   Appearing at the Republican National Convention, he . ’ ’   ”I’’m not a politician. But neither is Donald Trump,” Thiel told   the audience. ”He is a builder, and it’’s time to rebuild   America.” ’ ’  ’ ”   Thiel’s support for Trump surprised many people who may have   assumed that any smart person out of Silicon Valley must be a   liberal, but it made sense in a lot of ways. ” ’   On the surface, Thiel might have liked a candidate who was a   founder, who mocked political correctness, who pledged to reduce   the size of government, and who, in general, seemed likely to   disrupt politics as usual. ’ ’   Although Thiel was once skeptical about politics  —   he wrote in   2004 that ”no new Alexander is in sight to cut the Gordian knot   of our age”  —   perhaps he saw Trump as the rare leader who might   accomplish something. ’ ”   On a deeper level, perhaps Trump fit into Thiel’s grand   historical plans. Here was a man who would disrupt the runaway   mimesis caused by globalization, which encouraged people around   the world to compare their lives to everyone else’s. Here was a   man who was already channeling mimetic tensions through   scapegoating  —   conservatives were venting about Mexicans, the   Chinese, and Hillary Clinton, while liberals were venting about   Trump himself. By serving these functions, the provocative   candidate might paradoxically defuse or distract from global   tensions. ” ’   Perhaps,  Trump is destined to   become a scapegoat for the ages, a kinglike figure who is in one   way or another sacrificed to create a new world order. ’ ’   ”Trump even viscerally looks the part of the old scapegoat kings   who would be ceremonially paraded before being sacrificed,” the   . ’ ”   Has Thiel really done these things to ensure the spread of   individual freedom, in pursuit of global peace? Whatever exactly   he is doing, don’t expect him to talk openly about it. ” ’   Thiel subscribes to ”the Straussian idea that it’’s important for   the intellectual elite and the ruling class to have secrets,”   Shullenberger wrote in an email. As scary as that sounds, one   might take faith in the idea that Thiel believes in a final   reckoning. ’ ’   ”The Christian statesman or stateswoman must diverge from the   teachings of Strauss in one decisive respect,” Thiel wrote in   2004. ”One must never forget that one day all will be revealed,   that all injustices will be exposed, and that those who   perpetrated them will be held to account.” ’