’  ’ ’   For about a week, some environmentalists maintained hope that     Donald Trump might moderate his views on climate   change. ’ ’   The man who formerly called climate change a ”Chinese   hoax” admitted to the New York Times earlier this month that    between human   activity and climate change. He took two   separate meetings with   environmental activists   Leonardo DiCaprio and former Vice President Al Gore. And his   daughter, Ivanka Trump, has taken a  interest   in the issue of climate change. ’ ”   But any potential hope Trump’s meetings inspired with the   environmental community were quickly scuttled on Wednesday, when   the   picked Oklahoma Attorney General Scott   Pruitt to head the Environmental Protection Agency. ” ”   The attorney general seemed to be a selection much more in   line with Trump’s previously outlined environmental policy   prescriptions. On the campaign trail, Trump suggested abolishing   the EPA and pledged to roll back environmental regulations.   Pruitt has close ties to the fossil fuel industry, and   he  a   state unit dedicated to opposing President Barack Obama’s EPA   regulations. Republicans largely praised the Pruitt pick as one   that would roll back what they perceive as regulatory overreach   by the Obama administration. ” ”   Top environmental activists like Sierra Club executive   director Michael Brune said Pruitt’s record showed that   while Trump may be deft at nodding to environmentalists, he would   leave crafting actual policy up to climate change skeptics. ” ’’ ’   ”I don’’t think there are any mixed signals. Trump has been very   consistent throughout the last year and a half saying that he   doesn’t think that climate change is real, that he doesn’t intend   to do anything about it,” Brune told Business Insider in an   interview Thursday. ’ ’   He added: ”One little   with the New York Times or a   meeting or two doesn’t negate the fact that he has taken just   about every opportunity to appoint people to his transition team   and now to nominate an EPA head  —   these are folks who don’t   believe that climate change is real, don’t think that the US   government should continue its role in public health, and side   with the fossil fuel industry over the American public.” ’ ’   Other climate activists were equally as blunt. ’ ’   ”Pruitt’’s appointment reveals Trump’’s climate   and   meetings with Gore as nothing more than a smokescreen,” May   Boeve, executive director of the group 350. org, said in   a statement. ’ ”   Many vowed to make noise about Pruitt’s nomination. ” ’   Billionaire investor and NextGen Climate founder Tom Steyer   called on Senate Democrats to reject Pruitt. ’ ’   ”Donald Trump’’s decision to nominate Oklahoma Attorney General   Scott Pruitt represents a serious attack on American values. It’s   now up to the Senate to stand on the right side of history and   fight for our families by defeating this nomination,”  in a statement. ’ ’   Brune  —   who characterized Pruitt’’s appointment as ”putting an   arsonist in charge of a fire”  —   said that environmental activists   had the upper hand,  public opinion surveys which showed the majority   of Americans believe that climate change is a serious problem. ’ ’   ”We’ll work with everybody in the Senate who believes that   climate change is real, that the EPA’s job is to protect public   health, and we think that there will be a majority of senators   who will oppose this nomination,” he said. ”Pruitt has a very   clear and consistent track record of resisting efforts to limit   pollution. And since regulating pollution would be his job as   head of th EPA, he is unusually unqualified to assume this   position.” ’