’  ’ ”   The thought of one particular congressman potentially becoming   the top trade official in   Donald Trump’s   administration has outraged trade reform advocates hopeful that   the incoming president would stick to his word regarding his      campaign rhetoric. ” ’   That congressman is outgoing Rep. Charles Boustany of Louisiana,   who sought the open Senate seat in his home state but did not   receive enough votes to qualify for the runoff election on   Saturday. He is not seeking reelection to his House seat. ’ ” earlier this month that   Boustany had been engaged with Trump’s transition team about   serving as US trade representative in the administration, and the   Republican member of the House Ways and Means Committee confirmed   such discussions with  saying he’d take the job if   offered. ” ’   ”I’’m certainly interested,” he said. ’ ”   While the Louisiana Republican is selling himself for his role in   securing passage of two major trade enforcement bills enacted by   Congress in 2015, he’s been in favor of all of the major free   trade agreements Trump has stood in fierce opposition to.   Boustany  the     Partnership and is a cofounder of the Friends of   the TPP caucus. An unabashed free trader,    with Peru and South Korea, as well as trade promotion agreements   with Panama and Colombia. ” ’   ”The prospect of him as a USTR candidate makes Trump’’s trade   campaign, campaign trade commitments, and focus seem extremely   hypocritical,” Lori Wallach, director and founder of Public   Citizen’’s Global Trade Watch, told Business Insider. ”I mean,   it’’s a little bit like inviting Dracula to run your blood bank.” ’ ’   Wallach ridiculed Boustany for not declaring opposition to the   TPP until he was ”going down in flames” in the Senate race, she   said, adding the caveat that he was opposing it in its current   version only because it didn’’t go far enough to meet demands made   in the trade promotion authority legislation, particularly   regarding intellectual property protections for the   pharmaceutical industry. Boustany had additionally expressed   concerns about how the deal would affect Louisiana’’s sugar and   rice industries. ’ ’   ”Not because it would kill jobs, not because it would help China   because it didn’’t deal with currency manipulation, but because it   didn’’t do enough for one particular industry to avoid   competition,” she said, adding that the discussion between   Boustany and the Trump team ”makes a lot of people wonder whether   Trump really intends to do any reforms on trade policy.” ’ ’   ”Boustany would be the last person you would have as USTR if that   was your plan,” she said. ’ ’   Michael Stumo, CEO of the Coalition for a Prosperous America,   told Business Insider that he felt it was ”unlikely” Boustany   would get the pick because it would be a total ”betrayal of   Trump’’s campaign promises and his base.” ’ ’   ”Boustany is a   globalist, untroubled by trade   deficits, who opposed fixing currency manipulation and helped   lead the unsuccessful effort to ram the       Partnership through Congress,” he said in a statement. ’ ’   But the source who spoke with Politico said Boustany could make a   ”strong case” for the job based on his role in authoring the   trade enforcement provisions in 2015’’s Customs and Border   Protection reauthorization. The source added that the need to   expand trade is not mutually exclusive with what he believes is   Trump’’s foremost priority of stronger trade enforcement. ’ ’   Indeed, Trump has spent much of the campaign  —   and  ”thank you”   tour rallies in recent days  —   railing against China, labeling the   country as the main culprit for the loss of many manufacturing   jobs in the US. The   has promised to label China a   currency manipulator as soon as he assumes office, making appeals   for tougher enforcement against Chinese trade practices. ’ ’   Boustany, who  of the congressional     working group, voted against legislation in 2010 related   to currency manipulation. ’ ’   While trade reform activists are appalled at the idea of Boustany   in the position, House Republicans believe Boustany is intriguing   as a potential USTR. ’ ’  ’ ’   Saying he’’s sure the Trump transition team will make ”a very   appropriate selection,” House Ways and Means Chair Rep. Kevin   Brady told Business Insider in a recent interview that he’’s   pleased Boustany is under consideration. ’ ’   ”Look, I know Dr. Boustany very well,” he said of the   congressman, who used to work as a cardiovascular surgeon in his   home state. ”And I am so always impressed with him, his knowledge   of trade, his involvement in trade agreements.” ’ ’   ”He also, in the House, led the enforcement efforts that became   part of the new law  —   the customs bill that was signed earlier   this year by the president gives us those unprecedented   enforcement powers,” he said. ’ ’   Brady called Boustany an ”incredibly hard worker” who ”brings a   lot to the table.” ’ ”   The other person who has been mentioned as a potential USTR is    the former Nucor CEO who is   leading Trump’s   transition. That choice would be   much more appealing to trade reformers. ” ’   ”A lot of people think Dan DiMicco, a guy who . .. aligns with a   lot of Trump’’s views on trade and is coming from having run a big   steel company that had to deal with Chinese cheating and all the   subsidies, would be more compatible to what Trump says he wants,”   Wallach said. ’ ’   A Boustany selection would alienate the voters who helped put   Trump over the top in Michigan, Wisconsin, and Pennsylvania, all   a part of the   blue wall that Trump was not expected to   crack in the November election, Wallach said. She added that the   reported conversations had ”a lot of people sending around emails   saying, ’’Oh my God, even the trade stuff is a con job. ’’” ’ ’  ’ ’   ”I think that there are a lot of people when they saw that   meeting who said, ’’What the   ’’” Wallach said. ”It’’s like, you   must be kidding. Let’’s, like, have Martin Luther become the Pope.   It’’s antithetical to the basic philosophies.” ’ ’   Wallach said Boustany was the ”corporate special interests’’” last   chance to ”undermine” the changes Trump campaigned on. ’ ’   ”I mean, just the signal it sends,” she said. ”If there are a lot   of people doubting what Trump really means on his veracity about   anything, the last thing you would want to do is send a signal of   total hypocrisy in the first few weeks of your transition.” ’ ’   Neither Boustany nor the Trump transition team returned requests   for comment from Business Insider. ’