’  ’ ’   A juror in the murder trial of Michael Slager, the former   South Carolina police officer who fatally shot unarmed black   motorist Walter Scott, said on Thursday that Slager had done   nothing ”malicious” in the killing. ’ ’   The trial controversially  on Monday after jurors were unable to   agree on a verdict. ’ ’   Dorsey Montgomery, the jury’’s foreman, said the jury was focusing   on a lesser manslaughter conviction for Slager rather than   murder, which under South Carolina law requires ”malice   aforethought.” ’ ’   ”We had to come to find out that he didn’’t do anything   malicious,”  on NBC’’s ”Today” show. ”He had a brief   disturbance in reason at that moment.” ’ ’   Over the course of the monthlong trial, prosecutors repeatedly   played a  filmed by a bystander, of Slager shooting at Scott   eight times as Scott ran away from the North Charleston   patrolman. Slager, who is white, testified that before the   bystander began filming, Scott had wrested away his Taser and   lunged at Slager, putting the officer in ”total fear” for his   life. ’ ’   Montgomery also dispelled speculation that the jury was locked in   an   split, with one holdout refusing to convict Slager. Five   of the jurors remained undecided by the time the mistrial was   declared, Montgomery said. ’ ’   Talk of an   split started on the third day of jury   deliberation last week, when one juror  to Judge Clifton Newman saying he was unwilling   to convict Slager. In a   note, Montgomery wrote that   ”it’’s just one juror that’’s having the issues.” ’ ’   Deliberation among the 12 jurors stretched over four days, but   seemed destined to result in a mistrial on Friday after   Montgomery reported the jury was ”hopelessly deadlocked.” ’ ”   Montgomery said he didn’t think race played a role in the   stalemate that led to the mistrial declaration. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   The shooting raised questions nationwide about police violence   against minorities. Slager’s attorney, Andy Savage, argued the   media were trying to make Slager a scapegoat for other racially   charged police killings across the country. ” ’  ’ ’   Slager is facing a maximum of life in prison if convicted of   murder. State solicitors have vowed to retry him, although   no date has been set for a future trial. Slager will also be   tried in federal court. ’