’  ’ ’   Former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani withdrew last week from   consideration to be secretary of state or any other role in the   incoming White House,   Donald Trump said Friday. ’ ’   ”Rudy Giuliani is an extraordinarily talented and patriotic   American,” Trump said. ”I will always be appreciative of his     dedication to our campaign after I won the primaries and for his   extremely wise counsel.” ’ ’   Trump said that Giuliani ”continues to be a close personal   friend” and will be someone he looks to for advice. The     said he ”can see an important place for him   in the administration at a later date.” ’ ’   Giuliani, who was initially  for secretary of   state, was overshadowed in recent weeks by other people,   including retired Gen. David Petraeus and Mitt Romney, the former   Massachusetts governor and 2012 Republican presidential nominee. ’ ’   ”This is not about me; it is about what is best for the country   and the new administration,” Giuliani said in a statement   explaining his decision. ’ ’’ ’   The former New York City mayor, who after the release of the lewd   2005 ”Access Hollywood” tape was perhaps the only surrogate who   publicly defended Trump, will remain vice chairman of the   presidential transition team, the campaign said. ’ ’   ”Before I joined the campaign I was very involved and fulfilled   by my work with my law firm and consulting firm, and I will   continue that work with even more enthusiasm,” Giuliani said.   ”From the vantage point of the private sector, I look forward to   helping the   in any way he deems necessary and   appropriate.” ’ ’   Fox News host Neil Cavuto, who spoke to Giuliani after it was   announced he had withdrawn his name for consideration, asked if   he was at all bitter. ’ ’   ”Not at all. I am a very happy man,” Giuliani said, adding that   Trump ”continues to be one of my closest friends.” ’ ’   The pair will attend the   football game on Saturday   together, Giuliani said. ’ ”   Trump’s list of candidates for secretary of state has  in recent days. The   Wall Street Journal  that Rex   Tillerson, CEO of Exxon Mobile, was Trump’s latest favorite for   the post. ”