’’ ’When Apple announced the headphone   iPhone 7 in September, it  a completely wireless set of earbuds similar to   offerings like the  and .’ ”The little white earphones were expected to go on sale sometime in October for $159. We’re now approaching Christmas, however, and they’re .” ’Apple  saying it needed ”a little more time before AirPods are ready for customers,” but it has been vague in explaining what exactly the   is.’ ’According to a  though, the issue sounds largely technical. Citing a ”person familiar with the development of the AirPod,” the report suggests Apple is struggling to ensure that both AirPods receive a Bluetooth signal simultaneously, something that would help them avoid sudden connection dropouts.’ ’It still isn’’t clear when exactly Apple will release the AirPods to the public. A  that Apple would start AirPods production on a limited basis sometime in December, but Apple hasn’’t provided any update since. The company currently lists AirPods as ”coming soon” .’ ’’ ”If Apple is having trouble keeping AirPods’ connection consistent, it wouldn’t be a surprise  —   most other truly wireless earbuds on the market today suffer from connection problems.” ’With the current Bluetooth protocol, wireless audio cannot be streamed to two separate devices simultaneously. As a result, wireless earphone makers have used various solutions to keep two untethered earbuds in sync. The likes of Bragi and  use a tech called near field magnetic induction (NFMI) some have tried deploying the Bluetooth low energy protocol, while others have used different technologies.’ ”Usually, these involve sending an audio signal to one earbud, which then quickly relays the signal to the other earbud. This can work, but as the choppy performance of most of truly wireless headphones has shown, it’s difficult to make reliable. That’s because it still leaves room for foreign objects  —   such as your head  —   to interfere with the signal.” ’’ ”As  Bluetooth SIG, the organization that oversees the development of Bluetooth, is working on an update that would allow devices to send audio streams to multiple devices at once using the Bluetooth low energy protocol, but it isn’t scheduled to arrive until sometime next year.” ”When it comes, the hope is that it’ll reduce many of the technical problems that truly wireless earbuds face today. Apple currently  on the Bluetooth SIG’s board of directors.” ”But according to The Journal’s report, Apple says each AirPod earpiece can receive an independent signal, despite its apparent use of standard Bluetooth audio tech. (Since it can work with any phone.) If true, this could be a result of the proprietary,   W1 chip that’s built inside the AirPods and .” ”If Apple is still having trouble getting those signals to each earbud at the same time, this suggests that its attempt to get ahead of the open Bluetooth standard hasn’t gone as smoothly as hoped.”