’  ’ ’   At an investor conference in December, Cliffwater managing   director Chris Solarz bluntly declared that “90 percent of hedge   funds are not worth their fees. ” ’ ’   The data supports Solarz.  According to Hedge Fund Research,   with the S&P 500 up almost 8 percent through Nov.   30th hedge funds were up just 4. 6 percent after   fees. [1] ’ ’   Hedge fund managers are good at picking stocks and identifying   esoteric correlation trades.  They are less good at   constructing sustainable portfolios, hedging or managing complex   risk.  In comparison to hedge funds,   firms   may not be   at generating alpha.  But they excel   at managing large pools of capital with consistent performance. ’ ’   Sovereign wealth funds, pension funds, mutual funds and other   large investors are balking at the high fees and volatility   associated with alternative investments —  hedge funds   specifically.  They are, consequently, moving assets toward     platforms with relatively tighter risk limits and   consistent records of capital preservation. ’ ’   Here’s the evidence: by the fourth quarter of 2016 $77 billion   had pulled out of what had been a $3 trillion     industry.  According to eVestment, in   October alone 61 percent of funds recorded net   outflows as large investors went in search of   beta. ’ ’   Large,   hedge funds with consistent returns are   benefiting from the reallocation of funding.  The money is   concentrating among its best players.  But they may not have   the expertise to manage the extra capital. ’ ’   True alpha in fundamental investing is becoming rarer across   asset classes.  No wonder the “2 and 20” model conventional   among hedge funds has been under pressure.  In 2016,   Pershing Square, Brevan Howard, Tudor Investment and     Capital Management all lowered or eliminated management fees. ’ ’  ’ ’     stars like Paul Tudor Jones, George Soros and Alan   Howard have publicly discussed difficulties in generating   revenues and beating market averages.  Portfolio managers   who built fortunes on fundamental,   trading are   aggressively refocusing on beta neutral long and short   quantitative strategies.  Quant funds like Winton, AQR and   Bridgewater are raising billions to create a hybrid investment   style. ’ ’   Asset managers —  and hedge funds with     aspirations —  will be beneficiaries of the trend if they   have the technology and deep research capabilities to   capitalize.  With these they can run   beta   strategies with alpha “overlays” taking advantage of market   altering events such as Brexit or a new IPO.  Their   discretionary counterparts, meanwhile, struggle to navigate such   events successfully. ’ ’   Too many traditional asset managers have difficulty beating   benchmarks like the S&P 500.  And too many asset   managers are still executing their trades via    systems   and overpaying Wall Street platforms for help. ’ ’ The talent challenge ’ ’   Shifts in funding and investment styles create challenges for   hedge funds and asset managers alike.  Their challenges   cannot be solved with their existing talent configurations.    In the next three years this will have sometimes     implications for the existing talent pools of both businesses. ’ ’   One quite likely response among hedge funds and execution   platforms will be investment in   talent —  talent   previously unavailable to them and relatively overpriced.      development and trading staff will be hired   away from hedge funds and platforms.  Banks will become less   desirable employers to electronic traders, quant researchers and   developers. ’ ’   We can expect to see portfolio construction talent begin to move   from   firms to the   hedge funds and   banks along with other   and     researchers.    researchers with extensive   portfolio construction experience will be indispensable to   running   strategies. Researchers at     firms have been comparatively underpaid relative to their     counterparts even though performing similar work with   comparable qualifications. ’ ’   That disparity is about to be history. ’ ’ Investing in 90 percent of hedge funds isn’t   worth it: critics. C. English. The New York Post.   December 7, 2016. ’ ’ October Sees More Hedge Fund Asset Outflows. P.   Laurelli. eVestment Blog. November 22, 2016. ’