’  ’ ”     Donald Trump has reportedly selected Exxon   Mobil CEO Rex Tillerson to be his administration’s secretary of   state, sources told  on Saturday. ” ’   Mitchell said that Tillerson will be officially nominated   sometime next week ”barring some unforeseen change of mind by the    .”  ’ ’   Mitchell also reported that Tillerson  —   an unusual pick with no   political experience  —   will likely be paired with former UN   Ambassador John Bolton, who would serve as deputy secretary. ’ ’   Tillerson and Trump met on Saturday morning, a transition   official told Reuters.  ’ ”   Tillerson had become the leading candidate for the post in recent   days, amid . The Wall Street Journal  that Tillerson’s emergence as a candidate for   the nation’s top diplomatic post came as a surprise to both him   and senior Exxon officials. ” ’’ ”   Tillerson’s nomination may also open up questions about potential   conflicts of interest because of Exxon’s large portfolio around   the globe. Few US citizens are closer to Vladimir Putin, the   Russian president, beyond Henry Kissinger, according to The   Journal. ” ”   Putin and Tillerson cut a deal in 2011 giving Exxon access to oil   resources in Russia’s Arctic, though it was eventually blocked by   the US sanctions after Russia invaded the Crimean peninsula.   Tillerson was awarded the country’s Order of Friendship. ” ”   Tillerson’s close ties to Putin will likely come intense scrutiny   during his confirmation process if he is nominated. The news of   his potential appointment comes a day after the reports emerged   that the CIA has concluded  with the election to try to   help Trump to victory. ” ’   Trump has also considered for the post 2012 Republican nominee   Mitt Romney, Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chair Bob Corker,   Gen. David Petraeus, and Bolton, among others. Former New York   City Mayor Rudy Giuliani was an early frontrunner for the   position but . ’ ”   A spokeswoman for Trump’s transition team did not   immediately respond to a request for comment. ”