’  ’ ”   Hedge fund titan Carl Icahn says the stock market’s rally   following   Donald Trump’s victory may   have gone too far.  ” ’   All the major   indexes jumped to  after the election, and the Dow Jones Industrial   Average has gained more than 1, 000 points in the month since. ’ ” has increased, as they bet that Trump’s   promises to cut corporate taxes and ease business regulations   would be additive to company earnings.   ” ’   ”The market is not going up because Donald has gone and kept   Carrier from going to Mexico,” Icahn told CNN’’s Poppy Harlow on   Saturday. ”The market is going up  —   and maybe it’’s gotten ahead   of itself, I’’m not going to say it hasn’’t  —   but it is going up   because it’’s perceived that this is going to be a very     presidency and government.” ’ ’   On taxes, he added, ”certain investors are saying, ’’Hey look, why   should I sell now when . .. I can save a lot of money by   waiting till next year? ’’ So what happens is that a lot of stock   is not offered, and therefore it’’s very bid.” ’ ’’ ’   There are many reasons why the market is rallying that could   change ”on the dime,” Icahn said. He added that he bought stocks   after the election, but wished he had purchased more.  ’ ”   Icahn, a longtime Trump supporter, said that the    ’s decisions since the election have also boosted   the market’s confidence. ” ”   He said Trump’s  which gave the   maker   incentives to keep 1, 000 jobs in Indiana, was a step in the right   direction because unions had become too  .  ” ’   ”The unions can be very difficult at times,” he said. ”I’’m not     but you can’’t tell me that some unions   really haven’’t made the lives of businessmen very   difficult.”  ’ ’   Icahn said he had been involved behind the scenes with helping   the transition team pick some key nominees for the next   administration.  ’ ’   ”There are going to be many bumps on the road, but I think Donald   is completely on the right track in the things he’’s trying to   do,” Icahn said. ”Obviously, it’’s going to be very difficult to   do a lot of them, and there’’s going to be bumps on the road.” ’