’  ’ ’     Donald Trump has spoken to dozens of foreign   leaders on the phone since he won the election. ’ ’   The calls have been somewhat unorthodox. ’ ”   Trump spoke with President Tsai   of Taiwan last week,   sparking an uproar considering it marked the first time a US   president has directly spoken with Taiwan’s leadership in more   than 30 years. ” ’ the move could strain US relations with   China. The US suspended formal diplomatic relations with Taiwan   in 1979 after establishing a One China position in an effort to   establish diplomatic channels with Beijing. ’ ’   Around the same time, Trump spoke to the leaders of Pakistan,   Kazakhstan, and the Philippines, and those countries released   readouts that were striking in their detail and candor. ’ ”   Here’s an overview of how Trump is shaking up diplomacy with his     interactions with foreign leaders. ” ’  ’ ’   The call between Trump and   was . ’ ’   Ian Bremmer, a geopolitical expert and president of the Eurasia   Group, said Beijing would be ”absolutely incensed” about the   call. ’ ”   He noted that the call ignored protocol. The White House said it   didn’t know about the call until after it occurred. ” ’   ”Trump is just taking all sorts of calls of congratulations and   has ignored both protocol and intel briefings,” Bremmer told   Business Insider in an email last week. ”This is his first   serious misstep accordingly. We’’ll surely see more.” ’ ’   He continued: ”Inconceivable the Chinese won’’t react harshly to   this. This is a red line for them. And hard to imagine Trump   saying ’’no big deal’’ and not talking to the Taiwanese going   forward. We are now stuck [with] escalation, and     relations under Trump get off to a particularly ugly start.” ’ ”   Beijing views Taiwan as a province of China, whereas Taiwan  —     which has its own democratically elected government  —   has a more   complicated view of the nations’ relationship. ” ’  ’ ’   Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte, the notoriously     leader who  earlier this year,   also spoke to Trump. ’ ’   The call came after Duterte  and declared his   realignment with China. He also threatened to draw closer to   Russia, a country Trump has also cozied up to. ’ ’   Trump and Duterte spoke earlier this month by phone. At a UN   Convention Against Corruption conference in Manila this week,    a   version of   their  quoting Trump as   saying the US and the Philippines ”should fix our bad   relations.” ’ ’   ”It needs a lot of . .. you know, you just said something good   here, and you’’re doing great,” Duterte quoted Trump as saying. ”I   know what you’’re . .. you worry about Americans criticizing you.   You’’re doing good, go ahead. I had this problem in the border of   Mexico and America.” ’ ’   Duterte has a reputation for   abuses and   extrajudicial killings. ’ ’   He also said Trump invited him to visit the US. ’ ’   ”Oh yes, when you come to Washington, DC, or New York City, look   me up and I will have coffee,” Deterte quoted Trump as saying.   ”Maybe you can give me a suggestion, one or two, how to solve   this goddamn    .” ’ ’  ’ ’   Trump also had words of praise for Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz   Sharif. ’ ’   Pakistan’’s government  of the call, saying Trump praised Sharif   as a ”terrific guy” and called Pakistanis ”one of the most   intelligent people.” ’ ’   Sharif apparently called Trump to congratulate him on winning the   White House, and Trump responded by speaking approvingly of   Sharif’’s ”very good reputation.” ’ ’   ”You are doing very good work which is visible in every way,”   Trump said to Sharif, according to the readout. ”I am looking   forward to [seeing] you soon.” ’ ’   Sharif and his family were  amid the release of the Panama   Papers, and the embattled prime minister is facing  among the public about his rule. ’ ”   Some also wondered what Trump’s praise would mean for US   relations with India, which has a tense relationship with   Pakistan. ” ’   Alyssa Ayres, a senior fellow for India, Pakistan, and South Asia   at the Council on Foreign Relations, said the Pakistani readout   ”a level of detail that you normally don’’t see.” But she said   that she recently returned from India and she doesn’’t ”think   anybody in India is seriously worrying about this.” ’ ’   ”I’’ve never seen a readout like that,” Ayres told Business   Insider. ”Normally you agree on the counters of the readout in   advance. I think you see the fact that Trump is carrying out this   phone call diplomacy without coordinating with the State   Department.” ’ ’   She said Hillary Clinton, the former US secretary of state and   Democratic nominee for president, ”would have been much more   careful about that particular situation.” ’ ’   Ayres speculated that Trump, who has experience dealing with   international businessmen, has gotten used to these kinds of   interactions. ’ ’   ”I do think he probably having spent an entire career in   international business and in property development and TV and   entertainment, he’’s become accustomed to putting a really   positive face forward and providing praise where needed,” she   said. ’ ’  ’ ”   Trump also spoke to Kazakhstan President Nursultan Nazarbayev,   the former first secretary of the country’s communist party. ” ’   Kazakhstan has become an increasingly authoritarian country,   and Nazarbayev has been accused of restricting the press and   rigging elections. ’ ”   The Kazakh government’s  of Nazarbayev’s phone call with Trump mirrored   Pakistan’s in its detail, candor, and language. ” ’   ”The US   brought congratulations to the Head of   State on the 25th anniversary of Kazakhstan’’s Independence,” the   press release said. ”D. Trump stressed that under the   leadership of Nursultan Nazarbayev our country over the years of   Independence had achieved fantastic success that can be called a   ’’miracle. ’’” ’ ’   The release also declared that Trump   and Nazarbayev ”declared determination of taking   friendly   relations to a new level, including   trade and economic partnership.” Trump also reportedly expressed   interest in arranging a meeting with Nazarbayev. ’