’  ’ ’   Diversification is generally considered one of the basic tenets   of investing and financial planning. Owning a mix of assets,   ideally   —   including, stocks,   bonds, real estate and gold, for example  —   is Investing 101. ’ ’   That is  …     unless you’re one of the world’s most famous investors. ’ ’   I recently sat down with Jim Rogers and asked for his thoughts on   global markets, what he’s buying now, where  and  …     asset   allocation. (You have the chance to see the entire video  —   Jim   Rogers unplugged  —   by .) ’ ’   Jim doesn’t buy into the cult of asset allocation. ’ ’   “Well, I know that people are taught to diversify. But   diversification is just that’s something that brokers came up   with, so they don’t get sued,” Jim told me. Then he added, “If   you want to get rich  …     You have to concentrate and focus. ” ’ ’   This obviously goes against conventional thinking. But this kind   of thinking is what made Jim one of the world’s most successful   investors. He   the Quantum Fund  —   one of the world’s   most successful hedge funds  —   which saw returns of 4200 percent   in ten years. ’ ’   He quit   investing in 1980 and went on to travel the   world a few times. He also wrote several books about what he saw   and learned. Even if you’re not a travel or money junkie and know   little about finance, these are some of the most educational and   entertaining books you’ll ever read about investing. ’ ’ Why (maybe) you should diversify ’ ’   I’ve also written about the importance of diversification to   reduce risk in your portfolio. As the saying goes, don’t put all   your eggs in one basket. But you also need to make sure they’re    either. ’ ’   Diversification can limit the risks that are specific to a   company or industry. For example, bad (or fraudulent) company   management is a   risk. An airline employee strike,   which has an   impact, is an industry risk. These are   called “diversifiable risks” because they aren’t directly related   to the broad financial market system. ’ ’   Market risk (also called “systematic risk” because it relates to   the financial system as a whole) is unavoidable for anyone   investing in financial markets. Market risk is affected by things   like interest rates, exchange rates and recessions.   Diversification can’t touch market risk. ’ ’   The graph below shows these two types of risk. Every investor is   subject to systematic risk. Diversifiable risk is higher if a   portfolio includes a small number of holdings. And diversifiable   risk declines as the number of holdings in a portfolio increases    —   to a certain point. Having a portfolio with five securities   definitely beats a portfolio of just one security. But   diversifying beyond 30 securities doesn’t bring any additional   benefits in reducing overall portfolio risk. ’ ’  ’ ’   But Jim Rogers disagrees. “The expression on Wall Street is,   don’t put all of your eggs in one basket. Ha! You should put all   of your eggs in one basket,” he told me. “But be sure you’ve got   the right basket and make sure you watch the basket very, very   carefully. ” ’ ’   Now, of course this strategy of putting all your eggs in one   basket  …     but making sure it’s the right basket, is not for   everyone. It’s a high risk, high reward strategy. ’ ’   And Jim acknowledges that. “If you don’t get it right, you’re   going to lose everything. But if you get it right, you’re going   to get very rich. And by the way, don’t think it’s easy getting   it right. It’s not easy. It takes a lot of insight and work and   everything else. But, if you get it right, you’ll be very rich. ” ’ ’   Jim shared a lot of other insight with me  …     and you can find out   how to see the entire exclusive video by . ’