’  ’ ’   The first   vehicle Anthony Levandowski built .  ’ ”   But it’s not going to be the only time the     engineer will create history. In the last 13 years, Levandowski   has watched the   car industry go from crazy   motorcycle challenges to pizza deliveries to a real thing that is   going to change the future of the world.  ” ’   ”Just like the natural evolution of the horse and buggy was the   car. This is the next thing,” Levandowski said. ” ’ ”   One of the pioneers of autonomous vehicles, Levandowski was the   brains behind much of Google’s   efforts. He left   Google last year to create his own startup, Otto, which retrofits   trucks to make them autonomous. Three months after its   public debut, Otto was bought by Uber in exchange for 1% of the   company  —   a deal valued at nearly $680 million. Plus they get a   20% cut of all future profits from the trucking division.  ” ”   Now, Levandowski runs both the   car and trucking   divisions at Uber and is the man in charge of a bet that Uber’s   CEO Travis Kalanick says the company can’t afford to lose. ” ”   Business Insider talked with Levandowski about what it was like   to be at the beginning of the   car industry  —   and how   it’s going to change the future as we know it. The following   Q&A has been lightly condensed and edited for   clarity.  ” ’Biz Carson: Before you started running the     car show at Uber and before Google, you’d already   had an interest in   vehicles. But you didn’t start   with a car. How did you get into this  —   and why even start with a   motorcycle?  ’ ’Anthony Levandowski: In 2003, my mom   actually gave me a call, which is funny because she works at the   European Union in Brussels, Belgium, and let me know that there’s   a cool competition with robots across the desert. And I thought   this was definitely something I wanted to be a part of. This was   the . ’ ’   A friend of mine, Randy Miller and I, we went to their first   conference describing what they were thinking of doing. It was   described basically as a race from L. A. to Vegas, across the   mountains and across the desert. And on the drive back from L. A.   a motorcycle kinda passed us on Highway 5. It was clearly faster   than all the cars and more nimble, and it can lane split. And we   were like “Wow, there’s your answer. A motorcycle is clearly   going to be faster in   terrain than a car or truck or   SUV, whatever you want.” ’ ’   That was a mistake. I learned a lot, but I would not recommend   anybody for doing   motorcycles anytime soon. It’s   just really hard. We spent a year to make the technology work so   that we could drive 20 feet. That’s something you can do in like   one day if you go straight to a car. ’ ’Carson: So when you were working on the     motorcycle, it was more of a fun challenge. Was   there a moment when you realized that this was going to change   how everyone’s driving or that in 10 years there will be     taxis going around Pittsburgh? What did you make of   it all back in 2003? ’ ’Levandowski: When we got the tech kind of   finally working, “working” is in quotes because there was a lot   of things that were missing, but working well enough that it   would go, it was kind of a very special moment. It was realizing   ”Wow, this is going to work.” ’ ’   Things are becoming alive. The motorcycle is able to do things on   its own. I don’t have to babysit it. And by things, it’s like   drive on the road on its own, it could turn, it could come   around, stuff like that. ’ ’  ’ ’   The day of the race, even at the qualifying event, when you saw   all of these people getting there cars kind of working,  you   could really feel there was something special about “Wow, it   would be really cool if a car could show up and drive somewhere. ” ’ ’   It wasn’t clear at the time that it would be in a     situation. It kind of felt more at the time it would be package   delivery, like your pizza gets delivery by a robot kind of thing.   Which is why a couple years later, in 2008, I built a robot that   delivered a pizza from downtown San Francisco to Treasure Island.   And that was really cool. That really kind of cemented that this   is super interesting. It’s kind of the equivalent of going up the   elevator instead of walking up the stairs. You can kind of have a   magic carpet that takes something somewhere for you. ’ ’Carson: Between 2003 and 2008, you joined   Google but not to work on   cars at first. So after   having this kind of magical moment with the motorcycle, why   didn’t you continue with the project? ’ ’Levandowski: I was 22 at the time when I   first discovered that. So, it was hard for me to personally   imagine like “Oh I’m going to make the cars that everybody in the   world is going to use. ” I like incremental improvements or at   least seeing where you’re going to go and really being able to   understand what’s feasible at the time. ’ ’    I’d just a) had this magical moment but b) I also had a   very real reminder that if you do too much it’s not going to work   by having the motorcycle specifically not work compared to the   cars that were a lot of work. ’ ’   So, I was really in the mode of focusing on let’s make something   that’s very applicable directly. I met and talked with a fellow   named Sebastian Thrun, who is now a really good friend. At the   time, we were looking at how the logs from these robots are   recorded and trying to figure out what the problems are. Instead   of looking at it through time, we could look at it through space.   So think of it as if you want to see what it looks like at this   intersection, which was kind of a weird concept, we were logging   the   video. So that’s one way to take the problem we   have and solve it right away while still being involved in   something similar, or in that particular space. ’ ’Carson: So then when did you come back to   the   car problem? And when you did come back to the   space, how much did you look ahead to say this will change cities   or it will decrease how many cars are owned privately? Was that   vision there from the beginning? ’ ’Levandowski: It was too early to call it   the   car space because there was zero people working   on it. [Laughs] ’ ’   After I joined Google and stopped working on robots  —   I’d built   some   tractors on farms in the meantime  —   I was   always tinkering and playing with robots at home and just as a   hobby. When we finished my second project at Google, the first   was building StreetView and the second was taking the StreetView   data then building out the maps database that you use on your   phone to do    navigation for free, then this TV show   came about. The producer I knew previously and he was like “Hey   can you get the motorcycle out? I’d like to deliver a pizza with   it. ” ’ ’   I was like ”Oh that’s not the right way to deliver a pizza. And   the motorcycle is in the Smithsonian and I don’t think they’re   going to be down with me borrowing it to do a little demo and   bringing it back.” You don’t check things out like that like a   library. So he was like “Ok that’s fine, but can you build   something in a month to deliver the pizza?” I accepted his   “challenge” and we built a car from scratch in roughly a month to   drive from downtown S. F. to Treasure Island to deliver a pizza. ’ ’   Now it’s not as hard of a problem because we had a police escort.   And they closed down the roads we were on, and we didn’t have to   stop for traffic lights. It’s a much lower bar of work and   technical capability. And we got stuck exiting on the Bay Bridge.   But we ended up delivering the pizza. So that’s how I got back   in.  ’ ’ ’ ’   The funny part was that I asked Google being like “Hey is it ok   if I can do this?” and Google was like “yeah OK have fun. We’re   not in the robot car space at all. In fact, we want you to   clarify that it’s not because we don’t want to have any accident   or liability or any kind of issue that might come out of running   a car across San Francisco with nobody in it.” ’ ’   That was 2008. I got really excited about it and getting back in.   It was more of a ”we need to do this”. ’ ’Carson: You said the   car space   at that point was just you guys. Eventually Google ended up   buying your company. When did others start catching on so that   this become a serious business for the future than a “fun   challenge” of a robot delivering pizza? ’ ’Levandowski: I think, like all big things,   you don’t know they’re going to be a big thing when you start.   You just kind of like play because it’s fun and it’s interesting   and then it turns out to be way more important than you expected.   While working at Google nobody had expectations when we started   the project of where this would go. We definitely met with all   the car companies and they’re like “No. Yhis is never going to be   a thing. It’s not possible, it’s not allowed. ” Just all kinds of   reasons why they were not willing to participate. ’ ’   And then when we,  discovering that we were testing   and driving the vehicles in public, that’s when all the car   companies realized at the first level that something might   happen. But it took many years after that getting closer and   closer to the actual goal before we get to the state now where   for most people, it seems like the natural evolution of the car   will be a   car. Just like the natural evolution of   the horse and buggy was the car. This is the next thing. ’ ’Carson: Did you have that realization at   some point? Like an awakening? When did it change for you? ’ ’Levandowski: I realized there was something   special when we did the pizza delivery because I hadn’t slept in   a couple days, so I didn’t realize it that day, but looking at it   later on it, it just works. It’s going to be amazing. When we   realized it would actually be the way of people moved around in   the future, I think much later. ’ ’   I don’t have a specific date and time. It wasn’t on a Tuesday at   4 a. m. when I woke up and said “Oh shit. ” There was nothing like   that. It’s more of when you see it working without errors, even   though you know the technology is not ready yet, but when you’ve   seen it driving you for hours, you realize this is special. ’ ’   For me, that specific moment was after we completed our first 100     trip start to finish with no interventions, with no manual   takeover, that this was a specific goal that we had for us. There   was three of us there  —    and myself  —   and after we did this, it was super   powerful. We just celebrated because, wow, this car just drove   from Santa Cruz to Cambria. It didn’t drive it well. It braked   late in the turns and accelerated too slow afterwords. We didn’t   have it all tuned well. ’ ’   You could see the essence was there. The idea had been born and   had been shown. From there to getting it working everywhere was   just the problem of figuring out all the test cases that are   broken and fixing them and not inventing new fundamental things. ’ ’Carson: What made you leave Google then and   found Otto? ’ ’Levandowski: I worked there for almost 9   years and I did a lot of great things, but for me it was about my   time to do my own thing. I was excited about   trucks   and a new company was the right place to do that. I really want   to get the technology out it into the world. And doing it on   trucks is probably the shortest path. There was a bunch of   people who thought the same as I did and who joined me. There’s   no single event, other than it was time for me to do my own   things. ’ ’  ’ ’Carson: Why are trucks the shortest path to   the future of automation in vehicles? ’ ’Levandowski: Trucks mainly drive on   highways and highways are a very structured environment. Meaning,   everyone’s going the same direction. There’s no traffic lights.   There’s no stop signs. There’s no cross traffic. There’s no   pedestrians. Yet it’s a very long journey, so it’s monotonous.   It’s kind of tiring. And a human can only do so much of it. So if   you’re a truck driver, you’re driving as much as you can, which   legally for some is 11 hours. Some cheat because they have to   make more money. Some cheat because they have to. Some cheat   because they want to go home. At the end of the day, it’s a   grueling job. There’s 50, 000 truck driver shortage in the   workforce today. The technology required to drive in the highway   versus driving in the city is very different. It’s maybe 20 to 50   times easier. So for us it made sense as a startup to go after a     truck and bringing the trucking industry into the   future. And the technology required to do that was much easier, I   would say doable as a startup. Building a    car   to move passengers is much much much more ambitious and much more   complicated. ’ ’Carson: Now you’re in charge of both the     cars at Uber and the trucking. A lot of what Uber   has talked about is this future where UberPool will dominate,   that you won’t have as many cars privately owned, that people   will be shuttered around in this   driverless future.   Is that really what will be happening to the world in 20 years?   It seems like we’re just starting with trucks, and if that’s 50   times easier, how long will this take before we get to this   idealized world?   ’ ’Levandowski: That’s true. What I like is   that all of the experiences we do while driving a car or truck   counts towards making a safer and better driver. By doing trucks   and cars, you’re really just doing one thing, which is driving.   The trucking piece is helping you drive better on highways. The   car piece has its own city driving as well. ’ ’  ’ ’   I really do think the most important thing that computers are   going to do in the next 10 years is drive cars. ’ ’   If you think about it, there’s no good reason why you want to own   your own car. Your car is about safe, effective, and reliable   transportation and that’s what Uber is about as well. But with a   car, a lot of other things come. You can’t drive it after you go   out drinking with your friends. You can’t drive it when you’re   sleepy. You have to go park it. A lot of times you have to go   fill it up. You have to wash it, you have to do all kinds of   maintenance. ’ ’   But if you just had the right car you wanted for the right time,   then all these problems kind of go away. For me, it’s crystal   clear that the future is shared   vehicles, both cars   and trucks. In 20 years, I think it will be weird for people to   say ”I’m getting my driver’s license.” There’s no need for that.   I have two young kids, a    and a    and I just   don’t think they’re going to get their driver’s license. Uber   will have the technology both on the   side and on   the   side that they just won’t need to drive. ’ ’Carson: Well how much pushback do you think   there will be from the public? To me, America sometimes is   synonymous with the open road and Route 66 and this kind of   freedom and individualism that comes with owning your own car and   having your destiny. ’ ’Levandowski: I love that. But when was the   last time you drove on route 66, or any road that resembles how a   car commercial describes what owning a car is going to be like?   Like never. I’ve never driven on any part. ’ ’Carson: I actually drove on Route 66 a few   years ago when I moved across the country. ’ ’Levandowski: Ok good. I drove across the   country on Highway 80 and it wasn’t anything fun. We were saving   money because we had to drive across the country. ’ ’   Driving 90+% of the time just isn’t fun. It’s about   transportation. It’s about getting there. If when you do want to   drive and it’s an activity, then go do that. Enjoy it. It’s   great. Your stick shift car in traffic is not great. If you   actually enjoy commuting in traffic every day back and forth and   enjoy searching for 20 minutes for a parking space in San   Francisco when you get home, then great, you should continue to   do that. I’m not saying we’re banning the ownership of cars.   We’re just giving people more freedom of choice. ’ ’   You just won’t have to drive. Driving is the number one cause of   fatalities in the US today. If it was a disease, it would be an   epidemic. It would be out of control. ’ ’Carson: With this future though, how will   cities change? And can they change fast enough to even meet the   needs of   vehicles? ’ ’Levandowski: Cities just react to the tools   that exist today. A lot of cities were built around before there   were this many cars. You can see pictures of downtown San   Francisco of like trolleys, and horses and carriages and maybe a   few earlier automobiles. And then they figured out how to adapt   to that. I think it’s the same thing with   cars and   Uber in general or ridesharing. ’ ’   We have a cultural value that is celebrate the cities. So   everything that we do that we do is about helping people get to   where they want to go safely and reliably. The city itself   doesn’t really need to change. We’re building the technology to   drive what the city is today. And if by removing car ownership,   maybe you don’t need parking, maybe we can have parking   structures that turn into parks. Maybe there’s more sidewalk   space. Maybe there’s more bike lanes. There’s all kinds of   changes that can happen. I don’t know what they’re going to be   and I think the city planners are much more equipped to deal with   that than I am. But all I can say is that I’m focused on making   sure this technology comes as safely and as soon as possible. ’