’  ’ ’   The Federal Reserve on Wednesday decided to raise its benchmark   interest rate, as expected, and  for the number of rate hikes in 2017. ’ ’   This move, which markets saw a 100% probability of, will increase   the target of the federal funds rate  —   which banks use to lend to   each other overnight  —   by 25 basis points, to a range of 0. 50 to   0. 75%. ’ ’   This was the second rate hike in a decade. By continuing to lift   rates from near zero, the Fed is slowly ending the era of   unprecedented monetary policy support and giving the economy room   to advance without it. A higher fed funds rate will lift rates on   things like credit cards and mortgages and test the extent to   which consumer spending and business investment can propel the   economy without Fed stimulus. ’ ’   In its unanimous decision, the Federal Open Markets Committee   noted improvement in the jobs market and the drop in the   unemployment rate to a prerecession low. It noted the rise in   inflation, partly due to more stable oil prices, and said   expectations for higher prices had risen ”considerably.” ’ ’   2017 may be the year that fiscal policy starts to support the   economy in a significant way as   Donald Trump   enters office. Trump has pledged to cut taxes for corporations   and individuals and to invest about $550 billion in   infrastructure. Wall Street already thinks these steps will spur   economic growth and inflation while supporting company earnings;   stocks surged to new highs after the election, while bonds sold   off. ’ ’  ’ ”   Trump’s proposals are still uncertain, meaning the Fed is   unlikely to capture the full extent of their effects in its   outlook right now. The Fed’s outlook for economic growth,   inflation, and unemployment was little changed from its   projections in September. ” ”   When the Fed in December 2015 moved for the first time since the   financial crisis, it projected four rate hikes this year.   However, it whiffed big on that estimate as the realities of   market volatility, sluggish inflation, and underwhelming economic   growth set in. To be fair, the Fed’s projections were always   conditional on incoming data. ” ’   The Fed expects to raise rates three times during the next three   years. ’ ”   Here’s the full : ” ’   ”Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to   foster maximum employment and price stability. The Committee   expects that, with gradual adjustments in the stance of monetary   policy, economic activity will expand at a moderate pace and   labor market conditions will strengthen somewhat further.   Inflation is expected to rise to 2 percent over the medium term   as the transitory effects of past declines in energy and import   prices dissipate and the labor market strengthens further.     risks to the economic outlook appear roughly balanced.   The Committee continues to closely monitor inflation indicators   and global economic and financial developments. ’