’  ’ ’   WASHINGTON (AP)  —   The Obama administration suggested Thursday   that Russian President Vladimir Putin personally authorized the   hacking of Democratic officials’’ email accounts in the   to   the presidential election and said it was ”fact” that hacking had   helped   Donald Trump’’s campaign. The White House   also leveled an astounding attack on Trump himself, saying he   must have known of Russia’’s interference. ’ ”   No proof was offered for any of the accusations, the latest to   unsettle America’s uneasy transition from eight years under   Democratic President Barack Obama to a new Republican   administration led by Trump. The claims of Russian meddling in   the election also have heightened already debilitating tensions   between Washington and Moscow over Syria, Ukraine and a host of   other disagreements. ” ’   After an NBC News report quoted U. S. intelligence officials   pointing the finger specifically at Putin, White House press   secretary Josh Earnest pointed to an October assessment of the   U. S. intelligence community that said ”only Russia’’s     officials could have authorized these activities.” ’ ’   Earnest said the reference to ”  officials” wasn’’t   supposed to be subtle. ”It’’s pretty obvious,” he told reporters. ’ ”   The explosive accusation paints the leader of perhaps the   nation’s greatest geopolitical foe as having directly undermined   U. S. democracy. No U. S. officials have claimed, however, that   Trump would have been defeated by Hillary Clinton on Nov. 8 if   not for Russia’s assistance. Nor has there has been any   indication of tampering with the  . ” ’   The Kremlin flatly rejected the claim of Putin’’s involvement,   with Putin spokesman Dmitry Peskov on Thursday dismissing it as   ”laughable nonsense.” ’ ”   The White House on Thursday also was harshly critical of Trump,   who has dismissed the allegations of Russian interference as the   partisan anger of Democrats over losing the election. Trump’s   criticism has opened up a deep rift between the intelligence   community and its incoming commander in chief. ” ’  ’ ’   It is ”obvious” that Trump knew of Russia’’s behavior during the   campaign, Earnest said, also disputing Trump’’s claim that he was   joking when he encouraged Russia to find emails that Clinton had   deleted from her private email server. ’ ’   No one in the White House, Congress or the intelligence community   found it ”funny” that a U. S. adversary was trying to ”destabilize   our democracy,” he said. ’ ”   U. S. intelligence officials have linked the hacking to Russia’s   intelligence agency and its military intelligence division.   Moscow has denied all accusations that it orchestrated the   hacking of email accounts of Democratic Party officials and   Clinton’s campaign chief, John Podesta, and then leaked them to   the   website WikiLeaks. ” ”   Democrats pounced on the latest suggestions of Putin being   connected to the daily drip of emails during the presidential   race from some of Clinton’s closest advisers. ” ’   Putin was ”clearly involved,” said outgoing Senate Minority   Leader Harry Reid. ’ ’   ”Having been the former head of the KGB, does that surprise you?”   Reid said. ”And does it surprise anybody today when he denied   it?” ’ ’   On Wednesday, Sen. Dianne Feinstein of California, the senior   Democrat on the Senate intelligence committee, said it is hard to   think that Putin didn’’t know about the operation. She called   suggestions that he was aware of the hacking ”very credible.” ’ ”   There has been no specific, persuasive evidence shared publicly   about the extent of Putin’s role or knowledge of the hackings.   That lack of proof undercuts Democrats’ strategy to portray   Putin’s involvement as irrefutable evidence of a directed Russian   government plot to undermine America’s democratic system. ” ”   But Democrats theorize that no such   espionage   operation could have been launched without Putin’s approval. ” ’   The NBC report said that the evidence is ”nearly   incontrovertible,” and that the intelligence comes from   ”diplomatic sources and spies working for U. S. allies.” It didn’’t   identify the countries involved or how they might have such   sensitive information from Putin’’s inner sanctum. ’