’  ’ ’   Mexican drug cartels control vast swaths of the US drug market,   but that influence remains heavily slanted in favor of the   vaunted Sinaloa cartel. ’ ’   The Sinaloa cartel is the oldest cartel currently operating in   Mexico, and it controls significant chunks of that country,   particularly on the Pacific coast. ’ ’   It has popped around the world, from  to  and  to . ’ ’   There are reasons to doubt the cohesion of the Sinaloa cartel,   especially in light of the protracted incarceration of its   nominal leader, Joaquín ”El Chapo” Guzmán, and recent reports of    of the group in   Sinaloa state, its heartland. ’ ”   But, according to the most recent report from the US Drug   Enforcement Administration, the Sinaloa cartel and traffickers   affiliated with it still control the lion’s share of the US   market for illegal narcotics. ” ”   It’s important to note that the Sinaloa cartel doesn’t function   quite like a traditional, hierarchical cartel. It is believed to   have a more horizontal structure, as an organization of allied   factions, frequently working together but often in control of   different aspects of the drug production, trafficking, and   distribution processes. ” ’  ’ ’   In the US, the Sinaloa cartel is one of six Mexican transnational   criminal organizations in operation, joining the Jalisco New   Generation cartel, the Juarez cartel, the Gulf cartel, Los Zetas   cartel, and the Beltran Leyva Organization. ’ ’   ”The Sinaloa Cartel exports and distributes wholesale amounts of   methamphetamine, marijuana, cocaine, and heroin in the United   States by maintaining key distribution hubs in Phoenix, Los   Angeles, Denver, and Chicago, among other cities,” the DEA   reports. ’ ’    ’ ’   In many instances, the Sinaloa cartel and other Mexican cartels     —     particularly the    —   to sell the drugs to consumers. These   interactions help Mexican organizations expand their influence,   the DEA reports, and ”insulates Mexican TCOs from direct ties to     drug seizures and arrests made by US law   enforcement.” ’ ”   According to the DEA’s assessment, however, the amount of US   territory controlled by Mexican cartels has shifted slightly from   2015 to 2016. ” ’  ’ ’   Most notably, the Juarez cartel has reportedly seen its dominance   in most of New Mexico eroded by the Sinaloa cartel. ’ ’   ”Though not as expansive as its rival,” the Sinaloa cartel, with   which it fought a multiyear war for control of Ciudad Juarez,   ”the Juarez Cartel continues to impact United States drug   consumer markets primarily in Denver, Chicago, Oklahoma, and   Kansas City,” the DEA reports. ’ ’    ’ ”   South Texas remains a redoubt of the Gulf cartel, despite that   organization’s clashes with Mexican law enforcement, rival   cartels, and between internal factions. ” ’   ”Due to its territorial dominance over areas in northeastern   Mexico, the Gulf cartel smuggles the majority of its drug   shipments between the Rio Grande Valley and South Padre Island in   south Texas,” the DEA’’s report says. ”In recent years, the Gulf   cartel has weakened due to the arrest of key leaders in Mexico   and   conflict, which has led to a decline in its drug   trafficking influence in the United States.” ’ ’  ’ ’   The ascendant Jalisco New Generation cartel, formed from  has also made inroads in the US. ’ ’   It has concentrated in some areas of California, appeared in   South Florida and the Pacific Northwest, and set up outposts on   the East Coast. ’ ’   ”Much like the Sinaloa Cartel, CJNG is a   trafficking   organization dealing in wholesale amounts of primarily   methamphetamine, but also cocaine, heroin, and marijuana,” the   DEA notes, adding, ”CJNG has drug distribution hubs in the US   cities of Los Angeles and Atlanta.” ’ ’   The CJNG is believed to be engaging multiple rival organizations,   the Sinaloa cartel in particular, in . ’ ’   ”CJNG’’s rapid territorial expansion is characterized by the   organization’’s willingness to engage in violent confrontations   with Mexican Government security forces and rival cartels,” as in   a 2015  in which CJNG gunmen downed a   Mexican military helicopter, as well as more recent cases of   . ’