’  ’ ’   President Barack Obama hit at Russia and President Vladimir Putin   during his final     press conference. ’ ’   Obama stopped short of blaming Putin directly for hacks that   interfered with the US presidential election, but he still   pointed his finger in that direction. ’ ’   ”The intelligence that I’’ve seen gives me great confidence in   their assessment that the Russians carried out this hack,” he   said. ’ ”   Questions surrounding Russian interference in the election have   become a central focus in recent days amid  concluded   Russia interfered in the US election with the specific goal of   aiding Trump’s campaign. It was  that the FBI supported the   CIA’s findings. ” ”   Internal emails from members of the Democratic National Committee   and John Podesta, the chairman of Hillary Clinton’s campaign,   were leaked online throughout the campaign. The organization   WikiLeaks released a steady stream of Podesta’s emails in the   final weeks of the campaign. ” ’   Intelligence officials  that Putin himself was directly involved   in the hacks. And Obama seems to share that opinion, even if he   neglected to fully endorse it. ’ ’   ”Not much happens in Russia without Vladimir Putin,” Obama said.   ”This is pretty hierarchical operation. Last I checked, there’’s   not a lot of debate and democratic deliberation, particularly   when it comes to policies directed at the United States.” ’ ’   Obama also warned against allowing Russia to influence American   political culture. ’ ’   ”The Russians can’’t change us or significantly weaken us,” he   said. ”They are a smaller country. They are a weaker country.   Their economy doesn’’t produce anything that anybody wants to buy   except oil and gas and arms. They don’’t innovate. But they can   impact us if we lose track of who we are.” ’ ’   He also chided Republicans who support Putin. ’ ’   ”There was a survey that some of you saw where  —   now this is just   one poll, but a pretty credible source  —   that 37% of Republican   voters approve of Putin,” Obama said. ”Over a third of Republican   voters approve of Vladimir Putin, the former head of the KGB.   Ronald Reagan would roll over in his grave.” ’ ’   Trump was often criticized during the election for his apparent   fondness for Putin. Trump has often said that he would like the   US to have a closer and more cooperative relationship with   Russia. ’ ’   But many in the foreign policy community see Russia as an   adversary, especially considering the recent hacks. ’ ’  ’ ’   Obama detailed some of the US efforts to stop Russian hacking in   the future. ’ ’   ”What we can also do is to, on a bilateral basis, warn other   countries against these kinds of attacks,” Obama said. ”And we’’ve   done that in the past. So just as I told Russia to stop it and   indicated that there will be consequences when they do it, the   Chinese have in the past engaged in cyberattacks directed at our   companies to steal trade secrets and proprietary technology. . ..   What we’’ve seen is some evidence that they have reduced, but not   completely eliminated, these activities.” ’ ”   He also emphasized that not all of these efforts to deter   Russia’s cyberattacks are public. ” ’   ”Our goal continues to be to send a clear message to Russia or   others not to do this to us, because we can do stuff to you,”   Obama said. ”But it is also important for us to do that in a   thoughtful, methodical way. Some of it we do publicly. Some of it   we will do in a way that they know but not everybody will.” ’ ’   He continued: ”And I know that there have been folks out there   who suggest somehow that if we went out there and made big   announcements and thumped our chests about a bunch of stuff, that   somehow that would potentially spook the Russians, but keep in   mind that we already have enormous numbers of sanctions against   the Russians.” ’ ’   Obama also said that the ”idea that somehow public shaming is   going to be effective” in preventing future hacking ”doesn’’t read   the thought process in Russia very well.” ’ ’   Obama also reassured the public that while Russia might have   attempted to interfere with the US election, the voting process   was still sound. ’ ’   ”I can assure the public that there was not the kind of tampering   with the voting process that was a concern and will continue to   be a concern going forward, that the votes that were cast were   counted  —   they were counted appropriately. We have not seen   evidence of machines being tampered with,” Obama said. ’ ’   ”That doesn’’t mean that we find every single potential probe of   every single voting machine all across the country, but we paid a   lot of attention to it . .. and we feel confident that that didn’’t   occur.” ’