’  ’ ’   The stock market has staged a glorious rally since Donald Trump   won the US presidential election last month, and analyst after   analyst says that it is, in part, because of the promise of a   lowered tax rate on corporations. ’ ”   Trump and House Speaker Paul Ryan ( ) both have plans that   would lower the corporate tax rate from 35% (where it has been   sitting since John F Kennedy was president) to 15% (Trump’s plan)   or 20% (Ryan’s). ” ”   This sounds wonderful, but there’s some fine print. Not all   companies are going to have their taxes lowered. ” ”   Depending on a couple factors, some companies could see their tax   rate shoot up. One of those companies is former Wall Street   darling and current Wall Street headache, Valeant   Pharmaceuticals. We’ll get to that in a moment.  ” ’   Ideologically,  has always intended to ensure that big   corporations and small businesses pay the same rate. To do that,   he wants to eliminate a bunch of special preferences and   loopholes, like enhanced deductions and tax credits, that big   companies get in order to pay for the lowered rate. ’ ”   Trump’s plan includes a bunch of the same changes. ” ”   The special preference we’re talking about here is the deduction   for  ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   The Obama Administration, after failing to close this loophole   through policy, tried to tackle it  by creating a rule that classifies a portion of   debt held in US companies as equity. ’ ”   The problem is, Obama’s rule will only bring in   between  ” ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   The   plan, however, would write the elimination (or at   least significant limitation) of this deduction into code. That’s   where certain kinds of companies will start feeling the pain. The   trade off here is that foreign profits wouldn’t be taxed at all,   removing the incentive for companies to horde cash overseas. ” ’   So, you may be asking yourself  —   what kind of company would get   crushed by this kind of policy change? ’ ”   I submit you the   dollar international drugmaker   Valeant Pharmaceuticals. Years ago the company did a corporate   inversion by acquiring Canada’s Biovail in order to pay a lower   tax rate. It also has subsidiaries   in Ireland, Luxembourg and Switzerland, which   all have lower tax rates. The US, however, remains its largest   market. ” ’   Over the years, it has used this situation to pay a tax rate of   about 4% on its income. It did this, in part, by taking a $16. 5   billion loan from its Luxembourg subsidiary and putting it in its   US subsidiary. ’ ’   According to  that means the company will save   over $560 million over the next five years. ’ ’   The US government, naturally, has been upset about this. Former   CFO Howard Schiller testified at the same hearing as Koch, but   unlike Koch, he was on the defensive. ’ ’  ’ ”   However, former CEO Michael Pearson touted the company’s low tax   rate as a selling point when the company was making a   hostile bid for Allergan.  ” ’   ” ’ ’  ’ ”   This feature of Valeant’s business would vanish if the net   interest deduction were eliminated. That means  the company    —   which paid a tax bill of $76. 9 million on over $1. 5 billion of   operating income last year  —   would see that bill rise   substantially. In the same year, Valeant was holding just under   $600 million in cash. ” ”   This is perilous for a company that has seen its market cap fall   from over $40 billion to around $4. 6 billion over the last year.   Accusations of fraud and drug price gouging have sent investors   fleeing from the company, and it’s holding over $30 billion in   debt. The company’s annual report cites that debt (and any   reduction in cash flow hampering its ability to pay it) as a   risk.  ” ’   From the report: ’ ’   Valeant is not the only company that could get hit if the   interest deduction is eliminated. There are a number of companies   with this structure, including Mylan, the now infamous maker of   EpiPen medication. ’ ”   There’s no telling how Congress will handle these companies once   new legislation is passed and there’s a transitional phase as   American companies adjust. It could grandfather the debt that’s   already in the country and chalk these stripped earnings up to a   loss in terms of tax revenue. It could also phase in this debt   gradually. ” ’   Or, if Congress wants to be petty about this, it can single out   companies that have inverted for punishment. Hating inverters is   a bipartisan pastime in Washington, so experts tell Business   Insider that this is definitely not out of the realm of   possibility. ’ ’   Punishing perceived tax dodgers makes politicians look good to   their constituents and could possibly bring in     revenue. ’ ’   Check out this handy infographic of inverted companies from the   Democrats on the House Ways and Means Committee back in 2014. ’ ’  ’ ’     ’