’  ’ ”   Uber will continue operating   cars on San   Francisco streets, defying California regulators that claim it’s   running the program illegally.  ” ”   In a conference call with reporters on Friday, Uber’s vice   president of advanced technologies, Anthony Levandowski,   said that the company stands by its argument that its cars do not   meet the definition of autonomous vehicles.  ” ’   Despite using the moniker ” ” the cars are not   capable of driving without the active monitoring of a human in   the front seat, Levandowski said. ’ ”   Instead, Uber is arguing that its cars are more aligned with   electric car maker Tesla’s autopilot feature  —   an advanced driver   assistance system, but not a car that’s fully autonomous.  ” ’   ”T ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   The public spat between Uber and California regulators began on   Wednesday when  a new   car pilot .  ’ ”   As part of the pilot, Uber riders who request an UberX have a   chance to be matched with a   vehicle. While a   trained driver and engineer still have to sit in the front seat   and be ready to take over the controls at a moment’s notice, the   goal is to have the fleet of a dozen or so vehicles largely   driving themselves through the compact and crowded streets of a   big city. ” ’   Yet, Uber and the California DMV immediately started trading   barbs over whether or not its car program should be permitted   under California regulations. The DMV put out a statement saying   that Uber ”shall” get the permit to test its     vehicles on public roads, but the company  that it had no plans whatsoever   to apply for a permit since it didn’’t believe its cars fit the   state’’s definition of autonomous vehicles. Under the regulations,   advanced autopilot systems, like Tesla’’s, are not regulated   whereas Google’’s testing of its autonomous vehicle adheres to   strict rules. ’ ’   ” ’ ’  ’ ’   The DMV has disagreed with this from the start. The   agency  hours after the   testing had started, telling the   company to   stop the launch of its   car pilot or face legal   action.  ’ ’   ”Had Uber obtained an autonomous vehicle testing permit prior to   today, the company’’s launch would have been permissible,” the DMV   said. ”. .. If Uber does not confirm immediately that it will stop   its launch and seek a testing permit, DMV will initiate legal   action, including, but not limited to, seeking injunctive   relief.” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’