’  ’ ’   For a moment, it looked like the story would have a happy ending. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Choice assets and employees were cherry picked, the rest   discarded. Most employees out of Pebble’s staff of about 100   were laid off, their stock suddenly worthless. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Pebble burst on to the scene in 2012 after launching what   was then the most successful Kickstarter campaign in history,    to fund the production of the   first smartwatch. Pebble proved there was interest in the     gadgets, well before Apple introduced the Apple   Watch and other big tech companies followed suit. ’ ’   The first Pebble launched in early 2013 to positive reviews.   Although it appealed mainly to techies, the product was a solid   first attempt at a modern smartwatch. The watch could display   notifications like incoming texts and calendar alerts and run a   bunch of apps ranging from ESPN to Evenote. Pebble continued to   launch new products, including the Pebble Time, the first device   with Pebble’s new take on a smartwatch operating system. ’ ’  ’ ”   But things started getting hairy in 2015 when Apple, the world’s   largest technology company, released its     smartwatch.  ” ”   Migicovsky was unfazed by the new competition,  that he wasn’t worried Apple might cut into   his sales ” ”   The Apple Watch did initially boost interest in Pebble, as   consumers viewed Pebble’s product as a cheaper, more capable   alternative. ” ”   But sales eventually began to shrink, sources   say. Apple’s brand was so strong, recalls one insider,   that it sucked up all the oxygen.  ” ”   And Apple’s decades of   experience gave it   another big advantage. ” ”   Sources familiar with Pebble’s supply chain said the company had   difficulty paying suppliers building the products in Taiwan   throughout 2015, especially payments related to production of the   Pebble Time Round. In some cases, these suppliers would call for   payments on outstanding purchase orders and get no response from   Pebble. Some of those outstanding orders still remained unpaid by   the time Fitbit entered acquisition talks with Pebble. Some   people close to the company also blamed Pebble’s supply chain   team for playing favorites, attempting to move a lot of   production from   Quanta Computer to Compal   Electronics. ” ”   Pebble continued to raise money through Kickstarter, sales   of current products, and other private sources. But it wasn’t   enough to fund the production of new products.   ” ’  ’ ”   When Pebble’s head of sales sent an email to his   team after ” ’  ’ ”   Pebble’s business never fully rebounded, and internal discussions   began after the holiday shopping season about what changes needed   to happen so that the company could survive. In March of   2016, Pebble laid off 25% of its staff, . ” ’   Pebble began searching for more outside investment or a   possible buyer. One insider said they were asked to compile   internal data about sales, which fueled speculation Pebble was   trying to sell itself. By May of 2016, Migicosvky admitted to the   staff that the company was trying to sell, but that a deal had   recently fallen through. That deal turned out to be from   chipmaker Intel, which . ’ ”   It’s not clear why the deal fizzled, although it was Intel that   ultimately walked away, not Pebble. (The Pebble side wanted the   deal to happen.) One source close to Migicovsky said they   were told that Intel’s offer was initially higher than $70   million, but was lowered after due diligence. ” ’   ”Something rubbed him the wrong way and he was uncomfortable,”   the source close to Migicovsky said regarding the failed Intel   deal. ’ ’   A   collaboration with Japanese watchmaker   Citizen also proved disappointing.  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Following the failed acquisition talks and the round of   layoffs, Migicovsky leveled with his remaining employees late   this spring. If they wanted to stay and see Pebble through to the   end, their shares in the company would be doubled. If they wanted   to cut their losses and leave, they would receive a severance   package. While some took the buyout offer, most Pebble employees   stuck with the company, hoping new products like the Pebble Time   2 watch and Pebble Core, a tiny device that lets you listen to   Spotify music offline, would reinvigorate sales. ’ ’   In fact, Pebble Time 2 and Pebble Core were on track for their   launch at the beginning of 2017. As recently as a week before   discussions with Fitbit began, Pebble employees were visiting   their manufacturing partners in Asia and finalizing production   plans for the new devices, sources say. ’ ’       ’ ’    ’ ’   Once Migicovsky decided to sell the company, sources close to him   say that his main goal was to find a b  ’ ’  ’ ’   Fitbit turned out to be the only suitable buyer willing to   do that. While the Time 2 and Core products have been canceled,   Kickstarter backers will at least get their money back. ’ ’   Other aspects of the Fitbit deal have not unfolded as   expected, however. ’ ”   The original deal discussions had Fitbit, which makes   wearable products focused on health and fitness, acquiring all or   most of Pebble, including the staff, several sources told   Business Insider. But something changed as the deal was   negotiated and Fitbit ended up buying only the software   technology that runs Pebble’s products and hiring certain   employees.  ” ’   One source speculated that Fitbit was worried about its stock   price after delivering a disappointing sales forecast for the   fourth quarter, . Taking on all of   Pebble could’ve looked extra risky to Fitbit investors. ’ ’   A Fitbit spokesperson declined to comment. ’ ’   On the day Fitbit’s team came to visit Pebble’s office about a   month before the acquisition closed, many Pebble employees had   concerns about what would happen to upcoming products. One source   said Fitbit largely dodged those questions and that their true   intentions didn’t come to light until they began interviewing   Pebble employees. ’ ”   During the interviews, Fitbit quizzed Pebble employees on their   roles at the company, but in the end Pebble   employees learned there was no interest in the hardware   team. Fitbit didn’t even ask for resumes, according to one   source, instead just pulling in their LinkedIn profiles. Once it   became clear these interviews were going nowhere, Pebble hardware   employees were encouraged to apply to open positions on Fitbit’s   website. ” ”   By the time it was all over, most Pebble employees were sent home   with severance packages. Many others took the Fitbit offer, and   several former Pebble employees now list Fitbit as their employer   on LinkedIn. As for Migicovsky, he’ll be working at the startup   incubator Y Combinator next year. ” ”   Pebble’s software may live on within Fitbit products, but it’s   now up to other companies to prove whether Pebble’s   pioneering product represents the future of computing or just an   interesting footnote in history. ”