’  ’ ’   Google made a big move this week to push its   car   plans back into the spotlight. ’ ’   Google announced it was spinning out its   car unit   into an independent company called  on Tuesday. ’ ’   The tech giant has been working on autonomous   technology longer than anyone in the game. It first    under Sebastian Thrun, a Stanford professor lauded as the   founder of the   car. ’ ’   The concept of building a robot car was so bizarre at the   time it prompted Fiat Chrysler to launch a peculiar  in 2011: ’ ’   ”  driving, cars that park themselves, an unmanned car   driven by a   company? We’’ve seen that movie. It ends   with robots harvesting our bodies for energy.” ’ ’   Well, times have changed. Now Fiat Chrysler supplies Pacifica   minivans for Waymo. Major automakers like General Motors and Ford   are also investing in   cars. ’ ”   But even though Google has been in the   car space   longer than anyone else out there  —   before it was even considered   a legitimate space like it is today  —   it’s getting lapped by the   competition. ” ”   Google may know what it’s doing when it comes to refining     car technology, but it has been totally   lost when it comes to bringing a product to market. ” ’  ’ ’   Up until Tuesday, Google has set itself apart from competitors by   pursuing a fully   car built without a steering wheel   or pedals. That vision was embodied by its ”Koala” prototype cars   that have operated without driver controls since 2014 and don’’t   come with a driver’’s seat. ’ ’   But at its Waymo press event, CEO John Krafcik said the    and the   cars will be piloted by humans. ’ ’   Krafcik said the steering wheel will stay due to regulatory   issues, but that Google will keep pursuing Level 5 autonomy,   which is when a car can drive itself without any human input or   surveillance.  ’ ’   But  that,   among other things, allows for the testing of   cars   without a steering wheel, brake pedal, or human in the front   seat. Google was one of several companies that helped shape the   legislation. ’ ’   Now, Michigan is just one state, and it in no ways guarantees   that kind of legislation will make its way through on the federal   level. But at the very least it gave Google an opportunity to   showcase its vision on public roads, so why back out now? ’ ’   The most likely explanation is that Google has changed its   strategy to get its product to market faster. Goodbye Koala pod   cars operating without a steering wheel, hello     cars with   tech. ’ ’  ’ ’   “We are a   technology company. We’ve made it pretty   clear we are not a car company,” Krafcik said at the Waymo event. ’ ’   Ultimately, it seems the pressure to get something to the   market has won out. ’ ’ reported in   September that it was Alphabet CEO Larry Page that continued to   push for full autonomy, even though staff members pointed out it   was holding back progress. ’ ”   Google employees explored partial autonomy, along the lines   of Tesla Autopilot, in 2012. But when the company saw a   driver’s attention began to drift, Google decided to pursue full   autonomy at all costs, Bloomberg reported. That decision led many   staff members to leave Google and pursue   car   projects that held more promise of making it to market. ” ’   Now, Krafcik has made it crystal clear that Waymo is still   committed to Level 5 autonomy, but integrating     tech into a car with standard driver controls certainly shows an   acquiesce to keep things more consumer friendly. ’ ”   After all, it’s unlikely consumers wants their first   experience with a   car to be one without any   semblance of control.  ” ’ reported Monday that   Waymo is ultimately planning to leverage its existing   partnership with Fiat Chrysler to release a line of robot taxis   in 2017. That decision highlights the pressure Google feels from   Uber, which launched a   car pilot in Pittsburgh in   September (though its recent  could put the   company in legal trouble.) ’ ”   Krafcik said at the Waymo event that Google was interested in   using its   technology for   but didn’t   comment on The Information report. ” ’   But even acknowledging the prospect of a   service   shows Google is readying to bring something to market. ’ ”   Uber, naturally, isn’t the only competitor in Google’s path. ” ”   Tesla CEO Elon Musk announced in October that its cars are   currently being built with fully driverless hardware. He   also plans to launch a   service,  for Tesla’s   cars. ” ”   General Motors is also interested in integrating its     car vision with its . It has also   invested $500 million in Lyft, Uber’s competitor. ” ’   Whether Google will actually launch its   tech in   a   service consumers can experience in 2017 has yet   to be seen. ’ ”   But Google will need to continue to adapt to get its     tech to market before rivals that entered the   car   space after it take up the market. It’s decision to keep the   steering wheel shows one step in that direction, what comes next   could decide whether Google stays relevant in this space. ” ’ The opinions expressed in this article are those of the   author. ’ ’     ’