’  ’ ”   Sam Altman is putting a lot of faith in the idea that giving   people free money will make them happier and healthier, but that   doesn’t mean he’s betting it all. ” ”   Altman is the president of  Silicon Valley’s   largest startup accelerator. Beginning in 2017, he and a group of   YC researchers are  in Oakland, California, where roughly 100   families will get $2, 000 a month. ” ’   The goal is to capture data that reveals if free money on a   regular basis (known as a basic income) really does help people   escape poverty and live healthier lives. ’ ’   Enormous piles of data from underdeveloped countries, such as   Kenya and Honduras,  people do see those benefits. But the US is   uncharted territory for basic income. Skeptics say Americans have   an ingrained instinct for work that basic income could fail to   override. ’ ”   Altman, one of Silicon Valley’s largest champions for basic   income, admits even he retains some of that doubt. ” ’’ ’   ”I believe that when automation comes, we will have enough extra   money that the math will work,” he tells Business Insider.   Meaning, when robots and artificial intelligence  basic income   could be a way out. ’ ’   ”What’’s unclear to me,” Altman continues, ”is will people be     or are we just so dependent on our jobs for meaning   and fulfillment?” ’ ’   Altman envisions a scenario in which the majority of Americans,   fresh off their initial basic income payments, become perfectly   content to sit at home in their virtual reality headsets. He   questions whether that future is necessarily better than the   stimulation and (modest) physical activity found in commuting to   work and chatting with coworkers. ’ ’   ”People do form bonds with their community and their society   through work,” he says. ”And I think it does contribute to our   national cohesion.” ’ ”   Staunch basic income advocates don’t necessarily disagree with   Altman, but they also don’t share his pessimism that basic income   will produce a society of couch potatoes. Many say the system    to do different kinds of work  —     work they find more satisfying than the kind that pays the bills. ” ”   In other words, accountants could paint more. Lawyers could   practice the drums more. Everyone with a hobby could make that   their sole focus. And yes, people who like VR could use VR to   their heart’s desire. ” ’   How the future shakes out could come down to how Americans learn   about such a system: As psychologist Daniel Kahneman once    ”People don’’t choose between things, they choose   between descriptions of things.” ’ ”   If basic income is presented as a radical style of welfare, it’s   likely to upset people who already oppose welfare in its current   form. People who see value in work for its own sake could bristle   at the idea of severing income from a work requirement. ” ”   On the other hand, if it’s presented as a  people might see basic   income as inherently more American than the existing labor   structure. Citizens could finally do the work that matters most   to them rather than the work that pays the best. ” ”   The future hasn’t arrived yet, so it’s impossible to know what   kind of effects an overhaul of that scale  —   free money for all,   no strings attached  —   would end up having. Until the data offers   that clarity, Altman says, he’ll continue experimenting with tiny   versions of the future to see which look the most appealing. ”