’  ’ ’   Actress Zsa Zsa Gabor, who parlayed beauty,     glamor and nine marriages into a long celebrity career, died on   Sunday, Variety and other media outlets reported, She was 99. ’ ’   Ed Lozzi, a publicist for Gabor, told Variety that the     actress, who would have turned 100 in February,   passed away at her home on Sunday afternoon. No additional   information about her death was available, and Lozzi could not be   reached immediately. ’ ’   Gabor, by most accounts, had a personality that generally   outshone her acting skills. Her bubbly demeanor and looks helped   land her a string of wealthy husbands. She had a penchant for   calling everyone ” ” in her thick Hungarian accent. Along   with her two sisters, Eva and Magda, she became a fixture on   Hollywood’’s social circuit in her prime. ’ ’   She was once branded ”the most expensive courtesan since Madame   de Pompadour,” but Gabor insisted that only her marriage to   husband No. 2, hotel mogul Conrad Hilton, was financially   motivated. ’ ’   In fact, marriage could have been the Gabor family business and   Zsa Zsa, the company’’s CEO. Her nine marriages topped the five by   Eva, who starred in the 1960s sitcom ”Green Acres,” and the six   of Magda, whose Hollywood career was mostly based on being the   third Gabor sister. ’ ’’ ’   While her acting skills were rarely lauded, Zsa Zsa Gabor carved   out a career in her early days in Hollywood. Her finest film   roles came with ”Moulin Rouge,” where she earned good reviews, in   1952 and ”Lili” in 1953. ’ ’   She appeared in more than 30 movies and by the 1970s she began to   reject smaller roles, saying: ”I may be a character but I do not   want to be a character actress.” ’ ’   Gabor eventually ended up in   films with such titles as   ”Queen of Outer Space” and ”Picture Mommy Dead.” ’ ’   Greater success came with nightclub and TV appearances where she   disclosed she called everyone ” ” because she could not   remember names well, and she relied on   jokes based   on her marriages, haughty demeanor and taste for opulence. ’ ’   ”I am a marvelous housekeeper. Every time I leave a man, I keep   his house,” she was quoted as saying. ’ ”   Gabor, one of the last stars of Hollywood’s golden age, was not   seen in public in her final years as she struggled with her   health, including broken bones and cuts from a car accident. She   also suffered a stroke and a broken hip, enduring complications   from hip replacement surgery. She had much of her right leg   amputated in 2011 because of an infection. ” ”   Gabor’s most recent stint at the hospital came just days after   her 99th birthday in February 2016 for breathing difficulties. ” ’   Born Sari Gabor into a wealthy family, she was named Miss Hungary   in the 1930s. When World War Two approached, Zsa Zsa and her   sisters headed for the United States, leaving behind her first   husband, Burhan Belge, a Turkish diplomat. ’ ’   Soon after arriving in Hollywood, where Eva was working as an   actress, Gabor married Hilton, with whom she had a daughter,   Francesca, who died in January 2015. ’ ’   In 1949, after divorcing Hilton, Gabor married British actor   George Sanders, whom she later was to call her one true love.   Sanders would end up married to Magda. ’ ”   In addition to Belge, Hilton and Sanders, Gabor was married to   New York businessman Herbert Hutner, oilman Joshua Cosden, Barbie   doll designer Jack Ryan, her divorce lawyer Michael O’Hara, Count   Felipe de Alba of Mexico and Frederic Prinz von Anhalt. ” ”   The marriage to de Alba was annulled because her divorce from   O’Hara was not final at the time of the wedding. The 1986   marriage to von Anhalt, which lasted until her death, was by far   her longest. ” ’   Throughout her Hollywood heyday, Gabor listed her birthday only   as Feb. 6, steadfastly refusing to reveal the year. A former   spokesman, John Blanchette, said she was born in 1917. ’ ”   In 1989, Gabor’s temper landed her in jail for three days after   she slapped a policeman who had stopped her   because   of an expired license tag. She emerged from jail complaining   about the food. ” ”   She sued Francesca in 2005, saying her daughter had taken out a   loan against Gabor’s Bel Air, California, home and used the   transaction to steal $2 million. ” ’     ’ ’   (Reporting by Bill Trott in Washington; Additional reporting by   Frank McGurty in New York; Editing by Diane Craft and Peter   Cooney) ’