’’ ’With a net worth of  Warren Buffett is the   person in the world, behind only his good friend .’ ”But to those who knew him from the beginning, Buffett’s success comes as no surprise: He was  and had . ” ’Inspired by  asking ”What are some   facts about Warren Buffett,” we rounded up 24 astonishing facts about the ”Oracle from Omaha” and his massive amount of wealth. ’ ’’ ”Buffett’s legendary career all began with an epiphany at age 10 when he was on a trip to New York City with his dad.” ”Dining with a member of the NYSE planted the idea in young Buffett’s head to organize his life around money.” ’Source: ’ ’He purchased multiple shares of Cities Service Preferred for $38 apiece.’ ’ Source: ’ ’He pulled this off by dutifully delivering the Washington Post.’ ’Source: ’ ’Paper delivery was just one of many small businesses teenage Buffett orchestrated: He sold used golf balls and stamps, buffed cars, set up a pinball machine business, and turned a horse track into a lucrative playground. ’ ’Source: ’ ’Buffett, confident he nailed his admissions interview, had already told a friend, ”Join me at Harvard.” ’ ’Forced to look elsewhere, he settled on Columbia University, which only required a written application and no interview.’ ’Source: ’ ’Buffett originally wanted to work with his idol, and author of ”,” Benjamin Graham, but Graham rejected him because he wasn’’t Jewish (Graham was saving a spot at his firm for someone Jewish, since at the time Jewish people had a tougher time landing work on Wall Street).’ ”Buffett wouldn’t take no for an answer, and continued pitching Graham ideas until he eventually hired him.” ’Source: ’ ’He was 21 and terrified of public speaking. It ended up being a worthy investment, as the course helped him propose to his wife.’ ’Source: ’ ”If you want to be Buffett’s neighbor, the house across the street will cost you .” ’Source: ’ ’There is, however, a World Book Encyclopedia set on his shelf.’ ’Source:  and ’ ’Source: ’ ’Oftentimes, his bridge partner is Bill Gates.’ ’Source: ’ ’When he’’s not playing bridge, he’’s reading. ”I just sit in my office and read all day,” he says.’ ’Source: ’ ’The business magnate is a notoriously unhealthy eater: ”If I eat 2, 700 calories a day, a quarter of that is  . I drink at least five   servings. I do it everyday. ”’ ”He also likes to   salt shakers, and don’t put it past him to enjoy a bowl of ice cream for breakfast.” ’Source: ’ ’Source: ’ ”The longevity of Buffett’s outperformance is greater than that of other savvy investors, such as David Einhorn and Walter Schloss.” ’Source: ’ ’Source:  ’ ”Uruguay’s 2014 GDP was estimated to be  ” ’As of June 2016, more than 154 affluent individuals have signed the pledge, including Michael Bloomberg, Mark Zuckerberg, and Larry Ellison.’ ’Source:  ’ ’  ’ ’’ ’Source: ’ ’According to Forbes, Jennifer Lawrence was the    actress in 2013, and she is estimated to have made .’ ’Warren Buffett made $37 million per day in 2013.’ ’Source: ’ ’Source:  ’ ’Source: ’ ’Buffett has been auctioning off a ”” since 2000 at his charity event for .’ ’The highest bidder gets to bring up to seven people to dine with the   business magnate at Smith & Wollensky steakhouse in Manhattan, and the most recent winner paid ’ ’Source: ’ ’Source: ’