’   Apple was a disaster before Steve Jobs returned to the company he   helped start decades earlier. ’ ’  ’ ”   Despite the company’s success in the early 1980s with the Apple   II and Macintosh computers, Apple was in big trouble by 1997. The   company was hemorrhaging money. The final quarter of 1996 showed   Apple’s sales had plummeted 30% from the year before. There were   simply too many products  —   Apple was selling a dozen versions of   the Macintosh but couldn’t advertise the computers’ differences   to people in simple terms. Shareholders were livid with Apple’s   leadership. ” ’   In short, there was no focus. ’ ’   ”It was insanity,” Phil Schiller, Apple’’s senior vice president   of marketing who was working for Macromedia at the time, told   Steve Jobs’’ biographer Walter Isaacson. ”Tons of products, most   of them crap, done by deluded teams.” ’ ’   The return of Jobs changed all that. ’ ’  ’ ’   By September 1997, Jobs had cut 70% of Apple’’s product line and   got Apple out of side businesses like printers and servers. ”You   are bright people,” Jobs told one product group. ”You shouldn’’t   be wasting your time on such crappy products.” ’ ”   This sudden change of strategy is what ultimately saved Apple,   especially during that fragile time for the company. In cutting   so many products and projects, Apple laid off more than 3, 000   people, but it did salvage the company’s balance sheet. And by   the following January, Jobs was able to announce the company’s   first profitable quarter in years. ” ’   It was the opposite of what Apple had done for years  —   to make   more products, not fewer  —   and it worked. Boy, did it   work. ’ ’  ’ ”   Steve Jobs’ return to Apple sparked a major cultural shift within   the company: to stay focused on a small number of products and   make those products extremely polished. ” ”   Jobs and Jony Ive, the head of Apple’s design team, were in   charge of preserving this core mission  —   to remain minimalist  —     while ensuring Apple’s products, business, and marketing all   aligned with this idea. ” ’   Apple enjoyed unprecedented success as a result. The iPod, the   iPhone, and the iPad all took the world by storm and changed the   way people interacted with technology. Apple became the largest   and most valuable company in the world. ’ ’  ’ ’   But Jobs died in 2011 of complications from pancreatic cancer,   and in the five years since it looks as if Ive, his partner and   spiritual equal, has been less and less present at Apple. Many   believe . ’ ”   Judging by what Apple has done this year  —   both purposefully and   accidentally  —   there’s reason to worry about an Apple without   both Jobs and Ive. ” ’   Today, Apple sells about 46 models of its various hardware   products, from phones to tablets to watches and computers and   beyond. But more important than the sheer number of products is   the number of legitimate complaints about these products. ’ ’  ’ ’   It appears as if no new Apple product is immune to flaws or   issues. Some examples: ’ ”The iPhone. Many iPhone 6 and iPhone 6s owners   are complaining about a bug that essentially shuts down the phone   even when it has a lot of battery life left. This is a problem   that is happening right now, and yet, Apple hasn’t   figured out the true cause or at minimum hasn’t disclosed it to   the public. Apple has a replacement program, but it doesn’t   appear to cover all of those people affected by this bug.   . ” ”The MacBook Pro. Battery life isn’t as long as   advertised in the newest model. Apple promised 10 hours, but   . Also, the new model has no SD card slot, no MagSafe (so   your power cord doesn’t safely disconnect if someone trips over   it) and it costs much more than previous models. . ” ”AirPods. Apple missed the October release window   for its first pair of wireless earbuds. They just went on sale   last week, but they cost $130 more than Apple’s wired earbuds,   plus they’re ugly to look at and easy to lose. . ” ’  ’ ’The Apple Watch. The   model,   released in September, is hardly different from the original. It   adds   and a GPS, but it’’s still a bulky piece of   hardware with an ugly interface that’’s far from intuitive.    said it had the ”worst home screen of any Apple device   I’’ve ever owned.” ’ ”The Apple TV.. Since it’s so small and its   touchscreen is so sensitive, the remote 1) gets lost often, and   2) routinely turns on your Apple TV and starts playing random   content. It also has too many buttons. . ” ’So. Many. Dongles. The latest iPhone needs a   dongle for headphones. The MacBook needs different dongles for   peripherals like SD cards, Lightning connectors, and more.   Dongles are one extra thing to carry and one extra thing to   misplace. Ugh. ’ ”   It’s not just Apple’s hardware. Apple’s software and services   also leave much to be desired  —   some examples: ” ”Siri. Apple had a   in the digital   assistant game when it introduced Siri as an iPhone 4S   exclusive in 2011. But in the five years since, Siri has   been left in the dust by competitors like Google Assistant and   Amazon’s Alexa, in terms of language recognition, cognition, and   response time. Siri’s competitors can also do more than Apple’s   AI  —   .   Considering Siri is in almost every Apple product, you’d think   the company would put more effort into making Siri a better   listener and a better assistant. ” ’iCloud. Apple had a similar   in the   cloud business when Steve Jobs introduced the service in 2011;   and yet, while iCloud is supposed to ”just work”  —   syncing   your documents and data between your computers and devices  —   the   interface is still confusing, and the underlying architecture has   been unreliable (I’’ve lost many important files in the past due   to syncing issues). Its various features, too, feel  :    and   frustrating to use. ’ ”Apple Music is still cluttered (despite a     earlier this year) and it’s not as easy to discover   music from artists you might like. (Spotify remains king in these   areas.) ” ’iTunes is a mess. There are too many sections   and menus for it to be intuitive. Just look at this. ’ ’  ’ ”The App Store is in disarray and not fun to   browse. There’s no personalization to it  —   no recommended apps   based on what you’ve downloaded, just popular apps and picks from   Apple  —   thus making it feel extremely impersonal. ” ”Apple’s Mail, Weather, News, Wallet, Health, Clock, and   Calendarapps could all use some work   to . ” ’  ’ ’   Also worth noting: Marketing was a particular   specialty of Jobs’’: When Jobs was alive, Apple created some of   the most iconic ads in the history of advertising, like the   ”1984” commercial, the ”Think Different” campaign, and the iPod   silhouette ads. But lately, Apple’’s ads have been, quite frankly,   not as good. ’ ”   You can point to any number of factors  —   perhaps a lack of   originality, or humor, or style  —   but the bottom line remains:   Apple’s advertisements from the past five years have not   generated the same buzz they used to. ” ”   (For reference, Apple’s two latest ads featured  and .) ” ’  ’ ’   Perhaps Apple’’s current products are suffering because Apple is   focusing on future projects.  that can handle   augmented   virtual reality, as well as . Both projects reportedly have   ”hundreds” of people attached to them . .. and both are many years   from launching. ’ ’   On the flip side, there are several current Apple   products that feel downright neglected. iTunes is in desperate   need of an update, and Apple’’s    Mac Pro no longer   meets the needs of ”pro” customers  —   it’’s surprising Apple hasn’’t   given this computer even a minor refresh, just to keep chipsets     . Many other products need polishing or fixing. ’ ’   Apple can still fix its problems. ’ ’   The key, as it was when Jobs returned to Apple, is focus: Shrink   the number of ongoing projects, and execute them well. That might   mean taking a really hard look at some less successful products   and cutting them. ’ ”  —     which is a shame, since I own one  —   but it’s a good move, as the   company clearly needs more bandwidth for other projects. And   Apple needs to do more moves like this. ” ”   Some products Apple might consider killing, if it can’t find a   way to fix them: ” ”iTunes. I spent over a decade perfecting my   music library on iTunes, but with the introductions of Apple   Music and the Apple TV, there’s really no reason for Apple’s   multimedia to be housed on such an old platform any longer. Apple   should do a wholesale replacement of iTunes with Apple Music and     out the iTunes Store to continue selling digital   movies, music, and more. ” ’  ’ ’The MacBook. Apple should consolidate the   MacBook Air and MacBook lines, so if you’’re in the market for a   new laptop, you choose either the MacBook Air or the MacBook Pro    —   one laptop focuses on portability, while the other focuses on   professional use. Right now, it’’s too difficult to differentiate   the normal MacBook from the MacBook Air, especially if you ask   one of Jobs’’ favorite questions: ”Which one do I tell my friends   to buy?” ’ ”The Apple Watch Edition. Selling an expensive   version of the Apple Watch was a good way to create excitement   for a new product category, but now that the Apple Watch is over   two years old, it’s time to kill the Edition watches. Having a   design team spend time and energy on a single watch model, which   doesn’t do anything different from the normal watch, is a waste   of resources. I’d rather see a redesigned Apple Watch interface   or an Apple Watch that does more things than the basic model,   instead of just the same product with an expensive case. ” ”The   Car Project ’Titan.’ Years ago,   Apple CEO Tim Cook reportedly gave his company a green light to   build an electric,   car, not unlike Tesla Motors’   popular Model S. But recent reports say Apple ran into many   issues in its project, lost several key people, and has since   pivoted into building a   car system  —     essentially software that can help cars drive and navigate by   themselves, . Perhaps it’s premature   to say Apple’s car project isn’t worth the sizable effort   required, but it sounds as if Apple would otherwise benefit by   having more people focused on its core products like the iPhone,   the iPad, and Mac computers. Maybe Project Titan just needs time   for more technologies to become cheaper or readily available, or   maybe Apple is still trying to crystallize its plan. Either way,   it’s time for Apple to consider abandoning this project  —     especially since the company has so many other ambitions in other   areas, like TV and   reality. ” ’Dongles. I miss the days when Apple products   would ”just work.” Please, Apple, kill the dongles. All of them.   Come up with some more clever solutions. Please. ’ ’  ’ ”   It’s impossible to know whether Steve Jobs would have nixed   this project or that project. ” ’   We will unfortunately never know whether Jobs would’’ve approved   AirPods, or the   Apple TV ”Siri” remote, or the move   away from MagSafe power cords and toward  . But the fact is,   Apple today has many projects and many problems   that need attention. It would be wise of Apple to evaluate these   issues and solve them  —   and give a harder look at the company’’s   many products  —   before moving onto even more new projects. ’ ’ This is an opinion column. The thoughts expressed are those   of the author. ’