’  ’ ’   Hindsight is  . And using that view, many analysts have said   that President Obama used too much political capital passing   Obamacare and sacrificed the rest of his legislative agenda. ’ ’   A President Trump could easily do the same thing, sacrificing one   of his key policy promises  —   a $550 billion infrastructure   stimulus. ’ ”   If congressional Republicans and party loyalists get their way,   the new administration’s first priority will be repealing   Obamacare, then passing tax reform. ” ’  ’ ’   House Republicans have said that they plan on passing tax reform   and other   policies (like repealing Obamacare)   using a tool called ”reconciliation.” It allows them to avoid a   filibuster, which is the Democrats’’ last line of defense against   a Republican majority legislature in both houses of Congress. ’ ’’ ”   The thing is, when budget policy is passed using that tool, it   has to be revenue neutral. That is to say, it can’t grow the   deficit. ” ’   When discussing the votes needed to pass tax reform in ”the House   we have a majority and we are a majoritarian body, so all I need   is 218 votes and I can pass something, that doesn’t work like   that in the Senate,” House Speaker Paul Ryan ( ) said on Fox   News earlier this month. ’ ’   ”As you know the Senate has a filibuster except for budget   reconciliation . .. but here’’s the point, for you to be able to   use reconciliation to not have a filibuster, it has to be deficit   neutral and so we have to have deficit neutral tax reform.” ’ ’   That means Republicans will have to raise some revenue as they   cut taxes, especially since the plan is to cut corporate taxes   from 35% to 20%. ’ ”   Expect this to be a dogfight. House Speaker Paul Ryan’s plan   balances tax cuts with closing big loopholes, . That deduction can mean the   difference between being   and   for some   companies. Lobbyists will be fighting to protect their clients’   interest. ” ”   Now, remember that Trump’s infrastructure plan is largely a   series of tax cuts meant to incentivize companies to invest in   infrastructure projects. If infrastructure development is folded   into the larger tax plan, it will make overall tax reform harder   to pass through reconciliation. ” ”   And that’s even if Republicans use dynamic scoring, a practice   which basically allows the government to estimate the future   benefit of tax cuts to the economy after making a load of   assumptions  —   including about  in response to falling tax   revenue. ” ’   As analysts at Morgan Stanley put it in a recent note, ”further   offsets will be required, even in a dynamic framework.” ’ ’   That means the infrastructure plan will have to be handled   separately, outside the rules of reconciliation. And likely   without grudging (if any) support from deficit hawks in the GOP. ’ ’  ’ ”   That means that if Trump wants to pass his infrastructure plan,   he’ll have to do it with the Democrats’ help and likely after   having already cut taxes twice  —   directly through tax code reform   and   —   and gutting some major   programs supported by Democrats. ” ”   There won’t be a lot of good will to go around at that point. And   while it could be easier to get Democrats on board with spending,   it will be harder to get them on board with the huge part of   Trump’s infrastructure plan that involves tax cuts to incentivize   wealthy developers to invest in projects. ” ”   What’s more, infrastructure experts have largely panned Trump’s   plan because they simply don’t think it works. ” ’   ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’He and congressional Republicans are about   to spend a lot of political capital before they can tackle an   infrastructure plan that lacks bipartisan (or even some partisan)   appeal. ’ ’  ’