’  ’ ’   North Carolina Republicans issued an unusual statement early   Wednesday morning signaling that the repeal of the state’’s   contentious ”bathroom law” may be in jeopardy. ’ ’   The law, called  or HB2, limits LGBT rights across the state. One   provision mandates that transgender residents use the public   bathrooms that correspond with their biological sex rather than   their gender identity. ’ ”   Republicans crafted the law in March to override a   nondiscrimination ordinance that protected LGBT residents in   Charlotte, the state’s most populous city. ” ”   On Monday, Charlotte’s City Council announced it had  in an apparent deal with state   Republicans to repeal House Bill 2. However, local media reported   late Tuesday night that Charlotte had repealed only select parts   of the ordinance, drawing the ire of lawmakers who said Charlotte   didn’t keep its word. ” ”   In a strongly worded statement released at 1 a. m. on Wednesday,   North Carolina’s Republican Party accused the Charlotte council   and   Roy Cooper, a Democrat, of lying about   fulfilling their end of the bargain. ” ’   ”Roy Cooper and Charlotte City Council Democrats lied directly to   the people of North Carolina, the Legislature, and Gov. McCrory   about repealing the Charlotte City Council ordinance that caused   HB2,” the statement read. ”They and they alone created this   problem and have now seriously harmed HB2 repeal efforts.” ’ ’   ”The HB2 blood is now stain soaked on their hands and theirs   alone. What a dishonest, disgraceful shame by Roy Cooper and   Charlotte Democrats,” it said. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’t. issues statement at 1 a. m. blasting Cooper, Charlotte council. Seems to suggest  repeal deal in jeopardy.   ’ ’   The statement elicited a confused response from Twitter users,   who noted its multiple typographic errors, including a reference   to ”Rory Cooper.” ’ ’   Charlotte officials defended their partial repeal of the local   ordinance, saying they removed the specific sections to which   state lawmakers had objected. ’ ’   ”The City Council acted in good faith to do everything that it   understood was necessary to facilitate the repeal of HB2,” the   city said in a statement. ’ ’   Later on Wednesday, an hour before state lawmakers gathered in   Raleigh to decide the fate of House Bill 2, the Charlotte council   voted to repeal its local ordinance in its entirety. ’ ’   Still, some state Republicans continue to oppose a repeal of   House Bill 2. With Republicans holding a   majority in   the General Assembly, Democrats will need bipartisan support to   overturn the law. ’ ”   Crafted in a   special session in March, House Bill 2 led   several businesses to withdraw expansions in North Carolina,   costing the state . Numerous entertainers have   cancelled events in the state, and the NBA, NCAA, and ACC have   relocated major sports events since the law’s passage. ” ”   The law has been staunchly defended by Gov. Pat McCrory and state   Republicans, who say the bathroom provision protects women from   sexual predators. McCrory’s defense of the law is thought to have   contributed to his  to Cooper in November’s election. ”