’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Humanity is in a serious pinch for energy. ’ ’   The world population may balloon to  up from  and   researchers believe this will translate to a . ’ ”   Fossil fuels could slake the world’s thirst for energy, but   burning more would exacerbate climate change and threaten   millions. And it’d be temporary, since known reserves are   expected      within a century or two. ” ’   Meanwhile, renewable energy like  though key parts of a solution, are no silver bullets    —   especially if the world is to meet a 2050 deadline set by the   . ’ ’   ”You’’ve got to be able to generate energy reliably. You’’ve got to   be able to generate energy on demand. And that’’s what wind and   solar can’’t do, and will never be able to do,” Kirk Sorensen, the   CTO of nuclear energy startup  told Business   Insider in  produced with   Marketplace. ’ ”   Nuclear reactors fit the bill: They’re dense, reliable, emit no   carbon, and  —   contrary to popular belief  —   are among the  on Earth. They currently supply    of America’s energy, but this share may decline by 50%   through 2040 as companies take   reactors offline,   according to  released by Idaho National Laboratory. ” ’   Fortunately, a powerful yet relatively unknown solution may have   started with a Cold   airplane: ”The Crusader”   jet   bomber, which flew over two US states with a nuclear reactor in   its belly. ’ ’   The effort was part of the . Although it was ultimately   canceled, ANP spawned the development of a radical new type of   power plant, called the . ’ ’   Today, engineers like Sorensen are trying to revive the     reactor, which the US abandoned in the early 1970s,   and fuel it with a practically infinite source of     energy: thorium. ’ ’ ’ ’   The US government in 1946 launched ANP as an effort to develop a     jet bomber. ’ ’   It was an extreme means to a practical (and deadly) end: Fly at   least 15, 000 miles without refueling to give the plane a fearsome   range of attack, . ’ ’   Physicist Alvin Weinberg, who   —   the     reactor (LWR)  —   rose to the occasion and began   working up a solution as the director of Oak Ridge National   Laboratory (ORNL) in Tennessee. ’ ”   But Weinberg didn’t want to put a LWR into an airplane. ” ’   LWRs, which now provide 100% of America’’s nuclear energy, rely on   solid nuclear fuel, typically one that contains  . If   this ”fissile” isotope of uranium is struck by a flying neutron,   it can split, release gobs of energy, and shoot out more   neutrons. This process is called fission. If there’’s enough fuel   in one place, there will be enough neutrons flying around to     a fission  . ’ ’   The problem is that solid fuel is terribly inefficient. In fact,   LWRs fission or ”burn up” just a few percent of their fuel before   it needs to be replaced. This is because waste products slowly   accumulate in the fuel, absorb more and more neutrons, and poison   the process of fission. ’ ’   So Weinberg instead chose to develop an idea he’’d heard during   the Manhattan Project, which had since become ”” for him: a reactor that fissioned its fuel in a   fluid of molten salt. ’ ’     reactors are unlike any commercial nuclear power   plants that exist today. Instead of using solid pellets of   nuclear fuel, they dissolve nuclear fuel in a stable,     fluid. ’ ’   The fluid can dramatically increase the efficiency of nuclear   fission by making it easy to remove fission products. This helps   it burn up almost all the nuclear fuel and boosts energy output.   Such reactors are essentially   too, since cooling   down the salt solidifies and expands it, slowing fission to a   crawl. ’ ’   Weinberg and others knew such efficiency might allow engineers to   shrink a reactor to fit inside an airplane. So he and his team at   ORNL built a small   reactor as part of an offshoot   program, called the Aircraft Reactor Experiment (ARE). ’ ’  ’ ’   By 1954, Weinberg and his team had built a working prototype: a   2.  power plant that used a small amount of     dissolved in molten salt made of fluorine, sodium, and zirconium. ’ ’   It was the first working   reactor ever built. ’ ”   Inside the ARE’s   fuel, uranium powered a fission    . The atomic heat warmed up an adjacent loop of   coolant (made of molten sodium) . Incoming air cooled the   sodium, and pumps returned it to the   reactor core   for reheating. ” ’   ”The Air Force was delighted by the aircraft reactor experiment,”   Weinberg  in his 1994 autobiography, ”,” since this was hot enough to drive jet   engines. ’ ’   The Air Force immediately began retrofitting a   jet bomber   (””) to carry a nuclear reactor. It also funded ORNL’’s       reactor, called the Aircraft Reactor Test   (ART). ’ ’  ’ ’   But the Air Force canceled ART in 1957 to cut ballooning costs  —     and instead flew a different reactor it had funded in tandem. ’ ’   The reactor, which was not a   reactor but a     reactor, was never connected to the plane’’s engines,   since ”The Crusader” was only intended to test radiation   shielding. (The Air Force planned to later incorporate it into a     nuclear bomber called the  .) ’ ’   ”The Crusader”  from 1955 through 1957 over New   Mexico and Texas. It weighed nearly 18 tons   and   logged 218 hours of flight, of which the reactor ran for nearly   90 hours. And the crew lived. ’ ’   But strapped with  and faced with other   priorities, including the creation of intercontinental ballistic   missiles and the space race, President John F. Kennedy canceled   all Aircraft Nuclear Propulsion projects in 1961. ’ ”   Still, by that time, Weinberg had squeezed in several years’   worth of research and $1 billion on   reactors. ” ’   By 1960, with the government funding the development of   commercial nuclear power plants, Weinberg poured all of that   knowledge into the   Reactor Experiment (MSRE). The   MSRE went critical in 1965, produced power for thousands of hours   through 1969, and was hailed a success. ’ ’   The next stage was to develop MSRE into something called a   breeder reactor. ’ ’  ’ ’   Breeder reactors can create more fuel than they burn through   fission, thanks to a process called neutron capture: a ”fertile”   atom will absorb a neutron from fission, then decay into (and   ”breed”) the fuel. The fuel can then be fissioned to breed more   fuel, and so on. ’ ’   As long as fertile material is around, this can go on   indefinitely. But breeding only works with a few radioactive   isotopes, since it requires so many neutrons to work. ’ ’   One is   a fertile isotope which makes up more than   99% of natural uranium ore. It can be bred into   a   fissile weapons material. (This is how the US made most of its   nuclear arsenal.) ’ ’   Another is thorium, which can be bred into    —   another   fissile fuel, yet one that is very difficult to handle or make   into bomb material. ’ ’   ”Right now we extract thorium inadvertently as a function of     mining,” Sorensen said. ”We go looking for neodymium,   and other    —   ironically for magnets for things like   wind turbines  —   and we bring up quite a bit of thorium in the   process, which right now is treated like a waste.” ’ ’  ’ ”   But it’s no waste. ” ’   According to ”,”   a 2013 book on thorium energy’’s demise and promise by journalist   and author Richard Martin: ’ ”   Inside a   breeder reactor, which burns up almost all   of its fuel and generates hundreds of times less waste than LWRs,   Weinberg estimated that thorium could meet the world’s   energy needs for billions of years. ” ’   But the government canceled the MSRE in 1972, Weinberg retired   soon after, and he never revived his research. ’ ’   The US ultimately favored the LWR design for its nuclear reactors   because more of them had been built, the military liked the   design for nuclear submarines, and they could also make nuclear   weapons material. ’ ’  ’ ’   In the 2000s, Sorensen and others (including China and India)   began rediscovering the idea of       reactors. ’ ’   Sorensen is one of a few entrepreneurs who is trying to revive,   modernize, and license his own version of the technology, called   the liquid fluoride thorium reactor (LFTR). ’ ’ ’ ’   ”The technology is viable, the science has been demonstrated,”    a   nuclear physicist at Idaho National Laboratory (INL) told   Business Insider. ’ ”   But it’s been rough. Developing nuclear power technology requires   billions of dollars and is very slow, since it has to be proven   safe at multiple stages before   plants can be   built  —   and the LFTR is unlike anything in service today. ” ’   ”Maneuvering the licensing process is a huge challenge. The   regulatory framework is not currently streamlined to support   these novel innovative technologies,”  a materials engineer at INL, told Business   Insider. ’ ”   The Department of Energy estimates it may take until 2040 or 2050   to license a   and commercial   power plant.   Meanwhile, America’s aging yet vital nuclear power plants aren’t   getting any younger. ” ”   That’s why, this summer, INL tapped Baranwal to direct its new    (GAIN) program, which is a   technology accelerator and support system created for     nuclear entrepreneurs. ” ”   However it gets built  —   or whoever builds it  —   Sorensen is   convinced that     reactors are the key to   solving Earth’s energy blues for good. ” ’   ”This is something that’’s going to benefit their future   tremendously, it’’s going to lead to a new age of human success,”   he said, speaking to the world at large. ”And if they want that,   they need to be talking to their elected officials and demanding   it, in fact, and saying ’’we want to see these things happen. ’’   Because only a society that decides to embrace this kind of   technology is going to ultimately realize its benefits.” ’ ’  For more on molten salt reactors and solving climate   change, listen to the ”world building”  of the  podcast from Business   Insider and Marketplace. Subscribe to the whole series on    or wherever you get your podcasts.  ’