’  ’ ’   Seven people have been arrested in Melbourne after allegedly   preparing for an “ ” terrorist attack on Christmas   Day. ’ ’   The suspects were reportedly targeting Flinders Street Station,   Federation Square, and St Paul’s Cathedral  —   all significant   public spaces in the heart of Australia’s   city. ’ ’   Victorian state police confirmed the arrests, which followed   raids targeting five addresses in suburbs in Melbourne’s north;   Flemington, Meadow Heights, Dallas, Campbellfield and Gladstone   Park. ’ ’   Around 400 officers from the Victorian and Australian Federal   Police were involved. ’ ’   Five men in their twenties remain in custody. ’ ’’ ’   Victorian Police chief Graham Ashton said: “Over the last   fortnight  …     we have had to conduct a criminal investigation   relating to the formation of what we believe was a terrorist   plot. ’ ’   “We believe that there was an intention to conduct what we call a     attack, possibly on Christmas Day. ” ’ ’   He said four of the five still in custody are   men   of a Lebanese background who “ ”. ’ ’   The other man is an   Australian citizen. ’ ’   “The attack had the potential to cause significant community   harm,” he said. ’ ’   “The community should be concerned but should be reassured that   we have got on top of this particular issue. ” ’ ’   Ashton said the plan possible included explosives, knives or   firearms, after police recovered evidence of an improvised   explosive device during the raids. ’ ’   “We are anticipating that as a result of that questioning we will   present a number of persons before the courts in the early   afternoon, seeking to charge them with acts in preparation of a   terrorist event. ” ’ ’   There will be an increased police presence over the holiday   period. ’ ’   State Premier Daniel Andrews said: “Victorians should go about   their business. ’ ’   “What the police will allege was not an act of faith, not an act   of religious observance, it was, instead, in its planning, an act   of evil, a criminal act,” he said. ’ ’   Police say they will be providing further information on security   arrangements over the next 24 hours. ’ ’ More to come. ’ ’     ’