’  ’ ’     Donald Trump  that the US needs to ”greatly strengthen and expand   its nuclear capability” until ”the world comes to its senses”   regarding nuclear weapons. ’ ’   The statement was in sync with comments Trump made during the   campaign. The   previously suggested that if he won   the presidency, he might allow Japan and South Korea to develop   their own nuclear weapons arsenal in exchange for an ease in US   defense commitments. ’ ”   Experts from nonpartisan organizations opposed to the spread of   nuclear weapons told Business Insider in March that Trump’s   position on nukes would be dangerous. ” ’   Jeffrey Lewis, the director of the East Asia Nonproliferation   Program at the Middlebury Institute of International Studies,   explained why nuclear proliferation would be a ”total   catastrophe” for the US and its allies abroad. ’ ’   ”Early on, we thought nuclear weapons are great when our allies   have them and bad when our enemies have them,” Lewis said. ’ ’   That thinking has evolved, he said: ’ ’   Increasing nuclear arsenals could have a domino effect as other   countries, including some US allies in the Middle East, demand   their own arsenals. ’ ’   ”A large number of our other allies would want the same treatment   immediately,” Lewis said. ”Probably lots of Middle Eastern   states. I think you would get a lot of countries wanting nuclear   weapons.” ’ ’   Kingston Reif, the director for disarmament and     policy at the Arms Control Association, made a similar point. ’ ’   ”If South Korea and Japan were to acquire their own nuclear   deterrents, that would send an incredibly dangerous signal to our   allies in the Middle East,” he told Business Insider in March.   ”It would be incredibly destabilizing development.” ’ ”   Trump’s position on nuclear weapons has been inconsistent. ” ’   He said during the campaign that he wanted to be ”unpredictable”   in his decisions regarding nuclear weapons, but has also said   that he would like ”everybody to end it, just get rid of” nuclear   weapons. He said in September that ”once the nuclear alternative   happens, it’’s over,” but that he still didn’’t want to ”take   anything off the table.” ’ ’   And last month,  that he ”never said” that more countries should   acquire nuclear weapons. ’ ’   Trump  this year that he thinks the ”biggest problem”   in the world is nuclear proliferation  —   a curious statement   considering he is now suggesting just that. ’ ’   Bruce Blair, a nuclear security expert at the Program on Science   and Global Security at Princeton University,  last month that if current trends   continue, ”nuclear proliferation will reach the point of no   return and nuclear weapons will inevitably be used.” ’ ’   ”Trump’’s rhetoric only encourages the world to adopt a     attitude toward nuclear acquisition and use,” Blair   wrote. ”We can only hope that the new president learns quickly   that nuclear weapons are not to be trifled with.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Reif called Trump’’s   stance ”irresponsible.” ’ ’   ”The US needs to be playing an even more active role than it is   currently playing in reducing nuclear buildup, and Trump’’s   comments [earlier this year] will not make that job any easier,”   Reif said. ’ ”   And Trump’s potential plan to allow other countries to develop   their nuclear capabilities likely wouldn’t accomplish much. Reif   pointed out that India’s and Pakistan’s possession of nukes   hadn’t stopped the aggression between them. And Israel’s arsenal   hasn’t stopped it from being threatened. ” ”   So even as North Korea poses a nuclear threat, it’s unlikely that   additional nukes in surrounding countries would ease tensions. ” ’   Lewis said Trump’’s plan ”would sound   if he was   sitting on a bar stool.” ’ ’   ”We tried to let the Japanese defend themselves at one point,”   Lewis said. ”It did not go well.” ’ ’   China might also look to get more nuclear weapons if there were a   buildup in South Korea and Japan. ’ ’   China’’s ”doctrine regarding when it might employ nuclear weapons   might be described as one of minimum deterrence,” Reif said.   ”China right now is believed to have no more than 300 total   nuclear weapons, which is a small arsenal relative to what the US   and Russia possess. ’ ’   ”But in the event that South Korea and Japan acquire independent   nuclear weapons, it’’s highly likely that China would revisit its   minimum deterrence posture and likely accelerate its ongoing   nuclear modernization efforts and consider increasing the overall   size of its nuclear arsenal.” ’ ’   Lewis further cautioned that having several     states in Northeast Asia could be dangerous. ’ ’   ”It would be a  ” he said. ”It would be a giant   science experiment that I would not want to see.” ’