’  ’ ’   When John Tereska’s   family members open their gifts   from him on  Day, they will get a shock. ’ ’   Inside pretty boxes they’ll find notes thanking them for making   donations to organizations like Planned Parenthood and the Sierra   Club that support causes expected to come under attack from the   new administration. ’ ’   “With my oldest brother, who I know voted for Trump, I’m going   right for the jugular. I’m donating to the Democratic National   Committee on his behalf,” Tereska said. ’ ’   Tereska, an avid Hillary Clinton supporter, is so mad at the   relatives who voted for  in November that he’s giving   money to progressive    organizations in their names,   in lieu of Christmas presents this year. ’ ’   “It’s revenge giving,” he added, with relish. ’ ’   Many devastated Democrats have decided the best way to make a   point to their loved ones with polar political views this holiday   season is to put their money where they wish their relatives’   mouth were. ’ ’  ’ ’   Ken Urban, a playwright who teaches part time at Princeton   University and voted Democratic, has made donations to the   Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC) on behalf of his parents as   their Christmas gifts. ’ ’   “My father was the Republican mayor of my small home town in New   Jersey and spent his career in the navy reserve. My mother told   me she would never vote for Hillary Clinton because they have a   friend who works for the CIA who said she was ‘difficult’. And   there are aunts and uncles and cousins in my family who voted for   Trump,” said Urban. ’ ’   He is ruing the fact that he and his boyfriend agreed, before the   election, to attend a big family Christmas gathering for the   first time in 20 years. ’ ’   But the SPLC donations on behalf of his parents will take the   sting out of it. ’ ’   “I thought I could make a point and in the process be generous to   a human rights cause that is only going to become more important   now,” said Urban. ’ ’   Some were inspired after hearing about  to Planned Parenthood made in   the  of     elect Mike Pence, who is  against abortion. Pence is sent an   acknowledgment from the family planning organization for every   contribution. ’ ’  ’ ’   Randi Greenwald, a retired lawyer in Portland, Maine, heard about   the Pence idea and decided to put a more personal, local spin on   the tactic. ’ ’   Her son’s    is Canadian but is a big fan of Trump   and has been taunting the rest of the   family   ever since the real estate tycoon’s surprise  in   November, she said. ’ ’   “It meant more to me to make a revenge donation in this person’s   name to a small cause locally,” she said. ’ ’   Greenwald gave the money to her state branch of the Immigration   Legal Advocacy Project, ILAP Maine, which assists people with   their immigration cases, including asylum seekers and refugees. ’ ’   “That’s his holiday gift this year,” she said. She’s bought   regular presents for other members of the family. ’ ’   Her   relatives are highly amused at the thought   of him receiving a thank you letter from ILAP, she said. ’ ’   “For me, if I don’t laugh, I’m going to cry,” she said. ’ ’   Francie Schnipke, who works for a    group in   Chicago, is also supporting the SPLC  —   in the name of her     older brother in rural Ohio. ’ ’  ’ ’   He went from being a   to a vocal Trump fan, despite the   fact that their mother is Mexican and they have a family member   with special needs, she said; they belong to two groups among   many  by Trump  the   campaign.  ’ ’   She thinks the brother was swept along by the rhetoric of     at his transportation company. ’ ’   “He’s always been a loving brother and father. I’m reeling,” she   said. “I think he was emboldened by the idea of the outsider   coming to fix dysfunctional Washington. ” ’ ’   Now Schnipke hopes the information leaflets the SPLC will send   her brother will “give him pause” she said. ’ ’   Tereska, an operations analyst for a fashion retailer in New   York, isn’t only giving “revenge   donations”. His sister voted for Clinton,   so she is getting a “love donation” to the Human Rights Campaign   for LGBT equality. ’ ’   But the majority of his family members will get gifts that he   thinks they’ll perceive as hostile. ’ ’   “My father wrote in John McCain on his ballot, so I take that as   a vote for Trump. My mother will not talk about it, so I assume   she voted for Trump. They are getting donations to Planned   Parenthood,” Tereska said.  ’ ’   “I’m still grappling with the result of the election and this is   my small slice of revenge for the fact that their votes have just   jeopardized me and the entire world for the next four years. ” ’