’  ’ ”   Congressional Democrats issued scathing statements aimed at the   Obama administration over the US’s abstention from a Friday   UN Security Council vote  in occupied   Palestinian territory. ” ”   Leading Democrats from both houses called out the UN as an   inappropriate venue for rejuvenating the peace process between   Israelis and Palestinians. They objected to the Obama   administration’s departure from what they view as decades of   established US policy of vetoing UN resolutions regarding Israeli   settlements.  ” ’   Incoming Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer of New York   said it was ”extremely frustrating, disappointing and   confounding” that the Obama administration failed to veto the   UN’’s vote. ’ ’   Schumer called out the UN as a ”fervently”   body,   since the days of ”Zionism is racism.” ’ ’   ”Whatever one’s views are on settlements, the UN is the wrong   forum to settle these issues,” Schumer said. ’ ’   Sen. Richard Blumenthal, a Democrat from Connecticut, called the   US’’s abstention from the vote ”unconscionable.” ’ ’   ”A   solution must be negotiated directly between the   Israelis and Palestinians, and this resolution flies in the face   of this necessity,” Blumenthal said. ’ ’   He also said support for Israel must remain ”bipartisan,”   and that he’’ll work with colleagues on ”both sides of the aisle”   to advance ”productive measures” that strengthen the US’’s   relationship with Israel. ’ ’   Sen. Lindsey Graham, a Republican from South Carolina, said that   he would work to  to ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   And Sen. Mark Warner, a Democrat from Virginia said ”    resolutions” at the UN are counterproductive to the peace process   and ”achieving a   solution.” ’ ’   ”I am dismayed that the administration departed from decades of   U. S. policy by not vetoing the UN resolution regarding Israeli   settlements,” Warner said. ’ ’   Rep. Eliot L. Engel, a Democrat from New York and the ranking   member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said he was ”very   disappointed” by the US’’s ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’