”2017 is almost here and it’s once again time to predict which startups will take the tech industry by storm.” ’Who better to ask than the startup experts, the VCs that watch the industry, guide the startups, hear their pitches, and invest in them?’ ’So we reached out to a handful of top VCs and asked them which young or   startups will boom in 2017.’ ’We asked them to particularly focus on   startups  —   companies that sell directly to consumers rather than businesses. (For the hottest companies in enterprise, ).’ ’The VCs we spoke to gave us this list that includes everything from video chat apps, to delivery drones, to companies that help you track your spending or invest your money.’ ’Below are the 33 companies that are poised to boom in 2017.’ ’Company name: ’ ”VC: Greylock’s Josh Elman” ’Relationship: VC is an investor.’ ’Funding: ’ ’What it does: Hooked turns stories into     messages, or lets fans write their own.’ ’Why it’’s hot: ”’ ’Company name: ’ ”VC: Greylock’s Josh Elman” ’Relationship: ’ ’Funding: ’ ’What it does: Robinhood is a free   app that makes it easy to buy and sell stocks from your phone.’ ’Why it’’s hot: ”’ ’Company name: ’ ”VC: Charles River Ventures’ Saar Gur” ’Relationship: VC is an investor.’ ’Funding: ’ ’What it does: Laurel & Wolf easily connects people with interior designers online, making it easy and affordable to transform a space.’ ’Why it’’s hot: ”Laurel & Wolf w’ ’Company name: ’ ”VC: Charles River Ventures’ Saar Gur” ”Relationship: None. VC just thinks it’s cool.” ’Funding: ’ ’What it does: Opendoor is betting that homeowners would take a guaranteed sale over a higher price. It calculates a fair market value and pays homeowners before   the home with a   satisfaction guarantee.’ ’Why it’’s hot: ”’ ’Company name: ’ ”VC: Accel’s Brian O’Malley” ’Relationship: VC is an investor.’ ’Funding: ’ ’What it does: The app allows people to find   tickets for live sports and entertainment and easily share them with friends.’ ’Why it’’s hot: ”Gametime is the fastest growing ticketing company ever to reach $50 million in gross sales. By focusing on the mobile audience, Gametime makes everything easier, whether you’re sharing tickets through sms or selling tickets by just taking a picture’ ’Company name: ’ ”VC: Accel’s Brian O’Malley” ”Relationship: Not an investor. VC just thinks it’s cool.” ’Funding: ’ ’What it does: TheSkimm is a morning newsletter (now with an app) that condenses the news of the world into    headlines and blurbs.’ ’Why it’’s hot: ”Founded by two former journalists, theSkimm has become the daily newsletter for over 4 million millennials. Blending news with a clever tone, theSkimm has branched out from the newsletter with an app and now a commerce experience,” O’’Malley says.’ ’Company name: ’ ”VC: Sequoia’s Matt Huang” ’Relationship: VC is an investor.’ ’Funding: ’ ’What it does: Zipline builds drones that can transport   medical supplies like vaccines, medicines, or blood.’ ’Why it’’s hot: ”Zipline is the world’’s first commercial drone delivery service. While many companies are still just experimenting with drones, Zipline is addressing a major need (delivering   medical supplies) and has kicked off in Rwanda, where poor roads and healthcare infrastructure have often made it difficult to reach patients. With a brilliant technology team and data from real customers, look for them to extend their lead in 2017,” Huang says.’ ’Company name: ’ ”VC: Sequoia’s Matt Huang and Kleiner Perkins’ Eric Feng” ”Relationship: No relations. VCs just think it’s cool.” ’Funding: $29 million’ ’What it does: Discord helps gamers ditch Skype and texting and instead provides an    platform for voice and text chat with friends.’ ’Why it’’s hot: ”’ ’’ ’Company name: ’ ”VC: Kleiner Perkins’ Eric Feng” ’Relationship: VC is an investor.’ ’Funding: ’ ’What it does: Hollar is reinventing the dollar store for online and mobile shopping, proving you can still buy cheap,   goods online.’ ’Why it’’s hot: ”Dollar stores are a growing $50 billion market with less than 5% of transactions happening online. Not surprisingly,   shoppers want the convenience of ecommerce and are loving Hollar, which is doing millions in sales and grown 50% month on month,” Feng says.’ ’Company name: ’ ”VC: Andreessen Horowitz’s Alex Rampell” ’Relationship: VC is a cofounder and investor.’ ’Funding: ’ ’What it does: Affirm provides loans from the point of sale so shoppers can pay for purchases across multiple months.’ ’Why it’’s hot: ”I’’m of course biased, but truly excited about the success and potential of Affirm to   finance for millions of Americans that either don’’t have access to, or are frustrated with, the traditionally opaque and unfriendly banking system. Max Levchin and team are rethinking the entire process, starting off by making it quick and easy for anyone to secure a transparent loan at the point of purchase, and have already seen tremendous results. Affirm has a unique customer acquisition model, as merchants promote Affirm to their customers,” Rampell says.’ ’Company name: ’ ”VC: Andreessen Horowitz’s Alex Rampell” ”Relationship: No relation. VC just thinks it’s cool. ” ’Funding: ’ ’What it does: SoFi is changing the loan industry when it comes to refinancing student loans. ’ ’Why it’’s hot: ”,” Rampell says.’ ’Company name: ’ ”VC: Canaan’s Maha Ibrahim” ’Relationship: VC is an investor’ ’Funding: ’ ’What it does: The online consignment shop authenticates luxury goods and resells them at low prices.’ ’Why it’’s hot: ” says.’ ’Company name: ’ ”VC: Canaan’s Maha Ibrahim” ”Relationship: No relationship. VC just thinks it’s cool.” ’Funding: ’ ’What it does: The online company makes buying custom cards easier and more affordable than ever. It crowdsources its designs for everything from wedding invitations to pillows and homegoods.’ ’Why it’’s hot: ” says.’ ’Company name: ’ ”VC: Science’s Peter Pham” ’Relationship: VC is an investor.’ ’Funding: ’ ’What it does: Earny tracks the prices on everything you buy and gets you your money back when the price drops.’ ”Why it’s hot: ” ’Company name: ’ ”VC: Science’s Peter Pham” ”Relationship: None. VC just thinks it’s cool.” ’Funding: ’ ’What it does: The group video chat app lets people join ”parties” of up to 8 people, letting people drop in and out easily depending on who is online.’ ’Why it’’s hot: ”’ ’Company name: ’ ’VC: Forerunner Ventures’ Eurie Kim’ ’Relationship: VC is an investor.’ ’Funding: ’ ’What it does: The cult luggage maker developed a huge following for its suitcases that can even charge your phone.’ ’Why it’’s hot: ”With a   series A round of financing in Q3 2016, Away is ready to put fuel on their fire in 2017 with new product introductions, expanded stores and   and more surprises to come,” Kim says.’ ’Company name: ’ ’VC: Forerunner Ventures’ Eurie Kim’ ’Relationship: No relation. VC just thinks it’s cool.’ ’Funding: $25. 01 million’ ’What it does:   clothing and accessories retailer delivering its service via a     model.’ ’Why it’’s hot: ”With $20 million in new capital from Sequoia this past Sept 2016, Dia&Co. should have a full pipeline of growth initiatives to expand their service to women nationwide,” Kim says.’ ’Company name: ’ ”VC: GV’s M. G. Siegler” ’Relationship: VC is an investor.’ ’Funding: ’ ’What it does: ’ ’Why it’’s hot: ”’ ’Company name: ’ ”VC: GV’s M. G. Siegler” ’Relationship: ’ ’Funding: ’ ”What it does: Part Snapchat, part   Marco Polo is an app made by Joya Communications that’s popular with teens.” ’Why it’’s hot: ”’ ’Company name: ’ ’VC: Science’s Mike Jones’ ’Relationship: VC is an investor.’ ’Funding: ’ ’What it does: Its   landscaping and driveway plowing services is available in eight regions and quickly expanding due to overwhelming demand.’ ’Why it’’s hot: ”The $50 billion exterior home care industry is highly fragmented; Science Inc. invested in Plowz & Mowz because it’’s the first truly disruptive leader for   booking. The demand is growing  —   they are on track for an even bigger year in 2017. This past weekend, with the snowfall in the Midwest, they were doing a job every five seconds in Chicago, Minneapolis and Cleveland,” Jones says.’ ’Company name: ’ ”VC: Science’s Mike Jones” ”Relationship: No relationship. VC just thinks it’s cool.” ’Funding: ’ ’What it does: Cheddar is a live and   video news service, focusing on a millennial twist for business news.’ ’Why it’’s hot: ”With live video platforms not fully taking off over the last few years, Facebook Live came on the scene this year and rapidly changed and improved how we consume live streams. Cheddar saw this potential and seized the opportunity to make news easily digestible and enjoyable to watch. I admire how they conquered broadcast news through streaming, and foresee exceptional growth for them in 2017,” Jones says.’ ’Company name: ’ ”VC: Greylock’s Josh Elman” ’Relationship: VC is an investor.’ ’Funding: ’ ”What it does: Musical. ly has taken off with teens for its ability to make instant, easy music videos. It’s already churning out the next generation of musicians and stars.” ’Why it’’s hot: ”’ ’Company name:  (formerly Everalbum)’ ”VC: Greylock’s Josh Elman” ’Relationship: ’ ’Funding: ’ ’What it does: Ever automatically backs up your photos on all devices, making it easy to access your memories wherever you are and save space on your phone.’ ’Why it’’s hot: ”’ ’Company name: ’ ”VC: GV’s Andy Wheeler” ’Relationship: VC is an investor.’ ’Funding: ’ ’What it does: Ripple Foods is a   startup that makes a   milk alternative.’ ’Why it’’s hot: ”’ ’Company name: ’ ”VC: GV’s Andy Wheeler” ”Relationship: No relationship. VC just thinks it’s cool.” ’Funding: ’ ’What it does: Shyp picks up your packages and handles the packing and shipping for you.’ ’Why it’’s hot: ”’ ’Company name: ’ ”VC: GV’s Andy Wheeler” ’Relationship: VC is an investor.’ ’Funding: ’ ’What it does: Light is replacing the DSLR with a compact camera with 16 different lenses.’ ’Why it’’s hot: ”’ ’Company name: ’ ”VC: GV’s Andy Wheeler” ”Relationship: No relationship. VC just thinks it’s cool.” ’Funding: ’ ’What it does: Shift is a personal concierge service for selling your car, helping coordinate everything from test drives to the DMV paperwork.’ ’Why it’’s hot: ”Shift is bringing a great consumer experience to buying and selling used cars. This is particularly useful whether you’re sending someone to you to inspect your car if selling, or bringing the car to you to test drive it,” Wheeler says.’ ’Company name: ’ ”VC: Social Capital’s Arjun Sethi” ’Relationship: VC is an investor.’ ’Funding: ’ ”What it does: Forge captures a gamer’s live stream for free, making it possible for anyone anywhere to stream their gameplay.” ’Why it’’s hot: ”’ ’Company name: ’ ”VC: Social Capital’s Arjun Sethi” ”Relationship: No relationship. VC just thinks it’s cool. ” ’Funding: ’ ’What it does: Zola is changing wedding registries by making it easy to buy and ship wedding gifts from one site.’ ’Why it’’s hot: ”Z’ ’Company name: ’ ”VC: Foundation Capital’s Charles Moldow” ’Relationship: VC is an investor.’ ’Funding: ’ ’What it does: Rappi is taking the   delivery model, like Postmates, and bringing it to Latin America.’ ’Why it’’s hot: ”’ ’Company name: ’ ”VC: Foundation Capital’s Charles Moldow” ”Relationship: None. VC just thinks it’s cool.” ’Funding: ’ ’What it does: Reserve finds    reservations and makes it easy to book from within the app.’ ’Why it’’s hot: ”’ ’Company name: ’ ”VC: Foundation Capital’s Steve Vassallo” ’Relationship: VC is an investor.’ ’Funding: ’ ’What it does: ForUsAll is trying to radically simplify the 401( K) retirement plan and make it easy and affordable for small businesses to make sure their employees have a shot at a happy retirement.’ ’Why it’’s hot: ”’ ’Company name: ’ ”VC: Foundation Capital’s Steve Vassallo” ”Relationship: No relationship. VC just thinks it’s cool.” ’Funding: ’ ’What it does: After you connect your bank account, Digit takes a look at your balance every couple of days and tucks away money for you, making saving money easy and  .’ ’Why it’’s hot: ”’