’  ’ ’   Promoting economic growth and employment is one of the Fed’s core   missions, assigned to it by Congress in (I believe) 1974. ’ ’   It was a triumph of Keynesian thought over Hayek’s beliefs; and   despite all evidence to the contrary, most market participants   still think that  is the magic that drives the   business cycle. ’ ’   Policy is supposed to moderate the    cycle and lift   the economy out of recessions within a reasonable period. On that   point,  ’ ’   We’re seven years out of a recession and have yet to see GDP   growth break above 3%. ’ ’   The Fed’s answer in this week’s episode was to throw in the   towel:  ’ ’   Here’s why. ’ ’ Economic growth is not sufficient ’ ’   Here’s actual growth since 2011 and the FOMC’s projections   through 2019. Notice that the top end of the range of growth is   barely more than 2%. ’ ’  ’ ’   You can see that 2013 was a “good” year. Ben Bernanke was   confident enough to start talking about “tapering” down from   quantitative easing. Staying on that path another year or two   might have changed everything. ’ ’   But it didn’t. ’ ’   There was a global taper tantrum; Growth fell back again; and now   even the most optimistic FOMC participants see little chance that   it will climb much above 2% through 2019. ’ ’   (One caveat —  and it’s one that I feel the need to keep repeating:      that doesn’t fully capture the way today’s economy works. We use   it because we have nothing better.) ’ ’   Former Treasury Secretary Larry Summers, who desperately wanted   to star in the show Janet Yellen now headlines,  ’ ’   He thinks we should all get used to it because its structural   causes are impossible to change. Yellen and her crew might not   use language that strong, but they appear to mostly agree with   Larry. ’ ’   Are they right? Maybe, but I think we can escape this dreary fate   if we play our cards right. ’ ’ Jobs, jobs, jobs ’ ’   The unemployment trend is looking better. The rate has fallen   pretty steadily and is now below 5%. The FOMC expects it to stay   there, too. ’ ’  ’ ’   The problem is that not all jobs are equal. The wealthy law firm   partner and the    law degree holder who is   instead driving for Uber both count as “employed,” even though   their situations are vastly different. ’ ’   Also problematic: The unemployment rate is down in part because   so many workers have left the labor force —  or, increasingly, never   entered it. Roughly 10 million American males of prime working   age have literally dropped out of the workforce. And we wonder   why productivity is low. ’ ’   Again,  since   the 1960s. The trend has held steady through boom periods and   recessions, and the   welfare reforms didn’t   affect it. ’ ’   France and Greece have significantly higher labor force   participation rates than the US does. And no, these dropouts are   not Trump voters, and it’s not just the labor force they don’t   participate in. ’ ’   This is a major and very troubling social trend. ’ ’   The problem is that  between the skills of   jobless people and the kinds of work employers need done. That is   not something . ’ ’   This wildly popular newsletter by celebrated economic   commentator, John Mauldin, is a   for informed investors   who want to go beyond the mainstream media hype and find out   about the trends and traps to watch out for. Join hundreds of   thousands of fans worldwide, as John uncovers macroeconomic   truths in Thoughts from the Frontline.  ’