’  ’ ’   NEW YORK, Dec 24 (Reuters)   When six executives of Platinum   Partners, including founder Mark Nordlicht, were arrested on   Monday on federal charges of running a more than $1 billion hedge   fund fraud, people who had long alleged they were harmed by the   New   firm felt some vindication. ’ ’   But the possibility that each defendant might face prison terms   has done little to soothe their continued anger over losses that   may never be recouped. ’ ”   One such person is   energy entrepreneur John   Hoffman. In the charges, the U. S. Department of Justice and the   U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission alleged what Hoffman had   long believed   that Platinum, with the help of a seventh man   also arrested, Jeffrey Shulse, had illegally profited from the   failure of Hoffman’s company, Black Elk Energy Offshore   Operations LLC. ” ’   Hoffman said in a telephone interview on Wednesday that he did   not expect to recover anything and that his involvement with   Platinum had cost him the company he founded and at least   $500, 000 in legal fees. He also described   health   problems and difficulty fundraising for a new energy venture. ’ ”   Hoffman expressed anger that thousands of Gulf     families were stiffed: mostly the small businesses that were   never paid for work on Black Elk’s oil and gas drilling platforms   before it went bankrupt amid lower oil prices and Platinum’s   alleged corporate cash grab. ” ’’ ”   All six Platinum executives pleaded not guilty and an attorney   for Shulse told Reuters he plans to do the same. A spokesman for   Platinum declined to comment for this article, and the firm has   not offered any public comment. A person familiar with Platinum’s   thinking told Reuters in April that the firm always acted within   the limits of the law despite its aggressive investment approach. ” ’   Launched in 2003, Platinum was known as a   hedge   fund manager that backed struggling companies and employed    such as litigation finance and     consumer loans. ’ ’   The government charges on Monday included allegations of     assets and misleading clients on the health of the   firm. The government demanded that the hedge fund return money   that was allegedly illegally taken from clients and Black Elk   bondholders, and pay related penalties. ’ ’   That appears to complicate an already messy stew of competing   claims for a relatively small pot of assets, which include funds   already in supervised liquidation and bankruptcy. ’ ’   Others seeking money from Platinum include approximately 600   clients whose money was frozen, and creditors and shareholders of   its   or struggling portfolio companies, according to   a variety of lawsuits against Platinum ’ ’   Marc Powers, an attorney for a Platinum fund investor with   BakerHostetler in New York, said it was too early to speculate on   how much would be recovered from Platinum, including its hedge   funds, executives, and allegedly improperly favored firm clients.   But he added that it was unlikely his client and others would be   made whole based on the number of claims and the facts of the   case. ’ ’   ”It clearly doesn’’t look good for any of the victims,” Powers   said. ’ ’   Robert McIver, a small business owner in Glasgow, Scotland, said   he invested nearly $2 million with Platinum starting in 2013   after he searched on Google for   hedge funds. ’ ’   ”From looking at the numbers, Platinum was doing great. There was   no reason to suspect anything,” McIver said in a phone interview   on Wednesday along with his attorney, Powers. ’ ”   McIver gave Platinum money from his company, Aerial Services   Scotland Ltd, and a significant part of his and his wife’s   savings. ” ’   ”We had a plan to retire in about five years. That’’s all ruined   now,” he said. ’ ”   At least one person owed money by Platinum for a fund investment   said he expected to recover a small portion of his assets. The   person estimated that there would be several hundred million   dollars left of the reported $1. 3 billion following the   liquidation process, based on plans such as   Communications   Holdings’s proposed $117. 5 million purchase of assets from   bankrupt explosives detection equipment maker Implant Sciences   Corp, a Platinum holding. ” ’   ”The funds still have material value,” said the person, who   requested anonymity because he did not want to be associated with   Platinum. ’ ’   Houma,   Shamrock Energy Solutions LLC was one of   about 285 creditors to put in claims for $1. 2 billion when Black   Elk went bankrupt. ’ ’   ”Obviously we are excited with the fact that justice will finally   prevail,” Rene Breaux, Shamrock’’s chief financial officer, said   by telephone on Wednesday. ”But we are very sad in the fact that   we are going to have to eat about a $1 million because we got   taken advantage of.” ’ ’   A lawyer for Shamrock, Scott Scofield, said he would be ”stunned”   if unsecured Black Elk creditors like his client got more than 20   percent of their money back. ’ ”   For California Bay Area energy entrepreneur Michael Petras,   Monday’s arrests brought some sense of vindication. ” ’   Petras has warned regulators about Platinum for years after the   collapse of the business he launched with Gary Mole, Franklin   Power Company. ’ ’   Mole went on to found Glacial Energy Holdings, which became a   Platinum holding. Petras has long contended that Mole destroyed   Franklin to create Glacial and then conspired with Platinum to   cheat him out of the millions of dollars he was owed. Reuters   could not verify his claim. Platinum declined to comment and Mole   did not respond to a request for comment. ’ ’   Starting in 2012, Petras made a detailed series of briefings and   complaints about alleged wrongdoing, especially tax evasion, by   Glacial and Platinum, with the New York Attorney General, the   Internal Revenue Service, the SEC, the Department of Justice and   various state public utility commissions, Petras said. ’ ”   In September 2015, Mole was arrested and charged with tax evasion   by the New York Attorney General. Mole pleaded not guilty. The   government’s charges this week included some of what Petras told   them about Platinum’s involvement with Black Elk. ” ’   Petras said by phone on Wednesday that his obsessive work on   Platinum had taken a personal and financial toll, but he   expressed pride at having done ”a public service.” ’ ’   ”The only disappointment I have is it took so long and the only   regret I have is that the value I was entitled to I will never   likely recover,” he said. ’ ’   (Reporting by Lawrence Delevingne; Editing by Frances Kerry) ’