’  ’ ’   Outgoing President Barack Obama has made no secret of the fact   that he thinks Donald Trump’s     plan to create a   database of Muslims in the United States is a bad idea, but once   the   takes office, there won’t be anything he can   do to stop him. On his way out the door, however, Obama did put   an obstacle in Trump’s way. ’ ’   The Department of Homeland Security on Thursday officially shut   down the National Security   Registration System, a   leftover program put in place in 2002 following the   terror   attacks a year earlier. The controversial program required males   aged 16 and older who enter the U. S. from specified countries to   be fingerprinted, photographed, and interviewed about their   plans. The program is also extended to people already living   legally in the U. S. if they came from countries on the list. ’ ’   Of the 25 countries named in the regulation, all but one, North   Korea, were majority Muslim nations, leading to charges that the   rule was discriminatory. However, the system’s own flaws were its   downfall. The program turned out to be expensive to implement,   unwieldy in operation, and worst of all, redundant.  ’ ’   In 2011, after agencies had already effectively stopped enforcing   some of the provisions of the system, the Obama administration   officially mothballed the program, saying that modernized   information systems monitoring travelers moving in and out of the   country were already providing the information that the NSEERS   program collected. ’ ’   Even though the program was no longer operational, the   regulations that implemented it were still on the books in the   Code of Federal Regulations. As of Friday, that will change, when   a final rule by DHS is announced in the Federal Register. ’ ’   A draft version of the rule,  says, “The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) is   removing outdated regulations relating to an obsolete special   registration program for certain nonimmigrants. DHS ceased use of   the National Security   Registration system (NSEERS)   program in 2011 after finding that the program was redundant,   captured data manually that was already captured through   automated systems, and no longer provided an increase in security   in light of DHS’s evolving assessment of the threat posed to the   United States by international terrorism. The regulatory   structure pertaining to NSEERS no longer provides a discernible   public benefit as the program has been rendered obsolete.   Accordingly, DHS is removing the special registration program   regulations. ” ’ ’  ’ ’   In a statement, a DHS official added, “The intervening years have   shown that NSEERS is not only obsolete but that its use would   divert limited personnel and resources from more effective   measures. ” ’ ’   While eliminating the implementing regulations of a     program may seem like a pointless exercise, it   isn’t. By taking the NSEERS system completely off the books, the   Obama administration is foreclosing the possibility that the   Trump administration could quickly resurrect the program. ’ ’   New regulations would be subject to the   notice and   comment requirements of the Administrative Procedure Act, which   could delay the implementation of a new Muslim registry   indefinitely. ’ ’   The notice came just a day after   Trump seemed to   suggest that a recent terror attack on a Christmas market in the   German capital of Berlin vindicated his call, early in the   campaign, for a ban on Muslims entering the country and the   suggestion that creating a registry of Muslims was also possible. ’ ’   “You know my plans,” Mr. Trump said after a reporter asked him if   the Berlin attack made him consider pressing ahead with a Muslim   ban or registry. “All along, I’ve been proven to be right. One   hundred percent correct. ” ’ ’   A spokesperson later said that Trump was simply restating his   plan to “suspend admission of those from countries with high   terrorism rates and apply a strict vetting procedure for those   seeking entry in order to protect American lives. ” ’ ’   The Obama administration, though, doesn’t appear to be taking any   chances. ’