’  ’ ’   DUBAI (Reuters)   Iran said on Sunday it had negotiated to pay   only about half the announced price for 80 new Boeing airliners   in an order that the American planemaker had said was worth $16. 6   billion. ’ ”   Boeing and its European rival Airbus have both signed huge   contracts this month to supply airliners to Iran, the first such   deals since international sanctions were lifted under a deal to   curb Tehran’s nuclear program. ” ”   Replacing Iran’s antiquated civil aviation fleet is one of the   biggest economic opportunities of the 2015 accord to lift   sanctions, which was negotiated by the outgoing administration of   U. S. President Barack Obama. President elect Donald Trump is a   vocal critic of the pact. ” ”   Despite Iran’s great need for new planes to replace those from   the sanctions era, it has entered the market at a time when   Boeing, Airbus and smaller planemakers have all faced a downturn   in orders, and are therefore expected to offer deep discounts. ” ’   Boeing said this month it was cutting production of its 777     jet due to a drop in demand. ’ ’’ ’   ”Boeing has announced that its IranAir contract is worth $16. 6   billion. However, considering the nature of our order and its   choice possibilities, the purchase contract for 80 Boeing   aircraft is worth about 50 percent of that amount,” said Deputy   Transport Minister Asghar   quoted by Iran’’s IRNA   state news agency. ’ ’   A Boeing spokesman in Dubai was not available to comment. ’ ”   Airbus’s contract to sell 100 jets to IranAir, signed on   Thursday, would be worth $ $20 billion at list prices, but the   head of IranAir has been quoted as saying the value of the   contract would not exceed $10 billion. ” ’   The government of President Hassan Rouhani, a pragmatist, has   pushed to finalize aircraft deals to show results from the   nuclear accord with world power to end sanctions. He faces   criticism at home from hardliners over the cost of the purchases. ’ ’     also said on Sunday that IranAir may exercise an   option to buy 20 more aircraft from ATR, a European maker of   regional turboprops, in addition to a planned firm order of 20. A   team from the planemaker would arrive in Tehran next week for   final talks. ’ ’   ”The final round of talks will be held with ATR representatives   (next) week and we expect the IranAir contract to be signed . ..   in the following week,” he told IRNA. ’ ’   ”The purchase of 20 planes has been finalised and Iran may buy 20   more planes,” said   adding that the contract for   20 planes was worth less than $500 million. ’ ’   In February, ATR,   by Airbus and Italy’’s Finmeccanica    reported preliminary orders from Iran for 20 ATR   aircraft   and options for another 20. IranAir said on Twitter that a new   ATR turboprop would join its fleet ”soon”. ’ ’   (Reporting by Dubai newsroom, additional reporting by Tim Hepher   in Paris; editing by Peter Graff) ’