’  ’ ’   WASHINGTON (AP)  —   Donald Trump spent the past two years attacking   rival Hillary Clinton as crooked, corrupt, and weak. ’ ’   But some of those attacks seem to have already slipped into the   history books. ’ ’   From installing Wall Street executives in his Cabinet to avoiding   news conferences, the   is adopting some of the   same behavior for which he criticized Clinton during their fiery   presidential campaign. ’ ”   Here’s a look at what Trump said then  —   and what he’s doing now: ” ’   ___ ’ ’’ ’   Then: ”I know the guys at Goldman Sachs,” Trump said at a South   Carolina rally in February, when he was locked in a fierce   primary battle with Texas Sen. Ted Cruz. ”They have total, total   control over him. Just like they have total control over Hillary   Clinton.” ’ ”   Now: A number of former employees of the Wall Street bank will   pay a key role in crafting Trump’s economic policy. He’s tapped   Goldman Sachs president Gary Cohn to lead the White House   National Economic Council. Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary   nominee, spent 17 years working at Goldman Sachs and Steve   Bannon, Trump’s chief strategist and senior counselor, started   his career as an investment banker at the firm. ” ”   Trump is following in a long political tradition, though one he   derided on the campaign trail: If Cohn accepts the nomination,   he’ll be the third Goldman executive to run the NEC. ” ’   ___ ’ ’   Then: ”Crooked Hillary. Look, can you imagine another four years   of the Clintons? Seriously. It’’s time to move on. And she’’s   totally controlled by Wall Street and all these people that gave   her millions,” Trump said at a May rally in Lynden, Washington. ’ ’   Now: Trump has stocked his Cabinet with six top donors  —   far more   than any recent White House. ”I want people that made a fortune.   Because now they’’re negotiating with you, OK?” Trump said, in a   December 9 speech in Des Moines. ’ ’   The biggest giver? Incoming small business administrator Linda   McMahon gave $7. 5 million to a super PAC backing Trump, more than   a third of the money collected by the political action committee. ’ ’   ___ ’ ’   Then: ”She doesn’’t do news conferences, because she can’’t,” Trump   said at an August rally in Ashburn, Virginia. ”She’’s so dishonest   she doesn’’t want people peppering her with questions.” ’ ’   Now: Trump opened his last news conference on July 27, saying:   ”You know, I put myself through your news conferences often, not   that it’’s fun.” ’ ”   He hasn’t held once since. ” ’   Trump skipped the news conference a   typically   gives after winning the White House. Instead, he released a   YouTube video of under three minutes. This week, Trump abruptly   canceled plans to hold his first   news conference,   opting instead to describe his plans for managing his businesses   in tweets. ”I will hold a press conference in the near future to   discuss the business, Cabinet picks and all other topics of   interest. Busy times!” he tweeted in  . ’ ’   ___ ’ ’   Then: ”It is impossible to figure out where the Clinton   Foundation ends and the State Department begins. It is now   abundantly clear that the Clintons set up a business to profit   from public office. They sold access and specific actions by and   really for I guess the making of large amounts of money,” Trump   said at an August rally in Austin. ’ ’   Now: While Trump has promised to separate himself from his   businesses, there is plenty of overlap between his enterprises   and his immediate family. His companies will be run by his sons,   Donald Jr and Eric. And his daughter, Ivanka, and      Jared Kushner, have joined Trump at a number of meetings with   world leaders of countries where the family has financial   interests. ’ ’   In a financial disclosure he was required to file during the   campaign, Trump listed stakes in about 500 companies in at least   25 countries. ’ ’   Ivanka, in particular, has been caught making early efforts to   leverage her father’’s new position into profits. After an   interview with the family appeared on ”60 Minutes,” her jewelry   company, Ivanka Trump Fine Jewelry, blasted out an email   promoting the $10, 800 gold bangle bracelet that she had worn   during the appearance. The company later said they were   ”proactively discussing new policies and procedures.” ’ ”   Ivanka is also auctioning off a private coffee meeting with her   to benefit her brother’s foundation. The meeting is valued at   $50, 000, with the current top bid coming in at $25, 000. ” ’   ”United States Secret Service will be Present for the Duration of   the Experience,” warns the auction site. ’ ’   Trump on Saturday said he would dissolve his charitable   foundation amid efforts to eliminate any conflicts of interest   before he takes office next month. ’ ’   ___ ’ ’   Then: ”If I win, I am going to instruct my attorney general to   get a special prosecutor to look into your situation, because   there has never been so many lies, so much deception. There has   never been anything like it, and we’’re going to have a special   prosecutor,” Trump said in the October presidential debate. ’ ’   Now: Since winning office, Trump has said he has no intention of   pushing for an investigation into Clinton’’s use of a private   email server as secretary of State or the workings of her family   foundation. ”It’’s just not something that I feel very strongly   about,” he told the New York Times. ’ ’   ”She went through a lot. And suffered greatly in many different   ways,” he said. ”I’’m not looking to hurt them.” ’