’  ’ ’     Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin   went back and forth making public statement about  this week, days after   President Barack Obama  to warn Russia against   continued hacking. ’ ’   And on Wednesday,  almost all   communication channels between Moscow and the US were frozen. ’ ’   While it seemed tensions were high between the two   countries, the incoming Trump administration seemed to be looking   to soothe relations with the Kremlin. And Putin   appeared open to that possibility. ’ ’   At his   press conference on Friday, Putin said he   believed that ”a substantial part of the American people share   similar views with us on the world’’s organization, what we ought   to be doing, and the common threats and challenges we are   facing.” He noted that shared values could provide a ”good   foundation” to ”build relations between two such powerful   countries.” ’ ’   Putin also  which   Trump fawned over in a statement issued Friday. ’ ’’ ’   In the letter, Putin extended his ”warmest Christmas and New   Year greetings” to ”his excellency Donald Trump” and offered   ”sincere wishes to you and your family of sound health,   happiness, well being, success, and all the best.” ’ ’   It all seemed to indicate an opening for increased   diplomacy between the US and Russia despite recent tensions. ’ ’   ”At Putin’’s   conference today he struck a softer tone on   a number of issues  —   nukes, Ukraine, etc. ,” Boris Zilberman, a   Russia expert at the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies,   told Business Insider in an email. ’ ’   ”  Trump also signaled a willingness to reassess   the relationship between DC and Moscow in his release of Putin’’s   letter,” What will be important to   watch is the way in which both sides approach they very real and   very thorny issues in the relationship  —   which Putin said at his   conference currently ’’can’’t be worse. ’’” ’ ’   Putin saying that current relations ”can’’t be worse” seems to   indicate a hope for improvement. ’ ’   ”Starting at such a low point presents an opportunity  —   through   small verifiable confidence building measures  —   to explore how   these deep conflicts in the relationship might be addressed,”   Zilberman said. ”The warmer tone from the incoming White House   and the Kremlin are a play to explore those possibilities.” ’ ’   Nuclear proliferation might end up being a key issue in     relations going forward. ’ ’   On Thursday, Putin boasted about the strength of his military,   claiming it was more powerful than any potential   aggressor. Trump tweeted hours later the US must   ”expand its nuclear capability” until ”the world comes to its   senses.” ’ ’   And on Friday, Trump went even further. MSNBC host Mika   Brzezinski said that when she asked him if his   tweet might spur other countries to increase their   nuclear arsenals,  ’ ”   While most experts agreed that Trump’s statements about nuclear   proliferation were dangerous, the Kremlin might actually be   happy to rise to the challenge. ” ’   ”I think Mr. Putin will be delighted,” James Acton,     of the nuclear policy program at the Carnegie Endowment for   International Peace, told Business Insider on Friday. ’ ’   ”Putin has for a long time called for strengthening Russia’’s   nuclear deterrent remaining within the limits of arms control.   But this is fantastic from his perspective because it legitimizes   a lot of the dangerous and destabilizing action he’’d like to do   with Russia’’s nuclear arsenal.” ’ ’   A supposed military challenge from America could play well   domestically in Russia, Acton said. ’ ’   ”From his own perspective, that’’s not such a bad thing,” Acton   said. ”The Putin regime in recent years has been founded upon    . A threat from America is a useful thing for him   to have domestically.” ’ ’   At the end of the day, Trump ”is clearly [Putin’’s] man in   the White House,” Acton said. ’ ’   ”Russia’s position for the next few months is going to be to not   wind up Trump, to try to get a level relationship with him,”   Acton said. Still, ”a bromance is not a good relationship on   which to build   relations.” ’