’  ’ ”   Congressional Republicans are planning a massive overhaul of the   nation’s tax system, a heavy political lift that could ultimately   affect families at every income level and businesses of every   size. ” ”   Their goal is to simplify a complicated tax code that rewards   wealthy people with smart accountants, and corporations that can   easily shift profits  —   and jobs  —   overseas. It won’t be easy. The   last time it was done was 30 years ago. ” ’   Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell,  . and Speaker Paul   Ryan,  . have vowed to pass a tax package in 2017 that would   not add to the budget deficit. The Washington term is ”revenue   neutral.” ’ ’   It means that for every tax cut there has to be a tax increase,   creating winners and losers. Lawmakers would get some leeway if     congressional analysts project that a tax cut would   increase economic growth, raising revenue without increasing   taxes. ’ ’   Nevertheless, passing a massive tax package will require some   tough votes, politically. ’ ”   Some key Republican senators want to share the political risk   with Democrats. They argue that a tax overhaul must be bipartisan   to be fully embraced by the public. They cite President Barack   Obama’s health law  —   which passed in 2010 without any Republican   votes  —   as a major policy initiative that remains divisive. ” ’   Congressional Democrats say they are eager to have a say in   overhauling the tax code. But McConnell, who faulted Democrats   for acting unilaterally on health care, is laying the groundwork   to pass a purely partisan bill. ’ ’   Both McConnell and Ryan said they plan to use a legislative   maneuver that would prevent Senate Democrats from using the   filibuster to block a tax bill. ’ ”   McConnell says he wants the Senate to tackle a tax plan in the   spring, after Congress repeals Obama’s health law. House   Republicans are more eager to get started, but haven’t set a   timeline. ” ’   Some things to know about Republican efforts to overhaul the tax   code: ’ ’  ’ ’   House Republicans have released the outline of a tax plan that   would lower the top individual income tax rate from 39. 6 percent   to 33 percent, and reduce the number of tax brackets from seven   to three. The gist of the plan is to lower tax rates for just   about everyone, and make up the lost revenue by scaling back   exemptions, deductions and credits. ’ ’   The plan, however, retains some of the most popular tax breaks,   including those for paying a mortgage, going to college, making   charitable contributions and having children. ’ ’   The standard deduction would be increased, giving taxpayers less   incentive to itemize their deductions. ’ ’   The   Tax Policy Center says the plan would reduce   revenues by $3 trillion over the first decade, with most of the   savings going to the   households. ’ ”   That’s not revenue neutral. ” ’   Small business owners would get a special top tax rate of 25   percent. ’ ’   Investment income would be taxed like wages, but investors would   only have to pay taxes on half of this income. ’ ’  ’ ’   Senate Republicans have yet to coalesce around a comprehensive   plan, or even an outline. ’ ”   Trump’s plan has fewer details. He promises a tax cut for every   income level, with more   families paying no income tax   at all. ” ”   The Tax Policy Center says Trump’s plan would reduce revenues by   a whopping $9. 5 trillion over the first decade, with most of the   tax benefits going to the wealthiest taxpayers. Trump has   disputed the analysis. ” ’   Like the House plan, Trump would reduce the top income tax rate   for individuals to 33 percent, and he would reduce the number of   tax brackets to three. He would also increase the standard   deduction. ’ ”   Trump has embraced two ideas championed by Obama but repeatedly   rejected by Republicans over the past eight years. Trump’s plan   would cap itemized deductions for married couples making more   than $200, 000 a year. It would also tax carried interest, which   are fees charged by investment fund managers, as regular income   instead of capital gains. ” ’  ’ ’   The top corporate income tax rate in the U. S. is 35 percent, the   highest in the industrialized world. However, the tax is riddled   with so many exemptions, deductions and credits that most   corporations pay much less. ’ ’   Both Trump and House Republicans want to lower the rate, and pay   for it by scaling back tax breaks. ’ ’   Trump wants to lower the corporate tax rate to 15 percent. Ryan   says 20 percent is more realistic, to avoid increasing the budget   deficit. ’ ”   This is one of the most controversial parts of the House   Republicans’ tax plan. It is also key to making it work. ” ’   Under current law, the United States taxes the profits of   U. S.  companies, even if the money is made overseas.   However, taxes on foreign income are deferred until a company   either reinvests the profits in the U. S. or distributes them to   shareholders. ’ ’   Critics say the system encourages U. S.  corporations to   invest profits overseas or, more dramatically, to shift   operations and jobs abroad to avoid U. S. taxes. ’ ”   House Republicans want to scrap America’s worldwide tax system   and replace it with a tax that is based on where a firm’s   products are consumed, rather than where they are produced. ” ’   Under the system, American companies that produce and sell their   products in the U. S. would pay the new 20 percent corporate tax   rate on profits from these sales. However, if a company exports a   product abroad, the profits from that sale would not be taxed by   the U. S. ’ ”   There’s more: Foreign companies that import goods to the U. S.   would have to pay the tax, increasing the cost of imports. ” ’   Exporters love the idea. But importers, including big retailers   and consumer electronics firms, say it could lead to steep price   increases on consumer goods. The lobbying has already begun. ’