’  ’ ”   As I’ve said before, we’ve reached the zenith of the     sandwich  —   and I couldn’t be happier. ” ’   These are tumultuous times; more than ever, we need some crispy,   crunchy, golden, and delicious chicken served up in a bun. ’ ’   I  a  of chicken sandwiches from major   chains this   year to find which chain does it best. ’ ”   There were some surprises (Arby’s makes a     sandwich?) and some severe disappointments.  ” ”   But what’s most surprising  —   to me, at least  —   are the   sandwiches which tasted the best. Not McDonald’s new recipe, not   Wendy’s reliable Homestyle, not even   ’s inimitable   classic snagged the top spot. ” ”   It was KFC’s sandwich, sharing the throne with Shake   Shack’s. ” ’  ’ ’   I can already hear the cries: What? How could    not   be the best of them all? KFC, the chain of  and the ? And then a chicken sandwich from a burger   joint? Come on. ’ ”   The Doublicious from KFC is a beautiful creation. A crispy   breast of KFC’s finest chicken, resplendent with the   mysterious herbs and spices, swathed in bacon, Monterrey Jack   cheese, and some sweet, tangy sauce  —   all lovingly embraced by a   fluffy and lightly sweet Hawaiian bun. ” ”   Smokey bacon lends a richness to the sandwich that   melds seamlessly with the mild and rich cheese. The chicken is   crispy and thin. There’s the unmistakable tang of   buttermilk in every bite. ” ’  ’ ’   The sauce seems to be a combination of mayonnaise and   barbecue sauce, with perhaps a pinch of paprika and garlic.   It adds a perfect balance of smooth, creamy flavor and a   vinegary kick all while managing to play second fiddle to the   chicken and bacon.  ’ ’   In terms of quality, it seems more genuine than   countless other items on the menu. There’’s little ”gross   factor” with this sandwich, which can’’t be said for most of the   competition, or even of KFC’’s own sides.  ’ ”   And yes,   ’s sandwiches are always fantastic  —   I’m not   denying this by any stretch of the imagination. Classics are   classics for a reason, and if we were judging on terms of   tradition,    would walk away victorious with ease. ” ’   But KFC’’s Doublicious is a surprisingly flavorful, rich sandwich   that manages to sidestep the looming, greasy shadow of KFC’’s   previous sandwich of note, the     that was   the ”.”  ’ ”   It’s not too much, or too little; it’s simply delicious.  ” ”   Does it beat Shake Shack’s chicken sandwich? That’s a harder   question to answer.  ” ’  ’ ”   Shake Shack’s beautifully crisp and golden creation was  in 2015 as a test item in Brooklyn locations   only  —   its nationwide release happened in January 2016, meaning   it counts as a contender for best chicken sandwich of 2016.  ” ”   And boy, what a contender.   ’a been somebody? This sandwich oozes class,   plus a deliciously tangy and smooth herb mayonnaise that   dances a delicate waltz with the tart, crunchy pickles and   perfectly peppered breading on the chicken.  ” ’   This chicken sandwich is pretty darn close to the American ideal   of a chicken sandwich: fried to a crispy crunch, yet juicy and   tender; mayo and pickles and lettuce swaddled by a plush potato   bun.  ’ ’  ’ ”   But comparing it to KFC’s Doublicious is comparing apples to   oranges  —   bacon to, well, chicken. They’re both   staggeringly delicious in their own ways. The Doublicious   relies on a vinegar and barbecue sauce, and salty bacon to   take the eater on a strangely satisfying journey  —   an itinerary   hitting every taste bud grouping from salty to sweet. The Colonel   would’ve made a   taste bud travel agent, if   either were still around.  ” ”   The Chick’n Shack takes a more traditional approach, which is   downright refreshing in today’s stunt food environment. Nothing   here but a bun, some pickles and lettuce, and some herb mayo,   slathered on perhaps the most rewarding fried chicken breast   ever known in the realm of chain restaurants. It has little   pretense  —   its superiority lies only in its quality and delivery. ” ’   So do yourself a favor and start 2017 off on a good note  —   try   one of these pinnacles of fried fowl. Or even better, try both. ’