WASHINGTON  —   Sounding like a frustrated Cassandra, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. lamented last week that Hillary Clinton had not done enough to reach white   voters in the presidential campaign. Even more egregious to Mr. Biden, some fellow Democrats had concluded that   whites were not even worth pursuing. “I mean these are good people, man!” Mr. Biden exclaimed in an interview on CNN. “These aren’t racists. These aren’t sexists. ” With his typically unambiguous assessment, the vice president thrust himself into a heated debate that has shaped the Democrats’   since Donald J. Trump won the presidency: Should the party continue tailoring its message to the   young and nonwhite constituencies that propelled President Obama, or make a more concerted effort to win over the white voters who have drifted away? For Democrats, the election last month has become a Rorschach test. Some see Mrs. Clinton’s loss as a result of an unfortunate series of flukes  —   Russian tampering, a late intervention by the Federal Bureau of Investigation director and a poor allocation of resources  —   but little more than a speed bump on the road to a demographic majority. Others believe the results reflect a more worrisome trend that could doom the party. It is a sensitive topic, touching on race and class, but the choices that Democrats make in the coming months will shape their   identity and carry major implications in both the 2018 midterm elections and the next presidential race. Few leading Democrats are arguing for a   reconsideration of the party’s core liberal agenda. After all, history is a game of inches, and Mrs. Clinton won the popular vote by more than 2. 8 million votes, but lost the presidency by 77, 000 votes in Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin  —   less than the capacity crowd at Lambeau Field on any given Sunday. “Demographically, the Electoral College is heading in the right direction” for Democrats, Dan Pfeiffer, a former adviser to Mr. Obama, said. What Mr. Trump pulled off, he added, “would be hard to replicate. ” Even those who believe the party has become too fixated on identity politics do not think it should reverse course on such issues as immigration, criminal justice and legal protections for gay and transgender Americans. Yet as a matter of politics, those in Mr. Biden’s camp believe the party’s ethos of inclusion may add up to less than the sum of its parts. In the minds of those Democrats, they will not be a majority party again in Washington or across much of the country without winning back white voters of modest means. “You don’t need those people?” Tom Vilsack, the agriculture secretary, asked. “You’re going to wait how many decades before this other strategy works?” Mr. Vilsack, a former Iowa governor, had tried to push Mrs. Clinton, a longtime ally, toward focusing more on rural America, but his pleas fell on deaf ears. He was just as exasperated over what he described as his party’s   pattern of neglect of many of the voters he spent eight years working with in his cabinet post. “Rural America is 15 percent of America’s population,” Mr. Vilsack said. “It’s the same percentage as   it’s the same percentage as Hispanics. We spend a lot of time thinking about that 15 percent  —   and we should, God bless them, we should. But not to the exclusion of the other 15 percent. ” In their zeal for pursuing clearly defined constituencies, some Democrats now worry they missed the bigger picture: failing to deliver a message that would cut across all constituencies, and ceding too much territory to Republicans in whiter, more conservative areas that Mr. Trump won by wider margins than other recent Republican nominees. Entering the race for chairman of the Democratic National Committee on Thursday, Labor Secretary Thomas E. Perez summed up this view in blunt terms. “We got our ass kicked in a lot of these rural pockets because we weren’t there in sufficient force,” Mr. Perez said. Representative Gwen Graham, Democrat of Florida and a likely candidate for governor in 2018, called her party’s message “too funneled. ” It needed to be more open to pursuing moderate and conservative voters, she said. Ms. Graham, who was elected in a   district in the Florida Panhandle, said she would campaign across every part of the state if she ran for governor. Though she declined to criticize her party’s presidential nominee directly, such campaigning would be starkly different from the approach Mrs. Clinton took in 2016, when she focused overwhelmingly on the state’s biggest metropolitan areas. “I would run a   strategy,” Ms. Graham said. “And I would reach out to all different kinds of Democrats and Republicans, along the ideological spectrum. ” But while this may make for a good message at the outset of a campaign, it is, to a vocal contingent of Democratic strategists, a dated approach that ignores inexorable political and demographic trendlines. To win in a changing country, these Democrats said, the party must tailor a platform and strategy that explicitly appealed to younger and nonwhite voters on issues like policing, climate change and immigration. Cornell Belcher, a Democratic pollster, said it was folly to continue developing a message for and devoting considerable resources to “a shrinking, increasingly resistant market. ” Mr. Belcher recalled focus groups in North Carolina this year in which nonwhite voters who had come out for Mr. Obama’s two elections could not name the party’s Senate candidate in the state. (It was Deborah Ross she lost.) “We’re spending all of our resources on broadcast television chasing this mythical unicorn white swing voter,” he said. Mr. Belcher, who has published a new book about race and the Obama presidency, “A Black Man in the White House,” said the party should not ignore white voters. But he said Democrats also should not react to this election by refashioning their appeal as if the country were just as white as it was when Bill Clinton and other centrists began the Democratic Leadership Council 30 years ago. “Why would we go back to running campaigns as though it’s the 1980s?” Mr. Belcher asked. “Because it’s not the 1980s. ” Mr. Pfeiffer, the former Obama adviser, noted that red states like Arizona and Georgia were closer to turning blue this year even as Mrs. Clinton lost, and argued that new arrivals in Florida and North Carolina would make those states tilt Democratic. Yet even Democrats in solidly blue states, who can in theory win elections without a single conservative vote, said the party’s   message was lacking. Mayor Eric M. Garcetti of Los Angeles said Democrats had not explained to many voters how tolerant social values translated into government action. “Of course we are for a tolerant, diverse, inclusive, cooperative future,” he said. “It isn’t enough. ” Mr. Garcetti likened the party’s message to the gestures of conciliation proposed by civic leaders in Los Angeles after the Rodney King riots in the 1990s  —   well intentioned but insufficient. “If the starting point is: ‘Hey, we are a party and we are a country that stands for blacks and Koreans and people of all stripes liking each other,’ that’s not an agenda,” Mr. Garcetti said. “These values aren’t just about social inclusion. They’re about getting things done. ”