How exactly did Alec Baldwin construct his mischievously exaggerated,   searingly funny portrayal of Donald J. Trump on “Saturday Night Live”? In the latest episode of “The ” he explains at length, switching in and out of the  ’s character as he describes his comedic craft. Here, he recalls his anxious, improvised debut as Mr. Trump: I spoke with Sarah Maslin Nir, my colleague who conducted (and, thankfully, recorded) the original conversation with Mr. Baldwin, his first interview about the comedic role. The liberal Mr. Baldwin concedes that he holds the   in low regard. But that has not stopped him from becoming a close student of Mr. Trump’s every physical quirk and verbal tic  —   he is particularly taken with Mr. Trump’s tendencies to pause “and then what he comes to is something that you didn’t really have to pause to come up with that. ” But is the performance an act for the sake of comedy or an act of political rebellion? “I’m here doing a show,” Mr. Baldwin says. “I’m a performer, an actor that’s here doing a show. It’s a great part. ” That said, he isn’t shy about where he stands. “I don’t hate him. I want him to enjoy his life. I just want him to not be the president of the United States  —   as quickly as possible. ” As a satirical version of Mr. Trump, Mr. Baldwin now deals with an unexpected dilemma, for him, anyway: Is his portrayal making the new president more human, and thus, more sympathetic? Ms. Nir asked him about that, too. That’s the fake Mr. Trump. The real Mr. Trump had a busy and consequential week, grappling with   global affairs in Germany, Turkey, Russia and Syria that are challenging a presidency focused on domestic economic revival. What did we learn about his interest and influence over international events? I put that question to the White House reporters Maggie Haberman and Mark Landler.   almost always remain silent on foreign policy until their inauguration, to avoid confusing the world about who, exactly, is commander in chief. On this, Mr. Landler and Ms. Haberman agree: Mr. Trump, and his very active Twitter account, have no interest in abiding by that practice. “He doesn’t subscribe to the old idea that the country has one president at a time,” Mr. Landler says. Ms. Haberman questions how much we can deduce about his policy once in office from his current behavior. “When it is not Trump triangulating against Obama and Trump actually having to be the only president, I don’t know what we’re going to see in terms of foreign policy. It’s a little easier for him to do this right now. ” From a desktop or laptop, you can listen by pressing play on the button above. Or if you’re on a mobile device, the instructions below will help you find and subscribe to the series. On your iPhone or iPad: 1. Open your podcast app. It’s a   app called “Podcasts” with a purple icon. (This link may help.) 2. Search for the series. Tap on the “search” magnifying glass icon at the bottom of the screen, type in “The  ” and select it from the list of results. 3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, tap on the “subscribe” button to have new episodes sent to your phone free. You may want to adjust your notifications to be alerted when a new episode arrives. 4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before deciding to subscribe, tap on the episode title from the list on the series page. If you have an internet connection, you’ll be able to stream the episode. On your Android phone or tablet: 1. Open your podcast app. It’s a   app called “Play Music” with an    icon. (This link may help.) 2. Search for the series. Click on the magnifying glass icon at the top of the screen, search for the name of the series and select it from the list of results. You may have to scroll down to find the “Podcasts” search results. 3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, click on the word “subscribe” to have new episodes sent to your phone free. 4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before deciding to subscribe, click on the episode title from the list on the series page. If you have an internet connection, you’ll be able to stream the episode.