More than five months after a mysterious substance exploded in Central Park, blowing off the lower part of a    man’s left leg, many questions about the episode persist. Law enforcement officials continue to believe the blast may have been the result of an amateur’s experiment with homemade explosives. But they have yet to determine why the explosive was in the park or to identify a suspect or make an arrest. On Friday, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, which is investigating the explosion along with the New York Police Department, said it would offer a $12, 500 reward for information that led to a suspect, bringing the total amount of reward money being offered by law enforcement agencies in connection with the blast to $25, 000. The authorities also asked for anyone to come forward who might have taken photographs or videos near the explosion site, around the entrance to the park at 60th Street and Fifth Avenue, in the days before the blast. The announcement came as investigators continued to struggle to solve the mystery behind the July 3 explosion. Connor Golden, who was visiting New York City from Virginia, was climbing down from a rock formation with two friends when a bag he stepped on exploded around 11 a. m. Occurring in such a heavily used section of the city on a holiday weekend, the accident rattled people in the area. The sense of unease was compounded by news media reports, which proved untrue, that the police had shut down the entire   park. Soon after the explosion, officials suggested they believed it was a fireworks experiment gone awry. But no motive or explanation has yet been established. The police have said they do not believe the explosive was placed as a booby trap. Mr. Golden’s family has criticized those characterizations. “We’ve consistently been maintaining that the public has been lulled in the false sense of complacency by early statements by officials,” Kevin Golden, Mr. Golden’s father, said in a telephone interview from Virginia on Friday. The younger Mr. Golden has returned to the University of Miami, where he is a sophomore. He now has a prosthetic leg. His family has been raising money to help defray the medical expenses they incurred because of the injury. Kevin Golden said the family has kept in touch with investigators in New York and that he had been lobbying officials to describe the explosion with more gravity. The announcement that the reward would double, he said, was “at least partially the result of that pressing. ” “We applaud the additional exposure and think it’s a step in the right direction,” he said. “We think that the people in the New York City area should be concerned about the potential causes of that explosion and should come forward with any information. ”