FOXBOROUGH, Mass.  —   The N. F. L. likes portraying itself as one big family of owners, players and fans who, despite their differences, come together on game days. Yet at the Super Bowl in Houston in two weeks, the N. F. L. may have no choice but to air a public and profound grudge on national television. If the New England Patriots defeat the Pittsburgh Steelers on Sunday as they are favored to do and go on to beat either the Atlanta Falcons or the Green Bay Packers for the title, the league commissioner, Roger Goodell, will have to present the Lombardi Trophy to Robert K. Kraft, the owner of the Patriots. The moment would be delicious payback for Kraft, who is still simmering about the   suspension his quarterback, Tom Brady, served as a result of the cheating scandal known as Deflategate, after the underinflated footballs meant to give him a throwing advantage. In spite  —   or, perhaps, because  —   of it all, New England went   this season and throttled the Houston Texans last week in its playoff opener. Kraft largely kept quiet while the Brady case played out. But in a recent interview, he made clear that he remains annoyed by how his best player and team were pilloried. “Sometimes, the league really messes up, and I think they really messed this up badly,” he said in a   discussion in his Gillette Stadium office here. “But we’ve all agreed to subjugate our right to disrupt everything”  —   the Patriots declined to fight the league over financial penalties it levied on the team  —   “I mean, we can, but we’re a partnership. There’s jealousy, there’s envy, there’s stupidity. Sometimes, life is unfair, and you have to suck it up and move on and not use it as an excuse. ” Let bygones be bygones? Not quite. Goodell has not been seen at a Patriots home game in two years, and on Sunday, rather than face the wrath of Patriots fans, he will, for the second consecutive week, travel to Atlanta for the N. F. C. Championship game instead. This relationship may have evolved into one of the biggest tests of the diplomatic skills  —   in football and in his larger world of finance and philanthropy  —   that Kraft prides himself on. Never mind that he owns one of the most polarizing teams, one that, while certainly beloved in New England, has failed to attract the kind of passionate national following of the Cowboys or the Packers. Some of the distaste, of course, reflects a jealousy created by their four Super Bowl titles  —   and six appearances in the title game  —   over the last 15 years. But there is also the coach, Bill Belichick, who although most likely headed to the Hall of Fame, is hard to love with his taciturn and grumpy manner in public. Also not helping are a series of scandals, including New England’s spying on the New York Jets in 2007, and another involving a former player, Aaron Hernandez, who was convicted of committing a murder that occurred while he was a member of the team. And Brady and those footballs. So the internet likes to discuss things like “15 Reasons Why People Hate the New England Patriots. ” Kraft, a native of Brookline, Mass. who bought the Patriots 23 years ago for a   $172 million, chalks up such animosity to the team’s success. He has an apartment in Manhattan, and in the years after he bought the team, he would get razzed by people on the street. “They used to be aggressive and nasty, and now they’re more respectful because I think we’ve been able to do pretty well and sustained it,” Kraft said. Still, the friction cuts against the image of affability and reason that Kraft, 75, likes to project. When a New York Times reporter stepped into his office, the first thing Kraft did was hand him two small cartons of eggs from his family farm, assuring him they would be the best he had ever eaten. On his desk facing visitors was a small plaque with the greeting “Shalom Y’all!” The 30 minutes allotted for the interview went on way longer, though some of it was given to asides and   tangents. Kraft, whose billions come primarily from a packaging and paper empire and an assortment of other investments, sidestepped questions about whether winning a Super Bowl would have any extra meaning this year. Until Deflategate, he and Goodell publicly got along well, and Kraft takes pride in his facility for building relationships with a wide range of sports figures, celebrities, politicians and business leaders. One week, Secretary of State John Kerry might join him in his suite, and the next it’s media titans like Rupert Murdoch and Leslie Moonves. Among N. F. L. owners, whose politics tilt Republican, Kraft is among the most loyal donors to Democratic candidates. Yet he, as well as Brady and Belichick, considers   Donald J. Trump a good friend, a tricky relationship in heavily Democratic Massachusetts, which voted for Hillary Clinton by a wide margin. Kraft said they met 20 years ago when Trump invited him to play golf at his club in West Palm Beach, Fla. “Loyalty is important to me, and he has been a wonderful friend,” Kraft said. “I think one of the great problems in the country today is the working poor, the middle class, that there hasn’t been growth in income on an equal basis, and I really think the policies he’s going to bring to bear are going to be great for the economic side of America. ” It is hard to tell if his association with Trump is costing the team fans, but then, as a team owner and businessman, he is used to being a target. He has had legal fights with business partners, including those with a stake in the land where Gillette Stadium now stands. Patriots fans, too, lashed out at Kraft for not doing more to fight the N. F. L. during Deflategate. Yet he is influential enough in the league that owners and officials prefer to keep their criticisms of him to private conversations. When Kraft and other team owners clash over league issues, it is usually behind closed doors. “We do have dissent and do have things I think you couldn’t help but have,” said the Dallas Cowboys owner, Jerry Jones, who rivals Kraft for influence in the league. “I think Bob has exhibited disagreement, but he’s also very capable of making and influencing change. I’m someone, if he has ideas, I would certainly be a good listener. ” Kraft is still a very   owner, but three of his sons have taken on greater responsibilities with the Patriots and the family’s portfolio of company investments, including a Major League Soccer team, the New England Revolution. More and more, Kraft said, he is focusing on strategizing and bringing people together. Like Arabs and Jews. He has sought to broker Middle East conciliation through sports and investments, citing economic interdependence as a unifying agent. Several years ago, Kraft, who is Jewish, operated a packaging company that employed Israelis and Palestinians. He has taken dozens of Christian friends to Israel, including Brady and, in 2015, 19 former N. F. L. players, some of whom were baptized in the Jordan River. Still, though he often portrays himself as a unifier, some people  —   or teams  —   do irk him. Like the Indianapolis Colts. During halftime in a victory over the Miami Dolphins last season, while praising Willie McGinest, a linebacker inducted into the team’s hall of fame that night, Kraft made sure to point out that McGinest was on teams that beat the Colts 16 times in 12 seasons. It was seven months after the Colts first suggested that New England used underinflated balls in the A. F. C. Championship game they lost,  . McGinest said he understood how Kraft could still be offended. “When you take away from somebody’s hard work or everything that goes into winning those types of games, it’s pretty upsetting,” said McGinest, now an analyst for NFL Network. “That’s his baby. Those players are all his. That team, it’s his baby. ” At the Patriots, Kraft  —   and, before her death from cancer in 2011, his wife, Myra  —   has had a reputation for forming lasting relationships with his players and engaging in conversations with them beyond football. The Hall of Fame running back Curtis Martin grew close to the Krafts during his three seasons in New England. Martin, who identifies as a Christian, spent some Jewish holidays with the Krafts and so grew to love chicken soup served by Myra Kraft that she would give some to her husband to place in Martin’s locker. “I didn’t deem it as normal,” Martin, who also traveled to Israel with Kraft, said in a telephone interview. “I thought it was something that was very rare. ” Now a businessman himself, Martin cherishes the day during his rookie season, in 1995, when Kraft invited him to a   plant he owned. “Everything has a process to it,” Martin said, explaining the lesson he learned. “And when you neglect the process, you ultimately neglect your ability to be successful at whatever you’re striving for. That’s an experience I’ll never forget. ” Kraft, former players say, is a regular presence in the locker room, where   personnel rarely tread, greeting players, even those who are not stars, by name. Sometimes, he can show a playful,   side. During receiver Donte Stallworth’s first stint in New England, in 2007, he and Randy Moss were leaving the cafeteria on their way to the receivers meeting room when Kraft stopped them in the hallway and handed them a manila folder. Opening it, Moss and Stallworth burst into laughter: Inside was a photograph of Kraft and the rapper 50 Cent sipping mai tais on a beach. “I know you two young men are pretty cool and you guys are young studs,” Kraft told them, according to Stallworth. “I’m an old guy, but I’m not too bad myself. ” Stallworth added: “He doesn’t walk around like he owns the place, even though he does. ” Indeed, Kraft was very at home in his office, which is stuffed with photos, memorabilia and knickknacks. Cradling a big cup of Dunkin Donuts coffee, Kraft spoke about how he had managed to maintain consistent success at the Patriots, whether they win the Super Bowl this year or not. “My job is to keep everyone together, strong big egos, and keep the peace in the family,” he said. Looming large near his desk, propped against a wall, was a painting of Brady.