Six years and contrasting personalities separated Diana Olivarez and her younger brother, Xavier. “I’m very intense,” said Ms. Olivarez, 29. “He was just carefree, didn’t take life too seriously. ” Before Xavier was born, Ms. Olivarez lived in Mexico with her grandparents. Her parents had left for the United States with the intention of finding work and making enough money to eventually return to Mexico and build a house. But once Xavier was born in the United States, the plan changed: Her parents decided to make a life in the Bronx and Ms. Olivarez joined them when she was 6. But she had difficulty adjusting. Her first winter in New York was brutally cold and dark. While her parents worked long hours, she and Xavier were handed off to babysitters. The language barrier was another hurdle. Classmates who spoke Spanish used an unfamiliar dialect, and learning English was difficult because she could not practice it with family members at home. “I became really withdrawn because I couldn’t communicate,” Ms. Olivarez said. In time, she not only taught herself English, but also started to excel in school. She received a scholarship in 2005 to attend Marist College in Poughkeepsie, N. Y. but she could not control her erratic behavior. “I was starting to get in trouble in school and I remember just having a lot of energy where I just couldn’t stop doing things,” Ms. Olivarez said. Her parents observed the behavior but did not address it, she said. Xavier rarely reacted to her outbursts, which only infuriated her, she said. At Marist, Ms. Olivarez learned the cause of her oscillating moods: She was told she had a bipolar disorder. “It costs you a lot of relationships, a lot of money and a lot of time,” she said. “People kind of stay away from you, think you’re trouble. ” Ms. Olivarez said she felt the stigma that society attached to mental illness, and it drove her into denial. She told herself that the problems were not severe, that the disorder was not what led her to drop out of Marist. Ms. Olivarez returned to school in 2011, enrolling at Fordham University’s School of Continuing and Professional Studies, majoring in philosophy and Spanish. In 2013, she married her longtime boyfriend. When she told Xavier about their engagement, he started to cry, a rare moment of affection between the siblings. “He said he felt like he was losing his sister and I said, ‘You aren’t losing me, I’m always going to be there for you,’” Ms. Olivarez recalled. She gave birth to a girl, Jade, in 2014, and made the choice to address her mental illness decided that she could not responsibly raise her daughter while she struggled with an untreated illness. She now takes medication. “It’s very serious if you don’t get the help that you need,” Ms. Olivarez said. “It can kill you. ” In March, Ms. Olivarez gave birth to a second daughter, Ruby. Both of her children are enrolled in early childhood programs with the Children’s Aid Society, one of the eight organizations supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. Jade was placed in an early intervention program after Ms. Olivarez said she observed developmental issues. Ms. Olivarez saw in Jade her own struggles growing up and she knew she had to act, unlike her parents. “I think they just did the best they could,” she said of her parents. “But I look at my daughter and how can I see her going through this and not get her help? You just really need to be aware. ” Ms. Olivarez has since postponed her academic ambitions in order to focus on Jade’s needs. But just as Ms. Olivarez was making strides in her life  —   with her children, her mental illness and her relationship with her brother  —   she was dealt a dramatic setback. Xavier got into an argument with a man on a street corner on the Upper East Side of Manhattan in April and was fatally stabbed. The police arrested a    man, who was charged with murder. The family decided to bury Xavier, who was 22, in Mexico, where Ms. Olivarez’s parents hope to return after they retire in the next few years. “The decision was made to take him there, so they can have him there,” Ms. Olivarez said. The Children’s Aid Society used $1, 000 in Neediest Funds to cover some of the burial costs. Ms. Olivarez, her husband and children live with her parents in the Bronx. They all grieved for Xavier together, which she said helped them connect in ways they had not before. Ms. Olivarez’s mother now helps care for her grandchildren, and has become more attuned to her daughter’s struggles. Ms. Olivarez said her mother now notices when she is under stress and tries to put her at ease. “I still have my ups and my downs but they’re not as intense as they were before,” she said. Ms. Olivarez hopes that by being open about her own challenges, people might become empathetic to others suffering with mental illnesses. She wants everyone to shed the unreasonable fears and misconceptions. “It is so different when you get help,” Ms. Olivarez said. “I think that a lot of people stay in a state of shame,” she added. “They don’t reach out because there is a lot of shame, but life is so much better. ”