Security lines at airports are getting longer  —   much longer  —   and wait times could reach epidemic levels when air travel peaks this summer, according to airlines, airports and federal officials. A combination of fewer Transportation Security Administration screeners, tighter budgets, new checkpoint procedures and growing numbers of passengers is already creating a mess at airports around the country. While federal security officials say they are hiring and training hundreds of additional screening officers, matters are not expected to improve anytime soon. Airline and airport officials have said they fear that the current slowdown will last through the year, and could cause a summer travel meltdown when more than 220 million passengers are expected to fly during the peak travel months of July and August. “This is going to be a rough summer there is no doubt about it,” said Gary Rasicot, who was recently appointed to a newly created position as the T. S. A. ’s chief of operations. “We are probably not at the staffing level we would like to be to address the volume. This is why we are talking about people getting to the airport a little earlier than planned. ” To deal with the expected crowds, Mr. Rasicot said the agency planned to assign 768 new officers to the busiest airports by June 15. The agency is also allocating an extra $26 million for overtime pay, and is looking for ways to move its   dogs where they will have the most effect on reducing wait times. Already, passengers have reported epic lines. Travelers have seen lines stretching to the curb, snaking to other terminal levels or even extending into different concourses. Some have managed to handle the situation with humor. Others have not been quite as forgiving. At Charlotte Douglas International Airport in North Carolina, about 600 passengers missed their flights on March 25 because an inadequate number of screeners led to waits exceeding three hours, airport officials said. Brent D. Cagle, the airport’s interim director of aviation, complained to the T. S. A. calling the episode a “fiasco. ” “This situation could have been avoided, had the T. S. A. had the proper staffing (or overtime budget necessary) to meet customer demand,” Mr. Cagle wrote in a letter to the security agency. (T. S. A. officials denied that the wait had ever been that long, telling local reporters that it had been 75 minutes for a short time.) This was far from an isolated incident. Airports in Atlanta, Miami, New York, Seattle, Denver and Chicago, among others, have all experienced similar problems in recent months. Last month, Denver Airport advised travelers to get to the airport as much as three hours before their flights. Still, people waited for more than an hour and a half to clear security. Airport workers walked up and down the line with therapy dogs and handed out bottled water and candy to travelers, according to one report. The airport accused the T. S. A. of providing an inadequate number of screeners on what was an average Saturday. T. S. A. officials say the main reason for the longer lines is an increase in the number of travelers this year. “Where it starts is actually a volume issue,” said Mr. Rasicot, who was previously a senior official with the United States Coast Guard, as was the T. S. A. ’s administrator, Peter V. Neffenger. “It’s really a   story. The economy is doing well, Americans are traveling more, and this equates with record numbers at our checkpoints. ” At the same time, he said, the number of T. S. A. screeners has declined by about 5, 800 because of tighter budgets. The agency currently has 42, 350 agents assigned for security checks. “We need to stop losing people and we need to add more,” he said. He said some airlines were helping by assigning their own employees to perform some tasks, like helping direct passengers to the right lanes or advising them on when to take off their shoes. Still, many passengers complained that the agency seemed ill prepared to handle the crowds. Ben Cheever, a support engineer for a cybersecurity firm, recently missed a flight in Seattle despite getting to the airport two hours ahead of his 6 p. m. departure to San Diego. Two lines spilled into the airport lobby, he said. A third was reserved for passengers who had signed up to a trusted traveler program called T. S. A. PreCheck that allowed them speedier access. After 90 minutes, the T. S. A. opened a couple of extra lanes, but he still missed his flight. “It was too little, too late,” he said. The next day, he showed up three hours ahead of time. “It was the most miserable business trip I’ve ever had. ” American Airlines said that the slower security lines had forced it to delay flights and rebook passengers who had missed connections. For instance, in a   period in   the airline said, about 6, 800 of its passengers missed their flights after being stuck in T. S. A. lines too long. “T. S. A. lines at checkpoints nationwide have become unacceptable,” said Ross Feinstein, a spokesman for American Airlines. “Lines grew in January, February and March, and now in April, too. We are really concerned about what happens in the summer. ” Another factor that lengthens wait times is that passengers are carrying more bags on board to avoid paying fees for checked luggage. But there’s not much airlines can do, except warn passengers to show up three hours before takeoff for international flights and as much as two hours ahead of their flights for domestic travel. There are other factors at play as well. Last year, the agency vowed to make changes to security and screening procedures to address widespread safety lapses that had been uncovered by the Department of Homeland Security’s inspector general. The audit found that agents had failed to spot weapons and explosives in 95 percent of the undercover tests. The findings prompted criticism by some former and current T. S. A. employees, who claimed that the agency was keen to keep passengers moving quickly through the lines. In response, the T. S. A. stopped randomly processing some passengers who had not enrolled in a prescreening program to go through its expedited PreCheck lanes. It eliminated a program known as Managed Inclusion II, which let officers trained in behavior detection direct some passengers through the faster PreCheck lanes after checking them for explosives using trace detection samplings. Now, T. S. A. agents send unvetted passengers through the PreCheck lanes only if they have been checked by   dogs while waiting in line. (That policy is called Managed Inclusion I.) Meanwhile, T. S. A. agents have been finding record numbers of guns and other weapons that passengers are barred from carrying on the plane. Both the airlines and the T. S. A. said that one way to alleviate the longer wait is to sign up for PreCheck, which allows eligible passengers to go through the speedier lanes without having to take off their shoes and belts or remove laptops and other electronic devices from their bags. So far, seven million people have enrolled in one of several trusted traveler programs, including 2. 5 million in the T. S. A. PreCheck program and 2. 5 million in Global Entry, a program run by Customs and Border Protection. There is an $85 application fee for the T. S. A. program, and a $100 fee for Global Entry. Both are valid for five years. The T. S. A. has added more PreCheck lanes, but the number of people enrolled still falls well short of the 25 million the T. S. A. would like to sign up. Even passengers with PreCheck have had close calls. Anne Marie Harrison, a wine saleswoman who has signed up for PreCheck and who flies out of Newark Liberty International Airport about twice a month, said she nearly missed her flight after waiting more than an hour recently. That day, the security line started downstairs, in the baggage   area. That was odd, she said, especially for a Sunday morning when the airport was usually empty. “Something needs to be done,” she said. “It is just crazy. ” Still, not everyone is complaining.