For a show about a bunch of single dudes in their 20s, it seems remarkable that “Silicon Valley” has aired for a two and a half seasons before plucking the   fruit of nerds awkwardly courting the opposite sex. There have been a few odd occasions where the guys have revealed their struggles with women, like Jared attempting to engineer a friendship between Monica and Carla, or Richard referring to his old laptop as his “girlfriend,” because it’s the only warm thing that’s touched his crotch in three years. To put it generously, the boys have been too busy managing the ups and downs of Pied Piper to brush the cobwebs off their dormant libidos. But now, to the horror of single ladies from Silicon Valley to Estonia, they’re ready to play the field. Opening with the gang on the town, dipping into an extra large virgin margarita, this week’s episode finally offers a glimpse of the men at play. To say they’re rusty is an insult to the ancient Volkswagen perched atop concrete blocks on your neighbor’s front lawn. Richard comes to the table with the exciting news that Winnie, the lovely young woman sitting at the bar, has given him her phone number. Gilfoyle guesses, correctly, that Richard has let it slip that he’s the C. E. O. of his own company. Dinesh surmises that maybe Winnie is a “Founder Hounder,” but defends Richard telling her why he and his friends were celebrating. “Every time you are near a woman,” he says, “it is important to explain why. Otherwise, they get nervous. ” And that, in a nutshell, describes the excruciating awkwardness of their romantic lives. “Bachmanity Insanity” takes the form of many an Apatowian comedy since “The    Virgin,” with guys who know little about love dispensing advice to guys who know even less. But it’s a hilarious specificity of each character that makes the difference: Dinesh creepily macking on his Estonian underling via video chat, which is murky enough to support his claim to be “Pakistani Denzel” Richard spoiling a certain opportunity to have sex by freaking out over a dispute with Winnie over   preferences and Jared, who talks about fanning out his plumage, quietly bedding at least two women in Erlich’s garage. Turns out Russ Hanneman had him pegged all along. Jared’s sexual prowess adds to a character book that’s growing sadder and stranger by the episode. The formality of his language (“She’s magnificent! ,” he declares, when Richard points out Winnie at the bar) the utter sincerity of his sycophancy, the darkness that casually seeps out of him like sap from a Vermont maple: Jared has become the show’s most fascinating character and its most poignant, too, in the way he suppresses a life of unimaginable misfortune with cheery optimism. “I had a stuffed animal named Winnie,” he tells Richard’s new squeeze. “Well, it wasn’t technically an animal. I took a Ziploc bag and stuffed it with old newspaper, then drew a smile on it. ” Zach Woods plays Jared with a gentle composure that slyly undercuts the outrageous things that come out of his mouth and suggests an ease that might make women comfortable around him. At least until they get to know him better. With Pied Piper currently downshifted to the core staff at Erlich’s incubator and a network of   engineers working from abroad, “Bachmanity Insanity” has more freedom to fool around with observational comedy than previous episodes. The only real developments come in the   partnership between Erlich and Big Head, which crashes because of profligate spending, like Big Head paying to move the pool closer to the house (and then back to where it was before) and Erlich blowing money on helicopter rides, a   launch party at Alcatraz and $500, 000 for a blog. Erlich and Big Head were an incompatible team in many ways, but they both turned out to be exceptionally good at burning through $20 million. The episode was also evidence that the show’s writers are capable of zagging when they’re expected to zig. So much of “Silicon Valley” has been staked on the tension and perils of getting a tech   off the ground that it’s a relief to step back and watch these characters try something unfamiliar. The show has been moving forward  —   or lurching, anyway  —   relentless from the beginning, but while the constant conflict has been productive, it runs the risk of sinking into formula. “Bachmanity Insanity” more or less took a breather, and may be the most breezily entertaining episode of the season. Bytes • Thomas Middleditch’s reaction to being called a “formatting Nazi” is a master class of physical and verbal anxiety, like a   meltdown. First, he tries playful   in a German accent: “Me? A Nazi? Zats    . ” Then he tumbles into Hitler and the Holocaust, and a series of regrettable analogies, his body twitching all the while. Not a smooth operator. • “Silicon Valley” prides itself in getting the tech right, and there is indeed a    formatting debate. A casual Internet search reveals this lively article, called “Death to the Space Infidels!” • Every week brings glorious profanities that are not fit to print, so Erlich’s metaphor about his “vengeful, viscous web of payback” cannot be transcribed in full. Let it be known, however, that Erlich’s gift for vulgar phrasing is formidable. • Big Head’s comments on his   Agreement with Hooli suggests that the writers of “Silicon Valley” know their Marx Brothers: “The NDA is actually covered under the NDA, so if I told you about the NDA, it would have been a violation of the NDA. ”