LOS ANGELES  —   Before he fatally shot a U. C. L. A. professor he had studied under, a gunman apparently killed a woman near his home in Minnesota, then drove to California planning to gun down two professors, but found only one of them, law enforcement officials said Thursday. The gunman, identified as Mainak Sarkar, killed Prof. William S. Klug on Wednesday morning, then took his own life, leaving a note asking that someone check on his cat at his apartment in St. Paul, Minn. the Los Angeles police chief, Charlie Beck, said. In that apartment, police found what they described as “a kill list,” including the names of Dr. Klug, another U. C. L. A. professor and a woman who lived in nearby Brooklyn Park, Minn. Los Angeles officials alerted the police in Brooklyn Park shortly after midnight, and the officers who went to the address found “an adult female who was deceased of an apparent gunshot wound,” said Mark Bruley, deputy police chief of Brooklyn Park. Officials in both cities declined to give the woman’s name or describe her relationship with Mr. Sarkar. People who knew her identified her as Ashley Hasti, a medical student and former girlfriend of Mr. Sarkar’s public records show that for a time, they had both lived at her address in Brooklyn Park, a modest   beige house on a quiet,   street. Ms. Hasti studied Asian languages and literature at the University of Minnesota and later enrolled in medical school there. “She was just ever so interested in everything,” her grandmother Jean Johnson said. “That girl was so smart that you just couldn’t get ahead of her. ” Hennepin County records show that Ms. Hasti and Mr. Sarkar were married in 2011. The current legal status of their marriage was unclear, though neighbors said they did not remember ever seeing Mr. Sarkar around her home in the suburbs north of Minneapolis. Ms. Hasti met Mr. Sarkar about five years ago, after she went to Scripps College in Claremont, Calif. to take   courses, and her family later spent some time with him, Ms. Johnson recalled. She remembered some jarring moments, like Mr. Sarkar saying that his family had a history of violence, and falsely disparaging Ms. Hasti’s academic integrity. But they broke up more than a year ago, she said, and her granddaughter never indicated that she feared him. Early Thursday morning, Ms. Johnson said she got a call from Ms. Hasti’s other grandmother, who broke the news. “She just screamed at me, ‘Ashley’s dead,’ ” Ms. Johnson said. “I just about had a heart attack right there. ” The   at the University of California, Los Angeles, was the latest in a long string of campus shootings, but the fact that professors were specifically targeted heightened what some faculty members said was a growing fear of violence and prompted many to think about experiences they have had that might have angered students. New laws in Texas and other states allowing people to carry concealed weapons on college campuses have heightened concerns about gun violence, though concealed carry is still prohibited on most campuses around the country, including those in California. Two prominent faculty members have left the University of Texas at Austin, citing the change, and a third has said he will try to defy the law and bar guns in his classroom. “You never want to have to think about something like this, and now I’m not sure I can avoid thinking about it,” said Joshua Dienstag, a political science professor who spent two and a half hours on Wednesday barricaded in a room with four others while U. C. L. A. was on lockdown. Mr. Sarkar, 38, who immigrated from India, earned a Ph. D. in mechanical engineering from U. C. L. A. in 2013. On March 10, in a blog post that has since been deleted, Mr. Sarkar called Dr. Klug, 39, “a sick person. ” “I was this guy’s Ph. D. student,” he wrote. “We had personal differences. He cleverly stole all my code and gave it another student. He made me really sick. ” Chief Beck said at a news conference that investigators think the claim was unfounded and that Mr. Sarkar had “some mental issues. ” On Wednesday, Mr. Sarkar walked into the Engineering IV building, entered the   office of Dr. Klug, and opened fire. The professor, married and the father of two small children, was considered a star in computational biomechanics, a field that applies engineering principles to biology and medicine. Dr. Klug was a devoted youth baseball coach. His research dealt with topics as esoteric as the mechanical structures of the protein shells around viruses, and of layers of fatty molecules in cell membranes. The note Mr. Sarkar left in the office talked about a grievance against the other professor on his list, Chief Beck said, adding, “Detectives believe, and I support their belief, that he went there intending to kill two faculty members from U. C. L. A. ” The other professor was   at the time, he said, and it was not clear if Mr. Sarkar tried to find him. Professors had known of Mr. Sarkar’s grudge against some faculty members, he added, but they did not think he posed a threat. Court records in Minnesota indicate that Mr. Sarkar’s only   with the law were minor traffic and parking tickets. He took two semiautomatic pistols with him to U. C. L. A.  —   both legally purchased in Minnesota, officials said  —   along with multiple magazines, but fired just three shots from one weapon. “He could have caused many more fatalities,” Chief Beck said. As students and faculty here tried to resume classes and prepare for finals, some professors said that campus shootings have subtly transformed the educational experience and have made them more cautious. David Myers, a former chairman of the history department who has offered “active shooter” training, said that when he met with students who seem enraged or unstable, he found himself watching their hands, ever more cognizant of the possibility that they might be armed. “I sort of lived in fear of this day coming to my own campus,” Dr. Myers said. “And it did. It did. ” Ideally, a university “is a place of free movement of ideas and people,” he said. “When that is constrained in the way it was yesterday, something is killed off. ” Stephen Aron, who succeeded Mr. Myers as chairman of the history department, said he had become quicker to refer troubled students to counselors rather than trying to discuss their problems. Digital communication makes it harder to tell how students really are, he added, because “it’s harder to parse out tone in an email than   . ” “People are feeling a bit discombobulated today,” he said. “I’m hearing that mostly from my staff. They’re the ones there every day, so in some sense they’re most vulnerable in those situations. It’s not surprising they feel particularly scared. ”