CAIRO  —   Egypt’s   czar thought he was just doing his job when he estimated how much endemic graft had cost his country: About $76 billion, he said, mostly in corrupt land deals. But the estimate, it turned out, was itself a criminal offense. The   official, Hisham Geneina, is to stand trial in Cairo on Tuesday, just over two months after he was unceremoniously fired by President Abdel Fattah   as the head of the Central Auditing Authority. He faces a charge of spreading false news and disturbing the peace that carries a potential   jail sentence. Mr. Geneina, who served as a senior judge for 34 years before taking the   post in 2012, said the prosecution is politically motivated and driven by powerful enemies inside Mr. Sisi’s government. “I was expected not to touch certain corruption cases,” he said in an interview. More broadly, critics of the government say his case exemplifies how, under Mr. Sisi, even senior officials are running afoul of an authoritarian crackdown that seems intent on quelling any criticism of the powerful state security apparatus. In the past month alone, the authorities have indicted the head of Egypt’s journalists union and convicted more than 150 people who protested the transfer of two Red Sea Islands to Saudi Arabia. Even the   Parliament has been whipped into line: In May, the speaker threatened to discipline any politician who publicly criticized Egypt’s efforts to defend its sliding currency. “This is an unprecedented way of dealing with corruption and the rule of law,” said Ashraf el Sherif, a politics lecturer at the American University in Cairo. “The message is that nobody in the state, especially key institutions, can be held accountable. ” The prosecution of Mr. Geneina began in March, days after Mr. Sisi dismissed him by presidential decree. It surprised many Egyptians for its speed and the profile of the defendant. Unlike the Islamists, activists and journalists who have been singled out by Mr. Sisi’s government, Mr. Geneina had long been a member of the establishment. Mr. Geneina’s lawyer, Ali Taha, said he had been misquoted by a newspaper, which reported that the $76 billion loss had been incurred in 2015 instead of across three years. Mr. Sisi convened a committee to examine the figure, which concluded that Mr. Geneina had exaggerated the figures. In an interview, Mr. Geneina declined to discuss the details of the report, saying he had been told not to discuss the case. But he said he believed that he was being pursued because he had angered powerful interests  —   officials who became wealthy under former President Hosni Mubarak, and parts of the state security services under Mr. Sisi. “In every position I have held, I underwent security checks,” he said. “If I was so dangerous why didn’t they come after me 40 years ago?” Since then, Mr. Geneina and his family have been subject to a campaign of defamation on   television channels in an effort to discredit him, ranging from accusations that he belonged to the Muslim Brotherhood to suggestions that his wife supported the militant group Hamas because she is of Palestinian origin. “I have lost faith in a lot of things,” Mr. Geneina said. His wife, sitting beside him, spoke of her shock of him being hustled into a van and hauled off to jail. Mr. Sisi made fighting corruption a central policy plank after he came to power in 2013. Yet since then, his government has introduced a “reconciliation” law that has cleared the way for several   figures to have corruption convictions quashed in return for large cash payments. Hussein Salem, a   businessman living in exile in Spain, recently struck an agreement to pay more than $600 million to the Egyptian government to be allowed to return home. Analysts say that Mr. Geneina’s $76 billion comment hit a nerve because it touched on the power of state institutions that Mr. Sisi has sought to placate, even in the face of accusations of graft and brutality, in order to solidify his own power, and in the name of ensuring the country’s stability. Mr. Geneina has been succeeded at the Central Auditing Authority by Hisham Badawy, who worked previously for Egypt’s state security apparatus. The agency has not announced any major new cases, Mr. Sherif noted. “He’s a regime figure,” he said. “It’s more or less the same old wine. ”