Maria Sharapova, a   Grand Slam champion and one of the world’s   female athletes, was suspended for two years Wednesday when an International Tennis Federation tribunal ruled that she unintentionally committed a doping violation. Sharapova announced in March that she tested positive for meldonium on Jan. 26 at the Australian Open and began serving a provisional suspension. Meldonium, a heart medication that is said to improve blood flow and allow athletes to recover faster, was added to the World   Agency’s prohibited list on Jan. 1 after the agency monitored its use for a year. Sharapova, 29, said she had been taking Mildronate, whose active ingredient is meldonium, since 2006 to help manage a variety of health problems and was not aware that the drug had been banned. After a hearing May 18 and 19, a   tribunal appointed by the I. T. F. ruled that while Sharapova’s doping violation was not intentional, “she does bear sole responsibility for the contravention, and very significant fault, in failing to take any steps to check whether the continued use of this medicine was permissible. ” Sharapova faced a suspension of up to four years if the tribunal decided her doping violation was intentional. Because of her prompt admission of her violation, the I. T. F. said, the suspension will be backdated to begin on Jan. 26, and she will be eligible to return at midnight on Jan. 25, 2018. Sharapova is the   tennis player to have a positive doping test. She said in a statement released on her Facebook page that she would appeal the suspension through the Court of Arbitration for Sport. “I cannot accept an unfairly harsh   suspension,” she said. “The tribunal, whose members were selected by the I. T. F. agreed that I did not do anything intentionally wrong, yet they seek to keep me from playing tennis for two years. ” A   suspension could have been career ending, but if her ban is upheld, Sharapova, who has missed long periods on the tour because of injuries and has seen her ranking fall to No. 26, would be 30 when she returned to a sport in which Serena Williams and Roger Federer remain top players in their  . A lengthy doping suspension could harm Sharapova’s   brand, but she received support Wednesday from Nike, which along with other sponsors had suspended its relationship with her after the positive doping test was revealed in March. “The I. T. F. tribunal has found that Maria did not intentionally break its rules,” the company said in a statement. “Maria has always made her position clear, has apologized for her mistake and is now appealing the length of the ban. Based on the decision of the I. T. F. and their factual findings, we hope to see Maria back on court and will continue to partner with her. ” The Court of Arbitration for Sport has been sympathetic to tennis players in recent appeals. In 2013, the court reduced Viktor Troicki’s   ban for refusing to submit a blood sample to 12 months and cut Marin Cilic’s   ban for unknowingly ingesting a banned stimulant to four months. “We always viewed this as a   process, I. T. F. first, then C. A. S,” John Haggerty, Sharapova’s lawyer, said in an email. Haggerty said he believed the I. T. F. wanted to make an example out of Sharapova because she is a famous athlete and to send a message that the federation was tough on doping. “I believe that at C. A. S. ,” he added, “which is made up of an arbitrator selected by Maria, one selected by the I. T. F. and a neutral arbitrator selected by C. A. S. Maria’s suspension will be reduced and she will return to tennis sooner. ” Sharapova and her representatives have said that her   use of Mildronate was to protect her health, not enhance her performance. Since January, more than 300 athletes, many from Russia and other Eastern European countries, have tested positive for meldonium, which is not approved for sale in the United States or the European Union but is sold over the counter in Russia and some other Eastern European countries. The Russian sports ministry, in particular, has been critical of the way the World   Agency handled banning meldonium, arguing that the drug was not performance enhancing. Last month, the Russian sports ministry said that most of its athletes had been reinstated after WADA issued new guidelines on the length of time meldonium takes to leave the body, and athletes were able to prove their positive tests had resulted from using the drug before it was banned. Such leniency was not available to Sharapova, who used meldonium after Jan. 1. The tribunal’s report on the case said Sharapova admitted taking 500 milligrams of Mildronate before each of her five matches at the Australian Open, where she lost to Williams in the quarterfinals. The report also disclosed that meldonium was found in an    test in Moscow on Feb. 2. The report detailed Sharapova’s history using the drug, which dated to 2006, when she was 18. Mildronate was among 18 medications and supplements recommended by a Moscow doctor, Anatoly Skalny, to help Sharapova manage frequent illnesses by boosting her immune system. None of the medications were on WADA’s prohibited list at the time. Sharapova worked with Skalny through 2012 and, according to the report, he regularly checked the WADA prohibited list to assure the compliance of his recommendations, which at one point grew to 30 substances. But Sharapova, overwhelmed by the number of pills, changed her approach to nutrition in early 2013 and continued to use only three medications: Magnerot, Riboxin and Mildronate, which she believed would protect her heart and manage her magnesium deficiency, the report said. Since 2013, the report said, the only members of Sharapova’s team who knew she was taking meldonium regularly were her father, Yuri, and her agent, Max Eisenbud. Sharapova also did not disclose the use of the Mildronate or meldonium on any doping control forms since 2014, saying that she thought it was necessary only for substances she took daily. “I did not feel it was a responsibility to have to write down every single match drink I was taking, gel, vitamin I was taking, even if I took it once during the last seven days,” she is quoted as saying in the tribunal’s report. “I did not think it was of high importance. ” The report called her failure to disclose her use of meldonium to antidoping authorities, her doctors, her coach, her trainer, her nutritionist or any other member of her team “a very serious breach of her duty to comply with the rules. ” “This was a deliberate decision, not a mistake,” the ruling said. Haggerty said that players were not required to list everything they were taking. “For 10 years Mildronate was not on the prohibited list, so Maria had no reason to hide her use of it,” he said. The report repeatedly rejected Sharapova’s argument that the I. T. F. failed to sufficiently warn her that Mildronate had been added to the banned list. WADA published its prohibited list for 2016 on Sept. 29. A summary of the changes to the list was posted on the I. T. F. website on Dec. 7. The WTA and I. T. F. sent subsequent emails in December that included links to the antidoping program, but, Sharapova argued, they did not mention changes to the prohibited list. The federation also issued a wallet card that lists prohibited substances and gave one to Sharapova’s coach, Sven Groeneveld, in January, the report said. The report said that it was relevant to consider that Sharapova had used meldonium for 10 years before it was prohibited, but “she had a continuing duty to review the Prohibited List each year and from at least 2013 onwards did not take any steps to do so. ” Eisenbud, a top agent for IMG, took the blame for what he called “an administrative error” of not alerting Sharapova to meldonium’s changed status. The tribunal found his reasons for failing to check the banned list even more dubious than Sharapova’s. Eisenbud said he had a routine of checking updates to the WADA prohibited list during his annual family vacation in the Caribbean in November, but the trip was canceled last year because of his separation from his wife. The tribunal asked “why it was necessary to take a file to the Caribbean to read by the pool when one email could have provided the answer. ” The report put the responsibility squarely on Sharapova, saying if she had been more open about her use of meldonium, this situation could have been avoided. The tribunal, while confirming that she did not knowingly commit a doping violation, found “moral fault” in her conduct. “It may be that she genuinely believed that Mildronate had some general beneficial effect on her heath, but the manner in which the medication was taken, its concealment from the antidoping authorities, her failure to disclose it even to her own team and the lack of any medical justification must inevitably lead to the conclusion that she took Mildronate for the purpose of enhancing performance,” the report said. The tribunal conceded, though, that if Sharapova  —   or anyone on her team  —   had known that Mildronate was banned, she would have stopped taking it. The report concludes, “She is the sole author of her own misfortune. ”