The vise appears to be tightening at the   education giant ITT Educational Services. Its profits are collapsing, its stock is below $2, and last Monday the company got bad news from the Education Department in Washington, a main overseer. ITT, which operates 138 campuses in 39 states, said it had received a letter from the government demanding $44 million to cover potential obligations that might arise, such as student refunds. The department cited increased risks at ITT as the reason for the demand. A call for $44 million may not sound like a death knell. But it was just the latest in a series of setbacks at ITT. And if the past is prologue, the company’s woes could have dire consequences for its current and former students. The situation has uncanny echoes of a collapse of a   educational institution about two decades ago. According to its most recent financial statement, ITT provides   programs to 43, 000 students at ITT Technical Institute and Daniel Webster College locations. In April, the Accrediting Council for Independent Colleges and Schools told ITT Technical Institute that its schools had not demonstrated that they met certain standards. ITT said it believed that the schools were in compliance, but acknowledged that if the schools lost the accreditation, they would lose access to government loan programs. As a consequence, the company said in a regulatory filing, “we likely would not be able to continue to operate our business. ” ITT may survive these threats. But if it doesn’t, thousands of customers will be left shouldering debt that they almost surely cannot pay off. How many students are we talking about? Two years ago, ITT had 191, 225 borrowers carrying $4. 6 billion in debt, a report published last fall by the Brookings Institution said. That averages out to about $24, 000 per borrower. That number has undoubtedly increased since then. Students who have taken out loans to attend a school that later fails encounter many problems. Consider what happened at the Wilfred American Educational Corporation, which operated beauty and secretarial schools back to the 1980s. Wilfred ran roughshod over students and profited on the taxpayers’ dime. In its heyday, Wilfred enrolled over 11, 000 students at 58 campuses across the country. It closed in the   after regulators uncovered routine falsification of federal student aid applications. To attend the schools, Wilfred students took out more than 61, 000 loans between 1986 and 1994, court documents show. Decades later, many of these loans are still outstanding. The company received $405 million in federal student aid between 1980 and 1989, documents show, accounting for almost all of its revenue. Former Wilfred students later confirmed in a lawsuit against the Department of Education that the company had obtained some of those federal loans without permission from students or by falsely certifying borrower eligibility. Under these circumstances, students qualify for what’s known as a “false certification discharge,” a loan forgiveness arrangement created by Congress in 1992. In such cases, the secretary of education is supposed to “discharge the borrower’s liability on the loan (including interest and collection fees) by repaying the amount owed on the loan. ” But the Education Department never notified the former Wilfred students that they could be eligible for loan forgiveness, lawyers for the students say. For years, debt collectors hounded borrowers for repayment. Many have had their tax refunds taken away. The department’s failure to alert these students to possible loan forgiveness is the subject of the 2014 lawsuit brought by former Wilfred students. The suit contends that the Education Department violated the Administrative Procedure Act, which governs the activities of federal agencies. The Education Department has fought the lawsuit at every turn. A spokesman did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Nicole Elam, an ITT spokeswoman, said in a statement that the false certification that occurred at Wilfred did not apply to ITT. “It’s not a fair comparison to raise it in any hypothetical involving our organization,” she said. Understandably, the Education Department doesn’t want to burden United States taxpayers by repaying Wilfred students’ loans. But the obligations are beyond onerous for the borrowers. Amounts owed have ballooned, thanks to interest costs and collection fees. And the debts have wrecked borrowers’ credit scores, making it impossible for many to rent an apartment or buy a car. Jane Greengold Stevens, director of litigation at New York Legal Assistance Group in Manhattan, represents the former Wilfred students in the lawsuit. She said that the average student’s loan was $2, 500 when it was taken out, but the average amount now owed has grown to $24, 000. In an interview, Ms. Stevens said she understood the government’s desire not to load forgiven student debts onto taxpayers’ shoulders. But the department, she added, “doesn’t seem to be taking into account the harm done to students who were desperate when they were recruited and who have lost part of their lives to these schools. ” The Education Department failed Wilfred students three ways, the lawsuit said. First, it didn’t take “reasonable steps to determine whether students’ eligibility for federally guaranteed loans to attend Wilfred was falsely certified. ” It erred again by enforcing Wilfred loan obligations without having taken those steps. Finally, the agency did not send notice about possible discharges “as required by statute and regulation. ” Lawyers for the former students began their battle with the Education Department in 2013 by asking it to notify all former Wilfred students that their loans could be forgiven. The department responded by saying it believed it had enough evidence to send notifications only to students who had attended one branch of Wilfred  —   in Philadelphia. But a 1996 documentation of Wilfred violations by a loan analyst at the Education Department, based on findings by its inspector general, concluded that fraud at roughly 50 of its locations was so pervasive that students submitting a valid application for a discharge should be approved. Anna Bernardez, of White Plains, is a plaintiff in the Wilfred case. In an interview, she harked back to 1987 when she attended a school in the Bronx, pursuing a degree in cosmetology. She dropped out after three months, and soon the school closed. “They made me sign papers, but I didn’t realize they were taking out loans in my name,” Ms. Bernardez said. What began as a $7, 000 loan ultimately grew to $22, 000. Repayment demands were unceasing. “It was a nightmare,” she said. “My credit was messed up I just started getting credit little by little now. ” Thirty years later. Last month, lawyers representing these students won a major court victory, allowing the suit against the Education Department to go forward. “The whole point of our lawsuit is that there are more than 50, 000 people out there who have no idea that the discharge application process exists,” Ms. Stevens said. “The Department of Ed is taking advantage of these people’s ignorance in the same way that the schools took advantage of their vulnerability. ” Wilfred dispensed 60, 000 loans. If ITT and other schools fail, hundreds of thousands of borrowers  —   maybe millions  —   could be in for the same treatment. Ugly, no?