The printers buzzed to life in every firehouse in New York City last week, and each spit out an identical bulletin. It bore the worst sort of news the Fire Department must relay to its members, the Code    . A death in the line of duty. “With regret, the department announces the death of Battalion Chief Lawrence T. Stack,” the note read, “as a result of injuries sustained while operating at Manhattan Box   . ” That box number was grimly familiar to all firefighters. It was followed by the time of the call from that box  —   8:47 a. m.  —   and the date: “September 11, 2001. ” The announcement and the “four fives,” as the code is known, had not, until now, been made for Chief Stack for an important reason: His remains had not been found. For his family, this is the end of a frustrating and ultimately fruitless wait of nearly 15 years. Chief Stack, 58, had served almost 33 years. His funeral will be held Friday at SS. Philip and James Church in St. James on Long Island, with the expansive pageantry and huge turnout of firefighters and officers that accompany all departmental ceremonies. Its timing this week, alongside the first funerals of the shooting victims in Orlando, Fla. is accidental, but weighted, bringing an added poignancy. As the country mourns the latest victims of a terrorist attack on its soil, a funeral in New York lays to rest another. Chief Stack’s family came to learn where and how he perished that day. But they put off the funeral, hoping that some trace of him would be identified from what was recovered at ground zero. “Weeks turned into months,” said Lt. Michael Stack, 46, one of Chief Stack’s two sons, both firefighters. “Months turned into years. Two years turned into five, turned into 10. Now it’s 15. ” The Catholic funeral Mass requires the presence of remains of the deceased. This requirement was satisfied, unknowingly, by Chief Stack, in an act of generosity 18 months before his death. “Mom came home and said: ‘There’s a little boy in East Islip and he has cancer. I’m going to donate blood. He needs it,’” Lieutenant Stack recalled. Chief Stack joined his wife, Theresa. He added his name to the bone marrow registry as a possible donor on March 6, 2000, and, in doing so, gave a blood sample for type matching. Chief Stack’s marrow was not a match for an immediate transplant, and the blood sample was put into cold storage. On the morning of Sept. 11, 2001, Chief Stack was in his office in Brooklyn near the waterfront, filling out a report on a recent fatal fire that brought three Code     transmissions. That fire, in an Astoria warehouse on June 17, 2001, became known for the day it happened: the Father’s Day fire. Word arrived at the office immediately after the first plane hit the north tower of the World Trade Center. Chief Stack and others hurried to the roof with binoculars. They saw the second plane strike the south tower. “He lowered his binoculars and said, ‘Guys, I think they’re going to need us,’” Lieutenant Stack said, recalling what he has been told of that day. Chief Stack and others hurried to the scene. He wound up in the lobby of the Marriott World Trade Center, which was being evacuated. Wreckage collapsed into the lobby, nearly striking Chief Stack and leaving him momentarily trapped, his coat stuck. He wiggled free and left the coat behind. It would be recovered three months later. “A lieutenant came up to him and said, ‘Can you help me? I was with someone, and I can’t find him,’” Lieutenant Stack said. “They go back to this collapsed mess and start calling his name out. ” They heard a faint voice in the rubble  —   the missing man, a firefighter. The lieutenant grabbed his ankles, and Chief Stack grabbed the lieutenant’s, and they pulled the firefighter out. “My dad is like, ‘It’s time to leave, we’ve got to get out of here,’” Lieutenant Stack said. They stepped outside. “You can see bodies jumping, falling. My dad said, ‘There’s the command post. Go there. ’” Those firefighters, who lived to tell this to Lieutenant Stack, did so. Chief Stack stopped. He had come across a fallen businessman from Iowa, injured. The firefighters looked back as the north tower fell. “The last thing they remember seeing is my dad on one knee with this man,” Lieutenant Stack said. “Staying with him. ” Lieutenant Stack hurried to the World Trade Center site that day. “I came up, and I go, ‘Oh my God,’” he said. “It was just so vast. So big. ” He knew from the accounts of others that his father was dead, and he returned to the pit, day after day. “Dig and look, search, hope,” he said. “That’s what I had in mind. I’m going to find him. ” Nothing. “I always wanted that department phone call,” saying remains had been found, he said. The family visited a memorial site in Hauppauge, N. Y. on his birthday and sang to him. But it wasn’t like visiting a grave. Finally, last year, Mrs. Stack said enough. “She drew a line in the sand where she said, ‘We’re not doing it past 15 years,’” Lieutenant Stack said. The Office of Chief Medical Examiner has identified 65 percent of remains recovered from the World Trade Center. The rest is damaged enough that current identification technology is of no use, and remains in storage. The New York Blood Center examined its list of donors after Sept. 11, and discovered that 143 firefighters who died that day had signed up to be marrow donors, most of them while still in training as rookies. The center notified the families, and set aside their blood samples over the years, it has given the small vials of blood to some relatives. Some put the vials in their freezers at home. Some bury them at funerals, as with Firefighter Michael Paul Ragusa in 2003. Mrs. Stack and her sons visited the blood center last year. The center located Chief Stack’s blood in a storage facility in Minnesota. The vial will be buried on Friday at Calverton National Cemetery in recognition of Chief Stack’s service in the United States Navy. “We will have someplace to go,” Mrs. Stack, 71, said on Thursday. The family chose June 17 because it would have been the Stacks’ 49th wedding anniversary. Coincidentally, it is the 15th anniversary of the Father’s Day fire, the event front and center on Chief Stack’s mind before the first plane hit. It is the first funeral for a firefighter killed that day in 10 years. “My mother, she just wanted a nice, small Catholic Mass,” Lieutenant Stack said. He and his brother, Brian, took this idea to Commissioner Daniel A. Nigro in May. “He said, ‘We’re doing it the right way,’” Lieutenant Stack said. “‘We’re going to have a funeral. ’” There would be full departmental honors. “Brian and I looked at each other like, ‘Mom’s not going to like this,’” Lieutenant Stack said. “But in the weeks since, it feels right. ” He noted the timing of the Orlando massacre. “Who knew the war was going to come to us on Sept. 11?” he said. “No one knew the war was coming. And then we wake up June 12 and find out the war is still here. ”