Nicholas Clinch, an audacious and intrepid mountaineer who led   expeditions of skyscraping peaks in the Himalayas and in Antarctica, died on June 15 in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 85. The cause was cancer, a nephew, Richard Kylberg, said. An unusual figure in the world of elite mountaineering, Mr. Clinch was a tall, somewhat gangly man whose slight build was not in the hardy athletic mold of a   climber. He was, in addition, asthmatic. But he found his niche in the field by applying his intelligence, technical skill, practical knowledge and perseverance. In October 1955, Mr. Clinch, then in his   was relaxing after a spaghetti dinner with some fellow climbers in a Northern California living room when he issued an almost casual challenge. “Who wants to climb Hidden Peak in 1958?” he asked. The reference was to the   mountain on earth, located in the Karakoram range in northeast Pakistan. Known also as Gasherbrum I, at about 26, 500 feet it is one of the 14 mountains higher than 8, 000 meters and was, at the time, the   unclimbed peak in the world. (Dhaulagiri, in Nepal, at nearly 26, 800 feet, was not climbed until 1960.) His companions laughed  —   justifiably, Mr. Clinch would later write  —   but he assembled a small team of climbers (including two men who were there for the first inquiry) secured permission for the trek from the Pakistani government, shipped 7, 000 pounds of food and equipment halfway around the world, and met his original deadline. In the spring of 1958, Mr. Clinch led a support army of more than 100 people from the town of Skardu to Hidden Peak, 150 miles away, and in early July two members of the climbing party, Pete Schoening and Andy Kauffman, achieved the summit. An assault on the peak from a final temporary camp by a second group of climbers, including Mr. Clinch, was canceled because of threatening weather. That others got the glory for the first ascent was no bother to Mr. Clinch, a lawyer by profession who scaled mountains on several continents and was known among mountaineers as a consummate team player and a leader and organizer of infinite patience, diligence and humor. “He would say to me, ‘The mountains don’t care who you are,’ ” Mr. Kylberg, his nephew, said, meaning that great athletes could founder in the wild at high altitudes as easily as anyone else. “He saw the mountains as a great human equalizer. ” Mr. Clinch’s physical achievements in enduring what he described, in The Saturday Evening Post in 1961, as “the special agonies of   climbing, when the combination of blazing sun and snow makes it feel as if your head were in an oven and your feet in a freezer while you carry heavy loads,” were nonetheless impressive. In 1960, he had organized another first ascent in the Karakoram, leading a team of American and Pakistani mountaineers to the top of Masherbrum  —   sometimes known as Doomsday Mountain  —   at upward of 25, 600 feet. “Nick had the capacity to fantasize and to translate fantasy into reality,” Tom Hornbein, who was part of the Masherbrum team, said in a telephone interview. Asked how a less than robust physical specimen could conquer such mammoth peaks, Mr. Hornbein (who in 1963, with another climber, forged a new route up Mount Everest) said that Mr. Clinch was a highly proficient climber technically, and that his ability to apply his climbing experience to the problems in front of him was peerless. “Nick,” he added, “was not lacking in drive. ” Nicholas Bayard Clinch III was born in Evanston, Ill. on Nov. 9, 1930, and grew up in Dallas and in Roswell, N. M. where he attended the New Mexico Military Institute. His father was a military flyer who became a colonel in the Air Force. Nicholas III graduated from Stanford and went on to earn a law degree there. Like his father, he served in the Air Force. In the 1970s, he was a lawyer for the Lincoln Savings and Loan Association, the financial institution in Irvine, Calif. that went bankrupt in 1989 during a scandal that sent Charles H. Keating Jr. the chief executive of its parent corporation, to prison for fraud. Mr. Clinch was a longtime member of the American Alpine Club and its president from 1968 to 1970. He was the executive director of the Sierra Club Foundation from 1975 to 1981, and he worked as an environmental consultant for the Fluor Corporation, a   engineering and construction firm. His attraction to the mountains began when he was a teenager. He spent summers at an adventure camp in Estes Park, Colo. and met many friends, including Mr. Hornbein, who would become climbing colleagues. Mr. Clinch married Elizabeth Wallace Campbell, known as Betsy, in 1964. Together they wrote “Through a Land of Extremes: The Littledales of Central Asia” (2011) about the British explorers and adventurers St. George Littledale and his wife, Teresa. Mr. Clinch was also the author of “A Walk in the Sky” (1982) an account of the Hidden Peak expedition. Mr. Clinch is survived by his wife a sister, Lee Everding and two daughters, Alison Clinch and Lee Bridges. One more of Mr. Clinch’s remarkable climbing ventures, perhaps the most remarkable: In December 1966, with the sponsorship of the American Alpine Club and the National Geographic Society, he led a team of American climbers in the first ascent of Mount Vinson, at just over 16, 000 feet the highest peak in Antarctica. In temperatures well below zero (and in   sunlight) all 10 climbers in the group reached the summit. In 2006, according to the United States Geological Survey, a nearly   mountaintop, 1. 4 miles southeast of Mount Vinson, was named in his honor: Clinch Peak.