FRANKFURT  —   A masked assailant apparently armed with a rifle attacked a multiplex movie theater in the German city of Viernheim on Thursday and took hostages before he was killed by elite police units that stormed the building, officials and the news media reported. There was no indication the attack was linked to a terrorist plot, officials said, despite initial fears that the gunman may have been tied to Islamist extremists who have carried out other assaults that have traumatized Europe. Officials also disputed early reports that up to 25 people had been hurt in the multiplex mayhem. Peter Beuth, the interior minister for the state of Hesse, said he had no information that anyone had been harmed. Some German news organizations reported that people had been injured by police   and that the assailant had carried a weapon loaded with blank cartridges. Mr. Beuth said the assailant had been armed with a   weapon, but it was not clear whether it was capable of firing live ammunition. “Because the attacker had taken hostages, the special forces moved in on him and he was killed,” Mr. Beuth told the Hesse state legislature. The assailant’s identity and motive were not clear. Mr. Beuth said the man appeared confused, suggesting he may have been mentally ill. The multiplex was showing four mainstream American films: “The Jungle Book,” “Alice Through the Looking Glass,” “Angry Birds” and “Central Intelligence. ” It was not clear which theater the assailant entered. Bernd Hochstädter, a spokesman for the police command in Southern Hessen, told the   private news channel that a special police team had carried out the action. He said the team had approached the gunman, supported by local police officers. “A person with a gun entered the cinema,” Mr. Hochstädter said. The police were alerted and immediately surrounded the center. A spokesman for the regional police authority in the Hesse city of Darmstadt said that investigators did not see any links between the assailant and Islam. The spokesman, who did not provide his name in accordance with German security protocols, said the total number of hostages who had been held was unclear. He said the assailant had fired four shots before he was killed. Viernheim is a city of about 33, 000 people near Mannheim, which is known for its chemicals industry. The swift response reflected how Germany remains on edge with fears heightened over terrorist attacks in Europe. The country has not suffered attacks on the same scale as France or Belgium, but the police have foiled several plots and the country has been dreading that it, too, could become a target.