Bill Cunningham worked as discreetly as he could. “My whole thing is to be invisible,” he wrote in 2002. “You get more natural pictures that way, too. ” But while he looked for subjects, his subjects also looked for him. After his death on Saturday at age 87, we asked New York Times readers to share their sightings  —   and personal photos  —   of Mr. Cunningham on the streets of New York City and beyond. The responses have been edited for clarity and length. Tara Shannon in Pasadena, Calif.  For a model on the runway, he was always on the right side of the runway. For a model doing   he was on Seventh Avenue after the shows to catch us girls in groups, and the society women. We all knew that he liked it best if you didn’t look at him and the camera, and we would all give him his shot. And then we would always break down and call out to him, “Hi, Bill!” and he would answer back, “Hi, kids. ” My heart has held him from the very first time we smiled at each other through the lens of a camera. He was our muse as much as we were his. Beth Williams in Palo Alto, Calif. After I saw the movie about him, I wrote him a letter imploring him to wear a helmet, on the grounds that he was a national treasure who could not be replaced. A few months passed, and I received a postcard from him, dated Jan. 10, 2012. “Dear Dr. Williams. ..Thank you for your thoughtful note 30 Oct and offer of a bike helmet, I have two and realize its safety importance. Thank you for reminding me of their safety. Sorry to be so late in writing . .. now I [have] time to thank you. Best wishes for the New Year, Bill Cunningham. ” The postcard was from the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in Boston, and I imagined him thinking of me while on vacation there! Obviously, I framed his card. I was very moved by his taking the time to respond to my letter. Rados Protic in Barcelona, Spain Bill Cunningham helped me get my green card. Over the years, Bill had taken a lot of pictures of me  —   some were published in The New York Times, some were not. When I was working as an executive at the Estée Lauder Companies in the ‘90s and in the process of getting my green card, under the category, ‘person with exceptional ability,’ my lawyer suggested I get as many recommendation letters from famous and influential people as possible. I contacted Bill, who had just taken a picture of me in a winter coat with a lavish fur collar. He graciously agreed to send me a letter. Some time later I received the photo with a handwritten, wonderful note on the back of the picture. My lawyer submitted it along with letters from other notable figures. A couple of months later I received my green card. I still can hear Bill’s voice: “Child, what a marvelous coat. ” Judith Rice in New York  I was producing a men’s wear show for Donna Karan around 1992. It was a   presentation, and we needed props so that the models could be engaged while standing. My dear friends recently had a baby, and I asked Donna if she wanted a baby for the show. Her enthusiastic response was, “Yes! Can you get one?” Well, we put baby Kate into a model’s arms, and it was instant love. Of course, Bill got the shot and sent me two copies, one for Kate signed, “To little Kate, who for a few minutes made Seventh Avenue a big, happy family. ” Twenty years later, I reintroduced Kate to Bill at a runway show she was then majoring in photography. He was awestruck that she was actually studying photography. “Oh, you’re a real professional. I’m just a guy who figured out how to do it along the way. ” They then spoke quietly alone, words I’ll never know, but Kate will have them forever, as we will forever have Bill in our hearts. Jeff Nash in Edmonton, Alberta My only encounter with Bill Cunningham capturing street fashion was unique because at the time I had no idea who he was. Something drew my eye to him, and I remember thinking to myself it must be a cool life to be in your 80s and bike around New York photographing the city. I immediately thought this must be a really fulfilling way to spend your retirement! I took some photos of him because he just stood out so much to me. I remember him being shy, and he would reposition himself when he spotted me trying to take a photo of him. He probably thought I was taking photos of “The Bill Cunningham,” but in reality I was just doing what he was famous for: capturing candid photos of interesting people. It wasn’t until a friend saw my photos on Instagram and educated me as to who this man was. After that, I read up on his legacy and watched the documentary about his life and learned what an interesting man he was. Kevin Chan in New York He’s one of my inspirations as a photographer. Funny story of when I met him in October 2013 at the Central Park fall pumpkin festival. A group of tourists asked him if he would take a picture of them, not knowing who he was, but just a guy with a camera who looked like he knew how to take a photo. I asked the tourists if they knew who took their photo  —   one of the most legendary photographers in the world. I’m sure they’ll be cherishing that photo now. Regan Stephens in New York  Last summer I took my     daughter to the Ralph Lauren children’s show at Central Park Zoo. I snapped a quick photo while he was working hard to capture all the impeccably dressed tots and their parents. I promised her some candy if she stayed still, and you can see from the look on her face she didn’t realize she was in the presence of one of the greats. Matthew Allen in New York  I saw him while I was photographing the 2015 Armory art show as an avid hobbyist. His ability to place himself perfectly, at the right moment, was instructive, to say the least. At one point, he and I momentarily crossed photographic paths in front of a mirror. He nodded in my direction when we brought our cameras down, and that nod told me that after all those years, he still had fun taking pictures. Kashish Das Shrestha in New York  As a documentary photographer from Nepal working New York Fashion Week, I always thought it was a thrill to be taking photos and to turn and realize that I was briefly sharing this city, and its streets and runways, with an icon like Bill Cunningham, who it seemed would have preferred not to be noticed at all. Karen Stevenson in Berkeley, Calif. I’d followed Bill Cunningham’s photo essays for years, and was excited to see him snapping photos at the Metropolitan Opera’s 2015 New Year’s Eve gala. I had on a new dress, and secretly hoped he’d think I looked as elegant as I thought I did and take my picture. Eventually he did look in my direction, checked out my outfit and turned away. Snubbed by Bill Cunningham! My bruised pride notwithstanding, I remained a devoted fan. A. B. Rashish in Brooklyn When I was 19, I had a weekend job at a very chic clothing store in SoHo. This was in the 1980s. I would wear the store’s clothes when I worked there. One Saturday, I took a break and was walking over to Donald Sacks for coffee. I spotted Bill Cunningham, crouched low at the corner as I made my way down the block in an olive green gabardine suit with a   fur collar. I tried to play it cool, but I couldn’t help cracking a smile as he snapped my picture. When he stopped shooting, he smiled right back. Lynnette Blanche in New York I once spotted him in Central Park. Despite seeing him zip around the city all the time, I never bothered him. This time, I had to get a picture. I begged him for a selfie. He was quick to decline and let me know he hated them! But, being the polite man that he was, he graciously allowed me to take his picture. He gave me one shot. I wish it was better, but I’m so glad I have it. He had the best smile.