While relatives and supporters of Adnan Syed celebrated a Maryland judge’s decision to grant him a new trial in the 1999 murder of his former girlfriend Hae Min Lee, members of Ms. Lee’s family on Friday expressed disappointment in the decision and said they remained convinced of his guilt. “We do not speak as often or as loudly as those who support Adnan Syed, but we care just as much about this case,” the family said in a statement released by the office of the Maryland attorney general. “We continue to grieve. We continue to believe justice was done when Mr. Syed was convicted of killing Hae. ” “While we continue to put our faith in the courts and hope the decision will be reversed, we are very disappointed by the judge’s decision,” the statement continued. The family expressed gratitude to prosecutors “for standing by the true victims and for giving Hae Min Lee a voice. ” Mr. Syed, whose case was chronicled in the first season of the hit podcast “Serial,” was granted a retrial on Thursday by Judge Martin P. Welch of the Baltimore City Circuit Court. It was a major victory for an inmate who has maintained his innocence for almost two decades. He has served 16 years of a life sentence after being convicted in 2000 of   murder and kidnapping. On Friday, Mr. Syed’s lawyer, C. Justin Brown, said on Twitter that his client had been “informed of the decision. ” At a news conference on Thursday, Mr. Brown said of the possibility that Mr. Syed might eventually be freed: “I’m feeling pretty confident right now. This was the biggest hurdle. It’s really hard to get a new trial. ” Charles P. Ewing, a law professor at the University at Buffalo who was interviewed in the podcast, said in an email, “The state now has the burden of proving beyond a reasonable doubt that he is guilty, and that is much more difficult after   years. ” He added, “Some of the evidence is no longer available, witnesses will be unavailable, evidence is stale and people’s memories are not the same after that period of time. ” Mr. Brown has said that he believed the retrial would not have been granted if “Serial” had not turned Mr. Syed’s case into a pop culture touchstone in 2014. The podcast, which examined whether Mr. Syed had received a fair trial, was downloaded more than 100 million times and won a Peabody Award. The judge’s decision came after three days of postconviction hearings in February. Lawyers for Mr. Syed presented new evidence, including testimony from a new alibi witness. They also argued that his original defense counsel, Maria Cristina Gutierrez, had been grossly negligent when she decided not to question a state’s expert about the reliability of cellphone tower data prosecutors had submitted as evidence. Ms. Gutierrez died in 2004. Mr. Syed’s brother, Yusuf, 26, said on Thursday, “We really felt 100 percent that the judge would rule in our favor. ” Rabia Chaudry, a family friend of Mr. Syed’s who introduced Sarah Koenig, the host of “Serial,” to the case, thanked the judge and witnesses, writing on Twitter: “WE WON. WE WON. WE WON. WE WON. ” With Friday’s statement, Ms. Lee’s family continued to push back at the attention and support Mr. Syed has drawn. In February, her relatives expressed their anguish over his request for a new trial. A family statement released by the office of the Maryland attorney general then said it had been painful to see the case resurrected and watch a man convicted of killing their daughter attract public support. “It remains hard to see so many run to defend someone who committed a horrible crime, who destroyed our family, who refuses to accept responsibility, when so few are willing to speak up for Hae,” the family said at the time. Ms. Lee was last seen on Jan. 13, 1999, and her body was discovered a few weeks later in a shallow grave in a West Baltimore park by a   according to The Baltimore Sun. Her mother, Youn Wha Kim, took the stand at Mr. Syed’s sentencing hearing in 2000 and, through an interpreter, told the court that she could not bring herself to forgive him for her daughter’s death, The Baltimore Sun reported. “When I die, my daughter will die with me,” she told the court. “As long as I live, my daughter is buried in my heart. ”