After three weeks of private preparations, Senator Bernie Sanders is expected to endorse Hillary Clinton on Tuesday at a campaign event in New Hampshire, according to three Democrats who have been involved in the planning. The Clinton campaign on Thursday announced the New Hampshire trip but did not provide details, including any mention of Mr. Sanders. Mr. Sanders, in an interview Thursday with Bloomberg View’s Al Hunt, came as close to endorsing Mrs. Clinton as he ever has, saying: “We have got to do everything that we can to defeat Donald Trump and elect Hillary Clinton. I don’t honestly know how we would survive four years of a Donald Trump as president. ” The three Democrats, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to reveal confidential conversations, said that the endorsement was partly the result of daily talks between Mrs. Clinton’s campaign manager, Robby Mook, and the Sanders campaign manager, Jeff Weaver, about bringing together the two rivals and advancing the policy priorities of Mr. Sanders. The discussions included a dinner between Mr. Mook and Mr. Weaver in Burlington, Vt. where Mr. Sanders has his campaign headquarters. One possible obstacle to party unity  —   a fight between Sanders and Clinton allies over a congressional vote on the   Partnership trade deal  —   is not seen as a deal breaker to the eventual endorsement, the Democrats said. Mr. Sanders wants language added to the party’s policy platform opposing any vote on the deal, despite it being a high priority of the Obama administration. Mr. Sanders has been a staunch opponent of the trade pact, and Mrs. Clinton, who once called it “the gold standard in trade agreements,” has come out against it as well. But her allies on the   committee, in line with the wishes of administration officials, have blocked an effort by Sanders allies to insert language opposing it. The Sanders camp will try again at a platform committee meeting in Orlando, Fla. on Friday and Saturday. Mr. Sanders’s endorsement is also expected to ensure that he has a prominent speaking slot at the Democratic convention late this month, the three Democrats said. They added that it was not clear yet when Mr. Sanders would speak or whether the convention would include a full   vote on Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Sanders as candidates for the party’s nomination. Mrs. Clinton has already begun moving toward Mr. Sanders on other issues. On Wednesday she proposed eliminating tuition at   public college and universities for families with annual incomes up to $125, 000 Mr. Sanders, who had supported making public colleges free for all, praised her plan. The Democrats also said that the Sanders campaign was eager to see Mrs. Clinton take another step toward him on the issue of health care, perhaps by making a new commitment to press Congress to add a “public option” to the Affordable Care Act. Mrs. Clinton has long supported the public option, but she also criticized Mr. Sanders during their nomination fight for wanting to reopen congressional debate over   health care debate and replace the Affordable Care Act with   health insurance. The refusal by Mr. Sanders to endorse Mrs. Clinton  —   or even to suspend his campaign after she clinched the nomination on June 7  —   has increasingly turned the senator into an    in the presidential race. President Obama endorsed Mrs. Clinton during a joint event in North Carolina on Tuesday, and she is set to campaign with Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. in Pennsylvania on Friday. She also campaigned in another swing state, Ohio, with Senator Elizabeth Warren, who shares many progressive policy goals with Mr. Sanders  —   as well as many of his admirers. Senator Warren’s support for Mrs. Clinton, in particular, threatened to marginalize Mr. Sanders among liberals and provide Mrs. Warren with the highly visible role of progressive champion during the fall election. While some allies of Mr. Sanders worry that his endorsement will be     he still has some sway over the 12 million Americans who voted for him in the nominating contest. Mrs. Clinton is eager for party unity, especially since a sizable minority of Sanders supporters is resisting her. With some of them planning to hold events and demonstrations outside the Democratic convention in Philadelphia, there is obvious value to Mrs. Clinton in making peace with Mr. Sanders and having him in her camp. Asked if anything had changed to bring around Mr. Sanders around, the three Democrats said that he wanted to see progress on his policy goals like free public college, but that he was also going through a natural grieving period for his candidacy after a yearlong,   race.