WIMBLEDON, England  —   A   drought can surely not generate the same sort of anxiety as a   drought. But Andy Murray’s second Wimbledon victory  —       (3)   (2) over Milos Raonic on Sunday  —   evinced great emotion just the same as Murray sat in his chair on Centre Court sobbing into his towel with the customary pomp and circumstance of the awards ceremony getting underway all around him. Murray, now 29, is no Downton Abbey Briton, raised to handle the vagaries of the game of life with a stiff upper lip in the public eye. He is a rawboned, sometimes rumpled Scotsman with gravel in his voice. He is from a modest background and a childhood colored by the tragic Dunblane school shootings, and he has always worn his ambitions and perfectionist streak on his short sleeves, shouting, cursing and hungering for more from himself at a tournament better accustomed to subtler local heroes (see Tim Henman). But Murray’s deep and undisguised internal drive has been as important to his success as his foot speed and phenomenal   talent. Seeded No. 2 this year, he already was the most successful British men’s tennis player since Fred Perry. He is now the first British man since Perry to win Wimbledon more than once. Perry, whose statue is on the grounds here at the All England Club, won three straight singles titles from 1934 to 1936. Murray won his first in 2013 but was also reduced to tears of a different provenance during the   ceremony after losing the final to Roger Federer in 2012. “I’ve had some great moments here and also some tough losses,” Murray said Sunday, holding the trophy close. “And obviously the wins feel extra special because of the tough losses. ” The tough losses have not come only at Wimbledon. Murray has had the rotten timing to come of age in one of the most   eras at the top in men’s tennis history. For all his achievement, he has yet to reach No. 1, and his record in Grand Slam finals coming into Sunday was an unprecedented   with all of those finals being played against either Novak Djokovic or Federer. Djokovic, the world’s dominant player, beat Murray in the first two major finals of the season, at the Australian Open and the French Open. Djokovic had won four straight Grand Slam tournaments and was a favorite to defend his title here as well until he was upset in the third round by the American Sam Querrey. For Murray, that meant a   final against Raonic, who upset Federer in a   semifinal to become the first Canadian man to reach a Grand Slam singles final. It also meant that for the first time in his career, Murray was a clear favorite to win a major title. He did not crack, making just 12 unforced errors over the three sets, limiting Raonic to just eight aces with his   returning and routinely producing decisive passing shot combinations  —   particularly off the backhand wing  —   as Raonic rightly tried to force the issue, knowing he had little chance of winning from the baseline. Murray also took surprisingly quick command of the two tiebreakers, normally Raonic’s domain. “I think it’s phenomenal for him, to back up his win from three years ago,” said Raonic, the No. 6 seed. “He’s been in many finals since then that he wasn’t able to make the most of. So for him it’s a big step forward. The next move is up to him. He’s got to go for it. There’s many other guys who will be trying to go for it as well. I know I will. ” Since Wimbledon in 2013, Murray has gone through back surgery and two different coaches before reuniting with his mentor Ivan Lendl last month. Murray was married to his longtime girlfriend, Kim Sears, last year, and she gave birth to their daughter, Sophia, in February. Murray’s life changes were clearly on his mind in the moments after victory. “I’m playing for something a bit different now,” he said of Sophia in a postmatch interview with ESPN. “Hopefully she’ll be proud of this one day. ” But he also clearly viewed this as a more personal achievement than his 2013 victory. “I’m not suggesting this was only for me,” he said Sunday after showing off his trophy from the Centre Court balcony to thousands of fans gathered below. “I know it’s something bigger than that. But the last time it was such a big thing for a British man to win Wimbledon. It had been so long. I was so relieved that I’d done that. ” This time, he intends to truly savor the moment. “I’m going to make sure I enjoy this one more than the others,” he said. There may not be much time, however, with the Davis Cup still a possibility next week followed by the Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro and the United States Open in August. It is a grueling, global game, and Raonic is determined to keep climbing. Born in the former Yugoslavia in what is now Montenegro, Raonic immigrated to Canada with his family in 1994 and has long had his sights on the sort of success he achieved here. To maximize his chances at Wimbledon this year, he even hired John McEnroe, the   Wimbledon champion, to offer   coaching advice. But Murray, more experienced and very adept at absorbing power, was too much to handle in the end. He has now beaten Raonic in their last six matches, four of which have come this season. “With a server like Milos, you can’t let up for one second,” Lendl said. “Just imagine if Milos breaks early in the third and wins the tiebreak in the fourth. We’re still out there. There was just one break of serve the entire match. The focus Andy had today was fantastic. ” Murray now has three Grand Slam singles titles, still quite a contrast with the other members of the   Big Four. Federer has a career men’s record of 17. Rafael Nadal has won 14, Djokovic 12. Murray, at 29, is unlikely to catch them, but he can certainly close the gap, and it will be intriguing to see what he can achieve going forward with Lendl back in his corner. “Everyone’s time comes at different stages,” he said. “Some come in their early 20s, some  . Hopefully mine is still to come. ” Murray has now won both tournaments he has played since Lendl, the former world No. 1, rejoined him. Murray also beat Raonic to win at the Queen’s Club last month. The last time they teamed up, Murray won the gold medal at the 2012 Olympics, which was staged at the All England Club, along with the 2012 United States Open and that first Wimbledon title. “He’s just lucky,” Murray said in his postmatch remarks of Lendl as the crowd laughed along. Murray got more laughs when he came to the rescue of the departing British prime minister, David Cameron, who was sitting in the Royal Box on Sunday near the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge and who received a mixture of boos and cheers. “I think playing a Wimbledon final is tough, but I certainly wouldn’t like to be the prime minister,” Murray said. “It’s an impossible job. ” Getting the ball past the great wall of Murray seemed well nigh impossible, too, on Sunday, but for all the good cheer in victory, this was hardly a lighthearted afternoon in general on Centre Court. Murray had made that clear only a few moments before as he sat in his chair with his face buried in his towel and then buried in his hands. Three years is a long time to wait for a player with his kind of talent, his kind of desire.