The latest New York   News Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted July 8 to 12 with 1, 600 adults throughout the United States. Of those, 1, 358 said they were registered to vote. SSRS of Media, Pa. conducted sampling, interviewing and tabulation for the survey. Interviews were in English or Spanish. The sample of landline telephone exchanges called was randomly selected by a computer from a complete list of more than 82, 000 active residential exchanges across the country, maintained by MSG of Horsham, Pa. The exchanges were chosen so as to ensure that each region of the country was represented in its proper proportion. Within each exchange, random digits were added to form a complete telephone number, thus permitting access to listed and unlisted numbers alike. Within each landline household, one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the survey. Cellphone numbers were generated by a similar random process. The two samples were then combined and adjusted to assure the proper ratio of     and   users. Interviewers made multiple attempts to reach every phone number in the survey, calling back unanswered numbers on different days at different times of both day and night. The combined results have been weighted to adjust for variation in the sample relating to geographic region, sex, race, Hispanic origin, marital status, age, education and (for landline households) the number of adults and number of phone lines. In addition, the sample was adjusted to reflect the percentage of the population residing in mostly Democratic counties, mostly Republican counties, and counties more closely balanced politically. In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, overall results based on such samples will differ by no more than 3 percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking to interview all American adults. This margin includes the effects of weighting procedures, which enlarge sampling error slightly. For smaller subgroups, the margin of sampling error is larger. For example, it is plus or minus 9 points for the 171 black respondents, 6 points for the 393 Republican registered voters and 5 points for the 441 Democratic registered voters. Shifts in results between polls over time also have a larger sampling error. In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. Variation in the wording, order and translation of questions, for instance, may lead to somewhat different results. Michael R. Kagay of Princeton, N. J. assisted The Times in its polling analysis. Complete questions and results are available at nytimes. .