TROON, Scotland  —   It was in. It was in off the putter, it was in 10 feet from the hole, it was in 5 feet from the hole, it was in as it approached the lip. It was in. Phil Mickelson had never been more sure of anything. He had prowled this putt, stalked this putt, talked to his caddie about this putt and, just before he settled over it, imagined this putt that would track perfectly toward the cup and give him a place in golf history as the first player to shoot a 62 during a major tournament. It was in. Mickelson watched his   on the 18th hole at Royal Troon on Thursday roll toward the hole. He felt the adrenaline surge through his body. He felt joy and pride and bliss. He felt the glow of sporting immortality wash over him. It was in. Except then it wasn’t. “I want to cry,” Mickelson said afterward. Technically, what happened is called a  . Mickelson’s putt skimmed off the edge of the cup and spun around it like a car going into a Scottish roundabout. That label, though, undersells what took place here in the cool breeze of early evening. Mickelson’s putt was not going too fast, as many   are, powering around the circumference of the hole. His read was not off track. Mickelson’s line was straight, his speed was true. Yet somehow, some way, the ball stayed up. “I don’t know how that putt didn’t go in,” said Ernie Els, who was playing in Mickelson’s group. No one did. But instead of becoming the first player to shoot a 62 in a major, Mickelson  —   after cradling his head in his hands and staring in disbelief for what felt like hours  —   tapped in from the lip and settled for recording the 28th score of 63 in a major tournament, good enough for a   lead after the opening round of the British Open. Patrick Reed and Martin Kaymer are tied for second after they each posted a    66. Eight players, including one younger American (Justin Thomas, 23) and one older American (Steve Stricker, 49) are at 67. Ten players, including one British favorite (England’s Justin Rose) and one Spanish star who has never won a major (Sergio García, 0 for 71) are at 68. Rory McIlroy, the   major champion from Northern Ireland, is among a group that shot 69. Many of the players took advantage of a    —   some   locals might even call it unreasonably lovely  —   day on the west coast of Scotland, particularly on Troon’s more forgiving front nine. Colin Montgomerie, the Scot who is an honorary member of Troon and hit the first shot of the tournament at 6:35 a. m. on Thursday, said the conditions were bizarrely placid and rated them as no harder than a 3 out of 10. Friday is expected to bring more traditional British Open weather: soaking rain and blistering wind. But for one day, this Open felt more like California than Carnoustie. Players worked the ball left and right, and were aggressive around the greens. The deep pot bunkers remained the biggest obstacles  —   and they claimed their share of victims, including Montgomerie, who needed two shots to extricate himself from one on the first hole  —   yet there was little carnage. Thomas and Reed were emblematic of those who had success early in the day, opening strong  —   both shot 31 on the front nine, and Thomas had birdies on his first four holes  —   before navigating the back nine cautiously to record a good score. Neither has much experience near the top of the leaderboard in a major tournament, but Thomas can certainly ask his housemates about dealing with the pressure. He is sharing a place this week with Jordan Spieth, Zach Johnson (two major titles apiece) and Jason Dufner (one) as well as Rickie Fowler (top five in all four majors in 2014) and Jimmy Walker. The group prepared for the opening round by engaging in a spirited game of backyard baseball on Wednesday  —   Dufner was said to be the most powerful batter  —   and it clearly left them in a good frame of mind: Johnson shot 67, Fowler shot 69, Dufner and Spieth both had 71 and Walker shot 72. “A little frat house we have this week,” Thomas said. “It was fun. ” Thomas and Reed were long off the course by the time Mickelson made his way toward the clubhouse near 6 p. m. Mickelson, 46, has won more than 50 tournaments, including five majors, but none since the Open at Muirfield in 2013. Known for his sweeping   swing and wizardry around the greens, he has been plagued by inconsistency at this stage of his professional life. Putting together four successful rounds has become a significant hurdle. At a minimum, he now has one. Mickelson shredded Troon on Thursday, recording eight birdies against zero bogeys in a round that was nearly flawless. While most players are discomfited by the wind on Troon’s inward nine holes, Mickelson, as a   said he actually prefers that wind, which comes in from the left off the Firth of Clyde. It showed. He shot 31 on the back, two shots better than anyone else in the top 20, and birdied the second, fourth, sixth, eighth, 10th, 14th, 16th and 17th holes. Mickelson said he began thinking seriously about a possible 62 only after No. 17, a treacherous   where he whipped a   onto the green and rolled in his putt. On the 18th tee, Mickelson took his   instead of his driver, wanting to lay back from some dangerous bunkers. His shot nicked the edge of a bunker anyway but stayed out, and his   approach from about 175 yards spun to a stop a little more than five strides from the hole. Mickelson had missed momentous putts before (a   on a putt for 59 at a PGA Tour event in 2013) and made momentous putts before (the   that rolled around and in to give him the Masters title in 2004) but this was different. Others have shot 59. Others have won the Masters.   in a major was untouched. Mickelson did not shy away from it. Els bantered to him about it on the way up the fairway. Mickelson talked about it with his caddie, Jim Mackay, as they approached the green. Their read was that the ball should be aimed just outside the right edge of the cup, and Mickelson visualized the putt in his mind before delivering it just where he wanted it to go. It was in. “It was outside a few inches, breaking left in the middle of the putt and then straight the last bit,” he said, a sad smile coming over his face. He paused and shook his head. “Well, it’s supposed to be straight the last bit,” he said.