AUSTIN, Tex.  —   Brodie Copeland, 11, one of the victims of the attack in Nice, France, was such a   baseball player that teammates at his club in Texas called him the “Copeland Crush. ” He played second base with the Hill Country Baseball Club, near Austin. The owner of the club, Jonathan Paiz, said Brodie got his nickname because he would “crush” it when at bat. “Basically he would get up there and hit the ball hard,” Mr. Paiz said in a telephone interview. Brodie and his father, Sean Copeland, 51, were two of the victims of the attack, which killed at least 82 others, including nine other children and teenagers, and wounded 202 people. Gov. Greg Abbott of Texas, noting that the attack occurred less than a year after the attacks in and around Paris, said that for the second time in nine months, the French flag was being flown over the Texas Governor’s Mansion in remembrance. “While every heinous attack like this is tragic,” he said in a statement, “this latest one hits close to home. ” The Copelands were the only two Americans who had been confirmed dead as of Friday night. Three students from the University of California, Berkeley, were among the wounded, according to a statement issued Friday by the university. Two of the students, Vladyslav Kostiuk, 23, and Diane Huang, 20, were discharged after medical treatment and returned to their summer dormitories in Nice, the university said. Daryus Medora, 21, whose leg was broken, remained in the hospital. A fourth student, Nicolas Leslie, 20, was unaccounted for on Friday. They were among 85 students who were on a study abroad program with the university. The Copeland family lives in Lakeway, Tex. near Austin. They were on a vacation that began in Pamplona and Barcelona, Spain, before moving on to southern France. Mr. Copeland was traveling with his wife, Kim, whose 40th birthday celebration on Monday was part of the reason they went on the trip. In addition to Brodie, Mr. Copeland’s other children, his son Austin, 22, and daughter, Maegan, 29, from a previous marriage accompanied them, said Jess Davis, a family representative. On Friday in Lakeway, an affluent Hill Country community, many neighbors of the Copelands were stunned that an act of violence in Europe could reach thousands of miles across the Atlantic to invade their peaceful town. “It’s heartbreaking for everybody,” said Dianne Wood, who lives a few houses up the street from the Copelands and knows the family well. “The Copelands are a sweet family, and we just want to respect their privacy. ” She described Brodie Copeland as “an incredible boy  —   so much life, so much personality. ” Coleen Serfoss, Brodie’s   teacher, remembered him as a “superstar” who stood out in class, on the baseball field and on stage. He aspired to become an actor and had performed in   productions of “Cinderella” and “Peter Pan. ” He was also in the school’s honor choir. As they said their goodbyes on the last day of class, Ms. Serfoss recalled, she told Brodie, “When you get your Academy Award, I hope you remember me. ” Her principal called her Thursday night to tell her that Brodie had died. “When I woke up, I was hoping it was a dream until I turned the TV on,” she said at a news conference outside Lakeway Elementary School. Grief over Brodie’s death was palpable among Lakeway teachers. “He was just a very sweet, kind young man,” said Joy Crenshaw, a   teacher who often saw Brodie in the school cafeteria. “He always had a smile on his face. ” A tribute to the father and son was set up on the Facebook page of the Hill Country team, where Brodie had been playing baseball since 2014. It shows Brodie frolicking in the French Riviera waters. “Immediately, he made an impact on all of the coaches at HC,” said a   page set up by Mr. Paiz, the baseball club’s owner. Mr. Copeland worked at Lexmark, the printing and software company, which issued a statement after his death: “Sean was not only a terrific leader in the company, but a phenomenal person who will be dearly missed. Our hearts go out to Sean and his family, and for everyone who is suffering in France and elsewhere from this senseless violent act. ” Two of Mr. Copeland’s brothers are set to fly to Nice with the State Department to pick up the family and bring everyone home, according to a statement provided by Ms. Davis. The baseball group’s Facebook page became a forum for remembrance and mourning. “No words can describe how we feel,” wrote Jeff Petry. “Sean and Brodie touched our lives in so many ways. Such a good man and a great kid and teammate. ” “We will miss you #8,” wrote another man, Bill Bishop, referring to Brodie’s jersey number. “You will be missed but we know you were needed for bigger and better things. ”