The storm that devastated parts of the South over the weekend swept into the Northeast with strong gusts of wind and heavy rain, knocking down power lines and tree branches, flooding some coastal towns and disrupting transit across the region. By Tuesday morning, the worst of the storm had passed. The damage was significantly less than the storm’s southern passage, which left at least 20 people dead, including 15 in Georgia. On the Jersey Shore, flooding closed some roads in places like Wildwood, Atlantic City and Sea Bright. Photographs and videos shared on social media showed water pooling in and outside of the Hoboken Terminal. On the South Shore of Long Island, rain flooded the streets in Freeport and Lindenhurst. Some New Jersey school districts were closed or delayed opening on Tuesday because of the weather. In New York, small sections of the Belt Parkway, Van Wyck Expressway and   Expressway were flooded briefly. Power failures were reported in parts of Long Island, New Jersey, Staten Island and Queens. Wind speeds of more than 60 miles per hour in New Jersey and about 40 m. p. h. in New York prompted warnings from city officials on Monday, but the wind tapered significantly by Tuesday morning. The storm surge caused water to rise about     feet in New York, which officials described as mild. About 70 to 80 trees were blown down, said Nancy Silvestri, a spokeswoman for the New York City Emergency Management Department. “There are no major impacts from either last night’s high tide period or this morning,” Ms. Silvestri said. Residents from around the region spoke about the inconveniences and less about damage: The memory of hurricane Sandy, which caused a storm surge of more than 10 feet in places and left behind significantly more destruction, loomed larger. Sam Patel, owner of a Welsh Farms convenience store in Asbury Park, N. J. said the electricity went out a few times Monday night but came back on within five minutes. The wind also ripped off a piece of his storm gutter, which he refastened with tape. “All day the gusts were just like the classic hurricane type,” he said. “You could hear the rattling of the gutters, the hissing. ” What spared the area, he said, was that the rain was not particularly heavy. In Monmouth Beach, N. J. some flooded streets were blocked off with orange traffic cones. Tattered flags shook on flagpoles in a wind that had yet to fully dissipate on Tuesday morning. Toppled trash cans dotted main commercial streets. In Lindenhurst, Long Island, high tide peaked around 7:20 a. m. The canal used for crabbing and swimming in the summertime had overflowed into the road. Curbs disappeared under the pooled water. The six inches of floodwater did not reach the levels left by Hurricane Sandy, when “you could go kayaking in the streets,” said Darren Greene, 13, waiting for a bus to take him to school. He was not entirely confident about when, or if, the bus would come. The road had been blocked off just past the stop. Michael Gandolfi, his wife and their    son were stuck at home in Lindenhurst with about a foot of water in front of their house. So Mr. Gandolfi, 37, planned to use the day to play with his   boats. In the Red Hook neighborhood of Brooklyn, small bodies of water covered   roads. But the delivery crews, workers and early risers navigating the streets before dawn on Tuesday were not fazed. Alongside the loading docks of a Fairway Market grocery store, a pool of water formed the width of the street and about 50 yards long. “It’s like this any time it rains hard,” a Fairway employee said. A couple of drivers used a swath of the dry curb to pass, while a motorist in a   vehicle charged through the pool of water. Bruce Sullivan, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service, described the storm on Monday as a “strong nor’easter,” because of the high winds and heavy rain. The storm had deposited between an inch and an inch and a half of rain by Tuesday morning. Passengers at the region’s three major airports had faced long delays and cancellations on Monday. The weather forced the suspension of AirTrain service at Newark Liberty International Airport on Monday buses ran in its place. New Jersey Transit and Amtrak temporarily suspended service along some lines on Monday because of downed power lines. Two   systems contributed to the storm, Mr. Sullivan said. One, from the south, was weakening as another moved in from off the coast of the Delmarva Peninsula.