BRUSSELS  —   The United States and the European Union stepped up pressure on Monday on President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey to not use an attempted coup as an excuse for an authoritarian crackdown. Officials even suggested that Turkey’s continued membership in NATO and its aspirations of joining the European Union could be at stake. Meeting in Brussels, Secretary of State John Kerry and European Union foreign ministers called on Mr. Erdogan to show restraint in the wake of the failed coup, even as he continued to round up political opponents and as Turkey debated whether it should reinstate the death penalty to deal with the plotters. “Obviously, NATO also has a requirement with respect to democracy, and NATO will indeed measure very carefully what is happening,” Mr. Kerry said. “And my hope is that Turkey is going to move in ways that do respect what they have said to me many times is the bedrock of their country. ” On Monday, NATO’s secretary general, Jens Stoltenberg, condemned the coup attempt but added, “Being part of a unique community of values, it is essential for Turkey, like all other allies, to ensure full respect for democracy and its institutions, the constitutional order, the rule of law and fundamental freedoms. ” And the European Union’s foreign policy chief, Federica Mogherini, called for “the full observance of Turkey’s constitutional order, and we, as the European Union, stress the importance for the rule of law prevailing in the country. ” Mr. Erdogan’s government has detained more than 6, 000 military personnel since an attempted coup Friday night, and there are signs he is using the moment to widen a crackdown on perceived enemies. Turkey has been a crucial ally in the region for the United States and NATO, and it has also long sought membership in the European Union. The aftermath of the coup could present European Union leaders with particularly vexing  . In return for helping to curb the flow of migrants from Syria and other countries in the region into Western Europe, Turkey is expecting   travel to the European Union for its citizens this year, but the country must first meet benchmarks on protecting freedoms and upholding the rule of law. The flow of migrants across the Aegean Sea to the European Union has slowed to a trickle since leaders of the bloc and the government in Ankara reached a deal this year that gives funds to aid organizations in Turkey, along with other concessions. But the scale of the crackdown in the wake of the attempted coup in Turkey has rattled Western leaders. Alongside the members of the military, the Turkish government also dismissed thousands of judges, who seemingly played no role in the military revolt. “Obviously a lot of people have been arrested and arrested very quickly,” Mr. Kerry said, appearing to echo allegations by some Europeans that the Turkish authorities had prepared lists of people for reprisals even before the coup. “I think the level of vigilance and scrutiny is obviously going to be significant in the days ahead, and we’ll work very closely, and hopefully we can work in a constructive way, that prevents a backsliding, and that is our hope. ” Mr. Erdogan has urged the United States to extradite one of his former allies, the cleric Fethullah Gulen, to Turkey. Mr. Erdogan has accused Mr. Gulen of inspiring the coup attempt, which Mr. Gulen has denied. “I made it clear to the foreign minister there is indeed a very formal process for that, and there has to be a formal extradition request submitted through the appropriate channels, legal channels,” Mr. Kerry said of his Turkish counterpart, adding that he had urged the Turkish authorities to “send us evidence, not allegations. ” Separately, the United States ambassador to Turkey, John R. Bass, denounced as “categorically untrue” speculation “that the United States in some way supported the coup attempt. ” As American officials sought to manage the situation in Turkey, European officials grappled with calls from Erdogan supporters to reintroduce the death penalty, which Turkey abolished in 2004. Negotiations to bring Turkey into the European Union are already proceeding at a glacial pace, and Ms. Mogherini said the reintroduction of the death penalty would be a   as did a spokesman for Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany. “No country can become an E. U. member state if it introduces the death penalty,” Ms. Mogherini said at the news conference. The death penalty would also be incompatible with Turkey’s membership in the Council of Europe, a human rights organization with nearly 50 member states that operates separately from the European Union, she said. Formal negotiations on Turkish membership in the bloc started a decade ago, but there has been resistance from France and Germany, among others, as well as strong opposition from Cyprus, a member of the union that has been divided since Turkey invaded the north of the island in 1974. Boris Johnson, the newly appointed British foreign secretary, told reporters before the ministers’ meeting that there needed to be “restraint and moderation on all sides” in Turkey. The meeting in Brussels is Mr. Johnson’s first as foreign secretary after his successful campaign for Britain to leave the European Union, in a referendum on June 23. He was named to the position by Prime Minister Theresa May last week. Mr. Johnson was a divisive figure during the referendum campaign well beyond Britain, after he compared efforts by the European Union to unite the Continent with those of Adolf Hitler.   Ayrault, the French foreign minister, accused Mr. Johnson of telling lies to the British people during the campaign. On Monday, Mr. Johnson insisted that Britain would continue to play a part in shaping the region’s foreign policy, even without a formal tie to the European Union. “We have to give effect to the will of the people and leave the European Union, but that in no sense means that we are leaving Europe,” Mr. Johnson told reporters. “We not going to be in any way abandoning our leading role in European cooperation and participation of all kinds,” he said. Ms. Mogherini met briefly Sunday night with Mr. Johnson, and she emphasized that there could be no formal negotiations on a British departure from the bloc until the government began the legal process of leaving. Ms. Mogherini said that ministers were also expected to discuss the terrorist attack in Nice, France relations with China and the situation in Venezuela, as well as in Turkey.