GRAND RAPIDS, Mich.  —   Facing a torrent of criticism over his comments seeming to condone the hacking of Hillary Clinton’s emails by Russian intelligence services, Donald J. Trump and his allies on Thursday sought to tamp down his remarks, with Mr. Trump saying he was simply being “sarcastic. ” In public interviews and private conversations on Thursday, Mr. Trump his running mate, Gov. Mike Pence of Indiana and campaign staff members contended that Mr. Trump was being facetious when, during a news conference on Wednesday, he said he hoped Russia would be able to find Mrs. Clinton’s missing emails. “Of course I’m being sarcastic,” Mr. Trump told “Fox and Friends” Thursday morning as his aides accused the news media of misconstruing his remarks. And in an interview Thursday with the conservative radio host Laura Ingraham, Mr. Pence repeatedly said that Mr. Trump was merely joking. “He went on, using a statement laced with sarcasm, to point out that there are 33, 000 missing emails, according to the F. B. I. that Hillary Clinton deleted or did not make available in the course of that investigation,” Mr. Pence told Ms. Ingraham. But the assertions that his remarks should not be taken at face value were at odds with statements put out by Mr. Trump and his aides right after his news conference on Wednesday. Those statements insisted that Mr. Trump was urging Russia to return any purloined property to the F. B. I. Aides to both Mr. Trump and Mr. Pence were clearly caught off guard by Mr. Trump’s impromptu comments on Wednesday  —   when he said, “Russia, if you’re listening, I hope you’re able to find the 30, 000 emails that are missing”  —   and were surprised by the swift and immediate reaction to them, especially in the news media. The extraordinary moment  —   in which the Republican nominee basically urged Russia, an adversary, to conduct cyberespionage against a former secretary of state  —   again left Mr. Trump isolated from even some fellow Republicans, struggling to explain away another comment that had dominated yet another news cycle, and not necessarily in a positive way. Ed Brookover, a Trump campaign liaison to the Republican National Committee, said that the substance of Mrs. Clinton’s emails was what was most important  —   not Mr. Trump’s remarks. “The truth about the emails is that Hillary’s record as secretary of state was abysmal, and her lack of security left our secrets vulnerable,” Mr. Brookover said. “Let’s hope that no foreign countries did get access to her private email account. ” On Thursday, even while trying to reframe his original comments, Mr. Trump reiterated his remarks from a day earlier that President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia is “a better leader” than President Obama. “I said he’s a better leader than Obama because Obama’s not a leader, so he’s certainly doing a better job than Obama is, and that’s all,” Mr. Trump said in the “Fox and Friends” interview. “But you have 33, 000 emails deleted, and the real problem is what was said in those emails from the Democratic National Committee,” Mr. Trump said. “You take a look at what was said in those emails, it’s disgraceful. It’s disgraceful. ” For the second day in a row, Mr. Trump seemed to be conflating the roughly 30, 000 emails on Mrs. Clinton’s private server during her time as secretary of state that her lawyers deleted as personal, and the roughly 20, 000 Democratic National Committee emails that were hacked. Mr. Trump’s efforts to recalibrate his original remarks Wednesday began just hours after his news conference. Mr. Trump posted on Twitter on Wednesday that he was simply urging Russia, if it had indeed hacked Mrs. Clinton, to hand her emails over to the proper authorities. “If Russia or any other country or person has Hillary Clinton’s 33, 000 illegally deleted emails, perhaps they should share them with the F. B. I!” Mr. Trump wrote. Republicans were largely muted Thursday in their defense of Mr. Trump, save for Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former New York mayor, who is a supporter. “That server of hers was less secure than the D. N. C. server that was hacked,” Mr. Giuliani said at a news conference in Philadelphia, adding that he was “sure” Mr. Trump wanted the emails sent to the F. B. I. “Those emails are being held by people. They should be released before the election. ” In her radio interview Thursday morning, Ms. Ingraham asked Mr. Pence, “Should Americans be concerned that the Republican nominee is inviting a foreign government to hack into government emails?” Mr. Pence echoed the campaign’s public posture, saying several times that Mr. Trump was just being “sarcastic”  —   and he sought to recast Mr. Trump’s remarks. “Well, it’s absolutely not what he said,” Mr. Pence said. “What he said  —   what I said  —   was, clearly, if Russia or any foreign country was interfering or intervening or engaging in illegal activity in the United States, in our elections or otherwise, that there be serious consequences. ” At an afternoon rally Thursday in Davenport, Iowa, supporters of Mr. Trump offered almost uniform absolution for the comments, saying they believed he had been speaking facetiously. “I don’t think he was being serious,” said Tom Taylor, 68, a retiree from Wilton, Iowa. “It’s just media spin. He’s not a professional politician like the rest of them, so sometimes people misinterpret what he says. ” Still, some supporters allowed that Mr. Trump might have been imprudent in his remarks. “Maybe he shouldn’t have said that about Russia,” said Joan Watson, 63, from Walnut, Ill. “It just gives the Democrats more material for ads. I think he was just trying to get a reaction. But even if he was kidding, he knows Russia could probably do it. ” In a common refrain among the people waiting for the rally to begin, Dan Brethaner said of the comments, “That’s just Donald being Donald. ”