When it comes to culture, I’m probably more permissive than most parents. I read H. P. Lovecraft to my    Penny, and also showed her “Jaws” and “Alien,” but it wasn’t until I took her to a comedy club that I felt truly irresponsible. Parental guilt started sinking in after I persuaded a skeptical ticket taker at Carolines on Broadway to let a child see a headliner one Friday this month. As we waited for the opening acts to finish before we entered, I considered the many kinds of jokes I would not want Penny to hear and the years of therapy required to repair the damage. Noticing my mounting anxiety, she asked, “Daddy, are you about to make a mistake?” I answered honestly: “Maybe. ” At a time when   heroes dominate Hollywood, cartoon characters regularly invade Broadway and kids’ karaoke entertains crowds of thousands, live   remains stubbornly  . Few clubs are for all ages, and there is no   version of the singer Dan Zanes, a star for young audiences. Why do   comics cede this market to clowns and magicians? Would kids even like performers holding microphones telling jokes onstage? Seeking some answers, I took my daughter to shows looking for comedians she would find funny and I wouldn’t find inappropriate. The comic most likely to bridge the gap between adults and children is Jim Gaffigan, who along with Brian Regan is the greatest clean comic working today. He’s so   that he has performed for the pope, which also may be why he is not considered as cool as some of his peers. My daughter thought he was hilarious, although she took some time to warm up to him. Mr. Gaffigan tells jokes that kids can relate to with many references they understand. At a recent show at Foxwoods Resort Casino in Mashantucket, Conn. he did a bit about the horribleness of “Mary Had a Little Lamb” and another about the laziness of the grandfather in “Charlie and the Chocolate Factory. ” And in line with the trend, he did material from the perspective of a cranky parent. When he joked about his own children, what I considered funny Penny saw as punching down. “He’s funny, but that’s mean,” she said in a debrief after the show, her hands balling up into fists. What put him back in her favor was a story he told in which he “wet himself. ” Peeing, pooping and farting are comedy classics, at least a little funny to anyone honest with themselves. But what made this delightful for Penny was that it was an adult who had the accident. “Kids sometimes pee on themselves and   don’t like that,” she explained. “So when a   pees on himself, it’s funny. ” Mr. Gaffigan’s intricately delivered jokes about his gluttony and sloth have the crisply simple incongruities and   that any child can appreciate. When he said that his New Year’s resolution was to eat pasta every day, Penny raised her hand to her mouth to muffle her laughter. When he talked about men being gross, she whispered to me, “But he is a man. ” After saying he’s a character actor, Mr. Gaffigan paused, adding that is “secret code for ugly. ” Penny doubled over laughing, even though she had no idea what “character actor” meant. Jokes, of course, can be funny if you don’t understand every word, a truth kids grasp better than adults do. “Secret codes are just fun,” she said, matter of fact. Mr. Gaffigan’s show had gone so well that I decided to be more ambitious by taking Penny to Carolines the next night to see the charming rising comic Ron Funches. He is not as clean but has a twee, giggly delivery that I thought might appeal. It was a bad miscalculation. When I didn’t have my hands over her ears, in response to jokes with more cursing or sexual innuendo than I could handle, she was usually just confused. Staring blankly at a bit by Mr. Funches about spending more money than he has, Penny said, “I don’t get any of this. ” We left early. In retrospect, taking a child to a New York comedy club on a weekend was overly optimistic if not downright foolish. To make sure that a show is appropriate, it’s best to check with the theater in advance. I did that before seeing a set at the Peoples Improv Theater in Manhattan by the sharp New York comic Aparna Nancherla, in a new monthly show called “She Makes Me Laugh,” hosted by Laura Zabolotsky, Ashley Lara and Maria Bobila. Ms. Nancherla, whose new album is “Just Putting It Out There,” did a series of jokes commenting on slides projected on the wall.   offers less visual stimulation than movies or musicals, and this set proved that a few images go a long way. Sitting in the front row, Penny was rapt during a bit poking fun at different kinds of author photos, laughing merrily at a shot of a jovial guy wearing a book like a hat. Ms. Nancherla called the look Bookhead. Midway through her set, however, the slides froze and the comic was left onstage with nothing to play off. Struggling to save her set, she made up a few jokes on the spot about the slide frozen onscreen (which as it happened just said “dad”) before prematurely ending the show. Penny was disappointed, but liked the improvisation. “It was fun to watch her make stuff up,” she said, which may help explain why it’s easier to find improv for children than  . “I wanted the whole thing like that. ” By the end of my weeklong experiment, I hadn’t convinced my daughter that   comedy is better than a Harry Potter movie, but she had a good time at two of the three shows. Kids are individuals, with their own taste, but the greatest   comedy taps into some of the same things that the most popular children’s books do: delight in language, the purely silly and a grand sense of mischief. There’s a reasonable concern that reaching for a   brand of comedy would water down the form if not compromise its essence. But aesthetic diversity is a hallmark of comedy today and a Jerry Seinfeld for children does not threaten Jerry Seinfeld. Children have always devoured    —   I fell in love with comedy when I was around my daughter’s age, spending hours trying to understand the jokes on my older brother’s Steve Martin album  —   but the accessibility of the internet has expanded the audience. It’s only a matter of time before some savvy person makes a fortune catering to this demographic. On the taxi ride home from the Peoples Improv Theater, Penny offered this potential producer some advice. “Do shows earlier,” she said, smiling hours past her bedtime. “And there should also be more making fun of  . ”