A New York State assemblyman from the Bronx has filed a formal complaint against the police, claiming he was roughly handled by an officer after asking about police activity in his district. The assemblyman, Michael Blake, said that while he was attending a family event at the Gouverneur Morris Houses at East 169th Street and Washington Avenue, he saw a woman in handcuffs and approached the officers involved to discuss the situation. Moments later, Mr. Blake said, an argument broke out behind him. In a phone interview on Sunday, Mr. Blake said that as he rushed toward the confrontation a uniformed officer   him, lifted him off the ground and “slammed” him against a gate outside the housing complex. “It was not a pleasant interaction,” said Mr. Blake, 33, a freshman Democrat who represents part of the South Bronx. The Police Department confirmed that a sergeant and an officer were responding to an argument between neighbors shortly after 3:30 p. m. on Saturday. The police said that the assemblyman approached the sergeant from behind, without identifying himself, and “grabbed” his shoulder. A police spokeswoman said the officer, perceiving “a possible threat to the sergeant,” moved Mr. Blake about five feet and put him against a fence. Then, a captain from the Police Service Area patrolling the complex intervened after recognizing Mr. Blake as an elected official, the police said. In a statement issued on Sunday, the Police Department said that it “has been made aware of Mr. Blake’s allegations and will be conducting a review of the incident. ” Mr. Blake said he did not have time to identify himself as an elected official before he was grabbed, but confirmed that more senior officers intervened immediately and told the officer to let him go. The officer released him and was urged to apologize by superiors, the assemblyman said. And while the officer did offer an apology, Mr. Blake said, it fell short of an acknowledgment of fault. Mr. Blake said the officer claimed to be in “a protective mode” over his partner and added that “if the situation presented itself, he would do the same thing again. ” The assemblyman said that he did not recall touching the sergeant but that even if he had done so, “in the heat of the second, that didn’t justify what happened. ” Mr. Blake filed a formal notice Saturday night with the Civilian Complaint Review Board, claiming excessive force, something he thought may have been related to his race. “I can appreciate from the officer’s perspective that if they perceive someone is a threat to their fellow officer, regardless of race, they would act out in some way,” Mr. Blake said. “But I do believe that the level of response was far heightened because I’m a black man  —   no question. ” The use of excessive force by the police, particularly in relation to   has been a pressing local and national issue, highlighted by a series of   episodes across the country. Mr. Blake, said that he chose to make the complaint public because, “too often, people are quiet when these things happen” and “leaders have a responsibility to communicate to the community about how to take positive action. ” “I know that the only way that this is going to get better is if we are transparent and we talk about what we experience and what we learn, and how changes need to occur on all sides,” Mr. Blake said.