Six minutes and one second. That was all it took for the 66 years of Khizr Khan’s life to become an American moment. It was not something that he could have anticipated. For years, he and his wife, Ghazala, had lived a rather quiet existence of common obscurity in Charlottesville, Va. He was known in circles that dealt with electronic discovery in legal proceedings. Another overlapping sphere was the rotating cast of cadets that passed through the Army R. O. T. C. program at the University of Virginia. His wife was a welcoming face to the customers of a local fabric store. And the last dozen years for the Khans were darkened by their heartbreak over the death of a military son, Humayun, whose body lies in Arlington National Cemetery, his tombstone adorned with an Islamic crescent. Their grief brought them closer to a university and to a young woman in Germany whom their son loved. It also gave them a conviction and expanded the borders of their lives. Some of their neighbors knew Mr. Khan liked to carry a $1 pocket Constitution around with him. In the Khan home, a stack of them always lay at the ready. Guests showed up and they were handed one, in the way other hosts might distribute a party favor. Mr. Khan wanted it to stimulate a conversation about liberty, a cherished topic of his. He liked to point out that he lives nearly in the shadow of Monticello, home of one of his heroes, Thomas Jefferson. Mrs. Khan liked to say, “We need Thomas Jefferson. ” And then the Khans stepped into a sports arena in Philadelphia and left as household names. In a passionate speech at the Democratic National Convention, the bespectacled Mr. Khan stingingly criticized Donald J. Trump and his stance on Muslim immigration, scolding him, “You have sacrificed nothing and no one. ” Quickly enough, both Khans felt the verbal lashings of Mr. Trump, the Republican presidential candidate. And just like that, they found themselves a pivot point in the twisting drama that is American politics. This is another moment in the lives of Khizr and Ghazala Khan. In 1972, he was studying law at the University of the Punjab in Lahore, the largest public university in his native Pakistan. He was intrigued by Persian literature. Learning of a Persian book reading, he went. Ghazala was the host. He was raised in Gujranwala in Punjab Province, the oldest of 10 children. His parents had a poultry farm. “My life was very ordinary,” he said in an interview this week. “There was nothing special. I grew up as every other Pakistani. No extra   events took place during my lifetime, and we were modest people. ” But, he said, he had the ambition “to keep moving forward. ” The university reading was one thing, but what enchanted him was the host. She was from Faisalabad and was studying the Persian language. He engaged in some decorous maneuvering and decided that she was the woman he wanted to marry. He enlisted the help of his parents, who reached out to her parents. Then the real courtship began. In 1973, he graduated from law school and he was licensed with the Punjab bar in 1974. Already, his goal was to move to the United States. “Everybody’s dreams come true if you are able to study and complete higher education abroad,” he said. “That’s the plan we grew up with: that it makes your future better if you have a postgraduate degree from overseas, England or United States. ” But he did not have enough money. And so after the Khans were married, they moved to Dubai in the United Arab Emirates. For three years, Mr. Khan worked for an American oil field company as the lawyer who handled the affairs of the expatriate workers. Their first two sons were born, Shaharyar and Humayun. In 1980, the Khans came to the United States. First, they went to Houston to save up more money. The four of them squeezed into a $     apartment. Once he had the savings, he enrolled at Harvard Law School. He graduated in 1986 with a master of laws degree and became a citizen, as did his wife. They moved to Silver Spring, Md. and he found work reviewing mortgage documents. It was not his dream job, but a third son, Omer, had been born. Mouths had to be fed. In time, he moved on to several large law firms, where he specialized in the emerging area of electronic discovery. It involved finding information that was stored electronically to answer discovery requests from opposing sides in lawsuits. Robert Eisenberg, a consultant who is a pioneer of the field, came to know Mr. Khan well and found him highly proficient at his work and immensely likable. “There is an   gentility about him,” he said. “He has this veneer of formality. But under it is kindness. ” And so the Khans settled in, and they became an American life. There are different vantages from which to understand the Khans’ middle son, Humayun, and one of them is through Amir Ali Guerami. He was born in Iran and he happened to come to the Maryland middle school that Humayun attended. There were few Muslims, and that made Mr. Guerami different. And he was very overweight. He was taunted and beaten up. His middle name was Patrick. As he walked down the school hallways, bullies would bellow, “Fat Rick. ” And Humayun would hear this and step in. He would walk alongside him, a sentry staring the bullies down, deflecting them. And he intervened when Mr. Guerami was being roughed up outside the library. When he was punched in the throat in gym class and could not breathe. This cemented a friendship that continued throughout high school. Humayun was Mr. Guerami’s defender and his motivator. He urged him to exercise and to diet. And after his sophomore year, Mr. Guerami was 60 pounds lighter. As a high school student, Humayun swam and played basketball, and he taught swimming to children with disabilities. In his middle son, Mr. Khan saw the traits of his mother  —   farsighted and “much more balanced in her thinking and gestures. ” “I’m a little more emotional and shortsighted,” Mr. Khan said. Mr. Guerami saw this, too. “You always knew he had a plan,” Mr. Guerami said. “He wasn’t just stumbling through life like the rest of us. He was planning college from Day 1. ” They lost contact after high school. Mr. Guerami now lives in California and owns a mortgage company. He was watching the Democratic convention when the video came on about Captain Khan. And that was when Mr. Guerami learned that he had been an R. O. T. C. cadet at the University of Virginia and had joined the Army and had gone to Iraq and become a hero. That his life was frozen at age 27. The memories returned. “He had an impact on my life,” he said. “You read about kids being bullied in school and then their hurting themselves. He owed me nothing, a complete stranger. Yet he stood up for me. He was a savior. ” A German woman named Irene Auer sat down in a cafe in the Bavarian town of Amberg, and a man approached her. This was another moment in the life of Humayun Khan. He was stationed in the barracks at nearby Vilseck. This was 2002. She liked his manner, and she especially liked his English. ”There were many who spoke English very badly, or with a lot of slang, but not him,” she said. “He spoke beautiful English and had a very beautiful voice. ” They started dating. In time, she began studying international management but stayed with him in his apartment off base on weekends. His mother went to Germany in 2003, and the two became acquainted. In September 2003, Ms. Auer flew with Captain Khan to the United States to meet his father. This was serious stuff. Captain Khan loved to have a good debate with Ms. Auer, her family and her friends. One of his favorite topics was the meaning of life. As it happens, she opposed the war in Iraq. But he accepted his duty and was proud to be a soldier. “Once he even said to me, ‘You know that I am married,’ ” she said. “I asked him, ‘What do you mean you’re married?’ and he told me, ‘Yes, I am married to the U. S. Army.’ ” On Feb. 9, 2004, he left for Iraq. They planned to get married the following year and eventually settle in the United States. His intention was to go to law school. In one of the last emails she received from him, he told her to go pick out an engagement ring. It was his day off but he was not much for days off. He was the commander of the Force Protection Team of the 201st Forward Support Battalion, First Infantry Division, at Camp Warhorse in Diyala Province, Iraq. Sgt. Crystal Selby, one of the team’s drivers, went to pick him up that morning. June 8, 2004. He said he wanted to check the compound’s gate. On a day off? She told him to stay in his room. He was her boss. She could not order him to, and he got in. It was funny how she had known Captain Khan only a couple of months and yet it seemed like she had known him so much longer. It was the way he treated her and all of the soldiers. “He didn’t talk to you like he was in charge of you, but like a friend,” she said. “He taught you how to be better. Not better tanker or better fueler. Better human being. ” He made sandwiches for his soldiers when there was no time to get to lunch. He had such an easy sense of humor. “I read where someone called him a soldier’s officer,” she said. “To me, he was a human’s human. ” The drive took three or four minutes. She dropped him off outside the gate and headed to the office. An    taxi carrying two suicide bombers was creeping toward the gate. Captain Khan shouted for his men to hit the dirt. That may well have saved their lives. He moved toward the taxi, trying to halt it. Sergeant Selby was still in the truck, not even to the office, when she heard the explosion. When she arrived, the news of his death was already on the radio. The Army R. O. T. C. center at the University of Virginia is on the first floor of the Astronomy Building. The program is not large  —   a typical Army cadet class commissions 10 to 20 people. When you walk into the offices, it is the first room on the left. The Khan Room. There are several pictures of Captain Khan. Clippings about him. One of his uniforms. A letter of condolence from the Seven Society, one of the university’s secret societies. Memorial plaques. The piece he wrote for his commissioning. It is where who he was endures. It is a functional space, serving as a conference room, a place where prospective cadets might get interviewed or meetings held. When it is empty, cadets use it to study for exams. A few months after their son’s death, the Khans moved to Charlottesville, where their other two sons were living, so they could try to recover as a family. Shaharyar, their oldest son,   a biotech firm that Omer, their youngest son, works at. The Army R. O. T. C. program became a part of their restoration. Tim Leroux, who was the commander from 2009 to 2012 and retired a lieutenant colonel, saw them as the “mom and pop of the department. ” It became one of their rocks. They attended all its formal events. At the annual commissioning ceremony, Mr. Khan always spoke. When the cadets took the oath, he told them, they needed to think hard about their pledge to defend the Constitution, to reflect on what they were pledging to defend, because his son died for that document. And he would give each graduate one of his pocket Constitutions. Then there would be an award presented, the Khan award, that went to that year’s outstanding  . “For years, I’ve been telling people he’s the most patriotic person I’ve ever met, and I’ve met quite a few,” Mr. Leroux said of Mr. Khan. “There are people who will put on cutoffs of the American flag and say they’re patriotic. Or they’ll put on bumper stickers  —   America, Love It or Leave It  —   and say they’re patriotic. He has a much more profound idea of being patriotic. It’s a complete understanding of what liberty and democracy mean. ” Mrs. Khan came to these commissioning ceremonies, too. They were hard for her. Her grief over her son’s death reached deep. One day not long after moving to Charlottesville, she stopped at a local fabric store, Les Fabriques. She makes her own clothing and needed fabric. Carla Quenneville, the store’s owner, waited on her. Mrs. Khan told her the story of her son’s death. “She said she came in because she was so depressed and she said, ‘I have to get off my couch and stop crying,’ ” Ms. Quenneville said. “She had cried for a solid year. And we cried together that day. ” Ms. Quenneville wanted to bring sun back into her life. She told her, if she wished, she could spend time in the store, help out if she wanted. And so she did. Pretty much every Monday, she began showing up and assisting customers, giving them tips on the sewing machines that the store sold. Since she prayed five times a day, she sometimes used a back room to pray. The fabric store helped her mend her own life. The sorrow, though, persists. “A new staff person comes on, she tells the story of her son,” Ms. Quenneville said. “And she cries. She can’t get through this. ” There was other healing to be done in the circle of their son’s life. When Ms. Auer, the woman Captain Khan planned to marry, came to his funeral, Mrs. Khan presented her with his favorite quilt. She asked her to return it when she got married, so they would know she was happy again. Two years later, Ms. Auer was still adrift. The Khans invited her to stay with them, and she did, from May until August 2006. “They said to me, come, we need you here by us,” she said. After returning to Germany, she met a man who became her husband. They have two daughters. She realizes she should return that quilt. It was important to the Khans to know the R. O. T. C. cadets, really know them, and so they began the ritual of the dinners at their house. There would be one dinner each year for the freshmen cadets and one for the seniors. A front room was filled with mementos and objects no parent ever wants  —   the letter of condolence from President George W. Bush, the American flag that had covered the coffin. Often, the Khans would show the cadets the room for them to understand the magnitude of the step they were taking. “The Khans didn’t become bitter when they lost their son or become angry with the military,” said Joe Riley, a cadet who graduated in 2013. “The exact opposite. They showed tremendous pride in us. ” He remembered how Mr. Khan pulled him aside and told him how he felt blessed to be in this country and how much he admired the American military. The focus at these dinners would swivel to the cadets  —   who they were, why they wanted to join the Army, what future they envisioned. As they shared, Mrs. Khan, always the R. O. T. C. mom, would remind them to eat their vegetables. At one dinner, he told of how he had pictures of himself as a boy wearing an Army uniform and digging tiny foxholes on the farm he lived on in Tennessee. As he got older, he just felt it was the correct thing to do, the only thing to do. He said he felt that if you live in your country and enjoy its wonders, you should give back. For him, the Army was the way to fulfill that obligation. His parents had a different view. When they learned of his plans, they did not speak to him for eight weeks. And, oh, how the Khans loved hearing this conviction in a young man, this resolute belief in guarding American democracy. In 2011, Joe Riley won the Khan Award. He went on to become a Rhodes Scholar and is now stationed in Fort Lewis, near Tacoma, Wash. an Army lieutenant. Everything had happened in the space of a week, and it was so much. The Khans were on “Meet the Press” and “State of the Union” and “PBS NewsHour,” some dozen news shows in all, fresh arrivals in the political process. All from the dominoes of chance. Months ago, Mr. Khan was quoted in an article in Vocativ, an online publication, criticizing Mr. Trump’s position on Muslims. When asked about Muslim extremism in the United States, he recounted a conversation with his older son about the need to root out “traitors” among them. Seeing the article, campaign officials for Hillary Clinton wanted to put his son in a video to be shown at the convention, and then asked the Khans if they wished to say a few words. And now all this. Mr. Khan was on “Anderson Cooper 360” this week, and he seemed spent. He said they would not become silent but they were withdrawing. “I will continue to remind you what your behavior for the whole year had been,” he said addressing Mr. Trump. “I am not going to continue to appear on television. It is really disturbing because it is emotionally disturbing. It is   disturbing. ” He told The Times this week that he was exhausted from talking to reporters and that it was harming his health. In recent years, he had gone out on his own as a legal consultant. A few days ago, he took down the website promoting his law work. He said that he was getting hateful messages and that he was worried about it being hacked. Insinuations were being made, that he was involved in shady immigration cases. He said he has had no clients come to him for that sort of work. He said he did commercial law, especially electronic discovery work. The Khans had been one sort of family and now they are another. In the   way that it can happen in modern society, they have become public figures. They were put up in Washington hotels for their TV appearances. People floated up to them on the street. Took selfies with them. They wanted to be themselves again, mingle with cadets and talk about sewing at the fabric store. A few days ago, done with a round of interviews in Washington, they stopped at Arlington National Cemetery to visit the grave of their son. Then they went home.