Carl Icahn was late, but he still had something to say. Wedging himself around a table crowded with Republican donors at a Hamptons beach house, he jumped in as Senator Mitch McConnell described how important it was to hold on to the Senate this fall. It was important to help Republicans hold the Senate, Mr. Icahn told the room. But they were kidding themselves if they thought they could leave Donald J. Trump twisting in the wind. “We have to get behind Trump,” Mr. Icahn said, according to two people who attended the event, held shortly after the Republican convention in Cleveland. “We all have to come together. ” In hotel suites and skyboxes, from K Street to the Texas suburbs, in conversations that are both urgent and strained, allies of Mr. Trump are imploring senior Republicans and senior party donors to come to Mr. Trump’s aid, despite a damaging series of   controversies that have left some in the party ready to abandon him. The goal is to persuade thousands of the party’s most reliable patrons to overcome their lingering objections to the candidate most of them never wanted, and to help defeat a Democrat most of them want even less. In the coming weeks, Mr. Trump and campaign officials will attend a string of     organized with the Republican National Committee, hitting the summer haunts of the     —   from East Hampton to the California wine country  —   in a   effort to tap into the party’s vast financial reserves. On Monday in Detroit, Mr. Trump is scheduled to unveil a set of detailed economic policy prescriptions, a speech his supporters hope will help Mr. Trump reset his campaign and remind wavering Republican donors of the stark contrast that he offers to Hillary Clinton on issues like taxes and regulation. “It’s somewhat of a natural evolution with the donor base,” said Gaylord T. Hughey Jr. an energy lawyer who formerly backed Jeb Bush and is now helping lead Mr. Trump’s   in Texas. “I think the traditional donor base was somewhat shocked by Trump’s nomination. They’re learning more about him, but they’re also focused on what the alternative is, and what the implications of the alternative are. ” It is a dizzying turnaround for everyone involved, several donors said in interviews. Aides and   for Mr. Trump, a   billionaire who has spent months proclaiming his independence from the party’s traditional financial interests, now concede that they need mainline Republican donors to swing behind Mr. Trump so that he will have enough financial firepower to compete with Mrs. Clinton in the air and on the ground. While Mr. Trump’s campaign has rapidly ramped up     bringing in $64 million jointly with the Republican committee through digital and direct mail appeals in July, he is lagging behind Mrs. Clinton on larger checks, particularly the   and   donations that wealthy donors make to party organizations. And just as he asks for help, the party’s establishment donors are reeling from Mr. Trump’s decision to pick fights with the family of a deceased Iraq war veteran and the popular Republican House speaker, Paul D. Ryan. Even so, many are grappling with the fact that he remains their only chance at keeping a Democrat out of the White House. But donors supportive of Mr. Trump said in interviews that they were encouraging their peers to consider the downside of a Clinton administration: a liberal Supreme Court and economic policies pushed to the left by Senator Bernie Sanders and the Democrats’ newly empowered progressive wing. “As he unfolds more details of his various policies, I believe the level of comfort will grow,” Wilbur L. Ross Jr. a New York investor and donor who held a   for Mr. Trump in July, said in an email. “More and more people are realizing that they shouldn’t be distracted by the sideshows that result from clever Democratic baiting of Trump,” he added. Some Trump backers argue that despite his criticisms of Washington, Mr. Trump is likely to lean heavily on conservative think tanks and   trade associations to stock his administration. Others are urging their fellow donors to face the hard truth that Mr. Trump thumped the donor class’s preferred candidates and earned the favor of Republican voters. Now, they say, it is time for the donors to respect the voters’ wishes. “In addition to fear of    policies under a President Hillary Clinton, there’s a certain earned respect for Trump among these people,” said Kellyanne Conway, an adviser to Mr. Trump who is close to some of the party’s biggest donors. “The difference with some of these other successful people is respect for people who elevated him to the nomination. ” There are plenty of vocal and visible holdouts. Paul E. Singer, the prominent New York investor who raised more than $3 million for Mitt Romney during the 2012 campaign, has conveyed to Republican officials that he would not donate a dollar more to the Republican National Committee as long as Mr. Trump was the party’s nominee. Other prominent donors spoke out last week after Mr. Trump’s belittling of the parents of Capt. Humayun Khan, who died in a car bombing in Iraq in 2004 while serving in the Army. Seth Klarman, a Boston financier who has given more than $4 million to Republican candidates and groups over the years, has decided to back Mrs. Clinton. So has Meg Whitman, the   executive who was a leading   for Mr. Romney’s campaign, and who said last week that Mr. Trump was a “dishonest demagogue. ” On Wednesday, Mr. Klarman said that Mr. Trump’s “words and actions over the last several days are so shockingly unacceptable in our diverse and democratic society that it is simply unthinkable that Donald Trump could become our president. ” Mr. Trump has also been abandoned by Charles G. and David H. Koch, the billionaire brothers who oversee a network of conservative political and philanthropic groups. Many of their allied donors traveled to a luxury resort in Colorado Springs last weekend for the summer edition of the network’s biannual “seminars. ” Mr. Ryan, who clashed with Mr. Trump last week before finally getting his endorsement Friday for   was invited to speak at the event. Mr. Trump was not  —   though some Trump supporters pressed his case at private meetings and cocktail hours. Doug Deason, a Dallas investor whose family is active in the Koch’s political network, urged Charles Koch to reconsider, Mr. Deason recalled in an interview. Mr. Koch declined. “I brought up the fact that it would be nice for him to at least say that he would vote for him,” said Mr. Deason, whose conversation with Mr. Koch was first reported by The Hill. Mr. Koch has said that Mr. Trump’s policies do not align with his own, or those of the groups that he and his brother oversee, and that they cannot support him simply because he is the Republican nominee, according to James Davis, a spokesman for Freedom Partners, a nonprofit group that runs the seminars. Mr. Deason said that other   donors he spoke to were supporting Mr. Trump financially on their own. So is William I. Koch, the estranged brother of Charles and David, who hosted Mr. Trump at his home in Cape Cod, in Massachusetts, on Saturday. And Mr. Trump is also having luck outside the ranks of megadonors, among the thousands of business owners and volunteer   who form the base of     in presidential campaigns. “It’s no different from raising money with either Mitt or John McCain,” said Brian D. Ballard, a Florida lobbyist who previously backed Mr. Bush and Senator Marco Rubio, but is now raising money for Mr. Trump. Two recent events, in Tampa, Fla. and Miami, raised more than $2 million for Mr. Trump and his party. “It’s about: What is government going to look like?” said Mr. Ballard. “A Clinton government? To most of the people I deal with, it’s horrifying. ”