Luis Severino sat in the Yankees’ clubhouse Sunday morning, inquisitively viewing several televisions that were broadcasting speculation about Alex Rodriguez’s future. Late Saturday night, the Yankees had announced a news conference with Rodriguez to be held before Sunday’s game against the Cleveland Indians. Severino, his teammates and Manager Joe Girardi had been given little indication of the purpose of the news conference before Rodriguez announced his plans to end his playing days after Friday’s game against the Tampa Bay Rays at Yankee Stadium. Severino, 22, is one of several players from the Yankees’ farm system who will be expected to usher in a new era. The announcement of Rodriguez’s retirement came two days after Mark Teixeira had announced his own plans to depart baseball after this season. Combined with a series of trades of veterans over the last week, the Yankees have all but officially closed the chapter on an era of exorbitant signings. “Clearly, there’s transition going on right now,” General Manager Brian Cashman said before the Yankees’   win over the Indians. “This roster has been getting younger the last few years. It’s by intent and is stated publicly and something that’s necessary. I think it’s an exciting time, because there is some young blood that is coming in here. They have big dreams, and they have big hopes. ” Over the past week, the Yankees have kept up a facade by declaring themselves still contenders, despite having dealt Aroldis Chapman, Andrew Miller, Carlos Beltran and Ivan Nova before the nonwaiver trading deadline. On Sunday, while addressing questions mainly relating to Rodriguez, Girardi also conceded that the club was undergoing a “transition. ” Catcher Brian McCann said the Yankees had contributed to the housecleaning by not winning more. “This game, you see kind of how teams are winning, when you can get   prospects  —    that’s what they’re doing,” McCann said. “They’ve got a lot of good prospects in this organization that are impact players. ” He added, “Some guys were coming off the books, and it was a business decision that they had to make. ” Several players praised Rodriguez. C. C. Sabathia called him the best player of his generation. Outfielder Brett Gardner said: “The ultimate way to go out is on your own terms. Tex is getting the opportunity to do that, and it’s sad to see that Alex isn’t. ” The decision to part with Rodriguez was not a simple one. This summer, amid declining production, Rodriguez became a platoon player and was finally benched outright. His future hovered over the team like a dark cloud. “It’s been a tough week,” Girardi said Sunday. Then, alluding to Teixeira’s retirement, he added: “To lose guys like this, it’s hard. Alex has meant a ton to me. This has been a tough month. Obviously, it’s a hot topic every day, and it’s not an easy topic to talk about, so it’s taken its toll. ” After the Rodriguez saga reached its conclusion, Masahiro Tanaka threw his first pitch of the afternoon with nary a cloud in the sky above the field. Tanaka pounded the corners of the strike zone against the Indians, shutting them out for the first six innings as the Yankees took a   lead. Gardner scored after leading off the bottom of the first with a triple, Didi Gregorius hit a solo home run, and Teixeira added a   double. Tanaka struck out eight and was charged with one run over   innings, improving to  . “It was probably his best start of the year,” said Girardi, who bolstered his case by adding that Tanaka had pitched on only four days’ rest. Entering Sunday, Tanaka was   with a 4. 95 E. R. A. with four days between starts and   and 1. 87 with five days. On Tuesday, Severino will start against the Red Sox in Boston, his first start since May 13, after which he was injured and sent for rehabilitation in Class AAA  . “It’s weird,” Severino said. “We were one of the teams that had more veterans, and now we only have, like, two or three. It’s different. ”