WASHINGTON  —   There are plenty of perks to being president of the United States. One of them is glamorous birthday parties. For the past seven years, from the ages of 48 to 55, President Obama has celebrated the annual occasion with a growing collection of celebrities, sports stars, business executives, movie moguls and politicians  —   all dancing into the small hours of the morning. On Friday night and well into Saturday, Mr. Obama did it again, celebrating his 55th birthday  —   his last as commander in chief  —   with a big White House party. East Wing staff members were told to expect to be working until 4 a. m. Guests were asked not to tweet pictures (some did anyway) or spill any details. One birthday guest, who normally has a very good memory, insisted late Saturday that he had imbibed too much to remember a thing. (It’s not clear what the guest was drinking, but Mr. Obama favors   Grey Goose martinis.) Another birthday friend recalled only seeing Alonzo Mourning, a retired Miami Heat basketball star, and watching Stevie Wonder perform. Magic Johnson tweeted a picture of himself and his wife on Friday evening. “Cookie and I getting ready to go to President Obama’s birthday party!” he wrote. The Rev. Al Sharpton tweeted at 1:10 a. m.: “Leaving the White House after the celebration of President Obama’s birthday. His last birthday as President. ” Others spotted at the White House before the party included the talk show host Ellen DeGeneres Grant Hill, a former N. B. A. star George Lucas, the creator of “Star Wars” and a collection of former Obama aides and media celebrities. The   Nick Jonas tweeted afterward: “Tonight was a night I will never forget. #BarackObama #happybirthday. ” Paul McCartney was also a guest. The president has demonstrated little interest in the political schmoozing and official social life of the nation’s capital and spends hours each weeknight largely alone, working in his private office in the White House Treaty Room. It is safe to say that more than a decade ago, when he was a   state senator in Illinois, he would not have expected one of the Beatles to sing him “Happy Birthday. ” But like the Kennedys, the Reagans and the Clintons, the Obamas have reached outside Washington and embraced an elite, moneyed stratum of American life. In his second term, Mr. Obama has been going to, or hosting, small dinner parties with actors, intellectuals, scientists, tech giants and billionaires. Two years ago in Rome, the architect Renzo Piano, the particle physicist Fabiola Gianotti and the chairman of Fiat, John Elkann, were at his table. The Obamas have also insisted on keeping the partying as secret as possible. Names of those invited to nonofficial parties at the White House are never made public, and what does come out is usually from tweets from guests, like Mr. Johnson and Mr. Sharpton. In June 2015, Mr. Obama had a private party at the White House for 500 people, including Wall Street executives, Washington lobbyists, movie stars, members of his cabinet and others. Prince performed at the weekend bash, 10 months before his death from an accidental drug overdose. The White House had not provided notice of the party on Mr. Obama’s public schedule, and when word leaked out  —   through a tweet by Mr. Sharpton that said, in part: “Awesome to see Prince and Stevie Wonder on keyboards together. Unbelievable experience. ”  —   there was an outcry from the White House press corps. The White House was unmoved. “The president and first lady are going to reserve the right to host private parties at the White House,” Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, said at the time. This time, the White House made a formal announcement of the birthday party a few hours before it started. “This evening the first lady is hosting a 55th birthday celebration for the president at the White House,” a statement said. “The guest list includes a large number of family members and friends to mark the occasion. The private event will be paid for with the family’s personal funds. ” White House officials say all similar private events are paid for by the Obamas, though it is unclear whether those costs include security and staff workers, who would be on hand at the White House anyway. But one thing is certain to change: The address for Mr. Obama’s next birthday party won’t say 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue.