FONTANA, Calif.  —   The fire in Cajon Pass was first reported as a   blaze along a highway 13 miles northeast of San Bernardino. So John McColly went about his business when he saw the smoke from Mountain High, a ski resort to the west of Wrightwood, where he works. Kevin Foree, a roofer working in Bellflower, southwest of the fire, heard about the blaze, but he figured he would have no trouble getting home to Victorville, to the northeast. But the speed of the Blue Cut Fire stunned even experienced fire officials. Fed by a buffet of shrubs squeezed of moisture and coaxed by the wind, the flames roared through 2, 500 acres, then 6, 500 acres in a matter of hours. Evacuations were ordered and major highways, including the interstate that links Los Angeles and Las Vegas, began to close. That, Mr. McColly said, was a signal that it was “time to go. ” The ski resort’s 40 or so employees joined thousands of other residents  —   many with their vehicles packed with whatever fit  —   fleeing the onrushing flames. About 82, 000 residents in an estimated 34, 500 homes were ordered to evacuate. By Wednesday, the fire had consumed more than 25, 000 acres, burning houses, businesses and outbuildings in its wake. (The official measurement lowered the estimate from about 30, 000 acres earlier in the day.) It was still raging out of control late in the day, and officials were warning residents to prepare for the worst. “There will be a lot of families that come home to nothing,” said Mark Hartwig, the San Bernardino County fire chief. Mr. Foree, a transplant from Northern California, was stuck overnight in a Red Cross shelter here. On Wednesday, still wearing his khaki shorts and work boots, he worried that his mother would run low on medication before he could get home. He marveled at the fire, which he said had taken even seasoned locals like his girlfriend’s family by surprise. “They have never seen anything like this,” he said. Mr. McColly, like many other evacuees from Wrightwood, found safety by heading west toward Pasadena. At midday Wednesday, the resort was still not threatened by the fire. Fire officials warned on Wednesday that explosive fires like this one were becoming more common. “It’s to the point where explosive fire growth is the new normal this year, and that’s a challenge for all of us to take on,” said Glenn Barley, the San Bernardino unit chief of the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection, also known as CalFire. The fire has been a jolt during a fire season that has been quieter than usual nationwide. Experts said this season has had about a quarter fewer fires start and acres burn for this point in the year. Nevertheless, several recently ignited wildfires are burning in California, although they have not moved as quickly as Blue Cut. The Chimney Fire, which began on Saturday, has burned 7, 300 acres in San Luis Obispo and was 25 percent contained. The Clayton Fire, near Lower Lake in Northern California, started the same day, and has burned nearly 4, 000 acres. It was 40 percent contained. And the Soberanes Fire, in Monterey County, has burned almost 80, 000 acres over nearly two months. The enduring drought may have played a role here, even as relief comes elsewhere. “You’ve had three, four years of drought that’s been going on, so the conditions in the mountains are just prime for a large fire,” said David Simeral, a climatologist and an author for the United States Drought Monitor. “You’ve got all the dry fuels, low humidity and winds, it’s a formula for fires spreading quickly. ” Richard Minnich, a professor in the department of earth sciences at the University of California, Riverside, said it was not so much the   drought, but the weather of the day  —   coupled with a prevailing fire management strategy in which, he said, small fires are knocked down quickly but larger ones can grow more out of control  —   that had driven the fire. The low humidity, Mr. Minnich said, had dried out shrubs and bushes  —   known as chaparral  —   making them as flammable as a carpet. “It’s got a reputation for burning explosively,” he said of the chaparral, adding, “As soon as it’s blowing up like that, the capacity to stop the fire goes to zero. ” What no one disputes, however, is that, in less than 24 hours, the fire had turned people’s lives upside down. Outside the shelter here, Cathleen Coakley, 54, stood with her two small dogs. Sheriff’s deputies had canvassed her neighborhood in Lytle Creek on Tuesday, ordering everyone to leave, and she left almost everything behind, including five more dogs and five cats. “I want to go home. I want to check on my animals,” she said. “You just have to have faith that you will have a home to go to. ”