BATON ROUGE, La.  —   Darren McKinney knows about floods, having spent days huddling in the upper rooms of a house when the waters of Hurricane Katrina drowned his New Orleans neighborhood, the Lower Ninth Ward, 11 years ago this month. And so on Saturday afternoon, at a house in a Baton Rouge subdivision that had been flooded a week earlier, Mr. McKinney passed his knowledge on to a group of volunteers from lowernine. org, a nonprofit organization founded after Hurricane Katrina: cut the drywall here, this high up, and pull out the insulation like this. “Because I’ve been through it,” he said, “I know the dos and don’ts. ” There are plenty here in south Louisiana who have been forced to learn this kind of thing, and plenty who have learned much larger lessons as well. Those lessons include how to get money most efficiently from the federal government and ways to avoid leaving thousands of people for years in temporary shelters, like the notorious Federal Emergency Management Agency trailers, as the rebuilding proceeds. The big thoughts and small details constitute a grimly earned expertise here and particularly in New Orleans, which sits just 75 miles down the road. It is a   that will now be drawn on considerably, with   devastation across 20 parishes, at least 60, 600 homes damaged or ruined, and the long and often exasperating road to recovery just now beginning. “The silver lining, if there is any silver lining, is that this sits in a large region that has a lot of experience with rebuilding and recovery,” said Mary L. Landrieu, a former United States senator from Louisiana, and a veteran of funding fights during the hurricane recovery. “They don’t have to go far to find experts. ” Many organizations that came into existence to tackle problems after Hurricane Katrina are now on the front lines of this recovery, which President Obama will survey during a visit on Tuesday. The Louisiana Civil Justice Center, started in the months after the hurricane to respond to the many and confounding legal issues of the poor, is the official statewide legal aid resource in the state bar association’s disaster plan. The St. Bernard Project, a nonprofit rebuilding group which now calls itself SBP and was started by two volunteers in 2006 in a parking lot in a wrecked parish outside of New Orleans, is planning to open at least one office, if not several, in Baton Rouge. The group’s leaders have been in talks with advertising firms in New Orleans about campaigns to educate people about how to navigate the FEMA process for grants and loans, how to avoid being defrauded by contractors and how to do some   work without any outside help at all. All are things that the group learned after Hurricane Katrina and in subsequent relief efforts elsewhere around the country. “The fact is, disaster recovery hasn’t worked well in America, ever,” said Zack Rosenburg, one of the founders of the group, which has done rebuilding work after floods in South Carolina and West Virginia. “It’s an extraordinarily challenging process. ” On Saturday, some of the original members of the Louisiana Recovery Authority, the state agency set up to oversee the rebuilding after Hurricane Katrina, met with local and state officials at the offices of the Baton Rouge Area Foundation, a civic group, to talk about the lessons of the last 11 years. With homes in Louisiana still underwater, the talk was preliminary, said John Spain, the executive vice president of the foundation. But there was plenty to look back at and see as experiences not to repeat. “We’re 11 years after Katrina, and only 60 percent of the housing stock in St. Bernard Parish is back,” Mr. Spain said, referring to a parish just east of New Orleans that was almost entirely destroyed by the levee failures after the hurricane. This time, it was Livingston Parish, just east of Baton Rouge, that was almost entirely flooded. “It’s important that we don’t repeat mistakes whether it’s from Sandy or Katrina or Gustav. ” Part of the issue then was how long it took for homes to be rebuilt and essential services to come back. After Hurricane Katrina, thousands endured extended stays in FEMA trailers, and thousands of others eventually settled down permanently in cities elsewhere, bleeding New Orleans of its population. In this flood response, several officials said, FEMA is pursuing a strategy of getting people to move back as quickly as possible into at least one or two rooms of their   houses, an aim that would depend on quick payments and a work force of volunteers. “Our efforts to help the schools get back open and get as many people back in their home as soon as possible is going to minimize the effect we had after Katrina,” said Lt. Gov. Billy Nungesser, a Republican, who praised the federal response. “Right after Katrina, we didn’t see that passion to really help,” he said. Still, there is plenty that has not been learned, or learned but not fixed. A report released last year by Save the Children, an advocacy group, found that few of the recommendations of a federal commission on children and disasters, which was set up after Hurricane Katrina, have been carried out nationally. And those who have worked with poor and   families since Hurricane Katrina expect to see many of the exact same problems they saw over the last decade, even if they now feel more savvy about fighting them. “The kinds of things you’re going to see early on are things like people facing a potential eviction because housing is scarce,” said Laura Tuggle, the executive director of the Southeast Louisiana Legal Services, which helped the poor after Hurricane Katrina. She ticked off some more of what she expected: sudden sharp rises in rent, withheld deposits, increases in domestic violence for those stuck in close quarters and, for homeowners, complicated title problems that could jeopardize access to assistance. All of these are matters that lawyers with her group had to tackle after Hurricane Katrina. She has already gotten calls about some of them this time. “You know what needs to be done,” Ms. Tuggle said, recalling the months during which she was unable to get back to her home in New Orleans in 2005. “Because we’ve been there. ” Betty Michelli, 63, of Baton Rouge, has now been there, though she had never been there before. On Saturday, volunteers with the St. Bernard Project were gutting her house and piling debris out on the front lawn. She and her husband stood in the hot garage, going over all that they do not know about disasters, from how FEMA is supposed to contact them, to how one gets loans from the Small Business Administration, to what exactly they are going to be doing next. “I don’t know,” she said. “I just sit down and cry. ”