Fifteen years ago, I was a Peace Corps volunteer living in a village of mud huts on the dry Sahel landscape of northern Ivory Coast. The nearest market town, Ferkessédougou, was 20 miles away, and every Thursday morning I would mount my Trek 820 and pedal out past the last huts, announcing in limited   my intention to ride to Ferké and return by sundown. In town, I would collect groundnut paste and cucumbers, down a cold Coke and buy a local newspaper. Once, below the   fold, I saw a picture of a man playing tennis. The man was bending low for a backhand, and his form evoked something of yesteryear.   attire, planted leg, clean   stroke. The man was Ivorian, and Abidjan, Ivory Coast’s largest city, had just hosted some kind of national tennis tournament. At this information, I considered my days on the high school tennis team and my friends in Ferké and the village. I figured I might just be one of the best tennis players in the entire country. Today, I live across the African continent in Rwanda, and I thought of this photo recently when a United States Tennis Association newsletter dropped into my inbox acclaiming a charity project with the subject line “Maine Woman Brings Tennis to Africa. ” No, she did not. And I am nowhere near the best player in any African country. If my difficulty handling the   groundstrokes of    Ernest Habiyambere, Rwanda’s top player, is any indication, I should be ashamed I ever considered the possibility I was a national contender. Except for two South Africans, no players from   Africa will play in this year’s United States Open, but the world’s poorest continent indeed plays tennis, and plays it well. I have spent some time exploring African tennis during my many years in   Africa. I have watched Habiyambere clean up at local tournaments, sat courtside at International Tennis   junior championships, and been stomped by Ghanaian teenagers. I suspect that  —   to inversely paraphrase the U. S. T. A. newsletter  —   an    could bring Africa to tennis sooner than we think. Regional ascendancy tends to happen quickly in sports. In 1990, only six Eastern Europeans were among the top 50 players in women’s tennis. Today a legion occupies nearly half of those slots. The world’s   man, Novak Djokovic, led a class of Serbian players who emerged in the  . For its part, Africa has scaled to the heights of another sport over the same period: soccer. The youngsters who watched Cameroon’s pioneering run to the 1990 World Cup quarterfinals have filled roster spots on Europe’s greatest teams, including superstars like Samuel Eto’o, who scored more than 100 goals for Barcelona. Is African tennis the next African soccer? Where might the African counterpart to Djokovic, who struck tennis balls in an empty Belgrade swimming pool as a child, be found ripping forehand after forehand? To understand African tennis is to understand the fate of the game’s juniors, the children who learn the game as ball boys at private clubs, the teenagers who rally with local businessmen for cash to enter tournaments, and the talent tapped by the I. T. F. to compete worldwide. It is also to understand why, in any given week, rarely is more than a single black player from   Africa ranked among tennis’s top 1, 000 players. Habiyambere likes this, an opportunity for an angle when a backhand lands near his service line and hangs waist level. At the sight of this sitter, he cocks low and then snaps his racket through the ball, drilling a forehand that smacks the clay and kicks off the deuce side beyond the flail of Olivier Havugimana, Rwanda’s No. 2 player. Habiyambere has early control of the Gasigwa Memorial Tournament final. It is March at Cercle Sportif de Kigali, Rwanda’s premier tennis club. Rwanda, an area smaller than Massachusetts, is known as the land of a thousand hills, and Cercle Sportif sits pinched between two of them. The leafy Kiyovu neighborhood rises above the club’s six clay tennis courts on one side on the other, a soccer field sunk at the valley bottom abuts the poorer Gikondo neighborhood. At Court 1, Rwanda’s tennis establishment has clustered on a wooden grandstand to watch Habiyambere and Havugimana: older weekend players in Adidas tracksuits, returned members of the diaspora in slacks and oxford shirts, and Maj. Gen. Jean Bosco Kazura, whose résumé includes the military campaign to end Rwanda’s 1994 genocide and a nice kick serve to the backhand. Shouts of “ !” and “oui!” punctuate clean baseline winners. The felt concussion of competitive tennis  —   of racket thud, air hiss and    friction  —   is all over this match. The players are wearing white   emblazoned with a blanched photo of   Gasigwa, for whom the tournament is named. Last year, Gasigwa, 31, collapsed and died at Cercle Sportif while jogging around the soccer field. He was one of Rwanda’s most accomplished tennis players, having won the national tournaments of Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania. Habiyambere learned the game from Gasigwa and is his heir apparent. In 2013, at 13, Habiyambere won the    East African Junior Championships in Tanzania, dropping only two sets. Over the next months, he won matches at regional   tournaments. Then he reached the semifinals of the   African Junior Championships, narrowly losing to the eventual continental champion. His run caught the attention of the I. T. F. the organizer of the tournaments, the sport’s governing body and the institution most responsible for developing junior players in countries without serious tennis traditions or budgets. The I. T. F. awarded Habiyambere a scholarship to its training center in Morocco, and he was soon playing in junior tournaments across Europe, telling the Rwandan news media that a professional tennis career was his dream. “I want to be among the best tennis players this country will ever have,” he said. Tennis may be played worldwide, but excluding Antarctica, Africa is the only continent with a lone player among the top 50 men or women: Kevin Anderson, a white South African. Many of Anderson’s countrymen and women  —   all white  —   have excelled in elite tennis, including the former No. 3 Amanda Coetzer Wayne Ferreira Kevin Curren, Africa’s last Grand Slam singles finalist and Johan Kriek, who won    Australian Open titles in the 1980s. North Africans have also starred. The Moroccans Younes   and Hicham Arazi were   players who made deep runs in Grand Slam tournaments in the early 2000s. Ons Jabeur of Tunisia won the girls’ title at the French Open in 2011, and No. 53 Malek Jaziri of Tunisia will play at the United States Open this week. Technically, a North African has won Wimbledon: Jaroslav Drobny of Egypt in 1954. Czechoslovakian by birth, Drobny defected in 1949 and settled on Egyptian citizenship before securing British papers. But aside from South Africans,   Africa is deeply underrepresented in world tennis. Once ranked 74th, Yahiya Doumbia of Senegal won two ATP tournaments in France, in Lyon in 1988 and in Bordeaux in 1995. For most fans, Doumbia’s will be the only unrecognizable name on the list of those competitions’ champions, dropped in among John McEnroe, Pete Sampras, Ivan Lendl, Andy Roddick and Richard Gasquet. Nduka Odizor of Nigeria topped out at No. 52 in 1984, a year after he won his only ATP tournament. Odizor learned to play tennis in Lagos but was spotted there by a visiting University of Houston professor, who sponsored a move to Texas, where Odizor finished high school and became an   for Houston. Emigration from Africa to lands of greater tennis opportunity remains viable. The   black player from   Africa today is Takanyi Garanganga of Zimbabwe, which has its own history of successful white players. Garanganga benefited from Zimbabwe’s relatively strong junior program, but the country’s economic woes and interest from a United   Zimbabwean coach prompted his family to move to Atlanta when he was 13. Garanganga climbed the junior rankings, emerged as a top college prospect and declined scholarship offers to turn pro in 2009. Although once ranked as high as No. 288, Garanganga was 495th as of last week. The only other black African players in the men’s top 1, 000 are No. 930 Alexis Klegou of Benin, who grew up in France and attended Texas AM, and No. 988 Duncan Mugabe, a Ugandan who has played mostly in Africa. The   black African women are No. 551 Valeria Bhunu of Zimbabwe and No. 892 Lesedi Jacobs of Namibia. At Cercle Sportif, Habiyambere has little trouble with Havugimana, one of the few players within Rwanda’s borders capable of giving him a match. Habiyambere wins,     closing with a   winner down the line to break and a service game held at love. Three days later, I take the court for my weekly session with Habiyambere. He charges expatriates like me $6 for an hour’s lesson. It is the only income his family earns. One hot January several years ago, when I lived in Accra, Ghana, I boarded a minibus headed west to Winneba, home of Ghana’s National Sports College and site of the I. T. F. ’s West and Central African Junior Championships. I was playing tennis regularly with one of Ghana’s   juniors. As with Habiyambere, I paid him several dollars an hour to hit and, basically, to be badly beaten. In Winneba, a taxi dropped me at a semicircle campus of concrete basketball courts, concrete classroom buildings and concrete dormitories. Through these were the tennis courts, and while they were lined with concrete grandstands, the backstop fences were sturdy and the courts painted the fresh green and blue of professional tournaments. They were the first hardcourts without cracks that I had seen in Africa. I met Amine Ben Makhlouf, the director of the I. T. F. training center in Casablanca, Morocco. A Moroccan a few years past his playing prime, Ben Makhlouf was there to manage the tournament and scout promising players. I asked him if there was   talent in Africa. “Our feeling,” Ben Makhlouf said, “is if Africa can make it in football, why not tennis?” The   boys’ draw included a New     named William Bushamuka. He would eventually rank among the world’s top 200 juniors, train at IMG Academy in Florida and compete for the University of Kentucky, where today he ranks among the top collegians. Bushamuka did not win the tournament. Seydou Diallo did. Diallo was from sparsely populated Mali, its team   by a Peace Corps volunteer who estimated there were only 40 Malian children playing organized tennis. One of them  —   Diallo  —   beat Bushamuka twice, in the   stage and in the semifinals. The lanky Diallo possessed height that suggested a power game, but he relied instead on looping groundstrokes to pin opponents behind the baseline and wear them down with consistency. In both victories over Bushamuka and in the final against Nigeria’s best player, he dropped the opening set before his unassailable defense frustrated his opponents into impatience, errors and lost sets. For Ben Makhlouf, such evidence of African tennis promise abounds. When I spoke with him again this year, he cited the presence of Africans on American college teams and the success players have had with I. T. F. traveling teams. “We have seen that some of them who were part of the training center made good results by beating some of the top European players,” he said. Ben Makhlouf’s colleague Thierry Ntwali, a Rwandan who runs the I. T. F. ’s East Africa training center, told me, “It’s possible to get our best players in the top 50, top 20, in I. T. F. juniors rankings. ” Ntwali’s best evidence is Sada Nahimana, a    girl from Burundi. Nahimana has won continental championships three times, and excluding South Africans, she is the   junior from   Africa, at No. 176. “We feel that around the age of 17, she will be top 50,” Ntwali said. At Wimbledon this year, Serena Williams was asked if she was surprised that so few African women played on the world tour. “Yes,” she replied. Williams, who has conducted clinics on the continent, said she saw “so much talent. ” She added, “There has to be, one day, a player from Africa that can do really well. ” I sat with Habiyambere one morning at Cercle Sportif’s bar. He spoke imperfect English, a reflection of spotty schooling in Rwanda, which has spurned French. Although English became an official language after the 1994 genocide  —     exiles toppled the perpetrating government  —   it was not till 2009 that the country, a former Belgian colony, switched to English in schools. The result is a tennis club where only younger players and educated members possess any English, scores are called in French, and net chatter carries on in Kinyarwanda. Habiyambere was describing his rise from disciple of Gasigwa to I. T. F. prospect at the federation’s High Performance Center in Morocco. “I was thinking I would never go in Europe,” he said. “I went in Europe because of tennis. ” Habiyambere had proved too strong for the competition at the smaller East Africa I. T. F. center. The move to Morocco, where the Malian Diallo was also training, was intended to push Habiyambere up the federation’s Pyramid of Opportunity, the pinnacle of which is a   junior ranking, an achievement thought to indicate that a boy can mature into a   man. An important step is participation on travel teams because, Ben Makhlouf said, “the best way to improve is to play competitions. ” Habiyambere’s first European match, on his first trip out of Africa, was in France. “I was excited,” he said. “First match I was really scared. ” Habiyambere lost and listed the reasons: “changing weather,” “you’re thinking too much,” “my body was tight. ” But he settled down and won elsewhere in Europe. “The time you play more matches,” he said, “is the time you feel like you get match it’s normal. You feel like it’s practice. You feel like, I can do this I can do this. ” Still, Habiyambere did not win any tournaments on the tour. I asked if he thought the European players were simply better. “The difference was, they have more matches,” he said, adding, “For them, the tournaments and matches, they don’t get scared. ” One day last year at the Morocco center, Habiyambere collapsed during training. He recovered but fainted again days later. Habiyambere could not articulate a diagnosis, but I. T. F. coaches I spoke with suggested he was having seizures, an ailment the federation would not monitor. They sent Habiyambere home to Rwanda. Doctors in Rwanda found no medical problems. Habiyambere said he was assured that he could return to Morocco if he felt better. But since last August, he has played only at Cercle Sportif. Ntwali, of the I. T. F. told me that Habiyambere was welcome back but that the federation needed proof he was medically sound. Habiyambere’s coach at Cercle Sportif, Sylvain Rutikanga, insisted that Habiyambere was healthy and that returning to the I. T. F. was a matter of paying tuition or playing tournaments to revive his scholarship. Tuition was not something Ntwali had mentioned. Vagueness of diagnosis, conflicting stories, opacity of the way forward, authorities acting (or not) for the powerless  —   Habiyambere is in a limbo all too common for many young Africans. He is highly skilled in his discipline, but without the means to leverage it. Another thing makes it difficult for Habiyambere: His father died when he was very young, relatives were lost in the 1994 genocide, and his mother has back and leg problems so severe that Habiyambere says she cannot work. “I’m the one who tries to take care of her,” he said. For an East African tennis champion, for a    ranked among the world’s top 750 juniors, fainting at tennis practice is not just a setback. It might mean a life derailed. “Ernest can be a bon joueur”  —   a good player  —   Rutikanga said. In Rutikanga’s French, the phrase translates better as “someone who can make it. ” “He has everything he has everything,” Rutikanga said. “He has la force he has la tête”  —   the strength and the head. “He is in bon condition. Now, he trains all alone. Now, it hurts me. ” Rutikanga is considered by many the best teaching coach in Rwanda. At 43 and with   tournament experience, he can still play with Habiyambere or feed flawless balls to a diplomat. Rutikanga made clear something I have heard at clubs across the continent. In Africa, he said, “the players who play tennis, they are people who come from families who are not rich. ” Habiyambere is an example, but so is Rutikanga. He came from a poor family, but one that lived near Cercle Sportif. As a child, Rutikanga could not afford club membership  —   I pay $110 annually for unlimited court time  —   but he was captivated by the foreigners and wealthy Rwandans driving by his neighborhood to play tennis. There was a back door: play at the more welcoming Hotel Diplomat courts by day and work for tips as a Cercle Sportif ball boy by night. “All the players you see here,” Rutikanga said of Cercle Sportif, “first they worked as ball boys. ” When Rutikanga talks about “the players,” he is making a distinction between club members and the young men and women who can really hit. Those players almost exclusively emerge from the handful of ball boys who fetch netted serves and water the dusty clay, or from clinics that Cercle Sportif holds for neighborhood children. (The club, at the Rwanda Tennis Federation’s request, is more open to nonpaying children than in Rutikanga’s childhood days.) Thus, the tennis talent pool in Rwanda is tiny and impoverished. I brought this up with Ben Makhlouf, the I. T. F. center director. “How many players are getting the right training, are getting the right coaching, are getting the right competition?” he said. “Let’s be nice: We will find a hundred persons. But if you go, for example, to a city like Barcelona, and all the academies there, you will find 5, 000  —   only in Barcelona. ” Further, Africa’s elite talent is so scattered it lacks competition for itself  —   hence the I. T. F. strategy of congregating top African players and exposing them to European competition. “We don’t have enough players playing competition at such level compared to Europe,” Ben Makhlouf said. In the case of Habiyambere, Ntwali, of the I. T. F. said bluntly, “Rwanda does not produce enough competition for him. ” No one is more aware of this than Habiyambere. “Our coaches, they are good,” he said proudly of Cercle Sportif and Rwanda. “They are not very good, but they are good. But the thing, you can’t coach someone who is not playing tournaments. ” The value of competition, Habiyambere said, is not just being pushed to another level but also facing different styles of play. “You have some people who hit hard, who hit flat,” he said. “There are some who like to push the ball inside the court. They make you like running. You find some players who have a lot of spin. ” He added, “You play matches you feel comfortable you feel the confidence. ” The U. S. T. A. newsletter that caught my eye recently, about “bringing tennis to Africa,” was highlighting an American volunteer’s   clinic in Cameroon and donation of rackets. Used equipment and guest clinics might help address the quantity factor of African tennis, perhaps drawing a few more youngsters to the game. But when it comes to Africa’s dearth of   players, the “lack of resources” lament boils down to access to competition. Habiyambere never asks me for a new racket he asks me for a bus ticket to Nairobi for the Kenya Open. Eric Hagenimana, a Rwandan coaching at a New Mexico tennis club, and Garanganga, today’s top black player from Africa, do not harp on poverty when describing Africa’s tennis plight. Hagenimana, 31, posted a youth record that still stands as the Rwandan benchmark. He reached No. 102 as a junior and defeated a    Kevin Anderson. “I don’t think about resources to produce a good tennis player,” Hagenimana told me over a Skype call from Albuquerque. “Look at Serbia, Djokovic and other guys from there. It doesn’t matter where you start. ” But support  —   financial and otherwise  —   becomes critical when players are vying for ranking points and meager prize money on the   professional circuits, Hagenimana conceded. Tennis careers come not to winners of junior tournaments but to players who show up week in and week out at disparate tournaments, cobble victories together to secure higher rankings, and maintain the rigor year after year. The costs of these logistics pose a serious challenge even for American and European players, who at least have several   tournaments each month to choose from and often have backing from their families to keep the dream alive. Garanganga said those juniors also had the advantage of an accepted “blueprint for tournaments kids need to play by the time they are 16 if they decide to turn pro. ” But if you are from the steep dirt streets by Cercle Sportif, you may have had access only to the 23 boys’ I. T. F. tournaments and the 14 men’s Futures tournaments that were held across   Africa in 2015. And a   bus ticket to Nairobi amounts to months of wages for the average family airfare to North Africa, where tournaments are more frequent, can run $1, 000. Garanganga said African coaches, tennis federations and parents often had distorted perceptions of players’ options. “The reason why we have junior players with some skill they haven’t developed is because they don’t have the right guidance to transition into the professional career,” he said. A couple of months ago, Habiyambere showed me a spreadsheet prepared by a local coach. The cost of competing in two Futures tournaments in Egypt totaled $3, 000. What, Habiyambere asked, could I do? His question captured more than an unfathomable financial stratosphere. It captured the mechanics of a livelihood. Hagenimana and Garanganga are tennis pros, but so are Habiyambere and the players at Cercle Sportif. There, a member typically forms a relationship with a single   and the association runs deeper than lessons and hourly rates. The relatively negligible fee I pay to hit with a national champion is supplemented by an unspoken expectation that I will pay for many sessions in advance that I will bring gifts of racket string when I return from an American vacation that I will have cash on hand should there be a problem at home that I will not abandon my coach for another that I will help sponsor him to compete in tournaments. All this I do. The fate of the best tennis players in Rwanda, then, is closely tied to the largess of those with whom they play. Life as an I. T. F. darling ends age, stagnated skill and hardship preclude money tournaments not everyone can move to the United States, as Hagenimana did. Perhaps Habiyambere will find a way back to an I. T. F. center. Perhaps a rich benefactor will sponsor him for a tennis academy abroad. Maybe Habiyambere is destined to remain at Cercle Sportif and become the next generation’s Sylvain Rutikanga. “My career is good,” Rutikanga told me. “I have a lot of clients. ” He is indeed always on the court when I am at Cercle Sportif. But there are not enough members and expats to sustain the dozen or so other players I know. What if Habiyambere never takes the next step? And what about all the other coaches? Rutikanga said each would give lessons “until he dies. ” Rutikanga added: “He will give lessons, play competitions. He will continue if he doesn’t have a problem  —   until he isn’t capable of playing. ” Across the continent, ever since I saw that newspaper photo of an Ivorian playing tennis during my Peace Corps days, I have asked African players and coaches whether a black player from   Africa will reach the top 100 in the next 10 years. Rutikanga was skeptical, saying, “We don’t have the players. ” Garanganga said he thought “the level of top African juniors participating internationally has dropped. ” And Hagenimana strained to be positive. “Top 200, maybe it can happen,” he said. “Top 100? I can never say no. ” But Ben Makhlouf and Ntwali of the I. T. F. want to believe. Ntwali, who has seen Nahimana, the Burundian teenager, scale the junior rankings, was the most optimistic. “WTA: Yes, 100 percent,” Ntwali said. “We will see some black girls coming up. For men, within five years we can get someone close to 200. ” There are days I believe, too. Especially when Habiyambere passes me with brutally paced, angled and dipped shots. Or when Rutikanga demonstrates a slight open racket face for a soft volley, the kind of instruction I would pay $75 an hour for in the United States. Then there are the matches on the Cercle Sportif clay. I recall how Habiyambere won the Gasigwa Memorial Tournament. He torqued forehands with such force that the resulting yellow arc appeared harshly parabolic. He skipped confidently beneath overheads. When his opponent stretched as if to suggest a tight back was slowing him down, he gazed with patient silence and remained merciless. On changeovers he organized water bottles with a deliberation worthy of Rafael Nadal and sat with the posture and flat feet of Andy Murray. When he won, Habiyambere shook hands with his opponent and the umpire. Then he turned to the grandstand and softly clapped his hand against his racket like Roger Federer.