A man suspected of stabbing two nuns to death in their rural Mississippi home confessed to the killings on Saturday, according to the police. Rodney Earl Sanders, 46, was arrested on Friday and charged with two counts of capital murder in connection with the deaths of Sister Margaret M. Held and Sister Paula J. Merrill, 68, whose bodies were discovered on Thursday at their shared home in Durant, a town of 3, 000 people that had gone years without a murder. “Sanders was developed as a person of interest early on in the investigation,” Lt. Colonel Jimmy Jordan, the director of the state’s Bureau of Investigation, said in a statement. Mr. Sanders has a history with the police. In 1986 he served six years in prison for an armed robbery in Mississippi, and last year he was convicted of a felony D. U. I. He had been on probation since September, Grace Simmons Fisher, a spokeswoman for the Mississippi Department of Corrections, said. An officer went the women’s home around 10 a. m. on Thursday for a wellness check after they did not report for work at the Lexington Medical Clinic, near Durant. The door to the   home was open, and the officer found the bodies inside. The authorities said they believed Mr. Sanders stole the victims’ car, a blue Toyota Corolla, before abandoning it about a mile away in Holmes County, which is about 65 miles north of Jackson, the state capital. Mr. Sanders, from Kosciusko, Miss. lived about 30 miles from where the killings occurred. Sister Paula was from the Sisters of Charity of Nazareth, based in Kentucky. Sister Margaret was from the School Sisters of St. Francis, in Milwaukee, which said it thanked local and state law enforcement but had many unanswered questions. “There is still much we do not know about the suspect and the circumstances that led to this brutal and senseless crime,” the order said in a statement. Willie March, the Holmes County sheriff, said late Saturday night that Mr. Sanders had confessed after an extensive interrogation “We don’t have a motive yet,” Sheriff March said.