An American college student sentenced by North Korea to 15 years of hard labor on charges that he tried to steal a political poster has been granted only one consular visit in nearly six months, the State Department said Tuesday. The prisoner, Otto F. Warmbier of Cincinnati, a    honors student at the University of Virginia, has been held in North Korea since January. He was seized by North Korean security officials on the day he was to depart the country at the end of an organized tour. Mr. Warmbier’s incarceration, against the backdrop of North Korea’s growing isolation over the country’s nuclear and missile tests, is widely viewed as tool of leverage by the North Korean authorities against the United States. Over the past several years, North Korea has periodically seized roughly a dozen Americans who have visited the country, which has considered the United States its most dangerous enemy since the   Korean War. Most of the Americans have either been expelled or eventually released. Mr. Warmbier was shown on North Korean television tearfully apologizing for the attempted theft of a political propaganda poster in his hotel in Pyongyang, the capital, a seemingly minor offense that the government regarded as a major crime. In   he was punished with a   term in the North Korean penal system, angering the United States government and drawing rebukes elsewhere for what was seen as a disproportionately harsh sentence. People in contact with the Warmbier family, which has declined to give interviews, said Mr. Warmbier had received only one consular visit, in March, from the embassy of Sweden, which looks after American interests in North Korea. The State Department spokesman, John Kirby, confirmed that information on Tuesday. “A representative from the Swedish Embassy last visited Mr. Warmbier on March 2, 2016,” Mr. Kirby said in a statement. Despite requests by the Swedish Embassy, he said, the North Korean government “still routinely delays or denies consular access to U. S. citizens. ” It is considered unusual for prisoners to get only one consular visit over such a long period. The State Department has warned Americans not to travel to North Korea because of the risk of arbitrary arrest. But that has not dissuaded people curious about the country’s hermetic society and the population’s fealty to the Kim family, which has ruled North Korea since its founding. Mr. Warmbier traveled there with Young Pioneer Tours, a   group that specializes in visits to North Korea. There has been no indication from the North Korean authorities of when they might be prepared to release Mr. Warmbier. He received the harshest punishment of any American detained there since November 2012, when Kenneth Bae, an American missionary of Korean descent, was sentenced to 15 years of hard labor. Mr. Bae and another imprisoned American, Matthew Todd Miller, were freed by the North Koreans in November 2014 during a visit to North Korea by James R. Clapper Jr. the Obama administration’s national intelligence director, who brought them home aboard his plane after secret negotiations.