He did not mock. He did not scold. He did not blunder. Instead when Donald J. Trump showed up for a hastily assembled statelike visit at the presidential palace in Mexico City on Wednesday, he managed to accomplish something that he had failed to do throughout the campaign: communicate his provocative political ideas with something resembling diplomacy. Standing beneath a Mexican flag, Mr. Trump lamented the crimes committed by immigrants, but without his usually harsh, insulting and alarmist language. He described undocumented Mexican immigrants, but not in the ugly, racially charged ways he has in the past. And he talked about building a wall on America’s southern border, but in newly measured, less belligerent terms. “We recognize and respect the right of either country to build a physical barrier,” he said, before adding, almost sheepishly, “a wall. ” It was Trumpism in an unfamiliar but somehow still recognizable form: shorn of its most offensive elements but faithful to its essential message. In many ways, it was Mr. Trump’s most successful performance of the summer, after weeks of agonizing gaffes, missed opportunities and flagging poll numbers. Of course, as with so much surrounding Mr. Trump, the day was immediately dogged by questions of candor. Mexico’s president, Enrique Peña Nieto, claimed that in their meeting he had told Mr. Trump his country would never pay for the wall, while Mr. Trump declared that the two men had never touched on who would shoulder the cost of its construction. It was not clear whether the discrepancy was the result of the language barrier or Mr. Trump’s tendency to spin the facts in his favor. Still, by the end of Mr. Trump’s   news conference beside Mr. Peña Nieto, it was clear that despite his struggling campaign, the Republican nominee retains a showman’s instincts. Breaking protocol, Mr. Trump, a guest in the home of a foreign president, called on reporters himself, seemingly ignoring the head of state standing a few feet to his right. “Say it!” Mr. Trump declared as he pointed at reporters he knew from the United States. “Yes?” he called to another journalist. When an ABC reporter asked both men about the hurtful words that Mr. Trump had used in the past to describe Mexico, the candidate did not bother to wait for the president to speak first. It might have been Mexican soil, but the stage was still Mr. Trump’s. “We’ll, I’ll start,” he said. He leaned in and offered his reply. Still, at times, especially during the starch exchange of formal statements, Mr. Trump seemed out of his element. As Mr. Peña Nieto spoke at length, Mr. Trump appeared uncomfortable and almost sullen, swiveling slightly side to side, crossing his arms and looking down, rather than at the president. He seemed incapable of maintaining the polite expression of interest that is customary for such occasions. Mr. Trump occasionally nodded as his translator whispered in his ear as Mr. Peña Nieto delivered his prepared remarks in Spanish. (Mr. Trump does not speak Spanish.) The tableau itself was startling: Mr. Trump, who has mercilessly maligned Mexico, standing inside the Mexican’s president’s home surrounded by the pomp and ceremony of a formal summit meeting. The grand house sits amid open fields, trees, foliage and a large complex of buildings that drown out noise from the surrounding city. An air of improbability hovered over Mr. Trump’s entire trip to Mexico. Much of the country was astonished that the New York   developer had pounced on a seemingly perfunctory invitation from its president. “I think it’s unlikely that the Mexican government really expected Donald Trump to take them up on this invitation,” said Christopher Wilson, the deputy director of the Mexico Institute at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. But take up the invitation Mr. Trump did. It is the kind of dramatic,   development and plot twist that Mr. Trump relishes. It was Mr. Trump, after all, who theatrically boycotted an all but mandatory Republican presidential debate in Iowa in January, commandeering an auditorium a few blocks away to put on a   show taunting his rivals. “Where’s Trump?” he asked, mischievously imitating the rest of the Republican presidential field across town. Despite predictions that his absence would prove disastrous, he finished second in the state’s caucuses and continued to roll up big victories. In the hours before Mr. Trump landed in Mexico, there were similar predictions of doom. And with reason. This was the same man who, after Britain voted to leave the European Union, bragged on his golf course in Scotland that the rupture would be good for business there. In Mexico, his rougher edges seemed sanded down as he offered flattery and solicitousness in place of crudeness and brickbats. The   he knew, he said, “were beyond reproach. ” He described generations of their   families as “amazing people. ” Even as Mr. Peña Nieto seemed to subtly criticize him  —   by reminding Mr. Trump that illegal immigration had fallen significantly over the past decade and vigorously defending the North American Free Trade Agreement  —   Mr. Trump suppressed any urge to trade fire. Instead, he looked over at the president of a country he has denounced for over a year and told him what an honor it was to meet him. “I call you a friend,” Mr. Trump told Mr. Peña Nieto.