We could talk about cooking as a function of chemistry and physics. Better to talk about elbow grease. Specifically, a physical theory of everyday cooking, The   Continuum. The premise is simple: You start with food, apply a variable equation of time and energy  —   guided perhaps, by a recipe  —   and sooner or later you have a meal. To eat sooner, you will have to expend more of your own energy if you’re willing to wait, then you have the luxury of letting heat serve as the primary energy, transforming the raw ingredients with minimal input from you. According to this hypothesis, every dish can be plotted along a single X axis, measured by Time at one end and Work at the other. If you wanted to go for fancier science, put time on the X axis and a work on the Y and plot recipes in quadrants. (Meanwhile, I’ll make a sandwich.) The two recipes that follow demonstrate how you can use the continuum to increase your kitchen efficiency. The first, a   pork and vegetable braise, requires about 3 hours of time and 5 minutes of work. The second, a fast version of spaghetti and meatballs with red gravy, provides the counterpoint. It’s ready in less than 30 minutes, but you’ll be chopping, stirring and monitoring heat and doneness  —   actively working  —   from start to finish. This is the crux of the hypothesis: To get the biggest return on your investment, whether in time or work, you need to cook toward the extremes of the continuum. Venturing toward the center, where recipes require both time and work in near equal measure, is also fine, especially if you see cooking as an art form or creative outlet that brings you relaxation and pleasure, or in times of celebration or insanity, when you throw yourself into a food project that gives you a sense of accomplishment. But for everyday    fare, you must be more efficient. Otherwise you’ll get frustrated and find your food elsewhere. My job is to lure people into the kitchen, preferably with recipes. In these examples, I’ve rolled the preparation of ingredients into the steps so that you can get an accurate portrayal of the work involved. The modern convention in recipe writing is to incorporate the preparations into the ingredient list. (“1 large onion, chopped 2 garlic cloves, minced 1 butternut squash, peeled, seeded and cut into   cubes. ”) Many cooks go so far as to suggest you gather and prepare all the ingredients in advance before proceeding with the actual directions. I understand and can execute this approach to a recipe, but I largely ignore it in the privacy of my own kitchen. And I know others do the same, opting instead to merge preparation and cooking, so that executing the various tasks ebb and flow with the natural rhythms of the process. At home, instead of first getting everything in its place  —   known as mise en place, a protocol that makes perfect sense for restaurant chefs  —   you chop the onions while the pan heats, mince the garlic while the onions sizzle and break down the squash in the time it takes the aromatics to soften. Presto. That one bit of multitasking probably saved you 7 minutes. And your work made the most efficient use of time. The spaghetti and meatballs recipe demonstrates   cooking. Throw yourself immediately into the directions and you’ll be sitting at the table twirling pasta in less than a  . You’ll be busy, but not frantic, the whole time, and rewarded with the satisfaction that you made every second count. On the other side of the time axis, there’s braised pork with cabbage and sauerkraut, an easy path to a kind of choucroute garnie. Spend a few minutes making broad strokes with a sharp knife and layer the ingredients in a deep roasting pan. Then walk away for more than 2 hours. Pass through the kitchen again to uncover the pan and turn the oven up, then go back to your business. You’ve just spent a productive 3 or so hours cooking and doing something else. Talk about efficient. With only a little forethought, you can steer many recipes toward the extremes of the   Continuum. Start by transferring the work hidden in the ingredient list  —   the chopping of vegetables and so forth  —   into the steps of the recipe. This is relatively easy: Scan the directions for chunks of time when no other work is happening. Like “Cook, stirring occasionally until brown all over, 3 to 5 minutes. ” Then use that time to prepare for what comes next. Another strategy is to let time do the work, as in the choucroute. This is what makes slow cookers so popular. Leave food in big chunks, don’t   before braising or stewing, marinate vegetables instead of cooking them and the one tip I give all the time: Prepare big batches of key components like beans, whole grains or plainly cooked produce and meat. Once you start to wean yourself from the recipe, or at least take better control of it, you’ll be a better cook.