NOGALES, Ariz.  —   On an embankment that runs along a towering steel fence separating this border town from its Mexican sister city, a patch of new concrete with a date carved into it stands out, marking the exit of a tunnel Border Patrol agents sealed in May. Dozens more like it snake around town, part of a vast underground network that Mexican drug cartels have used for years to funnel hundreds of pounds of illicit drugs into the United States. When Border Patrol agents find the tunnels, they dump concrete to seal them and stamp them with the date that they are shut down. But they struggle to stay ahead of the digging. Last Friday, the Border Patrol, in a joint operation with Mexican authorities, discovered an unfinished tunnel that started in a Mexican cemetery. “The clock is ticking as soon as they complete a tunnel,” said Kevin Hecht, a Border Patrol tunneling expert. “They know that we will eventually find them. But if even one load gets through before we find it, they consider it a success. ” While Donald J. Trump, the Republican presidential nominee, has made building a wall at the border a central element of his campaign, the fence here that reaches up to 30 feet has done little to deter enterprising drug smugglers. It has simply helped push them underground. Border Patrol agents cannot hear smugglers digging and do not know how many tunnels there are, a gap in border security that homeland security experts say renders talk of a wall moot. “The Border Patrol has done an incredible job, given its resources,” said Gen. Barry R. McCaffrey, the White House drug policy director in the Clinton administration. “But it would be a stretch to say that the border and border communities are secure when the agency lacks a   ability to detect   tunnels. No wall is going to fix that. ” During his immigration speech Wednesday in Arizona, Mr. Trump said his border security plan would use the best technology, including   and   sensors to “find and dislocate tunnels and keep out criminal cartels. ” But no technology exists to reliably detect the tunnels, and experts say it may be years before such a system is developed. Since the first drug tunnel was discovered in 1990 in Douglas, Ariz. border officials say they have found nearly 200 more along the nearly   Southwest border, mostly in Arizona and California. Tunnels are so numerous in the Nogales area that Border Patrol agents described the ground underneath the city as “Swiss cheese. ” Mr. Hecht said smugglers dig tunnels mostly into the drainage system shared by the two cities. Others are burrowed into the basements of homes on the American side from buildings in Mexico. One tunnel was dug under a heavily guarded port of entry. Technological advances such as ground radar to detect movement, hundreds of   cameras with   lenses and drones flying overhead have drastically transformed border security. These tools have helped federal investigators track and arrest hundreds of smuggling suspects, and seize tons of marijuana, methamphetamines and cocaine.   robots help agents explore tunnels that are too risky for humans to enter. The American government has poured hundreds of millions of dollars into research in hopes of finding a way to detect tunnels, but most of these efforts have ended in disappointment. Most recently, the Science and Technology Directorate of the Department of Homeland Security concluded that none of the current methods used to detect underground tunnels were “necessarily suited to Border Patrol agents’ operational needs. ” In the absence of technology to detect tunnels, Border Patrol officials have worked with Mexican authorities to develop informants and patrol the border, including water and sewerage infrastructure, looking for suspicious activity. About half of the Border Patrol agents here have been trained to work underground. “But you don’t know what you don’t know,” said R. Gil Kerlikowske, the United States Customs and Border Protection commissioner, who conceded that many more tunnels might exist. Part of the problem in detecting tunnels, say experts like Paul Bauman, a Canadian geophysicist, is the ground itself. Finding what is under the surface is not as simple as shooting radar or electromagnetic waves into the ground, he said. With underground cracks, water tables, tree roots and caves, it is hard to tell what is and is not a tunnel, he said. Mr. Bauman, who has worked with the Israel Defense Forces in their efforts to find tunnels, said most of the devices used for tunnel detection were developed for industries to find oil or mineral deposits, not drug tunnels. Carey M. Rappaport, a professor of electrical and computer engineering at Northeastern University in Boston, said the depth of many tunnels also posed a technological challenge. Some can be as deep as 90 feet, beyond the reach of most   devices and sensors. “Soil is very good at keeping secrets,” said Mr. Rappaport, who has also worked with the United States and Israeli governments on   methods. In the 2016 defense authorization bill, Congress provided about $120 million for a joint Defense Department and Israel Defense Forces   project. Israel is among several nations, including Egypt, Jordan and South Korea, that have had major problems with hostile groups using tunnels to stage attacks. American officials hope the technology developed in Israel can aid efforts on the Mexican border. A spokeswoman for the Israeli Defense Ministry declined to comment. The Science and Technology Directorate at Homeland Security is also spending several million dollars a year to fund   research. In San Diego, a task force of agents from Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Homeland Security Investigations, the Border Patrol and the Drug Enforcement Administration has tried a variety of technologies to detect tunnels, much like their colleagues in Nogales have. One of the tools is a   machine that looks like a large lawn mower. The device, which is intended to locate underground utility lines and flaws in road construction, shoots radar waves about 10 feet into the ground. A screen displays various shades that identify anomalies underground that could be tunnels. But that is often not deep enough. “We’ve never found a tunnel using them,” said David Shaw, a special agent in charge of Homeland Security Investigations in San Diego. Mr. Shaw said the task force relied mainly on   law enforcement techniques, such as cultivating informants in cartels or getting business owners and residents to report suspicious activities. That’s how the most recent tunnel in San Diego was discovered in April. Its exit was in a   area in the heavily industrial Otay Mesa warehouse district, about 500 yards from the border. According to Wendi Lee, a Border Patrol agent, business owners across the street alerted the agency to what they said was suspicious activity. The tunnel, hidden under a trash bin, was about 800 yards long. The authorities seized about 2, 200 pounds of cocaine and 14, 000 pounds of marijuana. The tunnel was one of about a   discovered in the area in recent years. “Smugglers keep digging them because the tunnels work,” Mr. Shaw said. Still, some law enforcement officials say their efforts appear to be having an effect. Data from Homeland Security shows that fewer tunnels have been discovered in recent years. However, Mr. Hecht of the Border Patrol in Nogales said the number of tunnels discovered should not be used to measure success. “For every tunnel we find, we feel they’re building another one somewhere, and they might get more creative in concealing it,” he said. “Next year, I could find 10. Until there is some device on the market to help us accurately detect them, we just won’t know. ”