With calls to end   sanctuary cities, create a deportation task force and maintain “zero tolerance for criminal aliens,” Donald J. Trump laid out a   immigration plan on Wednesday in Phoenix that reverted to the tough, uncompromising talk on the issue that has powered his appeal to his strongest supporters. While he is no longer talking about immediately deporting the estimated 11 million people in the United States illegally, he also distanced himself from any notion that they could gain legal status anytime soon. “There will be no amnesty,” Mr. Trump said with renewed determination. A close inspection of Mr. Trump’s new immigration plans reveals that some are more workable than others, and some are not too different from President Obama’s policies. But most would significantly expand and accelerate current enforcement practices. Mr. Trump promised to achieve the whole package, including the deportations of more than two million immigrants, in “a matter of months,” a time frame that seemed more rhetorical than realistic. Mr. Trump said his main focus would be on swiftly deporting immigrants with criminal records. “Day 1, my first hour in office, those people are gone,” he said. “You can call it whatever the hell you want,” he added. “They’re gone. ” As president, he said, he would issue an order immediately empowering enforcement agencies to be aggressive in hunting down immigrants with criminal records and speeding their deportation. He said that more than two million undocumented immigrants had some kind of criminal record and would be pursued for deportation. In some ways, Mr. Trump’s proposal is not radically different from the current policy of the Obama administration. In November 2014, President Obama established new priorities for foreigners who should be deported. The highest priority is on removing immigrants who pose security threats, gang members and convicted felons. Mr. Obama has said his approach is to deport “felons, not families. ” In the past two years, however, the number of criminals deported has fallen from a peak of 199, 000 in 2013. It dropped to 168, 000 in 2014 and even fewer last year, according to an analysis of official figures by the Pew Research Center. One big difference between Mr. Trump’s proposal and current policy is that the Obama administration has told enforcement agents to use discretion and avoid deporting undocumented immigrants with families in the country who committed no crimes or minor offenses like traffic violations. Mr. Trump said he would cancel any programs based on Mr. Obama’s discretionary policies, and he appears to be far more willing to deport people who have committed less serious crimes. Another large difference is the speed and sweep of the deportation drive Mr. Trump proposes. He suggested he would find ways to deport many immigrants with new, expedited procedures. Immigration lawyers said it is within the president’s authority to set aside many   protections to order wide sweeps and accelerated removals. “Our immigration laws are set up to do mass deportation,” said Benjamin Johnson, executive director of the American Immigration Lawyers Association. “They are rigid and full of zero tolerance, and there is not a lot of fairness, humanity or due process built in,” said Mr. Johnson, who added that he does not support Mr. Trump’s plans. But it is not clear how Mr. Trump arrived at the figure of two million immigrants with criminal records. According to the immigration enforcement agency, about 176, 000 immigrants at large in the country have been convicted of crimes and ordered deported by judges. To reach two million, he appears to have included hundreds of thousands of immigrants who are longtime residents with minor offenses. In some cases,   criminals have not been deported because the countries they came from  —   notably China  —   have refused to take them back. Mr. Trump said he would swiftly sanction countries that decline to receive criminal deportees. Mr. Trump added new detail to the idea of a special “deportation force” to carry out his plans. He once suggested that this force would be like the military units that deported more than a million immigrants, mostly Mexicans, during Operation Wetback in 1954. Mr. Trump has previously spoken with admiration of President Eisenhower for his   of that blitz. Mr. Trump clarified that his primary plan is to add more agents to existing forces, including hiring an additional 5, 000 for the Border Patrol and tripling Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s staff of deportation officers. To be consistent with his earlier promise, Mr. Trump said he would create a task force within the enforcement agency to focus on the   cases of immigrants who have committed heinous crimes. Mr. Trump said he would cancel federal funding for cities that have curtailed their cooperation with federal immigration authorities. He did not say which funding he meant. According to Immigration and Customs Enforcement, there are about 300 cities and towns in the United States that critics like Mr. Trump  —   as well as some supporters of the practice  —   have labeled “sanctuary cities. ” Those are places where the local authorities have decided not to cooperate with requests from federal agents to hold immigrants in custody. In most cases, local police forces or governments decided not to assist federal agents because they were concerned that cooperation would erode trust with immigrant communities they considered vital to police efforts to fight crime. Among those places are Denver, New Haven, New York and many counties in California. Mr. Trump pointed to several instances in which the failure of the local police to detain an immigrant who was a criminal had tragic results. He mentioned the case of Kathryn Steinle, who was shot to death on a pier in San Francisco by a Mexican man who had been deported several times but returned to the country and was released by the sheriff. Since 2014, the Obama administration has worked to court cities with sanctuary policies and bring them back to a cooperative relationship with immigration agents. Los Angeles is one city that has renewed its cooperation with the administration. Mr. Trump’s plan would be far more coercive. While there had been speculation recently that Mr. Trump might be softening on legalization, he made it clear in Phoenix that his line is as hard as ever. He said there was “one route and one route only” for immigrants in the country illegally: “to return home and apply for   like everybody else. ” This   option seemed to echo a similar idea by Mitt Romney, the onetime governor of Massachusetts, when he was the Republican nominee in 2012. In practice, immigrants who depart could face years of uncertain waiting outside the country. Mr. Trump said his main purpose would be to send a clear message that “you cannot obtain legal status or become a citizen of the United States by illegally entering our country. ” But Mr. Trump said he would first work with Congress to change the immigration system to create new, more rigorous vetting to reduce immigration and determine that immigrants who come here are people who “love us. ” Given the recent gridlock in Congress, it could take years for an ambitious overhaul. Mr. Trump’s very first promise in his remarks on Wednesday night was a reiteration of his plan for a “great wall along the southern border. ” The Mexican president, Enrique Peña Nieto, said that in their meeting in Mexico City on Wednesday afternoon, he told Mr. Trump that his country would not pay for the wall. But that did not move Mr. Trump, who said on Wednesday night, to great cheers from the Phoenix audience, that “Mexico will pay for the wall. ” As was previously reported, that kind of border defense would be a major logistical challenge and extremely expensive for whoever pays the bill.