At the beginning of every month, subscription streaming services like Netflix, Amazon Prime, Hulu and HBO Now add a new batch of movies and TV shows to their libraries. Some of those movies and TV shows are bad. Some are good. Below is a list of the good, broken down by service. Everything mentioned is available to stream starting today, Sept. 1, unless otherwise indicated. To receive this information in your email inbox every month, subscribe to Watching, a   newsletter that sifts through the overwhelming number of movies and TV shows, directs you to the best ones and tells you where you can watch them. For examples of what those newsletters look like, head on over here. Jaws: Come on now, it’s “Jaws. ” Raiders!: The Story of the Greatest Fan Film Ever Made: (Sept. 16) Over the course of seven years in the 1980s, three Mississippi kids filmed a remake of “Raiders of the Lost Ark. ” Every shot, every scene  —   except for one. This light documentary tells the story of the film, the friends who made it and how they regrouped decades later to shoot the film’s explosive airplane fight. Zootopia (Sept. 20): One of the year’s biggest   hits, this Disney animated film layers a light mystery on top of a world in which predators and prey live side by side. Some have seen it as a fairly obvious message movie, but all can agree that it has one of filmed entertainment’s greatest D. M. V. scenes. (A small category, to be sure.) Also recommended: “Man on Wire,” “Saving Private Ryan,” “Top Gun,” “The Imitation Game” (Sept. 28). Recent TV recommendations: “Galavant,” Seasons   (Sept. 7) “Supergirl,” Season 1 (Sept. 10) “The Walking Dead,” Season 6 (Sept. 15) “Luther,” Season 4 (Sept. 17) “Penny Dreadful,” Season 3 (Sept. 17) “Call the Midwife,” Season 5 (Sept. 19) “Longmire,” Season 5 (Sept. 23) “Portlandia,” Season 6 (Sept. 24). The Others: Nicole Kidman stars as a mother caring for her two kids on the lonely British isle of Jersey while her husband is off fighting in World War II. The family members suspect their house might be haunted. “The Others” will appeal to those who like Gothic horror, ghost stories and horror films that don’t overly rely on cheap jump scares. The Talented Mr. Ripley: These actors in their youth  —   Gwyneth Paltrow, Matt Damon, Jude Law, Philip Seymour Hoffman and Cate Blanchett. Beautiful clothes, beautiful Italian locales. Set in the 1950s. Murder. A sophisticated thriller for adults. Roman Holiday: Audrey Hepburn in her youth. Beautiful clothes, beautiful Roman locales. Filmed in the 1950s. No murder. A sophisticated romantic drama. Paranormal Activity: The Ghost Dimension (Sept 3): O. K. look, I’m not going to tell you this is a good movie. But if you are a completist and have seen the previous films in this series (including “Paranormal Activity: The Marked Ones” a. k. a. “Paranormal Activity: Latino Edition”) just get it over with and watch this one already. The Beatles: Eight Days a Week  —   The Touring Years (Sept. 17): I’ve not seen this documentary yet, but it’s directed by Ron Howard. I like the Beatles, maybe you like the Beatles. So, let’s watch. Sicario (Sept. 23): Starring Josh Brolin, Benicio Del Toro and Emily Blunt, this is a grim thriller about the drug war along the United   border. The film is less action packed than it is moody, tense and visually striking (Listen to this track from the score for a taste of the film’s feel.) Also recommended: “1984,” “American Psycho,” “Dirty Rotten Scoundrels,” “Eight Men Out,” “The French Lieutenant’s Woman,” “Get Shorty,” “Heaven’s Gate,” “Invasion of the Body Snatchers,” “Leaving Las Vegas,” “The Purple Rose of Cairo,” “Red Dawn,” “The Secret of N. I. M. H. ” Of note  —   On Sept. 18, the following CW shows will be leaving Hulu: “The 100,” “Arrow,” “Beauty and the Beast,” “Containment,” “Crazy ” “DC’s Legends of Tomorrow,” “The Flash,” “iZombie,” “Jane the Virgin,” “The Originals,” “Reign,” “Supernatural,” “The Vampire Diaries. ” Man on Wire: When the elfin French tightrope walker Philippe Petit strung a wire between the twin towers of the World Trade Center in 1974 and strolled back and forth, it was a feat both inspirational and  . But, as portrayed in this 2008 film, getting to that point was like planning and orchestrating a great heist. A genuinely exciting documentary. The Witch (Sept. 17): In   Massachusetts, a family exiled from a local community tries to make a go of it on the edge of a forest. But misery befalls them. Is a witch to blame? (Probably. The movie’s called “The Witch. ”) One of the best horror movies of the year, this should nonetheless be watched only if you’re patient and adventurous. It’s slow and everyone speaks in   English, so unless you have the subtitles on, you’ll miss a third of what is being said. It’s a film full of more dread than frights. Jiro Dreams of Sushi (Sept. 19): A beautiful documentary about an octogenarian chef making some of the best sushi in the world in a three star Michelin restaurant located in a Tokyo subway station. David Gelb, creator of Netflix’s “Chef’s Table,” directed this film, which sometimes feels like a prequel to that series  —   both are full of classical music and   cinematography. Also recommended: “1984,” “Apollo 13,” “Bronson,” “Caddyshack,” “Eight Men Out,” “Full Metal Jacket,” “Good Will Hunting,” “Heaven’s Gate,” “Interview With a Vampire,” “Roman Holiday,” “The Secret of N. I. M. H.,” “Paranormal Activity: The Ghost Dimension” (Sept. 3) “Sicario” (Sept. 23). Ghost World: Is this the most underrated comic book movie? (Next to “The Rocketeer” or “Dredd? ”) Based on the cartoonist Daniel Clowes’s 1990s alternative comics, “Ghost World” stars a young Scarlett Johansson and a  ”American Beauty” Thora Birch as two acerbic teenagers who spend the summer after high school graduation floating around town and mocking everything around them. Steve Buscemi plays the older man who, also feeling like an outcast, becomes their friend. Children of Men: This dark   thriller imagines a future in which humanity has lost the ability to bear children. As one of the few stable nations left on the planet, Britain has enacted strict   laws and is flooded with refugees. Theo (Clive Owen) comes across what may be the first pregnant woman in almost 20 years and must transport her to safety. Like they did in “Gravity,” (though sans  ) the director Alfonso Cuarón and the cinematographer Emmanuel Lubezki construct a handful of tense sequences. The Revenant (Sept. 17) and Steve Jobs (Sept. 24): These movies came out less than a year ago and one of them won a few Academy Awards. You know about them and you know whether or not you want to see them. Both are HBO premieres, so they’ll begin streaming on HBO GO and HBO Now on their respective Saturday nights. Also recommended: “300,” “Michael Clayton,” “Rushmore,” “The Great Muppet Caper,” “The English Patient” (Sept. 2). Sign up for the Watching newsletter to get expert film and TV recommendations like this straight to your inbox. 