Good morning. Welcome to California Today, a morning update on the  stories that matter to Californians (and anyone else interested in the state). California Today will also rely on, and amplify, your voices. Tell us about the issues that matter to you  —   and what you’d like to see: CAtoday@nytimes. com.  Want to receive California Today by email? Sign up. Let’s get to it. I just moved back to California after a long exile on the East Coast. I’m a   Californian  —   born outside Sacramento, where lawmakers come and go, and raised in San Juan Capistrano, where swallows do the same. I wanted to dive right in. So I’ve been asking as many people as possible: What should California Today be paying attention to? Five answers that stood out: • We hear a lot, rightly, about drought and wildfires, but Californians should also be alarmed about another threat, said Steven Hackett, a Humboldt State economist who has focused on natural resources. The Pacific has been soaking up enormous amounts of carbon dioxide from human emissions, a process known as ocean acidification. Professor Hackett said, if left unchecked, it could set off “tremendous cascading effects,” devastating California’s marine ecosystems. “There are a lot of questions about, ‘What can we do about that? ’” he said. • Specialists see no end in sight to California’s housing shortage, which promises to worsen homelessness and fights over gentrification. Lateefah Simon, a Bay Area activist, said we should be talking more about another of its effects: the punishing commutes that   people face as they are priced out of urban centers. With spotty public transportation, and rising fares, they endure hourslong trips into San Francisco and other cities. “Infrastructure is not a sexy thing for young millennials. It’s not something you talk about everyday,” said Ms. Simon, who is running for a seat on BART’s board of directors. “We need to change that. ” • Carson Bruno, a fellow at Stanford’s Hoover Institution, warned that unless a solution appears to the housing crisis, which he blamed in part on the misuse of environmental law, Bay Area businesses would begin to flee the state. “California faces a lot of challenges,” he said. “But this one has the potential to eliminate the California dream entirely. ” • Camille Rose Garcia, an artist in Northern California, talked about a   of the gallery scenes of San Francisco and Los Angeles. The spread of digital culture has led to “a circumventing of the galleries that is making some of them irrelevant,” Ms. Garcia said. The shift can be empowering for artists, especially younger ones, who increasingly connect with buyers directly online and through social media. “There is no more of the gallery holding the golden key to the kingdom,” she said. • Finally, Mona Field, a political scientist in Los Angeles, talked about another   this one on the near horizon. Californians are facing a November ballot with, count them, 17 measures. To name a couple: marijuana legalization and the repeal of the death penalty. “It’s preposterous that they are all on one ballot,” she said, suggesting that California Today do a series that analyzes each proposition. Challenge accepted, Ms. Field. (Stay tuned.) • “Amazing,” “” “riveting. ” That’s how readers are reacting to “Framed,” a   true crime saga involving a PTA mother in Irvine. [Los Angeles Times] • In reliably Democratic California, the action through Election Day is going to be in the voter initiatives, not the presidential race. Analysts expect close to $100 million in ad spending, writes Adam Nagourney, our Los Angeles bureau chief. [The New York Times] • President Obama on Monday waded into the debate over Colin Kaepernick’s refusal to stand for the national anthem. He said he did not doubt the sincerity of the 49ers quarterback’s protest. [The New York Times] • Santa Ana is on edge over its booming homeless population. One encampment has spread out along the dry bed of the Santa Ana River. A student journalist captured intimate photos of life in “Skid River. ” [Voice of OC] • Among the Silicon Valley elite, meanwhile, so few homes are on the market that buyers are getting more aggressive in approaching owners who haven’t officially decided to sell. [The New York Times] • How do Uber drivers decide when to call it a day? Many newer ones do the opposite of what economic rationality would seem to dictate. [The New York Times] • Hugh O’Brian, who played a   peace officer on “The Life and Legend of Wyatt Earp” from 1955 to 1961, died in Beverly Hills on Monday. He was 91. [The New York Times] • Vin Scully, the Dodgers’ broadcasting great, will call his last game on Oct. 2. Richard Sandomir, a Times columnist, said it would be a shame if TBS does not give him a national audience. [The New York Times] • Workers have installed the final piece of the spire atop the Wilshire Grand in downtown Los Angeles, making it the tallest skyscraper west of the Mississippi River. [Los Angeles Times] • Burning Man, the yearly carnival of   in the Nevada desert, wrapped up over the weekend. Jim Urquhart, a Reuters photographer, caught the pageantry. [The Atlantic] Craig Claiborne at The New York Times invented the modern restaurant review. Since 1963 the newspaper’s reviews have been confined to the New York region. Now, Pete Wells is taking The Times’s starred review on the road, visiting Cassia, an Asian restaurant in Santa Monica. Even after a wary moment with gnarled pig tail, Mr. Wells praised the chef’s skill in creating big flavors without resorting to extremes. • On Wednesday, Apple will hold its annual fall event in San Francisco. It’s expected to unveil its next iPhone. Are they going to ditch the headphone jack? • The 1995 crime drama “Heat” had three big stars, Al Pacino, Robert De Niro  —   and Los Angeles. All will be on hand Wednesday night when the Academy screens an ultra   restoration in Beverly Hills. A Q. and A. will follow. • With the potential for a huge new market in California, marijuana entrepreneurs will gather to talk business Wednesday through Friday at the Cannabis World Congress and Business Exposition in Los Angeles. • The San Francisco Fringe Festival kicks off Friday. The theater world’s answer to the bar crawl, the festival will present 38 shows over 16 days. • Fall is coming, folks. The Lake Tahoe Autumn Food and Wine Festival will greet the season beginning Friday and culminating with a wine contest on Sunday. There will be cooking demonstrations, mixology courses and a kids’ zone. When I told Kevin Starr, one of the state’s   historians, about the California newsletter, he kindly offered to share his contacts. Then came an admonition. “Please also pay attention not just to where California screwed up, but on things that are going well here,” he said. “Somebody has to explain why we are the sixth largest G. N. P. on the planet. ” Asked if he could explain it, he laughed. “Because of the interaction of all sort of things,” he said, “a talented population,   of very educated people, the ascendancy of the entertainment business, the ascendancy of the digital business . .. ” He went on to mention biotech, agriculture and California’s role as an arbiter of good design. James Canton, a futurist in San Francisco, described California as the nation’s engine of innovation. We face serious problems. But, he said, there’s no better population to tackle them. “Californians are constantly inventing the future,” he said. “And that future inevitably translates into jobs and wealth creation and opportunity, particularly for immigrants. ” California Today goes live at 6 a. m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes. com. California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and attended Cal Berkeley. On Twitter, follow Mike McPhate (@mmcphate) and reach us using #CAToday.