The New York Times announced on Friday that it was reviving the title of managing editor and naming Joseph Kahn, an assistant editor for International, to the position. The elevation of Mr. Kahn, 52, to the   newsroom position establishes him as a leading candidate to succeed Dean Baquet as executive editor, as The Times continues its shift to the next generation of leaders. As part of the announcement, the company also said that Susan Chira, 58, one of three deputy executive editors, was leaving that role to write about gender issues for The Times. The move comes as The Times’s newsroom undergoes significant changes aimed at making it better positioned for its digital future. When Mr. Baquet retired the managing editor title in 2014, he said the changes to the leadership structure were intended to make titles more fluid and the newsroom more nimble and responsive. But in an interview on Friday, he said he came to realize that his job as the top editor “had become really large” because he also had to consider the newsroom’s overall strategy. Mr. Baquet said he decided to appoint a managing editor about three weeks ago, and told Mr. Kahn soon after. “It’s one thing to have great ideas about how to change a newsroom and create a modern newsroom, it’s another thing to actually do it,” Mr. Baquet said. “I thought that I really needed a partner in it, if we were really going to pull it off. ” Succession plans at The Times have been a frequent topic of debate for decades, and Mr. Kahn’s promotion will most likely set off a fresh round of guesswork and forecasting. When James Bennet, 50, rejoined The Times this year as editorial page editor, his appointment also spurred speculation inside the newsroom and out that he would eventually succeed Mr. Baquet, who turns 60 next week. “I very much think that Joe should be a candidate to succeed me,” Mr. Baquet said. But he added, “He’s not the only candidate  —   I’m not setting him up in any way more than anybody else. ” Mr. Baquet was managing editor before he was named executive editor in May 2014, replacing Jill Abramson. Executive editors at The Times traditionally serve until they are 65, though some leave earlier. Also looming over The Times is the question of who will take over as publisher when Arthur Sulzberger Jr. steps aside. At the company’s annual meeting in May, Mr. Sulzberger said succession planning had begun and that by next May the company will have named a deputy publisher, a position that traditionally precedes an appointment to publisher. Mr. Baquet said a decision on the deputy publisher would come “soon. ” In the newsroom, Mr. Kahn’s promotion was less of a surprise than Ms. Chira’s decision to leave her role as the main masthead editor overseeing daily news coverage. Ms. Chira said the move was her decision and that this was her next chapter at The Times. “Dean would have loved for me to stay on the masthead, but I decided that this change was an opportunity for me,” Ms. Chira said in an interview. She said she had loved working with Mr. Baquet and the other deputy executive editors, “but as the situation changed, I thought, you know I have been basically on the treadmill of breaking news for 13 years” and she wanted to focus more on gender issues and writing. In her new role, Ms. Chira, who was previously the foreign editor for The Times for eight years and has helped oversee coverage that has won multiple Pulitzer Prizes, will cover gender for both the Opinion section and the newsroom. She will also help the editor of a new unit focused on gender issues that The Times plans to create. Ms. Chira has long been a champion of women in the newsroom. The other two deputy executive editors, Matthew Purdy and Janet Elder, will become deputy managing editors. Mr. Purdy, 60, will continue to oversee investigations and enterprise, while taking on additional responsibilities involving daily news coverage. Ms. Elder, 60, will continue her role running newsroom operations and personnel. In a note to the staff on Friday, Mr. Baquet said Mr. Kahn’s primary responsibility in the next year would be “to lead our efforts to build The Times of the future, and to grapple with questions of what we cover going forward, and what our desks should look like. ” In his new role, Mr. Kahn will be in charge of putting into effect changes proposed by a group that is working to prepare and transform the newsroom for a digital future. Mr. Kahn said in an interview that while he will be more focused on strategy in his role, he will also have a hand in the daily newsroom report. He expects to attend news meetings, he said, and will be involved with big stories. ” I don’t think it’s going to be 80 percent of my time,” Mr. Kahn said about his    coverage responsibilities. “But it’s going to be a lot bigger than zero. ” The Times plans to name Michael Slackman, the international managing editor, as its new international editor on Monday, according to a person with direct knowledge of the company’s plans who spoke on condition of anonymity. The appointment of Mr. Kahn is a reaffirmation of The Times’s commitment to its international expansion, an initiative that Mr. Kahn, a   winner of the Pulitzer Prize, has helped lead and that has been viewed as a pillar of the company’s future growth. In April, The Times said it would invest $50 million over the next three years to expand its international digital audience and increase its revenue outside of the United States. Mr. Kahn joined The Times in 1998 from The Wall Street Journal. He covered Wall Street and international economics and served as The Times’s Beijing bureau chief before returning to New York to work as deputy foreign editor and then international editor. In his note to the newsroom, Mr. Baquet praised Mr. Kahn’s leadership on “the transformation of our international presence,” saying he had helped bring the newsroom together “with our consumer, advertising, technology, product and data teams to help the company think and act globally. ”