Federal authorities in Manhattan and New Jersey charged Ahmad Khan Rahami with several crimes late Tuesday, including the use of weapons of mass destruction and bombing a place of public use. A federal complaint roughly laid out the method the authorities believe Mr. Rahami used to compile the materials for bombs and then place them in New Jersey and New York. Here are some details from the document: Two days before the bombing in the Chelsea neighborhood of Manhattan, Mr. Rahami was filmed igniting a device in the backyard of his home in Elizabeth, N. J. Federal investigators said the video shows Mr. Rahami in his backyard, lighting the fuse of a small cylindrical object in the ground followed by a loud noise and flames, smoke and laughter. Investigators believe Mr. Rahami bought some of the materials he used to make bombs on eBay between June 20 and Aug. 10 under the name “ahmad rahimi. ” On July 12, that user bought an electric igniter for a fireworks system. The Federal Bureau of Investigation said that “an analysis of the 27th Street bomb identified numerous electric igniters inside. ” On July 31, the user bought a circuit board, which the authorities said could be used in explosive devices. On Aug. 10, the user bought what authorities believe to be citric acid, which was described on the online auction site as being “great for bath bombs and candy making. ” The F. B. I. described citric acid as a precursor for improvised explosives. On various dates, the user bought items listed as milling balls and slingshot ammo, which investigators said could be used to increase a bomb’s fragmentation. The items were shipped to a business where Mr. Rahami worked. The complaint describes a handwritten journal investigators say they recovered from Mr. Rahami during his arrest. They said the journal includes references to slaughter in Afghanistan, Iraq, Palestine and Syria concern about being apprehended by the F. B. I. and the Department of Homeland Security and references to “jihad,” “pipe bombs” and a “pressure cooker bomb. ” It also includes “laudatory” writing about the   cleric Anwar   Maj. Nidal Malik Hasan, who killed 13 people in Fort Hood, Tex. and “Brother Osama bin Laden.” The document ends with the following: “Inshallah [God willing] the sounds of the bombs will be heard in the streets. Gun shots to your police. Death to your OPPRESSION. ” A YouTube account under a name the authorities linked to Mr. Rahami includes, on a page of favorites, what they describe as two   videos, as well as Afghan wedding songs, a model aircraft compilation and the viral video “Charlie Bit My Finger  —   Again!” The explosive in Chelsea was so powerful that it propelled the Dumpster it was under more than 120 feet, shattering windows as far as 400 feet away and three stories high. Fragmentation from the bomb, which was packed with ball bearings and steel nuts, was found more than 650 feet away.   people were injured, two more than were initially reported, the report said. Investigators recovered 12 fingerprints from the unexploded bomb on 27th Street, which F. B. I. agents matched to Mr. Rahami. They also say they matched fingerprints from materials inside the backpack used for the bomb at the train station in Elizabeth to Mr. Rahami. The injuries included lacerations to the face, stomach, legs and arms from flying glass and metal shrapnel and fragmentation embedded in skin and bone. One woman had multiple ball bearings removed from her body, metal from her ear and splintered wood from her neck. Another victim, a man who was driving by the bomb site, was knocked unconscious by the explosion. A video shows a man pulling a suitcase on West 27th Street about two minutes after the West 23rd Street explosion. That man, who investigators believe to be Mr. Rahami, returns shortly thereafter into the camera’s view, without the suitcase.