For the last three years, JPMorgan Chase’s hiring practices in China were at the center of a federal bribery investigation. Now, just as the bank is preparing to settle with federal prosecutors and the Securities and Exchange Commission, another round of scrutiny has emerged. JPMorgan’s top regulators  —   the Federal Reserve and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency  —   are seeking to impose their own penalties in the China hiring case, according to people briefed on the investigations. In recent days, the Fed sought a $62 million fine from the bank, and the O. C. C. is expected to seek its own punishment, according to the people, who were not authorized to discuss the private negotiations. Those agencies, which were not previously known to be involved in the case, could announce a settlement alongside the S. E. C. and prosecutors in the coming months. The Fed and O. C. C. investigations stem from the bank’s efforts to hire the children of China’s ruling elite  —   and in some cases link those jobs or internships to securing business with Chinese   companies. But unlike the S. E. C. and federal prosecutors, the banking regulators are not focused on the bribery aspect of the case, but rather a breakdown in controls and practices that allowed the improper hiring to take place. The actions from banking regulators would come on top of the roughly $200 million that JPMorgan is expected to pay to the federal prosecutors in Brooklyn and the S. E. C. the people briefed on the matter said, the majority of which would go to the S. E. C. With prosecutors, the bank appears to have scored a moral victory by avoiding criminal charges, the people briefed on the matter said. Instead of facing charges, the bank negotiated a rare nonprosecution agreement. Yet for JPMorgan, the Fed’s and O. C. C. ’s involvement complicates the outcome of the case and throws into doubt the timing of a settlement. If JPMorgan were facing only the S. E. C. and the prosecutors, the case might have concluded sooner and at a cheaper cost. The latest developments are an unexpected twist that underscore the banking regulators’ increasingly aggressive stance toward Wall Street misdeeds. In the fallout from the 2008 financial crisis, regulators have demanded that big banks tighten their controls and bolster oversight of their employees. Banks that failed to do so in the past have paid tens of billions of dollars in fines, much of it stemming from dubious mortgage practices in the years before the crisis, a departure for agencies once known for their light enforcement touch. Spokesmen for the Fed and the O. C. C. declined to comment. A spokesman for the Justice Department’s Criminal Division in Washington, which is working with the Brooklyn prosecutors in the case, also declined to comment, as did a spokeswoman for the S. E. C. JPMorgan did not comment, but the bank addressed the investigations in its most recent quarterly regulatory filing, stating that it was “responding to and cooperating with these investigations. ” Wells Fargo, which long marketed itself as the country’s Main Street lender and largely avoided   penalties, is now the latest bank to find itself in the   of regulators. The bank agreed this month to pay $185 million in fines, including $35 million to the O. C. C. for fraudulently opening as many as 1. 5 million bank accounts and potentially issuing hundreds of thousands of credit cards that had not been authorized by customers. In prepared remarks before the Senate Banking Committee on Tuesday, Thomas Curry, the comptroller of the currency, said his agency was considering taking action against individual Wells Fargo executives, “including directors, officers and employees who violate any law or regulation, engage in unsafe or unsound practices or breach fiduciary duty. ” The Federal Reserve has stepped up its enforcement efforts as well. Daniel Tarullo, a Federal Reserve governor who leads many of the central bank’s regulatory oversight efforts on Wall Street, recently remarked that banks have not done enough to change their cultures. And when banks misbehave, he said, regulators should hold individual bankers accountable. “There is a need, I think, for a focus on individuals as well as the fines put on the institutions,” Mr. Tarullo said in a televised interview on CNBC this month. The Fed’s recent enforcement cases reflect this focus on individual wrongdoing. In 2015, the Fed chose to bar six bankers from the industry, twice the number in 2014. The year before that, the Fed did not take any such actions. And just last month, the Fed took action against a former Goldman Sachs executive, seeking to bar him from the industry in a case that stemmed from 2014, when a junior Goldman employee received confidential government information from a Federal Reserve employee in New York. The Fed also fined Goldman $36 million. When the China hiring investigation first came to light in a   article in The New York Times three years ago, it was the latest regulatory woe to plague the bank. It came on the heels of the bank’s   London whale trading scandal, in which its traders lost $6 billion in bungled derivative bets, and around the time a mortgage settlement with the Justice Department cost $13 billion. Billions of dollars in fines later, the bank has largely retreated from the spotlight, which now appears to shine on Wells Fargo and other rivals. Even so, the government’s roughly $200 million settlement with JPMorgan in the China case could draw attention from lawmakers who argue that banks are too big  —   and systemically important  —   to indict. No individual employees are expected to be criminally charged, the people briefed on the matter said, and the bank will probably receive a nonprosecution agreement, a form of corporate probation that comes in exchange for concessions and penalties. Alternatively, prosecutors could have sought a criminal guilty plea, or a   agreement, which involves the filing of charges that are deferred and is generally viewed as more onerous than a nonprosecution deal. With the growth in guilty pleas and   agreements on Wall Street, nonprosecution deals have become less common for Wall Street banks. Ultimately, evidence in the case may have limited the options for prosecutors, who have a higher burden of proof than the S. E. C. For one thing, there is nothing inherently illicit about hiring   people, and prosecutors may have struggled to show an explicit quid pro quo from the bank to Chinese officials. And in many cases, the job or internship candidates may have been qualified anyway, or JPMorgan may have secured the business regardless of the hiring. JPMorgan’s lawyers also urged prosecutors not to criminalize hiring practices  —   including something as simple as awarding an internship  —   that were common in the region. And yet the bank had a formal program for hiring the children of China’s elite, once called “Sons and Daughters. ” The bank went as far as to use spreadsheets that listed the bank’s track record for converting a hire into a business deal, The New York Times reported in 2013. The investigation into JPMorgan’s hiring practices has brought to the fore an enduring issue for foreign banks competing for deals in China, where people’s “guanxi,” or social connections, sometimes count for more than their business experience. The culture of cultivating connections has fed widespread use of kickbacks and bribery across industries. For decades, Wall Street banks have sought to hire the sons and daughters of China’s elite  —     princelings  —   potentially to curry favor. When announced, the JPMorgan case would represent one of the first major crackdowns on a big bank for violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits giving “anything of value” to a foreign official to obtain business with a government entity. The S. E. C. filed a similar case last year against Bank of New York Mellon, which agreed to pay $14. 8 million to settle the accusations. Once JPMorgan puts its China hiring settlement behind it, regulators will most likely turn to the hiring practices of other banks, including HSBC and Deutsche Bank. These and other banks have publicly disclosed the existence of the investigations. Indeed, before JPMorgan stepped up its hiring, bank employees lamented the loss of business to a rival bank with a more formal hiring effort. “We lost a deal to DB today because they got chairman’s daughter work for them this summer,” one JPMorgan investment banking executive remarked to colleagues, using the initials for Deutsche Bank.