Good morning, Milan. Proceedings kick off early on Thursday, even if you partied until the wee hours with Fergie after her set at Philipp Plein last night (as we did). There are no excuses not to be on time, people. It’s only Day 2, and as we’ve said, fashion month is a marathon, not a sprint. Here’s what’s on today: • At 9:30, after a quick    espresso, the day starts with MaxMara, the   label few others can touch when it comes to the cut of an overcoat. The company has hired the model Gigi Hadid to be the face of its accessories campaigns, and Ms. Hadid will be hosting a cocktail party at the Corso Vittorio Emanuele store tonight. Expect a scrum to get in. • Fendi is likely to put on yet another Karl Lagerfeld exercise in refined grandeur. (Cameos from the Fendirumi, the furry   versions of the label’s   $1, 500 Bag Bugs, are now standard.) The industry is still buzzing about the spectacular Fendi couture show in Rome in July, with a glass catwalk across the Trevi Fountain to celebrate its 90th anniversary. • Once a predictable riot of color and print beloved by the jet set for their summer vacation wardrobes, Pucci is only somewhat less splashy under the direction of Massimo Giorgetti, its young and energetic creative director, now entering his third season. The last show took the label off the beach and into the realm of stretchy daywear inspired by St. Moritz. Who knows what path it may take next. • With twilight (and a Negroni and antipasti beforehand) comes Prada, one of the biggest and most creative names on the Milanese calendar. Its last tour de force collection was a highlight of the season. Commercially, the company has not fared as well it said in April that 2016 would be “a turning point,” after announcing its lowest profits in five years. All eyes will be on Mrs. Prada to see what magic she can produce. Arrive early to take a spin around the art collections at the nearby Fondazione Prada. • Last but not least, Moschino rounds off the first full day. An unapologetic maximalist, the creative director Jeremy Scott makes the hectic rounds between Los Angeles (where he lives) Milan (where he shows his collection for Moschino) and New York (where he shows his namesake collection). Expect a kitschy set, voguing models and a million posts on Instagram: The label’s fans can’t seem to get enough. And in case you missed it: Gucci’s Sequined, Studded, Spangled Saga. Our reviewer weighs in. How to Get Gucci’s Dreamlike Beauty Look Italian Brands Expect Some ‘Brexit’ Benefits