Election Day is Nov. 8, but most states require voters to register well before then. Deadlines in the remaining states are rapidly approaching. We’re sorry. It is already too late to register for the presidential election in Alabama, Alaska, Arkansas, Arizona, California, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Idaho, Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Mississippi, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia or West Virginia. Here’s a rundown of the remaining deadlines. The “mail” dates refer to the day by which an application must be postmarked. States that offer registration on Election Day often have special requirements. On a desktop computer, you may search for your state’s name with keyboard shortcuts: Ctrl F on a PC or Command F on a Mac. Tap on a state’s name for more detailed information. Wyoming: The deadline to register by mail was Oct. 25, but residents can register in person until Nov. 8. Nebraska: The deadline to register online or by mail was Oct. 21. Residents can register in person until Oct. 28. New Hampshire: The deadline to register by mail is Oct. 29. Residents cannot register online but can in person until Nov. 8. Iowa: The deadline to register online and in person is Oct. 29. Residents can register by mail until Oct. 24. Colorado: The deadline to register online and by mail is Oct. 31. Residents can register in person until Nov. 8. Washington State: The deadline to register online and by mail has passed. But residents can still register in person until Oct. 31. Connecticut: The deadline to register online, by mail and in person is Nov. 1. If you’re registering for the first time or have moved to a new town, registering in person on Election Day is possible. Utah: The deadline to register online or in person is Nov. 1. The deadline to register by mail has passed. Vermont: The deadline to register online, by mail and in person is Nov. 2. Illinois: The deadlines are slightly more complicated than in many other states. Although the deadline was technically Oct. 11, voters in Illinois were allowed to register in person during a “grace period” mandated by the state. Here’s more information about grace period registration. The deadline to register online or by mail has passed, but the deadline to register in person is Nov. 8. Wisconsin: The deadline to register online and by mail was Oct. 19, but residents can register in person until Nov. 8. Maine: The deadline to register by mail was Oct. 18, but residents can register in person until Nov. 8. District of Columbia: The deadline to register online and by mail was Oct. 11, but residents can register in person until Nov. 8. North Dakota: North Dakota is the only state in the country where you do not need to register in order to vote.