CHARLOTTE, N. C.  —   Under mounting pressure from politicians, community leaders and boisterous protesters who have brought this city’s main business district to a near standstill, the Charlotte police chief on Saturday released body and dashboard camera videos of the fatal police shooting of Keith Lamont Scott, a black resident here. While they do not show everything that happened at the scene, the two released videos appear to show Mr. Scott exiting a white sport utility vehicle and backing away from it with his hands at his sides. He did not appear to be acting in a threatening or erratic manner, although officers could be heard shouting, “Drop the gun!” The police said that they had recovered a loaded gun with Mr. Scott’s DNA on it, and that he was wearing an ankle holster. They did not reveal where they had found the gun. It appeared from the two angles that he had nothing in his right hand. It was unclear what, if anything, Mr. Scott, who was   had in his left hand. After Mr. Scott was shot multiple times and fell to the ground, his moans could be heard as officers handcuffed him. The police also revealed for the first time that officers had decided to confront Mr. Scott, 43, in the parking lot of his apartment complex on Tuesday because they noticed, as they were preparing to serve a warrant on another person, that he was rolling a marijuana cigarette inside his S. U. V.  —   and had observed him “hold a gun up,” according to a news release. Mr. Scott was parked in a visitor’s parking space at his apartment complex, where he often waited for a school bus bringing one of his children home from school. Chief Kerr Putney of the   Police Department said that, since Mr. Scott was believed to be in possession of marijuana and a handgun, it raised a safety issue officers felt compelled to confront. “What we are releasing are the objective facts,” Chief Putney said at a news conference. Still, he added that neither the videos, nor other evidence he intended to make public provided a definitive answer to all the questions in the case. “I stand behind the truth,” Chief Putney said. “People can interpret anything they want based on one piece of evidence, and I can tell you, I suspect they will based on the video footage. But what I say is, you have to put all pieces together. ” At a news conference about an hour after the videos were released, lawyers for the Scott family said his relatives were pleased with that decision, but also said the videos raised more questions than they answered. One of the lawyers, Justin Bamberg, said the family stood by its assertion that Mr. Scott was not armed and that he had not acted in a threatening manner. “When I look at the dashcam footage, I don’t see anything there, in my opinion, that would lead to him losing his life,” Mr. Bamberg said. Protesters on Saturday were skeptical that marijuana possession, which has been decriminalized in many places, should have led to a fatal encounter. The officer who shot Mr. Scott, Brentley Vinson, was also black, police officials have said. Greg Farmer, 25, who has been protesting since Mr. Scott’s death, said on Saturday that even if Mr. Scott did have marijuana and a gun, the police should not have killed him. “Even if they thought he was smoking weed, why in any world would that warrant him being gunned down?” said Mr. Farmer, who owns a food truck and a handyman business in Charlotte. The protesters, who have taken to the streets since Tuesday in large numbers  —   sometimes peacefully and sometimes not  —   have made “Release the Tapes” a signature chant and most pointed demand, and have accused Chief Putney of obscuring the details of the shooting. And yet, for a number of reasons, it seems likely that the release of the two videos, and the new information about the case, will do little to quell what has become a roiling national debate over whether it was necessary to fatally shoot Mr. Scott, one of a number of   men who have died at the hands of police officers in recent months. The frustration and anger was evident before Chief Putney had finished his news conference, which protesters were listening to on a loudspeaker at a park in the Uptown area of Charlotte. Around 4:30 p. m. a protester announced to some cheers that there had been an update about the release of the police videos. But that cautious optimism turned to anger about 10 minutes later as protesters learned the police would not be releasing all of the video footage. Chief Putney said that while the information being released constituted “the most complete puzzle that we can without trying the case out in public,” he said that some unreleased videos showed only people driving to the scene. He also said that more footage would be released upon completion of an independent inquiry being conducted by the State Bureau of Investigation “and there has been a definitive decision on the part of the prosecutor. ” The mood among the protesters fell. “Everybody take a deep breath. So basically Chief Putney is saying that they are not releasing the full videos of Keith L. Scott,” Tamika Lewis, 27, one of the protest organizers, said as many others booed and shook their heads. “Our demand clearly states to release the full video, the names and the reports that are related to the shooting. This is a slap in the face. He’s like, ‘Oh, I’m going to give them a little bit of what they want, and then they’re going to go away.’ No. We will occupy the streets of Charlotte until they release the full videos. ” The chief, as well as other officials in North Carolina, had previously resisted demands to release the footage because they said it could undercut the investigation by the state, which is reviewing the shooting at the request of Mr. Scott’s family. But by Saturday afternoon, word had begun to spread through Charlotte that the chief had agreed to release the footage. During a news conference at a West Charlotte police station, as   members of the National Guard stood outside, the chief insisted that his decision had not been influenced by political pressure, nor by the release on Friday of a video recorded by Mr. Scott’s wife. The chief said he believed that disclosing some of the state’s evidence would not “taint” the state’s inquiry. “The footage itself will not create, in anyone’s mind, absolute certainty as to what this case represents, and what the outcome should be,” he said. “The footage only supports all of the other information  —   physical evidence, the statements from witnesses and officers and all of the other information, scientific and physical  —   that create an entire picture. ” The matter of whether the police should disclose its footage had been fiercely debated for days here. The authorities repeatedly pledged transparency, but warned that a premature release of any evidence could compromise the case. But protesters marched through the streets of Charlotte and demanded the videos’ release. The debate even reached the presidential campaign on Friday, when Hillary Clinton, the Democratic nominee, said the city should distribute its footage “without delay. ” Gov. Pat McCrory of North Carolina, a former Charlotte mayor who had expressed reservations as recently as Friday about releasing any evidence, said he supported Chief Putney’s decision announced on Saturday. He said he was convinced the “release will have no material impact on the independent investigation since most of the known witnesses have been interviewed. ” The anger and suspicion in Charlotte have been fueled in part by memories of the September 2013 police slaying of Jonathan Ferrell, a    black man who was shot 10 times by a white officer in a Charlotte subdivision. Mr. Ferrell had been in a car wreck, and had walked to a nearby home and knocked on the door. A white woman, fearing Mr. Ferrell was a robber, called 911. One officer, upon arrival, immediately aimed a Taser at Mr. Ferrell. Another officer, Randall Kerrick, fired his gun, believing that Mr. Ferrell was trying to take the gun away. Mr. Kerrick was charged with voluntary manslaughter, but the case ended in a hung jury and a mistrial in August 2015. Prosecutors decided not to retry Officer Kerrick, and the case was dismissed. At Saturday’s news conference held by the Scott family’s lawyers, one of them, Charles G. Monnett III, said he was surprised that North Carolina was again talking about the killing of a black man by the police. “Quite frankly, I’m shocked that less than two years after the conclusion of the Jonathan Ferrell case, that we are standing back before you again to talk about whether the shooting of another a black man was justified,” he said. “We shouldn’t be here. We’ve got to learn. We’ve got to change our police approach. One of the things that really disturbs me about what I see on the video is the failure of the police to use all of the resources that they had at their disposal to avoid killing Keith. ” After Chief Putney’s news conference, the department released a detailed report of the police’s version of events. It said that Mr. Scott got out of his S. U. V. “with the gun” and “backed away from the vehicle while continuing to ignore officers’ repeated loud verbal commands to drop the gun. ” The release said that Officer Vinson perceived Mr. Scott’s “actions and movements as an imminent physical threat to himself and other officers” before he fired. Later, the release said, homicide detectives interviewed “multiple” civilian witnesses who said Mr. Scott had ignored repeated commands to drop the gun. A lab analysis of a gun recovered at the scene, the release said, revealed the presence of Mr. Scott’s DNA and fingerprints on the weapon. The dispute about the footage reached its climax one week before North Carolina was scheduled to restrict access to police recordings. A state law signed by Mr. McCrory that has long been scheduled to take effect on Oct. 1 will prohibit police recordings from being deemed public records. A court order will be required to release any footage, and judges will be allowed to consider whether “release is necessary to advance a compelling public interest,” as well as whether publication “would create a serious threat to the fair, impartial and orderly administration of justice. ” William Barber II, the president of the North Carolina chapter of the N. A. A. C. P. said in an interview on Saturday that the release of the two videos was not sufficient. He called for the full release of all police videos of the incident, and demanded a federal investigation. He noted that neither he nor anyone else in the public was in possession of all of the facts in the case. But he also said that neither the possession of marijuana nor the possession of a gun should warrant “a death sentence. ”