With clashes over truth, lies and exaggerations dominating the prelude to the first presidential debate, The New York Times has assembled a team of at least 18   for Monday night, drawing on the expertise of some of our most seasoned reporters. (Here’s our live analysis and video of the debate, highlights and fact checks.) These reporters will assess the accuracy of assertions made by either candidate, or by the moderator, in real time as the debate unfolds, with an aim of posting each fact check within five minutes of the statement’s being made. The   operation is an important dimension of an expansive coverage plan for the debate, which begins at 9 p. m. The Times will stream the debate live on its home page and will provide   analysis from our regular team of reporters on political debates: Maggie Haberman, Nicholas Confessore, Adam Nagourney and Alan Rappeport. We will also provide continually updated highlights for those joining the debate after it has begun. Our   in Washington and New York are: • David Sanger, Mark Landler, Eric Schmitt and Matthew Rosenberg, who have a deep background in national security issues and foreign policy • Neil Irwin and Binyamin Appelbaum, who write expertly about the economy • Steven Lee Myers and Eric Lichtblau, who have closely covered Hillary Clinton’s email issues • Julia Preston, who has covered immigration for 10 years • Adam Goldman and Matt Apuzzo, who have reported extensively about the F. B. I. guns and terrorism • Coral Davenport, who covers the environment and climate change • Margot   who writes about health care • Adam Liptak, who covers the Supreme Court • Charlie Savage, who writes about constitutional issues • Michael D. Shear, a White House correspondent • and Steve Eder and Mike McIntire, two of our investigative reporters. On the Opinion side, The Times will publish quick responses to the debate from columnists and other prominent writers before, during and after the debate. Starting around 4 p. m. at nytimes.  Gail Collins, Charles Blow and others will describe what they will be watching for from the candidates. During the debate, Paul Krugman, Roger Cohen, J. D. Vance and other observers will offer quick commentary. And once the debate concludes, columnists and contributors will provide reaction. The Times will also offer coverage through Facebook Live, which can be viewed at facebook. . At 7 p. m. the political reporters Amy Chozick, Nick Corasaniti and Jonathan Martin will offer a preview of the debate from Hofstra University on Long Island and take questions from Facebook users. When the debate begins, at 9 p. m. The Times will be live on Facebook with two streams: one showing the debate itself, and another that will pair audio of the debate with live cartooning by Bob Eckstein, an illustrator for The Times. The live streams on Facebook will incorporate other features of Times coverage, including commentary from our Opinion writers and fact checks and analysis from our reporters. When the debate ends, Donald J. Trump is scheduled to attend an   and Mr. Corasaniti will cover that event live. Mr. Corasaniti also shared what to watch for on The Times’s Snapchat account this morning.