The country’s murder rate jumped more last year than it had in nearly half a century, newly released federal crime data showed, although the number of homicides remained far below the levels of the 1980s and ’90s. The data, part of an annual report released on Monday by the F. B. I. showed that the murder rate rose 10. 8 percent across the United States in 2015, part of a nearly 4 percent increase in violent crime. Fueling the surge in murders was street violence in a handful of major cities, notably Baltimore, Chicago, St. Louis, Washington, D. C. and Milwaukee, where most of the victims were young   males. The F. B. I. reported that guns were used in nearly   of the nation’s 15, 696 murders during 2015. Police officials and criminologists say there is no single explanation for the increase nationally, but point to disputes that more often end in gun violence and turf battles over a growing, and highly profitable, heroin trade. “It’s too early to call this an end to the crime drop, but we are facing a   rise in murders that is quite substantial  —   the largest in about half a century,” said Richard Rosenfeld, a criminology professor at the University of  . Louis, and an authority on crime trends. “Alarm is not the appropriate response,” he said, “but the priority should be in improving   relations, particularly in disadvantaged   communities. ” The data was released on a day when a gunman in Houston wounded nine people before being fatally shot by the police, and in the midst of a heated presidential campaign in which the Republican candidate, Donald J. Trump, has made law and order a central tenet. Saying that “crime is out of control, and rapidly getting worse,” Mr. Trump has pledged to make the country safe again. He suggested last week that    policing, a tactic that has been ruled unconstitutional and subsequently discontinued in New York City, might be a model for other cities. The Democratic candidate, Hillary Clinton, has called for an overhaul of the justice system and a rebuilding of trust between law enforcement officers and the communities they serve. She has also called for stricter gun control. The murder rate last year was far below the levels of 30 to 40 years ago, when violent crime, fueled partly by gang violence during the crack cocaine epidemic, reached a peak. The overall 3. 9 percent increase in violent crime in 2015 was lower than levels from five and 10 years ago, the F. B. I. said. “It is important to remember that while crime did increase over all last year, 2015 still represented the   year for violent crime in the past two decades,” Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch said Monday. The pace of murders in Baltimore, Milwaukee, St. Louis and Washington has since fallen in 2016, according to police data from those cities. (Homicides classified as murder or   manslaughter are included in the F. B. I. data for murder.) Still, the White House press secretary, Josh Earnest, said that President Obama, who has pushed for stricter gun control, “believes there’s more that we can and should do. ” “And there’s no area where the president has been more outspoken than taking action on   gun safety measures that would make it harder for criminals and others who shouldn’t have them to buy a gun,” Mr. Earnest said. James B. Comey, the F. B. I. director, has suggested that the increase in violence in some urban centers may be the result of police officers’ being less aggressive in confronting potential crime as departments have been subjected to intense scrutiny over questionable shootings that have been captured on video and watched by millions on the internet. Mr. Comey’s remarks have been disputed by police chiefs and criminologists, who say there is no reliable data that supports his premise. The F. B. I. report said that about 1. 2 million violent crimes occurred in 2015, up from 1. 15 million in 2014. In 1996, when cities experienced a wave of violent crime, there were about 1. 7 million violent crimes, according to the data. The number of murders in 2015 was about the same as the 15, 399 committed in 2009. Still, the 10. 8 percent increase in the murder rate in 2015 is the most since a rise of more than 11 percent from 1967 to 1968, Dr. Rosenfeld said. By contrast, property crimes fell 2. 6 percent in 2015, according to the F. B. I. data. Chicago, one of the cities responsible for a significant part of the nation’s homicide increase, had 411 murders in 2014 and 478 in 2015, according to the F. B. I. data. As of late September, more than 500 people had been killed in Chicago so far this year, passing the city’s total for all of 2015, and more than 3, 000 people have been shot. Officials in Chicago have struggled to explain the uptick in killings. The law enforcement authorities point to a rising number of increasingly splintered gangs on the city’s South and West Sides, as well as an abundance of guns and what they view as weak penalties for gun violations. Community leaders identify more profound roots for the violence, including disinvestment in neighborhoods, poverty and unemployment. Last week, Chicago officials announced efforts to try to slow the violence, including the addition of nearly 1, 000 officers who are expected to join the Chicago Police Department, which is already the nation’s   municipal police force. Relations between the Chicago police and residents have grown especially tense since late 2015 when city officials made public a video showing a police officer shooting Laquan McDonald, an   teenager, 16 times. The Department of Justice is investigating the Chicago police. Los Angeles had 282 murders in 2015, compared with 262 in 2014, while New York had 352 murders last year, and about 333 in 2014, the report said. Other cities that had large increases in murders in 2015  —   including Baltimore, where they rose to 344 from 211 in 2014, and Milwaukee, where they increased to 145 from 90  —   have seen murders drop this year. “There are four or five cities that are big enough to drive a significant portion of the increase,” said Ronal Serpas, a former police chief in Nashville and New Orleans, who is now a criminal justice professor at Loyola University New Orleans. But homicides have increased during the first nine months of this year in several other cities, including Charlotte, N. C. where Keith Lamont Scott, a black man, was fatally shot by the police last week. Those numbers are expected to lead to an even higher increase in the murder rate for 2016, according to a report published this month by the Brennan Center for Justice at New York University School of Law.