BAKU, Azerbaijan  —   Pope Francis on Sunday finished his visit to the   Caucasus region with a stop in Azerbaijan, a predominantly Shiite Muslim country, where he pleaded with leaders of all religious faiths to leave future generations “a better world than the one we have received. ” Francis praised Azerbaijan as a place of religious tolerance as he met privately with Sheikh   the region’s grand mufti, before the two men held an interreligious meeting at the country’s largest mosque with Orthodox Christian, Muslim and Jewish leaders. Alluding to wars in the region, Francis called on religions to “be active agents working to overcome the tragedies of the past and the tensions of the present. ” But Francis was silent about the Azerbaijan government’s   record on civil liberties, human rights and fair elections. Human rights groups have documented numerous abuses, including the imprisonment of journalists and political dissidents, the disbarment of human rights lawyers and a crackdown on civil society groups. Francis expounded on a few unrelated topics during his customary news conference onboard the papal airliner during the return trip to Rome, including the American presidential election and the issue of gender identity. Asked how he would advise American Catholics in an election in which both major candidates diverge from some Catholic teachings  —   the Republican nominee, Donald J. Trump, has vilified immigrants and religious minorities  —   Francis recommended that voters study the candidates’ concrete proposals, pray “and choose in conscience. ” Regarding his remarks a day earlier, when he criticized “gender theory,” Francis said he disapproved of schools or textbooks that “indoctrinate” the belief that gender is something a person can choose or change. But he added that the role of a good priest is to accompany someone struggling with these feelings  —   not to abandon or condemn the person. He also said Jesus would not turn such people away. He noted that last year, he received a letter from a Spaniard who had undergone    gender reassignment surgery and who later married a woman. The man asked the pope if the couple could visit him at the Vatican, and Francis agreed. “I received them,” he said. “They were happy. ” Francis’ short visit, about 10 hours, to   Azerbaijan was the final stop in his bifurcated tour of the Caucasus, which began with a June visit to Armenia. He returned over the weekend to spend two days in Georgia before arriving on Sunday morning in Baku, the capital of Azerbaijan at the edge of the Caspian Sea. In visiting the Caucasus, Francis waded into a region troubled by rivalries and conflict, but one with geopolitical importance as a historical crossroads between East and West. Georgian leaders lobbied Francis over their efforts to reclaim territory now under the control of separatist groups supported by Russia. In Armenia and Azerbaijan, he was pulled in opposite directions in their long conflict over the region of  . During his visit to Armenia, Francis promised to talk to the Azeris about how to find a peaceful solution to the conflict over the   region, and told reporters on that trip back to Rome that “not making peace on account of a small patch of land  —   because that is all it is  —   means something grim. ” Some Azeri analysts saw that comment as belittling a dispute that has displaced large numbers of people. “Our people have faced a humanitarian catastrophe,” President Ilham Aliyev said Sunday afternoon during an appearance with the pope. Francis stuck with broad calls for dialogue, urging the international community to help mediate, describing himself as “a pilgrim for peace” in the region and expressing “my heartfelt closeness to those who have had to leave their land and to the many people who suffer the effects of bloody conflicts. ” His silence on the Aliyev administration’s record on civil liberties and human rights was noticeable, if perhaps not surprising. He is usually careful to avoid direct criticisms of a government during his international trips, though he does regularly make implicit criticisms. The Roman Catholic Church, officially granted legal recognition by the Azeri government in 2011, has fewer than 300 native followers. Mr. Aliyev has faced heavy international criticism for cracking down on free speech and political dissent. One   case involved the journalist Khadija Ismayilova, who was sentenced to prison on tax evasion charges after reporting on corruption in the Aliyev government. With a big international campaign on her behalf, Ms. Ismayilova was released in May after the case became embarrassing for Mr. Aliyev, though she is still serving a suspended sentence. What Francis did want to emphasize was the country’s embrace of religious diversity at a time when the Islamic State is slaughtering people in Syria and persecuting Christians and other  . “We see the growing emergence of rigid and fundamentalist reactions on the part of those who, through violent words and deeds, seek to impose extreme and radical attitudes which are furthest from the living God,” he said.