For a long time, very few people thought there was money to be made selling hot chicken. This is almost certainly because for a long time, very few people outside certain neighborhoods in Nashville knew what hot chicken was. The ones who did know usually lived somewhere near Prince’s Hot Chicken Shack, which was known as Prince’s BBQ Chicken Shack until it was taken over by a member of the family who thought it was time to acknowledge that what the Princes did to chicken had nothing to do with barbecue. Prince’s is and always was a   restaurant. The chicken was never cooked in advance. It spattered away in a skillet while the customer who had ordered it waited, and waited. But the thing that made Prince’s famous, to the extent that it was famous, was what happened to the chicken after it came out of the skillet. Still dripping with oil, the legs, thighs and breasts were given a glossy finish with spicy oil. Prince’s kitchen is a restricted area. The family guards the recipe for that oil fiercely. But the seasonings are said to include brown sugar, dried garlic, paprika and, crucially, cayenne. Depending on how much oil is applied, the cayenne can make a   eater cry. When Anthony Bourdain was asked about the scariest situations he’d been in while filming his television shows, he named Congo, Libya and Beirut, followed by hot chicken in Nashville. Pain was the point all along. According to the family legend, which fortunately for everybody took shape long before   became a household phrase in America, Thornton Prince’s girlfriend cooked the first hot chicken for breakfast one morning during the Depression to get back at him for his nocturnal wanderings. Forgetting that revenge is best served cold, she loaded the chicken with spice, only to find that her unfaithful man loved hot chicken, shared hot chicken with his friends and made hot chicken into a business that has lasted more than 70 years. Although Prince’s had local competition from a hot chicken place started by a former cook, it was only in this decade that entrepreneurs began to think that cooking chicken that makes customers cry might be a good way to earn money. In the Nashville area there is Slow Burn, Pepperfire and Hattie B’s, among others. KFC began selling its version of Nashville hot chicken throughout the United States in January. Independent operators have set up across the country from Los Angeles to Cambridge, Mass. to Brooklyn, where Carla Hall opened a tiny Nashville chicken spot in June. Carla Hall’s Southern Kitchen doesn’t lack for branding. Slogans and catchphrases are written all over the menu and the walls, inside and outside on the corner of Kane and Columbia Streets. The place is so clearly positioned to spawn multiple locations that it almost seems pregnant. When you have decided whether you want thighs, drumsticks, breasts, tenders or some combination of these, one of the smiling people working at the counter will ask: “Do you want Southern, Hoot  Honey, Hoot, Hootie Hoot,    or Boomshakalaka?” It’s like having a conversation with an owl. Even when you know that Ms. Hall, a host on “The Chew,” has been identified with the phrase “hootie hoo” since her days as a “Top Chef” contestant, this is not an easy question to answer the first time you hear it, or the second or third time, either. Most customers fall back on a number system, one to six. Level one, Southern, gets no hot oil and is easy enough to eat. Like all the chicken, it sits on white bread and has pickle slices pinned on it with toothpicks. Level two is slicked all over with just enough oil to give it a rounder flavor that is sweet, savory and spicy but not cruel. Heat tolerance is of course a personal thing, but at level three I became slightly more aware of my skin at level four, I became conscious of the passing of time at level five, I began tearing off chunks of white bread and stuffing them into my mouth. Level six gave me second thoughts, but not serious pain. (If you want to go to the dark side, the chicken for you is the extra hot at Peaches HotHouse in   Brooklyn, although the chile payload is delivered by a spice powder sprinkled over the top parts of the crust that aren’t powdered just taste like regular fried chicken.) The meat at Carla Hall’s Southern Kitchen tastes natural, which is to say it hasn’t been twisted beyond recognition by aggressive brining of the kind practiced at Root  Bone and other places around town. Ms. Hall seems to have focused her efforts on the crust, and it is excellent, a darkish shell both formidably crunchy and a little chewy. Spice or no spice, this is not a style of fried chicken you often find in New York. The hottest and crunchiest chicken I ate was the one I waited longest for. The least exciting, though it was still well worth eating, was a piece of white meat that came out before I’d moved from a counter to one of the few chairs. This is a small restaurant, not built for lounging, and Ms. Hall may not want hungry crowds hanging out while the chicken sizzles away. But her recipe is good enough to make you wish every piece were cooked to order. The sides and desserts will not draw anybody to Columbia Street, but a few of them are very good. I tend to sigh when I hear that collards were cooked without meat, but Ms. Hall’s are lively and tangy better, actually, than many pots of collards around town. No reforms have been inflicted on the candied yams, and that is good news. The pimento cheese, punched up with flecks of hot green pepper and served with a   bag of Ritz crackers, was exactly what I hoped it would be. I felt the same way about the biscuits, which had a tenderness that tends to elude Northern cooks. The potato salad, on the other hand, needed perking up, and the macaroni and cheese was the opposite of creamy, a hard, bland lattice of noodles. The bread pudding was dried out, too, and something seemed to have gone wrong with the whoopie pies. They were dense and lumpy, as if a distracted baker had left out an ingredient. I can’t imagine why Ms. Hall is bothering with whoopie pies when her banana pudding is (a) charming, with caramelized bananas and a swirl of what looks like whipped cream but turns out to be a version of Marshmallow Fluff and (b) the only dessert anybody needs after pimento cheese and fried chicken.