The police in Palm Springs, Calif. are mourning two officers who were shot and killed on Saturday while responding to a call about a domestic disturbance. One of the victims was a young mother and the other a veteran months away from retirement. Dozens of law enforcement officers converged on the scene, where a third officer had been wounded, to help search for the gunman. “I am awake in a nightmare right now,” said Chief Bryan Reyes of the Palm Springs Police Department. The Riverside County Sheriff’s Department, which took over the case, said on Sunday that a suspect, John Felix, 26, of Palm Springs, had been arrested. The police said that Mr. Felix had been injured while exchanging gunfire with the officers, but that his injuries were not   and that he was being treated at a local hospital. Mr. Felix will be charged with two counts of murder of a peace officer, the police said. The Los Angeles Times reported that Mr. Felix had a criminal record. He was convicted of assault with a deadly weapon in 2009 and sentenced to two years in prison. The episode began shortly after noon on Saturday when a woman called the police about her adult son. Three officers  —   Jose Gilbert Vega, 63 Lesley Zerebny, 27 and a man whose identity has not been released  —   responded to the call. A person at the house refused to open the front door and threatened to shoot them through it, Chief Reyes said. Within 10 minutes, shots had been fired and all three officers had been hit. “It was a simple family disturbance and he elected to open fire,” Chief Reyes said. Officer Zerebny had been on the force for a year and a half. She was married to a deputy for the Riverside County Sheriff’s Department. Officer Vega, who was married with eight children, had been with the department for 35 years. Chief Reyes said Officer Vega was not scheduled to work on Saturday, but he had picked up an overtime shift. He was planning to retire in December. “My employees are broken,” Chief Reyes said, his voice shaking. “If there’s ever a time to pray for Palm Springs P. D. it is now. ” Officers Zerebny and Vega are the first from the department to die in the line of duty since 1962, The Desert Sun reported.