 (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the  .) Good morning. Here’s what you need to know: • The second presidential debate. Hillary Clinton and Donald J. Trump spent nearly 90 minutes exchanging personal attacks Sunday night, suggesting that the final weeks before Election Day on Nov. 8 will be an ugly political brawl. Mrs. Clinton criticized Mr. Trump for not showing remorse after several provocative comments during the campaign, and Mr. Trump accused her of having “tremendous hate in her heart. ” He also repeatedly described recorded remarks from 2005, in which he boasted that he could grope women because he was a celebrity, as “  talk. ” Here are more highlights from the debate. •   analysis. The takeaways: Mrs. Clinton stuck to a safe script and leveled no surprise attacks Mr. Trump widened his political vulnerabilities with   comments. Who won? According to some pundits, Mr. Trump exceeded expectations and showed supporters that his campaign wasn’t over. Finally, we   several of the nominees’ statements. • Fallout from lewd comments from 2005. Mr. Trump has threatened to retaliate against Republican lawmakers who withdrew their support for him. The list has grown to more than 160 prominent party members. And Billy Bush, the “Today” show host who was bantering with Mr. Trump on the recording, has been suspended by NBC. We look at why the network was slow to report its own story about the video despite knowing about it last Monday. • Hurricane Matthew’s toll. Nearly 900 people died  in Haiti as a result of the storm that blasted the island last week, and more than 500, 000 remain stranded in the country’s south. “God gives and God takes,” a resident in one   town said. “Mankind, for all the evil he does, could never do something like this. ” In the U. S. at least 17 people were killed by the hurricane, which caused record flooding in North Carolina. • More problems for Samsung. The world’s biggest smartphone maker temporarily suspended production of its Galaxy Note 7 devices after reports of fires in its replacement models. The company had previously said it would recall 2. 5 million Note 7 phones over reports that the battery could catch fire. • Nobel in economics science. The Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science was awarded this morning to Oliver Hart and Bengt Holmstrom for their insights into how best to write contracts. • Choosing a voice for conversational computing, an emerging field in technology, reflects society’s preconceptions around race and gender. Companies are having to decide whether it is better to succeed by complying with a stereotype, or risk failure by going against type. • A   automotive company is turning to an unlikely ally for advertising help: the satirical news outlet The Onion. • Resolving workplace  conflicts with empathy and forgiveness can improve conditions at work, a business professor’s recent studies have found. • U. S. stocks finished down on Friday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • Two police officers in Palm Springs, Calif. were shot and killed while responding to a domestic disturbance. • Pope Francis named 17 new cardinals, including three Americans, the most he named from any one country. • Ethiopia has declared a   state of emergency after months of antigovernment protests have left an estimated 500 people dead. • In sports, Tom Brady returned from his   N. F. L. suspension and threw for over 400 yards to lead New England to victory. Toronto moved on to the American League Championship Series, and Cleveland and Chicago are a win away from advancing in the M. L. B. playoffs. • “The Girl on the Train” was the top movie at the North American box office. “The Birth of a Nation” had a disappointing opening. • Obama’s valedictory tour. President Obama made a rare stop in his adopted hometown, Chicago, spending Friday and Saturday there for a   and some golf. He also spent time with supporters discussing plans for his presidential library and charitable foundation in the city. • New market for medical marijuana. Some owners of dogs and cats are giving their   pets   remedies to treat seizures, inflammation, anxiety and pain. The Food and Drug Administration, though, has not approved marijuana for domesticated animals, citing a lack of research showing its effectiveness. • Start the week with style. Here are 50 of our best photographs from fashion month. • Recipe of the day. Take it easy with this classic tuna salad sandwich. Columbus Day is being observed in the U. S. today. In Canada, it’s Thanksgiving. And new holidays seem to be invented every year. Today is also Handbag Day and Angel Food Cake Day. One event on this date, though, highlights a more serious subject: World Homeless Day. Started in 2010, the day seeks to bring attention to homelessness, a problem that affects tens of millions of people worldwide, according to the United Nations. In the U. S. more than a   people live on the streets or in shelters for temporary stays. But national statistics show that homelessness is declining. And Salt Lake City has been held up as a model. The city’s approach is simple: Before tackling the problems that led someone to become homeless, those in need first receive a place to live. The program is credited with reducing the number of chronically homeless people across the state by 91 percent since 2005. Lloyd Pendleton, who leads Utah’s homeless task force, initially doubted the plan. “I get probably two to five calls a week now,” he said in an interview last year, “wanting to know how we did it. ” For information on how you can help, the National Alliance to End  Homelessness and the National Coalition for the Homeless offer resources. Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays at 6 a. m. Eastern and updated on the web all morning. What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes. com. You can sign up here to get the briefing delivered to your inbox.