The United States   Agency is seeking to reassure American athletes that their private medical information is safe after Russian hackers gained access to the email account of one of the agency’s officials. The same cyberespionage group that stole private medical information from the World   Agency’s athlete database last summer more recently compromised the email account belonging to the science director of the American agency. The agency believes the breach occurred in early September in Rio de Janeiro, at the start of the Paralympic Games. The federal authorities have assessed the extent of the damage and are investigating the attack, the United States agency said. Travis Tygart, chief executive of Usada, called the attacks “deplorable” on Friday, adding: “Our athletes here in the U. S. get it, and they see these cyberattacks for exactly what they are: A blatant attempt to baselessly smear the reputations of clean athletes and to distract from the   doping system that corrupted the Sochi Games. ” The hackers, calling themselves Fancy Bear  —   a group believed to be associated with the G. R. U. the Russian military intelligence agency suspected of involvement in the recent cyberattack on the Democratic National Committee  —   published files this month relating to American athletes whom the sports authorities had granted waivers to take prohibited drugs. Such waivers, known as therapeutic use exemptions, have been central to the recent Fancy Bear hacks. When the group began publishing athlete files in   it argued that the exemptions  —   granted by top sports authorities and approved by WADA and the International Olympic Committee  —   constituted sanctioned doping and delivered an unfair advantage. Russia’s president, Vladimir V. Putin, expressed that view this week, suggesting that athletes with drug exemptions should compete in special, segregated categories. The Russian government has denied ties to the Fancy Bear attack. More than 25 American athletes  —   including   Olympians like Simone Biles and Serena and Venus Williams  —   were affected by the hackers’ first several rounds of disclosures, staggered over several weeks. Ms. Biles, 19, subsequently said that she had received a diagnosis of   hyperactivity disorder years earlier, adding that she was not ashamed of her disorder or by the disclosure of her sensitive medical information. Also affected were more than 100 athletes from 26 other countries  —   including one from Russia  —   who had permission to take a range of medications to treat conditions like allergies, asthma and attention disorders. But with the latest batch of files, published Oct. 7 and drawing on the American antidoping agency’s emails, the hackers focused squarely on the United States, citing “more than 200 American athletes who have permission to take banned drugs” whose names and waivers they had gained access to via a spreadsheet stored on email. (The United States files, first reported on by Forbes, were taken down for roughly five days, during which the Fancy Bear site was down.) The email breach affected one individual’s account, the United States antidoping agency said this week that account belonged to Matthew Fedoruk, the organization’s science director. Dr. Fedoruk was working at the oceanside hotel where the International Paralympic Committee was headquartered, in the Barra da Tijuca neighborhood of Rio. His account was thought to have been compromised through the   network he was using there. The organization was not aware of the breach until Fancy Bear announced it roughly a month later. The American agency said this week that its email servers had not been compromised and that the breach had affected Mr. Fedoruk’s account alone. The agency said it had determined that Fancy Bear made failed attempts through different channels to gain access to other files, including the agency’s financial records. Russia was barred from participating in the Paralympics after revelations of   doping and coordinated   that relied on help from Russia’s Federal Security Service. In recent days, Mr. Tygart sent a video message to all American athletes whose information had been made public. He said he had spoken with dozens of athletes and their parents by phone. Mr. Tygart called on global sports leaders to condemn the hacks. Thomas Bach, president of the International Olympic Committee, has called the breaches “unacceptable” while suggesting that responsibility lies with WADA, which ought to “significantly improve its information security standards to comply with the international data privacy regulations and to prevent data leakage of critical information. ” The Fancy Bear hackers have threatened to continue to release information, suggesting last Friday that Dr. Fedoruk’s emails were only the start of the correspondence they had obtained. As investigations into elaborate   cheating by Russia at the last Winter Olympics continue, “some leaders in Olympic sport have taken the bait and are talking more about this,” Mr. Tygart said of the hacks, “than about imposing meaningful consequences on a   doping program and how to ensure that it never happens again. ”