Dennis Byrd, a former Jets defensive lineman who made an inspiring recovery from paralysis after a   neck injury in 1992, died on Saturday in a   crash near Claremore, Okla. officials said. Byrd was 50. A    boy driving a sport utility vehicle north on Oklahoma Highway 88 veered into the oncoming lane about 11:15 a. m. striking an S. U. V. driven by Byrd, who was pronounced dead at the scene, the Oklahoma Highway Patrol said. The boy was taken to Saint Francis Hospital in Tulsa, Okla. where officials said he was in stable condition. A    boy was also injured in the crash. Against the Chiefs, on Nov. 29, 1992, Byrd and a teammate, Scott Mersereau, collided while chasing Kansas City quarterback Dave Krieg. Byrd broke a bone in his spine and could not move his lower body. “An eerie silence gripped the stadium as Jets doctors and trainers attended to Byrd for seven minutes,” according to a New York Times article about the game. “Hopes were raised when Byrd moved his left arm. A few of his teammates drifted over to talk to him and hold his hand, then slowly they began to realize just how seriously injured he was. ” Three days after Byrd was injured, he underwent a   operation at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan to stabilize his spine. Doctors thought it could take two years to determine whether he would be able to regain use of the lower half of his body, although they were already encouraged that Byrd had been able to flex his ankles and move some toes. By the end of January 1993, Byrd had made extensive progress in a therapy program at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. Weeks later, using crutches, he appeared for an emotional news conference to mark the end of his rehabilitation program at the hospital. The story of Byrd’s recovery was told in an autobiography, “Rise and Walk: The Trial and Triumph of Dennis Byrd,” and a television movie in 1994. Byrd was born Oct. 5, 1966, in Oklahoma City, and he played for the University of Tulsa before the Jets drafted him in the second round in 1989. Derrick Gragg, the university’s vice president and director of athletics, said in a statement that Byrd “exemplified true determination, tremendous heart and humility throughout his life. ” “He overcame great personal adversity after a   injury on the football field,” Gragg added. “We know that Dennis touched numerous lives and will be missed by many. ” Byrd became a motivational speaker and traveled across the country, sharing his life story, writing hundreds of letters a year and spending time with others who had neck and   injuries. The Jets presented him with an award as the team’s most inspirational player of 1992, and they have given the Dennis Byrd Award to the most inspirational Jet every year since. In 2010, Byrd sent Rex Ryan, then the Jets’ head coach, the No. 90 jersey that had been ripped from his torso after he was injured. In 2012, Byrd became the fifth player in the franchise’s history to have his number retired. Byrd lived in Talala, Okla. about 40 miles northeast of Tulsa, with his wife, Angela, and their four children, according to the Jets’ website. The website quoted Byrd as having said: “Football has always been, for me, a cornerpost of strength and a way to accomplish things in life, whether it’s on the field or just in maintaining a quality of life. All those lessons  —   dedication, perseverance, teamwork  —   they all dovetail nicely into living a blessed life. ”