For a deal that took six months of battling back and forth, the message of its collapse was cursory. In a brief telephone conversation early Tuesday morning, Robert J. Dickey, the chief executive of the Gannett Company, told his counterpart at the company formerly known as Tribune Publishing that Gannett, the nation’s largest chain of newspapers, was dropping its $680   takeover bid  —   weeks after a price had been agreed upon. A deal would have merged the publisher of USA Today with the owner of The Los Angeles Times and The Chicago Tribune. It was intended to build a scale large enough to cut costs and eke out profits in an industry struggling with shrinking advertising revenue and declining circulations. Over the six months when the two companies sparred over a deal, the advertising market for newspapers was deteriorating. Last week, the banks that would have financed a purchase balked. Now, the two newspaper chains will seek their own diverging paths to meeting the challenges of shrinking advertising revenue and declining circulations. Yet for the acquisitive Gannett, few other newspaper chains offer as much opportunity as the company now known as Tronc. And the former Tribune Publishing is pursuing a   approach to journalism that has led some in the industry to scratch their heads. This account of how the deal fell apart is based on interviews with a number of people close to the negotiations. They were not authorized to speak publicly about confidential discussions. The talks between Gannett and Tronc had a rocky start. Tronc rejected two bids after Gannett first approached it with an offer in April. By August, a higher price brought Tronc back to the negotiating table, but all the while its advisers were skeptical that Gannett could come up with the financing. But by   the two sides shook hands on an   $18.   deal. Gannett had enlisted Jefferies, SunTrust Banks and PNC Financial Services to help finance the deal. The almost $1 billion required would have been one of the most expensive leveraged loans signed this year. Then, last week, Gannett announced layoffs for 2 percent of its work force and quarterly results that showed its print advertising revenue had plummeted. The report raised concerns among both SunTrust and PNC’s internal committees that financing a newspaper merger was too risky, so they balked. Representatives from Jefferies and PNC declined to comment. A SunTrust spokeswoman did not respond to requests seeking comment. In its statement Tuesday morning, Tronc said, “It is unfortunate that Gannett’s lenders made their decision to terminate their role in the transaction without the benefit of Tronc’s   financials or any future projections. ” Tronc’s results on Tuesday also showed declines in advertising revenue. Though two of Gannett’s banks walked, a third, Jefferies, was still committed. And other potential lenders had reached out to Gannett to see if they could help get a deal done. As recently as Saturday morning, Tronc was under the impression that Gannett still wanted to pursue the combination. But when Gannett’s board met Monday night, it was clear that the will to persist with a transaction had faded. Tronc had pushed Gannett to agree to a deal that was the pinnacle of what the company could pay  —   and as their industry deteriorated, Gannett no longer wanted to pay it. In a statement on Tuesday, Gannett said that it “had a number of financing options available and determined to terminate discussions with Tronc after considering both accretion to shareholders and whether the terms make sense for the company. ” Shares of Tronc tumbled more than 20 percent on Tuesday, before closing down more than 12 percent. Shares of Gannett declined 2. 3 percent. Its stock price has declined more than 50 percent since it made its acquisition proposal public in April. For the newspaper industry broadly, the collapse of the deal was another indication of the financial uncertainty facing it. An acquisition of Tronc would have been an aggressive bet by Gannett, which has traditionally bought newspapers in small or midsize markets. A deal for the owner of newspapers like The Los Angeles Times and The Chicago Tribune could have helped Gannett attract more lucrative national advertising and achieve savings by combining some operations. Gannett’s deal making has been watched closely in a media industry that is desperately trying to find new sources of revenue as print advertising income continues to decline. Part of its strategy has been to offset advertising declines by acquiring more papers and the revenue that comes with them. “What Gannett’s trying to do is aggregate as many eyeballs as they can to become big enough to be the last one standing,” said Alan D. Mutter, who teaches media economics at the University of California, Berkeley and writes about the media on the blog Reflections of a Newsosaur. Earlier this year, Gannett acquired the Journal Media Group for about $280 million, adding 15 daily newspapers including The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. It also recently bought the North Jersey Media Group, which owns The Record of Bergen County, N. J. But as it has spread across the United States, Gannett has garnered a reputation as a brutal   stripping out excess and sometimes cutting to the bone in a quest for profit. Over the years, it has bought newspapers, then consolidated printing operations at regional presses and shuttered redundant facilities. It has moved newspaper production to central hubs, sold off real estate and laid off thousands of employees. When asked about Gannett’s appetite for acquisitions during its earnings call last Thursday, Mr. Dickey, the chief executive of Gannett, said the company was “committed to the strategy of building out our local footprint. ” There are a dwindling number of potential targets left that could give Gannett greater scale. Lee Enterprises, which owns more than 40 daily newspapers, including The St. Louis   has a market capitalization of about $150 million, less than half the size of Tronc. Both A. H. Belo Corporation, which publishes The Dallas Morning News, and the McClatchy Company, publisher of The Miami Herald and The Fresno Bee, are even smaller. For Tronc, the collapse of the deal gives the company a chance to see through some of the investments it has made in technology. Michael W. Ferro Jr. a technology entrepreneur who in February took a $44 million stake in Tribune Publishing and became its executive chairman, has promoted a   approach with concepts like artificial intelligence and new bureaus for The Los Angeles Times in cities like Lagos, Nigeria, and Hong Kong that he has insisted will increase the value of the company beyond Gannett’s offer. In June, Mr. Ferro changed the company’s name to Tronc, which stands for Tribune Online Content, and moved the stock listing to the Nasdaq stock market from the New York Stock Exchange to make it seem more like a    technology  . On Tuesday, Justin Dearborn, Tronc’s chief executive, noted “the distractions” the company has faced in pursuing a sale to Gannett. He added, “While we are in the early stages of executing our strategy, we remain confident in the strength of our core brands and assets and committed to our   plans. ”