NEWARK  —   In his latest move to reshape the hierarchy of the Roman Catholic Church in the United States, Pope Francis on Monday named a moderate known for standing up for refugees and nuns to be the next leader of the Archdiocese of Newark, a large and troubled diocese. Francis’ pick is Joseph W. Tobin, currently the archbishop of Indianapolis. He made national headlines last year when he rebuffed Gov. Mike Pence of Indiana, now the Republican   nominee, by insisting that Catholic Charities continue to resettle refugees from Syria. Archbishop Tobin is so clearly in the pope’s favor that he is among 17 churchmen being made cardinals in Rome this month. The Archdiocese of Newark has never before been led by a cardinal, the rank of those entrusted to select new popes. His transfer to New Jersey places him in    proximity of the nation’s media capital, where Cardinal Timothy M. Dolan of New York is now the   spokesman on Catholic matters. At a news conference at Sacred Heart Cathedral in Newark on Monday, Archbishop Tobin said he was surprised at both of his new appointments and could not explain why the pope had tapped him for two   roles. The two men first met at a synod in Rome in 2005. “Sometimes I think that Pope Francis sees a lot more in me than I see in myself,” he said. Archbishop Tobin, whose formal title is now   is replacing Archbishop John J. Myers, a conservative who is among a small minority of American prelates who announced long ago that Catholic politicians who support abortion rights should not receive Holy Communion. Archbishop Myers’s tenure was hobbled in recent years after he failed to ensure that a priest convicted of child sexual abuse no longer had access to children. He was also widely criticized for using more than half a million dollars of church money to build an addition onto his weekend home that included three fireplaces, a whirlpool and elevator, even while he was closing schools. In September, Archbishop Myers suspended the Rev. Warren Hall from ministry, accusing the priest of “confusing the faithful” by publicly supporting some gay rights groups and a Catholic high school counselor who had been fired for marrying her female partner. Archbishop Myers exemplified the church’s “culture warrior model of leadership” while Archbishop Tobin is in sync with Francis’ emphasis on dialogue, said Michael Sean Winters, a columnist at the National Catholic Reporter, an independent   publication, and a visiting fellow at Catholic University of America’s Institute for Policy Research and Catholic Studies. At the news conference, Archbishop Tobin said he was concerned that the “    mentality” that had polarized the country had also infected the church, but that the church could help the country heal the divide after the election. He said that Cardinal Dolan had called him on Monday morning to welcome him. Asked if he anticipated that they would have a competitive relationship, Archbishop Tobin said, “If there’s any competition, I hope it’s who can serve the people of God best. ” Bishops are required to submit retirement letters to the Vatican when they turn 75, but are often kept in their posts far longer. Archbishop Myers turned 75 in July. Francis has quickly accepted his retirement, while allowing one of his most prominent American allies, the archbishop of Washington, Cardinal Donald Wuerl, to continue to serve for a year beyond his 75th birthday, in November 2015. Newark is one of the 10 largest dioceses in the country and one of the most ethnically diverse, with about 1. 5 million Catholics in 214 parishes that offer Mass in 20 languages, said Jim Goodness, a spokesman for the archdiocese. The news that Archbishop Tobin had been chosen to lead it was first reported by NJ Advance Media. Archbishop Tobin is to be formally installed in Newark on Jan. 6. He is 64, a native of Detroit and the oldest of 13 children  —   an experience that taught him, he said, that “you can’t hog the bathroom. ” He belongs to a religious order of missionaries, the Redemptorists, and served as the order’s superior general for 12 years, based in Rome. Besides English, he speaks Italian, French, Portuguese and Spanish. He was serving as the   official in the Vatican office that dealt with priests, brothers and nuns in religious orders as the Vatican conducted two investigations of American nuns over accusations that they had strayed from doctrine. While some American bishops encouraged the investigations, Archbishop Tobin was supportive of the nuns and questioned the Vatican’s intervention. Francis’ predecessor, Pope Benedict XVI, transferred Archbishop Tobin to Indianapolis in 2012 before he had served his usual   term at the Vatican, a move widely seen as a consequence of his advocacy of the nuns. Francis ended the investigations and expressed appreciation for the women in a surprise meeting at the Vatican last year. “Women Religious see Archbishop Tobin as a friend and a brother and an ally,” said Sister Mary Pellegrino, president of the Leadership Conference of Women Religious, which was a target of the Vatican’s investigation. “The sisters I know in the Indianapolis diocese are saddened, but the folks I know in Newark are delighting in this, and that says a lot. ”