Perhaps you didn’t gather enough information in the first year and a half of the campaign. Perhaps you thought you had made up your mind and cast your ballot early, only to have a   change of heart. It happens. We’re sorry to say it’s probably too late to do anything about it. With the exceptions of absentee voters in three states  —   New York, Pennsylvania and Mississippi  —   people who have already voted cannot still change their minds. Based on recent Google searches, it seems some Americans are having buyer’s remorse. Searches for “change early voting” and “change my vote” peaked on Nov. 2 and have continued through Election Day. In Wisconsin, absentee voters could change their minds up to three times, but the deadline to do so passed last week, according to the Wisconsin Elections Commission. Unlike in Pennsylvania, voters cannot void their previous ballots in person at their polling places. Reid Magney, a spokesman for the Wisconsin Elections Commission, said 3, 027 voters had voided their ballots as of Friday afternoon. The state is expecting 3. 1 million votes. Those people are not necessarily changing their votes. Several people have said they don’t trust that their absentee ballots will be accurately counted and have decided to vote in person, he said. Still, there is a small window for a few voters to change their minds. Pennsylvania does not allow early voting, but those who voted by an absentee ballot could cast a different vote if they were able to show up in person at their polling place, according to PennLive. In that case, the absentee ballot  —   presumably cast because the person would be unable to vote in person  —   would be voided. Absentee voters in Mississippi can also void an absentee ballot by voting in person, according to Leah Rupp Smith, a Department of State spokeswoman. Absentee voters in New York have the same option, according to John Conklin, a spokesman for the state’s board of elections. Connecticut voters can void an absentee ballot until 10 a. m. on Election Day by making a request at the municipal clerk’s office. In other states, early voters could have pulled a switcheroo a little earlier, but at this point their civic duty has been recorded, no  . Minnesotans who voted early could have asked to cancel their ballot, but the deadline was a week ago. Absentee voters in Michigan saw their deadline pass on Monday, according to WZZM, a local TV station.