A big life change does not come easily. That might seem a bit obvious, because if it were easy, chances are you would have made the big life change that’s on your list of changes you would really like to make. But you haven’t. So my question for you is this: Why not? What’s stopping you from just doing it? It might be money, family obligations, fear or just feeling stuck. If you’re at all like me, you see people doing something transformative, like going to medical school at 45, because they couldn’t imagine being an accountant for 20 more years. It seems magical, like one day they just decided to make it happen. For some people (a tiny few, I suspect) it might work that way. I have found, however, that most of the time, it’s much less magical. In truth, it’s a slog. It takes years of thinking and planning. But after plenty of practice, I think I’ve figured out how to streamline things a bit. You may want to try it yourself. First, embrace the uncertainty of life. As much as we don’t like to admit it, life is uncertain. We never know exactly where it will take us. If you doubt me, go back 10 years and ask yourself where you thought you’d be now. I doubt it looks exactly like you planned. So start by being O. K. with the truth in the old saying, “People make plans, and God laughs. ” Second, be open to possibilities. Many times, we know we want to do something, but we don’t know what “it” is. Explore a bit. Brainstorm. Journal. Allow things to come up and be open to new ideas. Then, once you settle on something, it’s time to plan a bit. At this point, obstacles start to show up, particularly around money. My family first explored the idea of spending a year living outside the United States more than a decade ago. At the time, there were a bunch of reasons it didn’t make sense. Money was just one of them, but it was a big obstacle. So we kept weighing options. For you, it might be as simple as setting aside an hour a week to consider ways to move forward. Ask people who have done the thing you want to do. Use a little of that time you spend on social media for research instead. Little by little, a plan might emerge. If it doesn’t, maybe it’s not time, or it’s not the right plan. As you reach different obstacles, make sure you spend time questioning your assumptions. Maybe something you always considered true is nothing more than someone else’s opinion. Or maybe looking at it from a slightly different angle will produce a different result. Finally, as paths open, head down them. Don’t worry if you experience false starts. I can tell you there will be plenty of those, and you may only need a quick course correction. Almost all of the stories readers shared with me about doing   things involved changing plans, disappointment and lots of hard work. But almost all said that in the end, it was worth it. And one last thing. As you explore making big changes, please realize that maybe nothing needs to change. Sometimes, the permission we seek is to embrace what we have and accept that it brings us real happiness. It’s important to understand that there is nothing wrong with choosing not to change if that’s the right answer for you.