A man was fatally shot by the police at a public housing complex in Brooklyn on Saturday after he hit two officers with a police baton he had grabbed from one of them, the police said. The officers, who were in uniform, went to a building in the Van Dyke I Houses in the Brownsville neighborhood around 1:30 p. m. in response to a 911 call about a suspicious man, the police said. The officers approached a man on the building’s ninth floor and asked for his identification and a “scuffle” ensued, according to James Secreto, chief of the Police Department’s Housing Bureau. The man grabbed a baton from one of the officers and began hitting them both on the head, Chief Secreto said. Both officers then shot the man, who was pronounced dead at the scene, at 362 Sutter Avenue, the police said. Relatives and the police identified the man as Erickson Gomez Brito, 21, of 563 Mother Gaston Boulevard. One of the officers sustained a   gash on his head, the police said. Both officers were taken to Jamaica Hospital Medical Center for treatment, where they were in stable condition, the police said. Omahis Gomez Brito, 19, the victim’s sister, said her brother had been treated for depression three years ago but had not been taking medication recently. She also said he was treated for addiction at that time, but she did not specify for what. Speaking to reporters outside the building where she and Mr. Brito lived with their parents, Ms. Brito said: “I want justice for my brother. I want to know why they killed him. ” Mr. Brito’s father, Osiris Gomez, said in Spanish that his son was not violent. Mr. Brito’s aunt lives in the building where the shooting occurred, relatives said. Ms. Brito said the aunt lived on the first floor, and she was not sure why her brother was on the ninth. The   Van Dyke I complex is in the 73rd Precinct as well as in the middle of a   area that is among the poorest in the city, according to an analysis done by Queens College in 2014. There had been 12 homicides in the precinct this year, though none at the complex, Police Department statistics show. Katt Williams, who lives in the neighborhood, said she knew Mr. Brito. “Minds his business,” she said. “It’s sad. ”