Jurgen Klinsmann, whose status as coach of the United States men’s national team is under intense scrutiny, said Sunday night that he was “very comfortable” with his position and that he believed those calling for him to be fired were “being disrespectful” and “ignoring the facts” about his tenure as the team’s leader. Speaking in a telephone interview, Klinsmann  —   who had recently returned from Berlin, where he attended a state dinner last week with President Obama and Angela Merkel, the chancellor of Germany  —   said that he had exchanged text messages with Sunil Gulati, the president of U. S. Soccer, and that he expected to talk with Gulati in the coming days. That discussion will take place in the shadow of mounting criticism of Klinsmann’s performance and after the team’s two recent losses in qualifying for the 2018 World Cup in Russia, including a humiliating   defeat to Costa Rica on Tuesday that has many fans calling on Gulati to fire Klinsmann. “I’m not afraid,” Klinsmann said. “What you need to do is stick to the facts. Soccer is emotional, and a lot of people make conclusions without knowing anything about the inside of the team or the sport. I still believe we will get the points we need to qualify, and I am even confident we could win the group. ” He added: “The fact is, we lost two games. There is a lot of talk from people who don’t understand soccer or the team. ” Klinsmann, who is known for his upbeat disposition, could be overly optimistic. In countries that expect to reach the World Cup tournament, as the United States does every four years, starting the final round of qualifying with two losses generally means the coach’s job is in jeopardy  —   and Klinsmann acknowledged that he understands that. If Gulati decides to replace Klinsmann, it could be announced as soon as this week, according to several soccer executives familiar with the situation, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to publicly discuss a personnel decision. This could be an ideal time to make a switch: The United States does not play its next World Cup qualifier until March, allowing a new coach several months to get acclimated. Bruce Arena, who coached the national team from 1998 to 2006, is the top candidate to replace Klinsmann if Gulati decides to make a change. Klinsmann conceded that he understood the criticism  —   “I am not saying I have nothing to be blamed for,” he said  —   and in many other countries, he probably would have been fired after a disappointing flameout in the 2015 Gold Cup, the regional championship tournament the United States hosted, or after his team’s loss to Mexico in the Confederations Cup playoff later that year. That Gulati, who pursued Klinsmann for five years before hiring him in 2011, has stuck with him this long is indicative of how much Gulati has staked on Klinsmann, a former striker for Germany. Yet now, with calls for change from both inside and outside U. S. Soccer growing, the potential for a switch is significant. Many believe that Klinsmann’s constant tinkering with lineups and formations has kept the United States team from growing tactically, and some believe that the Americans’ collapse in the second half against Costa Rica last week was indicative of Klinsmann’s no longer being able to motivate his players. Klinsmann directly disputed that charge Sunday, saying he did not believe any players quit against Costa Rica, even as they gave up three goals after intermission. “There was nobody giving up at that time,” Klinsmann said. “That was a normal emotional situation when things go wrong. When they get the second goal there, it was like a knock in your neck. I played those games many, many times. The whole stadium goes bananas. It’s totally human to put your head down for a second. And then they counter us for two more. Those games will always happen. We just couldn’t stop it, but the players did not stop trying. ” Judging the national team’s arc in 2016 solely on those games, Klinsmann added, would be unfair. He said that this year had been “very, very successful” for the national team, citing the Americans’ run to the semifinals of the Copa América as well as the development of younger players like Bobby Wood and John Brooks. That Brooks, a defender, had two rough performances against Mexico and Costa Rica  —   particularly Costa Rica  —   is, as Klinsmann said, “part of the development process,” and one of the reasons he argued that making a coaching change would be a mistake. “We are coaching a team through a transitional phase,” Klinsmann said. “We still have to break in younger players. We still have to look for leadership for the team. There are still a lot of technical and chemistry challenges ahead that are normal in this time period. And you put the final pieces together as you go towards Russia, which I am absolutely sure we will do. ” From the very beginning of his relationship with Gulati, Klinsmann said, he has stressed that patience was crucial  —   a point he will probably try to make to Gulati when they speak about the team’s current situation. “I always made it clear to Sunil, if you really want to move up to the top 15 in the world, you need to have consistency in what you’re doing,” Klinsmann said. “If you react emotionally, you will become a roller coaster. ” Many would argue that Gulati and others at U. S. Soccer have given Klinsmann more than enough time. And although Klinsmann is confident, a poor result in the next qualifying game  —   at home against Honduras, with a trip to Panama scheduled days later  —   would make things even more tenuous. By that time, a coaching change on the fly would be especially difficult. That is why it is expected that a resolution of the coaching situation will be reached soon. Klinsmann will either receive a vote of confidence or be fired. Either way, it has been an emotional few days for the coach, who traveled to Germany from Costa Rica and said he spent “an amazing” two and a half hours with President Obama and other world leaders. Klinsmann presented President Obama with a German national team jersey with the No. 44 on the back, and gave Merkel a United States jersey with the No. 1 on it. Of course, even President Obama asked Klinsmann a question about the national team situation. “He said, ‘It didn’t go well down there in Costa Rica, did it? ’” Klinsmann recalled. “And I said, ‘Nope, Mr. President  —   it didn’t go well at all. ’”