LONDON  —   Joe Corré, the son of Malcolm McLaren, the Sex Pistols manager who defined the band’s direction in its brief heyday in the late 1970s, set fire to what he claimed was £5 million (about $6. 25 million) worth of punk memorabilia aboard a boat on the Thames River here on Saturday. “Punk has become another marketing tool to sell you something you don’t need,” Mr. Corré said to a crowd of dozens gathered on the shore in London’s Chelsea district, as flames licked at a trunk of punk paraphernalia and fireworks shot from the boat into the late afternoon sky. “If you want to understand the potent values of punk, confront taboos. Do not tolerate hypocrisy. Investigate the truth for yourself. ” Mr. Corré, a household name in Britain, is known as the son of McLaren and the fashion designer Vivienne Westwood, and as a founder of the racy lingerie brand Agent Provocateur. He announced this spring that he would burn his personal punk collection to protest Punk London, a celebration of the genre, timed to the 40th anniversary of a 1976 Ramones concert in the city that is said to mark punk’s arrival in Britain. Saturday’s bonfire coincided with the anniversary of the release of the Sex Pistols’ single “Anarchy in the U. K.,” which put England’s seminal punk band on the map. The items set on fire included a pair of bondage trousers that had been   for Mr. Corré as a child rare posters live punk recordings and pants that had belonged to John Lydon, a. k. a. Johnny Rotten, the lead singer of the Sex Pistols, according to a news release sent by a publicist for Mr. Corré. Punk London, which includes exhibitions at venues like the British Library, has drawn protests from   fans, who lament the movement’s   by mainstream culture. Mr. Corré has called the series a betrayal of punk’s countercultural values and has claimed that Queen Elizabeth II endorses it. (The queen has issued no public statements on Punk London, and a spokeswoman for Buckingham Palace reached by phone said the palace had no comment on the events.) As the blaze died down on Saturday, Ms. Westwood, a   addition to the proceedings, poked her head out from a green   bus carrying some members of Mr. Corré’s crew. “By the end of this century, by 2100, there’ll only be one billion people left,” Ms. Westwood said to the crowd in a speech that argued that a   of bankers and politicians was driving climate change. “We’ll all be migrants, all trying to get to the green part. ” As a wailing fire truck arrived, Ms. Westwood urged the crowd to support green energy. “It’s the most important thing you could do in your life,” she said. “Let’s all have a laugh and stay alive. Bye,” she added, before disappearing into the bus. Saturday’s bonfire was heavily publicized by Mr. Corré, who earlier in the week in front of Buckingham Palace burned a   featuring an image of the queen. On Thursday, he held a news conference about the bonfire, and announced that his mother would attend. (He also noted there that 80 percent of the proceeds from a planned documentary about the event would go to charity.) A crowd of journalists, punks and   watched as the fire grew on Saturday, whooping when the first fireworks went off. In addition to the trunk of punk memorabilia, Mr. Corré incinerated several human effigies modeled on conservative politicians, like Boris Johnson, London’s former mayor and an advocate for Britain’s exit from the European Union, and the prime minister, Theresa May. A band on board the ship played   music as the bonfire burned. A few leather jackets and   heads bobbed about in the crowd gathered on the street, as did some more stereotypical Chelsea denizens: Early in the proceedings, a woman in a chic   coat, sun hat and heavy red lipstick emerged from a Bentley to watch the fire. After the bonfire, Mr. Corré returned to shore to speak with journalists. When one reporter noted that the entire event could be a hoax, as the press was not able to verify the value of the materials on board, Mr. Corré dismissed the comment with an expletive and said: “You’ve seen it, you’ve seen it. What are you talking about, a hoax?” An hour after the event began, the green bus pulled away, carrying Mr. Corré, Ms. Westwood and their coterie. Some photographers and visitors lingered. Bajowoo Park, 32, a South Korean designer who lives in Tokyo, stood looking out at the boat. He had heavy, ghoulish mascara around his eyes and wore a surgical mask with a hole ripped through the mouth. Mr. Park had flown to London just for the event, he said. He had learned about it on the internet and explained he was disappointed that the crowd was so small. He noted that he had expected deeper interest from a country considered one of punk’s homelands. “Not many people,” Mr. Park said. The “world is very big,” he added. “And punk started here. ”