No one would dispute that Miami has put itself on the map of places that matter in the visual arts world, largely because of the    fair Art Basel Miami Beach. But what happens when the circus leaves town? Much more than in the past. Few cities have come so far and so fast as Miami in terms of creating new,   arts institutions. The last three years in particular have been a flurry of activity  —   indeed, many of the biggest museums and cultural centers weren’t around before 2013, or they existed in smaller, less ambitious forms. Buildings designed by acclaimed international architects have been constructed or are underway,   campaigns have struck gold with a few choice donors, and leaders for the new institutions have flocked to Miami from all over. “It’s remarkably robust,” said Thomas Collins, now the executive director and president of the Barnes Foundation in Philadelphia. He lived in Miami for six years, helping to start 2013’s Pérez Art Museum Miami (known as PAMM, and formerly the Miami Art Museum) and its new facility, designed by the renowned Swiss architecture firm Herzog  de Meuron. “Every time someone launched a new institution, I thought, ‘This is it, we don’t have enough resources or audience,’” Mr. Collins said. “But that hasn’t proven true. ” The newest entry, debuting this week, is one of the most unusual: Miami Beach’s Faena Forum, a structure topped by a dome and oculus that was designed by the architect Rem Koolhaas’s firm, OMA, at a cost of some $150 million. The Forum, intended to anchor the larger Faena District in the   area, will host programming by the separate nonprofit group Faena Art, but will also be put to other noncultural uses, including   events. Faena Art is the brainchild of two Argentines, the real estate developer and hotelier Alan Faena and his wife, the curator Ximena Caminos. It aims to fill a gap in local cultural offerings, with an emphasis on performance rather than static exhibitions. Some will occur at the Forum, and some elsewhere, and all the events are free. The   Forum was supposed to open a year ago. “It’s finally here,” said Ms. Caminos, who directs Faena Art. She and Mr. Faena moved to Miami three years ago. They started the Faena Art programming with a typically nontraditional event this week, a “processional” called “Tide by Side” that was conceived by the performance art specialist Claire Tancons. “The scene has been developing,” Ms. Caminos said of Miami. “It’s stronger and more layered. ” Despite the opening events this week that are timed to the art fairs, “We want to change the center of gravity to other parts of the year,” Ms. Caminos said. “It can’t only be driven by Art Basel. We’re more focused on locals, not those migratory birds. ” Faena Art’s performance and lecture series, “Soledades,” began this week at Faena Forum with a dance event, “Once With Me, Once Without Me. ” In the spring the Forum will host the Biennale of Moving Images. Many of the leaders of the other top institutions also hail from elsewhere, including Franklin Sirmans, a former curator at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art who succeeded Mr. Collins as director of PAMM a year ago. Mr. Sirmans noted one of the traditional strengths of the city. “One of the distinctions of Miami is that we have all these private collections,” he said, referring to the Rubell Family Collection, the de la Cruz Collection and the Margulies Collection, among others, all of which are open to the public. “But as the public museum, our responsibility is different,” he said, referring to the PAMM’s effort to reach a large audience with varied programming. Heterogeneity, he said, is baked into Miami’s art scene. “That’s another distinctive thing about us,” Mr. Sirmans said. “Most people are from somewhere else.   percent or so speak Spanish, 50 percent are not born here. We are a city that builds itself off our diversity. ” Latin America is a natural focus for PAMM and is reflected in the programming at the museum, which in November introduced three exhibitions including “Julio Le Parc: Form into Action,” a survey of the   artist that remains on view until March 19. The museum just announced that it received a large new gift from the benefactor whose name is already on the door  —   the billionaire real estate developer Jorge M. Pérez  —   consisting of $10 million cash and a group of 200 works by Cuban artists valued at $5 million. Mr. Pérez, whose initial $40 million gift   the museum’s building project, said that as a younger city than New York or Boston, Miami was still developing its philanthropic habits. “Our money is new money,” he said. Mr. Pérez added that having strong   programming was the key to staying vibrant. “It’s great for Miami to have a place that tourists come to,” he said. “But the main reason for the museum is to serve Miamians. ” Mr. Sirmans stressed that the museum was not relying on just one donor to fuel its future ambitions. “It’s not only the usual suspects,” he said of PAMM’s patrons. “It’s a deeper bench than you think. ” The collectors Irma and Norman Braman are solely funding 2017’s most important opening, a new Design District home for the Institute of Contemporary Art, Miami. The ICA. founded in 2014, has been operating in temporary quarters, but next December it plans to move into a   foot building by the Spanish architectural firm Aranguren + Gallegos Arquitectos (the cost has not yet been disclosed). The ICA’s new director, Ellen Salpeter, started her job less than a year ago, after working as a deputy director at the Jewish Museum in New York. With the wave of new institutions, the leadership of each one is thinking about how to distinguish itself among the others. The ICA, Ms. Salpeter said, is “nimble, a smaller museum than the Pérez. We’re something you can duck into and see a show. ” She added that the role of the ICA, which has free admission, thanks to philanthropic support from a variety of patrons, was to stage groundbreaking exhibits, like the current show, “One Day on Success Street,” the first major American survey of the German artist Thomas Bayrle. “We specialize in firsts,” Ms. Salpeter said. She said that the Miami art scene still had a ways to go, especially in terms of art galleries and small, nonprofit spaces. But there are certainly signs the Miami wave has not yet crested, as even the older institutions spruce themselves up. The Bass Museum of Art, a contemporary museum founded in 1964, is closed as it undergoes a $12 million renovation scheduled to be revealed this spring. Ms. Salpeter echoed the other Miami leaders in saying that the   activity, rather than creating an adversarial environment, was welcome. She added, “A rising tide lifts all boats. ”