An unarmed man who was fatally shot in Bakersfield, Calif. by an officer who thought he had a gun was actually carrying a crucifix, the police say. The family of the man, Francisco Serna, 73, who said he had dementia, is demanding a Justice Department investigation into the actions of the Police Department, which previously came under scrutiny for its use of deadly force. The Bakersfield police chief, Lyle Martin, said at a news conference  on Tuesday that officers did not find a gun on Mr. Serna after he was killed on Monday and that the department was conducting its own investigation into the shooting. According to the police, a woman who lives across the street from Mr. Serna was removing items from a vehicle outside her home when she noticed a man standing behind her. He turned out to be Mr. Serna. She said he asked if he could get in the car. He was allowed only to look into the vehicle, and the woman went inside her house, the chief said. The woman later said she had believed that Mr. Serna had a firearm because his hand was in his jacket, and she saw an object with a handle, the chief said. She told her husband about the encounter, and he called the police to report a man outside with a gun. “He is brandishing a firearm,” the husband said, according to a recording of the 911 call, which was published by KERO television station. He said the man was an “older Mexican gentleman” and that it looked like the firearm was a revolver. “He could be the neighbor across the street or a visitor I am not for sure. ” When officers arrived, the woman pointed out Mr. Serna as he left his house, Chief Martin said. The police said they shouted to Mr. Serna to take his hands out of his jacket and to stop walking toward them. But he continued and entered the woman’s driveway, officials said. Mr. Serna was about 15 to 20 feet away when Officer Reagan Selman fired seven times, the chief said. Mr. Serna, who the police said was hit by five of the bullets, fell. Efforts by the police and medics to revive him were not successful. Chief Martin said that he was “unable to describe” the object found with Mr. Serna. But Sgt. Gary Carruesco later said a “dark colored simulated wood grain” crucifix was found. “We thought we were dealing with an armed subject,” Chief Martin said. He said that officers did not have any information about Mr. Serna’s dementia and that they had to make a decision about the use of force in 20 to 30 seconds. He said there was no indication the older man had been “lunging or threatening or anything of that nature. ” Officer Selman joined the force in July 2015, and it was the first time he had been involved in such a shooting, the police said. He and the other officers were placed on administrative leave while the case was investigated, the chief said. Mr. Serna’s family said he had dementia and would take short walks in the neighborhood to help him sleep, The Associated Press reported. Symptoms of dementia can include confusion and wandering, according to the Alzheimer’s Association. At a vigil on Tuesday night, a family spokeswoman said Mr. Serna’s relatives had asked for an investigation by the  Department of Justice and for the California attorney general to appoint an independent investigator, The Los Angeles Times reported. The shooting has prompted renewed calls for greater scrutiny of the use of force by the police in Bakersfield, the biggest city in Kern County, where the police in 2015 killed more people per capita than in any other county in the United States, an investigation by The Guardian showed. Chief Martin, who was promoted to his position this week, said that once he has his command staff in place, he will meet with local groups that have called for greater openness about the department’s use of force. “This is a very delicate situation,” he said.