TOKYO  —   When President Obama made a historic visit to Hiroshima in May, there was no question that he was the first sitting American president to do so. But as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe prepares to pay his respects at Pearl Harbor on Tuesday, Japanese officials are scrambling to identify what, exactly, is unprecedented about his reciprocal visit. Mr. Abe announced this month that he would visit Pearl Harbor. Japan’s Foreign Ministry, in news briefings, indicated at the time that he would be the first sitting Japanese prime minister to visit Pearl Harbor, the site of the surprise attack on a United States naval base 75 years ago. It turns out, though, that he might not be the first, or even the second. It now appears that he is the fourth. A few days after Mr. Abe announced his visit, news reports emerged that a predecessor, Shigeru Yoshida, had stopped in Hawaii in 1951 on his way home from signing a treaty in San Francisco and had paid a quiet visit to Pearl Harbor. And last week, a   newspaper in Hawaii reported that it had found in its archives articles about two other visits there by sitting Japanese prime ministers in the 1950s, including Nobusuke Kishi, Mr. Abe’s grandfather. In response to the reports, Japanese officials are now characterizing Mr. Abe’s visit as the first by a sitting prime minister with an American president to the memorial atop the remains of the U. S. S. Arizona, the American battleship on which the worst losses occurred. Mr. Abe will accompany Mr. Obama to the memorial, which was constructed in 1962. After the existence of the prior visits was reported, Japan’s Foreign Ministry acknowledged that in 1956 Prime Minister Ichiro Hatoyama had visited the United States Pacific Command in Honolulu, and that Mr. Kishi had followed in 1957. Mr. Kishi was also reported to have visited the National Memorial Cemetery of the Pacific, a mountaintop shrine dedicated to the American dead in several wars. Mr. Abe’s office said that “it was difficult to confirm as it was contained in records more than 60 years ago. ” It is possible that the current government did not realize that the prime minister’s predecessors had visited Pearl Harbor. Robert Dujarric, the director of the Institute of Contemporary Asian Studies at Temple University in Tokyo, said he was not familiar with either Mr. Hatoyama’s or Mr. Kishi’s visits. “They weren’t big time, official state visits,” he said. At the time, the news media on both sides of the Pacific provided scant coverage. The New York Times did not cover any of the prime ministers’ visits to Pearl Harbor, and both The Associated Press and The Nikkei Shimbun of Japan described Mr. Kishi’s visit to Honolulu without mentioning Pearl Harbor. In a memoir, Mr. Hatoyama recounted his trip to Honolulu and his stop at the United States Pacific Command. “In front of the building, the Army brass band was ready and they fired a   salute and the band played the Japanese national anthem for me,” Mr. Hatoyama wrote. “It happened at the top of a hill overlooking Pearl Harbor, so I got a catch in my throat. ” Mr. Abe apparently did not know that his grandfather, Mr. Kishi, had been to Pearl Harbor. Mr. Abe has professed his desire to fulfill his grandfather’s thwarted effort to revise the pacifist clause in Japan’s Constitution. Historians speculated that the prime ministers who visited Pearl Harbor in the 1950s would have kept a low profile because the wounds of the attack were still raw and the United States and Japan were establishing the terms of their postwar alliance. What’s more, said Hironao Suzuki, a professor of political science at Shizuoka University, the “political conflict between the left and right was so fierce that there might have been concern that the public might not accept the visits. ” In postwar Japan, the left assailed the Japanese alliance with the United States, while the right defended Japan’s actions during World War II as a matter of  . The Americans also had strategic reasons to treat the early Japanese visits to Pearl Harbor with delicacy. “For the American public, also, we had to do this real pirouette from vilifying the inhuman, disgusting, vile Japanese to being our best friends in the Pacific,” said Jeff Kingston, the director of Asian studies at Temple University in Tokyo. And in the case of Mr. Kishi, who was accused of war crimes (although he was never indicted) the American government might have been reluctant to highlight his trip to Pearl Harbor. “There was no possible gain to be made from making this public,” Mr. Kingston said. “And there was some political risk at making it known. ” In answering questions about why the Japanese government had not recognized the earlier visits, Yoshihide Suga, Mr. Abe’s chief cabinet secretary, told reporters on Monday that Mr. Abe would be “the first to express remorse” at the Pearl Harbor memorial. Indeed, the politics of apology began to gain currency only in the 1980s, said Alexis Dudden, a professor at the University of Connecticut who specializes in modern Japanese history. Both Mr. Hatoyama and Mr. Kishi would have stopped in Hawaii because they needed to make refueling stops on the way home from Washington. And when they visited the United States Pacific Command, Ms. Dudden said, “those were more likely visits of assurance that in fact now the Cold War was up and running and Japan was very much an ally. ” Mr. Abe’s visit, on the other hand, represents “a formulaic understanding of contrition that enables a nation to reinstate itself as sufficiently contrite in order to move on into the future,” she said. For those on the left in Japan, as well as critics in China, South Korea and elsewhere, the prime minister’s visit to Pearl Harbor ignores Japanese aggression closer to home in Asia. “I can only hope that building on this visit, Abe will take the opportunity to go to Nanjing and Seoul,” Ms. Dudden said. Other historians said that whether Mr. Abe was the first or fourth prime minister to visit Pearl Harbor was less significant than what he does when he is there. “What we should watch is what Mr. Abe will say,” said Masayasu Hosaka, a historian who has written books about the wartime Emperor Hirohito and Prime Minister Hideki Tojo. “That’s more important. How his speech will be evaluated historically and internationally is more interesting. ”