■ President Trump would not say whether he favors lifting sanctions imposed on Russia for its invasion of Ukraine and meddling in the election, as his British counterpart rejected such a move. ■ Battle lines are forming within the Republican Party ahead of Mr. Trump’s phone call Saturday with Russia’s president, Vladimir V. Putin. ■ The commander in chief said his defense secretary will “override” his views in favor of torture. President Trump said on Friday that it was “very early” to be talking about lifting sanctions on Russia, deflecting a question about whether he would raise the issue with Russian President Vladimir V. Putin on Saturday morning even as his British counterpart flatly rejected such a move. Speaking to reporters after a meeting with Theresa May, the British prime minister, Mr. Trump did not say whether he supports keeping sanctions that were put in place following Russia’s military involvement in Ukraine and its interference in the 2016 election. But he said he hoped to have a good relationship with Mr. Putin. “If we could have a great relationship with Russia and with China and with all countries, I’m all for that,” Mr. Trump said in a brief answer to the question. Ms. May was more direct in her answer to the question about sanctions on Russia. She said the United Kingdom “believes that the sanctions should continue. ” The answers highlight what could be one of the differences between the two leaders, even as both of them insisted Friday that they plan to continue the close working relationship that has long existed between the two nations. President Trump’s phone call scheduled on Saturday with Russia’s president  —   their first conversation since Mr. Trump took office  —   has Republicans on edge. As one of his last acts as president, Barack Obama imposed sanctions on Russia for interfering in the election to help install Mr. Trump in the Oval Office. Senator John McCain of Arizona, chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, warned Mr. Trump on Friday against lifting the sanctions. What came next was a list of Russian abuses: its invasion of Ukraine, its annexation of Crimea and its support of “the murderous Assad regime as it has waged war on the Syrian people and killed more than 400, 000 civilians. ” Then came this: “And in the most flagrant demonstration of Putin’s disdain and disrespect for our nation, Russia deliberately interfered in our recent election with cyberattacks and a disinformation campaign designed to weaken America and discredit Western values. ” UPDATE: Another Republican senator, Rob Portman of Ohio, joins in: President Trump said Friday that he will let his secretary of defense “override” him by banning torture even though he believes the tactics do work in getting information out of terror suspects. In a remarkable show of deference to his own subordinate, Mr. Trump noted that Jim Mattis, the Pentagon chief, does not believe torture is effective. The president, who serves as the commander in chief and usually makes the final call on military action, said he will let Mr. Mattis decide. “I don’t necessarily agree, but I will tell you that he will override because I’m giving him that power,” Mr. Trump said. “I’m going to rely on him. I happen to feel that it does work. ” Mr. Trump appeared to be struggling about the issue even as he spoke, returning several times to his own belief in torture’s effectiveness even as he stated several times that he would let Mr. Mattis would decide. “But I’m going with our leaders,” he said. “We are going to win, with or without. ” Then he added: “But I do disagree. ” President Trump spoke by phone on Friday with Enrique Peña Nieto, the president of Mexico, White House officials said, less than 24 hours after the Mexican president canceled a White House meeting over anger about Mr. Trump’s intentions to build a border wall. A senior White House official confirmed Friday that the call had taken place and said that an official description of what the two leaders said will be released soon. In the wake of the deepening diplomatic tensions on Thurdsday, aides to Mr. Trump had said they still intended to keep lines of communications between the two governments open. The call suggests that the two leaders may be attempting to reschedule the planned meeting. That could begin to repair the relationship in the short term, though differences will likely remain about construction of the border wall and who will finance it. Then again, Mr. Trump tweeted another salvo on Friday morning. Mr. Mattis on Friday ordered the review of the controversial   fighter jet program, which has been criticized by President Trump for its cost overruns. Mr. Mattis also ordered that plans for a new Air Force One  —   which has also come under fire from Mr. Trump  —  should be reviewed, “with the specific objective of identifying means to substantially reduce the programs costs while delivering needed capabilities. ” The   review, Mr. Mattis said in a memo, will also look at how to reduce costs while still meeting requirements set out for the fighter jet program. During his confirmation hearings earlier this month, Mr. Mattis defended tweets from Mr. Trump criticizing the   program. Mr. Mattis said at the time that Mr. Trump had “in no way shown a lack of support for the program. He just wants more bang for the buck. ” The cost of building the   fighter jet, the   Joint Strike Fighter, has been an issue at the Pentagon for several years. At an estimated $400 billion over 15 years for 2, 443 planes, the fighter jet is the military largest weapons project. Mr. Trump is just not going to give up his claim that 3 million to 5 million illegal immigrants voted for Hillary Clinton, but he’s grasping for evidence. On Friday morning, he looked to VoteStand, which calls itself “America’s first online fraud reporting app” for the smartphone but does not appear to actually exist beyond the Twitter account of its founder, Gregg Phillips. The president seemed to be responding to an interview with Mr. Phillips on CNN Friday morning that was, shall we say, inconclusive. Mr. Phillips at once said 3 million illegal immigrants voted and said he is still working to prove that. “You can reach a conclusion and still verify it,” he maintained. Mr. Phillips began pressing his case that 3 million illegal votes were cast shortly after Election Day in November, but pressed repeatedly, Mr. Phillips has never produced any evidence. As the debunking site Snopes. com wrote: Mr. Phillips has been adamant on Twitter of course. But as PolitiFact wrote, “There is no report. ” And that is not all Mr. Phillips has asserted. He now has an endorsement from the president of the United States. Mr. Trump’s fallacious argument that he lost the popular vote by nearly 3 million because of illegal immigrant ballots started as the stuff of wonderment and ridicule. Now that the Trump administration has shifted to an investigation of the voter rolls, things have gotten serious. Democrats appear to be girding for battle, but if, as is likely, Senator Jeff Sessions, a conservative from Alabama, becomes the attorney general, it does not appear to be a fight that the minority can win. The Democrats fear the hunt for illegal voters will become a pretext to tighten voting requirements nationwide and bar many minority voters who tend to side with the Democrats. Even moderate Democrats are alarmed. Word from Politico is that President Trump will not be attending the fancy,   Alfalfa Club dinner Saturday night, a chummy gathering with many of Washington’s politicians, journalists and every president since Ronald Reagan. Lest we get too excited  —   could the White House Correspondents Association dinner be next? Please?  —   we should wait and see. It is true that every president since Mr. Reagan has attended the annual roast and silly cabaret dinner of the Alfalfa Club, a     Washington clique that seems like it was hatched from a bygone era. But not many of those presidents have attended each year. Mr. Trump may yet keep the soiree alive. Mr. Trump traveled to the City of Brotherly Love on Thursday to decry Philadelphia’s rising murder rate  —   “I mean, just terribly increasing. ” But it isn’t. Last year’s 277 homicides was down from 280 in 2015. That is up from 2014, when 248 were murdered, and in 2013, when 246 were killed. But recent years are markedly down from 2007 to 2012 when Philadelphia had more than 300 killings, 391 in 2007 alone. “President Trump’s false statements today were an insult to the men and women of the Philadelphia police force  —   the very same men and women who are working long hours today to ensure his safety,” Mayor Jim Kenney said in a statement Thursday. Of course, in the era of alternative facts, Mayor Kenney may be spitting in the wind. The Trump administration’s decision to drop advertisements encouraging people to sign up for health insurance under the Affordable Care Act was greeted with anger and alarm by supporters of the law  —   and a recognition that Mr. Trump wants the law crippled. “This is sabotage, pure and simple,” fumed Leslie Dach, a senior official in President Barack Obama’s Department of Health and Human Services who now heads a coalition to save the law. “This proves that this administration doesn’t care about people who need health coverage. And it clearly shows that they now own the consequences of their efforts to undermine the health care system. ” The ads were to have run only for a few more days, until the annual open enrollment period ends on Tuesday. In the last few years, large numbers of consumers signed up just before the deadline. But Mr. Trump and Republicans in Congress are determined to repeal Mr. Obama’s signature domestic achievement. Since Nov. 1, more than 11. 5 million people have signed up for insurance or had their coverage automatically renewed. And when the enrollment period ends, it’s anyone’s guess who will announce the total number of people who would lose their insurance if the law is repealed. The leading candidate to be the Pentagon’s new spokesman is John Ullyot, a former Marine Corps intelligence officer and veteran of Capitol Hill. Mr. Ullyot served as spokesman and deputy chief of staff for two Republican senators, John W. Warner of Virginia and Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, and as spokesman for the Senate Armed Services Committee from 2003 to 2007.