HOUSTON  —    The first half of a ferocious game ended with bodies sprawled all over the place. At one end of the floor, Andre Iguodala of the Golden State Warriors rolled onto his stomach after a punishing fall so he could watch mayhem unfold at the other end: players scrambling at the buzzer, and then Stephen Curry emerging with a limp. Game 4 of the Warriors’   playoff series against the Houston Rockets on Sunday afternoon was a basketball mudslide, and Curry got the worst of it. In his   return from a right ankle sprain, Curry injured his right knee on the final play of the first half, appearing to have slipped on a wet spot while defending the Rockets’ Trevor Ariza. The Warriors played the rest of the game without him, escaping from the muck with a   victory that gave them a     lead in their    series. But Curry’s latest injury cast a pall on the visiting locker room  —   and any lingering effects could make the Warriors’ pursuit of another championship that much more challenging. The Warriors assessed the injury as a sprain, but Coach Steve Kerr said Curry would have a magnetic resonance imaging test Monday. Game 5 is scheduled for Wednesday night in Oakland, Calif. The Warriors were subdued in the wake of Sunday’s game. They mulled the possibility of postseason life without Curry, the league’s reigning most valuable player. “The one thing we all hate in life is uncertainty,” said Draymond Green, who had 18 points and 8 rebounds. “Whether that’s in a relationship, whether that’s in school, whether that’s knowing what’s being cooked  —   we hate uncertainty in life as humans. So the uncertainty with him of not knowing what’s going on  —   like, obviously, ‘Oh, he sprained his knee.’ But that’s what we think. That’s not what we know until he gets it scanned tomorrow. ” Curry struggled in 19 minutes of playing time, collecting 6 points and 5 assists while shooting 2 of 9 from the field. He also committed five turnovers, his rhythm jagged after he had missed the previous two games with his ankle injury. Kerr had wanted to exercise great caution with Curry. But in the closing seconds of the first half, there was a confluence of bad events: Donatas Motiejunas of the Rockets tripped and fell, leaving a slick spot on the court, and Curry had the misfortune of wading into it as he defended Ariza. Curry’s right leg gave out, and he tumbled. He hobbled off the court with his teammates. Curry briefly returned to the bench before the start of the second half. He tried to assure Kerr that he felt well enough to play. Kerr asked him to be honest. “He just put his head down,” Kerr said. Before Curry left again for the locker room, Green leaned in and said, “We got you. ” Sure enough, the Warriors surged in Curry’s absence, breaking open a tie game by outscoring the Rockets,   in the third quarter. The Warriors went on to smash an N. B. A. playoff record by making 21   in the game. They also had 38 assists on 46 field goals. Klay Thompson scored 23 points, and Iguodala added 22. “It didn’t surprise me one bit that we played so well in the second half,” Kerr said. “Our guys play for each other. ” Curry did not address the news media after the game. All day, though, he was the center of attention. At 1 p. m. about an hour and a half before the tip, the doors to Toyota Center opened to fans, and many congregated in a section of the lower bowl closest to the visiting locker room. Five minutes later, Curry walked across the court and laced up his sneakers. He proceeded to go about his familiar pregame routine. Five television cameras filmed his every move: the dribbling drills, the layups, the running bank shots and the heaves from 35 feet. Everything looked smooth and effortless, an ordinary afternoon at the office. There was nothing to indicate that his ankle was giving him any trouble. After 21 minutes, Curry left the court and entered the locker room, where he grabbed a foam roller and stretched his legs. He sang a bit of the theme music to the   basketball telecasts: “   !” His teammates laughed. At 1:50 p. m. the Warriors made official what everyone already knew: Curry was available to play. Until Sunday, fans had been limited to 20 minutes of the Steph Curry Experience in the postseason, all of them in Game 1 before he injured his ankle attempting to change directions. But they were 20 minutes   of his usual exploits: 24 points on    shooting, including 5 of 7 from   range. On Sunday, Curry got off to a halting start. He missed his first three shots, all   attempts. But he connected on his fourth shot, a driving layup off a steal. “It looked like his conditioning was fine,” Kerr said. “He just couldn’t get his rhythm, and I thought he was trying to do too much. ” Curry was also stuck with a most unpleasant companion. The Rockets’ Patrick Beverley made himself a nuisance  —   swatting at shots after the whistle, barking at Iguodala, breathing on Curry. But after Beverley left the game in the second quarter with a strained right leg, Curry soon followed  —   his immediate future unknown. “I just feel so bad for him,” Kerr said.