BALTIMORE  —   In opening the state’s case against Caesar R. Goodson Jr. the driver of the police van in which Freddie Gray suffered the spinal cord injury that killed him, the prosecutor uttered two crucial words: “Rough ride. ” Officer Goodson, the prosecutor said, intended to “bounce” Mr. Gray, a black man, around in the van that morning. Officer Goodson, who is also black, is facing the toughest charge  —     “depraved heart” murder  —   of the six officers accused in Mr. Gray’s death. And legal experts say the prosecution’s chances of a conviction on that count hinge in large part on being able to prove that Officer Goodson intentionally, and with disregard for Mr. Gray’s life, drove him dangerously. The defense rested its case Friday, and closing arguments are set for Monday. But just before the state rested its case earlier this week, a crucial prosecution witness said he could not say whether a rough ride had occurred  —   another indication of just how difficult the prosecution’s case may be. It has different names around the country, including “screen test” and “nickel ride. ” Since it is a colloquial term, not a legal one, the precise definition can vary. But, legal and policing experts say, there is an element of intent. “A rough ride is basically the police driving in such a manner to inflict injury or pain on the person being transported,” said A. Dwight Pettit, a lawyer in Baltimore, who has represented dozens of plaintiffs in police brutality cases, “because they have knowledge that the person is not secure in the vehicle and is usually handcuffed or possibly leg chained and therefore has no way to protect themselves. ” Geoffrey P. Alpert, a criminology professor at the University of South Carolina, said the tactic was known anecdotally as a form of punishment for unruly prisoners. “Normally,” he said, “it’s just kind of, they end up with a few bruises or, worst case, it’s a broken arm. ” On Wednesday, Stanford Franklin, a retired Baltimore police officer who was the prosecution’s key policing witness, listed some possible elements of a rough ride during  : “Sudden acceleration, sudden stops, quick turns. ” It is difficult to assess the frequency of the practice, but cities including Chicago, Philadelphia and Aurora, Ill. have settled lawsuits  related to accusations of rough rides. In Baltimore, Tessa   president of the local branch of the N. A. A. C. P. and Mr. Pettit said they had both received complaints about rough rides, although they were not always substantiated in court. Those complaints have dropped off somewhat since Mr. Gray’s story took over the headlines, increasing scrutiny of the police and raising calls for working cameras inside police wagons. Charles J. Key, a retired Baltimore police lieutenant, said that he “never saw a single instance” of a rough ride in 26 years of his career there, beginning in 1970. But in 1997, a black man named Jeffery Alston was paralyzed during a ride in a Baltimore police van. In 2004, he received a $6 million settlement from the city. In 2005, another black man, Dondi Johnson Sr. died after suffering a spinal fracture during a police ride. A jury awarded his family more than $7 million, but the award was later reduced to $219, 000. Mr. Key testified as an expert witness in both cases. Officer Goodson faces seven charges, including   “depraved heart” murder  —   meaning murder born of willful disregard for human life  —   and three counts of manslaughter. Prosecutors allege that Officer Goodson failed to buckle Mr. Gray’s seatbelt or call for medical attention, which they say could have saved his life to them, those omissions were tantamount to a crime. And they allege Officer Goodson rolled through a stop sign and took a sharp right turn so fast that the van could not stay in its lane. “He was injured because he got a rough ride,” Michael Schatzow, a prosecutor, said during opening statements, adding, “There was no good reason for the officer to repeatedly fail to seatbelt Mr. Gray except to bounce him around. ” Legal experts said it could be difficult for the prosecution to secure a murder conviction against Officer Goodson without proving that a rough ride had occurred. “The rough ride is important,” said David Jaros, an associate professor of law at the University of Baltimore, “because it tells us something about the driver’s mental state and his willingness to risk human life. ” The state has presented evidence of Mr. Gray’s devastating injuries. And with a detective, Michael Boyd, on the stand, prosecutors presented a series of surveillance videos showing the van making its way through Baltimore. But on Tuesday, during   Matthew Fraling, one of Officer Goodson’s lawyers, asked Detective Boyd if he had observed the van at any point “make an abrupt start, an abrupt stop, or an abrupt turn. ” “No, sir,” Detective Boyd answered. On Wednesday, Mr. Franklin, the prosecution witness, testified that leg shackles made it hard for passengers to brace themselves in a van, and that, without a seatbelt, “your ability to limit yourself from being a projectile in that van is very limited. ” “It’s extremely important,” Mr. Franklin added, “that that ride be as smooth as possible to prevent the person in the back from being tossed to and fro. ” Mr. Gray’s legs were shackled during most of the ride and he was not wearing a seatbelt, but prosecutors did not draw direct connections between those facts and Mr. Franklin’s testimony  —   a point that Officer Goodson’s lawyers sought to emphasize. “Is it not your contention today that Officer Goodson in any way engaged in a rough ride?” Mr. Fraling said. Mr. Franklin paused. “I can’t say. ” On Wednesday, Officer Goodson’s lawyers moved to have the charges dismissed. While it is a common move by defendants, the lawyers focused on the rough ride during their oral arguments on Thursday. “There was no evidence introduced by the state to support a theory that Officer Goodson gave Mr. Gray a rough ride,” said Andrew Graham, another lawyer for the officer, calling it a “centerpiece” of the state’s argument. When the judge, Barry G. Williams, asked Mr. Schatzow to elaborate on how the prosecution had supported its case, including the murder charge, the prosecutor turned not to the rough ride, but to what they said was Officer Goodson’s failure to buckle Mr. Gray’s seatbelt on five different occasions, suggesting a possible pivot in the state’s strategy. “Five times is enough to demonstrate depraved heart,” Mr. Schatzow said. Later, Judge Williams asked Mr. Schatzow if the state was acknowledging that it had not presented evidence of a rough ride. “The No. 1 piece of evidence is the fact that the man suffered a broken neck, and it killed him,” said Mr. Schatzow, adding that that injury, combined with the “limited” video evidence and that Mr. Gray was shackled, handcuffed and not wearing a seatbelt, made it possible to infer that a rough ride had occurred. But, he added, a rough ride was not a necessary element of the charges. “There are lots of ways to cause people to move about the compartment” in the van, he said. Judge Williams allowed the case to continue with all the charges intact, but said it was a “closer call” to let the murder charge move forward. Mr. Jaros, the law professor, said that the rough ride theory had “flatlined,” but “that doesn’t mean that they don’t have a case at least for manslaughter based on his failure to buckle and then his refusal to get medical attention. ” “There’s no question,’’ Mr. Jaros said, that “you’ve got really a horrific level of callousness to the experience of the people who are being shuttled through the system. ” “The problem is, that doesn’t necessarily satisfy a criminal charge. ”