A mishandled handoff between foremen may have played a role in an Amtrak crash last April in which two workers were killed when a train slammed into construction equipment that was on the tracks near Chester, Pa. according to documents released on Thursday. The documents, part of a continuing investigation by the National Transportation Safety Board, also revealed the train’s operator tested positive for marijuana, and show a supervisor’s distress upon hearing that the track had been cleared for use. “Oh my gosh you’ve got to be kidding me,” John Yaeger, an Amtrak day shift foreman whose shift had just begun, told a dispatcher, according to a transcript of radio communications from that morning. “Oh man. The backhoe got plowed. I can’t believe it. ” The documents released on Thursday do not draw conclusions about what caused the crash, though possible factors are cited. The crash occurred around 7:50 a. m. on April 3, when the train struck a backhoe that was being used during a multiday maintenance operation on a neighboring track, according to the documents. During an interview with investigators, Mr. Yaeger suggested there had been confusion in the handoff from a night foreman about whether the track had been cleared for traffic. The backhoe operator, Joseph Carter Jr. 61, and his supervisor, Peter Adamovich, 59, died.   people were taken to hospitals. The preliminary N. T. S. B. documents consist of hundreds of pages of interviews, transcripts and reports, and include the revelation that the train’s operator, Alexander Hunter, tested positive for marijuana that day. Efforts to reach Mr. Hunter on Thursday evening were not immediately successful. The train was traveling south at 106 miles per hour  —   within the authorized limit of 110 m. p. h.  —   when Mr. Hunter applied the emergency brakes after “seeing something” on Main Track 3, according to the documents. He was able to slow the train to only 88 m. p. h. before striking the backhoe. “The collision obliterated the backhoe, sending pieces of the equipment throughout the area and into the west side of the first passenger coach,” according to an analysis report. Amtrak estimated the damage at $2. 5 million.